CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE PENIS. 1131 CHAPTER LXXIII. DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. DISEASES OF THE PENIS. Complete arrest of the Development of the Male Sexual Organs must.be of very rare occuiTence. I haA'e seen only one instance of it. This was the case of a man setat. 22, in whom the penis and scrotum were perfectly formed, but not larger than the organs of an infant a few months old. No distinct testes could be felt, but there was some thickened structure in the scrotum which felt like an unravelled testis. The prepuce was long. There was some hair, but very little, on the pubes. This person had sexual desires, and, in fact, had engaged himself to be married when his condition led to a surgical examination. He told me that he had erections, when the organ became about an inch or an inch and a half long, and that there was occasional emission of a glairy fluid. He was fair, fresh-colom*ed, round-faced, fat, and had smooth rounded limbs, more like those of a stout girl than of a yomig' man. His voice was weak and feminine in tone. He led a sedentary indoors life, but said that he was strong and capable of ordinary j)hysical exertion. Congenital Malfor^iations.—Adhesion of Penis to Scrotum. I have once, and once only, met with a very curious malformation of the genital organs, the penis being tied down by its under surface to the scrotum, so as to lie in a deep sulcus between the testes. In these cases the raphe of the scrotum appeared to be continued in a narrow rather firm band upwards to the under surface of the penis, so that this organ Avas always bent or boAved doAvn- Avards. The patient, a man of 80, passed his urine doAviiAvards, apparently from the under surface of the scrotum ; during erection the penis curved up in a semicircular form, the convexity upAvards, the gians being tightly tied doAvn to the scrotum by the narroAV tense band continued up from the raph^. In fact, the condition of this organ Avas very like that Avhich is met with in the tongue when “ tongue-tied.” This malformation Avas remedied by cutting- through the fnenum Avhich tied the penis doAvn, and thus liberating the organ. Hypospadias consists in a cleft condition of the under surface of the penis. Up to the tenth Aveek of iutrn-uterine litc the external organs of gene- ration are alike in the male and female. At this time the urogenital aperture forms a narrow slit Avider behind than before, at the anterior extremity of Avhich is a small eminence representing the rudimentary penis or clitoris. In the female the urogenital aperture remains unclosed and the external folds of integument forming its lateral boundaries enlarge, forming the labia majora Avhich contain the vascular bulbs corresponding to the corpus spongiosum of the male. These remain separate and distinct, but a small isolated portion