TETA NUS—TREA TMENT. 37 I strychnia—may be supposed to be generated in certain circumstances, whether due to some individual predisposition, or to some peculiar fermentative process in the discharges of the wound or at the seat of injury. We have the analogy of hydi’ophobia in support of the idea that, in certain circumstances, such an agent may be generated in the system, rendering the fluids—blood and saliva —poisonous to others, and capable of developing a convulsive disease in the animal aftected. We have, however, no evidence as yet that the blood or any one of the secretions of a tetanic patient is capable, Avhen inoculated, of pro- ducing a similar disease in a healthy animal. There is one objection to this theory which appears to me too serious to be overlooked : viz,, that tetanus has been arrested, if not cured, by the division of the principal nervous trunk leading from the seat of injury, as the posterior tibial nerve in cases of tetanus arising from wound of the sole of the foot. This fact appears to me to point rather to a primary nervous lesion than to blood-poisoning as the exciting cause of the tetanic convulsions. Treatment,—The treatment of tetanus is of a local and of a constitutional I character. The Local Treatment has for its object the removal of the ' irritation that has induced the tetanic condition. It is true that, when once tetanic excitement has been set up in the cord, it has a tendency to continue, and to be incapable of removal by the mere abstraction or cessation of the local in’itation, which gave rise to it in the first instance. It is, however, only reasonable to suppose, that other treatment will succeed best if local irritation be removed ; and, indeed, so long as this continues to keep up the centric ! ner\'Ous disturbance, no general means can be expected to succeed ; as they will have not only to combat already existing disease, but also to overcome the continuous excitement maintained by the local disturbance. Hence it is of importance to bring the wound into as healthy a state as possible, and to see that it is clean, free from foreign bodies, and not inflamed. In order effectually to remove all local disturbance, recourse has been had to amputation ; but though this may have succeeded in checking some of the more chronic forms of the disease, yet other and milder local means have sufliced equally well, and in the majority of cases it has had no effect, and hence so severe an operation can scarcely be recommended for adoption. The division of the trunk of the injured nerve, at some distance above the wound, if there be one that has been punctured or lacerated, has occasionally proved successful. Thus, in a case of tetanus following injury of the supraorbital nerve, Larrey cut this across, and the patient recovered. In a midshipman, in whom tetanus came on the day after the sole of the foot had been wounded by treading on a rusty nail, jMuiTay divided the posterior tibial nerve, and the patient got well. In those cases in which no special nerve appears to have been injured, Liston’s recom- mendation of making a /\-shaped incision down to the bone, and above the part, so as to insulate it completely, may be advantageously followed. After the nerve has been divided, or the part properly insulated, some solution of atropine may be carefully applied to it, so as still further to lessen local irritation. Instead of dividing the nerve leading from the source of irritation, it has been suggested that the operation of stretching should be performed. This has been done in a considerable number of cases, and as with every other of the scores of remedies, local and constitutional that have been recoimnendcd for tetanus, recoveries have taken place after its employment. On the other hand, in acute cases it has proved as impotent as the rest.