LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 353 2. "When fibrous ankylosis has taken place in a faulty position—if, for in- - stance, the knee be bent, or the elbow straig'ht—the first thing to be done is to place the limb in such a position that it will be useful. This may most readily be done by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform, and ■ then forcibly flexing or extending the limb as the case may require, when with loud snaps and cracks it will usually come into proper position. Should any of the tendons or bands of fascia near the joint appear to be particularly tense, they may be divided subcutaneously. Either some days before the extension ris attempted, or else, if it have been carried as far as the rigid state of the tendons will permit, tenotomy may then be practised, and, an interval of a few ■days having been allowed to elapse, extension may be completed. The muscular contraction will however, in many cases, yield to gradual extension by means of screw-splints or weights, and thus render tenotomy unnecessary. The in- flammation that follows this forcible extension or flexion of the limb, is ■usually but very trivial; an evaporating lotion and rest will speedily subdue it. Indeed, it is surprising what an amount of violence may be inflicted on an ankylosed joint without any bad consequences ensuing. After the limb has K)een restored to its proper position, passive motion and frictions may tend to i ncrease its mobility. 3. When osseous ankylosis has taken place, and the position of the limb is a i^ood one, it will generally be wiser for the Sui’geon not to interfere ; except in he case of the elbow-joint, Avhich, in these circumstances, may be excised with idvantage, so as to substitute a movable for an immovable articulation. If he position be faulty, the osseous union may be sawn, drilled, or chiselled, and nroken through subcutaneously; or a Avedge-shaped piece of the bones may be aken out, and the position of the limb thus rectified. 4. Amputation may be required in cases of faulty ankylosis with so much i trophy of the limb as to render it useless, or in cases in which there is ecrosed or carious bone co-existing Avith ankylosis and rigid atrophy of the inscles of the limb. LOOSE CABTILAGES IN JOINTS. It sometimes happens that the synoAual membrane of a joint assumes a f7arty Condition, as the result of chroni-c disease of the articulation, ]3pecially in rheumatoid arthritis. This warty state of the membrane arises •om hypertrophy of the fringes, chiefly in the neighbourhood of the margin f the cartilages. These may become pedunculated, and pendent into its iterior. For this condition, Avhich gives rise to occasional uneasiness and uffiness about the joint, with a crackling or creaking sensation when it is lOved, but little can be done beyond the application of discutient plasters and •le use of elastic bandages. Loose Cartilages, as they arc termed, may be of three kinds. 1. The •»-called melon seed bodies. These are usually immerons, sometimes fifty or tore in number, Avhite or brownish in colour, and closely resemble the seeds K 'a melon in form. Tliey arc composed most commonly of dense fibroid I 'ssoe, and are belieAxd to be duo, in many cases at least, to the pedunculated, I ■ arty, or villous growths just described as being formed from hypertrophy of I 10 synovial fringes, becoming broken loose from their attachments by the ■ ovements of the joint. In other cases it is possible they may be formed n ^OL. II. . .