EJCEPIIALOID, COLLOID, AND DUCT-CANCER. 733 r, j k, » i i i k Surgeon to mistake the growth for a cystic formation or an abscess ; with which it is especially apt to be coiitouudecl in those cases (rare, it is tine) in which the skin is inflamed and cedematons. The ba-east now ra])idly assumes a very prominent and conical form ; the skin covering it at its most projecting part becomes thinned and reddened, and at last gives way, leaving a large circular ulcer, from which a fungous mass of greyish or reddish-brown colour speedily sprouts up, with a good deal of discharge of a foul, bloody, and offensive chai-acter. From this, disintegrated masses arc occasionally detached by slomrhiufr- Implication of the glandular structures in the vicinity of the tumour, followed by constitutional cachexy, occims in this as in scirrhus of the breast, but somewhat earlier. The progi’ess of the disease is always extremely rapid, especially in patients below middle life and otherwise health3^ Colloid of " the breast is of v^ery rare occurrence. Most commonly only a part of the tumour has undergone degeneration, the remainder presenting the ordinary appearances of soft or hard glandular cancer. I have during the last few years removed two very typical specimens of this form of cancer. In both cases the patients were past middle life. The peculiar feature in each case was that though the tumour had implicated the skin and formed a prominence about an inch and a half in diameter and projecting nearly an inch above the surface, no deep ulceration had taken place, nor were the glands affected. A section of the breast showed, in the greater part of the tumour a coarse alveolar structure, the alveoli being distended with colloid matter. The growing margin of the tumour- presented the ordinary appearance of a rather soft scirrhous cancer, and between this and the colloid part every intermediate gradation was recognizable. The nature of the growths was confii-med by microscopic examination. Duct-Cancer. Villous Cancer.—Under these names has been described a rare form of tumour which infiltrates surrounding parts, infects the glands, and generalizes like an ordinary cancer. Its structure has been very fully described by Cornil and Ranvier. To the naked eye it may resemble encepha- . loid cancer, and its section yields an abundant milky juice, but it differs from ordinary cancer in presenting numerous small cysts, some only just visible • to the naked eye, and others an eighth of an inch, or even more in diameter. In some specimens these cysts are filled with blood. Microscopic examination • shows it to be composed of a well-formed fibrous stroma, containing spaces lined with an epithelium tending to assume a columnar form. Delicate viUous processes covered with epithelium project from this stroma into the spaces. These villi contain loops of delicate capillary v’-essels which yield the blood so often found filling the spaces. According to Cornil and Ranvier the greater part of the small cysts can be clearly recognized as dilated galactopherous ducts, and they are of ojiinion that these tumours are malignant growths • springing from these structures. As before pointed out, villous growths may : form in simple glandular cysts, and these may bear the same relation to vdllous cancer that the simple papillary polypus of the rectum does to columnar epithelioma. When these tumours affect the lymphatic glands the secondary growths present the same structure as the primary. Causes of Cancer of the Breast. — These are usually extremely oVjscure. Sex is certainly the circumstance that has the most marked influence on the occurrence of mammary cancer, the disease being, as is well known, almost