f y. li j STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA—ORERATION. 821 !: propria ; and wlien they are found, it is usually o^Yin" to the Surgeon not I; having exposed the neck of the sac sufficiently before passing his nail or director ) under the stricture. It is owing to the incision being confined to the con- i' striction occasioned by the superficial crural arch only, not including, as it ; ought to do, the subjacent condensed fiiscia propria ; a point of very great I practical importance. Sometimes this condensed and constricting portion of , the fascia propria is so closely incorporated with the neck of the sac, that it I cannot be divided without opening the latter. The operation performed in !, this way, without opening the sac, is certainly a veiy simple procedure ; and I adds little if anything—nothing more, in fact, than a simple incision through i; superficial structures—to the danger of the patient. j If it be thought desirable to open the sac, or if it be necessary to do so in consequence of its incorporation with the fascia propria, the operation may |)e perfonned by a similar incision to that above described, slightly extended u length, but if the tumour be of considerable size some Surgeons prefer to ixpose it more freely by an “1-shaped incision, the vertical limb of which )asses along the inner side of the sac and horizontal limb parallel to Poupart’s igament and immediately below it. In whichever way the first incision be nade the dissection must next be carried through the superficial fascia, and he cribriform fascia, when the fascia propria (crural sheath and septum :rurale fused together) will be exposed ; in some cases, especially if the hernia )e a large one, this is thin, and requires to be carefully slit up on a director, [n many instances, however, it is so dense, laminated, and changed in struc- :ure, as scarcely to be recognized for what it is. It not unfrequently happens ;hat, after the superficial fascia has been divided, an oval, smooth, and firm 3ody is exposed, which at first looks like the hernial sac, or a lump of )mentum ; this is in reality the fascia propria, thickened by the long- joutinued pressure of the truss, and congested perhaps by the attempts at ■eduction ; and in the midst of it, the sac will at last be found, after the lissection has been carried through several layers of this tissue. Cysts con- ,aining bloody seriun may occasionally be found in it, and then the difficulty in :he recognition of the structures is gi’eatly increased. Though the mobility >f this mass, the facility of tracing its neck, and the roundness of its general outline, often cause it to be mistaken for sac or omentum, it may be dis- tinguished from the first by the absence of the characteristic vessels upon ts surface, and from the second by its more rounded, solid feel, and uniform ippearance. When the sac has been reached, it must be very carefully opened, :here being usually vei’y little if any fluid between it and its contents ; the inger-nail must then be passed under the shai’p edge of the stricture, which should be divided in a direction upwards and inwards. The reason why this ine of incision is universally chosen by Surgeons in this country at the present lay, is, that it is the only direction in wliich the stricture can be divided vithout risk of inflicting serious in jui-y upon neighbouring parts. If the section 3e made outwards, the femoral vein will be in danger ; if upwards and out- vards, the epigastric artery ; if directly upwards, the spermatic cord : hence •he (mly direction is either inwards, or upwards and inwards. If the cut be nade inward.s, the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament alone Avill be divided, wid the crural arch not sufficiently liberated. But if the division be made ipwards and inwards, the tension of the whole of the arch lessened ; the only danger that can occur from the division of the stricture in this direction is