SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 192 by intermittent di«-ital compression, d’hc coiiijn-ession was kept np for periods of a minute or two with frecjnent intervals ; pressure continued for more than one minute caused fainting-. It was cured in four days. A^anzetti and Hcarra- mnzza have published anothei- case, in which intermittent digital compression was kept up for five minutes at a time. The case was completely cui-ed at tlie end of compression during seven hours and twenty minutes, spread over eighteen days. Rivington has collected 16 cases, including those just mentioned, in which digital compression has been adopted. Of these, o were idiopathic and 11 traumatic. Two idiopathic and one traumatic were cured, in the rest no benefit resulted from the treatment. Instrumental compression has been tried in four cases without result. Galvano-puncture has been tried twice, once it failed and once it was fatal. Coagulating injections have been used four times. In all the disease was traumatic. The substance used was perchloride of iron in three cases, two of which were cured and one derived no benefit. In the fourth case a solution of lactate of iron was injected and the patient was cured. In spite of this success the injection of coagulating fluids into a dilated vein in which it is impossible temporarily to arrest the flow of blood, can hardly be regarded as a safe proceeding. AYhen medical treatment and compression have failed in producing a decided impression, the only course left for the successful treatment of the disease is the application of a ligature to the common carotid of the side affected. This operation has been highly successful. Rivington has collected 44 cases in which it has been performed, IS idiopathic and 26 traumatic. Of the idiopathic cases 3 died and 15 recovered ; of these 15, 12 were cured, in 8 vision was restored, in 3 it was not regained, and in one the effect in this respect is not mentioned. The remaining 3 cases were benefited by the operation. Of the 26 traumatic cases, 3 died and 23 recovered. Of the 23, 14 Avere cured, 1 by subsequent injection. Vision was not regained in 4. In 5 the operation failed, 2 of these were subsequently cured by ligature of the opposite artery. Four were partially cined and one relapsed after apparent cure. In a very interesting case which I saw in Velpeau’s wards in 1839, both orbits were affected ; and, as pressure on the right carotid arrested the pulsa- tion and bruit in both, that artery was tied. But though the disease was cured in the left orbit by this operation, and temporarily arrested in the right, it reappeared in the latter situation, and was eA^entually cured here by the ligature of the left carotid. ANEURISM OP THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Aneurisms of the Subclavian occur in order of frequency between those of the carotid and of the brachio-cephalic arteries. They are most frequently met with on the right side, in the proportion of about three to one ; and this Avould appear to be in a great measure dependent on their being occasioned by direct violence, or by repeated or prolonged exertion of the arm ; thus they commonly occur from falls, blows upon the shoulder, or excessive fatigue of this extremity. From the fact of the aneurisms arising fi-om external violence, we should expect to meet with them most frequently in males, and this we do in a remarkable manner. Of 120 cases collected by Poland, only 11 occurred in females, and in 4 of those instances the disease resulted from injury ; in 2 cases, both arteries were affected. The disease may be seated in any part of ) i I a ill 8 i J oi IJ I(] T, a ’.i