TREATMENT OF ACUTE OBSTRUCTION. 839 If the stricture be seated low down in the sigmoid flexure or at the upper part of the rectum, it may be recognized in some cases by a careful examina- tion of the bowel with bougies. Another method of examination often employed is the administration of the largest possible enema, witli the view of ascertaining whether the obstruction is low down in the great gut. This is very fallacious, as the abdominal dis- tension i^ often so great that even when the Avhole colon is free the patient cannot bear the injection of more than a few ounces of fluid. 9. The Quantity of Urine.—It is frequently stated that in obstruction high up the* quantity of urine secreted is diminished, owing to the lessened extent of intestinal surface capable of absorbing liquids. That scanty urine is com- monly met with in these cases is undoubted, but it is probably due to the fact that the patient vomits all the liquid he takes. By attention to the foregoing points, there may be no gveat difficulty in coming to an accurate opinion as to whether the obstruction is in the large or small intestine. It may also be borne in mind that with the exception of twists of the colon and acute intussusception, all acute obstructions are seated in the small intestine, while the great majority of chronic are in the large. The earlier occurrence of feculent vomiting when the obstruction is in the small intestine, the greater tympanitic distension and bulging in the course of the emeum and colon when it is seated in the large intestine, and the result of careful exploration of the rectum, will most commonly enable the Surgeon to decide tliis question with sufficient precision to guide him in the choice of an operation. Yet cases do occm in which, though the obstruction be seated in the large intestine, the symptoms are acute and evidently not dependent on chronic obstructive disease, vomiting is of early occurrence, the distension of the abdomen slight, and exploration by the rectum yields no result ; and it is in cases of this description, presenting a train of symptoms of mixed and uncertain character, that the'diagnosis of the precise seat of the obstruc- tion cannot be made with sufficient precision to justify operation. The most important point to determine in reference to the operative treat- ment of intestinal obstructions, is whether the seat of occlusion is so situated that relief can be given by “ Amussat’s operation,” in w'hich the colon is opened fehind, and not through, the perilJoneum. This can be done whenever the obstruction is below the lower end of the descending colon, by the ordinary operation on the left side, and in those rare cases in which it is seated in the transverse or ascending colon, by the same] operation on the right side. If the obstruction is above this, it will be necessary to do Gastrotomy, or as it is more correctly termed Laparotomy, an operation by which the peritoneal cavity is opened, and the peril to the patient thus greatly increased. In all doubtful cases it is better not to rush hastily to a conclusion. The I patient should be carefully examined, all the points mentioned in the preceding 1 pages being carefully considered. A list of all the causes of obstruction ! should then be made, and each considered in order. By thus eliminating the various causes one by one, a correct opinion will in most cases be arrived at. Tr?:atment.—Treatment of Acute Obstruction.—This must necessarily be in a great measure determined by the diagnosis that is made as to its cause. The treatment of intussusception presents so many special points, that it will be better to consider it separately. If the general obscurity of the symptoms in these cases renders an exact diagnosis in the early stages almost