153 OF THE THORACIC AORTA. SPECIAL ANEURISMS. CHAPTER XLIY. ANEUmSJirS OF THE THORAX, HEAD AND NECK, AND UPPER EXTREMITY. ANEUEISM OP THE THOEACIC AOETA. Symptoms.—The symptoms of intrathoracic Aortic Aneurism are of two kinds : auscultatory and rationat. The Auscultatory Signs vary greatly in distinctness, and may even be wanting. In some cases, more especially in fusiform aneurisms, they are almost from the first of a very marked and obvious character; in others, especially in sacculated aneurisms, they may be absent throughout, the aneurism terminating fatally vuthout its existence having been determined by the stethoscope. They consist in murmurs of various kinds and degrees of intensity—bellows, rasping, or whizzing; in the second sound of the heart Ijeing audible over a greater space than normal. At the same time there may be dulness on percussion. These various signs may often be heard more distinctly upon or to the left side of the spine, than at the anterior part of the chest; Avhen occurring anteriorly, they are chiefly met with on the right side. The value of the auscultatory signs in the diagnosis of aneurism within the chest is not perhaps so great as in many other thoracic diseases, in the early stages of the aifection, and in those cases in which the aneurism continues small and sacculated throughout, or is so deeply seated as not to approach the parietes of the chest. This need not be a matter of surprise, when we reflect how deeply the ascending portion of the aorta and the ai'ch are situated ; hoAV they are covered in front by the lungs and loose areolar tissue, through which sound is with difficulty transmitted ; and how they are covered in behind by the spine and its muscles. When, in addition to this, it is borne in mind that aneurisms of the arch often prove fatal by bursting into contiguous cavities and canals before they have attained a size greater than that of a walnut or a pigeon’s egg, and thus are incapable of furnishing a murmur of any very marked kind, it can be easily understood that the value of auscultation'is but small in many cases of thoracic aneurism. The Rational Signs of intrathoracic aortic aneurism are of three kinds :— Pressure-Effects; Jhilsation ; and Tumour. Pressure-Effects may l)c exercised on any of the contiguous structures ; and a glance at the anatomical relations of the thoracic aorta, more particularly the arch, will enable the Surgeon to judge of their com]ilexity and importance. They will necessarily vary according to the size of the aneurism and the ]iortion of the af»rta affected by it; more according to the latter than to the former