MALIGXANT TUMOURS OF THE TONSIL. 657 of tlie blade of which should be wrapped round with a piece of plaster, to prevent its wouudiiio- the tongue. In e.xcising the tonsil in this way, care must be taken to cut from below upwards and inwards towards the mesial line, and on no account to turn the edge of the knife outwards, lest the internal carotid artery be endangered. The hmmorrhage that follows this operation is usually very trifling; but it may be sufticiently abundant to endanger the patient’s life. In such cases, ice and gallic acid will usually arrest the bleeding. In one case, I found a gargle of spirits of turpentine suspended in mucilage effec- tual after all other means had failed. It has been stated by some that excision of the tonsil is liable to be followed by want of development of the testes. This I have never observed. But it is possible that enlargement of the tonsils to such an extent as to impede • respiration, and consequently to interfere with nutrition, may lessen the due •, development of the generative or any other organs of the body. Malignant Tumours of the Tonsil are occasionally met with, but are not common. The tonsil readily becomes implicated in epithelioma springing rffom the pillars of the fauces or the root of the tongue, but is very rarely the 1 primary seat of the disease. Most of the primary tumours of the tonsil have i. been described as scirrhous or encephaloid, but it is doubtful whether true 'Scirrhus ever commences in this situation. The soft “ encephaloid ” tumours ..appear to have been in most cases lymphomata or lympho-sarcomata. In ^malignant growths in this region the disease speedily extends to the pillars of the fauces, the pharynx, and onwards to the floor of the mouth, the glands under the angle become implicated, extensive infiltration of a brawny character • takes place in and around them, the swallowing becomes extremely painful .and difficult, respiration is impeded, the pharynx and palate become congested i-and loaded with viscid mucus, and the patient eventually dies in a distressing manner, partly ft'om starvation, partly from constitutional contamination. Surgery as a rule offers the means only of relief in these sad cases. In one case of a soft malignant tumour of the tonsil, which was under my care, [ obtained some temporary advantage by removing portions of the soft pro- tecting and very vascular gi'owth by means of the ecraseur. Should the i-umour be so situated that there seems a possibility of removing it, it may be wrought more fully within reach by dividing the cheek, as in the buccal )peration for removal of the tongue. Foulis recommends an incision from he angle of the mouth to the angle of the jaw, division of the bone with a law, and wide separation of the two parts by which the tonsil is very com- pletely exposed. Operations in this region are best earned out with Paquelin’s 'lot knife. The results of attempts of this kind, although not very encouraging, ?ave l>een sufficient to show that it is possible to remove the tonsil with the •illars of the fauces and the neighbouring parts of the tongue and soft palate without fatal consequences ensuing. It is probable therefore that if performed nfficiently early much benefit might follow operations in well-selected cases. DISEASES OP THE PHARYNX. Syphilitic Affections of the Pharynx have been already described Vol. I,, p. 1112). The consequences of extensive syphilitic ulceration may owever Ixj alluded to here, as they occasionally call for surgical interference. ■ 8 the ulcers heal the pharynx may contract so that deglutition becomes VOL. II. U u