t62 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Enlargement of the Superficial Veins of tlie neck and right upper extremity is of frequent occurrence, the external jugular being the vessel that is usually first evidently dilated ; at a more advanced period the superficial sub- cutaneous veins of the upper part of the right side of the chest often become tortuous and form a dense plexus in this situation, while many anastomose with the cephalic and thoracic veins above, and the superficial epigasti'ic below. As the pressure increases, oedema commences in the right eyelids and hand, and may speedily extend to the whole of the head, face, and arm, which become hard and brawny in consequence of serous infiltration. In one instance I have seen the left arm become suddenly oedematous, the left innominate vein being pressed upon. In these cases the eyes become staring and prominent, and the lips, nose, and features livid and turgid with blood, as Avell as oedematous, so as to greatly alter the expression of the countenance. Fain of a dull aching character is experienced in the situation of the tumour, from the compression of the neighbouring structures. But in the later stages of the disease the patient often experiences sharp shooting pains, apparently of a rheumatic or neuralgic character, in the arm and the side of the head and face, arising from pressure upon, and irritation of, nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses. Taking the course of the ascending and de- scending filaments of the cervical plexus, the pain shoots up the side of the head and neck, and over the shoulder and upper part of the chest; or, from pressure upon the brachial plexus, it radiates down the hand and arm, being usually especially severe about the elbow and fingers. The muscular power of the right arm also commonly becomes impaired. Persistent dilatation of the vessels, with sweating of one side of the face, occasionally occui’S from pressure on the sympathetic. Dyspnoea is of very common occur-1 rence, and of very varying degrees of intensity, from slight difiiculty in, breathing up to fatal asphyxia. It| may proceed either from compression of the recurrent nerve, or from pressure) on the trachea. When it depends on, the former condition, the voice is hoarse, husky, or whispering; and there is a dry, croupy, and paroxysmal cough, usually accompanied by expec toration of thin fr'othy mucus. In| these cases, after death, the right re-l current nerve will be found to bej stretched out and greatly elongated by^ the pressure of the tumour (Fig. 466).i: Compression of the trachea, which becomes flattened and curved over to the»' left side by the protrusion of the tumour, is a common cause of d}spnoca„, and is not unfrequently associated with pressure on the recuiicnt nei\e. The laryngeal dyspnoea in these cases is analogous to that v Inch occui’S inii aortic aneurisms (p. 155) ; the only difference being, that in one case it is duei' to pressure upon and paralysis of the muscles supplied by the right; in the*: Fig. 466.—Aneurism of the Innominate Artery compressing and stretching tlie Recurrent La- ryngeal Nerve, and pushing the Trachea to the Left Side. (Back View.)