CAUSES AND SOURCES OF ILEiMATUlilA. 1051 5 a sensation of weight in the region of the bladder, with fre(|ueiit desire to .iss urine ; when on calculus, the special symptoms of the existence of stone ; ill be present. When it occurs from a villous tumour at the neck of the ;iadder, the quantity of blood lost is usually very great and the hmmor- luige pei*sistent. If it arise from malignant disease, the discharge of pus, id of the dehris of the ulcerating tumour, may afford evidence of the uirce of the hiemorrhage. Blood from the bladder usually is most Hindant towards the end of micturition, especially in cases of tumour. The •st urine that passes, or that is drawn off by a catheter, being pale and less oody than the last, and at the termination nothing but blood may flow. In one and cystitis it is more often uniformly mixed with the urine. Irregular .Hasses of clot are often passed when the hemorrhage has been very abundant. 3. Haemorrhage from the Prostate.—If the prostate be the source of emorrhage, the discharge may be occasioned by congestion of that organ, or ■ y its ulceration, simple or malignant. In these cases, exploration by the 3ctum and urethra will indicate the true cause of the bleeding. The blood i^ually finds its way back into the bladder rather than towards the penile vethra, and thus may aj^pear towards the end of micturition, or be uniformly i|m’xed with the urine, as in hmmorrhage from the bladder. 4. Haemorrhage from the Urethra.—The bleeding may arise from mple congestion of the mucous membrane, from inflammatory irritation of ., or may follow rupture of the walls of the canal, consequent on injury or on le introduction of instruments. Blood fr-om the urethi’a usually flows independently of micturition, as in ecent injmies, or passes with the first few drops of urine. It may, however, ncasionally come with the last drops expelled. This is by no means micommon •1 gonoiThcca, or in cases of gleet dependent upon a granular condition of the ||iiucous membrane of the bulbous portion of the urethra. It seems, then, to be 'ue to the contraction of the ejaculator urinm squeezing a drop or two of blood rom the inflamed spot. Treatment.—The treatment of hmmaturia must necessarily have reference » its cause. “NWien it depends on a morbid constitutional state, as scurvy or lalarial poisoning, the treatment of the disease, of which the hmmaturia is nerely a symptom or an effect, must be conducted on ordinary medical prin- : iples. If it arise from inflammatory congestion of the kidneys, bladder, or •rostate, cupping, or the application of leeches over the affected part, demul- vents, and saline drinks, will be most efficacious; if fr’om passive congestion, aline purgatives, followed by the use of astringents, will speedily induce a tessation of the hsemoiThage. The astringent that exercises the most marked nfluence in ainesting haematuria, when that condition is purely passive, is un- doubtedly gallic acid. This may be given in flve or ten grain doses, fr’equently epeated, in infusion of buchu or uva ursi. Sometimes the bladder becomes distended by a large soft coagulum, filling ap its interior, and causing it to reach to the umbilicus, forming a rounded olid tumour, like a gravid uterus. In such circumstances, the largest catheter lhat cjin be introduced must be passed, and the syringe of an aspirator adapted o it. By this means the blood, even when coagulated into a single large clot I illing the whole bladder, may be easily removed, and thus a complication for- nerly most troublesome to the Surgeon and agonizing to the patient is over- ;onie without the slightest difficulty. The evacuator used in lithotrity would