rARArillMOSL^ AND ITS TREATMENT. I f37 ■I ^ i: 'i f 1 I f I I introducing the point of u pair of scissors at the preputial orifice ; and then, trimming otf the angles of the fiaps, he turns back the mucous mem- brane, and attaches it to the edge of the cutaneous incision by a sufficient number of fine catgut sutures. Before introducing these, he will generally find it necessary to ligature a small artery on each side of the penis, and one or two in the frmuum. The best dressing in children will be some • simple ointment, such as boracic acid ointment, or the glans may be simi^ly smeared with a little vaseline. After every act of micturition, the parts should be well sponged with boracic acid lotion or Condy’s fluid and water. In the adult, union by first intention may often be obtained by a dry di’essing of iodoform-wool thickly covered with collodion, so as to protect it from the urine. This may be left unchanged for four or five days. There is usually a good deal of swelling of the mucous membrane about the frgenum, and some solid oedema usually remains for some weeks after the operation. This gradually subsides, and a linear cicatrix remains, which causes the patient no inconvenience. In some cases I have found adhesions between the prepuce and the glans; these require to be torn or dissected through, but no inconvenience results fr’om this slight addition to the operation. If sloughing of the prepuce have occurred, allow- ing the glans to protrude, as in Fig. 954, circum- cision must be practised. The chief points to be attended to in the per- formance of this operation, and on which its after success is most dependent, are—1, That too much skin be not removed; 2, That the mucous mem- brane be slit up to the base of the glans ; 3, That too much of it be not removed ; 4, That all bleeding vessels be tied with catgut ligatures, which must be cut short; 5, That the mucous membrane be well tuiTied back, so. as to cover the gap left by the retracted skin ; 6, That all sutures be of catgut, which will be absorbed, and thus save the pain of taking them out. Farapliiiuosis.—lia.'paraphimosis the prepuce has been forcibly di’avm back behind the glans, which becomes strangled liy the pressure exercised by the j»reputial orifice, so that the pai’ts cannot be replaced in proper relation to one another. This accident principally occurs in boys, or in individuals who have naturally a tight prepuce, and Avho, on uncovering the glans, find it difficult to get this part of the organ back. This difficulty is speedily and gi’eatly in- creased by the SAvelling from congestion that is set up in the constricted glans. Treatmml.—This is sufficiently simple. The Surgeon should first try to reduce the swollen organ. He may often succeed in doing this by seizing the body of the penis Ixitween the index and middle fingers of each hand, and then endeavouring to draAV the prepuce forwards, at the same time that he com- presses the glans between the two thumbs and pushes it back (Fig. 955). Shcjuld reduction not be elfeeted in this way, the constricted and strangu- lating preputial orifice must be divided. In doing this, the Surgeon will observe that the glans is sepai-atcd from the body of the penis, by a eleep and uaiTOw sulcus, which is especially evident on the iqqwr part of the organ. This sulcus, which is overlapped on one side by the glans, and on the other VOL. ri. 1 n Fig. 954.— Sloughing of the ri’epuce, and Protru.sion ol' the Glans.