NECROSIS OF FLAT BONES. 299 that it can be reino\ ecl, it must be excised, even though not detached. When the ilium and pelvic bones are affected independently of the hip-joint, it is seldom that any operative measure can be employed with advantage : here we must leave the patient to the chance of the bone being at length so loosened as to admit of extraction. In some cases, however, if the disease be limited to a portion of the crest of the ilium, or to the tuber ischii, the dead bone may be removed ; although in these instances it not uncommonly happens that disease of a similar kind exists elsewhere about the sacrum or spine, that will eventually destroy the patient. In a case in which I removed a portion of the crista ilii for necrosis that was apparently confined to that bone, it was found, on the pjitient dying some weeks afterwards of erysipelas, that the lumbar vertebrae were also diseased. Of late years, considerable portions of the pehds have been successfully excised for necrosis, as will be more fully mentioned when I come to speak of excision of the hip-joint. The tuber ischii, when affected, may readily be extiri)ated. Necrosis of the Cranial Bones is of frequent occurrence as the result of struma or syphilis, or the two conditions conjoined. When met with in children, it is usually strumous, often occurring after measles or scarlet fever ; in adults it is usually syphilitic, though by no means invariably so, being some- times the result of blows in people of otherwise healthy constitutions. There are four situations in which necrosis of the cranial bones may occur, viz., in the vault of the skull, the frontal bone, the temporal bone, or in the sphenoid and ethmoid bones. When idiopathic necrosis affsets the vault, it is usually syphilitic ; when it occurs in the other situations, especially in the temporal bone, it is commonly strumous. Three forms of necrosis affect the cranial bones. In one case, the outer table is alone affected; this perishes, separates, and exfoliates, gTanulations spring up from the outer surface of the inner table, and a process of repair is thus established. In the second form of the disease, the whole thickness of the skull necroses, separates from the dm'a mater and surrounding healthy bone in the usual way, and may be detached in large irregularly-shaped pieces, sometimes of large size, occupying several square inches. In the third form, the necrosis is hard, dry, rough, and pitted or worm-eaten, penetrating through the diploe to the inner table, separating very slowly, and lasting an indefinite period. Results.—In necrosis of the cranial bones, there is always the special danger of extension of inflammation to the membranes of the brain, and the conse- quent occurrence of effusion within the skull, leading to convulsions, coma, and death. This danger is greatest when the petrous portion of the temporal Ixme is affected, as the dura mater is continued into some of the canals by which it is perforated. Cerebral complication is less likely to occur when the frontal iKjiie is the seat of disease, more particularly the lower part of this' bone, where, by the intervention of the frontal sinuses, the anterior wall is altogether carried away from the inner table, and from all dangerous proximity to the membranes of the brain. Sifjjis 0^ necrosis of the cranial bones are very obvious. When the vault or forehead is affected, there is tenderness, with some pufhness, and gradual elevation of the scalp into an abscess. AVhen this is opened, the necrosed bone may be felt or seen lying, bare, at the bottom of a sinus or unhealed ulcer. When the petrous portion of the temporal bone is the seat of disease, there