n HISTORY OF EXCISION OF JOINTS. 359 CHAPTER XLIX. j I K 1 J I ^ ^ j U.; ! i ic i I ■ I t ( I i I: i I 4 I m EXCISION OF JOINTS. History.—The operation of resection of the articular ends of hones dates from the very earliest periods of Snrgeiy of which we have any record. Hip- pocrates (in his Chapter on Injuries of Joints) speaks of resections of bones at the joints, whether of the foot, the hand, the leg, the ankle, the fore-arm, the wrist, as being for the most part unattended by danger, except from syncope or consecutive fever. Celsiis, in speaking of compound dislocations, says, if the bare bone project it will always be an obstacle to reduction ; that which protrudes should therefore be cut off. Paulus ^Egineta says that, if a bone project, as after a transverse fracture, we must cut it off. Thus, it will clearly be seen that it was the practice of the ancients in compound dislocations, and in compound fractures, to resect the protruding bones. But that the practice of resection in cases of disease also was not unknown to them, is evident from a passage on fistulm in the works of Paulus Algineta,' who directs that, if the fistula tenninate with a bone, and if that be not diseased, it should only be scraped; but if it be carious, the whole diseased portion should be cut out with chisels ; and, if necessary, it may have a hole bored in it with a trephine; and a little further on he says, “ the extremity of a bone near a joint, if diseased, is to be sawn off; and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the ulna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire.” Nothing can pro- bably be more explicit than this statement, in which the practice is alluded to as of frequent occurrence. But he makes exceptions in the case of the bones of the spine and pelvis, and the head of the femur, which, he says, should not be operated on for fear of the neighbouring arteries. The practice of resection thus kno'wn to and adopted, by the ancients, and mentioned by the Ai’abian writers of the middle ages, fell completely into disuse, and seems entirely to have been forgotten until the middle of the last centuiy, when occasional notices of its adoption appear in Surgical essays. It was first employed in cases of compound fractures and dislocations of joints. In military practice, the Surgeon, in two or three instances, picked out and cut away fragments of the bones forming the wrist-, elbow-, shoulder-, and ankle- joints when shattered by gun-shot. This early revival of resection involved no principle of treatment: imperfect operations being had recourse to on the field of battle simply as a matter of convenience in particular cases. The Surgeons who performed them did not recognize any new rule of practice as being involved in these chance ju’ocedures. The first resection practised for injury in which the articular ends in com- pound dislocation were fairly, delibei-ately, and successfully removed, appears U) have occurred to Cooper of Bungay, before or at latest about the middle of the last century. The precise date of this case is unknown ; but Gooch writing in 1758, says that it occurred “ mauy years ago ; ” that the ends of both tibia and fibula were sawn off in a compound luxation of the ankle ; that the limb