SACRO-ILIAG DISEASE—SYMPTOMS. 437 11 ■ feeling of want of proper support to the body ; leans forward, and uses a : stick. He puts the foot on the allected side to the ground, hut does not tread upon it so firmly as upon the other. He cannot stand on the foot . of the allected side, or twist himself suddenly round. As the disease advances, the powers of support and progression diminish, and at last the patient becomes unable to assume the erect i^osition, lying in bed usually on the sound side. 4. Alteration in the Shape of the Hip and Length of the Limb is an early and marked symptom. From the very commencement of the disease, the limb on the affected side will seem to be longer than the sound one ; the tip of the inner malleolus being usually, as the patient lies on his ' back, half an inch below the level of the same point of bone on the opposite side. But on close examination, it will be found that the measurement from the anterior superior spine to the inner malleolus gives the same result on both sides ; hence the elongation cannot be owing to any change that has taken place in the bones or in the three large joints of the lower extremity, but must be dependent on some disturbing cause situated beyond the anterior superior spine of the ilium. On more close investigation, this point of bone is found to be at a lower level, and at the same time more prominent, than its fellow on the opposite side : the displacement is thus produced, not by any obliquity of the pelvis consequent on a twist on the lumbar spine, as in hip-joint disease, but by the tilting forwards and rotation downwards of the whole side of the pelvis ; for the displacement which takes place is a double one. The swelling of the aftected articulation not only pushes forwards, but rotates downwards^ the anterior and superior portion of the ilium ; and hence the anterior superior spine is not only at a lower level, but is also more prominent on the diseased than on the sound side. The limb itseff usually lies straight, and is wasted and enfeebled. 5. Abscess occurs only at a late period of the disease. Many months, a year or more, may elapse before suppuration is fairly established, or, at all events, before the formation of pus is so abundant and so circumscribed that it can be recognized as an abscess. I have observed abscess in connection with this disease in five situations—viz., over the articulation, in the gluteal and in the lumbar regions, within the pelvis, and in connection with the rectum. The first indication of abscess is met with over the diseased articulation. The puffy swelling' which is there perceptible in the earlier stages of the affection, gradually softens, until at last fluctuation is established in it. From this point it may spread outwards into the gluteal region, nearly as far as, but not enveloping, the trochanter ; or it may take another course and stretch upwards, forming a considerable accumulation in the loin, upon and just above the crest of the ilium. These forms of sacro-iliac abscess are extra- ]idvk; the other vaneties are intrapeJvic. These latter are of three kinds, in one form the pus passes out of the sciatic notch, and under the great gluteal muscle; in the next it gravitates doAvnwards into the ischio-rectal fossa, and presents by the side of the rectum ; and in the third variety which I have observed, the abscess opens into the gut, abundant puriform discharge takes place per aiium, and, flatus from the bowel passing into the suppurating cavity, a tympanitic abscess results. 1’hoonohis.—The prognosis of this disease is always most unfavourable. I