627 CLEFTS OF HARD PALATE—URANOPLASTY. palatal mucous membranes. This incision must be carried backwards into the soft palate, from which a strip of mucous membrane must be removed, as in the operation for closure of clefts, implicating that part only. The soft structures covering the hard palate are then raised from the bones with a curved periosteal elevator, shaped someAvhat like an aneurism needle. In foct, if the proper instrument be not at hand, a strong aneurism needle will answer the purpose admirably. The periosteum should be raised with the flap as completely as possible. Langenbeck pointed out, that if this be done, not only are the flaps thicker and stronger, but they may eventually throw out bone, and thus more efliciently close the gap in the hard palate. In raising the flaps, care must be taken to avoid those points anteriorly and if possible posteriorly where the blood-vessels and nerves enter. Another point of equal importance, as pointed out by Thomas Smith, is to separate the attach- ment of the soft palate to the hard with a sharp instrument, either a pair of scissors or a knife bent at a convenient angle. If an attempt be made to tear this through vith the elevator, the parts will be so bruised that union by first intention wiU not take place even if sloughing be avoided. When these structures have been well loosened on each side, the covering of the pilate will be found to hang down as a curtain from the vault of the mouth—the two parts coming into apposition along the mesial line, or possibly over-lapping. The edges are then brought into apposition by means of wire sutures introduced as before described and without any dragging. On this point great care is necessary. In cases in which the flaps do not meet readily, one or more deep sutures of thicker wire may be inserted further from the edges, so as to relieve the strain on the finer stitches ; or, if neces- sary, the lateral incisions may be continued back some way into the soft palate. The hiemorrhage during the operation is usually rather fr-ee, but may be arrested by a few minutes’ pressure on the bleeding point with a piece of dry sponge. The patient is confined to bed for several days, and allowed an abundant, but fluid or pulpy diet. Union, if it take jDlace, will usually be found to be perfect at the end of a week. The wire sutures need not be removed for a month or six weeks. In fact, it is much safer to retain them until healing is complete, not only in the middle line but in the two lateral wounds as well, otherwise the contractions of the granulations as healing takes place may tear open the young cicatrix in the middle line. Secondaiy hjemoiThage of a somewhat serious character has been known to occur after this operation. In one case of this kind, Howard l\Iarsh success- fully arrested the bleeding by plugging the posterior palatine canal with a piece of wood. Sir William Fergusson suggested a modification of the operation, in which an incision was made on each side of the fissure, and the bone divided longi- tudinally with a chisel, the two edges being then forced into contact. .\lthough in his own hands some satisfactory results were obtained by this method, further experience has led to the abandonment of this operation as being in no way superior to that already described, and l)eing somewhat liable to be followed by necrosis of the divided bone. It was formerly advised by some Surgeons, not to undertake the closure of the hard and soft palate at the same time, but it is now generally recognized that nothing is gained by dividing the operation into two parts. Success will very much depend on the proper selection of cases. Fergusson s s 2