EXTIRPATION OF THE SPLEEN. 857 EXTIRPATION OF THE SPLEEN. B. Crcde of Dresden has collected oU cases in which this operation has been performed. In 10 the operation Avas undertaken for the enlarged spleen of lieucocytluemia, and in every case it was fatal; in 1) cases for simple hyper- trophy, and of these four recovered and fiA’e died ; in 2 for cysts, both recovering; in 2 for a movable or floating spleen, both successful, and in 1 for “the spleen lying in a peritoneal abscess,” also successful. These statistics show that excision of the spleen is not justifiable in leucocythmmia, and that in other cases one-third of the patients die. The operation presents nothing special. The tumom* is exposed by a free incision, and isolated from surrounding parts, its pedicle being secured by ligature. If adliesions exist the splenic substance is A'^ery likely to be torn, an accident Avhich is accom- panied by fearful hmmorrhage which has in several cases been the immediate cause of death. DISEASES OP THE UMBILICUS: Ulceration of the Navel is occasionally met with after the separation of the cord in new-born children. It must be treated by cleanliness and the application of some simple ointment. In adults, especially when very fat and uncleanly in their habits, eczema followed by ulceration is not uncommon in the navel. It must be treated by syringing with boracic acid lotion and the application of boracic acid ointment. Sometimes a prominent fungatiug mass of granulations may form, which requires destruction with nitrate of sih^er. Soft and hard chancres haA'^e been met with at the navel, iand a purulent discharge resulting from gonorrhoeal infection is said to have been observed. A Warty GroAvth is occasionally met with in children springing from the hollow of the umbilicus. It is best removed by ligature. Epithelioma of the Navel is a rare disease. Should it occur the tumour must be remoA'ed freely, if necessary opening the abdominal cavity and closing the aperture by sutures. Umbilical PistTilae.—Foacal fisiulcd at the umbilicus may arise from .strangulation and sloughing of an umbilical hernia. They are also occasion- ^ally congenital, resulting either from a protrusion of a diverticulum fr’om the ileum or of a portion of the small intestine into the cord and its accidental u.nclusion in the ligature at birth. In other cases they arise from perforation of the small intestine by chronic ulceration, usually tubercular, with the fonnation of a circumscribed abscess amongst the coils of the intestine, finally discharging at the navel. The treatment of these fistulm is extremely .unsatisfactory. The application of the cautery to the orifice is of little use, and plastic operations almost iiiA'ariably fail. If the disease does not give :much trouble it is better treated by the application of a pad and attention to cleanliness. I f there is a complete artificial anus after gangrenous hernia a cure must be attempted by the rneaus already described in the chapter on hernia. Urinary Fisiulm arc very rare, and result from imperfect closure of the urachus. They admit of no treatment. Biliary Fistiike also have been met with ; their mcale of origin is uncertain, and they also d(j not admit of treat- ment. Purulent Fislulcc also are described by some Avriters; these are merely