515 ClIROXIG CONTRACTIOX OF THE KNEE. most coiigeiiiiil to his feelings. This position, which is immediately as- sumed on the occurrence of acute and active inflammation in the joint, comes on more gradually in cases of subacute inflammation ; and here the symptoms of disease in the joint may be so slight that the contraction may be considered the chief ailment, and engross too exclusively the Surgeon’s attention. Chronic Contraction.—The next class of cases that we have to consider are those of a more chronic and intractable kind, lasting often for years, dependent upon structural lesions of a deep and important character in and around the joint, and requiring very active surgical interference for their cure. Those chronic forms of contracted knee appear to range themselves in three distinct varieties, being dependent on : 1, Consolidation and Contraction of the Ligamentous Structures in or around the joint; 2, Permanent Contraction of the IMuscles, Avith or without the last-named condition ; and, 3, Osseous Ankylosis. Each of these varieties will require separate consideration, as each demands a special mode of treatment for its cure. 1. Those cases of contraction of the knee that depend on Consolidation of the Lifjamentous Structures in and around the joint, resulting from former inflam- matoiy attacks, are not only the most numerous, but the most readilv amenable to treatment. AVheu the structures outside the joint, such as the capsule and liga- ments, are the parts chiefly affected, the inflammation has usually been of a rheumatic character. When the internal structures have been disorganized, and fibrous bands have formed Avithin the joint, the inflammation has generally been strumous. In these cases the knee . 11 1 .1 Fig- 034.—Chronic Contraction of Knee-joint; Head IS usually hxed at or near a right of TiWa drawn backwards. angle, and is capable of but very limited motion ; to such a degree only, in most instances, as will allow the foot to move through two or three inches. The hamstring muscles are not tense, unless the knee is extended to its utmost; and, indeed, in some cases they are flaccid, and feel soft. Not unfrequently the leg can be extended up to a certain point, Avith as much freedom as in the natural state, and then further moA'e- ment is checked by a sudden stop. If this be not dependent on the tibia coming into contact Avith an ankylosed patella, it is owing to shortening of the ligament of AVinslow, or of the anterior crucial ligament, or to the formation of adhesions Avithin the joint. In this form of contraction, the knee is often much distorted, in conseciuence of the head of the tibia being partially dislo- cated backAvards, the femur having its axis directed more or less on one side most commonly imvards, constituting a kind of genu Amlguin. In fact, in these cases the distortion of the limb is of a threefold character ; there are, 1, contraction in the angular direction backAvards ; 2, displacement of the head of the tibia backAvards from the lower end of the femur, Avhich projects considerably forwards ; and 3, rotation of the leg and foot oiitAvards. The angular contraction is dependent upon adhesions in the joint, and on the L L 2