CHRONIC INTERSTITIAL MASTITIS—CHRONIC ABSCESS. 715 ns l.u i' i!i fl 1: ft % 1 On pinchin" up the skin over it, a dimple may form, as the areolar tissue of the subcutaneous fat is continuous Avith that penetrating’ betAvcen the lobules of the mamma, which is involved in the interstitial inflammation. A similar nodule may not unfrequeutly be found either in another part of the same breast or on the opposite side. The disease may be painless, or may be associated with severe neuralgia, Avorse during the menstrual period. In the early stages there may be slight tenderness, but this is seldom marked, and is often Avanting A\dien shrinking is far adA’auced. There may in some cases be a slight enlargement of the axillary glands. The diagnosis Avill be considered more specially Avith reference to cancer and adenoma. AVhen it occurs beloAv the age at which cancer is met with, its recognition does not as a rule present great difficulty. From adenoma it is ■distinguished by obseiwing its less defined outline, audits comiection A\uth the nipple, shoAA-ing that it is actually an altered piece of the mammary gland, and not an encapsuled tumom\ If more than one lobule be affected, the diagnosis is more easy, as all true tumours of the mamma are single. From a simple cyst it can usually be distinguished by its more leathery feel and less defined outline, but the diagnosis is not always possible. When from the age of the patient, the multiplicity of the tumours, the duration of the disease, or from its general features, it can be certainly stated that it is not a cancer, it may be left to time to determine its nature, but should there be the slightest doubt in the mind of the Surgeon that it is malignant, it is his duty to cut deeply into it Avithout delay, and remove a piece for microscopic examination. No treatment exerts much influence on the progress of the disease, but this ■is of less consecjuence, as beyond the neuralgic pain sometimes accompany- ing it, and the mental anxiety it often causes the patient, it is not likely to cause any incouA'enience. Blistering, prolonged painting with iodine, and other foi’ms of counter-irritation, produce little or no effect. Belladonna may ■be applied to relieve the pain. Pressure may possibly be of service in some cases. Probably the cases of so-called adenoma or cancer cured by pressure were in reality merely chronically inflamed lobules. Should it seriously annoy :he patient, the affected lobule may be safely removed. If the breast is widely affected, no operative interference should be undertaken. In operating in these cases the incision should be placed so that if the disease be cancerous ffie Avhole mamma may be removed. Chkoxic Abscess of the Breast may assume two forms : the Diffused, and the Circumscribed or Encysted. Chronic Diffused Abscess of the breast may occur at all ages, in the single or in the married. It usually appears in the submammary areolar tissue, often without any external exciting cause, but as a consequence of impaired health, in stnimous or cachectic females, and is often connected with uterine derange- ment. It may attain a A’ery large size, and, pushing the mammary gland fonvards, it gives the breast a conical, ]ioiuted shape. Fluctuation soon becomes apparent, and the ordinary local signs of chronic, cold or congestiA'e abscess disclose themselves. Chronic abscesses in this situation may arise also in con- uection Avith caries or necrosis of a ril). The Treatment of chronic diffused abscess of the l)reast consists in making a free outlet for the pus in a dependent situation, keeping it free Avith a Irainage-tube, and dressing it by some efficient antiseptic method ; at the «ime time that the general health is improved Avith iron or cod-liver oil.