GASTROTOMY—COLOTOMY—LITTRE'S OPERATIOK. 845 intestine from an aperture in the omentum or mesentery into ^^hich it had slipped. If it be a case of volvulus, the colon may be untwisted, as in a ca.se on which I operated in 1840. If the case be one of intussusception it is usually useless to attempt to reduce the iuvaii'inatiou without bringing the whole tumour out upon the abdominal wall. This can usually be done without difficulty, and as the dis- tension in these cases is seldom great it may be accomplished without allowing the small intestines to escape. Kcduction must be accom]dished by a process of kneading and drawing down the sheath, rather than by forcibly attempting to drag out the entering tube. If reduction is imiDossible, the Surgeon has three coui'ses open to him. He may return the bowel and leave the patient to his chance of a natural cure ; he may bring out the piece of intestine and make an artificial anus in the wound ; or he may cut off the whole invaginated part and sew the two ends of the gut to each other. The course to be adopted will depend on circumstances. As it is presumed that the operation has been undertaken because there was no hope of a spontaneous cure, the first course is not likely to be successful, though in many cases it is the only one that can be adopted owing to the exhausted state of the patient. The second will leave the patient an artificial anus in the most inconvenient position. The third plan would, therefore, be the best to adopt if the condition of the patient is such as to allow the necessary time for its performance. The chances of recovery are, however, not great, whichever plan be adopted. After the obstruction, whatever may be its nature, is removed, the intestines must be returned and the wound closed and dressed as described on p. 757. The abdomen must be well supported by a bandage and the knees must be bent over a pillow. Opium must be continuously administered, and nothing but ice and barley-water allowed for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The mortality following gastrotomy for the relief of intestinal obstruction is, as might be expected, very high, amounting to about 80 per cent. Thus Ashhurst finds that, in 57 cases in which the operation was done, there were 11 recoveries only. Colotomy.—The operation required to give exit to the intestinal contents, is of two kinds. In one the intestine is opened in the left iliac fossa, by cutting through the peritoneum covering it. In the other it is opened in the loin by cutting between the layers of the meso-colon, being thus exposed where it is uncovered by peritoneum. Colotomy may be required for the following conditions :— 1. Intestinal obstruction beloAV the descending colon. 2. Intense pain in defaecation, in ulcerated cancer of the large intestine or rectum. 3. Cancerous fistula between the rectum and bladder. 4. Congenital absence of the rectum. Littre’s Operation. Inguinal Colotomy.—The first operation, or Littre’s, as it has been called, was proposed by a Surgeon of that name, in 1710, who adHsed that in these cases the sigmoid flexure of the colon should be opened from the left iliac region; but it was not until the year 177G that any opera- tion of the kind was performed, Avhen Pi I lore, a Surgeon of Rouen, was the first to make an artificial anus on the adult, for relief of retention of fajccs • this he did, not according to Littre’s method, but by opening the cascum from the right iliac region. Fine, of Geneva, in 1797, opened the transverse colon