959 AFTER-TREATMENT OF LITHOTOMY. [t lias uiulergoiie many modifications at the hands of its iincntoi, and is low given to the profession witli all its improvements, as seen in Figs. H()2 aiu m. The start' consists of three parts. 1. A rectangular tubular start, ^\ith a vide slit making a cpuirter turn, so as to fit it for lateral lithotoiny. 2. Attached uO the start' by a hinge close under the handle, is an arm-jiiece, oi con- luctor.” This ends in a knife-blade, set it right angles to the shaft and deeply grooved at its under part. An “ indi- cator ” consists of a slender rod traversing he handle of the start' and terminating n a cu}) sliding in the tubular staff. The mode of action of the instrument <s as follows. The conductor being di-awii ■oack on its hinge, the rectangular start' is ■.lassed in the usual way into the bladder, ;he angle being brought just in front of :he prostate and resting on the mem- ■n-anous part of the urethi-a. When the Sm-geon has satisfied himself that the ttart' is in proper position, he draws down ;he .conductor, and, pressing upon it, lushes its terminal knife through the ■issues of the perinmum until it enters the lit in the staff. The groove in the ‘ conductor ” outside the perinteum is now ■continuous with that in the start' which is :ii the urethra. The “ indicator” is now Irawn up so that its cup lies immediately mder the groove of the “conductor,” The superficial incision having been made m the usual way, the urethra is opened rui the groove in the “ conductor ; ” the » eak of the knife is then engaged in the iupof the “ indicator,” and as the knife advances the rod of the indicator vescends, but ceases to move if the blade depart from the proper route by lipping out of the slit in the staff and stops when the end of the groove is .'.eached. The knife, or gorget (Fig. 863), ends in a blunt beak, and the itandle is set at an angle to the blade, so as to enable the Surgeon to watch tiore acciu-ately its attitude and position. Professor .Johnson, of Baltimore, has used this instrument many times, and peaks highly of its utility. After-treatment of Lithotomy.—After the operation, the patient must e removed to a bed, which should be proiierly arranged by having a large I'piare of Macintosh cloth put across it. On this a folded sheet should be laid, vhich must be rolled up on the further side, so that, as it becomes wetted by the scape of urine, it may be drawn across from under the patient. This must be hanged frequently in order to keep him clean and dry. A full dose of tincture f opiujii in barley-water should then be given : a warm flannel laid across he abdomen ; plenty of barley- or gum-water allowed for drink, and nothing Fig. SG2. — Smith’s Lithotomy Stafi’ ami Conductor. Fig. S03 (to riglit).—Smith’s Gorget.