300 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. will have been ear-ache, followed by profuse foetid discharge from the ear, it is usually secondary to chronic inllamination of the middle ear with perforation of the tympanum, escape of the ossicula auditus, and deafness. When the sphenoid or the ethmoid is allhcted, deep pains in the head, persistent oedema of the eyelids, and foetid discharge from the nose, will reveal the nature and seat of the mischief. The Treatment of necrosis of the cranial hones will vary according to the nature and the seat of the disease. In the dry pitted variety, exposing and scraping the diseased osseous surface or the apj)lication of a strong solution of sulphuric acid will often bring about a healthy action, provided the disease have not penetrated too deeply. Should there be reason to think that the inner table has been perforated, it will probably be safer to leave the case to the reparative processes of nature than to trephine. If, however, the anterior wall of the frontal sinus be the seat of the disease, or if the supraorbital ridge be affected, the dry and rough bone may be safely removed, as I have on more than one occasion had to do, by the application of the trephine in the first instance, and of the gouge in the other case. When exfoliating necrosis of the outer table. O’’ of the whole thickness of the bone, aflects the vault of the skull, the loosened plate may readily be lifted off its granulating bed by means of the elevator or forceps, after it has been fairly exposed. Necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone may be looked upon as an incm’able disease, which is usually fatal from septic meningitis. When the sphenoid or ethmoid is the seat of necrosis, little can usually be done by operative interference ; though in the latter case portions of sequestrum may sometimes be extracted through the nostrils, and in one extraordinary case under my care in University College Hospital, I removed through the mouth the whole body of the sphenoid bone. The patient, a man aged forty-three, had suffered from syphilis for fifteen years, and from disease of the bones of the nose and upper jaw for three years. The anterior part of the hard palate was destroyed, and it was through the fissure so formed that I removed the bone. The fragment included the sella Turcica, and the roots of the pterygoid processes, but the clinoid processes could not be recognised. The patient had suffered from no cerebral symptoms except occasional headache and some loss of memory. He made a good recovery. The Patella is rarely necrosed. I have, however, met with two instances of primary necrosis of this bone. One case occurred in an elderly woman. The disease came on without any evident external cause, commencing in the anterior part of the patella and gradually implicating the bone, until it became perforated, when rapid suppurative disorganization of the knee-joint ensued, necessitating amputation. The other case occurred after simple fracture of the patella, in a man, and is described at p. 446, Yol. I. Ribs.—When the ribs are necrosed, abscesses and sinuses will often form to a considerable extent on the side of the chest. These must be laid open, and the diseased portion of bone scraped away by the gouge. In doing this, care must of course be taken that the adjacent intercostal space be not punctured by an unfortunate slip of the instrument—an accident that is best avoided by protecting the gouge well with the finger.