I PULSATING SARCOMATA—TREATMENT. 321 h ‘I [1 I pulsating sarcoma. The true osteo-aneurism is so rare that its existence is often denied, and should it be met with it will have so many signs in common with the^«lsa/«/?^sarcoma, that it will be almost impossible to effect the diagnosis. It is well to bear in mind that the malignant sarcomata are sometimes multiple, occun’ing, with pulsation and bruit, in more situations than one : thus I have seen growths of this kind, with their signs well marked, springing both from the pelvis and from the ribs. The true osteo-aneurism has been described as occurring only in the ai’ticiilar ends of long bones ; whereas the malignant disease, though commonly occurring in these situations, is also fi’equently found in other parts of the body. Besides these, there are two conditions which, in many cases, will enable the Surgeon to determine that the pulsating tiunour is an osseous aneurism : viz., the absence of all bruit, though the pulsation be distinct, and the detection by firm pressure, after the tumour has been diminished by compressing the artery leading to it, of an osseous margin around its depressed centre. From ordinary aneurism the diagnosis of pulsating tumours of bone is, in many cases, attended by almost insuperable difficulties. So gTeat are these, that there are many cases on record in which the most experienced Surgeons have ligatured arteries for tumours that were supposed to be aneurismal, but which have turned out to be pulsating sarcomata. A principal point to be attended to in effecting the diagnosis is the situation of the tumoui’, which may occur away from the ordinary sites of aneurism, in parts of the body where there is no vessel large enough to give rise to such a disease—as, for instance, about the head of the fibula or the outer side of the pelvis. Then, again, its incorporation with the subjacent bone, the want of a distinctly bmited and circumscribed outline, and the existence in many cases of plates of bone in the wall of the tumour—giving rise, perhaps, on pressime, to the peculiar rustling or crackling sound characteristic of central bony growths —will enable the Surgeon to come to a conclusion as to the true nature of the tumour. In this he will be further assisted by its having on compression a soft, doughy, or spongy feel, or appearing as a depression surrounded by an osseous margin. In many cases also, the less impulsive character of the beat of the tumour, the peculiar shrill and tremulous whiz in the pulsation and bruit, will throw much light on the nature of the disease. But it cannot be doubted that, when tumours of this kind occur in some of the ordinary situations of aneurism, as about the brim of the pelvis, and in the popliteal space, the diagnosis is surrounded with difficulties which no amount of surgical skill or tact may be able to overcome. From ordinary tumours of lone, the existence of pulsation and bruit will always suffice to distinguish the gi’owths under consideration. Treatment.—Pulsating sarcomata of bone must be treated exactly in the way as those that do not pulsate. Ligature of the main artery has been practised in several supposed cases of “ true aneurism of bone,” but in the majority of these the disease turned out to be a soft sarcoma, and conseciuently no benefit resulted. The growth of the tumour was not even retarded. Roux, however, has recorded a case in which he cured a pulsating swelling in the lower end of the radius by ligature of the brachial artery. Lallemand cured a so-called aneurism of bone by the same treatment. In a patient of Dupuytren’s no return of the disease took place for six years, when it recurred, and amputation became necessary. VOt. II, Y