EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 1107 i % 1 ical Registrar that the results are as follows. In 76 cases operated on i luring a period of five years, there were 4 deaths, one from tubercular disease 4 kidneys, lungs, &c., one from pleurisy, one from septicjcmia, and one from uppurative nephritis. Perineal abscess occurred in 8 cases ; extravasation of /irine in 1, and epididymitis in 4. There was lijemorrhage in 5, and in 2 the )atient was left with pernianeut chordee during erection. (For the ettects produced on the kidneys by splitting strictures and internal nrethrotomy, see Chap. LXYII.) External Urethrotomy.—The division of the stricture from tvithout, by ncision through the perimeum, may be performed by two distinct operations ; he one being applicable only to those strictures that are pervious to an instru- nent; the other to those which are impermeable. In the first case a grooved : taff is passed through the stricture, and the section is made upon this. In ; he second case, the Surgeon cuts through the stricture, without any guidance -'Xcept such as his anatomical knowledge may afford. Operation for Permeable Stricture.—The first of these operations, ntroduced by Synie as Urethrotomy, and commonly called the Perineal Section, 3 comparatively a simple procedure. The instruments required for its per- ormance are a staff, a Xo. 8 silver catheter, a pointed scalpel, and a broad lirector. The staff should vary in size from No. 1 to No. (!, according to the ightness of the stricture ; it should be grooved along its convexity, either the vhole of the way, or better, merely for the lower third (Fig. »8o). The stem is smooth and of full size, and joins into the ower grooved part by a distinct shoulder, which, being passed lown as far as the stricture, forms by its projection a guide to -hat part of the urethra requiring division. In those cases in vhich there are false jiassages, a hollow staff of the same size ind shape may be advantageously used ; the flow of urine hrough it indicating Avith certainty its passage into the poste- ior part of the urethra. Performance of Perineal Section.—The operation is •performed as follows. The staff having been passed well through the strictm’e,'so that the shoulder rests against the ipper part of the constriction, the patient is tied up as for ithotomy, and the Surgeon, seating himself in front, pushes he scalfxjl, with the back of the blade downwards, into the nesial line of the perinaeum a little above the rectum, and cuts ipwards for an inch or more into the raphe. The dissection is an'ied on very carefully e.xactly in the median line until the staff is reached, when the knife must be entered into its groove hekind the stricture, and carried forwards through this.' 'I’hc staff, having been pushed m to ascertain that all is free, must be withdrawn, and a No. 8 catheter intro- luced, Avhich is to be kept in for forty-eight hours ; it must then be taken out, ind at the end of eight or ten days the urethra must be dilated by the intro- luction every .second day of a fnll-sizcd silver catheter. Urine escapes for some little time by the perineal incision ; but, as this heals by granulation, he flow of fluid gradually lessens and at last ceases entirely. The principal points to be attended to in this o])eration are— 1. To see that the stafl’ is fairly through the stricture, and to be espcciallv ;areful in determining this if false passages exist. 4 u 2 Fig. 035.— Shoulileri'd Sfaiir for I’erinwil Sec- tion.