PROLAPSUS ANI—CAUSES—DIAGNOSIS, 899 '^li m ntestinal mucous membrane be coujoined witli tliis, as in dysentery, chronic iarrhcca, &c. So, again, the habitual constipation, often occurring; in persons : f a relaxed habit of body, apparently proceeding from want of power in the ectum to expel its contents, and requiring constant straining at stool, iire- isposes to this affection. It is especially common in those who labour under iricture, stone, or any other disease about the urinary organs that require a onsiderable effort to be made in expelling the contents of the bladder. In ersons whose constitntion has been relaxed by a long residence in India, this Isease also frequently occurs. In other cases, and indeed most usually, the rolapsus is associated with piles, the weight and dragging of the haemorrhoids rawing down the mucous membrane. This is especially apt to happen, hen there is genend haeinorrhoidal tendency about the anus. In fact, the luses of prolapsus may be summed up under three heads; 1. Simple ilaxation of tissue, such as is met with in weakly persons ; 2. Sympathetic j ritation, as in chronic tenesmus, stone in the bladder, &c.; 3. A [‘.^morrhoidal or polypoid condition of the mucous membrane of the ctum. ' Diagnosis.—Prolapsus is readily recognized. It consists in the protrusion a ring of mucous membrane of a red or purplish colour, and having a limewhat turgid look, rather lobulated in shape, and varying in size from :if a walnut to a small orange ’''ig. 820). The mucous mem- ane covering this ring will be und to be continuous with that vesting the sphincter, and this institutes the mark of distinc- >n between ordinary prolapsus, forojecting intussusception or a J'Otruding polypoid growth. In Dlapsus there is, when the pro- vision is down, a dragging and parting sensation, often attended th a good deal of spasm about neck of the bladder, and nnfrequently with symptoms of strictiu’e. In chronic cases, the anal iirture appears to be permanently relaxed ; and, on introducing the finger 0 it, it is found to be widened and weakened. The folds of skin in its rghbourhood are relaxed and elongated, radiating from it as from a centre ; [.y are commonly bluish, soft, somewhat swollen, and pendulous, and often seat of a good deal of irritation. The protrusion at first occurs only after baecation, and then readily goes back of itself, or is reduced by steady pressure jim it; after a time, however, it will come down at other periods ; thus it ;y protnide during riding, Avalking, or even standing, and is returned with Ich difficulty. ptrangulation of the prolapsus may occasionally occur, if it be allowed to tmdc for a considerable length of time without a proper attempt being le to push it back. It then becomes swollen and livid, with great pain 1 tenesmus, discharges a fetid ill-conditioned pus, and may eventually fall 3 a sloughy state, and thus separating, undergo a spontaneous cure. There is a fonn of prolapsus that arises from conq)lete atony of the levator 3 M 2