HERNIA. 788 more severe the bowels must be kept coufiued by small doses of opium till the fourth day at least. The opium may then be discontinued if there is no abdominal tenderness or otlier bad symptom, and the bo.wels allowed to act naturally. If they do not act before the end of a Aveek, and the patient is Avell in other respects, an enema may be given. It is of very great importance not to administer any purgatiA^es in these cases. If the mechanical obstruction has been removed tlie boAvels will be sure to recover their proper functions ; though, in consequence of the gut having been severely constricted and almost wounded by the pressure of the stricture, it may require to be left quiet for a feAV days before it can recover its peristaltic action. The administration of purgatives, by still further irritating it, Avill increase the risk of inflammation in it, and Avill probably do much harm. The patient, of course, must be kept upon the simplest and most unimtating diet—indeed, he should be alloAved only barley-water and ice for the first day or tAvo, and afterAvards some beef-tea ; but no solid food must be giA^en till the bowels have acted, and all risk of peritonitis has passed. The result of the operation for strangulated hernia is greatly influenced by the age of the patient ; the result being very much more favourable in the earlier than in the later periods of life. Of 15 consecutive cases operated on at University College Hospital, of which 8 recovered and 7 died, the aA'erage age of the fatal cases Avas 23 years greater than that of the successful ones. Obesity, also, has a very unfavourable effect. The depth of the wound in fat people adds to the difficulty of drainage, and the discharges, if aUoAved to decompose, readily soak into the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue, and giA'e rise to diffuse cellulitis with sloughing. Accidents and Modifications of the Operation.—The operation haAing been thus described, AA’e liaA^e next to consider in detail certain accidents attending it, or modifications which may be required ; such as Peritonitis, Acute Enteritis, the Management of the Intestine according to its conditions, the Management of Adhesions and of the Omentum, Wounds of the intestine and of Arteries, Sloughing of the sac, Artificial Anus, and Faecal Fistula. Peritonitis after Operation.—The great danger to be apprehended after operations for hernia is the supervention of diffuse iwriionilis. This A'ery rarely exists at the time of the operation. In a considerable proportion of cases it arises from the introduction of septic matter into the caAuty of the abdomen from the AAmund either at the time of the operation or at a later period should septic suppuration take place. In other cases it is dependent upon the condition of the gut at the time it is reduced. EA'enif it be actnallv gangrenous it may become rapidly surrounded by firm inflammatory exudation and diffuse inflammation may thus be preA'ented. J\Iore commonly this fiils, the inflammation extends more widely, the quantity of the exudation becomes so great that the healthy part of the peritoneum cannot absorb it (Vide p. 855, Vol. I.); septic changes then take place in the accumulated fluid; the irritating products are diffused Avidely and general peritonitis results. Mhen the gut is gangrenous, and probably if it be very acutely inflamed as the result of long strangulation, the surrounding inflammation of the peritoneum may assume a septic form, the infection taking place from within the gut. Ihe fii*st cau^ can be obviated by the use of antiseptics during the operation, but it is eAudent that these can liaA'e no influence Avhen the source of infection comes 1' 6 tl :TI |ini infl Ft'- ilK i]U 1!1(5 ijti' tillll ie;