797 ARTIFICIAL AyUS—PATIIOLOGY— TREATMENT. lower aperture, beiii" no longer used for the trimsniission of faeces, gradually becomes narrower, until at last it may be almost completely obliterated ; whilst the upper portion- of ■ intestine becomes dilated in consequence of there being usually some slight obstruction to the outward passage of the feeces. The mesenteric portion, opposite the aperture, becomes drawn out into a kind of prolongation or spur, the fnll importance of which was first pointed out by Dupnytren. This spur-like process projects between the two apertures, and, being deflected by the passage of the feces, has at last a tendency to act as a kind of valve, and thus to occlude the orifice into the lower portion of the gut. The integuments in the neighbourhood of such an aperture as this usually become irritated, infiamed, and excoriated, from the constant passage of the fieces over them. In some cases, the mucous membi-ane lining the edges becomes everted, and pouting ; and, in others, a true prolapse of the gut takes place, large portions protruding. An artificial anus fully formed in this way never undergoes spontaneous cure. Besides this, which is the ordinary form of artificial anus, we must, I think, recognize at least two other varieties, both of which I have met in practice. In one of these, the angle formed by the gut is adherent to the upper extremity of the sac which has been returned, and thus lies at some distance from the surface, so that the fascal matter traverses a long canal before it reaches the external aperture. In the other variety the angle of the gut is fixed at a higher point within the abdomen, and the feces find their way out through a channel bounded by agglutinated coils of intestine and layers of lymph. In both of these forms, there is a considerable distance between the external opening and the aperture in the gut. Thus, then, there are three forms of artificial anus, differing from one another according to the situation of the angle of the gut in relation to the external opening and to its connections. "When a Fcccal Fistula has formed, the condition of parts is somewhat dif- ferent. The aperture in the intestine consists of merely a small perforation in its coats, unattended by any considerable loss of substance, through which a quantity of thin faeculent matter exudes, giving rise to a good deal of irritation of neighbouring structures. In some cases, there are several apertures communicating with the gut, and extending through the skin. Fistulous openings of this kind not luifrequently undergo spontaneous cure after existing for a few weeks or months. Treatment.—If the aperture be merely a small one, with a narrow fistula leading into the gut, the chief inconvenience suffered by the patient often arises from the initation of the skin around the opening by the continued moisture of the feculent matter. In such cases the skin should be protected by means of zinc ointment or eucalyptus oil and vaseline spread on lint; and the patient should wear a pad to restrain the discharge. By the pressure of this pad the aperture may sometimes be made to close. In other cases, the occasional a])plication of the galvanic cautery or of a red-hot wire will induce contrac- tion of its edges ; and in other instances, again, a plastic operation of some kind may be required. But I confess 1 have not usually seen much advantage result from such operations, which arc often followed by erysipelas. As the exi.stence of an artificial anus, by interfering with nutrition, commonly gives rise to consider.ible emaciation, it becomes necessary to support the patient’s strength by a sufficient quantity of good and nourishing food ; this is of greater conseciuence the higher the fistula is, as the interference with the