URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. 102 2 principally of phospluitc of lime and some animal matter; usually about 85 per cent, of the phosphate, to 15 of the organic ingredients. The concretion is said to consist sometimes of carbonate of lime (p. 13B5). It generally occurs in old people, though it may sometimes be met with in young subjects. From a lad of nineteen, wdiom I cut for vesical calculus, I extracted two jjrostutic concretions. Characters.—Prostatic calculus is usually of a grey or ashy colour, some- what triangular in outline, smooth and polished (Fig. 505), having facets, being very hard, and seldom much larger than a cherry or plumstone; though it may occasionally attain a considerable bulk, having been met with as large as a hen’s egg, and then presenting a branched or irregular appearance. Though usually but one or two exist, which arc sometimes deposited in a kind ■of cyst in the organ, as many as thirty or forty have been met with, the ducts being filled, and its whole tissue being studded with them. Symptoms.—Calculus in the prostate gives rise to a sense of weight, pain, and irritation in the perinseum, sometimes to retention of urine, and, in fact, to the ordinary symptoms of enlarged and irritated prostate; it often occasions a tolerably free discharge of mucus in the urine. On introducing a sound, this passes over the stone, sometimes rubbing or striking it with a distinct grate or click before its beak enters the bladder. This is increased by the finger in the rectum pushing the organ up, and thus bringing the stone into more direct contact with the sound. In some instances the calculus is deeply imbedded in , the prostate, and cannot be touched by the sound. In these Fig 005 Prostatic ^ ’ ‘calculus. cases the stone may usually be felt through the rectum. If there be many small calculi in a sacculus in the prostate, they may be felt by introducing the finger into the rectum, when a peculiar ■crackling or grating sensation may be experienced by the rubbing together of the calculi, something like that produced by beads in a bag. Treatment.—The treatment of prostatic calculus will depend upon the •situation, size, and number of the concretions. When they are large, single, or at most two or three in number, readily struck with the sound, and situated ■on the uretln'al surface of the organ, the ordinary median operation may advan- tageously be performed, and the calculus removed with a scoop or forceps. If the calculi be small and very numerous, not to be felt with the sound, but only through the rectum, it will be wiser not to have recourse to operation, which •could not remove the whole of the concretions. In such circumstances, a palliative treatment directed to the subdual of the irritation of the prostate, and the use of the catheter to relieve retention, is the only course to pui-sue. When prostatic and vesical calculi occur together, the same operation will rid the patient of both forms of the disease. (For foreign bodies in bladder, vide Vol. I., p. G51.) I ,■! ; / CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. Stone is of rare occurrence in women ; in London, certainly, it is not often met with. Thus, South states that, during a period of twenty-three years, 144 males were operated on for stone at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and only 2 females. In some districts, how'ever, stone would appear to be more common in women than this. Thus, according to Crosse, at the Norwich Hospital, the proportion has been about 1 woman to 19 men. Civiale states, as the result of