tiq8 diseases of THE FEll ALE GENITAL ORGANS. cyst. These measures have consequently, Avherever possible, given wav to tlie safer and far more certain procedure of ovariotomy. Ovariotomy !is probably the greatest triumph of modern Surgerv in its operative de]iartment. In its original conception, as in its ultimate perfection, it reflects the greatest lustre on the British School of Surgery. Its history is curious. Its progress was slow, and was marked by those oscillations in the judgment and the favour of the Profession which frequent] v precede the final establishment of a great advance in practice. The operatioii was originally proposed, and its practicability discussed in 17G2, by William Hunter. It was strongly advocated and its practicability taught by John Bell, at a later period. It is said to have been performed in France, bv L’Aumonier, in 1782, in a case of “scirrhous disease with abscess” of the ovary, the patient recovering. A pupil of John Bell—McDowell of Kentucky, who is the father of ovariotomy—first performed the operation in America in 1809 ; and in all oj^erated thirteen times. In 1823, Lizars operated for the first time in this country. But the operation, though several times repeated, fell into discredit, in a great measure owing to the imperfection of the diagnosis of the cases in which it was done, and was not revived until 1830, when Jeaffreson of Framlingham practised it successfully through a small incision an inch and a half long only. From this operation Ave must date the reAUA’al of ovariotomy in Great Britain. This operation was folloAved by others performed by King of Saxmundham, Crisp of Harleston, and West of Tonbridge. The example of these provincial Surgeons Avas followed by their brethren in London, and the operation was practised by many, especially by Walne, F. Bird, and Baker BroAvn, but with very discouraging results ; for of 102 cases collected by Robert Lee, in 00 the disease could not be removed, and of these 19 died ; whilst of the remaining 102, 42 terminated fatally. Not only did these unfaA'Ourable results discourage the Profession, but a groAving belief sprang up that this mortality, great as it Avas, did not by any means represent the whole extent of the fatal cases, and notwithstanding that C. Clay of Manchester continued to operate, ovariotomy Avas in great danger of falling into such disrepute as to be excluded from ordinary surgical practice. In 1857 appears for the first time in connection Avith ovariotomy the name of a Surgeon, Avho Avas not only destined to revive OA’ariotomy, but to re-establish it firmly and definitively amongst the great operations in surgery ; for in December of that year Sir Spencer Wells performed his first operation of this kind. This case, the first of a series of 1,000 cases that he had performed up to the year 1881, led to a reviA'al of the operation. In Sir Spencer Wells’s hands, ovariotomy assumed a new shape ; its performance aa^us guided by definite rules, the operatiA'e details Avere carefully Avorked out and systematized, and the after-treatment much improA'ed. The results obtained showed a gradually increasing success : thus, of the first series of lOO cases published, 3,4 cases died and 00 recovered ; of the second scries, 28 died and 72 reco- vered ; of the third 100 cases, 23 died and 77 recovered ; Avhile of the last 100, completing his 1,000 cases, only 11 died and 89 recovered ; this repre- senting in 1880 a mortality less than a third of that recorded in 1800. These results, admirable as they are, have been still further improved upon during late years by other well-knoAvn Avorkers in this field of Surgery ; and the pro- cedure, formci’ly so fatal as to be jAronouuced niijustifiable, is noAV the most successful of all great surgical operations.