636 DISEASES OF THE MOV Til AND THROAT. Tliere are tliree conditions in cancer of tlie tongue tliat are of serious import, and that may, singly or in conjunction, lead to a fatal termination. 1. The pain not only wears out the patient by depriving him of rest and comfort in life, hut, being gi’eatly aggravated by mastication and deglutition, causes him to avoid these acts, and hence leads to a process of gradual starvation, either by his abstaining from food altogether, or taking a liquid and innutritious diet,^ because it is more easily swallowed than solid and more substantial meat. 2. ihe profuse salivation tends still further to exhaust the patient; and 3. The occurrence of hasmorrhage, when the disease has eroded so deeply as to open up one of the larger branches or trunk of the lingual arteiy, may, by repeated recurrence or by sudden gush, destroy life. If cancer of the tongue be allowed to run its natural course uninfluenced by operation, nothing can exceed the misery of the patient’s death, brought about as it is by pain, starvation, and hsemorrhage. When the patient dies by recur- rence of the disease after removal, he has probably obtained some months of I immunity from suffering. The fatal termination usually takes place from 1 recurrence in the glands of the neck, secondary growths in the viscera being i rare, as in ej^ithelioma of other parts. The enlarged cermcal glands gradually | reach the skin, soften, and break down, leaving foul cavities, and the patient I gradually dies exhausted from pain, and poisoned by the absorption of the i decomposing discharges. Sometimes the enlarged glands push into the ;; pharynx, obstructing both deglutition and respiration. Still, as a rule, if !: recurrence in the mouth can be avoided, the mode of death is far easier than r: when directly due to the primary disease in the tongue. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of epithelioma of the tongue in its advanced |:i stages is usually easy enough ; the deep foul ulcer on one side of the tongue, I;; the pain, the fixity of the organ and the enlargement of the lymphatic glands , f,.’ make the nature of the disease unmistakeable. At this period, however, little can be done to cure the patient or even to relieve him. To be of any service jg to the patient, the diagnosis must be made early, while the disease is still j!li localized, and an operation can be undertaken with some prospect of giving | ji lasting or permanent relief. SypMlitic ulceration., with an indurated base, hji, commonly closely resembles cancer of the tongue : so closely, indeed, that it is ; only with great difficulty that the diagnosis can be effected. This, however, ;; may generally be accomplished by observing that the syphilitic ulcer is elongated, irregular, does not rapidly extend, and is associated with other m evidences of constitutional syphilis ; while the cancerous ulcer is of a more ' 1 circular shape, has hard and everted edges, is more painful, and spreads with 1 greater rapidity. The influence also of treatment will after a time throw r .light upon the nature of the disease. The diagnosis between the syphilitic yumma and cancer is most important; ■. here the duration of the disease and the co-existence of constitutional syphilis i i must be taken into account. It is also of much moment to attend to the f situation of the tumour; the syphilitic gumma being almost invariably met ; i with deeply in the substance of the organ, whilst the cancerous growth is commonly seated at its edges or tip. It must, however, be remembered that a tongue which has long been the seat of those morbid changes in tlie way of thickening of its epithelium and ulceration of its mucous membrane, which are common sequelfc of syphilis, may at length become affected by true epithelioma, the tongue being simultaneously affected by both diseases.