IXCONTIXENCE OF URINE. *043 I'! lit i] / residual urine is drawn off every third or seeoiid day. Alter a time this will be required once or twice daily. Until the patieut becomes accustomed to the use of the catheter all inmecessary exertion, fatigue, and, above all, chills, -should be most carefully avoided. When once the habit has been established, these pi'ecautious may be relaxed, provided there is no evidence of renal disease, and the urine continues clear and healthy. The catheter must not be retained, lest it occasion subacute cystitis. If, as often happens in senile atony, the prostate is somewhat enlarged, care must be taken that the catheter really enters the bladder, and that the dilated prostatic urethra be not alone emptied. The weight of the residual urine causes the fundus of the bladder to pouch behind the prostate. This pouch must, be thoroughly emptied by slowly withdrawing the catheter when the body of the bladder has been drained. Should subacute cystitis come on, ’with decomposition of urine, during the treatment, the bladder must be w’ashed out after emjityiug, Avith antiseptic lotions of the permanganate of potash, quinine, or iodoform. When once a bladder has become atonic in advanced age, it never completely ireeovei-s its contractility. The regular use of the catheter becomes imperative, and, by taking off the habit of retention and of overloading of the bladder, it :may do much to restore the normal contractility, in some degree at least. ' When once fairly established, “ catheter-life ” may continue for many years without discomfort or appreciable danger. No medicines are of any special service in these cases. Except, perhaps, nux A’omica or strychnine in small doses long continued. The general health must be attended to on ordinary principles; and it must not be forgotten • that one gi-eat difficulty and source of disease in advancing years is for the system to rid itself of its excreta—to clear away its OAvn ashes—from organs and tissues, and that the residual urine found in an atonic bladder is but one, though possibly the most obvious evidence of this lack of power. The treatment of that form of atony of the bladder, Avhich arises in younger subjects, as the effect of gonorrhoeal cystitis or stone in the bladder, consists in the daily use of the catheter with the same precautions that are to be adopted in cases of senile atony. Whenever the m-ine becomes turbid or offensive, antiseptic injections must be used to clear the bladder. All this the patient may, in most cases, be readily taught to do for himself. When once he has acquired the art of auto-catheterism, he may pursue the ordinary busi- ness of life Avith comfort and without peril. But he must neA’cr relax his care of himself, lest subacute cystitis may come on, or phosphatic deposits form in the bladder. IxcONTiXENCE OF UiiiNE.—This term is usually applied to all cases in which the urine is passed involuntarily. It occurs in three forms :—1. Pas- sive incontinence in Avhich the urine dribbles aAvay as fast as it is secreted, the bladder remaining empty. 2. Distension of the bladder Avith overfloAv. Active incontinence, in which the bladder is emptied involuntarily at short intervals by its oAvn contraction. Passive Incontinence arises most commonly from ])aralysis of the neck of the bladder, from disease or injury of the spinal cord. It is occasionally met Avith in children from causes that are not clearly ascertained. Civiale shites that it has been knoAvn to arise from impaction of a calculus in the neck of the bladder in such a way as to prevent its closing, and yet to leave