SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 174 possible to wound the vein or pick up the nerve. If, liowever, tlie wrong compartment of tlie common sheath be opened, or the special sheath not properly divided, either of these accidents may happen. Almost all the accidents which may happen in ligature of the carotid arise from one of two causes, either drifting too far outwards in the deeper parts of the incision, or not cleaning the vessel sufficiently before jDassing the needle. In cases of aneurism the difficulty is often increased by the proximity of the sac, and sometimes by inflammatory thickening of the sheath. In females the edge of the thyroid body may overlap the artery, and present a somewhat puzzling appearance when exposed. In performing the operation subcutaneous vessels are occasionally wounded, which may bleed rather freely ; if so, they should be ligatured. If the outer compartment of the sheath is accidentally Fig. 472.—Diagram of tlie Eight Common Carotid Arterj- at tlie seat of Ligature. p.Z. platysiiia ; s.m. stemo- mastoid, drawni to one .side; o.h. omo- hyoid, drawn downward.saiid inwards; s./t. sterno-hyoid; a. the artery; v. internal jugular vein ; d.n.n. descen- dens noni nerve. The imeumogastric is Fig. 471.—Incision for Ligature of the Carotid Artery. not seen, as it lies behind the vessels. opened, the jugular vein swells up so as to obsciu’e the artery, but all difficulty from this source will cease if it be drawn aside by a retractor, or repressed by the assistant’s finger. When this happens, it must not be forgotten that the proper compartment of the common sheath, and the special sheath of the arteiy, have both to be opened before passing the needle. The pneumo- gastric nerve should never be seen, as it lies deeply behind the vessels. After the operation the patient should be propped up in bed with the head forwards in order to prevent any strain upon the artery. Rest can be still more perfectly obtained by applying a leather splint moulded before the ojiera- tion to reach from the loins to the back of the head, and to overlap the shoulders. It can be put on immediately after the operation, and worn for the first two weeks. Lifjature of the Carotid Toeloiu the Omo-hyoid becomes necessary if the aneurism have attained a very considerable size, extending low in the neck, and not leaving perhaps more than one inch of clear space above the clavicle. The operation is best performed by dividing the sternal head of the stenio- mastoid close to its origin. A V'Shaped incision must be made, one limb of