DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. just above the ring- or ledge formed by the sphincter, and is usually met with towards the posterior part of the gut on one side of, or opposite to, the point of the coccyx. Occasionally more than one ulcer exists in this situation. If a fissure accompany the ulcer, it commonly leads from this across the face of the sphincter to the verge of the anus ; but in many cases o‘ne or two fissures, sometimes even three or four, exist without any ulcer. The fissures are usually slightly indurated and cord-like, extending merely through the mucous membrane, scarcely, if at all, implicating the deeper structures ; and not un- frequently their external termination is concealed by a small red pile or flap of integument. The existence of the ulcer may usually be determined by exploring the rectum with the finger, which, if practised in these examinations, will detect a small, soft, and velvety patch at the diseased spot; on touching this, the patient will usually complain bf acute and burning pain. In some cases the ulcer may be brought into view by examining the rectum with the speculum ani, here delineated (Figs. 810 and 811). The fissure may always readily be detected by Fig. SIO.—Anal Dilator. Fig. Sll.—Speculum Aiii everting the mucous membrane of the anus, and by lifting up or turning aside the pile that covers the lower end of the crack. During this examination, it will usually be found that the sphincter ani is in a more or less spasmodically contracted state, admitting the finger and instrument with difiiculty. Sym'pioms.—The symptoms of ulcer or fissure in the anus are very character- istic. The patient complains of pain, usually of a severe burning character, on the passage of a motion, especially if a hard one ; it commonly occurs at the time of defecation, but occasionally commences a few minutes afterwards, and continues from half-an-hour to several hours. This pain is very severe, and peculiarly wearing and burning ; it is generally most felt opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, but not unfrequeutly radiates round the j^elvis or down the thighs. In many cases it produces a good deal of continued irritation about the genito-urinary organs, giving rise to symptoms of spasmodic strictiu-e; a fi-equent desire to urinate, tenderness about the prostate, and seminal emis- sions. The pain is sometimes so severe that the patient avoids defecation as long as possible, and even abstains from food with the view of lessening the necessity for the frequency of this act. Very commonly in women, the pains