596 DISEASES ‘OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. considered to be finally determined. That they are in some way connected with the teeth is hi^’hly probable, as they always start from the neighbourhood of the alveolar border. Fibromata and Chondromata are met with in the lower jaw, and spring either from the periosteum or from the centre of the bone. They resemble similar growths elsewhere, and present nothing peculiar. Osteomata of both forms, the cancellous and ivory exostosis, are met within the lower jaw; it is in fact one of the most common seats of the latter affection. Odontoma.—This is not properly a tumour of the jaw, but it is most con- veniently mentioned here, as closely simulating disease of the bone. An odontoma is the result of some peculiar modification in the growth of a tooth, resulting in the formation of an irregular mass of dental tissues of no definite shape. Tomes describes one removed by Sir W. Fergusson as being “ com- posed of enamel, dentine, and bone derived fi’om calcification of remnants of the dentine pulp, thrown together without any definite arrangement.” According to Heath only 8 cases have been recorded, all in the lower jaw. The tumour can be removed if its nature is recognized without taking away any of the jaw-bone. Outgrowths from the fangs of fully developed teeth composed of dentine and cement are not uncommon, forming the so-called warty teeth, but these are seldom of sufficient size to be of any surgical interest. Sarcomata of various kinds form a considerable proportion of tumours of the lower jaw. Myeloid, spindle-celled, and round-ceUed sarcomata are all met with. The first is always central, the two last may be periosteal or central. Chondrifying or ossifying sarcomata are occasionally met with. The myeloid tumour usually runs a simple course, the other forms are frequently malignant. The mode of growth of these tumours and the symptoms they give rise to are the same as in other parts. Diagnosis.—In the lower, as in the upper jaw, it is of gneat importance to diagnose the simple from the malignant affections ; as in the latter form of disease an operation is sometimes not advisable, the soft tissues around the bone being implicated to such an extent as not to admit of removal, and consequently not of the full and complete extirpation of the disease. The malignant tumours may generally be readily detected by the rapidity of their growth, by their pulpy or elastic character, and by infiltration of neighbouring parts, with early adhesion to the skin and implication of the glands below the jaw. Treatment—The treatment of tumours of the lower jaw depends in a great measure upon the character of the growth. In single cysts of moderate size, with thin walls and but little solid tissue around the cysts, the best mode of treatment consists in cutting down through the gum on the expanded portion of bone, opening the cyst by means of the antrum-perforator, small trephine, or cutting pliers, according to its size and the thickness of its walls; letting out the contained fluid; and then, by introducing a plug of liut. causing the cavity to granulate from the bottom, and gradually to contract. When the cysts are so large that they have destroyed the integrity of the bone, or when they are associated with a large quantity of solid tissue, as in the true multilocular cysts, excision of the diseased bone must be practised. This, also, is the only plan of treatment that can be had recourse to in other growths in this bone. ! I I i V I