CONTENTS. XIV VM.V. (■iiArTEJt LXll.—Special Keuxle. Ix’GUINAIj Herxia—Varieties—Oblique—Coverings—llelations—Direct—Ooveriiifrs —delations—Incomplete or Interstitial—Double—in I'cmales, Si^iis—Diagnosis —Treatment—Operation—Seat of Stricture—Hernia containing Cieeum, Sigmoid Dlexurc of Colon, or Urinary Bladder—Hernia in Tunica Vaginalis, or Congenital Hernia—Signs and Diagnosis—Comi)lication ndth Undcscendcd Testis—Treat- ment—Enej^sted Hernia in Tunica Vaginalis, or Infantile Hernia . . 80.")—Sl."> Eemoral Heexia—Course—Uclations—Contents—Signs—Diagnosis—Treatmeiit— Operation 81G—822 Umbilical Hernia—In Children—In Adults—'I'rcatment—Operation . . 822—82r>. Ventral Hernia—Treatment 825—82G Pelvic Hernias—Obturator—Symptoms—Treatment—Perineal—Vaginal—Puden- dal—Sciatic 82G—823 Diaphragmatic Hernia — Congenital Defect of Diaphragm—Traumatic Dia- phragmatic Hernia 828—830 Chapter LXIII,—Ixtestixal Obstructiox. Acute Obstruction—Causes—Symptoms—Chronic Obstruction—Symptoms— Intussusception—Symptoms—Diagnosis of Causes of Obstruction—Previous Histoiy —Mode of Invasion—General Condition of Patient—Character of Pain—Vomiting —Duration and Degree of Constipation—Phj'sical Examination of Belly of Eectum—Quantity of Urine—Treatment—Acute Obstruction—Inversion of Patient—Puncture of Intestine—Operation—Treatment of Intussusception— Operation—Treatment of Chronic Obstruction—Gastrostomy—Colotomj'—Littre's Operation—Amussat’s Operation—Comparison of Littre's and Amussat's Opera- tions 831—850 Chapter LXIY.—Tapping the Abdomen.—Operations ox the Abdomixal Yiscera.—Tumours of the Groin. Tapping the Abdomen 851 Removal of Portions of the Intestine 852—853 Excision of the Pylorus . . . 853—851- Operations ON THE Liver—Abscess—Hydatids—Diseases of the Gall-Bladder 854—85G Extirpation of the Spleen 857 Diseases of the Umbilicus—Ulceration—'Warty-growth—Epithelioma— Umbilical Fistulre 857—858 Tumours of the Groin —ALarieties — Diagnosis — Pulsating — Xou-Pulsating — Reducible—Irreducible—Fluid Tumours—Solid Tumour.s—Trcatmcnt—Removal of Cystic or Solid Tumours 858—851> Chapter LXV.—Diseases of the Large Intestine and Axu.s. Congenital Malformations—Nanwving and Partial CTo.surc of Anus—Complete Closure of Anus—Occlusion of Rectum above Anus by Membranous Septum— Complete Absence of Anus—Treatment—Closure of Anus with Absence of Rec- tum—Treatment-—Perineal Incision—Iliac Incision—Lumbar Incision —Absenee of Anus : Opening of Rectum into otlicr Canals 8G0—863