562 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. may take on active growth and reach a lai-ge size in a comparatively sliort i time, becoming even as largo as a cocoa-nut; the skin covering them then p lx;comes thin but not adherent, and not nnfrequently a network of veins 4 covers the mass. These growths frequently send prolongations under the I ramus of the lower jaw, and then occupy the whole of the sjiace between its angle and the mastoid process; when firmly bound down, they involve the iii blood-vessels and nerves in this important region, coming into relation with j the styloid process and its muscles, with the internal as well as the external j carotid, and even pressing upon the pharynx and projecting into the fauces, | as Avas the case with the patient from Avhom the annexed cut (Fig. GG7) was taken. In such cases as these the deep relations of the tumour are so intricate, Fig. 668.—Simple Tumour of Parotid. Fig. 669.—Simple Tumoxir of Parotid: Back View.: important, and extensive, that no operation for its removal can be under taken, and the patient eventually dies, usually in consequence of disturbance of the cerebral circulation, or of compression of the pharynx and larynx ; or the skin may at last become adherent and give Avay, profuse hmmori’hage afterwards taking place from the ulcerating tumour. In consequence of the large size that these tumours may attain, they have a tendency to produce atrophy of the parotid, and often, by interfering Avith the cerebral circulation, occasion various congestive spnptoms about the brain. Besides the ordinary “ parotid tumour ” pure cartilaginous growths are not uncommon, and more rarely pure fibromata and myxomata are met Avith. Cysts, except as secondary formations in solid tumours, are very rare. Mali{jnant Tumours of the parotid are of moderately frequent occun’ence. They are most commonly soft glandular cancers (encephaloid), but scirrhus has been met with in this situation. They spring from the gland itself and not from the structures superficial to it as is the case AAuth the simple growths. They present the ordinary rapid growth of such tumours ; they are from the first fixed and deeply seated, and early implicate the skin. Spindle-celled and round-celled sarcomata are occasionally met with in this I p I