SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 338 near the umhilicus was attcm])tcd, but could not be done. The operator’s |i intention was at first to tie the left coinnion iliac artery ; but, finding the disease more extensive than he expected, he enlarged the incision and tied the aorta. The sac burst during the manipulation necessary to reach the aorta, j j and about a pint of blood was lost. The patient died in eleven hours. Stokes compressed the aorta with a silver wire passed round it in the way of a ligature. Me made a crescentic incision fivc-and-a-half inches in length in the left side of the abdomen, extending fi-om an inch below the tenth ril3 to the middle of Poupart’s ligament. The abdominal muscles and fascia transver.salis were then incised, and the peritoneum exposed and drawn out of the iliac fossa. It was accidentally, but only slightly wounded. The patient being turned on his right side, the arteries and aneurism were exposed, and the wire passed by means of an aneurism-needle round the aorta immediately above its bifurcation. The patient died in twelve hours. Perhaps the most interesting point in this remarkable case is the fact of the pulsation returning in the left (sound) femoral artery nine hours after the operation ; showing how rapidly the collateral cir- culation can be re-established. Czerny’s case scarcely belongs to the jnesent category, but may be mentioned here. The patient was a French soldier, the upper part of whose thigh had been shattered by a ball during the Franco- German war. Secondary haemorrhage occurring, Czerny tied the common femoral, and also the superficial femoral below the origin of the profunda. This arrested the hmmorrhage for a time ; but in six days it recurred. Czerny ; then tied the common iliac ; but, as the haemorrhage continued, he thought j that he had tied the external iliac, and proceeded to apply another ligature— j which he placed by mistake on the aorta. The patient survived twenty-six | hours. In this case too, twenty-two hours after the operation, the injured i limb was cold and as if dead, while the opposite limb was warm, and retained j sensation and motion. | In this operation, there are not only all the dangers attendant upon the ligature of arteries of the first magnitude, but also the risk of producing fatal peritonitis, Avhether the abdomen be cut through, or the vessel sought for by stripping up the peritoneum from the iliac fossa ; and it appears to me that a patient suffering from so large an inguinal aneurism as to justify ligatm-e of the aorta, would have a better chance of recovery, or rather of prolongation of * life, by the adoption of proper constitutional treatment, together with pressure upon the tumour and the distal ligature or compression of the artery. Lister’s ' aortic compressor might be applied in such cases, so as to moderate the flow of i blood. Should the operation be again attempted, there is little doubt that the ; incision adopted by Sir A. Cooper would be the safest, as the danger of peri- 1 tonitis is much less under the present modes of treatment. | Aneurism of the Internal Iliac and its Branches—Aneurism of the i Trwik of the Internal Iliac Artery is extremely rare. The only case with which I am acquainted is one related by Sandifort. The three principal branches of this artery—the Gluteal, the Sciatic, and the have all occasionally, though rarely, been found affected by this disease. Of these branches the gluteal has been most frequently found aneurismal, the sciatic next, and the pudic least frequently ; indeed, I am acquainted wit-i only one instance of aneurism of this vessel. It is the preparation 1701 in the Museum of the College of Surgeons ; and it exhibits an aneurism of the trunk of the pudic nearly an inch in diameter, full of laminated clot.