248 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. the fatal result in these cases was first ])oiiite(l out by Hadweii, who showed that, Avheu the yeiu is Avouuded by the aneurism-needle, it is transfixed at two points, between which the thread is drawn across ; and when this is tied, a segment of the vein is necessarily included with the artery in the noose. It is this inclusion of the ligature within a portion of the vein, where it acts like a seton, and keeps up constant irritation, that occasions thrombosis and subse- quent disintegration of the clot in the interior of the A'essel; and it is consequently this circumstance, and not the mere wound of the vein, that determines the great fatality of this accident. Guided by this view, the treat- ment becomes obvious. It consists in removing the ligature at once, and thus, by taking away the source of irritation, converting the wound into a simple puncture of the vessel, which readily heals. The Surgeon should, therefore, as soon as the accident is perceived, withdraw the ligature, and, opening the sheath about half-an-inch higher up, re-apply it to the artery there. The hgemorrhage from the punctured vein readily ceases on the appli- cation of a compress. The occurrence of Secondary Haemorrhage after the ligature of the superficial femoral is a troublesome accident, and one in which the Sui’geon, to use Fergusson’s expression, “ will most assuredly find himself in an eventful dilemma ; ” and in which it is necessary that his line of action should have been well considered beforehand, as he may not have much time to spare for reflection when such an event takes place. In cases of this kind four lines of treatment present themselves, viz. : the employment of pressure ; ligature of the vessel at a higher point; deligation of the bleeding artery in the wound ; or amputation of the limb. Pressure may be applied by placing a graduated compress of lint or com- pressed sponge over the bleeding orifice, and fixing it there firmly by a horse- shoe tourniquet. This mode of treatment, although extremely uncertain, occasionally succeeds; should it not do so, however, and bleeding recur a second time, it is useless to continue it, as experience has shown that the haemorrhage will continue until the patient is worn out. Ligature of the superficial femoral at a higher point, or, if the artery have been tied too high for this, deligation of the common femoral or of the external iliac, presents itself as a probable means of arresting the liEemorrhage. Such an operation, however, is fraught with danger, and has, I believe, invari- ably been followed by gangrene. It might at first be supposed that the limb would not be placed in a worse situation after the ligature of the external iliac, whether the superficial femoral had been previously tied or not ; the anasto- mosing channels remaining the same in either case. But in reality it is not. so ; for, although the blood might find its way through the epigastric, the circumflex ilii, the gluteal, and sciatic arteries, into the deep femoral and its branches, yet from this point the difficulty of its transmission through the limb would be materially increased. If the superficial femoral be open, it serves as a direct and easy channel for the conveyance, to the vessels of the leg and foot, of the blood brought by the anastomoses. But when the superficial femoral is tied, this blood must find its way through a second chain of anas- tomosing vessels,—those intervening between the branches of the deep femoral and the articular arteries of the knee ; and here the real difficulty would arise, its impulse not being sufficient to oA’crcome tlie obstruction to its ]iassage through these small channels, which might not improbably be still further i 1