DISEASES OF BLOOD VESSELS. 66 i less distinct than in true aneurism ; and tortuous vessels will be felt leading I CHAPTER XLI. ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS, AND NiEVUS.— HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. ANEUBISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. Aneurism by Anastomosis is a disease of the arteries, in wliich the vessels become excessively elongated, tortuous, and serpentine ; sometimes they assume a varicose condition, being dilated into small sinuses, and are always very thin-walled, resembling rather veins than arteries in structure. This kind of dilatation of the vessels gives rise to pulsating tumours, often of con- siderable size, and of a very active and dangerous character. They may be situated in almost any tissue or organ of the body, but are generally situated in the submucous and subcutaneous areolar tissue, and most frequently in the upper part of the body, especially about the scalp, orbit, lips, and face ; but they have been met with in other situations, such as the tongue, and even in internal organs, as the liver ; and I have seen very active growths of this kind on the side of the chest, nates, and foot. It will generally be found that the arteries leading to an aneurism by anastomosis, though at a con- siderable distance from it, are tortuous and enlarged, with thin and expanded coats, and pulsate actively ; in fact, constituting that condition that goes by the name of Cirsoid Dilatation of the vessels. Aneurism by anastomosis forms tumours of varying magnitude and irregular shape ; they are usually of a bluish colour, have a spongy feel, are readily compressible, not circumscribed, and have large tortuous vessels running into and from them on different sides. Their temperature is generally above that of neighbouring parts ; and a vibratory or purring thrill, with distinct pulsa- tion, may be felt in them. This pulsation or thrill is synchronous with the heart’s beat, may be arrested by compressing the tumour or the arteries leading to it, and returns with an expansive beat on the removal of the pressure. The bruit is often loud and harsh, but at other times of a soft and blowing character. These growths rarely occur in infancy, but generally make their appearance in young adults, though they may be met with at all periods of life, often as the consequence of injury. Diagnosis.—It is of importance to effect the diagnosis between ordinary amurism and that by anastomosis. In many cases the situation of the tumour at a distance from any large trunk, as on the scalp, the outside of the thigh, or the gluteal region, will determine this. Again, the outline of the growth is to it from different directions. The swelling also is doughy and very com- pressible ; but, when the pressure is removed, the blood enters it with a whiz and thrill, not with the distinct pulsating stroke that is found in aneurism. The pulsation, not so forcible as in aneurism, is more hea^nng and expansile. :»• ‘ i