HERNIA. 758 wc have to consider only the lieniial })rotrusions that occur from the aljdomeii •—the common situation of this disease. A hernia may occur at almost any part of the abdominal wall ; though it is far more liable to do so in some situations than in others, being commonly met with at those points where the muscular and tendinous structures are weakened to allow the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and of the round ligament in the female ; or for the transmission of the large vessels to the lower extremity ; hence the inguinal and crural canals are the common situations of this disease. It may, however, occur in various other situations, as at the umbilicus, the thyroid foramen, the sciatic iiotch, in the vagina, the perinseum, through the muscular portions of the abdominal wall, the dia- l^hragm, &c. Structuee of a Hernia.—In whatever situation it occurs, a hernia is composed of a Sac and its Contents. The Sac is the prolongation of that portion of the peritoneum which over- lies and corresponds to the aperture through which the hernia iirotrudes. Jt is in all cases composed of a nech and a locly. The Neck is usually narrowed, though in some old hernise it becomes wide and expanded ; it is commonly short, consisting indeed of a sudden con- striction of the sac in this situation, as happens in many forms of femoral hernia ; but in other cases it is elongated and narrowed. The neck of the hernial sac usually becomes greatly thickened and of an opaque colom-, by the growth of fibroid tissue in or upon it from the irritation to which it has been subjected by the pressure of the hernial tumour or the truss, by the incorporation of the subserous areolar tissue lying externally to it, or by the puckering together of its folds, which h^ive been compressed by the aperture in which it lies. The Body of the sac is usually globular or pyriform, sometimes elongated and cylindrical ; it may vary from the size of a cherry to a tumour as large as the head. When recent, it is usually thin and transparent, though in some cases it becomes gTeatly thickened, having arborescent vessels ramifying in it, and being almost laminated in structure ; this is especially the case in old femoral herniee. In other instances, however, it becomes thinned and atro- phied as the tumour expands, so that the contents become visible through it. This is especially the case in old umbilical hernise, in which I have seen it as thin as the finest gold-beater’s skin. The sac, though usually forming a perfect inclosure to the hernial contents, occasionally constitutes but a partial investment to them, more particularly in such organs as the cmcuin or bladder, which are partially uncovered by peri- toneum. In other instances it may be ruptured, or altogether absent. The sac is absent when the hernia occurs as the result of a wound, injury, or abscess of the abnormal wall. It cannot be said to exist in a congenital hernia, and may be absent in cmcal and in umbilical hernise. jMore rarely a double hernial sac is met with, one being protruded into or placed behind the other. There are instances of three sacs occurring together; and Sir A. Cooper relates a case in Avhich six were met with in the same person. The abdominal parietes outside the sac undergo important changes. The aperture through which the hernia protrudes usually becomes circular; after a time, indurated and rounded at the edge, and considerably enlarged ; when situated in the movable portions of the abdominal wall, as in the inguinal