240 SPF.CIAL ANEURISMS. York (wliose patient died ontlie nineteenth day, of secondary hasmorrliaf^e), hy Ihgelow, Torracclii, Cianflone, Porta, Landi, Kimball, Altiniiller, Thomas, J. K. Rodgers, and lligginson ; and three times by the Surgeons in the American Civil War. The success that lias hitherto attended this operation is certainly remarkable, ivhen we take into consideration the depth at which the artery is situated and its great size ; it must, I think, be accounted for by the fact that, although in these cases the patient runs the ordinary risks attendant on the ligature of the larger pelvic arteries from the exposure and handling of the peritoneum, yet he is saved the danger resulting from the supervention of gangrene ; the anastomosis between its branches and that of the neiglibouring vessels being so free, and the course traversed by the blood so short, that no difficulty can arise in the maintenance of the collateral circulation. The steps of the operation necessary for the exposure of the internal iliac artery are precisely analogous to those recpiisite for the ligatm-e of the common trunk. When the vessel is reached, it must be remembered that both the external and internal iliac veins are in close relation to it; the one being to its outer side, the other behind it. As these vessels are large, and their coats thin, it is necessary that they should be separated by the finger-nail, or the blunt end of the aneurism-needle, before the ligature is passed round the artery ; care must be taken also not to put the vessel too much on the stretch in 1 applying the ligature, lest the ilio-lumbar artery be ruptured. There is little risk of including the ureter which crosses the artery internally as it always i adheres firmly to the peritoneum and is pushed on one side with it. As the | length of the artery varies .much, usually ranging between one and two inches, and as when it is short it has a tendency to be placed deeply in the pelvis, it i would, I think, be more prudent, and occasion less chance of secondary hsemor- • rhage, for the Surgeon to ligature the common trunk. ! i ‘ I PEMOBAL AND POPLITEAL ANEUBISMS. | I We have, in the preceding section, considered aneurisms affecting the groin, | which are by no means unfrequent. Aneurisms of the thigh are much rarer; i but those in the ham are very commonly encoimtered. Thus, out of aal ; j cases of aneurism recorded in the British medical joinnals of the present i century. Crisp has found that 137 affected the popliteal, and only 66 the | femoral artery. Of these 66, 45 were situated either in the groin or upper : ] part of the thigh, and 21 only were truly femoral or femoro-popliteal. The ; { reason of this difference in the frequency of the occurrence of aneurism in ; \ different parts of the vessel, may be accounted for by attention to its ; li anatomical relations. In looking at the main artery of the lower extremity, j 3 in its course from Poupart’s ligament to where it terminates in the anterior | > and posterior tibials, we see that it may be divided in relation to the j I muscular masses that surround it, into three principal portions : 1. That H which is situated between Poupart’s ligament and the inner margin of the fi sartorius, and which may be considered inguinal; 2. That which intervenes be- d tween this point and the aperture in the adductor tendon, and which may be considered/emomC- and, 3. That division of the vessel which corresponds to the J ham, and which may be considered popliteal. Of these three divisions, the first u and last are comparatively superficial, and, being unsupported by muscle, readily a