482 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. affection assumes most frequently the form of simple chronic enlargement with or without the presence of melon-seed bodies. It forms a rounded swelling-, causing prominence of the deltoid with distinct fluctuation. The Treatment consists in aspiration and blistering. Should this fail, or should the soft crackling on movement show the presence of melon-seed bodies, an incision may be carefully made at the most convenient spot, and the sac emptied and drained for a week or ten days. This operation must not be undertaken without due consideration, and must be performed with the strictest anti- septic precautions, as the bursa frequently communicates with the articular cavity, and any septic process occurring in it would almost certainly lead to destruction of the shoulder-joint. The Bursa over the Olecranon.—Inflammation in this bursa ending in suppuration is a common result of falls on the elbow, with or without a wound. It causes severe pain and redness, with oedema extending a long way above and below the joint. The pus may burrow some distance down the fore-arm unless early measures be taken to j)revent it. The inflammation very rarely extends to the elbow-joint, but superficial necrosis of the olecranon sometimes occurs. Chronic enlargement with some thickening of the walls forms the affection known as “ miner’s elbow.” Solid tumours of the bursa are rare. It is not uncommon to And the bursa the seat of gouty deposits. The Treatment of these affections is conducted on exactly the same principle as in the corresponding conditions at the knee. The Bursae about the Trochanter Major are occasionally the seat of chronic inflammatory enlargement or dropsy, and; of acute inflammation ter- minating in suppuration. The latter condition is of great importance from its simulating hip-disease, or sometimes causing it by impheatiou of the joint. The diagnosis can be made only by observing that the characteristic deformity of the hip is absent, and on opening the abscess the finger mil not be able to detect either diseased bone or any connection with the joint. The treatment is conducted on ordinary principles. The Bursa over the Tuberosity of the Ischium is sometimes enlarged, forming the condition termed “ Weaver’s bottom.” The enlargement is often solid, and may cause great discomfort in sitting. Under these circumstances it may be safely removed by the knife. The Bursa beneath the Psoas is rarely enlarged, but cases have been recorded in which fluctuating tumours, containing serous fluid, have been met with in the groin, and have been supposed to have arisen in this way. These tumours are deeply seated, and closely resemble psoas abscesses ; they become tense when the thigh is extended and lax during flexion. Their true nature can be ascertained only by the use of the aspirator. They must be treated on the principles already laid down, but the frequent communication of this bursa with the hip-joint must be borne in mind. The Bursae in the Ham, especially that beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius, not unfrequently become enlarged. Their walls become slightly thickened, but melon-seed bodies or solid enlargement are rare. The distended bursa forms a fluctuating swelling, which becomes tense during extension of the joint and lax during flexion. There may be some slight pulsation communicated from the popliteal artery, and the swelling may thus resemble an aneurism, but the pulsation is not expansile, and the tumour does not diminish in size on compressing the femoral artery. Sometimes by firm