DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 558 of cancer of tliis region'. (Hee next page.) ThoBe growths most fi-equently occur on tlie lower lip. Cijsh are usually small and transparent, M'itli thin walls, contaiiiincr a glairy straw-coloured fluid. d’hese should always* be dissected out'- mere excision of a portion of the wall being followed by recurrence of the disease. Nctivi of the lip are usually of an active character, and may either be excised, if of moderate extent and implicating the whole thickness of the lip ; or, if of large size and projecting from the mucous surface, tliey may be safely ligatured (p. 7i3). I have had under my care several cases of Nmvus of the upper lip, impli- Fig. 660.—Section of an Epitlielioina of the Face’ showing the Epithelial Cells penetrating into the substance of the true Skin. eating the whole substance of the part, and have successfully removed them by the repeated application of potassa cum calce. Warty Growths are common on the lip, and are apt after exi.sting some time to become epitheliomatous. Sometimes crusts of epithelium, forming horn-like pirojections, are developed on the surface. They are best treated by early removal, no local application being of much use, and the danger of their becomino- malignant being very considerable. Epithelioma.—The structure of epithelioma has been so fully des- cribed at p. 1028, Yol. I., that it need not detain ns here. The accompanying cut (Fig. 660) is a good illustration of the microscopic characters usually pre- sented by it in the face and lips. Epithelioma of the lip commences either as a warty growth, which gradually ulcerates, or as an indurated crack or fissure, the edges of which have a tendency to spread. The submaxillary lymphatic glands tend to become early involved; and the disease may eventually prove fatal by the pain, exliaus- tion, and constitutional irritation thus induced. Lip-epithelioma almost invari- ably occurs in men, and in the lower lip—I have never met with a case affecting the lower lip of a wmman. It is met with after the middle period of life. Of twenty consecutive cases in which I have operated, and of which I have notes, thirteen were above sixty, and six between fifty and sixty years of age ; in one case, only did the disease occur under thirty. This disease is at first entirely local, often being induced by some irritation, as by a rugged broken tooth, or by smoking a clay-pipe ; and when removed it does not, I believe, very com- monly recur. At least, of the very many patients that have been operated upon at the University College Hospital, I have knowil but few to return witli a recurrence of the disease ; I cannot, therefore, but come to the conclusion that the operation for epithelioma of the lower lip frequently rids the patient permanently of his disease. When return does take place, it is not always in the cicatrix or in the adjacent glands. I have seen recurrence at the angle of the mouth and inside the cheek of the side opjiosite to that on which the jwimary disease had declared 1