848 TNTK^TINA L OBHTR UGTION. as to bo mistaken for the pcritoncnni or the gut. It must be carefully torn through at the posterior part of the wound. 'J''he sub-peritoneal fat is then exposed, varying in amount with tlio fatness of the patient, and must he torn through carefully with the lingers. The gut is now reached- If the operation is being performed for obstruction, the colon is tensely distended, of a greenish colour, and usually rises up into the wound. In cases in which this operation is being undertaken for relief of pain in cancer of the rectum, the gut may be collapsed. In this state, not only is it difficult to find, but the part uncovered by peritoneum is so small that it is difficult to make an Fig. S04.—Incision in Left Lumbar Eegion in Amussat’s Operation. Fis 805.—Colon opened and Stitched to Sides of Incision. opening without wounding that membrane. All these difficulties are at once overcome by distending the gut with air. Lund has invented an ingenious apparatus for this purpose, but the gut can easily be distended by means of an ordinary enema-syringe, the anus being closed around the tube by a mass of wet or oiled wool pressed against it by the hand of an assistant. As the air enters the gut will be seen and felt rising up in the wound (Fig. 804) ; and iu most cases, if the transversalis fascia have been sufficiently torn through, it will rise up to the level of the skin. If from any reason this fails, the gut may be found by pushing the fore-finger into the wound till the lower end of the kidney is felt, immediately in front of which the colon lies. Pressure on the abdomen will sometimes make it appear. In other cases it may be found by turning the patient on his back, passing the fore-finger into the posterior part of the wound, and then seizing between it and the thumb the parts in contact with it. The patient is then rolled back on to his side and the gut drawn up into the wound. In whatever way the gut is seized, it must be drawn well up to the level of the skin. Two silk threads, each about two feet long, are then passed through the gut and the skin and fat on each side of the wound in the following way. A curved needle is threaded on the suture ; it is first passed through the skin and fat on one side of the wound, then longitudinally through the anterior part of the gut exposed, including about one inch of it; finally the needle is passed from the wound opposite to the point at which it entered on the other side. A similar thread is then passed in the same w^ay, including the posterior part of the gut exposed. Care mast be taken not to puncture the peritoneum wdth the anterior thread. An incision is then made into the gut between the two sutures, the finger introduced, the loops pulled out and divided and tied. Thus the gut is rapidly secured by four sutures immediately after being opened, and fiecal matter is prevented from running into the wound (Fig. 805). More sutures may be put in afterwards if necessary. If much escape of fteccs is expected, the wound may be touched with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 3]), and the posterior part over which the faecal matter wall flow may be smeared with iodo-vaseline ointment or carbolic oil before the gut is opened. The gut should be brouglit as far back