ANEURISM. 136 tlie principle of the practice, that, in the majority of cases, the aneurism was cured, Avhen the artery leading to it was compressed, in precisely the same way as when a spontaneous cure takes place, or when the Hunterian operation is performed—viz., by the deposit of stratified fibrine in the sac, and by the consequent consolidation of this (Fig. 455), aided by the contraction of the walls of the sac ; and that, as in the case of ligature of the vessel, it was not necessary that the whole of the circulation through the artery should be entirely and permanently arrested, but merely that it should be lessened in quantity and force to such an extent as to be compatible Avith the deposition of laminated fibrine in the sac ; and it Avas clearly shown by examination after death that, if the pressure were pi’operly conducted, the artery was in no Avay injured or occluded at the part compressed. The recognition of the true IDi’inciples on which compression of the artery leading to the sac cures the aneurism, has led to important results ; for as the severe pressure that was formerly considered necessary is noAV known not only to be unnecessary, but often to be absolutely injurious, no amount of compression is exercised beyond what is requisite to restrain and mode- rate the flow of blood into the sac ; no attempt being made to compress the artery so severely as to lead to its oblitera- tion by inflammation. But, although, where the pressure is moderate or the anastomosing circulation free, the consolidation of the con- tents of the sac takes place in the way that has just been described, it would be an error to suppose that this is the process by which the anemism becomes cured in all cases in which recourse is had to compression. There can be no doubt that in some oases, where consolidation has taken posa’^of Lainina?eci pl^^cc in a fcw lioui’s after the employment of pressure, coagulation of the contents of the sac has suddenly occurred ; and this sudden coagulation, Avhich at one time was dreaded by Surgeons, has been found by increased experience to be in the highest degree advantageous, as leading to a more rapid and equally certain cure of the aneurism. In the tubular form of aneurism, which is far less frequent than the sacculated in the extremities, the cure appears to take place, if it ocem-s at all, rather by the gradual contraction of the partially emptied sac than either by the slow deposit of laminated fibrine, or by the rapid and almost sudden coagulation of its contents. The sac gradually shrinks, and shreds of fibrine only are found adherent to its sides. But although I belieA’e that the condition of the aneurism, whether sacculated or tubular, has a considerable influence upon the mode in Avhich compression acts in effecting a cure, and also upon the time that is occupied in the treatment, this being much shorter in the sacculated than in the tubular form of the disease ; yet there can be no doubt that this is materially influenced also by tAA'O other circumstances—auz., the condition of the blood within the sac, and the completeness of the compression. When the sac is filled with fluid blood, and the compression is not un- inteiTuptedly complete, the sac appears to empty itself to a considerable extent, and eventually to consolidate by the deposit of laminated fibrine. But, if the sac already contain some solidified layers, and the compression I I 1 |t /I- jl: 1 'I' fj a. ll:. \ I :.