EXCISION OF JOINTS. 392 by incision, excision of the joint or amputation becomes necessary to save the life of the patient. Excision of the knee-joint may be practised also in cases of faulty ankylosis resulting from old disease or injury, by which the limb has been rendered useless. Operation.—Excision of the knee-joint may be performed by making a horse-shoe incision with the convexity downwards, commencing at the side of one condyle of the femur, and passing immediately above the tubercle of the tibia to a corresponding point on the opposite condyle (Fig. 550). By this incision the ligamentum patell® is divided, and the patella turned up in the elliptical flap; the crucial ligaments, if not already disorganized, are then to be cut across, any remaining lateral attachments divided, and the bones cleared for the saw. In doing this the limb must be forcibly flexed, and the knife carefully applied to the posterior part of the head of the tibia; for this purpose a blunt-pointed resection-knife is the best. The articular surfaces must now be sawn off. This may be done with Butcher’s saw ; but in order to ensure a perfectly smooth section of the bones, many Surgeons prefer to use a common saw somewhat broader than that ordinarily employed in amputations. The lower end of the thigh-bone should first be removed. The saw-cut may safely be carried from before, backwards, or in the opposite direction, as there is no danger of injuring the popliteal vessels. It must be made accurately at right angles to the shaft of the femur, in the antero-posterior dii’ection ; but, in the transverse, it should be parallel to the articular surface, that is to say, the inner side must be left shghtly the longer, as the internal condyle is naturally longer than the outer. If the condyles retain their normal shape, it is not difficult to judge the proper angle at which the saw should be held ; but if they are ex- tensively and irregularly destroyed, the following guide may be taken. The , patient lying flat on his back, the thigh is flexed to a right angle, and adducted till the inner side of the knee corresponds to the middle hue of the ; body ; the saw is then to be held parallel to the surface of the table. A thin ; slice is next taken off the tibia. It is usually recommended to cut from behind ; forwai'ds (Fig. 551) to avoid wounding the popliteal vessels ; but if ordinary ; care be taken there is no risk of doing this, and it is more convenient to saw | in the opposite direction. The section must be accurately at right angles to j the shaft of the tibia in both directions. ; It has been recommended to saw the tibia concave and the femur convex, i using a Butcher’s saw, but it is difficult to do this so that the bones shall lit accurately, and the method presents no advantage over the ordinary way of ; II U- V . 1 ■