DIFFICULTIES liND ACCIDENTS IN TRACHEOTOMY. 689 tracheotomy on children. In laryngotomy in the adult it does not appear to me to be necessary. Difficulties and Accidents.—This operation is often attended by extreme lifficnlty, and not nnfrequeiitly by much danger. The difticulties occurring in tracheotomy are chiefly referable to four heads : 1. Dithculty in Exposing the Trachea ; 2. Profuse Hmmorrhage ; 3. Difficulty n Opening the Trachea ; and 4. Trouble in Introducing the Trachea-Tube. 1. The Diffiadhj in Ed-posing ihe Trachea increases greatly as the incisions .pproach the sternum, and is especially great in stout, short-necked persons. Hie want of an assistant to hold the wound open adds greatly to the difficulty if the operation. This may, however, be overcome by the use of the ingenious ‘Automatic Retractor” devised by R. W. Parker (Fig. 750). The accidents Fi". 750.—Automatic Retractor. 1 this part of the operation arise very commonly from taking the guides icorrectly. In their anxiety to open the trachea above the thyroid body, oimg operators are apt to make the incisions too high. The pomiim Adami f a young child, esi)ecially when covered by much fat, is scarcely to be felt, nd the hyoid bone is sometimes mistaken for it. Owing to this error I ha^'e lore than once seen the thyroid cartilage partly divided, and in one case an oening made even in the thpo-hyoid space. The mistake is avoided by taking le sternal notch as the guide, and making the incision in a child reach to jout a finger’s breadth above it. Insufficiency of the incision is a frequent »urce of difficulty. Even in the smallest children it should never be less than le inch in length. Deviation from the middle line is a common cause of tcident, leading to wounds of the th)U’oid body or even of the carotid artery, • to great difficulty in finding the trachea. It may be the fault of the assis- • nt, who should keep the chin exactly in the middle line as a guide to the irgeon. In very young children an inexperienced assistant may even draw le trachea on one side with the blunt hook. 2. The Haemorrhage may occur either from arteries, fi’om veins, or from ,e th)Toid gland. Arteiial hiemorrhage is less frequent and troublesome than ie bleeding from other sources. When it occurs, it happens chiefly from the )und of some anomalous branch, or from that of the small tracheal vessels. ■ esjiult has, however, mentioned a fatal case, in which death arose from a mnd of the carotid. The arterial anastomosis of the isthmus of the thyroid »dy may, if this part be enlarged, occasion some difficulty in the perfbrm- ice of the operation ; but the main source of danger is unquestionably 0 vetufvs Heeding. Not only are the plexuses of veins of large size, more -rticnlarly where they cover the lower part of the trachea, but they become imen.sely gorged by the asphyxia that necessitates the operation. Hence, len they are wounded, the bleeding may be so abundant as scarcely to be ntrollable, and may very greatly retard the after-steps of the operation. VOL. II Y Y