ECZEMA OF THE NIFFLE-MILK-ABSCESS. 711 occurrence of a primary syphilitic sore communicated by an infant suffering from the congenital form of the disease must always be borne in mind. The Treatment is as follows. The child must be taken from the affected !l breast, both for its own sake and the mother’s, the milk being draAvn off by Iff means of a breast-pump or sucker. The general health must be attended to ; ^ tonics given ; the infant’s mouth examined for aphthm, Avhich, whether as .if cause or as effect, are common, and must be treated on ordinary medical prin- ciples. If the nipple be not fissured, it should bo covered with flexible collo- tfj} dion, or painted with an astringent; a solution of nitrate of silver, catechu, y 1 or taiiuin is the best. If it be fissured, a pointed stick of nitrate of silver ’ fljs must be applied to the bottom of the crack daily, or, if deep, its base may be divided by drawing a lancet along it. A nipple-shield, through Avhich the vjWhild can suck, will often be found useful in preventing a recm-rence after the fissure has been cured. Eczema of the Nipple.—The nipple and the areola are not uncommonly the seat of very chronic and obstinate eczema. The eruption may extend to the sun'ounding skin. The cause of this condition is not always evident, but in some cases it is the precursor of cancer of the breast. It not unfrequently attacks both sides. The Treatment is, as a rule, very unsatisfactory. The nipple must be carefully washed with tepid water. Glycerine of borax, boracic .acid ointment with one drachm of extract of belladonna to each ounce, car- bonate of lead ointment, and lead lotion may be tried, and often are of use. Painting the inflamed area occasionally with a strong solution of nitrate of silver may sometimes prove beneficial. Abscess of the Areola not unfrequently occurs in suckhng women, Avith the ordinaiy signs of local inflammation, terminating in circumscribed sup- puration. The Treatment consists in the application of Avarm belladonna or •lead lotion, and opening the abscess early. In doing this, care should be taken that the cut be made from the centre of the nipple towards the circum- ference of the areola, so as not to divide the lacteal ducts. Small follicular inflammations and abscesses, A^arying in size from a pin’s head to a cherry, are common in middle-aged Avomen, independently of lacta- tion. They often excite alann, and occasion some pain. They are usually readily relieA'ed by belladonna and glycerine or warm lead lotion, folloAA^ed by the touch of the point of a lancet. IxFLAiDLVTiON OF THE Breast, Avhich, as it generally occurs in nursing- mothers, and terminates in suppuration, is usually called Milk Abscess, may occur in three situations ; 1, in the Subcutaneous xireolar Tissue, Supra- a^mammary Abscess ; 2, in the Gland itself. Mammary Abscess ; and 3, in the Areolar Tissue betAA'een the Mammary Gland and the Pectoralis Major, sSubmammary Abscess. 1. Inflammation, foUewed by Abscess, of the Subcutaneous Areolar ^ ITissue of the Breast, though common during lactation, occurs more fre- quently than any other form of inflammation in this region at other periods of life, more particularly about the age of puberty. Its symptoms are those of simple acute inflammation, diflering in no Avay from abscess of this kind in other situations, except that it is ahvays distinctly circumscribed. 2. Inflammation of the Mammary Gland is the most common form met Avith. It arises almost ahvays in connection Avith lactation. Of 228 cases recorded by Xunn, Bryant, and Billroth, 181 occurred during suckling, 13 i: