SPECIAL llERNI/E. 8i8 femoral vessels ; but occasionally it may attain a considerable bulk, as large as the fist or a French roll. When large, this hernia rises up above Poupart’s ligament, and extends outwards in a direction parallel to it, so that it assumes an elongated shape; it is then usually somewhat -doughy and soft, even when strangulated : very difiereut from the excessively tense feel that it has Avhen small. In some rare cases the femoral hernia has been found lying external to the vessels, the mouth of the sac being between them and the iliac spine. In these circumstances strangulation cannot well occur, inasmuch as the mouth will be the widest part of the sac ; but, as Hesselbach has observed, if the fascia iliaca be torn by the pressure of the tumour, the rupture may be strangled in the aperture thus formed. Should an operation ever be required in such circumstances, it must be borne in mind that the circumflex ilii artery may be in some danger. As a femoral hernia passes out through the crural ring, it comes into very close relation to the femoral vein, being separated from the vessel merely by the septum, which divides the inner from the middle compartment of the femoral sheath. Were it not for this septum, as Rdser has observed, the femoral vein would be compressed by the tense hernial tumour protruded between it and Gimbernat’s ligament, and the inevitable consequence would be oedema of the whole lower extremity. As the hernia pushes down in the track of the crural canal, it can make no impression on the inner or on the posterior wall of the canal—both of which are unyielding ; but, pushing the anterior wall upwards, it drags upon the septum on the other side of the neck of the sac, renders this tense, and thus saves the femoral vein from, compression. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of femoral hernia is not always easy. When the hernia is large, and more particularly when it rises up above Poupart’s liga- ment, which some hernise, even of very moderate size, are apt to do, it might at first be mistaken for an inguinal rupture. The diagnosis, however, may usually be effected by ascertaining the relation that the neck of the sac has to Poupart’s ligament, the inguinal hernia being situated above, the femoral below this cord. When, however, a small femoral hernia in a fat man rises upwards, so as to lie over Poupart’s ligament, it resembles very closely an incomplete inguinal hernia ; but its characters may be determined by the passage of the finger up the inguinal- canal, which will be found to be fi’ee, and the hernia can be felt only through its posterior and inferior wall. In the female the finger cannot be passed up the canal, but the inguinal hernia will descend into the labium, and may thus be recognized from the femoral, which lies in the upper and inner part of the thigh. In both sexes the relations of the neck of the sac to the spinous process of the pubes, which can always be felt in the fattest subjects, are most important in a diagnostic point of view. In femoral hernia the spine is to the inner, in inguinal hernia to the outer side of the protrusion ; and, should a patient happen to be the subject of both inguinal and femoral hernia on the same side, the spine would be felt between the two. After reducing a femoral hernia, the finger can sometimes be pushed into the inferior aperture of the crural canal, when the situation and sharp outline of the falciform process will determine the nature of the opening through which the protrusion has occurred. The diseases occm’riug in the groin, with which femoral hernia may most