947 LITtlOTOMY—INSTRUMENTS REQ UIRED. I especiiilly noticed when we come to speak of lithotrity, it falls into an atonic ; ' condition, and then is apt to become rather largely dilated. The mucous ( membrane is commonly a good deal inflamed and irritated by the presence I of the calculus ; and the muscular coat becomes thickened and hypertro- (, phied, so as to give it a very fasciculated appearance. Sacculi occasionally j : form, containing sabulous matter and fetid pus or urine, and in some cases I lodging a concretion, which then constitutes an encysted calculus lying j: altogetlier outside the cavity of the bladder, with which it merely com- Imunicates by a very narrow aperture, as in Figs. 885 and 88(5, representing a case that was under my care, and which is fully described in the Journals for ]\Iarch, 1858. The kidneys are often congested, frequently in a state of chronic or subacute interstitial inflammation, and ultimately become the seat of such structural changes as are incompatible Avith life. When death occurs I as the consequence of stone, the patient usually sinks, AA'orn out by protracted ; 'Suttering and kidney-disease. LITHOTOMY. It is not my intention to enter into the general history of lithotomy, an operation that has been practised from the earliest ages ; nor to gWe a sketch of the gradual modifications that have at various times been introdneed, from the rude attempts of the Greek and Roman Surgeons to the barbarous and unscientific procedures adopted by the itinerant operators after the revival of letters. For all this, I would refer the reader to the classical works of Des- :;hamps and of .John Bell. The operation, as now generally practised in this ■country, is essentially that introduced by Cheselden, and modified more or less citiccording to the Auews of particular Surgeons. Though Surgeons generally lire agi*eed upon the great principles invoh'ed in it, they differ in their modes of L’canwing these out; thus the direction and extent of the incisions and the fe instruments employed have been much varied to suit the tastes and views of n jtjarticular operatoi*s. But, although I look upon Cheselden’s operation, as > modified and practised by Liston, as being on the whole the simplest and safest H I node of cnttiiig for stone as yet introduced, there can be no doubt that recourse I ruay occasionally be had Avith advantage to other methods instead of it. Indeed, i there is no operation that requires to be considered from so many and such i i lifferent points of A'ieAV as lithotomy. The size, shape, and position of the i tone, the age and constitution of the patient, all render it desirable, and » : ndeed necessary, to modify the method of operating. Hence, a Surgeon I hould not be too exclusively Avedded to one plan, but should adopt one or i ;>ther of the methods about to be described, according to the exigencies of the particular case before liim. ^ Instraments, &c.—The table for operating must be firm and of convenient 1^ 1* eight, so that Avhen the Surgeon sits on a rather Ioav stool the patient’s nates ' I MU be on a leA'el Avith his breast ; a feAv blankets doubled should be laid upon the table, and covered by a piece of mackintosh cloth hanging over the end ; :nd a tray of sawdust placed under it on the floor. The instruments necessarv re the following :—a pair of lithotomy-tapes, a sharp and probe-pointed ■jali)el, a staff, forceps, and scoops of various sizes, and a tube. To these Ti-iay be added a searcher, and a brass injecting syringe. ^ The tapes should Ix) of coarse flannel, about three yards long, by three inches road. 3 p 2 1