TREATMENT OF GOITRE. 569 When of the enlarged gland. These cysts may he single or innltiple. hen or of large size, as in Fig. (170, they usually contain clear serous fluid, multiple, they are tilled with colloid substance, or with a fluid that presents the ordinary characters of altered blood, l)oing dark, grumous, or like coffee-grounds, and have often cauliflower-like excrescences projecting into their interior. Fwlsating' Bronchocele is occasionally met Avith. The pulsation wliich is exceiitric and distensile, is synchronous with the heart’s action, and evidently due to the vascular character of the tumour itself. This form of bronchocele is sometimes conjoined with the cystic. When it is confined to one lobe only, care must be taken not to confound the beatings with those of carotid aneurism ; a mistake which I have known to occur. The diagnosis of the two affections has been adverted to at p. 172, Vol. II. Treatment.—The treatment of bronchocele must vary according to the size and character of the .V/ tumour, O ' and the constitutional condition associated with it. When Fig. 070. — Cy.st of Thyroid, containing clear Serous Fluid. small, and associated with anfemia, and of comparatively recent formation, it is best treated by improAung the general condition of the patient. This may be done in varions ways : by the administration of good food ; by change of air from a low and damp to an elevated and dry and healthy situation. The change to a higher, and drier, and more airy locality has been much insisted on by those Avho have studied the disease in those valleys of SAvitzerland in Avhich it is endemic ; and establishments have been erected several thousand feet above the level of the sea, on moimtain-tops, with the vieAv of curing patients thus affected. Guggenbiihl has been particu- larly successful in these endeavours. In toAAms, the patient, if liAung on the basement floor, should be moved to the upper storey, if possible, and should be encouraged in habits of outdoor rather than of sedentary or indoor occu- pations. Besides these hygienic measures, which are of the first importance, the disease may be treated medically by the administration of iron, especially the iodide, internally, and the external application of iodine or of iodide of lead ointment. Indeed, in the soft bronchocele occurring in aiifemic females, iron is of the utmost serAuce, and acts almost as a specific. In bronchoceles of large size, hard, and unconnected Avith ansemia, the chief reliance is to be placed on the fi’ee and continuous use of iodine internally as well as externally. The iodide of potassium is the best form in which to gh'e the iodine internally. The quantity of this medicine should be gradually increased, until from 20 to 30 gi’ains are giA^en three times a day, either alone, in milk, or in combination Avith some preparation of iron ; the iodide is pro- bably the best. But iron is very necessary in all the anosmic forms of the disease. Iodide of lead and compound iodine ointment may be used Avith adA'antage. It has been recommended by Mouat that the biniodide of mercury ointment (10 grs. to the ounce) should be Avell rubbed in for scA'oral days; and then, the tumour being covered Avith it, the patient should be exposed to the strong heat of a mid-day summer sun. This method of treat- ment, which is Siiid to liave been extremely successful in India, has not been tried in this country to a sufficient extent to enable an opinion to be formed of its merits. In some instances pressure has been of use, especially in con-