URETHRAL CALCULUS. 1019 must eviilently have iiriseii from some fragment of calculus having escaped detection and being lell behind, thus constituting a nucleus for a fi’esh forma- tion. Tlie fre(juency of the occurrence of secondary calculi after lithotrity has greatly diminished since the time of Civiale, and can no longer constitute an objection to that operation, yet it still occurs often enough to show the necessity of the Surgeon most carefully examining the bladder before he pronounces the patient cured : and even then watching him for some length of time, in order to meet a I’ecurrent calculus at its first formation, and to adopt means for its early removal. Lithotrity cannot therefore be said to be so complete a cure in all cases as lithotomy. Not only is recurrence of calculus more common after the former than after the latter operation, but it not uncommonly happens that patients who have been lithotrized successfully, and in whom no reciUTent calculus has formed, continue to sufter for a gTeat Jeugth of time afterwards from very distressing irritability of the bladder, ■which resists in the most obstinate manner all the ordinary methods of treat- • nient. This is not the case after lithotomy ; when a patient once recovers, ihis bladder usually regains its tone completely, and no trace of evil conse- -iueiices is left. Trecdmmt.—In the event of a secondary calculus forming, whether after lithotomy or lithotrity, either method may again be employed, according to f:he nature of the case. Most generally, the bladder may be cleared of the recurrent calculus by means of the lithotrite. If lithotomy have previously ■been performed, and it be thought proper again to have recourse to it, this may be done again in the usual way, thi’ough the cicatrix left by the former wound ; or the Surgeon, if ambidextrous, may adopt Liston’s advice to cut t through the right side of the perinmum on a staff with a groove to the left of its convexity. As this procedure, however, would entail the use of the left hand for cutting and extracting, most Surgeons would prefer either the opera- ttiou through the site of the old Avound, or, better still, the median operation. AVhatever procedure, hoAvever, may be adopted, it should be borne in mind t that the rectum may have become rather firmly adherent to the membranous portion of the urethra and the apex of the prostate, in consequence of the .contraction of the old cicatnx, and may thus be endangered. UREa?HRAL CALCULUS. Calculi are not unfrequently found impacted in the urethra, especially in children. Tliese are most commonly formed in the kidney, Avhence they pass into the bladder, and thence into the urethra, through Avhich they usually escape ; but in some instances they lodge in the latter channel, more specially at the bulb or in the navicular fossa. These calculi are commonly of the uric acid or oxalate of lime varieties ; they are generally round, but not .uncommonly elongated or spindle-shaped. Although most urethral calculi are undoubtedly renal in their origin, there can be little doubt that in some more rare cases they may be primarily fonned in the canal. They will then be found to bo phosphatic, usually consequent upon stricture, and perhaps of large size. In some cases these concretions are moulded in the j)rostatic and bulbous portions of the urethra, •l>eing elongated, rounded at one end, and pointed at the other. In other in- stances, again, they appear to be formed in a pouch that lies to the outside of