6io PLASTIC SUPiGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. 2. Separation of the Root of the Flap.—This may be done aljout a month after the flap has been fashioned, Avhen its vascularity, through its lateral adhesions, Avill be perfected. The division of the root is best done by passing a narrow-bladed bistoury under the twist, and cutting upwards towards the eyebrows, removing a Avedge-shaped portion of the soft parts, so as to make a smooth and proper bridge. 3. Formation of the Colnmna Nasi.—The addition of the columna is now all that is Avanted to make the nose complete. This must be made from the upper lip, perhaps at the same time Avhen the bridge is fashioned ; and it Fig. 695.—Patient before Ehinoplastic Operation. Fig. 696.—Same Patient some months after Operation. may be cut and fixed in the Avay that has been abfeady described in speaking of the restoration of this feature, the interior of the apex of the new nose haAnng been AA’ell pared to receive it. The colmnna must be well supported by means of a narrow strip of plaster passing from one cheek to the other, and usually requires a good deal of fashioning before it is perfect; indeed, this is the part of the operation that I have found always most troublesome, and requiring most attention. The neAV nose must continue to be supported from beneath, for some months after its formation, by plugs of lint or small gutta-percha tubes, as it Avill evince a great tendency to contract and to alter in its general outline and shape; becoming, if the Surgeon be not careful, either depressed or dumpy. The sensibility of the neAv nose is entirely destroyed for a time after the division of the bridge ; but it sloAvly returns from all sides, appearing first in the neighbourhood of the adhesions between it and the cheeks, then near the columna, next in the bridge, and thus the organ at last has its sensation restored; for this, hoAvever, seAnral months aauII usually be required, and the part in Avhich it returns last of all is its central portion. The annexed cuts (Figs. G95, G9()) giA^e a very faithful representation of a patient on AA'hom I operated, before and after the restoration of the lost organ. The success of the case Avill depend A’ery greatly upon the minute attention Avhich the Surgeon bestoAvs on the details of the operation, and on the care Avhich he takes in the after-treatment. During the operation, the chief points to be attended to are, that the flap be made of sufficient size, that all