DISEASES OF JOINTS. 324 The presence of an abnormal quantity of fluid in the joint is always | indicated by fluctuation and undulation and by the peculiar shape acquired j by the part. Thus in the knee, which is the most common seat of the ' affection, the patella will float, as it were, on the fluid. If the distension be not too great, by placing the finger on the knee-cap and pushing it shai-ply towards the femur it can be felt to sink through the fluid and strike on the bone beneath. This sign is of great importance, as it enables us to distinguish between simple synovitis with effusion and distension of the joint by soft gi’anulation-tissue in the early stages of white swelling. In order to elicit it the patient must be lying down with the muscles of the thigh perfectly relaxed. All the natural hollows about the knee are obhterated ; the distended pouches of the synovial membrane project distinctly on each side above the i patella, and the hollow on each side of the ligamentum patellae is obliterated : by the infrapatellar fat which is pushed downwards by the pressure of the fluid , in the joint. In the elbow there is a soft and fluctuating swelling on each ;■ side of the olecranon, extending above it on each side of the tendon of the . triceps which forms a depression in the middle line ; and in the shoulder there | is a general roundness and distension of the articulation. It is said that, in some cases, the distension of the joint has been so great that the synovial membrane has been ruptm’ed, and the fluid poured forth into the surrounding areolar tissue. In these cases, however, it is probable that some destructive change in the synovial membrane preceded its rupture. In more chronic cases ■ the ligaments may become relaxed, and spontaneous dislocation may take place. i (Yol. I. p. 638.) In some cases of chronic synovitis distinct cracTcling wiU be felt in the : interior of the joint, on laying the hand over the articulation whilst it is freely moved. This appears to me to be due to the existence of bands of fibrinous : exudation in the interior of the joint, through which the fluid is pressed by : the articular movements, and thus occasions the sensation which is met with j: under similar circumstances in enlargements of the bursee, and in fluid effusions j; in the sheaths of tendons. ! Terminations.—The termination of synovitis will depend mainly on its | cause. When simple and uncomplicated, arising as the result, perhaps, of !> rheumatic influences, it will in most cases terminate in complete resolution. ^ In other instances, however, as a consequence of inflammatory exudation, ^ warty vegetations or concretions may form within the joint, or bands stretch- ? ing across its interior or incorporated with its capsule, may occasion more or less permanent stiffness. Septic synovitis following a wound generally goes on i to suppuration within the joint with erosion or disintegration of the cartilage, v and eventually to complete disorganization of the interior of the articulation.;- The same happens in the puerperal and pysemic inflammations of joints; in^ which cases the morbid process commencing in the synovial membrane extends ^ to the cartilages, eventually destroying them. The chronic or subacute synovitis and hydrarthrosis usually terminate t favourably, although the joint is generally left in a weak, relaxed condition,» from which it may not recover for many months ; but occasionally, more par- > ticularly in strumous constitutions, the disease runs on to suppurative destruc-1 tion of the joint. This, however, is rare ; yet its occurrence, in some i instances, should make the Sm'geon careful not to confound the f fluctuation of serous accumulation with that of a pmmlent collection.I;