773 ,'iTRANGULATED llERXTA. I' fill f'f'' fit ■i i 1, ■iji of the protruded parts, ik -k i icoines strangiiluted. 'J'he other kind of straugiilation is most Ircquent in oiinger individuals ; in it the symptoms are more active, the howel becoming rotruded in consecpience of violent exertion, and undergoing rapid strangula- on, the tension of the parts not having been lessened by the previous long vistence of an irreducible hernia. Mkchanism of Strangulation.—Strangulation has been attributed either ) a spasmodic action of the walls of the aperture through which the hernia rotrudes, or to changes taking place in the protruded parts, subsequent to id occasioned by their constriction by the tissues external to them. The riuigiilation cannot, I think, ever be regarded with justice as of spasmodic laracter; the aperture in the abdominal wall, through which the hernia icapes, being tendinous or fibrous, and certainly not in any way contractile, lough the action of the abdominal muscles may undoubtedly increase the msion of its sides. The continued and permanent character of the strangu- tiou also, when once it has taken place, would discountenance this opinion ; lose forms of hernia, indeed, as the ventral, which occur in purely muscular ructures, are very rarely strangulated, and, Avhen they are so, the constriction . generally occasioned by the formation of dense adventitious bands upon or it bin the sac, and not by any muscular agency. Strangulation is characterized by congestioi duced by the constriction to Avhich they are -bjected; the mechanism being as follows, knuckle of intestine, or piece of omentum, suddenly protruded during an effort of some nd. This immediately becomes compressed the sides of the narrow aperture through hich it has escaped ; the return of its venous ood is consequently interfered with, and swelling ,id eedema rapidly ensue, culminating in stagnation the blood in it. If the constriction be excessively ^ht, the walls of the ring being very hard and ai-p, the part, that is so strangulated may be de- lved of its vitality in the course of a few hours. the strangulation be less severe, so that the rciilation is not entirely aiTested, the changes aracteristic of inflammation speedily supervene, i proportion as the congestion augments, the return of the protruded parts necessarily rendered more difficult by the increase of their swelling. Seat of Stricti're.—The stricture is very commonly situated outside the ck of the sac, in the tendinous or ligamentous structures surrounding it; •t nnfrequeiitly in the altered and thickened subserous areolar tissue. In her cases, and indeed with great frequency, it is met Avith in the neck of the t itself (Fig. TSb), which is naiTowed, elongated, and tubular ; or constricted ■ bands that are incorporated with it. More rarely it exists in the body of e .sac, which may have assumed an hour-glass shape. In some cases, it mid appear as if this particular shape Avere oAving to an old hernia having en pushed down by a I'ccent one above it; The stricture is sometimes, ough by no means frequently, met Avith inside the sac, consisting of bands adhesions stretching across this, or of the indurated edge of an aperture in e omentum through Avliich a portion of the gut has slipped. Fi? 7S5.—stricture in the Neck of the Sac, laid open.