884 DISEASES OE THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. confined by the adniinistratipn of a grain or two of o])iuni immediately after the operation. On the second day a dose of castor-oil may be administered, which will not only act upon the bowels, but bring away the ])iece of lint. The wound must then be lightly dressed from the bottom, and frequently bathed with boracic acid lotion, a piece of boracic acid lint juoistened with the lotion being applied externally. Care must be taken at the daily dressing, by the introduction of a probe, to prevent the l)ridging over of granulations. If the wound is slow in healing, red wash must be applied. Should it become foul and unhealthy, iodoform is often very useful. After the wound has com- pletely united, a notch will usually be left Ijy the side of the anus, which gives rise to some inconveuience for a time by the occasional involuntary discharge of a little intestinal mucus, and some flatus. This hapjieus especially in those cases in which the incision has been made anteriorly to the anus into the perinmum, and where incontinence of fieces may, for a time, be left. Should an inconvenient or dangerous amount of hemorrhage occur at the time of the operation, the wound should be plugged with salicylic or iodofonn wool, and a firm pad applied by means of a T^^^^^itlage. Should profuse bleeding, in consequence of the division of some of the hemoiThoidal vessels, come on a few hours after the operation, all coagula should be cleared away, the gut washed out with ice-cold water, and then securely plugged either with I a piece of compressed sponge, or with a lithotomy or oesophagus tube, sur- rounded by lint soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron, and pushed into the bottom of the sinuses that have been laid open. H.EMORRHOIDS OR PILES. By Haemorrhoids or Piles is meant a morbid condition of the blood- vessels of the anus and lower part of the rectum, especially of the veins of > the submucous or subcutaneous areolar tissue, giving rise to more or less i intumescence of the part, which may or may not be attended with a discharge i: of blood. Surgeons are commonly in the habit of classifying piles, according' as they bleed or not, into Open or Blind ; or, according as they spring from i above or below the verge of the anus, into Internal or External; the in-' ternal being always within the gut, the external habitually protruding out of I or around the anal aperture. The first may either bleed or not; the latter are| always blind. To this division into external and internal, B. Cooper has added) .' an intermediate variety, the Intero-External, which is partly within and) partly without the anus. These divisions are of much practical moment, as( , the treatment is very materially modified according as the hsemorrhoid i4 i situated above or below the anal verge. PREDiSPOSixa Causes.—We must look to the. peculiar arrangemeni of Vi4 ' veins of the rectum as directly predisposing to the occurrence of piles. Th(|' lower part of the rectum and the verge of the anus are composed of a plane oj i muscular fibre and a muco-cutaneous surface, with an intervening stratum o) ^. loose areolar tissue, in which a close inteilacement, or net-work, of tortiioii veins is situated. The blood, from this plexus of luemorrhoidal veins, find | its way into the general system through two distinct channels. By far tli greatest portion of it is carried into the inferior mesenteric vein, and thenc into the vena portaj, through the medium of the superior hmmorrhoidal veil which may be looked upon as the extreme radicle of the portal .system ; an| I