1079 SEQUENCES OF GONOlUilKEA. In many cases of goiion'lioeal retention, an old stricture complicates the clap. :^|rere the employment of energetic antiphlogistic measures and the use of the theter are indicated. ] Haemox^hage from the Urethra may occur either as the result of chordee, id consequent rupture of some blood-vessels of the corpus spongiosum, as the :>nsequence of attempts at passing the catheter, or as a kind of exudation om the mucous membi'ane. !Most commonly it may be aiTcsted by the |\i )plication of ice, and the employment of moderate local antiphlogistic li'l eatment. Should it be abundant, the introduction of a large gum-elastic (I itheter, and pressure by means of a bandage to the penis or perinaeum, will If ’rest it. Urethral or Peri-Urethral Abscess occasionally forms in gonorrhoea, is supposed to result from iiiflainmatioii culminating in sup])uration, taking lace in the one of the lacunae or glands of the mucous membrane. An oscess may form at any part of the urethra, but the two most common . tuatioiis are near the end of the penis and in the region of the bulb. It is ossible that in many cases the pus may be discharged into the urethra ivithout 'eing recognized ; but if the collection of pus reaches any size it points towards Me surface. In the neighbourhood of the glans it forms a rounded swelling, 'Sually projecting under or to one side of the fraenum. It is tender on rressure, and the parts round are swollen and oedematous. In this situation . should be opened as early as possible lest it should burst into the urethra, fter which, as the aperture is usually insufficient, a second opening will form n the surface, leaving a fistula, which is very troublesome to heal. AVhen the abscess forms in the region of the bulb, it forms a hard, tender, vvelhng in the perinaeum, constituting one of the varieties oiperiimal abscess. n this situation, also, if opened early by a free incision in the middle line, it 'ill be found to have no communication with the urethra, and will quickly - eal without leaving a fistula. If it be not opened in time, it may buiTow 'idely beneath the accelerator urinae, and the expansion from it covering the enis. Under these circumstances it may be felt both at the root of the penis rnd in the perinaeum, and there may be considerable swelling of the scrotum, 'he incision in such a case should be made behind the scrotum only. If left 00 long, a communication with the urethra may have taiken place, but r rovided the incision is made in the perinaeum only, it will heal without iifficulty. Sequences of Gonorrijcea.—The sequences, or more remote complications )f gonorrhoea, are partly local and partly constitutional. Amongst the local ee find more particularly Warts about the prepuce and glans or within the urethral orifice, which require to be treated by excision or caustics ; and itrictnre. the management of which is fully described elsewhere. In some cs, also, in consequence of extravasation of blood, or inflammatory exudation into the corpus spongiosum or the corpora cavernosa, limited and ■ocalized Induration and Thickening of the Penis may result, attended oy chordee, painful erections, and a permanent twist in the organ. In such ■‘X)nditions as these, an attempt may be made to produce absorption of the sffused mass, by the administration of small doses of bichloride of mercury, with the inunction of iodide of lead ointment. After the cure of a clap that has l)ecn of long continuance, the generative organs are often left in a /oeak and irrilahle state; the penis, scrotum, and