DISJ^ASES OF THE BREAST. 722 tissue. The presence of tlie cpithcliuiu-liiied spaces is not a mere accident of the <>TO'\vth hut an essential feature of it. Those tumours are therefore properly termed adenomata. The differences in anatomical structure coii’csjiond tolerably accurately \vitli the A'ariations in the clinical course of the growth. The more perlect is the development of the interstitial fibrous tissue, the slower is the growth of the tumour ; the more embryonic the tissue, the more rapid is its iDrogressand the -g-reater is the risk of its extending beyond its capsule, infiltrating neighbour- ing parts, and recurring in internal organs, in fact, running the course of a malignant sarcoma ; a termination which is, however, very rare in these cases. It not uncommonly happens that the tumour appears first as a small hard nodule, evidently with firm fibrous interstitial tissue, and may remain in this state for many years, scarcely increasing in size ; but after middle life it may suddenly take on rapid growth, and when removed its interstitial substance will probably consist of spindle-cells, or of some even more embryonic form of tissue. The brief anatomical sketch above given will sufficiently explain the various names bestowed upon this class of tumours. When the tumour is of slow growth and firm, it is often called the Chronic Mammary Tumour, the name originally given it by Sir Astley Cooper. Abernethy, from the resemblance ofj the section in some cases to that of the pancreas, termed it the Pancreatic Sarcoma. Vidal termed it partial or loibular hypertrophy of the mamma. In this country it is most commonly termed the Simple Adenoma. The term Adeno-fiProma is, however, that which most closely describes its anatomica structure, and is undoubtedly the best (Vol. I., p. 995, Fig. 383). When th interstitial tissue is either embryonic or undergoing one of the prima modifications which embryonic tissue manifests in its development into fibro tissue, in other words, when it corresponds to the structure characteristic o; a sarcoma, the tumour is called an Adeno-sarcoma (Vol. I., jd. 995, Fig. 384) and when stellate cells are found, and the tumour yields on squeezing a abundant glairy mucous fluid, it is often termed Adeno-myxo-sarcoma When cysts form a marked feature in the gTowth, it is commonly termed Cysto-sarcoma of the mamma, but other terms are also applied to it. Thu: Brodie termed it the Sero-cystic so/rcoma, and Paget suggested the name o GlanchdcLr 2Jroliferous cysts. The term Cysto-sarcoma originally suggested b;; .1. Midler is so generally adopted, that it is, perhaps, most convenient t(| adhere to it for clinical purposes, therefore, these three fonns may b| described ; the Adeno-fibroma, Adeno-sarcoma, and Cysto-sarcoma, remenu bering, as Billroth says, that from a purely anatomical point of view, th| difference between these forms is very slight, and that we should be perfcctl justified in considering the Adeno-fibroma as the initial stage of the oth forms. The Adeno-fibroma is the most common simple tumour of the breast, is often attributed to blows, squeezes, or lacteal irritation, and is almo; invariably met with in young women under thirty years of age; usually i women otherwise healthy. It is often associated with the hysterical ten perament, and connected with, if not dependent on, uterine irritation au] sexual excitement of an irregular kind. This tumour is generally of smaj size when first perceived, and may remain stationary for many years; or may slowly increase, and at last attain a considerable bulk, hi other cases