TRACHEOTOMY IX MEMBRAXOVS LARYXGITIS. 683 1 I i I I I i j fl I 'Hi 4 ir 4 theria ” is applied to it by cfaumoii consent. ^leinbranons laryng’itis, from whatever cause arising, is a most fatal disease in childhood, at least 'JO per cent, of those attacked dying, and a considerable proportion of the minority that escape owing their lives to the performance of tracheotomy. In acute catarrhal laryngitis, unattended by membranous e.xudation, tracheotomy is scarcely ever needed, the disease yielding to milder methods of treatment. The question as to whether the windpipe should be opened in membranous laryngitis has been much discussed. AVere the disease limited to the larynx, and did death result from simple laryngeal obstruction, there could scarcely have arisen any question as the propriety of performing the operation. But in the great majority of cases of all kinds, and in all those of zymotic origin, there are two distinct sources of danger :—1, that arising from asphyxia dependent on laryngeal obstruction ; and 2, that which is due to the extension of inflammation below the larynx into the bronchi and lungs. By tracheo- tomy we can doubtless remo^'c so much of the danger as arises from the laryngeal obstruction ; but we cannot remove that which is dependent on the often concomitant broncho-pneumonia. In fact, the question as to the per- formance of tracheotomy in these cases must be answered by the ainomit of laryngeal obstruction and the extent of pulmonary implication. If the child be in danger of death from laryngeal obstruction and spasm, timely tracheo- tomy Avill undoubtedly rescue it from this immediate danger, and will be a proi>er operation ; but if extensive broncho-pneumonia already exist, it will be worse than useless, and should on no account be practised. In cases in which the disease is evidently true diphtheria, and these undoubtedly form the vast majority, there is yet another danger. The windpipe may be opened, and the immediate occurrence of death from asphyxia Avarded off', but the zymotic disease remains and runs its course, the patient ultimately, in a large proportion of cases, dying of exhaustion or of the sequelae of the disease. Even though the relief afforded by operation be only temporary in the majority of cases, yet it is obviously proper Avhere the danger from laryngeal asphyxia is imminent, that the Surgeon sliould rescue the patient from instant peril, and give him his only chance of prolonging or preserving life by open- ing the windpipe. It has been veiy justly observed by Sir Jenner that by opening the windpipe in these cases, we save the patient from so ten’ible a death as that by asphyxia; and, even if life be ultimately extinguished by the disease, temporary ease Avill have been afforded, and death Avill occur in a less distressing manner; and that, if only one life in a hundred could in this way be saved, Ave should be justified in having recourse to the operation. Sir AV. .lenner has made the important obseiwation, that if the larynx be not in- vaded by the end of the first Aveek of diphtheria, so as to require the Avindpipe to be oixjned, laryngeal obstruction rarely if ever occurs. I have frequently performed the operation myself, though rarely Avith ulti- mate success, and tliis I believe is the general experience of other Surgeons. The operation Avas strongly advocated in France, more particularly by Trous- sejui, many years ago, when it Avas regarded less favourably in this country. Hut even in Baris it Avas not a very successful procedure ; thus it appears that, at the Hospital for Sick Children in that city, the operation Avas performed in 21 o cases in five years, and that of these only 47 Avere cured. Unless avc