170 SPECIAL ANEUlilSMS. the coats ofilie vessel. In Holmes’ tahlc of o37 aneurisms, 11 were of the i common carotid, 10 hcinfjf spontaneous, and 1 traumatic. Three of the former were in women. This aneurism is also reinarkable as occuri-ing at earlier stages than most others ; thus, Hodgson has seen it in a girl of ten ; Bykes, of Philadelphia, in one of eighteen ; C. Heath, in a woman aged twenty-three (external carotid), who was suffering from extensive disease of the cardiac valves. The right carotid is much more commonly affected than the left, and the upper portion of the vessel than the lower ; indeed, the bifurcation is the most common seat of aneurismal dilatation. The root of the right carotid not uncommonly is dilated ; but I have never seen or heard of a case in which the left carotid, before emerging from the chest, has been affected. Symptoms.—A carotid aneurism in the early stage presents itself as a small, ; ovoid, smooth tumour, with distinct pulsation and bruit, and a weU-circum- 1 scribed outline. It is commonly soft and compressible, diminishing in size on pressure, and expanding again with the usual aneurismal dilatation. As it j increases in size, it becomes more solid, occasions shooting pains in the head 1 and neck, and, by its pressure on the pharynx, oesophagus, and larynx, produces | difficulty in deglutition and respiration : sometimes the salivary glands are j much irritated. After a time, the cerebral circulation becomes interfered with, giving rise to giddiness, impaired \ision of the corresponding eye, noises hi the i ear, and a tendency to stupor. These symptoms may be owing to compression of the jugular, to difficulty in the transmission of the blood through the tumour, or to irritation of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The size that these aneurisms may attain varies greatly : usually they are confined to ■ the space under the angle of the jaw, but not unfi’equently they occupy the ; ■;. gTeater part of the side of the neck. If they be allowed to increase without interference, death may happen, either by rupture 1: ■ externally, or into the pharynx or oesophagus ; '; by asphyxia, from pressure on the larynx or re- current nerve ; or by starvation from compres- ■ i sion of the oesophagus. Aneiu’isms of the carotid are usually of slow j v growth, and may sometimes exist for a consider- ; ! able number of years without giving rise to . i any special inconvenience ; this is more pai'ti- ; ■; 1 cuiarly the case when they are seated at the / J bifurcation of the artery. I have, however, seen a spontaneous aneurism in this situation '' 1 attain the size of a small orange in a few weeks. When at the root of the neck, they are more • likely to be attended by injurious pressure s i effects at an early period. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of carotid aneu- h« rism is without doubt more difficult than that of 'I any other form of external aueinism : the best proof that this is so, may be found in the fact |:'- that, of the cases in which the carotid artery has been ligatured for supposed - aneurism of it or its branches, in several instances no such disease existe . solid cysts, or other tumours of the neck having been mistaken foi aneuiism, jTi and this by Burgeons of great and acknowledged repute. j-