6 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. then nsually assumes the ulcerative form, and may lead to extensive destruction of the mucous membrane. Sex and Age.—Lupus vulgaris occurs almost with equal frc([uency in the two sexes. It begins most commonly in early life, “ rarely Ijeforc the third year and almost never after puberty ” (Kaposi). ComiMcations.—Beyond the deformity caused by the contraction of the scars, the disease itself causes no serious consequences. As a rule it in no way affects the general health. Erysipelas not uncoimnonly attacks the diseased surface, and cases have been recorded in which epithelioma has arisen from the scars. Causes.—Until recently it was universally assumed that lupus owed its origin to a scrofulous taint in the constitution, and possibly sometimes to inherited syphilis ; but at the present time most authorities are agreed that although both these views may be true of some cases, yet in the great majority no evidence is forthcoming to justify them. The disease is not hereditary and is not communicable. Prognosis.—Lupus is characterized by its slow course, and its tendency to relapse after apparent arrest; it is, however, never directly fatal. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is not always easy, the disease being especially apt to be confounded with some forms of impetigo, with tertiary syphilitic ulcerations, with rodent ulcer and with cancer. From impetigo it may be distinguished by the absence of pustules, and of the thick gummy crusts characteristic of that affection, as well as by the less extent of surface impli- cated. From tertiary syphilitic ulcerations, especially from softening cutaneous gummata, it is often very difficult to distinguish it. The history of the disease, the age of the patient at the time of invasion, and the more rapid progress of the syphilitic affection will usually enable the Surgeon to make a correct diagnosis. From squamous epithelioma, it is usually distinguished with ease ; in lupus the tubercles are numerous, and there are many centres of ulceration, the glands are seldom enlarged, and the disease commences in early life ; in cancer the primary disease is single, the glands are early affected, the disease commences after middle life. In lupus the ulcer is flat, with sharply-cut edges ; in cancer it is rugged and irregular, with hard, elevated and everted edges. The diagnosis from rodent ulcer, will be given with that disease. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment of lupus was formerly considered of much importance. Cod-liver oil, the iodides of potassium, mercury, and arsenic, either alone or combined with various other drugs have been credited with a curative, or at least a beneflcial influence on the disease. At the present time when, by more extended clinical observation, simple scrofu- lous sores and tertiary syphilitic ulcerations have been clearly distinguished from true lupus, the efficacy of drugs in the treatment of the disease has been found to be much less than was once supposed. Kaposi states that no drug exerts any deflnite specific influence on the progress of the disease. StiU, as lupus fr’equently occurs in patients who are in feeble health, anminic or scrofulous, constitutional treatment must on no account be neglected ; for, although drugs may exert no specific influence, it is evident that by improving the general health they Avill promote the healiug of the ulcers and so tend to diminish the severity of the disease. The diet should be carefully regulated and nutritious, and general hygienic conditions must be attended to.