S8o DISEASES OF TJIE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. coats of the bowel till it reaches the amis ; licre it passes out heneatli the skin and forms a small rounded swelling- at tlie margin of the anus. If unrelieved it may burrow still further in the subcutaneous tissue. The ]ius in this case lies superficial to the sphincter. Tliese abscesses may be acute or chronic; when chronic they arc frequently tubercular, advancing slowly and containing thick curdy pus. ddiey burst usually both internally and externally, and are perhaps the most common cause of the ordinary fistula in ano. By early opening and dressing with wet boracic acid lint and frequent batliing Avith a concentrated solution of boracic acid they can sometimes be got to heal Avithout leaving a fistula. If they are tubercular this seldom happens, and the best treatment is to lay them thoroughly open into the boAvel, to scrape the surface well Avith a sharp spoon, and to dress them with iodoform ointment. Fistula in Ano.—The sinus left by the contraction of the caAuty of an ischio-rectal or anal abscess constitutes a fistula in ano ; an affection that has attracted a good deal of attention from the frequency of its occurrence, and from the difficulty of curing it Avithout having recourse to operation. Extent.—When following an anal abscess the fistula is A'^ery limited, being merely the sinus left in the submucous areolar tissue of the anus after the burst- ing of the superficial collection of pus in this situation, extending to a short distance up the gut inside the sphincter. This form of fistula constitutes a kind of spurious A-ariety of the disease ; for the true fistula in ano is outside the sphincter in the surrounding areolar tissue, extending always as high as the upper margin of that muscle, and frequently stretching to a con- siderable distance up the side of the gut. Most frequently the lower and external aperture of the fistula is single, and is situated by the side of the anus in the ischio-rectal fossa, just beyond the sphincter ; but not unffequently the aperture is m the perinmum, or posteriorly in the coccygeal region. Occasionally there is a fistulous opening on each side of the gut; or several openings may exist, and then sinuses extend from these upwards and outwards to a considerable distance, undermining the integuments of the perimeum about the buttocks, even stretching away tOAvards the trochanters, and open- ing at a great distance from the bowel. These extensive fistulie and sinuses are frequently connected with stricture of the gut ; but they may occur Avith- out this in old and neglected cases of the simple disease. The fistulie are usually oblique, but straight in their direction from a point half an inch or an inch fi’om the anal aperture, rumiing upwards to above the sphincter. In some cases they are tortuous ; and, occasionally, Avhen opening at a distance from the gut, and extensively undermining the integuments, they are angular, havung, as it were, an elbow at that point where the supeihcial sinus meets the deep fistula. This peculiarity Avill preA-ent the passage of a probe through their AAdiole length until the external sinus has been slit up, and the commencement of the deep fissure reached, and may lead to the supposition of the fistula being more superficial than it in reality is. Varieties.—Fistula in ano is said to be Complete when it communicates by one end Avith the interior of the rectum, and opens by the othei’ upon the external surface. It is said to be Incomplete Avhen it has only one aiierturo. whether that be external or internal. Complete Fistula is the most common form. It probably arises in tlic majority of cases from some source of irritation seated Avithin the boAvel, by Avhich the mucous membrane of the rectum has been perforated, and an abscess ( i t i I ft 11 h i t > I :