51 CAUSES OF THROMBOSIS. on the damaged part just as it would be on a piece of wire introduced into the vein. Veins are occasionally penetrated by foreign bodies, as when a ligature is accidentally passed through a vein in ligaturing a contiguous artery. Under these circumstances a clot will quickly form upon the foreign body. h. Injlammation.—Tt has already been pointed out in the Chapter on Tn- flammation that the most essential feature of the process is a diminished vitality of the affected part to a degree short of actual death. If the inflammation is sufficiently intense the wall of an inflamed vein behaves towards the contained blood as if it were dead matter, and coagulation consequently takes place. Thrombosis thus forms a marked feature of all forms of phlebitis. The causes of inflammation of veins will be described later on (see Phlebitis). c. Degeneration.—Degeneration of the coats is less marked in the veins than in the arteries. In varicose veins, the middle coat is greatly thickened by the growth of fibroid tissue, and calcareous plates are sometimes met with in it; but the endothelial lining is usually intact, and consequently thrombosis comparatively rarely takes place as a consequence of this alone. 2. Altered conditions of the blood.—The exact nature of the changes of the blood that predispose to thrombosis is very imperfectly known. The experi- ments before alluded to show that an excess of free ferment in the blood may act as a powerful predisposing cause, or even the sole cause of coagulation. In septiemmia, pyaemia, and many other acute febrile diseases, there is con- siderable destruction of corpuscles, and very probably in this way ferment is liberated, and it is well known that thrombosis is common in these affections. The mere excess of white corpuscles, such as is observed in leucocythmmia, does not seem to predispose in any great degree to thrombosis. Koch has obsen’ed, in pyaemia experimentally induced in animals, thrombosis of small vessels apparently originating in the plugging of the channel by microscopic organisms, and possibly some such condition may be concerned in some cases of venous thrombosis. 3. Retardation of the bloodstream.—Perfect rest of the blood when with- di-a\vTi from the body delays coagulation, and free movement hastens it. It is impossible, therefore, to suppose that retardation or aiTest of the flow Ciin act directly as a cause of thrombosis. Nothing, however, is more certain than that it does form one of the most important causes of coagulation in the living vessels. It may act in various ways. First, if the arrest of the circulation be complete and of sufficient duration, the vitality of the part will suffer until the vessels come to act as foreign bodies and coagulation takes place. Secondly, if a part of the vein is already diseased or injured the retardation of the blood-stream will favour the adhesion of the white corpuscles to the unhealthy surface, which is the first step in thrombosis when the blood is still moving. Thirdly, if the blood stagnate for a sufficient time the white corpuscles may perish from waut of oxygen and disintegi’ate, thus liberating the ferment and inducing coagulation. Lastly, it is possible that the nutrition of the endothelium may suffer from arrest of the flow of blood through the vessel even when the circulation through the surrounding tissues is sufficiently active to maintain their vitality. Retardation or arrest of the blood-stream may arise {a) from diminished vis a tergo. This may l)e due to want of power in the heart from old age, ba<l nourishment, exhausting fevers, or from shock or loss of blood from injury