NATURE AND CAUSES OF ATHEROMA. 89 ' or smaller arteries, or intermittent, such as occurs during violent exertion, in \ which, while the heart is heating Ibrcibly, the I’esistance to the circulation is 1 increased hy the contraction of the muscles. Moxon has brought forward 1 abundant evidence in proof of this theory. He points out that atheroma [ occui’s more constantly and at an earlier period in males than in females, and i that when extensive atheroma is met with in women, it will usually be found j, that they have been engaged in hard manual labour. In men, the most Fig. 43C.—Atheroma of Aorta, e, elastic lamina ; vi, midflle coat; ?, internal coat; /, the new growth undergoing fatty degeneration. marked examples are met with in those whose occupations have involved violent physical exertion. In wasting diseases, in which the quantity of blood is diminished and the arterial tension reduced, atheroma is seldom met with, and in the pulmonary arteries, in which the pressure is greatly less than in the systemic vessels, chronic endarteritis is rare, being observed only in those cases in which the right heart is hypertrophied in consequence of chronic bronchitis and emphysema, or obstruction at the mitral oritice. The earliest patches of atlieroma are moreover situated in the parts exposed to the greatest strain, as in the arch of the aorta, and at the points at which large branches are given off or a trunk bifurcates. It is common also to find the disease more advanced in those situations in which the artery is placed in close jiroximity to a bone, as in the femoral at the brim of the pelvis. The'fact that chronic endarteritis is always more marked in the vessels of the lower limb than in tliosc of the upixir may also be explained by the pressure being greater in the most dependent parts while the body is in the erect position. Among the constitutional affections which predispose most powerfully to the development of atheroma is chronic Bright’s disease, with the granular con- tracted kidney. Gull and Sutton have demonstrated that this disease is associated witli a general change in the smaller arteries and capillaries to which they have given the name of arlerio-capilhrj/JiWosis. It is characterized by a fibroid thickening of the extei'iial coat of the smaller arteries. In the