858 TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. collections of pus usually iii the alxlominal wall, which have discharged at the navel. They arc best treated by enlarging the ojjening and inserting a drainage-tube. I cannot close this chapter without an expression of admiration at the great ad\'ance that has of late years been elfectcd in all that relates to the treatment of diseases of the abdominal and pelvic viscera by surgical operation, and a recognition of the merits of those Surgeons Avho boldly and skilfully have led the advance in this department of our art, and of the vast importance of the results thus achieved by them. But Avhilst thus freely recording my admiration for the successes that have been secured, I must add a few words of caution to aspirants for distinction in this great field of practice. I Avould venture to remind them that an operation is not necessarily justifiable because it is practicable—that every act of operative audacity is not a triumph of sound and legitimate surgery—and that a patient’s life may possibly be jjrolonged on conditions less tolerable than death. TXJMOUKS OF THE GROIN. Tumours of various kinds may develope primarily in the groin, or descend into it from the abdomen. They are of the following kinds:—1. Enlargement of the Lymphatic Grlands. 2. Abscess in or around those glands. 3. Abscess descending into the groin from the abdomen—Psoas, Iliac, Pericrecal, Perine- phritic, &c. 4. Yarix of the Saphena Vein at its entrance into the femoral, 5, Aneurisms of all kinds. G. Osteo-Aneurisms. 7. Cystic Tumours, bursal, and developing in the muscular structures. 8. Simple Solid Tumours, as fatty, fibrous, sarcomatous, or lymphadenomatous. 9. Malignant Tumours, primarily developing in the soft structures in this region, extending into it from the bones, or secondarily from contamination of the glands. 10. HerniEe of different kinds—inguinal, femoral, and obturator. Diagnosis.—In effecting the diagnosis of these various tmnom-s, we must first distinguish the pulsating from those that do not pulsate. The Pulsating Tumours must either be aneurisms, osteo-anemlsms, or soft sarcomata or abscesses with communicated pulsation. The diagnosis of these different forms of disease has already been so fully given at pages 114 and 321, Vol. II., that I need not enter upon it here. The Non-Pulsating Tumours are to be divided into two great classes, viz., the Reducible and the Irreducible. The Reducible Tumours of the groin are either hernia, vailx of the saphena vein, or abdominal abscess presenting under Poupart’s ligament. The diagnosis of these different conditions is given at pp. 114, 321, Yol. II. These all have an impulse communicated to them in coughing. The Irreducible Tumours of the groin have further to be divided into those that contain Fluid and those that are Solid. The irreducible tumours containing Fluid are either abscesses in or around the lymphatic glands, or cystic growths of various kinds. The diagnosis here is easy : the irregular hardened outline of glandular abscess, its rapid develop- ment, and softening from a previously indurated state, Avill distinguish it from the tense, clearly-defined outline, smooth and elastic feel of the slowly develop- ing and very chronic cystic growth. In irreducible hernia the impulse ou coughing, the gurgling, and other peculiar signs characteristic of that disetise, will prevent the possibility of error in diagnosis.