I 20 ANEURISM. shortly afterwards, from tlie disturbance of circulation consequent upon the necessary surgical procedures. There is not a more interesting chapter in the liistory of Operative Surgeiy than that which records the changes that have taken place and the progress that has been made in the treatment of aneurism. The older Surgeons were either afraid to meddle at all witli an aneurism, and amputated the limb affected by it, or tried to restrain the progress of the disease by tight bandaging and direct pressure upon the tumour, or had recourse to the troublesome, difhcult, and dangerous operation of laying open the sac and ligaturing or applying the actual cautery or styptics to the diseased artery on each side of the opening in it. In 1785, John Hunter substituted for the barbarous and dangeroiLS methods of treating aneurism that had hitherto been adopted, the simpler and more scientific procedure of ligaturing the artery in a distant part of its course, above the sac, and thus directly cutting off the influx of blood into the aneurism. This operation undoubtedly constituted one of the greatest and most direct advances in Surgery that has ever been made by the single act of one man, and the “Hunterian Operation” continued for more than half a century as almost the sole method of treating this formidable disease, when situated on an artery to which the operation was applicable. It was not until 1841-42 that the Dublin Surgeons, distinguished as they ever have been by their practical skill as much as by their scientific devotion to their art, inaugurated a new era in the treatment of this disease. For they found in practice, and they demonstrated by an elaborate pathological investi- gation and by a surgical argument, as convincing as it was exhaustive, that the coagulation of the blood by which an aneurismal sac is occluded and the disease cured, may as readily take place when the current of blood fi*om the artery into the sac is interrupted by compression, as when it is arrested by the ligature of the vessel. And they established triumphantly this great fact, that wherever the artery could be reached so as to admit of compression between the sac and the heart, the tying the vessel was no longer the only hope of cure in this formidable disease. But the treatment of aneurism was destined to be still farther simplified, when Yanzetti showed that, by discarding all instruments and by the simple pressure of the finger on the feeding artery, a coagulum might be formed, on the production of which in the sac the cure of the aneurism essentially depends. And in addition to this, the fact was established, that in some cases adequate compression of the vessel and sac might be effected by simple flexion of the limb. Thus, then, we have had a continuous and progressive process of simplification in the treatment of aneurism, as it has been proved that instrumental compression may be substituted for the ligature, that pressure with the finger or flexion of the limb suffices for the deposition of that coagulum on which the cure of the disease depends ; and, still more recently, the sphere of the applicability of compression has been greatly extended by conducting it during prolonged anaesthesia. Another subsidiaiy means of treatment, in the management of some of the more intractable forms of aneurism, is electro-puncture, by which, as Cinisclli and others have shown, partial consolidation of the contents of an aneurism may be effected so as to retard the progress of the disease, if not to cure it radically.