785 HERXIOTOMY—OPENING THE SAG. I: eel, together with the absence of the peculiar tension that is characteristic of he Siic, will enable him to recognize the real state of things. In other cases, i may happen that the sac is so thin, and the superficial structures are so little ondensed, that the Surgeon lays it open in the earlier incisions before he hinks he has reached it. In these circumstances a portion of the intestine ibrotruding might be mistaken for the sac. This dangerous error may be voided by observing the peculiarly smooth and highly polished appearance ••resented by the dark and congested gut, the absence of arborescent vessels, and i he non-existence of any adhesions between its deeper portions and the tissues pon which it lies. If the sac be prematurely opened, the escape of fluid Avill idicate this ; and if omentum protrude, the granular appearance and peculiar ; -*el of this tissue will at once cause its recognition. I; Opening the Sac.—The sac, having been exposed, must be carefully ),|i pened ; this should be done towards its anterior aspect; and, if it be a small 41-ue, at its lower part. It may best be done, .if the sac be not very tense, by »|i;3izing a portion of it between the finger and thumb, and thus feeling that no itestine is included ; a small portion of it is then pinched up by the forceps, : kud an opening is made into it by cutting upon their points Avith the edge of a -le scalpel laid horizontally. If the sac be A^ery tense, it cannot be pinched up d i this way, and then it may best be opened by introducing the point of a fine ^ iuok very cautiously into its substance, raising up a portion of it in this Avay, } Mid then making an aperture into it. There is little risk of Avounding the gut ii i doing this ; for the tension of the sac arises from the effusion of fluid ito it, which will be interposed betAveen it and the gut. In these cases, the uid sometimes squirts out in a full jet, and occasionally in a very considerable uantity. I ha\'e seen at least a pint of slightly bloody serum escape on open- .ig the sac of an old inguinal hernia Avhich had become strangulated. Most [. •equently, hoAve\’er, there is not more than fi’om half an ounce to an ounce ; and iometimes the quantity is considerably less than this. Sir James Paget very ft. isely attaches great importance to the character and appearance of the fluid in r hernial sac; if this fluid be clear and transparent, of a yelloAV tint like serum. Fig. 788.—Broad and narrow Director on ^^liich the Sac may he divided. is a good sign, as probably no great amount of congestion has taken place. ’ reddened by extravasation of blood, it is an evidence of increased congestion; id the deeper the discoloration, the browner, the more muddy the fluid, the :eater probably has been the change induced in the strangled parts by the ingestion or inflammation resulting from the stricture. In some instances »rcely any fluid exists ; and then it becomes necessary to proceed with extreme mtion in opening the sac, as the gut or omentum is applied closely to its ner wall. In such cases as these the sac is not unfrequently sufficiently anslucent to enable the Surgeon to see its contents through it: and he lonld then open it opposite to the omentum, or to any small mass of fat hich he may obseiwe shining through it. The opening, Avhen once made •to the sac, may be extended liy the introduction of a broad director -^’ig. 788), upon which it is to be slit up to a sufficient extent to alloAV the • :amination of its contents. VOL. II. 3 E