OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF VARIX. 63 ut once obliterated ; uiul if tliis cannot be done, be should be wained and told that if bleeding comes on he has nothing to fear, if he lies on his back and elevates his leg against some convenient object nearly to a right angle A\itli his body, till assistance can be obtained. The application ot a fingei to the bleeding spot ^Yonld immediately arrest the ha3inorrhage. When death takes place, it is while the patient is foolishly rnnning about to seek assistance, the bleeding coming from above, not from beloA\ the opening. In certain circumstances, it becomes necessary to change the palliative for a Curative plan. This is especially requisite in the following three conditions: 1 if the varix be so large as to produce much inconvenience, or to give rise to severe pain by its pressure on the nerves in its neighbourhood ; 2, if a varicose vein have burst, or be on the point of giving way ; or, 8, if an ulcer dependent on its existence will not heal. Various plans of curative treatment have been recommended ; most of which have for their object the obliteration of the vein at one point by exciting inflammation there, and thus causing it to be filled by a thrombus which will extend as far as the next branch on each side. Finally, the vein becomes obliterated and reduced to a fibrous cord, ks, the treatment involves the artificial excitation of phlebitis and thrombosis, there is necessarily some little risk of its assuming a spreading form with softening of the clot and subsequent pymmia. This however could occur only if septic inflammation were set up round the vein as a consequence of the womid made in the operation, or if the patient at the time of the operation was suffering from some serious general disease. By a little caution, there- fore, such accidents can almost certainly be prevented. By these means the trunk of a varicose vein and the larger masses of varix may be occluded. But can the disease be cured by the local obliteration of the vein ? To this question, I have no hesitation in answering in the negative. Though the trunk be obliterated, a collateral venous circulation is set up, which is very apt in the course of a few months to take on a varicose condi- tion, and thus to cause a return of the disease. But, though the cure be not radical, much benefit may often be effected by removing varicose knots that occasion pain or inconvenience, by enabling an ulcer to cicatrize, or by occlud- ing a vein from which haemorrhage has occurred or is threatening to occur. Various plans for obliterating the veins have been recommended. They resolve themselves into five principal heads of treatment. 1. Division of the Vein has been done by a subcutaneous incision followed by the application of a compress and bandage. Excision of a portion of the vein Ijetween two ligatures is a most efficient mode of treatment, and can be sjifely undertaken if any efficient mode of antiseptic treatment be adopted in the treatment of the wound. AVithout this, it is not unattended by danger of septic changes in the thrombus followed by pyaemia. It is conveniently done by making a small longitudinal wound ,about one inch long, in which the vein may be exposed. Two ligatures either of prepared catgut or carbolised silk may then be applied, and the piece of vein between them cut out with 8Ci.S80I*8. 2. It has been recommended by Mayo, Seutin, Bonnet, and others, to excite inflammation in the vein by producing a series of deep eschars or issues in the skin, covering it by the application of a caustic, but such treatment has, very properly, been long abandoned. 3. Coagulation of the blood in the vein by electrolysis has also been recoin-