TREATMENT BY LIGATURE—PROXIMAL. 123 a. i,i:mmediato effect, on drawing tlie ligature tiglit, consists in a cessation of pul- {fS.jation and bruit in the tuinuur, which at the same time subsides, becoming I .wtially emptied of its blood. The supply of blood to the limb being in a |g?i’eat measure cut off, it becomes numb and cold, with a diminution of muscular I'oower. The more remote effects consist in an increase of § he activity of the collateral circulation, by which the vitality I )f the limb is maintained. At the same time, and, indeed, n consequence of this, the temperature of the limb often .ises, until it becomes higher than that of its fellow. i[ The consolidation of the aneurismal tumour begins as 1-30011 as the ligature is applied, and is usually completed in a § :ew days, by changes taking place within it similar to those | :hat occur in the spontaneous cure of the disease. This important change is effected by the gradual deposit of strati- ided ffbrine in concentric layers within the sac, and occasion- I lily by the sudden coagulation of its contents. For the cure |!,i .0 be accomplished by the deposit of laminated fibrine, it is l iecessary that, though the direct flow of blood through the ;umour be arrested by the ligature of the main trunk, some ||i;hould yet be carried into it by collateral channels. This is 41 condition very favourable to the success of the ligature ; i>:br, if it happen that all the flow of blood through the .l .nimour is an’ested, coagulation of that which happens to be > jontained in it will ensue, and a soft yielding clot be formed, vhich is more likely to lead to unfavourable results than the lirm products of slow coagulation. It is of importance to I )l:>serve, that the proper consolidation of the aneurismal f tMimour, by the deposit of laminated fibrine, will occur even hough a veiy considerable quantity of blood continue to ilow through it. In the Museum of University College there •s an e.xceedingly interesting preparation that illustrates this X)int. It is one in which Sir Charles Bell ligatured the moral artery for popliteal aneurism. The patient died a vveek after the operation, fi-om erysipelas ; on examination, t was found, and is shown by the preparation, that the cemoral artery was double, and that, though only one Dortion of the vessel had been ligatured, the tumour, which jontinued to be supplied by the other branch, was com- oletely consolidated. Hence it would appear that, if one lalf only of the influx of blood be aiTcsted, obliteration of he sac by deposition of laminated fibrine may be expected 0 occur. After the aneurismal sac has been thus occluded, » t progressively diminishes in size, and is at last converted nto a small mass of fibroid tissue. The artery that has ••een ligatured becomes closed at two points—at the part dcligatcd (Fig. 08, «), and where it communicates Avitli the sac (Fig. b). In both hese situations, it will be found to be converted into fibroid tissue ; whilst letween them there is an open space, through the medium of which the ollateral circulation is freely carried on. Distal Ligature.—In some cases in which the ligature cannot, for Fig. 453.—Feiiionil Artery ligatured for Popliteal Aneurism, oljlitei-ated at a, the site of the Ligature, and at h, where the Tumour has beco'me eonsolidated and ah- Horhed ; hetwecu these jioints the Artery is ojten, and collateral branches are enlarged. 3.