io68 DmEASE^i OF THE URETHRA. CHAPTEK LXXIl. DISEASES OP THE UEETHRA. URETHRITIS. Simple Inflammation of the Urethra is especially apt to occur in strumous, rheumatic, or gouty individuals, from slight sources of irritation, either direct or sympathetic, that would not excite it in more healthy constitu- tions. In strumous children, it may arise from worms in the intestines, or from gastric irritation ; and in gouty or rheumatic subjects, it appears often to occur in connection with an acid state of the urine. Excessive beer drinking may cause a slight discharge from the urethra—the “ biertripper ” of the German students. In other cases, the irritation of a stricture, the jmssage of instruments, or ordinary sexual intercourse, may occasion the disease, without there being anything of a specific character about it. Contact with women who are out of health, pregnant, or suffering from leucorrhoea, may and often does give rise to local irritation of this kind. Urethritis, especially when arising from sexual intercourse, is frequently mistaken for gonorrhoea. Prom this it may, as a rule, be distinguished by the less intense degree of inflammation, and by the absence of the secondaiy consequences that frequently follow true gonorrhoea; yet, in many instances, the diagnosis is extremely difficult, especially from the subacute forms of gonorrhoea that are common in London. Sijm'ptoms.—Urethritis is characterized by heat, pricking, and tension about the urethra for a day or tw’o, followed by muco-purulent discharge, often rather profuse, and accompanied by some ardor urinae. The symptoms altogether are not severe, and the disease usually subsides at the end of a week or ten days ; but sometimes it becomes chronic, especially if conjoined wdth stricture, and then constitutes an extremely troublesome affection, more particularly in gouty individuals. Treaimmt.—The treatment of urethritis is mildly antiphlogistic. The bowels should be kept open, and salines fi’eely administered; in cases in which there is reason to believe that the affection is of gouty origin, small doses of colchicum, in combination with alkalies, will be found of especial service in cutting the disease short. The use of emollient or slightly as- tringent injections, such as opiate lotions, or a very weak solution of acetate of lead, with belladonna, will be found serviceable as the disease is on the decline, but not until then ; and when the affection has reached a chronic stage, small doses of copaiba may be advantageously administered. The diet in all cases should be of the blandest character, stimulants of all kinds being interdicted. If the disease be conjoined with slight stricture, it may not uufrequently give rise to temporaiy retention of urine. This may, however most commonly