DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 34 finally recovered. The longest period during which the disease lasted was forty-nine days. These interesting statistics confirm the view that the more chronic the disease becomes the better is the chance of recovery ; indeed, if the patient survive the tenth day, the prospect of a favourable issue to the case is materially increased. As a general rule, those cases are the most fatal which are most active in their symptoms ; danger being in the ratio of the acuteness of the attack, both as to severity and also as to rapidity of invasion after injury. Symptoms.—The invasion of the disease is sometimes preceded by a general uneasiness on the part of the patient, a feeling of illness or weakness, or a sense of impending mischief. Abernethy was of opinion that tetanus was usually ushered in by a disturbed state of the digestive organs, the stools being offensive and indicative of much gastric irritation. When the disease sets in gradually, it may be somewhat difficult of recognition in its early stages ; if it come on suddenly, its nature is immediately evident. It is a remarkable fact that the cramps do not begin in the part injured ; but, wherever this may be situated, they are always first noticed in the muscles of mastication, of the face, and upper part of the neck ; and, throughout, these and the muscles of respiration are principally affected. In tetanus, the circle of nervous disturbance is at first very limited. It is confined to the muscles supplied by the motor branch of the fifth, by the portio dura of the seventh, and by the spinal accessory. These nerves appear to be alone affected; the sensory division of the fifth is never influenced throughout the disease. The spasm may be confined to the muscles sup- plied by these nerves, as is the case in trismus ; but it soon spreads to the true spinal nerves, being, however, confined to their motor divisions. The first symptoms usually consist in the patient feeling a stiffness or soreness about the jaws and throat, being unable to open his mouth widely, to take food or drink, the muscles about the temples, jaw, and neck feeling stiff and rigid ; this condition has given to the disease the popular term of lock-jaw. As the affection advances, the countenance assumes a peculiar expression of pain and anguish, the features are fixed or convulsed from time to time, and the angles of the mouth drawn up, constituting the appearance called the risus sardonicus. When fairly set in, the disease is marked by spasms of the voluntary muscles of the most violent character, with much pain and only partial remissions. The pain is of that kind that attends ordinary cramp in the muscles, as of the legs, and is usually very severe. The spasms are often jerking, the patient being suddenly thrown up or twisted on one side ; the breath is drawn with a loud sobbing catch from spasm of the diaphragm, and from the same cause there is usually violent pain experienced in the epigastric region, darting across to the spine. The muscles of the trunk are usually affected next in order of frequency to those of the head and neck, the body being bent backwards so as to form a complete arch (Opisihotonos); more rarely it is drawn forwards {Em- prosthotonos) ; and still less frequently to one side {PUurosthoionos). In some cases the body becomes perfectly rigid, like a piece of wood, the belly being drawn in, and the chest expanded. It is said that in severe cases the spasms have been so violent that muscles have been ruptured, teeth broken, and the tongue lacerated. In the numerous cases of tetanus that I have unfortunately witnessed, it has rarely fallen to my lot to see any I I