71 X.E VUS—ELECTliOL YEIS—EXCISION. curbonate of soda. After the separation of the slough, its application must be repeated as often as there is any appearance of prominent granulations springing up, which occasionally happens at one angle of the Avound, and indicates a recurrence of the vascular growth. o. The actual cautery has been largely used in the treatment of njevi, and is extremely convenient and efficacious in many cases. It is most applicable to mixed cutaneous and subcutaneous nmvi. It may be used as the galvanic cautery or as raquelin’s thermo-cautery. The heated platinum wire or the pointed cautery in Paquelin’s apparatus is made to puncture the growth round its margin, leaving about a quarter of an inch between the separate punctures. Each should extend Avell into the subcutaneous portion of the tumour. A number of other punctures are then made into the tumour in the central part, care being taken not to make too many, lest the whole mass slough. In this way a large nmvus can often be destroyed Avith comparatively little loss of skin, a smooth Avhite scar being left. It is often necessary to repeat the operation more than once before a cure is effected. After the operation boracic acid ointment or some other simj)le di’essing must be applied. 4. Electrolysis, or yatvano-imndure, is best adapted to those cases of deep- seated nmvi in Avhich other treatment is difficult, or to those so situated as to make it important, if possible, to save the skin. The operation is performed by passing into the naevus tAvo needles, insulated except for the last quarter of an inch, by a coating of copal varnish, and then connecting them Avith a galvanic current of moderate strength from one of the ordinary medical bat- teries. The cuiTent should be gradually increased and the effect watched. The tumour becomes hard somewhat suddenly, and assumes a pale or almost white tint; this is a sign that enough has been done. The moment the earliest sign of hardening appears the needles should be disconnected, and connected Avith the opposite poles of the batteiy, so that the needle which was negative becomes positiA*e. By doing this hemorrhage is prevented Avhen the needles ai-e withdraAvn, as the salts of iron formed by solution of the end of the positiA'e needle seiwe as an efficient hemostatic. If gas bubbles out alongside the needles it is a sign that the current is too strong, and some cells should be taken off, or sloughing may result. In deep-seated nevi the effect can be judged of only by the hardening of the tumour. The operation has often to be repeated several times before the ntevus is finally cured. 5. hen the ntevus is large, constituting a more or less distinct tumour, and is of a somewhat venous character, it may occasionally be excised. Priclgin Teale has shown that some nmvi AA'hich are distinctly encapsuled may readily be dissected out. Should the nmA'us, howeA’er, be diffused, Avith- out any distinct limiting capsule, care should be taken to cut wide of the disease ; and no operation Avith the knife should be undertaken unless the growth be either so situated, as upon the lip, that the parts may readily be brought or compressed together, or upon the nates or thigh, AAdiere it is unconnected with large blood-vessels, and is also very indolent and venous. It is especially Avhen the mevus is lipomatous or cystic, or is distinctly encapsuled, that excision may be advantageously practised. G. As a general rule, it is far safer and more convenient to extirpate the gi-owth with the liyatvre; and this, indeed, is the mode of treatment that is most generally applicable to tumours of this kiud in Avhatever situations they