276 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. quantity of pus escaping, which may, if the limh l3C not bloodless, be readily overlooked, as it is carried away in streaks with the blood, which flows freely' from the cut bone. Should no pus escape, perhaps a portion of deadboncij may be exposed ; if so, it must be removed with a gouge. But if neither of'i these conditions be found, the Surgeon must not be disappointed, but pierce | the neighbouring osseous tissue in different directions by means of a perfora-M tor, when perhaps the abscess will be opened ; should it not be so, the patient] : will still in all probability be materially benefited by the removal of the circle|i ; of bone, and the consequent relief to the compression of the osseous tissue. ! The operation should, if possible, be performed with antiseptic precautions, j i The cavity should be thoroughly cleaned with a small piece of sponge soaked;jj in some antiseptic solution (as chloride of zinc, gr. xx. to ^j.)? in. order toj remove any fragments of necrosed bone or saw-dust. It may then be dressedi with any efiicient antiseptic dressing. Among the best are carbolic gauze and absoi’bent iodoform or salicylic wool. The dry wool dressings may be left^ a unchanged, if all goes on well, for a week or even a month if no discharge* ‘ soaks through. If decomposition can be prevented the cavity often become^ j filled with a blood-clot into which the granulation-tissue rapidly sprouts from] \ the surrounding bone until in two or three weeks it may be completely closed; If the cavity becomes filled with septic discharges the process of healing i^ much delayed. Subsequently the granulation-tissue develops into bone and 1 the limb recovers its former strength and utility. DIFFUSE SEPTIC OSTEOMYELITIS. Diffuse acute inflammation, ending in suppuration of the medullary tissue*! of a bone, may arise as a consequence of open injmdes, such as compoundjii fractures or amputations, or occur as an acute disease arising without eviden cause. I shall here deal only with the former condition, the latter being mos conveniently considered when discussing the disease commonly known in thi^f country as “ acute necrosis.” Acute septic osteomyelitis was formerly a common consequence of injuriegi' by which the medullary canal was opened, such as compound fractures or am- t putations, and it was also often met vdth when the cancellous tissue only waa r implicated, as in excision of the knee. Compound fissured fractures [of th(| f long bones, such as result from gun-shot wounds, are specially prone to be followed by it. The condition is essentially connected with decomposition ol the discharges of the wound through which the bone has been exposed, an more especially with the presence of septic matter pent up in contact with the open medullary canal or cancellous tissue. The improved treatment of woundg and the use of antiseptics has now almost abolished the disease in civil though it still retains its hold in military practice. j In certain very rare cases diffuse osteomyelitis has been met with as thd i j result of subcutaneous injuries. In the majority of these cases it formed 1 a secondary effect of general blood-poisoning from a foul wound on som^f other part of the body. That this is the most probable explanation of thesdrS cases is shown by the fact that simple fractures can be made to suppurate iiy ^ animals, and osteomyelitis can often be induced in the injured bone b}|j I injecting septic matter into the blood-stream. The pathology of the process is not difficult to understand. If septia^ matter be pent up in the deep parts of a wound in contact ivith the openecy!J| fj