f 542 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the digestion and geueral licalth. Tiocally, iodide of sulphur ointment is useful. Lipoma Nasi is a chronic hypertrophy of the cutaneous and subcutaneous structures, foi-ming- a large reddish-blue, vascular-looking, soft, tremulous, and lohulated mass, enveloping the end of the nose, and ])roducing excessive deformity of it. There are all degrees of this disease, from mere clubljing of the end of the organ, to the formation of a set of pendulous lobular tumours attached to it. The sebaceous glands are greatly enlarged in this disease, often reaching the size of small peas. The patient’s a]i)pearance may be greatly improved by the removal of these growths, as is shown in Figs. Go:-}, (554, taken from a patient operated on by M. Beck. This may be done readily Fig. 653.—Lipoma of Nose before operation. Fig. 654.—Same Nose after Operation. enough by making an incision down the mesial line to the alar cartilages, and then dissecting the lipoma off these on each side ; especial care, however, bemg taken in doing this not to encroach upon the nostril. This is best avoided by directing an assistant to keep his finger in it tvhile the dissection is being prosecuted, so that he may warn the Surgeon of the too near approach of the knife. The surface is then left to granulate and cicatrize. Lupus, Epithelioma, Ho dent Ulcer, and Tertiary Syphilitic Ulcera- tion are all common in the nose. Lupus especially may be looked upon as almost specially affecting this organ, destroying one or both aim, the columna, or perhaps the whole of the nose. The consideration of the nature and treat- ment of these affections in this situation presents nothing special {see Chapter XXXVII. Vol. I.): but the cure of the deformities induced by them, ; which is full of interest to the Surgeon, will be considered in detail when we ; speak of the plastic operations that are practised on the face. Ulcers and Fissures, of a less serious character, though very painful and chronic, often occur at the angle of the ala and septum, or between the ala and tip. Their Treatment consists in touching them from time to time with nitrate of silver, or in the application every night of white precipitate or citrine ointment; at the same time that the general health is attended to, and the strength restored, by the administration of iron, bark, and sarsaparilla.