SYPHILITIC AXD TUBERCULAR LARYNGITIS. Gjs ; '1 seeti fonninji' smooth greyish elevations, usually oii the epiglottis or the iutcr- iSi’ arytmnoid fold of mucous membrane. These may be followed by superficial 4 ulc*eratioii. The most common and most characteristic of the syphilitic .ri affections of the larynx arc those met with in the tertiary stages of the disease. ■ ;[j T'he pathological changes observed arc the same as in other parts—difiuse over- )V| growth of the connective tissue or gummatous infiltration, and the formation of isolated gummata. The subsequent softening of the gummata gives rise to wide-spreading, destructive ulceration, and should the patient recover and the ulcei-s heal, cicatricial contraction follows, sometimes to such an extent as ihnost to close the opening of the larynx. The parts first affected are usually he epiglottis and the arytmuo-epiglottidean folds, and from these points the deeration extends imvards towards the glottis. Sometimes the distinct gummata may be seen as pale yellowish elevations in the mucous mem- UTine, and should softening and ulceration follow, the yellowish adherent ' dough may possibly be recognized. Syphilitic ulceration not uncommonly 5 eads to complete destruction of the epiglottis, and in the later stages necrosis if the cartilages frequently occurs. The disease is usually associated with imilar ulceration in the pharynx. The symptoms are those of chronic iryngitis, with muco-purulent expectoration and gradual loss of voice. Iradually increasing dyspnoea is not nncomnion from contraction of the pening of the glottis. Diagnosis.—Syphilitic ulceration of the larynx is recognized by the history f syphilis and the presence of other manifestations of the disease, by the igidity of the affected tissues, by the early affection of the epiglottis, the foul rcy surface of the ulcers, or the presence of adherent yellow sloughs, and by le fact that the nlceration commences in the peripheral parts, and spreads )wards the central. The rapidity with which the destruction of tissue may ike place serves to distinguish it from epithelioma. Treatment.—The usual constitutional treatment of syphilis must be actively ; lopted. Locally a solution of bichloride of mercury (gr. ij. to 53'.), may be nplied with a sponge or brush, or a preparation of half that strength used as spray. Iodoform mixed with twice its bulk of starch may be blown into le larynx by the method already described, or by means of the special instru- ent constructed for this purpose. 'When healing is taking place nitrate of Iver may be of use, but it is not so efficacious as in simple chronic ryngitis. Should the dyspnoea become a marked symptom, tracheotomy ust Ije perfonned. Tubercular Laryiigitis is usually met with only in advanced disease of e lungs, but occasionally it is the earliest sign of phthisis, and the disease I ay run its course and terminate fatally without the lungs being extensively i :ected. This variety is sometimes spoken of as Laryngeal Phthisis. The rliest symptoms arc merely those of chronic laryngitis. As it advances the ice is lost, there is constant cough, Avith frothy muco-purulent expectoration d great pain. Deglutition becomes gradually more and more painful, till at last 2 patient can scarcely be induced to swallow, and death takes place gradually jra exhaustion. Ijaryngoscopic examination may at first show but little, but fore long a peculiar swelling is observed in the mucous membrane covering 2 aiytienoid cartilages and the neighbouring parts of the arytmno-epiglotti- an folds. This gives rise to two ])yriform swellings of sufficient size to meet the middle line posteriorly. It is this swollen mass projecting backwards X X 2 r 1 !i! 1 I ''4^' I t