137 TREATMENT BY INSTRUMENTAL COMPRESSION. be continuous and complete, the coagulation of the remaining fluid pait of its blood is apt to take place rather suddenly. But in all cases the conti action of the sac, consequent upon the ari’est or restraint of the current of blood into it, is an important element in the cure. Illustrative of this mode of cuic, there is a preparation in the Museum of University College (Fig. 450). From all this, then, it would appear that the consolidation and cure of an aneurism by compression may take place in three different ways : 1, by the slow deposit of laminated ■ tibriue ; *2, by rapid coagulation of the contents of the sac ; o, by contraction of the sac. The parti- i cnlar mode of cure will depend upon the completeness ! of the compression and the more or less perfect arrest of the blood in the sac, the coagulability of that j blood, and the shape of the aneurism, t Circumstances Influencing Success. — The \ success of the treatment by compression depends [.greatly upon a scrupulous attention to a number of [ minor circumstances, which, though each be trifling in itself, become of importance when taken as a whole. ; During the whole of the treatment, also, the patient’s general health should be attended to in accordance with those dietetic and medical principles that have already been laid down in speaking of the constitu- f tional treatment of the disease. The irritability of the heart must also be subdued, and the irritation of ^ t the system lessened, by the use of opiates or of chloral; and the patient K > should be put into a comfortable bed, with firm and well-secured pillows and I nmattresses, so that his position may not be changed. As it is principally in I i meurism of the lower extremity that compression can be employed, we shall I .oroceed to describe the method of its application here. i Application of the Compressor.—The thigh should, if necessary, be /jf shaved, so as to remove all hair. The skin should then be powdered, aiind the limb bandaged with a soft roller ; a pad being laid on the tumour. Pillows must then be comfortably amanged under it, the knee being semi- |:3exed. IMuch of the success of the treatment will depend upon the kind of instrument used. The ordinary horse-shoe, or Signorini’s tourniquet, was the one first employed, and this will, in many cases, answer the purpose perfectly well ; but, as it is somewhat difficult to regulate the pressure with this instru- ment, and as it is not unfrequently exercised too powerfully, it has generally given place at the present day to the very ingenious apparatus of Carte, which, IS it substitutes an elastic force derived from vulcanized India-rubber bands for the unyielding pressue of the screw, accommodates itself better to the limb, md is less likely to produce injurious compression. This instrument, as well IS the other contrivances which have at various times been invented for the rt,reatment of aneurism by compression, are described by Bellingham and Fig. 456.—Sac of Tuliular Aneiu’isni cured Ijy Compres- sion ; Contraction of Sac, and iiTegular Dej)Osit of Fibrine. Tiifnell, in their works on this subject, to which I must refer for a fuller iccount than I can here give. In applying the compreasor, especial care must l)c taken that it is well |)added in every part, so as not to gall the skin. In some of the early cases in which I saw compression employed in London by means of the horse-shoe