817 FEMORA L HERNIA —RE LA TIO NS—SIGNS. artery, ■when arising in the normal manner from the internal iliac, does not come into relation with the neck of the sac ; bnt when it takes its origin, as it not nnfrequently does, from the external iliac, the epigsistric, or the common femoral, it may have important relations to this part of the hernia. Most commonly, in these circumstances, it passes to the iliac or outer side of the neck, hut occasionally it winds round its inner or pubic side, coming into close relation with it; and then, as will immediately be mentioned, it may be in considerable danger during the operation. The combination, however, of this particular variety of the obtimitor artery and femoral hernia, is a very uncommon occur- Fig. 800.—1. Femoral Hernia: 2. Femoral Vein : 3. Femoral Artery, giving off, 4, Common Trunk of Epigastric and Obturator Arteries, and 5, Epigastric Artery : 6. Spermatic Cord. ’ence ; because, in the first place, this internal distribution of the artery is ’are ; and when it does occur, as it usually passes directly over that portion of \ he crural ring through Avhich the sac would protrude, it necessarily strengthens ^ his, and so diminishes the chance of rupture. Contents.—The contents of a femoral hernia are usually intestinal, and .nost commonly consist of a portion of the ileum. Occasionally omentum is ontained within the sac, but seldom in large quantity. I have, however, everal times had occasion to operate in cases of old femoral hernia, in which t became necessary to remove large portions of adherent omentum ; in one, en and a half ounces, and in another about seven. In each case there Avas small knuckle of intestine strangulated behind the omentum. The ovaries, '"allopian tubes, &c., have been known to be strangulated in this variety of ernia. Signs.—The signs of femoral hernia are usually well marked. They consist f a tolerably firm, tense, and unyielding tumour, of a rounded shape, ituated in the groin, to the inner side of the femoral vessels, and to the outer ide of the spine of the pubes, having its neck under Poupart’s ligament, hough, as it increases in size, its base is turned above that structure ; ometimes, though rarely, it passes downwards upon the thigh. Its size varies onsidenibly ; most commonly it is not larger than a walnut or a pigeon’s egg, nd then is deeply seated in the angle betAveen the body of the pubes and the VOb. II. 3 Q