STRICTURE OF THE CESORIIAGUS. 659 to deglutition and respiration. The so-called fihrmispoli/jnis projecting from the base of the skull into the phaiynx has been already described, p. 551. Epithelioma of the pharynx has occasionally been met with (Fig. 745). This form of the disease, which is of rare occurrence, does not differ from similar growths elsewhere. STRICTURE OP THE (ESOPHAGUS. All diseases of the oesophagus have a tendency to constrict and eventually to occlude its passage, and hence are commonly described as Strictures of it. In some instances, the constriction of the oesophagus may be of a purely nervous or spasmodic character; but in the majority of instances it is the result either of fibrous or of cancerous infiltration of the walls of the canal, and is then termed organic stricture. The simple non-malignant or fibrous strictime is in most instances eventually the seat of an epithelioma, and hence appears to be more rare than in reality it is, as it is seldom met with after death in its simple form. Scirrhous cancer may implicate the oesophagus as it enters the stomach, and sarcomatous growths of various kinds may arise in its neighbourhood and involve its coats. The great feature of oesophageal stricture is difficulty of deglutition; but dysphagia may arise from many causes besides oesophageal stricture. Hence its diagnosis is in the highest degree important. Conditions producing Dysphagia independently of Stricture.— There are at least eight different conditions met with in the neck and chest capable of giving rise to dysphagia by compressing the oesophagus, indepen- dently of any stricture of that canal. 1. Tumours connected with the Pharynx.—Putting out of considera- : tion tumours of the tonsils, which would always be readily discovered, polypus of the pharynx may hang down and offer obstructions to the passage of food. ! In all polypoid growths connected with the pharynx (which are exceedingly rrare) the nature, connections, &c., of the growth may be made out by drawing : the tongue well forward, keeping it fixed with the tongue-spatida, and passing r the finger well down behind the root of the organ ; the pharynx can thus Ije explored, even below the root of the epiglottis, without much difficulty. . Abscess may exist between the posterior wall of the pharynx and the spine, jjossibly arising from caries of the cervical vertebrie ; or a p)osiphargnyeal tumour, as, for instance, a sarcomatous gi’owth, may be developed from the i)odies of the vertebras, and push the pharynx forwards. The eye is often ieceived in these cases, failing to detect the existence of an enlargement at the ■back of the pharynx ;.but the finger readily recognizes it. In the case of ibscess there is fluctuation, and the dysphagia will be removed by opening the ibscess and letting out the contents ; and the solid, or semi-solid and soft, or other feel of a tumour in this situation will lead to a very probable guess as to ts nature. '2. Morbid Conditions of the Larynx.—(Edema about the back of the lipiglottis, or chronic endema, idccratioii, and thickening of the mucous nernbranc there, dependent ujion sj'philis or tubercle or oedema about the •ima glottidis, may give rise to a tendency for liquids to pass into the air- lassages, and thus occasion a serious impediment in swallowing, the difficulty )eing attended with a feeling of spasm and suffocation. Bypassing the finger lown behind the root of the tongue, the state of parts can sometimes be felt, u u 2