SIMPLE AXILLARY TUMOURS. 751 i Jig. 779.- -Jibrous Tumour in Axilla of a Woman. ]'’ig. 780.—Same Tumour, Front View. women, forming a smooth, lobcd mass, often reacliiiig a great size. It is insnally associated with similar tumours elsewhere, but occasionally the glands of the axilla are alone affected. The enlarged glands form no attachments to laurroiinding parts, and may bo readily removed by enucleation. Pibromata arc sometimes met with in this region, and may attain a great : magnitude. A fibroma forms a large, smooth, rounded mass, stretching the •muscles and displacing the vessels and nerves, as in Figs. 770 and 780. In this case the tumour, Avliich was of very slow growth, developed between the t has been the seat of an ahnormal secretion of milk. In boys about the ago )f puberty it occasionally becomes the seat of siihacute injlcimmation often attributed to a blow. This is best treated by the application of a belladonna blaster spread on soft leather with a hole cut through it for the nipple. Chrome ntersHtial inflammation, with enlargement and induration of the rudimentary mamma is occasionally met with, and if a source of much annoyance may ustify the removal of the diseased gland. Cysts and sarcomata are more rare. Scirrhous cancer is occasionally met with. The accompanying drawing Fig. 778) represents a case of this kind under the care of C. Heath in 'Jnivei-sity College Hospital. Those growths require removal by the same cind of operative procedure that is adopted Avhen they affect the female breast, .houcrh of a less extensive character. O AXILLARY TUMOURS. Chronic Strumous Disease of the axillary glands is occasionally met ,vith, forming a large lobed mass under the pectoral muscle. Such a tmnour '-IS this may easily and safely be enucleated, and should be removed if it have •esisted all ordinary topical and constitutional treatment. It will be found to >3e infiltrated with tubercle. 1 Simple Tumours of various kinds are met with in the axilla. The most common are lymphadenomata of the axillary glands, fatty and fibrous tumours. Lymphadenoma of the Axillary Glands is met with chiefly in young