OSTEITIS—RAREFYING—CONDENSING. 263 sorption of the osseous tissue. For this reason they have received the name of osteoclasts. They lie directly, in contact with the bone, the rest of the space surrounding the vessels being filled with the ordinary small round cells of granulation-tissue. Their mode of development and subsequent fate are uncertain. The osseous tissue which is yet undestroyed presents often no evident change. The bone corpuscles certainly show no signs of taking any part in the process. Should they show any change it is one of degeneration, not of proliferation. They may be unnaturally granular, and are sometimes represented merely by an oil-globule, or a mass of fat granules. They can in most cases be seen to be unaltered until the lacunm in which they lie are opened by the advancing absorption of the osseous tissue, and after that their fate is unknown. "When the destructive process has advanced far enough to form a consider- able space filled with granulation-cells around the original vessel of the flaversian canal, new capillary loops are formed penetrating amongst the new tissue, just as in the development of granulation-tissue in a wound. The destruction of bone by the pressure of a tumour or an aneurism, or its infiltration by a malignant gi’owth, is carried out by the same process as that just described, but in the former case, when the Haversian canals have become sufliciently enlarged, the special elements of the tumour penetrate into them, displacing the granulation-tissue. The compact tissue may in like manner be invaded by the specific tissue of a syphilitic gumma. Various terms are applied clinically to this rarefying osteitis under its different modifications. When the process is widely diffiised, a large part of the shaft of a bone being rendered more porous than natm’al without complete destruction of the bony tissue, it is sometimes termed inflammatory osteoporosis. When only a localized area is affected, as in the separation of dead from living bone, with complete destruction of the osseous tissue, and subsequent formation of pas from the granulation-tissue replacing it, it is termed simple ulceration of hone. When it occiu's as the result of the infiltration of the compact tissue by a sub-periosteal gumma followed by softening and suppuration of the new growth, it is described as syphilitic caries. Osteoplastic Osteitis or Osteo-sclerosis.—This is always an extremely chronic process. It may occur as a sequence of diffuse rarefactive osteitis, or as the secondary result of some central mischief occurring in the cancellous tissue or medulla, or as a consequence of syphilis. Osteoplastic osteitis is characterized by a development of new bone in the connective tissue surround- ing the vessels in the Haversian canals. The mode of formation of the osseous tissue is the same as in osteoplastic periostitis. As the result of the process the bone becomes greatly increased in density, frequently with complete obliteration of many of the Haversian canals. This may even go on to such an extent as to cut off the vascular supply from a portion of bone and thus cause its death. The l)one may assume the consistence of ivory. At the same time it may increase in thickness, partly from a simultaneous deposit of bone by the periosteum, and partly apparently from interstitial growth in the bone itself. The new bone, though denser in structure, resembles healthy osseous tissue when examined by the microscope. The two processes just described, 08teo])lastic and rarefactive osteitis, not nnfrequently go on side by side, giving rise to the appearance known as ex- pansion of bone. The compact tissue, when thus affected, becomes more