3 z 2 TREATMENT OF GLEET, i!S iB '/'/ I'l'' l/lj jjll 11' III' HI 11! V'/ III! I ' >075 !inbraue. If any enter the bladder it cannot signify, as it will immediately decomposed by the salts and mncns of the urine. I'.nstead of the ordinary glass syringe, the injector (Fig. !)18) may be ad- itageously used. By it, the injection is thrown from lind forwards, so that when passed beyond the inflamed t it washes out the discharge, instead of forcing it ther on. rrreatment of Gleet.—In gleet, much difficulty will :en be experienced in curing the patient of his dis- irge. Here much depends not only on the adminis- {I tion of proper remedies, but on care being taken L-cntively to regulate his habits of life. It will cou- ntly be found that, after the disease has apparently :ii cured, excesses at table, and more especially the liking of beer, or of effervescing or acid wines, will ng back the discharge. It will return also after uuection, though it have previously ceased entirely. ! iis is especially the case in strumous, gouty, or -.umatic constitutions, in which all urethral inflamma- ins are with difficulty removed. In these cases, then, latinence from alcoholic liquids and dietetic stimu- ts, and a continent life must be strictly enjoined ; but ! local treatment requires careful attention. Ill the early stages of gleet an attempt may be made cure it by injections. For this purpose somewhat •onger solutions are required than in the more acute r ’iod of the disease. Sulphate of copper will often be imd useful, commencing with half a grain to the aice, and gradually increasing it to one or even two Tannic acid in the strength of from two to four gi-ains to the will sometimes check the discharge. Soluble bougies, similar to -jse already described, but containing tannic acid, sulphate of zinc, or etate of lead, are often of great service. These, combined with the internal III '')/ ' /! III;:!! ■ II' I ' ii I Fig. 918.—Teevan’s Injector. ministration of copaiba and cubebs, or the perchloride of iron, may effect a I ire. If these do not succeed, the occasional passage of a full-sized bougie is I ithe greatest use. The orifice of the urethra must also be examined for I iirty growths, which may keep up the discharge. 'When the disease has become very chronic, and has assumed the form of I ianular urethritis, it is difficult of cure ; for, as Dcsormeaux has pointed *t, no injection, which the healthy portion of the urethra is capable