I 204 SFECJAL ANEURISMS. the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse ])rocess of the sixth cervical vertebra was readily felt and taken for a guide. Immediately before this and in a vertical line with it lies the artery. A layer of fascia was now divided ; some loose cellular tissue with lymphatics and the ascending cervical artery were pulled to the inner side ; and a separation was made between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles just below their insertion into the tubercle, when the artery and vein became visible ; the latter was drawn to the outer side (this is important), and the needle passed around the former fi-om Avithout inwards.” In 1881, W. Alexander of Liverpool suggested ligature of the vertebral as a means of curing or relieving epilepsy. He performed the operation in several cases at first with apparent benefit, but subsequent observation showed that the improA'cment was merely temporary. The operation was repeated in two cases by Watson Cheyne. The method of operating Avas that above described, and the results so far as the operation Avas concerned Avere satisfactory in the great majority of the cases. ANEURISM OP THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This artery, though less commonly the seat of aneurism than other large vessels, such as those of the ham, the groin, and the neck, yet is sufficiently frequently diseased. This is due chiefly to its situation, its proximity to the shoulder-joint causing it to be subjected to the very varied, extensive, and often forcible movements, of which that articulation is the seat. Amongst the most frequent causes of axillary anemnsm, may be mentioned falls upon the shoulder or upon the outstretched hands, and in many cases the eflbrts made at reducing old standing dislocations, instances of which are recorded by Pelletan, Flaubert, Warren, and Gibson, the head of the bone in these cases having probably contracted adhesions to the artery, in consequence of which the vessel was torn dming the efforts at reduction. Axillaiy, like subclavian aneurism, occurs more commonly on the right than on the left side, and is met with in especial frequency amongst men ; of 37 cases, only 3 occm’red in women. T am acquainted with one case only in which both axillary arteries became aneurismal; it occurred to Furner of Brighton. In this remarkable case both axillaiy arteries became affected, an interval of about fifteen months intervening between the formation of the tAvo aneurismal tumours ; and the subclavian was ligatured on both sides successfully. Symptoms.—In axillary aneurism there are three sets of symptoms, attention to which will usually enable the Surgeon to recognize the disease ; these are, the existence of a tumour in the axilla, the pain that it occasions, and the affections to Avhich it gives rise in the limb. The precise situation at Avhich an aneurism of the axillary artery presents externally, Avill depend upon Avhether it springs fmm that portion of the vessel that lies above, beneath, or beloAv the lesser pectoral muscle. If from above, it Avill appear as a tumour seated immediately below the clavicle and occupying the triangular space between the upper margin of the lesser pectoral and that bone ; if it be lower doAAm, it Avill raise the anterior fold of the axilla, being prevented from extending much out of this space by the dense fascia that stretches across from one side to the other. The tumour, AAdiich is at firet soft and compressible, has a Avhizzing bruit ; and its pulsations, which are expansile, may be arrested by pressure upon the subclavian artery, Avherc it passes over I ■'j .il li i /t :i3 i:£ MI ,1R M •a no :n ni ■>« ta (ui ;L’Cl j-'iu ji'fi i