INGUIXAL AND LUMBAR COLOTOMY COMPARED. 849 bl)' in the wouuJ ns can conveniently be done. After the operation the anterior part of the wound may be closed with sutures, bnt the posterior should be left partly open, and, if necessary, a drainage tube introduced to prevent any burrowing of pus in the loose sub-peritoneal areolar tissue. A pad of carded oakum, or some other absorbent antiseptic material, is then applied and changed frequently. A piece of lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10) may be applied next the skin, a hole being cut through it opposite the gut. After colotomy, the patient will derive much comfort fi’om taking powdered charcoal. It not only deodorizes, but also tends to harden the fmces. When recovery has taken place, the aperture in the lumbar region may be kept supported and closed by means of a truss with a large pad. Wound of the Peritoneum is the most serious accident during the operation, as it may be followed by peritonitis, bnt is by no means necessarily so. It may occur in three stages of the operation :—1, while dividing the fascia lumborum, from too free use of the knife ; 2, the posterior reflection may be corn with the finger by using it as a hook to drag the gut up into the wound ; 3, it may be punctured by the needles, or wounded by the knife in opening the gut. In rare cases free gas is met with in the peritoneal cavity, and this ;may lead to the peritoneum being mistaken for the gut. In some cases there >is a complete meso-colon is met with, so that it is impossible to open the gut .vithout wounding the serous membrane. In fat subjects the depth of the -vound increases the difficulty of the operation, in some cases necessitating a t crucial incision to give more space. Different Surgeons have variously' modified the operation by making the incision vertical or semilunar instead :)f transverse, but the method above described is that usually preferred. After colotomy two complications are not uncommonly met with, contrac- 1 ion of the wound and prolapsus of the gut. The first must be treated by ^ ! ntroducing a conical vulcanite plug, which must be constantly worn ; the ■econd by a properly constructed pad, secured by an elastic belt. The causes of death after colotomy are usually exhaustion, septicaemia, peri- •onitis from wound of the membrane, and occasionally secondary peritonitis :om buiToving of pus in the subperitoneal fat towards the iliac fossa. Comparison of Littre’s and Amnssat’s Operations.—When we com- are the different operations that have been proposed for the formation of an rtificial anns, it will be seen that Callisen’s, as modified by Amussat, presents i he great advantage of not implicating the peritoneum, and the risk of periton- >ds is thus avoided. The danger of death from this cause in Littre’s opera- :on does not seem, however, to be so great as might have been supposed, and ¥ s advocates claim for it the advantages of being a less severe operation and F placing the new anus in a more convenient situation, as the patient is able > cleanse it himself. Also, when the operation is performed for congenital ■osence of the I'cctum, Littre’s is said to be preferable, as being much less rifficult and more certain to reach the gut, which is often in infants attached j a long meso-colon in the left loin. It is said also that the risk of n-itonitis in Littre’s method is less than when the peritoneum is accidentally ounded in AmnssJit’s operation, as the uniform pressure of the anterior xlominal wall tends to ja'cvent the entrance of ficcal matter into the cavity, he fact that the sigmoid flexure is so often the seat of the disease in malignant ricture is, on the other hand, a very strong argument in favour of Amussat’s xjration in all such cases. rt