INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 1103 t :f the uretlirii not being injuriously disturbed by the expansion of the ifcistrunient. Berkeley Hill has invented a modification of the dilators previously in use /hich presents several advantages. He thus describes it : “ The instrument ' onsists of a split sound, which equals in calibre a No. 2 or 3 catheter. The lalves of the split sound can be separated by passing between them a wedge il'ixed on a slender stem. The wedge is prevented, by two dovetail grooves at IS hinder part, from leaving the sound which acts as a guide during the oassage of the wedge down the urethra.” “ The advantages claimed for this mstrument are : simplicity of construction; the central guide of Holt’s in- 'trument is not needed, hence the split sound can be passed through narrower trictures. Next and chiefly, diminution of resistance, and consequently the nore immediate application of the rupturing force—the wedge—to the impedi- nent to be overcome. The force needed to push Holt’s dilator is sometimes very great, and the attempt has been abandoned, or the instrument has broken, ^ven in skilful hands, from this cause. Much of the force is expended on the continuous friction outside the tube along the split sound, and inside along the ^ide. In the wedge-dilator the friction-surface is reduced to two dovetail grooves, which together do not exceed half an inch. For this, the force required is so small that one hand suffices to overcome the resistance.” The instrument can, if required, be adapted to a conducting sound, such as is iiescribed afterwards under Internal Urethrotomy. Forcible dilatation is doubtless a most efficient mode of treating stricture ; ! by it the urethra is immediately restored to its full diameter, and the result which it may take weeks to accomplish by simple dilatation is at once obtained. It is, however, by no means devoid of danger. The urethra is not dilated, it is split, and a longitudinal rent in the mucous membrane is made corresponding to the length of the stricture. The shock produced by so ^•.violent a proceeding is often severe, and suppression of urine has followed in ^several recorded cases. It has also been sometimes followed by urinaiy abscess, :and more rarely by pytemia. '\^diat it gains in rapidity it loses in safety, and :to adopt it as a universal mode of treating strictures would lead to the loss of imany lives that might have been saved by gentle treatment. 4. Division of the Stricture may be practised either from within the :urethra, or from without, through the perinacum. Internal Urethrotomy.—The division from w'ithin may be performed in two ways ; either by cutting through the stricture from before backwai-ds, ■ or by passing a proper instrument through it, and dividing it from behind : forwards. The first operation—that of perforating tlie stricturebefore hachvards— imay Ice performed by passing a lancctted stylet (Fig. 031) into the stricture, and ! then pushing forwards the concealed lancet-like knife, attempting to perforate The obstruction. This plan is necessarily attended by the most dangerous i consequences, if an attempt be made to thrust a stylet through the stricture without a guide ; the probability, indeed almost the certainty, being that the pointed cutting blade will pass by the stricture and divide the healtliy wall of the urethra. It is, indeed, almost banished from surgical juacticc, and is applicable with safety only to those strictures that arc situated iu the part of the urethra anterior to the scrotum, where the canal is straight. In the deeper and more curved jearts, any attempt at perforation would obviously