3 1 2 PA RA CENTS SIS A EDO MINIS. ii 851 CHAPTER LXIV. rAPPING THE ABDOJtlEX.—OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA.—TUMOURS OF THE OROIN. TAPPING THE ABDOMEN. PAKACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. The abdomen often requires Tapping, either for general or encysted ascites. This operation, which is one of the simplest in surgery, may be performed ,s follows. The bladder having been emptied, the patient is seated on the dge of the bed or of a large chair, or if very weak lies on the side, and , Atas a broad flannel roller, split at each end to within six inches of the middle, >assed round the body in such a -way that the untorn part covers the front of he abdomen, whilst the ends, which are crossed behind, are given to an -ssistant on each side, who must draw tightly upon them as the water flows, ’he Surgeon then, seating himself before the patient, and having ascertained hat there is absolute dulness at the point at which he intends to operate, lakes a small incision with a scalpel into the mesial line about two inches .elow the mnbilicus, and through the opening thus made he thrusts the •’ochar; as the fluid escapes, the patient often becomes faint, but this may Tommonly be guarded against by continuing to draw upon the bandage so as ) keep up good pressure in the abdomen. After all the fluid has escaped, the Derture must be closed with a strip or two of plaster supported by a pad and mdage, or a pad of iodoform or salicylic wool covered with collodion. The incision through which the trochar is thrust must not enter the perito- •3um. The trochar itself must be of full size, with a well-fitting cannula. )metimes it is convenient to have one fitted with a stop-cock, to the end of hich a vulcanized india-rubber tube, as represented in Fig. 768, p. 698, may ; adapted, by which the fiuid is earned quietly and ivithout splashing into the lil destined to receive it. Should the particular situation of the accumula- >n of fluid in encysted, ascites not allow its withdrawal by an aperture below 'A i e umbilicus, the abdomen may be tapped in any other convenient situation, cept in the coume of the epigastric vessels. Ascitic fluid may be removed also by the aspirator, but in the abdomen this stniment presents no advantages over the ordinary syphon-trochar. . R. Southey, believdng that a gradual withdrawal of the fluid is most advan- ^eous, avoiding the risk of syncope and the necessity of bandaging the tient, has devised a small “ drainage-trochar,” which can be left in until e distension is relieved. The fluid flows steadily from it at the rate of from n to twenty ounces per hour, through a fine india-rubber tube. This method relieving ascites has been found veiy efficacious. It has no tendency to set ' ixsritonitis, and is almost painle.ss.