LOOSE CARTILAGES—DIAGNOSIS—TREATMENT. 355 j that peculiar nature that it is called into action only when an attempt is made j to stretch them, and thus forcibly to counteract or destroy their natural use. ,j Ligaments may be cut without any suffering, but they cannot be stretched, leither by accident or disease, without the most severe pain. In some cases the , loose cartilage can be felt under the capsule, by carrying the finger over the ! joint, slipping back Avhen pressure is exercised upon it, and often possessing ^ great mobility, gliding from one side of the joint to the other, so as to be .; extremely difficult to fix. I Diagnosis.—The only condition likely to be confounded with a loose body ( -is the displacement of one of the interarticular fibro-cartilages of the knee. ) The distinction can usually be made by observing that immediately after the j . sudden attack of pain the knee can be completely extended when it is due to I ;:the presence of a loose body, as this rarely if ever becomes jammed between the I articular surfaces ; while a displaced fibro-cartilage usually remains out of posi- I tion until replaced by manipulation or movement of the joint, and until this is I effected complete extension is impossible. Treatment.—The palliative treatment consists in supporting the joint with an elastic bandage of knee-cap, so as to limit its movements, and thus prevent ir,he liability to recm-rence of the attacks of pain; and in this way the 'iiation and ultimate absorption of the cartilage may sometimes be obtained. This I have several times seen to occur in patients who either refused to be operated on, or in whom an operation was not thought advisable. Any inflam- nation that has been excited requires to be subdued by proper antiphlogistic ■ reatment. In aU operations for the removal of loose cartilages antiseptic precautions of the most rigorous character should be adopted. By their aid oints may be opened and explored, and foreign bodies extracted with a r*feedom and safety otherwise unattainable. If the cartilage occasion great and frequent suffering, so as to interfere L eriously with the utility of the limb, and if it appear to be of large size, and L'O be loose and single, means may be taken for its extraction. But it must be )ome in mind that, whilst the loose cartilage is at most an inconvenience, hough perhaps a serious one, any operation for its removal by which the joint 5 opened, becomes a source of danger to limb and even to life. It is far less 1 angerous, in fact, to leave the foreign body than to perform the operation •.ecessary for its extraction. Hence an operation should not be lightly pro- ■osed or undertaken, without warning the patient of the possible consequences uat might follow. No operation should be undertaken so long as the joint is 1 an irritated state, as the result of a recent attack of pain and inflammation ; iiis must be first subdued, and then the operation may be proceeded with ; or should it be done if the patient’s health be broken. The extraction of the foreign body has been performed in two ways ; by :irect incision into the joint, and by subcutaneous section. The operation by rirect incision used to be effected by directing the patient in the first instance ) make those movements by which he usually gets the cartilage fixed in the : )int. So soon as the Surgeon felt it (as this operation is commonly required 1 the knee), he pushed it to one side of the patella, where he fixed it firmly I 'ith his forefinger and thumb ; he then drew the skin covering it to one side, ) as to make it tense, and cut directly down upon the cartilage by a suffi- j iontly free incision to allow its escape. The wound, which, when the skin ■as relaxed, was somewhat valvular, was then closed by a strip of plaster and