DISEASES OE THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 678 develop in the iieiglibourhood of the epiglottis or false vocal cords. ^J’hey form smooth, shining, rounded projections. Pohjims of Iho Larynx is a term applied to any simple pedunculated growth, and' has no pathological significance. The simple tumours of the larynx cause alteration in the voice, slight cough, discomfoi’t, and dyspnoea, varying in degree with the size of the growth. Iheir true nature can be recognized only l)y careful examination with the laryngoscope. 1 reatment. These growths may be removed by one of two methods—the endo- or the ecto-laryngeal. There appears to be a general consensus of opinion amongst laryngologists that the endo-laryngeal method should always be attemj)ted in the first instance. Should it fail, then the laiynx may be opened and the groAvth removed from without. The endo-laryngeal method consists in removing the growth through the glottis by means of instruments specially ! I ! Fig. 751.—EndoUaryngeal Forceps. H designed for the purpose, guided by the laryngoscope. The instruments most H commonly used are forceps, by which the growth can be seized and torn from I its attachments ; but in some cases, especially when the growth is of some size I and distinctly pedunculate, wire snares or small eoraseurs may be of use. In ■ some cases the destruction of the growth may be brought about by simply H crushing it with a strong pair of forceps. These operations require practice H both on the jiart of the patient and the Surgeon. The patient must be, taught B to keep steady, to hold his own tongue, and to tolerate the presence of the B instrument. For this purpose it is often necessary to train him for a B week or two before any real attempt is made to remove the growth. The B smaller papillary growths will sometimes disappear under the application of 11 nitrate of silver; in such cases therefore the Surgeon should not be in a hurry fl to attempt operative interference. The accompanying drawings (Figs. 751, B 752, 753) show various forms of forceps which may be used in these Bi operations. B i Should the endo-laryngeal operation fail or be impossible, the growth must flt be removed by an ecto-laryngeal operation. Mackenzie lays it down as a cardinal rule that no operation of this kind should be undertaken unless there Br is danger to life from dyspnoea or dysidiagia. 11: The operation most commonly performed is that known as Thyrotomy. i;l It is advisable in most cases to perform a preliminary tracheotomy about a II fortnight before undertaking the removal of the tumour. When the patient It. has quite recovered from this and feels no further discomfort from the tube, 11 thyrotomymay be undertaken. The operation is thus performed: an incision U| is made accurately in the middle line from the thyroid notch to the cricoid II,