914 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. often induced by some surgical jn-ocedurc altliongh it may commence spon- taneously, begins with a severe rigor, followed l>y profuse sweating. The temperature may rise to 105° F. or 10(5° F. After the rigor it falls, but remains somewhat above normal. The rigors and sweating may be repeated more than once. The tongue becomes rapidly dry, red, and fissured, looking like a piece of broiled ham, and sordes accumulate on the teeth, 'There are complete loss of appetite, and rapid emaciation ; nausea is almost a constant symptom, and actual vomiting is common. Diarrhoea may occur. The patient soon sinks into a heavy drowsy state, often with contracted pupils, so that the condition may closely resemble that of opium poisoning. Tie can be roused and answers rationally if spoken to, and in most cases complains of little pain or discomfort. The temperature now usually falls, sometimes below normal, and the skin feels cold and clammy. In this form, there is usually some tenderness on pressing firmly in the region of the kidneys. As the case progresses, muttering delirium sets in, followed by more complete insensibility, but it rarely reaches a condition of absolute coma. Convulsions are extremely rare. There is no oedema at any time. The urine varies much. It usually becomes more or less bloody, and in rare cases is suppressed ; much more frequently a considerable quantity is passed up to the time of death. It is usually in such a state from decomposition and the presence of pus, blood, and mucus, as to render accurate chemical and microscopical investigation impossible. Pus-cells are constantly present, but whether they come from the kidney or the bladder in any particular case cannot be ascertained, unless they are found, as in rare cases they are, in the form of pus-casts. In some anomalous cases, diarrhoea forms a very prominent symptom. In one case that occurred in University College Hospital, the stools exactly resembled those of tyjDhoid fever, and the post mortem examination, in addition to suppuration of the kidney, showed ulceration of the lower part of the small intestine. Malherbe, who has written an admirable treatise on ursemic fever, describes a form of this disease in which secondary abscesses appear in various parts, the contents of which have an urinous odour. It is doubtful if this is not in reality a form of pymmia. The duration of an acute attack as above described, when terminating fatally, varies from a few days to a couple of weeks. In favourable cases, even after very marked symptoms, such as the rigors, dry tongue, vomiting, and diarrhoea, the patient may slowly recover. The immediate cause of death in many cases seems to be poisoning from absorption of the septic matter from the kidney rather than urmmia. Certainly the mode of death differs greatly from that of acute Bright’s disease, the profound coma and convulsions being very rarely present. 'The Diagnosis has to be made from pyaemia, peritonitis, typhoid fever, and ague. From pyaemia the diagnosis is somewhat difficult, the most important points being the vomiting, the absence of secondary abscesses, the drowsy state into which the patient soon falls, and the fact that the temperature often remains for days before death, below normal. The vomiting and extreme iUness may resemble the low, diffuse, painless form of peritonitis sometimes seen in affections of the bladder, but the vomiting has not the pumping character of that in peritonitis, and the elevation of temperature for the first few days is unlike that form of peritonitis in which the temj)crature is persistently low. Suppurating kidney can resemble typhoid fever only in rare cases, and