460 DISEASE OF THE IIIP.JOINT. Sayre (see Fig. 580). By means of this apparatus, extension is made from the thigh, and counter-extension from the pelvis, the apparatus Ijeing lengthened by a rack and pinion on the outer bar. It prevents the necessity of confine- ment to bed, and keeps the limb in a straight position. After all acute symptoms have disappeared, the joint may sometimes be con- veniently fixed by means of a leather splint, the starched bandage, or the plaster-of-Paris bandage. Of these I prefer the starched Ijandage as being more easily applied. The hip part must be strengthened with a piece of paste- board lined with calico, sufficiently long to extend down the whole of the Ijack of the thigh to below the knee, so as to support that joint also, and the spica bandage must be applied in repeated turns, otherwise the apparatus will not fix the joint. In applying this or any other apparatus, it is often necessary, especially in children, to administer chloroform, as the pain occasioned by the necessary movements may be too severe to be borne without it. When the disease has from the first been snb-acute, as is usually the case when it commences in the head of the femm*, the same treatment must be pursued, but it may not be necessary at any time to confine the patient to bed, or to have resort to weight extension. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on those principles already laid down in the chapter on diseases of joints in general. EXCISION OP THE HEAD OP THE THIGH-BONE AND OP THE HIP-JOINT. White of Manchester, in 1769, was the first to propose, and Anthony White, of the Westminster Hospital, in 1821, was the first to perform, excision of the head of the femur. This he did on a boy eight years old, who had had disease of the hip-joint for three or four years, and in whom the carious head of the thigh-bone rested on the dorsum ilii. Wliite removed the head and trochanters of the bone, and the patient recovered from the operation, dying of phthisis five years afterwards. The preparation is in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. This operation was repeated by Hewson of Dublin, in 1823 ; and then seems to have been forgotten in Great Britain until its revival, in 1845, by Fergusson. But in the meanwhile it had not entirely escaped the attention of Continental Surgeons. Oppenheim, in 1829, and Seutin, in 1832, excised the head of the femur for gun-shot injury ; and, in 1842, Textor published an essay on the subject. Cases requiring Operation.—Diseases of and about the hip-joint may, so far as the question of operation is concerned, be divided into two great classes —those in which no suppuration takes place, how'ever acute the inflammation may have been ; and those in which abscess forms. To the first class belong those cases in which the synovial membrane is primarily affected with subsequent implication of the cartilages and ligaments. In this form of coxalgia, the patient commonly recovers with a stiffened or even completely aukylosed, though useful and straight limb, dislocation of the head of the bone not having occurred. In such cases, I believe that excision is never needed ; at least, I have never had occasion to do it, nor have I ever seen a case that seemed to me to justify such a procediu'c. The second class of cases—those in which abscess forms—are by far the most numerous. In the great majority of these, however, the head of the 1 t i •1. r 1; ) -i 1 ib a (i i