OPEJRATIOXS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. 682 CHAPTER LIX. OPERATIONS ON THE ATR-TUBE AND ON THE CHEST. LARYNO-OTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY, Ihe ■\viiiclpipo may require to be opened to allow the formation of a temporary breathing aperture, in consequence of obstruction of the larynx by causes that are speedily removable ; or it may be necessary to establish a permanent opening in the air-passage in those forms of chronic laryngeal disease, in which the obstruction depends upon alterations of structure which are not remediable. Among the conditions requiring temporary a,pertnre, may be mentioned all acute inflammatory afPections of the larynx that give rise to obstructive oedema of the glottis ; also traumatic conditions, such as the impaction of masses of food in the gullet, inducing asphyxia, and not capable of being immediately removed ; scalds of the rima glottidis ; the presence of foreign bodies in the air-passage; and oedema of the glottis from wounds of the thyi’o- hyoid membrane. The establishment of a permanent apai'ture in the air-passage is especially required in chronic diseases of the larynx, attended by thickening of the mucous membrane, by abscess, or by necrosis of the cartilages—in fact, by aU such conditions as cause obstruction not admitting of removal; so also, in cases of epithelioma or warty growth of the larynx, a permanent opening below the obstructed point may be required. Opening the Windpipe in Membranous Laryngitis.—By membranous laryngitis is meant any form of inflammation of the larynx, accompanied by a coagulable exudation from the mucous membrane, forming a false membrane upon it, whether diphtheritic or not. It is not the place here to enter into the disputed point of the identity of croup and diphtheria. The exhaustive report of the able committee appointed by the Medico-Chirurgical Society in the year 1879 clearly demonstrates the fact that inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx with membranous exudation may arise, not only as a result of diphtheritic contagion, but as an accompaniment of measles, scar- latina, or typhoid, and occasionally from “ various accidental causes of irrita- tion—the inhalation of hot water or steam, the contact of acids, the presence of foreign bodies, and a cut throat.” It seems possible also that a similar condition may arise from simple exposure to cold. To all these cases the term membranous laryngitis may be indiscriminately applied, as it merely expresses an anatomical fact without implying any theory. The committee made the excellent suggestion that croiq) should be used merely as a clinical term implying laryngeal obstruction, occurring with febrile s}’mptoms in children, and not as indicating a special disease, of the existence of which there is no definite evidence. When the disease is evidently zymotic, and when the larynx is aflected by extension from the throat, the term ‘ diph-