635 CANCER OF THE TONGUE. I I >11- S 1 f or B 0 f i m I it will usimlly suflice to puncture the cyst and apply a strong solution of chloride of zinc to the interior. Fibrous Tumours have been met with in the tongue, but are extremely rare. Should such a growth be met with it may readily be removed by draw- ing the tongue forwards by means of a hook or piece of whipcord passed through its tip, and then dissecting it out. Any bleeding that occurs may be arrested by ligature, or by passing a suture by means of a curved or cork- screw needle across the gap in the course of the divided vessels, and thus closing the aperture at the same time that the vessels are compressed. Cancer of the Tongue.—Epithelioma is the form of cancer met with in the tongue. Scirrhus was formerly described as being common, and we are not now in a position to deny that it may occur, especially if the growth commences in the floor of the mouth, and arises possibly from the sublingual 'gland. It is however so rare, that it need not be further considered in describing cancer of the tongue. Epithelioma ahnost always commences on the edge, usually at the middle third, extending back to the anterior pillar of the fauces, but it may occur at the tip of the tongue, in the floor of the mouth, or, in rare cases, on the dorsum. It most usuallv occurs in individuals between the ages of 40 and 60. It is more frequent in men than in women ; according to Barker in the proportion of 247 to 46. It may develop without any evident cause in ^persons who are otherwise perfectly healthy, whose teeth are sound, and in whom there has been no pre-existing disease of the tongue ; but most com- monly it occui-s in consequence of local imtation, as from the abrasion produced by a broken tooth. In other cases, as before pointed out, it ' s preceded for some years by psoriasis or other chronic disease of the nucous membrane (p. 631). It may arise in an old syphilitic crack or mhealed fissure. If it appear in an otherwise healthy tongue, as a tubercle or .varty growth, this is usually flat, indurated, and of a purplish-red colour, '^dually running into ulceration ; if as a fissure, this from the commence- .nent has an indurated base, a foul surface, and a callous edge. As the dceration extends, a chasm with everted edges and ragged sides, and a sloughy urfcice that cannot be cleansed, gradually foims over a widely indm’ated base ; .here are great fcetor of the breath, and profuse salivation; and, as the disease : nogresses, implication of the mucous membrane and of the structures of the loor of the mouth, and of the glands under the jaw and in the neck, takes )lace. Sometimes the whole mass of the organ is infiltrated by the cancerous growth, becoming generally hard, nodulated, ulcerated, and in some parts uvered by thin red cicatrices, and in others by foul putty-like accumulations ■f epithelium. The pain is very severe in most cases : every movement of the ■rgan in articulation, mastication, or deglutition causes great suflering. The Fiction or compression hy neighbouring teeth, the profuse salivation, all ggravate the patient’s distress in this most agonizing disease. The pain is iOt confined to the tongue, but runs through all the branches of the fifth icrve over the side and crown of the head, to the face and the ear. The ymphatic glands under the jaw usually become involved at an early period; hough the disease may exist for a year or two without their becoming mplicated. Cachexy at last supervenes, aud the patient dies fr'om the con- oined effects of exhaustion, irritation, starvation, and poisoning of the /stem.