6i8 PLASTIC SURGPRY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. II mended by Nelafcon will be found to <,nve most excellent results. The mode of i^erforming’ it is fully explained by the accompanying figures. Double Hare-lip.—The operation for double hare-lip is i)erformed on the same principle as that for the single form of the disease, viz., of procuring union by adhesion between the opposite surfaces. The difference in the operations consists chiefly in dealing with the intermediate portion of the lip and alveolus (Fig. 708). The management of the intennaxillary process must vary according to its size and degree of projection. If it be small and rudi- mentary, or fixed to the tij^ of the nose, as in Fig. 709, it should be cut off with bone-niiDpers, as it would j)revent the lateral segments from coming into proper apposition. Most commonly, when this is done, there is free and even dangerous bleeding from a dental artery deep in the bone, which may require to be touched Avith a red- hot needle or . wire before the hgemorrhage from it will cease. If the central intermaxillary portion be large and projecting, it may be bent or broken back by strong forceps covered with vulcanized India-rubber. Fergusson, however, pointed out that if this be done the incisor teeth contained in the intermaxillary portion will, if they develope at all, project backwards into the roof of the mouth, as the bone is not pushed into its normal situation, but rather rotated on its transverse axis, the slender neck attaching it to the vomer being bent upon itself. He was of opinion therefore that in all cases it is better to remove the bone than to attempt to force or bend it into a new position. If it be large and not projecting, the soft parts should be well pared on each side, and transfixed by the hare-lip pins, and thus be interposed between and united to the pared lateral surfaces; indeed, it is always advisable not to remove this, unless it be awkwardly situated, as in Fig. 709. When it is left, though the union may not appear quite so perfect and unifonn as it would if the lateral halves had been directly united, yet eventually the case will turn out better ; the central portion becoming developed, and forming the natural mesial projection of the lip, which is lost when the lateral halves are directly united. In some of these cases great nicety is required in planning the incisions, and in the introduction of the sutures. The central portion is most advantageously pared in a somewhat convex manner, so that the freshly cut edges of the laterid halves arc more JFig. 70S. — Operation for Double Hare-lip. Right side of Li]) drawn down by Spring- hook Forceps: long narrowKnife entered at angle : dotted line shows direction of the Incisions. I • I i t ) I?