934 UlilNARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 2. Tlio Amorphons Ph&qjhate of Lime is deposited whenever the urine becomes alkaline, whether from tlic administration of alkaline drnf(s,,fi-om the presence of alkaline mnens in large quantities secreted from an inflamed bladder, or from the formation of carbonate of ammonia from decomposition. It very rarely forms a concretion alone. Excess of phosphates is met with in some forms of disease of the nervous system, but unless the urine be at the same time alkaline it docs not form a deposit. Amorphous phosphates are very fr’eqnently passed a few hours after a meal, during the so-called “alkaline-tide” in the urine, especially about eleven or twelve o’clock after a heavy late breakfast. This occurs more readily if the actual amount of phosphates be in excess. The causes of this condition are not very clear, but the alkalinity can easily be shown in many cases to be due to the presence of alkaline carbonates, the urine effervescing vigorously on the addition of any acid. It is frequently associated with late hours and over-work. The patient is often much alarmed by the appearance of the phosphates, as they usually come at the end of micturition, forming a white cloud in the stream which he may take for seminal fluid. If the phosphates are very abundant they often hang about in the urethra, and may cause severe smarting or burning pain after micturition. The condition is easily detected by examining the urine. The white heavy deposit looking almost like pus disappears immediately on the addition of a little acid. 3. Mixed phosphates are usually met with in all cases of disease of the bladder with ammoniacal mine, as in the cystitis following an injury to the s^nne, or in advanced cases of prostate disease. Calculi.—Pure phosphatio calculi are very rare, if we exclude those soft concretions that form in a foul bladder. They are commonly composed of mixed phosphates in varying proportions. If the proportion is about two parts of the ammonio-magnesian to one part of the j)hosphate of lime, it fuses readily into a head before the blow-pipe, and has hence been called the fusible calculus. This calculus is friable, laminated, and has a chalky or earthy look. The ammonio-magnesian calculus is less common. It may be beauti-_ fully crystalline in structure. The phosphate of lime calculus is still more rare, as the amorphous phosphates seem to show but little tendency to agglomerate into a concretion. The few that have been met with are laminated and harder than the other phosphatic stones. Treatment.—The treatment of the deposit of phosphates is in most cases purely local, decomposition of the urine being prevented, and the bladder kept clean by those means that will be described in the chapter on cystitis. The passage of amorphous phosphates may be treated by avoidance of over- work and late hours, and by exercise in the open air, a few days of which treatment will usually cause a complete disappearance of the symptoms. Tonics, especially nitric acid or nitro-hydrochloric acid and tincture of mix vomica are often of use. Cystine is one of the rarer forms of morbid product occasionally met with in the bladder. It differs from all other ingredients in contaiuiug a large quantity—about 26 per cent.—of sulphur. It is very rarely seen as a sediment in the urine ; but when it occurs in this form it presents the microscopic characters seen in Fig. 830, being composed of hexagonal laminie. The causes which lead to its formation are uncertain, but the tendency to it is often hereditaiy. Calculi containing cystine have occasionally been met