796 HERNIA. Avould not easily cut an artery ; and lie will find, if lie blunt the edge of his hernia-knife by drawing it over the back of the scalpel, that it will still be keen enough to relieve the strangulation, whilst it will push before it any artery that may happen to bo in the way. Sloughing- of the Sac is of rare occurrence, and, when it happens, is commonly attended by fatal results ; it is not, .however, necessarily so. It has twice hapjiened in my practice ; and in both cases the patient recovered. In an old woman on whom I operated for femoral hernia of very large size, the sac sloughed away, exposing nearly the ivhole of Scarpa’s triangle with almost as much distinctness as if it had been dissected; but, although in much danger for a time from an acute attack of jicritonitis, she ultimately recovered. Artificial Anus and Faecal Fistula.—When an aperture exists in the bowel by which the whole of the intestinal contents escape externally, the condition is denominated an cori'ifidal anus. When but a small portion so escapes, the greater part finding its way through the natural anus, a faxal fistula is said to exist. The quantity of feculent discharge necessarily depends upon the extent of destruction of the intestinal coats ; and its character on the part of the gut that is injured. The escape takes place involuntarily, and is usually continuous. This condition may occur in several ways. Thus the gut may be accident- ally woimded during the operation, and the feces may afterwards continue to be discharged through the aperture so made ; or it may have been gan- gvenous, and have given way into the sac before the operation; or the Surgeon may have intentionally laid open a gangrenous portion of intestine, so as to facilitate the escape of the feces. In some cases in which the bowel has been severely nipped, and is dark and congested, though it have not actually fallen into a state of gangrene, it may not be able to recover itself after its return 'tj into the abdominal cavity, but will give way in the course of three, fom-, six, W or even ten days after the operation. In these cases, a small quantity of ^ feculent matter is fi.rst observed in the dressings ; and gradually a greater dis- f charge appears, until at last the fistulous opening is completely established. ‘ In such cases, it is of importance to observe that, although the bowel gives way within the peritoneal cavity, the feces do not become extravasated into this, but escape externally. This important circumstance is owing to the fact of the jDortion of the bowel that is nipped losing its peristaltic action, and consequently remaining where it is put back; whilst the parts in the neighbour- hood inflame, throw out a coagulable exudation, and become consolidated to each other and to the parietal peritoneum, so as to include the gangrenous portion of the gut, and completely to circumscribe it. It is consequently of gi’eat importance, in cases of this kind, not in any way to disturb the adhesions that have formed between the sides of the aperture in the gut and the neck of the sac. The Pathology of Artificial Anus is commonly as follows. The (idges of the’’'| {ipei’tm’e in the gut become firmly adherent to the abdominal wall; and : whether the whole or a portion only of the calibre of the intestine be destroyed, the apertiu’es of the upper and lower end, though at first lyi”o almost in a continuous line, soon uuite at a more or less acute angle. I hose are at first similar in size, and present no material differences in shape or a]ipcarance : as the disease becomes more chronic, they gradually alter in their characters; the