K.EVI IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS. 75 na3viis, and constitutes a somewhat formidable disease. A large purple tumour is situated over the anterior fontanellc, rising and tailing with the pulsations of the brain communicated to it, and becoming distended and tense when the child cries. Tlie tnmonr is evidently close upon the membranes of the brain, and this olleu deters practitioners from interfering Avith it; and I have not uiifrecpiently seen cases in which the parents of the child haA'C been counselled not to allow any operation to be practised, lest death should result. Yet this tumour, so formidable in appearance, and so deeply seated and close upon the brain, may be removed with jDerfect safety hy the ligature. I have often tied nmvi iiijthis situation, and have never seen any ill consequences, not even a convulsive fit, occur. The danger, then, from the mere strangulation of the tumour in this situation cannot be great; but there is another and a special danger, viz., the risk of Avounding the membranes of the brain in passing the ligatiu’es under the base of the tumour. If nmvus needles or shai’])-pointed instruments of any kind be used, this accident Avill be very likely to occur ; and, if this Avere to happen, inevitably fatal consequences Avill ensue. This accident may ahvays be avoided by operating in the folloAving Avay. A puncture is made in front of the tumour through the healthy scalp. An eyed probe, armed Avith a double ligature, is then pushed through this opening across the base of the tumour, and its end is made to project on the opposite side beyond it; here another punctiu-e is made, and the probe and ligatiu’e together are drawn through. The same procedure is adopted across the tumour sideways. In this way, a quadi-uple hgature is passed across the tmnour in two opposite directions : the ends are then disengaged, and the ligature is tightened in the ordinary Avay. Naevi of the Face are of very common occurrence, and usually cause much disfigurement. The treatment to be adopted necessarily varies greatly, accord- ing to the nature of the nmvus, Avhether cutaneous, subcutaneous, or both ; and especially according to its situation. The same plan, Avhich is advan- tageously adopted in one part, may be altogether inapplicable in another. We shall, accordingly, consider the treatment of these vascular growths, as they aflect the eyelids, the nose, the cheeks, and the lips. Naev-as of the Eyelids is usually cutaneous, consisting of a discoloration or staining, as it Avere, of the lid, without any material swelling. Such a disease is, I think, better left untouched; it cannot, of course, be remoA'ed either by the knife or by caustics, Avithout producing Avorse results ; and, as the skin is ahvays deeply involved, milder means are inoperative, or possibly equally destructiA’e. I have.heard of sloughing of the eyelid being occasioned by the use of astringent injections ; though, if the nmvus Avere subcutaneous and constituted a distinct tumour, passing perhaps into the orbit, destruc- tion of the growth by electrolysis is the safest and most efficient mode of treatment. NaBAms of the Nose may occur in tAvo situations—at the root, or toAvards the aim and apex. When seated at the root of the nose, upon the bridge, or at the lower part of the forehead, betAveen and perhaps extending aboA'e the eyebrows, it is often subcutaneous, and may attain a very considerable magni- tude. In cases of this kind, I have found the quadruple ligature the readiest means of removal; and although the part included may be of large size, the resulting cicatrix is Avonderfully small and narroAv, usually becoming horizontal, so as to fall into the folds of skin naturally existing in that situation. In the