459 THOMAS'S SPLINT FOR IIIP-DISEASE. vertical bar, three curved transverse bars of soft iron about ^ inch thick, by 1 to f inch, are hxed as in Fig. 584. The upper of these should be of suflicient length to embrace the chest about as far as the nipple on each side. The middle bar should be immediately below the curve for the buttock in the ver- tical bar. If it be placed too low, the splint is more apt to twist round and allow of flexion. The whole apparatus is padded with a thin layer of felt, or flamiel, covered by leather. The splint is applied in such a way that the curved part of the vertical bar lies midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter major. The curved parts are then bent so as to fit the chest, thigh, and leg comfortably. A strong piece of bandage is passed through the rings in the ends of the chest-piece, and tied firmly. A broad body-bandage of swan’s down calico, or flannel, is then wound round the vertical bar, so as to get a good hold of it, and then carried two or three times round the body. A narrower bandage is then applied to the thigh and leg. If the patient is to walk about, braces of strong calico must be fixed to the chest-piece, and carried over the shoulders, otherwise the splint will slip down. If there is much flexion, the splint may be bent foi’wards immediately below the buttock curve to a degree a little less than that of the limb, which may be allowed to lie upon it with the knee slightly bent. In this position it is secured by a few turns of bandage round the thigh and leg. In a few days, if the patient be kept on his back, the weight of the limb will have extended the hip, so that the whole leg is uniformly in contact with the splint, which may then be straightened a little ; and this is repeated mitil the flexion is corrected. The Fig. 586.—Sayre’s Extending Apparatus for Hip-joint Disease. vertical bar must never be bent opposite the knee. If there is much adduction, it is often convenient to twdst the vertical bar, so that its anterior aspect looks very slightly ouUvards from below the buttock. These alterations in the shape of the splint must be earned out by the Surgeon himself with strong iron wrenches made for the purpose. A little experience is required in the manipulation of these splints, but the necessary skill is easily acquired, and will well repay the Surgeon for the trouble involved in so doing. The splint must be worn con- tinuously day and night till all symptoms have subsided, often for one or two years. In walking with crutches, the patient is raised by a patten on the foot of the sound limb, so that the opposite foot does not touch the ground (Fig. 585). Should suppuration take place, Thomas’s splint is still the most con- venient apparatus, as it leaves the parts uncovered in which the abscesses point. One great advantage in Thomas’s splint, is that under the superin- tendence of the Surgeon, any common blacksmith can do the iron-work, and any sjuldler the padding, and it is thus equally available for country or city practice. A very ingenioiLS extending aj)paratus for hip-joiiit disease, at any period of its development, from the earliest to that of abscess, has been invented bh