710 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. the milk usually undergoes changes, becoming creamy, thick, and oily ; and . in some instances it would appear to leave a solid caseous residue by the absorption of its watery parts. In other instances the' millc appears as if diffused through the substance of the gland and its ducts, constituting a i spongy semi-fluctuating tumour. Velpeau has pointed out that these lacteal deposits undergo a series of changes, somewhat similar to those that take place in blood that has been extravasated ; becoming absorbed wholly or in ■; part in some instances, in others remaining fluid, and occasionally Ijecoming surrounded by a distinct flbrous wall. Treatment.—In these cases, the tumour may be got rid of, as Sir A. Cooper advises, by making an oblique puncture from the nipple towards it, by means of a trochar and cannula, so that a fistulous track may be left, along ;> which the milk is discharged ; the child being at the same time weaned, so that the secretion may cease. In most cases it is better to make an opening ;; through the skin and to treat the cyst by drainage. INPIiAMMAO?ION OP THE BBEABT. Inflammation of the Breast may take place at any period of life. In |! new-born infants redness, and swelling of the breast is sometimes observed, ,;: with some discharge from the nipple. It usually subsides without suppuration ! | • in a few days. In childhood it occurs as the result of accidental causes, and also |;; just before or at puberty. It is sometimes met with in boys as well as in girls, ^; i as a consequence- of the general development of the organs of reproduction. ', ’ In these cases it is easily subdued by the application of glycerine and bella- I •: donna ointment. Far more frequently it occurs during lactation in feeble and ; i anaemic women. It is commonly met with during the first month or two after ; i the birth of the child, and seldom occurs during weaning, but may, as Xunn i \ has shown, be the consequence of unduly prolonged suckling, and thus appear at a late period—the tenth or eleventh month. Inflammation may affect any ' one of the constituents of which the breast is composed, and may be limited to this : thus it may take place in the nipple ; in the subcutaneous areolar tissue lying between the skin and the gland ; in the gland itself ; or in that ; extensive plane of areolar tissue upon which the gland rests, and which ! intervenes between it and the pectoral muscle. But, although inflammation commonly affects these different parts, in many cases the whole of the breast appears to be involved, and no distinct implication of any special tissue can be made out. Inflammation of the Nipple and Areola.—When the nipple and areola are inflamed, these parts become conical, red, and swollen, with much pain, owing to the density of the subcutaneous tissue in this situation. This affec- tion, “ the cracked nipple ” of nurses, usually occurs at an early period of lac- tation in delicate Avomen, and especially with the first child. It commences in the follicles of the part, being accompanied by superficial ulceration, abrasion, and fissures, Avith oozing of a small quantity of thin sero-puriforin fluid. There is great pain during suckling—so great, indeed, as to prevent the proper continuance of this act. It is usually attended by a good deal of constitutional irritation. In some instances, the fissured state of the nipple Avould appear to jArecede the setting in of inflammation ; in other cases, the inflammation is the primary condition. In Avet nurses the possibility of the