ANEURISM. 102 as marked as its dilatation, and is always Teiy,considei-able. Thus the arch of the aorta may bo increased in lengtli by some inches, with a considerable space between the origins of the innominate, the carotid, and the subclavian, at the same time that its walls are greatly thickened, nodulated, and rugged. Some- times several tubular or fusiform aneurisms are met with in the same vessel, with healthy portions of the artery between them. From these dilatations, sacculated aneurisms not uncommonly s])ring. On examining the structure of a fusiform aneurism, it will be found that it is composed of an expansion and outgrowth of the coats of the artery. The thickness of the wall is maintained by growth from the inner and outer coats, the middle coat being stretched and atrophied in proportion to the size of the aneurism. The inner coat presents the changes already described as resulting from endarteritis ; it is stiff, rugged, and tuberculated from the formation of atheromatous patches, and frequently calcareous plates are scattered over its smface. The outer coat is thickened and composed of dense fibroid tissue. Microscopic examination shows that the middle coat is thinned in proportion to the degree of dilatation. If the aneurism is of any considerable size, gaps are found here and there in which the middle coat is wanting, the diseased inner coat coming into direct contact with the thickened outer coat. No coagula are found in the dilatation, but a few filamentary shreds of fibrine are occasionally seen to be attached to the inner wall. The arteries that are usually the seats of fusiform aneurism are the arch of the aorta (Fig. 441), the iliacs, thefemorals and occasionally the axillaries. This particular form of aneurism occurs most generally in vessels in which the yellow elastic coat is largely developed, and hence is rarely met with in arteries smaller than the femoral: it occiu’S, however, in the basilar artery of the brain. The fusiform dilatation, especially when seated in the arch of the aorta, may attain a very considerable magni- tude, and may consequently exercise very injurious pressure on contiguous parts, thus producing great distress and danger of life. It is usually extremely chronic, increasing very slowly, and being compatible with existence for many y.ears; but it usually destroys the patient at last, and may occasion death in several ways. Thus, if it be situated in the aorta death may take place from syncope. This may be caused by the failure of the inelastic aorta to fill the coronary arteries during the diastole of the heart, or from imperfect supply of blood to the brain. Then, again, death may result fr’om pressure on important parts, as on the bronchi or oesophagus. Wlien, however, a tubular aneurism of the arch of the aorta occupies the intrapericardial portion of the vessel, it not unfrcquently happens that, owing to the absence of a sheath in this situation, the artery may rupture. It most Fig. 441.—Large Fusiform Aneurism of Aseend- ing Aorta bursting into Pericardium. . 4.-