DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 726 not depressed. If one of the larger cysts be laid open, or if the pressure of * the intra-cystic growth causes inflammation and ulceration of its capsule, this ■, may at last be perforated, and a fungous mass will sjjrout fbrough it, ])i-esent- ,■, ing many of the ordinary symptoms of a malignant growth ; being irregulai’, i, dark-coloured, bleeding readily, and increasing rapidly in size. When such j changes as these have taken place, the tumour assumes a formidable cliaracter, | and will rapidly prove fatal by exhaustion. A eysto-sarcoma may attain an ! j, immense magnitude and weight. They have been met with of six, eight, or !'■( even twelve pounds weight ; but by far the largest is one described hy | 1 Velpeau, which weighed forty pounds. 1 The eventual development of fimgatingsarcomatous tissue in these tumours !;r must not be overlooked. A tumour of this kind may remain benign for many i * years, and remain so generally throughout the greater portion of its structure; yet after removal soft sarcomatous masses may be found sprouting up into t some of the cysts. In the case from which the drawings (Figs. 773, 774) | were taken, the tumour had existed for more than twenty years before j removal, having commenced at the age of twenty-eight; but after extii^pation J Fig. 773.—Ulcerated Cystic Tumour of Breast, of 20 years’ duration. Fig. 774.—Tire same Cystic Tumour, six montlis later, witli fuugating sarcomatous gi'owtli. soft fungating growths were found at the bottom of some of the cysts. The constitution was uncontaminated throughout. There is no Treatment for these tumours but early and complete removal. If taken early enough, the mamma can usually be saved, but when the gro^vth has passed a certain size, this is no longer possible. Sarcomata of the Breast.—The mammary gland or its immediate neighbourhood is a frequent seat of sarcoma. By far the most common form met with is the spindle-celled sarcoma, usually of the large-celled type. Sometimes the firmer forms of spindle-celled sarcoma, with small cells and a varying amount of fibrous stroma—the old recurrent fibroid—is met with in this region. Small round-celled sarcoma, alveolar sarcoma, and giant-ccllcd sarcoma, are also met with in this region, but are all rare. The structure of these various forms of sarcoma has already been fully described in the Chapter on Tumours (Vol. I., 90G). Most sarcomata of the breast are distinctly encapsuled by a layer of fibrous