862 DISEASES OF THE LAllGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. II There is one point in connection witli the perineal operation to whicli it is of much importance especially to attend, not only as respects the immediate resnlt of the operation, bnt as re^’ards the nltimate success of tlie procedure ; I mean the bringing- down of the mucous membrane of the gut, and fixing it to the lips of the external wound. Unless this be done, tile line of incision between the termination of the gut and the aperture in the integuments will degenerate into a fistulous canal ; which, like all fistulm, will have a tendency to contract, and will be a source of endless embarrassment to the Surgeon and to the patient. If the mucous membrane can be brouglit down to and fixed to the opening in the integument, this source of inconvenience will be removed, and the patient Avill be saved all that danger which results from the passage of the meconium over a surface of recently incised areolar tissue. This, however, can be done only when the intestine terminates at a short distance from the surface. If the perineal incision be two or three inches in depth, there will be little probability of the Surgeon being able to bring the intestine down to such an extent. In one case in which I attempted to do so, I found that the gut was too firmly fixed to be removed by any traction that it would have been safe to employ. For some considerable time after the operation, the aperture should be kept dilated by means of bougies ; or a gum-elastic or pewter tube, through which the fseces are allowed to escape, may be fixed in the part. I have several times operated in this way on imperforate children ; but in all instances unsuccessfully. In one case, there was an anal aperture, but with complete occlusion of the rectum. I operated on the fom*th day, first attempt- ing to reach the gut through the anus ; but, failing in this, performed the lumbar operation on the left side. If it could be ascertained before proceeding to operate, that the rectum is absent, it might be wiser to search for the bowel in the lumbar or iliac region. But, as the Surgeon has no means of ascertaining, before making his incision, whether the rectum be one inch or three inches from the sm-face, he must cut into the perinmum in order to obtain the necessary information ; and if once he have penetrated to such a depth as to pass beyond the levator ani muscle, or into the deep fascim in this situation, a great portion of the innnediate danger of the operation will have been incurrred, and few would think it advisable to leave the perineal operation unfinished, and expose the child to the additional risk of opening the colon in the lumbar region. Yet if he have gone as deeply as he dare venture, and have not encountered the bowel, there is no alternative but to open the intestine through the abdominal waU, or to leave the child to its fate. In this alternative, tlie Surgeon must either open the colon in the left iliac region or in the left loin. Iliac Incision.—The advantages claimed for the iliac incision, or Littre’s operation, are, that it is easy of performance, and that whether the Surgeon reach the colon or not, he is certain to hit upon some part of the intestinal tube, which may be drawn forwards and opened. The ohjeciwns raised are— that the artificial anus is in an inconvenient situation, that there is danger of peritonitis, as the peritoneum is necessarily wounded, and that the sigmoid flexure may not present in the wound, and a jJortion of small intestine may be opened instead. These objections are not, however, quite so great as they at first appear. The artificial anus being situated in front has the advantage, that the patient can easily pass his motions into a properly shaped curved pan i) ) II ( I , h Ijt ii I