32 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. of it, that wounds of the hands and feet, and more especially of the ball of the thumb and of the great toe, are more likely to be followed by tetanus than those in other situations. I think the truth of this opinion may be doubted ; though it is not improbable that tetanus may occur more frequently after injuries of these regions than of other parts of the body, simply because punctured and lacerated wounds are more common here than elsewhere. It cannot well be supposed to be owing to the tendons and fasciae that abound here, as Hunter imagined ; for it is seldom, if ever, met with after operations for tenotomy, which are so commonly practised on the feet. The statistics of the American Civil War are very complete on this point. Of 505 cases, 21 followed wounds of the head or neck, 55 of the trunk, 137 of the upper extremity, and 292 of the lower. Of the 137 wounds of the upper limb which were followed by tetanus, all but 4 were above the nTist; and of the 292 of the lower extremity, only 57 were of the foot. These statistics do not therefore justify the popular belief that wounds of the hand and foot are par- ticularly prone to be followed by this affection. Tetanus may occur in all constitutions—in the strong and robust, and in the feeble and emaciated. It is especially apt, however, to occur in feeble and debilitated individuals, and, indeed, may be looked upon as a disease of debility; hence any condition that lowers the tone of the nervous system is especially likely to occasion it. When it occurs in persons who are otherwise strong and in the prime of life, it will be found that they have been exposed to causes of depression influencing the nervous system. It is loss of nervous tone, and not muscular weakness, that disposes to this disease. Thus, in tropical climates, as in some of the West India Islands, and amongst the marshes of Cayenne, it occurs with peculiar frequency, the most trifling scratches or punctures being followed by the disease. Poland, who has exhausted the statistics of tetanus, states that the mortality from it is in London '025, whereas in Bombay it causes 2*5 per cent, of the total deaths. It is interesting to observe, that the natives of hot climates are far more liable to this disease than Europeans resident there. In the American Civil war, 3*1 per cent, of the cases occurred amongst the negro troops, who furnished only 2*7 per cent, of the total number of -wounds. In 7nilitary practice tetanus is of common occurrence. Its frequency varies much in different campaigns and under different ch’cumstances, season, and climate. In the Peninsular War, it was estimated to occur in the proportion of about one case in every 200 wounded; in the Schleswig-Holstein war of 1849, according to Stromeyer, once in about 350 cases. In the Crimea it appears to have been of rare occurrence. Alcock’s estimate of one to every 79 wounded is evidently too high. In the American war it occurred in 0*2 per cent, of the wounded. After naval engagements, however, the mortality has often been high, more particularly if they have taken place in tropical climates. Sir G-. Blane states that, after Rodney’s action in the I\'est Indies, out of 810 wounded 20 were attacked with tetanus, being one in 40. All European Army-Surgeons are agreed, that sudden changes from heat to cold are amongst the most frequent causes of tetanus amongst the wounded. Thus Larrey states that, after the battle of Moskowa, although the number of wounded was immense, there were few cases of tetanus, the heat being very great and continuous ; whilst after Bautzen, where the wounded were left on the field all night exposed to severe cold, more than 100 had tetanus ; and