SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 12 and the gap left may be filled in by some of those plastic processes that will be described when we come to speak of the Plastic Surgery of the Face. 3. When the ulcer has attained a large size, when it is complicated in its outline, and irregular in its depth, the question arises whether surgery olfers any resource, or whether the patient should be left slowly and miserably to die. In these extreme cases even, something may be done to prolong life and to relieve suffering, even if no cure be ultimately to be expected. Moore proved that, unless the brain be implicated, or some large vessel involved, something can usually be done at least to arrest the rapidity of the growth. The method which he adopted was a combined use of the knife and of chloride of zinc. By these means he removed in some cases the whole of the affected parts, leaving a huge chasm in the face, and even in one case exposing the dura mater for a considerable extent over the roof of the orbit. The operations were done on no regular plan, the incisions being directed solely by the shape of the growth, and no attempt being made to repair the deformity left. The results of these operations were, on the whole, favourable. Out of six cases three recovered, and three others received decided benefit, but were not permanently cured. In all the cases in which the chloride of zinc came into actual contact with the dura mater, epileptiform fits occurred, but only of a temporary character. When the disease is situated in an extremity, and the cancellous end of a bone especially is involved, as when it dips into and erodes the head of the tibia or the lower end of the radius, amputation would be the proper and only advantageous procedure. When the disease is so extensive, or so situated, that absolutely nothing in an operative way can be done, the Surgeon must content himself by covering up the raw surface with lint soaked in glycerine and water, and protected by oiled silk. Iodoform, either dusted on or applied as an ointment, composed of one drachm of the powder to an ounce of vaseline to which a small quantity of eucalyptus oil may be added, will usually be found the best application. Cancer of the Skin may be either primary or secondary. Primary Cancer, if we exclude the Rodent Ulcer, always assumes the form of the Squamous Epithelioma. The structure and history of this has aheady been described. It is usually seated about the lips, face, and scrotum, and at the orifices of the mucous canals. It may in rare cases arise from malignant transformation of an atheromatous cyst (p.969,Vol.L). Epithelial cancer may In this way it may occur upon almost any part of the body ; I have seen it on the back, breast, fingers, hand, thigh, and sole of the foot. It then forms a foul ulcer, the floor of which is grey or sloughy, and often covered with large warty granulations and protuberant masses. The base is indurated, the edges raised and everted, and often papillary in stracture (Fig. 420). The discharge is thin and scanty, and unless the sore is treated by antiseptic applications it becomes hondbly offensive. Fig. 420.—Cancerous Ulcer of the Leg. originate also in an old scar or ulcer.