CAUSES OF BEAT If AFTER LITHOTOMY. 975 '1. Diffuse intliiiumatioii of the areolar tissue around tlie neck of the bladder ind prostate arising from pyruhing and Over-distension ol the parts during the •xtractioii of a large calculus is, 1 helieve, a more frequent occurrence than ntiltration of urine, and fully as fatal. This sequence of lithotomy is especially ipt to occur in those cases in which, in consequence of diseased kidneys,.or the ‘xistence of other org-anic mischief, the patient is more than usually liable to he supervention of diffuse iuHammation. In the extraction of large calculi, considerable traction is required, and force mist be exerted ; hence undue bruising and laceration are very apt to be nflicted upon the parts that constitute the line of incision. It is in this way hat the danger of lithotomy increases almost in exact proportion to the size >f the calculus : for here the Surgeon is often placed between the horns of a lilemma. He must either cut beyond the limits of the prostate, and thus neur the risk of inducing urinary infiltration into, and diffuse inflammation )f the pelvic fascia3 : or else, by limiting his incision to the gland, and .hus, having an aperture of insufficient size, he may inflict severe injury yj the bruising and laceration of parts during forcible and possibly pro- • onged efforts at extraction. It must, however, be borne in mind that, the .arger the stone, the more probability is there of the existence of old-standing’ ilisease of the bladder or kidnevs, and of an unfavourable result from this •:*ause. Crosse has drawn up a table that shows very strikingly the influence ■jf the weight or, in other words, of the size of a calculus on the results of i ithotomy. He fomid that when the stone was one ounce and under in weight, che deaths were in the proportion of 1 in 11 •25 cases. When it was fi-om 1 to ? ounces in weight, there was 1 death in G’Gl cases: when from 2 to 3 ounces. U death in 2’18 cases: when from 3 to 4 ounces, 1 death in 1-57 cases: Avhen ’Toni 4 to 5 ounces, 1 death in I’GG cases. This table, which has been con- idnicted on the results of 703 cases, illustrates very clearly these facts, that the •operation for the removal of a large calculus is far more dangerous than that «:br the extraction of a small one, and that the danger increases in the direct .•atio of the size of the stone. The symptoms of diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue arising from this •cause very closely resemble those from infiltration of urine, and the treatment must be conducted on precisely similar principles. Peritonitis may occur after lithotomy, as a consequence of the extension of inflammation from the bladder or the pelvic areolar tissue to the serous membrane, from wound of the posterior part of the bladder, or from extension of inflammation fr'om a sacculus of the bladder to its immediate investment of ‘X'ritoneura. To one or other of these conditions, more especially inflamma- ;ion of the pelvic fascim, it will always be found to be secondary. Sloughing.—In feeble and cachetic persons, especially in those who arc he subjects of phosphatic calculi, the \\ouiid will often assume a slougliv ioiidition, and heal slowly, and its surface may beconm coated by phosphates, fn such c-ascs a liberal allowance of stimulants will be required, together wdth l^he local application of compound tincture of benzoin ; and, in order to .facilitate healing at a more remote period, a solution of nitrate of silver may '•'C applied to the wound. The phosphates maybe removed by injection of die dilute nitric acid lotion. Pyaemia and Septicaemia arc not uncommon causes of death after litho- '■•my. Acute scpticfcmia is usually the immediate cause of death iu diffuse