236 8PECIAL ANEVlllBMS. wliicli this TGSSol was tied for hfeinorrhag-c, 18 proved fatal ; tlie majority of tlie recoveries took place after operation for aneurism—^silicll constituted about half of the cases. dMie Old Operation has been performed in more than one case of iliac aneurism, ^Yllen from s])ccial circumstances it was not possible to tie the artery above the sac. In Symes’ well-known case the sac was laid open and three ligatures applied, which were believed to include the external, internal, and common iliac arteries. The patient practically recovered, but died of pleurisy some months after before leaving tlie hospital. The post-mortem examination showed that the ligatures had been jdaced on the external iliac only, 8ir Astley Cooper attempted the same operation in the case in which he subse- quently tied the aorta. Heath laid open the sac of an iliac aneurism which had been opened by mistake for an abscess before being admitted into University College Hospital. The external iliac was tied from within the sac, but the patient died from secondary hemorrhage. The old operation can only be performed when it is possible to compress the aorta above the sac ; and consequently, as Holmes points out, an attempt should be made to effect a cure by compression before so dangerous an operation is attempted. Treatment by Compression has been successfully applied to aneurism of the iliac arteries. The compression must be applied to the aorta by means of Lister’s tourniquet, as in the treatment of aneurism of the abdominal aorta (p, 22G). A considerable number of cases have now been cured by these means. They have already been referred to when treating generally of the subject of compression of the arteries for cure of aneurism. Jilurray insists on the importance of complete arrest of the circulation in these cases, so that not the slightest current of blood should pass through the sac. One of his cases was cured in three-quarters of an hour. One of Heath’s (of New- castle) consolidated in twenty minutes. Lawson in one case applied two tour- niquets—one to the abdominal aorta, the other to the femoral below the sac. The abdominal tourniquet had to be removed at the end of twenty mhiutes, owing to collapse and vomiting; the femoral one was maintained in position. When the abdominal compressor was removed the pulsations had already diminished, and at the end of four hours they ceased; the patient making a good recovery. Holmes has collected 10 cases of iliac or ilio-femoral aneurism, treated by this method; of these, 7 were cured, and in 3 the treatment failed. These 3 afterwards underwent ligature of the artery leading to the sac—in one. case the abdominal aorta—and all died. These statistics clearly show that no operative treatment is justifiable, except after the failure of com- pression. Ligature of the Aorta.—It is impossible not to contemplate with admi- ration the man whose mind was the first to conceive, and whose hand was the first to carry out, the determination to apply a ligature to the abdominal aorta; and who, guided by pathological observation and physiological experiment, ventured to arrest at once the circulation through the main channel of supply to the lo^ver half of the bodjq trusting to the collateral circulation for the maintenance of the vitality of the parts thus suddenly deprived of blood. Sir A. Cooper was the first to place a ligature on the aorta, in 1817, Since that period the operation has been six times performed for aneurism ; viz., by James, of Exeter ; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope ; by !Monteiro, at Rio .Janeiro; by South, of London; by McGuire, of Richmond, U.S.; by