662 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. hysterical temperament. It is possil)le for it to occur without evident organic disease or change of any kind. But I believe that the simple and pure uncom- plicated hysterical stricture is of very rare occurrence. In the majority of instances it will undouhtcdly he found to be dependent u])dn some local chamre of structure, most commonly of a simple kind, such as chronic inflammation of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, ulcerative abrasion of it, or follicular inflammation about the epiglottis and posterior part of the larynx. The disease in many cases is supposed to be dependent on or to have been occa- sioned by the swallowing of some foreign body, as a fish-bone, bead, bristle, &c., which after many months is still thought to be impacted. This is almost always erroneous. The foreign body may have been swallowed, and may have been the starting-point of the slight inflammation or ulceration that occasions the dysphagia, but it has long since disappeared, leaving merely a series of troublesome consequences in its train. The obstruction is generally high up in the pharynx, rather than in the oesophagus ; being produced by tlie contraction of the constrictor muscles. The dysphagia is intermittent; when the patient’s mind is allowed to dwell long on the affection, and she becomes anxious about it, then the difficulty is gveatly increased; whilst at other times, when her thoughts are diverted from it, food passes easily. It will be found : also, in these cases, that on attempting to pass a probang or large bougie, its i progress will at first be resisted, but, by patiently and gently pressing down \ upon the stricture, the instrument will soon pass easily. 2. Fibrous Stricture.—There are two kinds of organic strictm’e of the : oesophagus—namely, the fibrous and the cancerous. Between these the dia- gnosis is often very difficult; strictures originally fibrous sometimes becoming the seat of a malignant growth; while others continue fibrous to the end. The fibrous stricture is scarcely ever idiopathic. It may, possibly, arise from contraction of the scar left by a syphilitic ulcer; but it almost invariably ; originates from the cauterization of the interior of the oesophagus by the ^ accidental or suicidal swallowing of some corrosive fluid, acid or alkaline, i as the strong mineral acids or soap-leys, by which the mucous membrane j is destroyed, charred as it were, and a cicatrix as of a burn forms. This j gradually contracts till at last almost total occlusion of the gullet may ensue. : The etiology, in fact, is an important element in the diagnosis, the fibrous | stricture being almost invariably the direct result of escharotic action, the ( cancerous occurring without assignable cause, or being referred to some slight | form of local irritation. Generally, on passing an instrument, we find that in | the simple or fibrous stricture it goes smoothly, and gives no sensation of I roughness, no feeling of lacerating its way, or as if it were passing over an i ulcerated surface ; no blood follows its withdrawal, and the patient does not bring up pus, or blood, though there may be copious mucous discharge, i There is no material enlargement of the neck, no swelling of the cervical glands, no sign of the cancerous cachexia. The fibrous cicatricial stricture may occur at any part of the oesophagus. It is usually situated towards the middle. 3. Cancerous Stricture.—Cancer in the oesophagus alwa^'S assumes the form of epithelioma. It is situated usually high up, most commonly rather in the pharynx than the gullet, immediately behind the larynx. Between that point and the cardiac orifice cancer it is much more rare. At the cardiac orifice the oesophagus may become implicated in cancer, usually scirrhous, cominenciug