ILEMOrniLIA—PATHOLOGY. 8i I? f-5’ character, if they can possibly be avoided. Above all, the extraction of teeth must he avoided. It is after this sliji^ht operation that the most nncontrollable ' land fatal hemorrhages have occurred. The hemorrhages, though usually traumatic, may be spontaneous ; they then usually proceed from the nose, bowel, kidney, or subcutaneous connective tissue. In women they assume the character of profuse and nncontrollable menorrhagia. The hemorrhages are accompanied by the symptoms described at page 389, Vol. I., as characterizing excessive loss of blood ; and after their cessation the patient remains anemic usually for many weeks or months. The quantity of blood lost is often ■ j enormous, amounting in some cases to several pounds in the twenty-four houi-s. The tendency to bleeding is chiefly from recent wounds or healthy mucous membranes, and sometimes does not occur from diseased surflices from which it presumably would be likely to happen. Thus a member of one of the three families of bleeders, who have been frequently inmates of University College Hospital, died lately of phthisis, with large cavities in the lungs. A few I ••■weeks before his death he had nearly died of haemorrhage after the extraction I eof a tooth, but he had never suffered from serious haemoptysis. In another case the patient passed through an attack of typhoid fever without serious aaeraorrhage. In another a large slough formed in the skin after the applica- :ion of perchloride of iron, cold and pressure to arrest haemorrhage from a punctured wound of the leg, yet the slough separated, and the large granu- lating sore healed without any recurrence of the bleeding. Foimerly it was supposed that females were exempt from haemophilia. But AVickham Legg, to whom we are indebted for an excellent monogi’aph on this ?ondition, states that this assumption can no longer be maintained, although Tomen are far less disposed to the disease than men ; that they present few nstances of the more typical forms of the disease ; and that it is less fatal n them than in men. Alost of the fatal cases in women have occurred *y haemorrhage from the genital organs, and Legg quotes a case fr’om A'achsmuth, “ where the rupture of the hymen on the marriage-night caused ■he death of the bride from htemon-hage.” A frequent symptom accompanying this diathesis is a painful and sudden veiling of one or more joints either occurring spontaneously, or as the result ‘f some slight injury. The swelling is the result of an effusion of blood and y'liovia into the synovial membrane. It is usually accompanied by some ight febrile disturbance. It may last only a few days or may endure for lonths. The joint is often permanently weakened, aud relapses are frequent uring the cure. Pathology.—Little if anything is known with certainty about the nature ^ this peculiar affection. It has been stated that in some cases the inner oat of the arteries has been found abnormally thin, and degenerative changes live Ixjen ob-scived in the endothelium, but the observations are not sufflciently umcrous or uniform for any theory to be founded upon them. From the ifluence exerted by cold in the an-est of the bleeding, it may be reasonably •ispected that a want of projier contractility in the arteries may have some ifluence in causing the bleeding. AVitli regard to the condition of the blood, irying statements have been made; it has been said to be watery, defleient corpuscles, and uncoagulable. In the cases however which have been Imitted into University College Hospital, the blood in the earlier stages of VOL. II.