rEIiSISTIiXCE OF SYMPTOMS AFTER REDUCTIOX. 7S1 > 1 1 it III the large heniiie of old people, more particularly the iiinhilical, in which lore is a good deal of flatus, after the enema has been administered, a bladder f ice may be applied for three or four hours witli excellent effect. Chloroform lay then be given, and the taxis employed under its influence. Of late years, ideed, 1 have lx;en in most cases in the habit of trusting almost solely to hloroform as a relaxing agent, and have often dispensed with the use of even lie warm bath. If, however, this can bo conveniently used without too much clay, it should be employed. After this, I put the patient at once under hloroform, and then try taxis for a period nob exceeding half an hour ; this fail, the operation should bo done without making any further attempts i reduction, Avhich are not only useless, but injurious by bruising the pro- ruded parts. After taxis has been fairly employed for a sufficient time, and has not ucceeded in reducing the hernia, the operation must be proceeded witli. fiiere are few Surgeons who will not at once acknowledge the truth •f the remark of the late Hey of Leeds—that he had often regretted jcrfomiing this operation too late, but never having done it too early. : t is true that cases are occasionally recorded, in Avhich after four or five ays of treatment the hernia has gone up ; but it is very rare to meet with uch cases in practice ; and, in all probability, in delaying the operation in the tope of finding one sueh case, the lives of dozens of patients would be sacri- iced. TiUke has shown, as the result of the experience at the London Hospital, hat the ratio of mortality increases greatly in proportion to the length of time lurino: which the strangulation is allowed to continue. Of G9 cases of strane-ii- ated hernia operated upon within the first 48 hours of strangulation, 12 died, >r 1 in b'T ; ivhilst of 38 cases operated on after more than 48 hours had lajised, 15 died, or 1 in 2‘5. Indeed, one chief reason of the greater mortality rom operations for hernia in hospital than in private practice, probably arises rom the fact that much valuable time is frequently consumed before assistance s sought, or in fraitless efforts to reduce the swelling before the patient’s .dmission. Xot only is time lost in this way, but the boAvel is often bruised ind injuriously squeezed, so that the inflammation already existing in it is •onsiderably increased. Moreover, at the present time the improved methods if treating Avounds, especially those implicating the peritoneiun, have so far liminished tlie dangers of the operation that the great reason for hesitation ia.s bc-eii remoA-ed. The mortality in operations for. strangulated hernia per- ■(irmcd within tAventy-four. hours of the descent of the gut, Avith antiseptic orecautious, or even Avith common attention to cleanliness, is so small, that it nay be said to be almost inconsiderable. Persistence of Symptoms after B,eduction.—After the reduction of the leniia. the symptoms of strangulation may continue unabated. This unto- kvard occurrence may arise from fiA'e distinct conditions : 1. The hernia may lave been reduced in mass {Vide p. 810, Yol. II.) 2. An internal strangu- ation has existed Avithin the sac, the taxis having overcome the external stricture, but failing to influence that Avithiii. 3. The gut may liaA'c been M) severely niiipcd or strangulated for so long a time, that as soon as the con- striction of the vessels is relieved, the phenomena of acute inflammation manifest themselves, Avitb comjdcte arrest .of ])eristaltic moA’cment. This condition, as before stated, may end in gangrene. 4. The sac may be of an hour-glass shape, lying partly within the abdomen and jiartly outside, and in