niSUASBS OF THE MOUTH ANJJ THROAT. 656 tcristic of the advanced stages of the disease. The most serious effect is tlie impediment to inspiration, which in the more chronic and severe forms of enlarged tojisils Avill go to such an extent as to prevent the full inflation of the lungs, and thus occasion a permanent flattenijig and contraction of the chest, imperfect aeration of the blood, and an interference with general nutrition. The Treatment of chronic enlargement of the tonsils will vary according to the age of the child, and the degree and kind of hypertrophy and indura- tion of these organs. In the earlier and slighter forms of the disease, the enlargement of the tonsils may gradually subside as the child grows older and stronger ; and it is well not to be in too great a hurry to excise the tonsils in young childi’en, but rather to adopt a course of constitutional treatment with the view to the improvement of the general health, by means that are ordi- narily had recourse to in the management of struma. The internal use of iron, and the local application of the tincture of iodine, of nitrate of silver, or of burnt alum, are occasionally serviceable. In the majority of instances, however, the disease will not be materially infl.uenced by any therapeutic means that may be adopted : and as the enlargement, continuing or increasing, gives rise to difflculty in respiration, and thus interferes with the due arterialization of the blood in the lungs, and impairs the child’s speech, it becomes necessary Fig. 743.—Removal of Eiglit Tonsil with left hand. to remove that portion of the growth which projects beyond the arches of the palate. This may best be done by the ordinary tonsil-guillotine. The ring of the instrument being passed over the tumour, the cutting blade is pushed forwards, and thus a slice of the projecting part of the gTowth is removed. In sorhe cases difficulty is experienced in bringing the tonsil fairly into the ring of the instrument; this may be obviated by di’awing it through with a vul- sellum or double hook, and indeed, in some of the machines sold for the pur- pose, a double hook is attached, which, being fixed into the tonsil, draws it fonvards before it is sliced off (Figs. 740—742). In performing this operation it is best for the Surgeon to stand behind the patient, more particularly in excising the right tonsil, as he can thus look better into the mouth and have more command over the head ; or he may stand in front, and use the left hand for the right tonsil, and vice versa (Fig. 74.3). Should a guillotine not be at hand, the tonsil may be remov-ed by seizing it with a vulsellum, drawing it forwards, and then taking off a slice with a probe-pointed bistoury, the base