DISEASES OF JOINTS. 354 from altered blood-clot or fibrinous exudation into the synovial cavity. They arc much less common in joints tlian in sheaths of tendons or syjiovial bursa3. 2. Fmgmenlii of true cariilcuje. These may be developed in two ways, fii-st, from the formation of cartilao-e in the hypertrophied fringes of a warty synovial membrane. In the normal condition a cartildge-cell is present in many of the secondary papillm of the fringes, and it is easy to understand how this can form the starting point of a cartilaginous growth. In other cases, Billroth believes that they are ossifying cartilaginous growths formed in the fibrous layer of the synovial membrane in rheumatoid arthritis (p. 340), which have subsequently become loose by the wearing away of the superficial layers of the membrane. This mode of origin is somewhat doubtful. These cartilages are usually flattened, with a lobulated irregular border, and frequently contain true bone in their central parts; sometimes they may be partly calcified, but contain no true osseous tissue. They may attain a size of more than one inch in their greatest diameter. They are usually single, but occasionally four or five may be found in the same joint. There is strong reason to believe that these cartilaginous bodies may increase in size after : becoming loose in the joint. 3. Numerous cases have been recorded in Avhich the loose body was i undoubtedly a piece of one of the articular cartilages broken off by mechanical, violence. These present the ordinary appearance of articular cartilage, and may usually be recognized by their having one smooth surface, while thei opposite side has small gritty fragments of bone attached to it, which havei been torn from the cancellous tissue beneath. They are always single. Loose cartilages of all kinds are most commonly met “with in the knee, buti not uncommonly occur in the elbow or the joint of the lower jaw, and occasionally in the shoulder. Symptoms.—The severity of the symptoms will to a great extent depend, upon the mobility of the loose cartilage, and its consequent greater or less^j: liability to be nipped between the opposite articular surfaces in the movementsli; of the joint. When these bodies are tolerably firmly attached to the synoviall i membrane, they may merely occasion weakness of the joint, with occasional!^ synovial effusion. When loose they usually give rise to a very distmet tramp of symptoms. The most marked of these is the very severe pain which occursjn in particular movements of the limb. This comes on suddenly, and is often» so intense as to cause faintness or sickness. It is usually followed by a degreeji'. of synovial inflammation, and by relaxation of the ligaments. These attacksfc of pain and of sudden irritability of the part come on at varying intervals, as the result of movements of it: they commonly happen in the knee whilst the|*i patient is walking. It is difficult to say to what this severe pain is due. Richet thinks it may be owing to the synovial membrane being pinchedj between the foreign body and one of the articular surfaces. I think that it is most probably due to the foreign body being dravn in between the opposite surfaces of the joint, when these are separated anteriorly in the act of flexion of the knee, and then, when the limb is extended, acting as a wedge between these, tending to keep them separate and interfering with the complete straightening of the limb. In consequence of this wedge-like action of tlm i loose cartilage the ligaments are violently stretched, and the sickening pain consequent on this act is experienced, followed, as happens in a violent sprain, by rapid synovial effusion. The sensibility of the ligaments of a joint is of