RECTO-VESICAL AXD SUPRA-PUBIC LITHOTOMY. 985 1 prostate, or the bilateral gorget (Fig. 871), invented by J. ood, of New I York, may be pushed along the staff, and the soft structures between it and I the surface incised as it is Avithdrawn. If the stone be not very large, the in- 1 cision may be confined to one side only, and made with a probe-pointed i bistoury. It will be found that sufficient space is obtained by the perpendicular j incision of the skin ; whilst the limited internal transverse cut removes that j tension and resistance of the deeper structures, Avhich in the ordinary median I operation interfere seriously with the manipulation of the I forceps and the extraction of the stone ; and, by the division |j of both sides of the prostate to a limited extent, abundance of -space is obtained. Experience has shown, however, that the advantages are rather theoretical than practical, and that its performance in this country has been attended by unsatisfiic- tory results ; two of the principal dangers being Avound of the ; rectum, and tearing through the sphincter. Many other modifications of the median and the bilateral operations have been practised by varying the direction of the external incision, and by making the internal one on one or both sides of the prostate, or by notching this structure in various directions. Recto-vesical Lithotomy.—This operation Avas suggested by Sanson in 1847, as a means of removing large stones and avoiding the dangem of haemorrhage, but the results have not been such as to justify its performance in preference to other methods. It is thus performed. A staff grooved on its con- vexity is passed into the bladder, the finger is then passed into the rectum, and the part of the staff lying in the membranous •portion of the urethra felt for ; a knife, with its edge directed : forwards, is then passed along the finger into the groove of ;the staff and withdrawn, dividing the internal and external >sphincters and the skin at the margin of the anus; it is then reintroduced with its edge directed downwards, and run along the groove of the staff, ' diAiding the prostate and notching the neck of the bladder, and the stone is [then extracted in the usual way. High or Suprapubic Operatiox.—Although the median and lateral < operations for lithotomy are perhaps the safest for the extraction of stones ■ of small or moderate size, yet there can be no doubt that their results are extremely unfavourable when the calculus exceeds a certain magnitude ; and in these circumstances it may be deemed expedient to perform the “ high operation ” in preference to them. It is fortunate, hoAvever, that large calculi are comparatively rarely met Avith, and will doubtless become more rare, as the ' diagnosis of stone can now be made at a very early period of the existence of i fthe calculus, and as the treatment is now generally preventive. Thus, of the I|T703 Norwich cases, that form the basis of Crosse’s tables, and indeed of our chief information on these j)oints, r>20 Avere under ] ounce in AA^eight; 110 Avoighed from 1 to 2 ounces; So from 2 to S; 11 from 3 to 4; 5 from 4 to 5; '■and only 4 were above this size. Hence, if we confine the high operation to those instances in which the calculus is above such a size as Avill readily admit of extraction through the perinmum, Ave shall seldom liave occasion to perform it; yet instances occasionally occur in Avhich no other method of extractiim Fig.sn.—Wood’s BUateral Gorget.