972 uinxAn V CA lcul u.s axd litjiotom r. Chcsclden only lost I in every lOf ; and, according to South, at St. Thomas’s the mortality has not amounted to more than J in ‘Jj ; l)ut a good many of these patients wore probably children. Sir lb Brodie states, that of the 59 cases operated on in all the London Hospitals in the year 1854, 10 died; making the mortality as nearly as possible 1 in 0. ' But the more recent ami extended statistics collected by Thompson, show that the average mortality in the London Hospitals is 1 in According to Ooulson the average mortality in England, deduced Iroin 1,743 cases of the lateral operation, is 1 in C*93 cases': Avhilst in France it is 1 in 5*7 ; and for Europe generally 1 in 5'14. The more recent statistics .of Sir H. Thompson shoAv a more favourable result for lateral lithotomy in England. He finds that out of 1,827 recorded cases there were 229 deaths, or nearly as possible 1 in 8. Klein states that, of 4,480 cases of lateral lithotomy, in Moscoav, there Avere 552 deaths ; the mortality thus being nearly the same as in England. The per centage of deaths after lithotomy in the adult will doubtless lx? found gradually to increase with the increasing use of lithotrity. This must not be referred to any defect in the method, or to want of skill in the performance of lithotomy, but to the fact that, instead of, as heretofore, being the general method of removing calculus, it has uoav become the exceptional one. Almost all cases of small and moderate sized calculi in men Avith otherAvise healthy urinary organs are now subjected to lithotrity, whilst those cases in Avhich the stone is too large, or the kidneys, bladder, prostate, or urethra too diseased, to admit of this mode of operating, are reserved for lithotomy ; and as the mortality after this operation increases in the exact proportion to the size of the stone and the disease in the urinary organs. Ave must expect that, when its performance is confined to persons Avitli large calculi, irritable bladders, enlarged prostates, diseased kidneys, oi’ strictured nrethrm, a higher per centage of deaths will follow it than Avas the case when all favourable cases, and not the unfaA’ourable ones only, Avere subjected to it. Age exercises a more marked influence on the result of lithotomy than any other condition. Lithotomy may be looked upon as one of the most successful operations in surgery at early periods of life, a hazardous one in middle age, and an extremely dangerous one in advanced age. At the KorsA'ich Hospital, lithotomy has been found to be four times as fatal in men as in boys. Coulson finds, on analysing 2,972 cases of lithotomy, that the mortality at each successive decennial period is as folioavs. BeloAV 10 years it is 1 in 13, and thence gradually augments from 10 to 80 years to 1 in 9, 1 in G, 1 in 5, 1 in 4, 1 in 3'65, 1 in 3’23, and 1 in 2‘71. The reason of the small mortality after lithotomy in boys, as compared Avith adults, is most probably that the urinary organs, more especially the kidneys, are healthier than in the adult. Hence, when boys die after lithotomy, they do not usually perish from the same causes that prove fatal in the adult, viz., kidney-disease and diffuse pelvic inflammation and infiltration; but the fatal result is generally the consequence of some accident having occurred or A'iolence been inflicted during the operation, such as by mistaking the rccto- A^esical space for the interior of the bladder, the tearing across of the urethra and non-extraction of the stone, Avounding of the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, or perforation of the back of the bladder by the point of the scalpel. It is by these accidents usually that death happens in boys that