DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 658 difficult, fluids only being a])lo to pass. In sucli cases some relief may occasionally be given by careful division of some of the tight cicatricial bands Avhich narrow the fauces, followed by the passage of bougies. tSonietiines the soft palate becomes adherent to the posterior wall of the pharynx, completelv shutting ofi:‘ the nasal cavity. For this condition nothing can be done, as is impossible to set the soft palate free, and an opening through it would only add to the patient’s discomfort. Erysipelatous Pharyngitis is occasionally met with, accompanied Ijy grave constitutional disturbance ; it is best treated by the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver, the use of emollient gargles, and the internal administration of ammonia, with bark, stimulants, and support. If it have a tendency to run to sloughing, the internal administration of tlie mineral acids, with bark and stimulants, the nitrate of silver lotion, and chlorinated gargles, are useful. Sometimes abscess forms in the substance of the velum, and then requires to be opened with a iiarrow-bladed bistoury. Abscess occasionally forms in the areolar tissue behind the pharjmx, between the vertebral column and its posterior wall, which is consequently pushed forward so as to occlude the posterior nares, gmng rise to a peculiar nasal intonation of voice, if the abscess be situated high ; if low down, the consequences are more serious, as it may interfere with respiration by pressing upon the upper part of the larynx. This kind of .abscess is often connected with disease of the bones at the base of the skull, or of the upper cervical vertebrm. In many cases, if left to itself, it would burst through the mucous membrane into the mouth ; but in others it comes forwards under the sterno- mastoid muscles into the fore part of the neck. By exploring the phar\Tix with the finger, which may readily be done, tension and fluctuation through its posterior wall may easily be made out. In these cases the Treatment consists simply in letting out the inatter by puncturing the tense membrane covering it. This may be done by means of a sharp pointed bistoury properly protected, the ordinary abscess-knife, or a pharyngotome (Fig. 744). The pus let out is usually offensive, even though the bones be not affected. If there is reason to believe the abscess is connected with disease of the cervical spine an attempt should be made to open it exter- nally, as described in the Chapter on Diseases of the Spine (p. 434). Tumours are occasionally met with in the postpharyngeal areolar tissue, giving rise to the same swelling, difficulty in respiration and deglutition, and lateral projection, as occur in abscess of this region. These growths are mostly malignant, and speedily prove fatal. Potypi in the pharynx usually come down from the nasal cavities, but sometimes spring from the inside of this canal on one or other of its margins. They are usually, when truly pharyngeal, of a malignant character, and grow with great rapidity. The uses of the part arc necessarily interfered with, and death may eventually result from obstruction I i i 11 •i a 1 • '»\ I ■ : I I