OF THE COMMON CAROTID. 169 it being arrested, and that only traversing it whicli is destined for tlie supply of the branches of the subclavian. It is by no means improbable that even this stream may yet be too large and forcible to allow the process of occlusion to take place, yet it is impossible still further to diminish it ; and if the aneurism be sacculated, and project from one side of the innominate artery, particularly to its internal or mesial aspect, it is by no means impossible that it may be sufiiciently removed from the stream to allow consolidation of its contents. Does it add to the danger of the patient to ligature these two vessels simultaneously rather than separately ? I think not. If the risk of a double operation is to be incurred, I cannot think that it would be positively increased by the two being perfomied at once, instead of at separate intervals ; the whole of the vessels that serve to maintain the collateral circulation in the head and upper extremity being left without interference. And the result that has followed the limited number of these operations corroborates the justice of this opinion, for we find that the patients recovered from the operations in fifteen out of the twenty-one cases. The result of these fifteen cases, so far as the aneurism itself was concerned, was not altogether unsatisfiictory when the otherwise hopeless nature of the disease is taken into consideration. In seven the patient derived great and unmistakable benefit, and in the remaining eight there is no reason to believe that the operation hastened the progress of the case towards death. So far, then, as actual results go, it is evident that the chances are decidedly against the patient’s deri-\ang any benefit from the operation, and at the same time it must not be forgotten that aneurisms of the innominate artery have been cured by palliative and constitutional treatment. It does not seem justifiable, there- fore, to resort to the distal ligature till these means have had a fair trial. If, however, rest, diet, and medical treatment fail to arrest the progress of the disease, the amount of success obtained from operative interference has been quite sufficient to encourage a repetition of it in well-selected cases. ANEUKISM OF THE CAKOTIE ABTERY. AneurismaJ Varix of the Carotid Artery and of the Jugular Vein, as the result of punctures and stabs in the neck, has been met with in a sufficient number of instances to establish the signs and treatment of such a condition ; and an instance is related by Mackmurdo, in which a communica- tion was established between these vessels as the result of disease ; but I am not acquainted with any case of Varicose Aneurism of these vessels having been recorded. The Signs of aneurismal varix in this situation present nothing peculiar ; and the Treatment must be entirely of a hygienic character, no operative interference being likely to be attended by any but a fatal result. It is the more desirable not to interfere in these cases, as the disease does not appear to shorten life. Spontaneous Aneurism of the Carotid is not of very unfrequent occur- rence : in Crisp’s table of bol aneurisms, 25 were of the carotid ; and it ranks in order of frequency between those of the abdominal aorta and of the sub- clavian. It occurs more frequently in the female than any other external aneurism ; thus, of the 2r> cases alluded to, 12 were in women, owing probably to it seldom Ixiing the result of violence, but generally arising from disease of