872 DISEASES OF THE LAIWE lETESTINE AMj A FES. Sarcomata of the Rectum are very rarely met with. Rokitansky has described a nodular form of spindle-celled sarcoma. I have seen such f^owths forming large and’somewhat pale tuberous masses pi-ojecting into the interior of the gut and even protruding through, the anus, giving rise to the same train of local symptoms as characterize cancer of the gut, but with less pain. In such cases as these the disease may, if limited or pedunculated, be removed by the dcrasenr. By means of this instrument I have removed from the inside of the gut a tumour of this kind nearly as large as the fist. Recurrence may of course be expected, but the i3atient will get relief for a time. Papillomata.—Large papillomata, the papillm of which branch repeatedly and are covered by columnar epithelium, are occasionally met with in the rectum. They closely resemble cancer, but are recognized by their sIoav growth and by their being pedunculated. They cause haemorrhage and some obstruction of the bowel. They can be readily removed by the ecraseur or by ligature, and seldom return. Polypi are by no means uncommon in children, and should always be looked for when a child passes blood from the bowel, and suffers from prolonged iiTita- tion, perhaps associated with prolapse of the rectum. They are sometimes fibrous in structure, smooth on the surface, and covered with columnar Fig. SOS.—Polypus of the Eectum with Pedicle, Fig. S09.—Polypu.s of the Eectum cut open, removed from child 7 years old. showing cysts lined hy Columnar Epithelium' epithelium. In other cases they are lobulated (Fig. 808) or papillaiy, and may contain cysts lined with columnar epithelium (Fig. 809). They are easily removed by the application of a ligature, or by twisting the neck if it be long. In adults similar growths are less commonly met with. They are most common near the anus, and in some cases are found associated with a small intractable ulcer at the point at which the free end touches the gut. They are best removed by ligature of the neck, after which the body may be cut away. RECTAL PISTULiE. Fistulous openings occasionally occur between the rectum and the bladder in men ; or between the gut and the vagina in women. Recto-Vesical Fistulae are not of common occurrence, and usually result either fr’om organic disease of a cancerous character, establishing a communica- tion between the rectum and the bladder ; or from a wound of the gut during the operation of lithotomy. In rare cases they may arise from tubercular abscesses in the vesiculas scminales or prostate, establishing an opening into the rectum and l)ladder simultaneously. In these cases the urine escapes pp}‘ cinum in'gi’eater or less quantity, occasioning constant irritation or c.xcoriation, with a sort of liquid diarrhoea ; and the wet state in which the patient is kept