617 OPERATION FOR IIA RE-LIP. i I r. i, n 1, 3 1 0 t I § I l * k: ii from one pin to the other, great caution must he used not to draw the two pins together horizontally, lest puckering of the line of union take place. The pins are then eut short, the whole is coated with a layer of collodion, and a piece of plaster is put under the ends of the pins to prevent excoriation ol the skin. In addition to the pins and twisted suture, I invariably introduce one point of interrupted suture through the mucous membrane of the lower part of the fissure, just inside the mouth ; and I look upon, this as of great importance in preventing the notching, which is otherwise very apt to occur, in consequence of that portion of the incision between the lower pin and tlie edge of the lip being kept open by the child in sucking, or protruding its tongue against it. At the end of from 72 to 9G hours, according to the age of the child, the pin should be withdrawn, or it may be removed by a gentle rotatory movement, in such a way that the cut end does not tear or lacerate the aperture in the lip. The threads, matted together with exudation and a little blood, form a good crust, which may be left on for two or three days longer, and then allowed to separate of itself ; the less any crusts that form over the line of incision are interfered with, the better will the result usually be. The lip may, if thought desirable, be supported by a strip of American rubber or other adhesive plaster, which should, indeed, be continued for about a fortnight after the operation, so as to prevent stretching of the cicatrix and notching of its lower part. The point of interrupted suture may be left in for about four days. It sometimes, though rarely, happens in single hare-lip that the intermaxillary portion is so large and projecting, that there is difficulty iii bring- ing the lateral segments together over it. Should this be the case, the better plan is to notch it at its alveolar border on the side that is not fissured, and then to break it back so a.s to remove all projection, and the child restless, so that there is danger of the parts being dragged upon during its screaming or crying, it is a very good plan to apply the spring cheek-compressor, invented by Hainsby, here represented slack (Fig. 700). It must fit the child accurately, and commonly requires to bo made specially for the case. If it is not obtainable the cheeks may be drawn together by a juece of muslin cut so as to form a large rounded piece in each cheek connected l)y a narrow strij) over the bp. This must be applied while the cheeks arc pressed together with the fingers and sealed down with collodion. Amcricau rubber-plaster may be applied in the same way. AVhen the fiasure does not extend through the lip the operation recom- Fig. 70(5.—Hare-lip: Siiring Check-comiiressor. If the fissure be wide