902 mSJ^JASES OF TILE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. of the rectum is seldom much swollen and very rarely becomes strangu- lated. The Causes of prolapsus of the rectum in children are various. It is com- mon in connection with dysenteric diarrhoea, especially in weakly children. The irritation of worms is one of the most frequent causes. Polypus of the rectum is an occasional cause, and is easily recognized by the protrusion of the tumour with the bowel. Stone in the bladder is most frequently accompanied in children by some protrusion of the bowel dm-ing the straining to pass water. On the other hand, an extensive prolapsus may cause irritation of the bladder in a male child and thus simulate stone. Treatment.—As the protrusion consists of the whole bowel, it is evident that any operative interference would be accompanied by danger of wounding the peritoneum, and is consequently unjustifiable. Superficial cauterization and removal of pieces of mucous membrane have been recommended, l)ut they are never necessary. In the vast majority of cases the tendency to prolapsus speedily disappears if the cause be removed. Tonic medicines, especially u’on, regulation of the bowels by mild aperients, and the administration of a mode- rate quantity of unstimulating food will soon relieve it if due merely to weak- ness. If worms are present salt and water or quassia injections will soon get rid of them. If there is any urinary distiu’bance the child should be sounded for stone, the removal of which will at once cure the prolapsus. Tlie pro- lapsed bowel should in all cases be bathed with cold water, and then reduced by gentle pressure with some oiled rag. Should it become strangulated, a condition of extreme rarity, an attempt must be made to reduce it by pressure but if this fails it must be allowed to slough off, while opium is administered to relieve pain and aiTest any action of the bowels. In this way it may safely separate without the occurrence of peritonitis. Protrusion of an Ovarian Cyst from the Anus occurred in a unique case recorded by Stocks of Salford. The cyst, which was the size of a cocoa- nut, was removed by incision through the coats of the bowel, which were forced out before the tumour ; and after the wound had healed, the gut was returned.