^054 DIHEx\SEH OF THE E ROST ATE. periiifBuin, or even into the rectum. In many cases, the abscess prcsentiii«- on the urethral surface of the prostate is burst dui-ing tlie introduction of tlie catheter, used for the relief of retention of urine induced by the pressure of the tumefaction ; the matter escaping along the side of and tlirough the instrument. Treatment.—It not unfrequently happens that the first certain indication afforded to the Surgeon of the formation of a prostatic abscess is the escape of pus by the urethra, or mixed with the urine, so as to give this fluid a thick milky appearance. In such circumstances, the only available treatment istliat which is directed for the relief of the strangury and local vesical irritation on ordinary medical principles, such as have already been described. But if, as sometimes happens, the pus come forward into the perinseum, then a more decided line of treatment is requh'ed. In these cases a hard brawny mass will be felt lying deeply on the side of the perinaeum ; and into this a deep incision should be made. The Surgeon must not wait for fluctuation, but must cut deeply in the direction of the matter, keeping, however, as nearly as po.ssible in the mesial line, with the back of the knife towards the rectum. Even if no pus escape at first, it may do so if the part be well fomented for a few hours ; and thus communication with the urethra or rectum may be prevented. When the abscess points towards the rectum, and fluctuation can clearly be felt by the finger in the bowel, it may be opened in this situation. To do this, the bowels must first be thoroughly opened, and the rectum cleaned mth an enema. The patient is then anesthetized and tied up in the Lithotomy position, the pelvis being well raised on a pillow. A duck-bill speculum is then passed, and the fiuctuating spot explored with a good-sized aspirator ngedle. If pus is found, a scalpel may be pushed in ; the opening is then dilated with a pair of polypus-forceps and a drainage-tube inserted. The tube falls out in a few hours, and need not be replaced as the cavity usually closes rapidly as soon as the pus is let out. If the incision be limited, and kept as nearly as possible in the middle line, there is no hEemorrhage of any consequence. Hetention of Urine from Prostatitis.—In prostatitis, retention may occur fi’om the swelling of the organ, from the infiltration of exudation-matter around it, or from the formation of pus in it. In these cases the neck of the bladder will be carried to a considerable distance from the surface, and may very probably not be reached by an ordinary catheter, which may be biuied up to the rings and yet not enter the cavity of that organ. In these circumstances a silver prostate-catheter should be emp)loyed ; and this must be carefully introduced, lest, by entering the cavity of an abscess which has already buret per ureihram, it might be supposed to have entered the bladder itself. lu introducing the instrument in these circumstances, care should be taken to keepD its point constantly in contact with the upper surface of the urethra, and to hook it round the pubes. The upper surface of the urethra is a sure guide to the bladder; for any abscess, false passage, or irregularity of direction will ahvays first affect the lower aspect of this canal, being surrounded by yielding structures ; whilst the upper part, being firmly supported by bone and liga- ment, cannot so readily alter its direction. Chronic Inflammation of the Prostate may follow the acute affection, especially when it is gonorrhoeal. The patient is troubled by a sense of iveiglh and fulness in the perinreum, and there may be an occasional glairy discharge