160 SPEC IA L A NE U 111HMH. II coa^yiilatiiio- its contoiits by thrastino- coils of iroii-wii'c or cat^mt iuto its interior, but it need scarcely be said that in no case has any permanent success attended snch procedures. The rapid solidification of a lar>'-e aortic aneurism is not unattended by danger ; so long as the contents are fluid the patient goes on fairly well, but if tliey rapidly solidify the pressure of the tumour leads to great distress and rapidly hastens the patient’s death. The mode of treatment which has been more frequently adopted in aortic aneurism than any other is galvano-puncture; and in well-selected cases this may be productiA'e of considerable good, or even occasionally lead to a complete cure. In 27 cases of aortic aneurism thus treated, which have been collected by John Duncan, o were cured, 10 relieved, 9 unrelieved, and 8 died. Experi- ence has shown that with the latest improvements in the operation—well insulated needles and a suitable battery—there is scarcely any danger to life, and that, even where it does no good, it does no harm. It has been applied in all stages of the disease, from the time when the tumour becomes sufficiently superficial to allow the safe introduction of the needles, to the time when it has perforated the chest-wall, and is on the point of bursting. In one of John Duncan’s cases, the life of the patient Avas undoubtedly prolonged for nearly tlmee months after the time at AAdiich, if left to itself, the aneurism would have burst externally. The cases best suited for galvano-punctm-e, and in which even a cure may be occasionally hoped for, are those in Avhich the tumour is of slow groAvth, has not yet perforated the chest-AA'all, and in Avhich it can be diagnosed as sacculated and communicating with the aorta by a comparatiA'ely small opening. It is important also that the patient’s health should not be too much broken by suffering or visceral disease. When the tumour projects through the parietes of the thorax, forming a secondary sac outside, the pros- pect of cure is infinitesimally small; but even then, progress may be delayed, and much relief given to the patient. If the tumour have become diffused, as may occur Avhen it points in the back, galvano-punctm’e can only do harm by increasing the tendency to inflammation and suppuration akeady existing. For the details of the operation, see page 149. There is one point in the treatment of some forms of aortic aneimism, that falls within the province of the Surgeon, and on which his opinion may be sought. I mean the advisability of opening the windpipe, to relieve the patient from the distress occasioned by the laryngeal spasm that commonly attends many of these cases. The decision of this question is always an anxious one ; for it must be borne in mind that, as the disease that occasions the spasm of the larynx is necessarily and inevitably fatal, the opeiution can be expected to give only temporary relief, and at most but a brief prolongation of life. In determining this question, the Surgeon must bear in mind that simple laryngeal spasm is rarely, if CA-er, the cause of death in aortic aneurism ; that, although the patient may suffer greatly from this complication, he does not die of it; but that the ultimate cause of death is usually intrathoracic pressure, rupture of the sac internally or externally, or exhaustion. The operation, therefore, Avould be justifiable in those cases only in Avhich it could be deter- mined that the spasmodic dyspnoea Avas purely laiyngeal, and AA’as not depen- dent on compression of the air-passages Avithin the chest by the aneurismal tumour, but simply on the irritation produced by the inqfiication of the left <■ I , I j I ‘1 \ I'l ff <. j'l