241 OF THE DEEP FEMORAL.—TREATMENT. expand ; ^Yhile the central portion of the artery is closely snrroniided on all sides by inuscular masses, and is very unlikely to be dilated into an aneiirismal tumour. AVe find also that the inguinal portion of the vessel is closely and tirmly invested by a dense and resistant fibro-areolar sheath, and is well sup- ported by the fascia lata; whilst in the popliteal space the artery is sur- rounded merely by the ordinary areolar sheath, and receives no aponeurotic support. This difference in the connections of these two parts of the vessel may, to a certain extent, explain the greater frequency of aneurism in the ham than in the upper part of the thigh. Axeurism of the Deep Femoral Artery is of extremely rare occurrence; indeed, I am acquainted with five cases only. One of these occurred in a young man under my care in University College Hospital in 1S70. I'licre was a large tumour at the upper part of the thigh, over which lay the superficial femoral artery, pulsating freely. The disease was cured by compression of the common femoral artery, hydrate of chloral being given to relieve pain. Another case is recorded by Bryant as having occurred in the practice of Cock at Guy’s Hospital. The aneurism was situated at the origin of the deep femoral artery ; the external iliac was tied, but the patient died nine weeks after the operation. Fig. 45)0 is taken from a patient who died of pneumonia shortly after admission into Univemity College Hospital. On examination after death, a large tumour of the thigh, which had not been very closely examined during life, proved to be a circumscribed false aneurism apparently arising from rupture of a perforating * artery, most probably the consequence of embolism (Univ. Coll. Museum, 1274). Two cases are recorded by P. Marshall and J. Matson. In the case which was under my care in the Hospital, the disease was recognized by the following signs, Avhich are characteristic of it. 1. A large tumour extended fi’om three inches below Poupart’s ligament to the middle of the thigh, raising and slightly separating the adductor muscles and the rectus femoris. 2. All the ordinary aneurismal signs were present in this tumour—the most marked being a peculiarly loud and harsh bruit, and a dry forcible thrill. 8. The superficial femoral artery could be felt running over the anterior and inner aspect of the tumour, but clear of, and distinct from it. 4. The pulsation in the i)oplitcal and its divisions Avas strong and perfect. 5. All the aneurismal signs ceased on compressing the common femoral artery, and returned on removing the pressure. The only disease Avith Avhich an aneurism of the deep femoral artery can readily be confounded is pulsating sarcoma of the femur, ddie diagnosis from this must be left to the surgical tact of the practitioner. In the Treatment of the.se aneurisms, the Surgeon has the choice of three Fig. 490.—False Aneimsm of a, Perforating Ai-tery. 1. Coiiuiion Femoral. 2. Superficial Femoral. 3. Deep Femoral. 4. Aneurism, cut open. ’ former editions tliis rase wa.s flescrilied ns an aiiciiriHm of tlie Profunda, but careful re-examination or the prcjiaration hIiows it to be one of a perforating artery. VOL. II. ,,