EXTEACTIOX OF THE STOXE. 957 .1 I I' [ E: f 1 -asp of tlie instrument; most commonly, however, the stone requires to he I It for with the closed forceps. Wiien its position has been ascertained, usually [ the inferior fundus, the blades of the instrument arc opened ; and, by l| ishing* one against the wall of the bladder, and giving it a slight shake, the ,1 cuius generally drops between them ; though occasionally it is somewhat oublesome to seize, and this, indeed, often constitutes the most tedious and inoying part of the operation. Fergusson advised holding the forceps Fig. SGO.—Direction of Forceps in Extraction of Stone. i.ansversely, opening them as widely as possible, then giadug a quarter turn so to make the lower blade scoop along the floor of the bladder, when on osiug the forceps the stone will usually be caught. The blades, having the one in their grasp, are then closed, and the stone is drawn downwards Irrough the wound. If it be small, it may be extracted at once without any |?fficulty ; if it be of moderate size, the Anger should be introduced along the oades, in order to feel whether it is in a proper position for extraction. If its ing axis lie across the wound, this must ‘ changed ; and it must then be with- [;.awn by a kind of to-and-fro movement the direction of the axis of the pelvis ”ig. SGO). Should the stone unfortu- h.telv be broken, or should there be pveral small calculi, the fragments or ■e small calculi may generally be best ! moved by means of the scoop (Fig. 8G1). In the event of fracture [•‘cuiTing, it will be necessary to wash out the bladder freely and repeatedly |ith tepid water, injected l)y means of a brass syi-inge through a tube intro- I'lced by the wound. J’lf the perinaeum be very deep, and the prostate enlarged, it may happen |.'<at the neck of the bladder is so far removed from the surfiice that the fiinrer I C? |.'nnot reacli its interior. In these circumstances, the Surgeon must be careful ; pa.esing the forceps, that the instrument do not slip to the side of the inci- >n, the guide and support of the index-finger being lost. In two or three >«f.*s of this kind that have f>ccurred to me, in wliich, owing to the anatomical [ asons above stated, I could not reach the bladder with the tip of my fore- Fig. 801.—Position of Finger and Scoop in Extracting Stone.