1070 ])rSJL\SI^JS OF THE URETHRA. CiiAiiACTKR.—Goiiorrha'u is iisiijilly looked upon as a purely local aileofcioi^ of the genital organs. Some Surgeons, however, amongst whom may be espe- cially mentioned Travers, seem to consider it as occasionally assuming a oon_ stitutional character ; in this opinion 1 entirely agree. Altliough gonorrlujea in the early stages is doubtless a strictly local aflectiou, yet it is occasionally followed by a particular train of very characteristic phenomena, that can scarcely be looked upon in any other light than as the result of constitutional infection ; the more so, as some individuals never have gonorrhoea without the disease being followed by these sequences, whilst others are altogether exempt from them. The parts that are secondarily affected are chiefly the fibrous tissues, the mucous and the cutaneous surfaces. The affections of the fihrom tissues give rise to so-called rheumatism and to peculiar forms of inflamma- tion of the testicle and of the sclerotic. The affection of the mucous mem- branes displays itself in specific inflammation of the eyes. The occurrence of these various affections, assuming as they do a specific type so distinctly marked that they can at once be characterized as gonorrhoeal, certainly tenfe to show that the disease imj^resses the constitution in some peculiar manner, somewhat analogous to syphilis or pymmia ; though in a far minor degree, and with much less certainty, than these diseases. Symptoms.—The symptoms of gonorrhoea in the male may be divided into three stages :—1. The Incubative Stage, or the period of Irritation ; 2. The Acute Inflammatory Stage ; and, 3. The Chronic Stage. 1. Incubative Stage.—The first stage, that of irritation, usually comes on fi-om three to five days after connection, when the patient begins to experience some degree of heat, itching, and general irritation about the penis. The lips of the urethra are somewhat red and swollen ; its orifice gapes ; and, on squeezing it, some mucus exudes. This stage usually continues for three or four days, but sometimes for six or eight, when it terminates in the second stage, which is one of active inflammation. 2. Acute or Inflammatory Stage.—The discharge now becomes abun- dant, thick, and of a gTeenish-yellow colour; there is great pain in making water, with considerable heat and smarting, and the urine, which flows in a diminished stream, is passed with increased frequency. The urethra is swollen, firm, and cord-like to the touch ; the whole penis, indeed, looks generally red and turgescent. As the disease advances, and the bulbous portion of the urethra becomes affected, weight and tension in the peringeum will be com- plained of. If the prostatic portion be the seat of disease, there will be heat and weight about the anus. During the whole of this period there is generally a good deal of constitutional disturbance, restlessness, and fever. One of the most troublesome symptoms in this stage of the complaint is the occurrence of Chordee, which consists in painful erections at night, with a twist in the body of the penis, which is usually curved down towards the scrotum. 3. Chronic Stage.—The acute symptoms usually continue for about a fort- night, when the third stage, that of subacute or chronic inflammation, sets in. During this period of the affection the inflammatory symptoms gradually sub- side, but a thin muco-purulent discharge keeps up, with some degree ot heat and irritation about the urethra, and occasional smarting in passing miue. Under proper treatment, this usually subsides in the course of another fortnight or three weeks ; but, if neglected, or in certain constitutions, it may last for