DISEASES OF THE LIPS. 557 it completely nugatory. I’he plan of treatment which I have found to answer best is a modification of Desault’s. It consists in passing a small hydrocele trochar into the fistula in the cheek, pushing this obliquely forwards and inwards into the mouth, as nearly as possible in the direction of the parotid duct, withdrawing the stilet, and then passing a small silk seton through the cannula, so as to bring one end out of the mouth, and the other through the fistula in the cheek. The cannula is then withdrawn, and the seton tied loosely. It should he left in for about throe weeks, so a.s to establish a sinus into the mouth. It is then to be cut and withdrawn, and the sinus in the mouth kept patent by the daily introduction of a probe, by leaving a small piece of gum catheter in it, or, if it show much disposition to close, by the introduction of a laminaria tent. In this way the saliva is diverted from the external opening and made to flow into the mouth. The external apertui*e in the cheek may now be closed by touching its edges with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver or the galvanic cauteiy ; or, if large, they may be pared and stitched together. DISEASES OF THE LIPS Congenital Malformation of the Lips is of common occurrence. Con- genital Contraction, or even complete closure of the orifice of the mouth, has been met with at birth ; such a condition must be remedied, according to cir- cimistances, by the skill of the Surgeon. The opposite condition is also occa- sionally observed, the opening of the mouth extending on one side too far into the cheek, constituting the condition known as Macrostoma. It must be remedied by a plastic operation. By far the most common malformation, however, is the condition termed Hare-li}}, which will be noticed in detail in the chapter on the Plastic Surgery of the Face and Mouth. Hy^pertrophy to a great extent occasionally occurs in either or in both lips. It is especially common in the upper lip in scrofulous children, forming the condition known as “strumous lip.” It is often of an oedematous character, being kept up by the irritation of fissures or cracks ; if so, these must l)e cured, when the size of the lip will gradually diminish. Sometimes, however, it becomes permanent, continuing after the cure of the fissure ; in these circumstances it may be necessary to excise an elliptical portion of the mucous membmue of the lip in a horizontal direction, and then to bring the edges together by means of sutures or pins. Ulceration is not unfrequently met with on the prolabium, frequently of a simple character, though chronic. It is often dependent on a disordered state of the digestive organs. It will commonly yield to the application of nitrate of silver, to proper constitutional treatment, having for its object the improvement of the digestion, and in very chronic cases to the administration of the preparations of arsenic. Primary S3rpliilitic Sores, communicated by kissing, arc by no means uncommon on the lips. Their peculiar character has been already described (Vol. I. p. 1087). Cysts and Erectile Tumours.—The lips may be the seat of cysts and erectile tumours, requinng extii-pation by the knife or ligature. In dealing with these, the Surgeon must be guided by the circumstances of the individual case ; but he should, if possible, avoid cutting through the whole thickness of the lip ; and, if compelled to do so, he must act as will Ijc described in speaking