CYSTS OF THE BREAST. 717 TUMOUBS OF THE BREAST. The study of the various tumours of the female breast, more especially iii a diagnostic point of view, is of the first importance to the practical Surgeon; for though it might be supposed that it would be easy, if not to recognize the I minuter shades of pathological difference between morbid growths so super- i ficially situated as those of the mammary gland, at all events to diagnose the malignant from the non-malignant affections of this organ, yet in practice ji nothing is more difficult in many cases ; and it not only requires great I experience, but almost an intimate acquaintance with the special course and symptoms of each particular disease, to come to a correct conclusion as to its 1 nature. Even with all the light which experience and a careful examination i . of the characters of the tumour may throw upon the nature of the disease, it ; will be impossible for the Surgeon to avoid occasional errors in diagnosis. ; The first thorough classification of the different varieties of simple tumours i that develop in the mammary gland was made by Sir Astley Cooper, and this I important department of surgical pathology was subsequently much extended I by the researches of Yelpeau, Birkett, and Paget. Since the improvements j in the methods of investigation have led to a more perfect anatomical classi- fication of tumours, the confusion that formerly surrounded this veiy intricate j subject has been to a great extent cleared up by the labours of Virchow, Billroth, Gross, and others. The microscopic characters of the various tumours of the breast are now accurately determined and generally agreed upon, but confusion still remains in the nomenclature which time alone can ’ remove. In describing the various tumours of the breast I shall follow the order adopted in the chapter on tmnours in general. I NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Cysts of the Breast are of common occun-ence. They occur either as independent tumom-s, or in conjunction with solid growths. To the former f class belong Retention-Cysts, Serous Cysts, and Parasitic Cysts ; to the latter, the cysts met with in “ cysto-sarcoma,” and the cysts in soft sarcomata. 1. Retention-Cysts.—^These are formed by the gradual dilatation of the i acini or ducts of the mammary gland. The (jaladocele^' already described (p. 709), belongs properly to this class of tumour. It is produced solely by ' obstruction to the exit of the natural secretion during lactation. The reten- tion-cysts formed in the mamma at other times never contain milk. The fluid that distends them is usually thick, sometimes almost mucous in appear- i ance, and usually of a brownish yellow or brown colour, and more or less : turbid. It is an abnormal secretion from the glaiid-tissue. In galactocele the sole cause of the condition is obstruction of a duct, but in the cysts we are now considering, abnormal secretion is the primary factor in the pro- duction of the disease. The walls of these cysts are composed of a layer of connective tissue of variable thickness, containing usually an abundant supply of capillary vessels. They are lined internally by a layer of epithelium cither cubical, somewhat resembling that of the normal acini, or columnar like that of the ducts. Various modifications also arc met with which >vill be described later on. As Ixjfore stated, cysts of this class arc frequently met with in lobules of the