I 342 DISEASES OF JOINTS. \ it like a veil. If an attempt be made to remove this it will be found that the } advancing edge can be raised with the handle of tlie scalpel for about one- i eighth of an inch, beyond which it will be adherent to the cartilage, ^die ! advance of the granulation-tissue over the cartilage is compared by Billroth | to ivy creeping over a wall, and becoming gradually attached by its roots. I If the granulation-tissue be scraped away, it will be seen that the cartilage j is being gradually consumed, its place being occupied by the vascular new tissue. Finally, it is completely perforated, and the bone beneath becomes similarly afiected. In the bone the process assumes the form of rarefying osteitis with exuberant growth of granulation-tissue (superficial fungating caries, p. 283). The granulation-tissue spreading from the bone extends beneath the cartilage, loosening it from its attachment; and, as now it is attacked on both sides, its destruction proceeds more rapidly than before. At the same time, the destructive process may extend to a varying depth into the cancellous tissue of the articular end of the bone. The periosteum usually shares in the disease, the inflammation assuming the osteoplastic form, and leading to the deposit of irregular masses of bone on the articular ends, chiefly in the immediate neighbourhood of the joint. At this stage no articular cavity remains ; the joint is represented merely by the articular ends of the bone more or less extensively denuded of cartilage, imbedded in a soft pulpy mass of granulation-tissue, surrounded by the infiltrated and softened. ligaments. When the granulation-tissue reaches the thickness of from a quarter to half an inch, its vascular supply becomes insufficient for its healthy nutrition, and fatty degeneration sets in in the parts most distant from the base of supply. It is from the appearance of the mass of unhealthy gi*auulation- tissue that the disease received its name of “pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane.” The soft pulpy tissue is pink in colour, marked by yellowish patches of fatty degeneration and brown areas from old hemorrhages. The fatty degeneration is followed sooner or later by softening, and thus a chronic abscess with fiocculent curdy contents is formed. This fr-equently occurs in one or more local centres, without implicating the whole mass of granulation-tissue. Thus, in the knee, it frequently occurs in the site of the synovial pouches above the joint. The disease does not always begin as just described in the synovial membrane. In many cases, it is impossible in the present state of our know- ledge to say in what proportion, it commences in the articular end of one of the bones, as superficial fungating caries, immediately beneath the cartilage. In these cases, so soon as the cartilage is perforated, the changes just described commence in the synovial membrane and completely conceal all evidence of the primary bone disease. Clinically it may be said to be impossible to distinguish accurately one form of the disease from the other. On microscopic examination, the diseased structures present the following appearances. The ligaments show the ordinary changes observed in inflamed fibrous tissue. The fibres are separated from each other by inflammatory products, composed chiefly of small round cells. When the process is very chronic, new fibroid tissue also may be found. The cartilages show changes i similar to those already described in acute arthritis. Before suppuration has taken place, ulceration both without and with evident proliferation may i be present (see p. 331). The destructive changes may be observed on ' either surface, according as the disease commences in the synovial membrane