134 ANEURISM. they may readily and imiforraly become compressed by the effused blood. In these cases, the additional embarrassment induced in the circulation of the limb by the ligature of its main artery will readily induce gangrene; and hence it is that, in diffuse aneurism of the lower extremity, ligature of the artery is so commonly followed by mortification. Loss of Mood, either in consequence of secondary haemorrhage, or in any other way before or after the application of the ligature, is very apt to be followed by gangrene ; the more so, if it have been necessary to apply a ligature to a higher point on the trunk of the vessel than had previously been tied. This secondary ligature of a large artery in cases of aneurism has, I believe, been invariably followed by gangrene of the limb, when done in the lower ex- tremity ; the interference with the collateral circulation by the second ligature being so great, that the vitality of the part cannot be main- tained. Besides these causes, the occurrence of erysipelas, exposure of the limb to cold, or to an undue degree of heat, or subjecting it to the compression of a bandage, may be attended by consequences fatal to its vitality. , The period of supervention of gangrene of the limb is usually from the third • to the tenth day ; it seldom occurs before this period, unless incipient morti- \ fication have already set in before the artery was tied. Gangrene usually j • follows the ligature of the external iliac at an earlier period than that of any other artery. In cases of aneurism, the gangrene is always of the dark and , moist variety, owing to its being commonly dependent on pressure upon the I large venous trunks by the aneurismal tumour. i Treatment.—The general preventive treatment of gangrene following the j ligature of the artery for aneurism must be conducted on the same principles as when it arises after the ligature of arteries generally (Vol. I., p. 443). But some special modifications of it are required, so far as the aneurism is con- ^ cerned. When the gangrene occurs from the pressure of the sac upon the < accompanying vein, it has been proposed to lay the tumour open, and to tmii out ; its contents, thus removing the compression exercised by it. The danger of such a proceeding consists in the probability of the occurrence of hsemoiThage from the opening made into the sac, and in the risk attending suppuration set up in the sac ; yet it would appear that, in two cases in which this practice ? has been adopted, no bad results followed. Thus, Lawrence has related a : ' case of diffused aneurism of the popliteal artery, in which this plan was had ; i recourse to with the best results ; and Benza has recorded a case of popliteal , aneurism in which the same practice was adopted in consequence of great ? oedema and incipient gangrene of the foot; after the extraction of a quantity of bj flesh-like fibrine from the sac, the patient made an-excellent recovery. These ij:* cases would certainly justify the Sm’geon in adopting such a course when the danger of gangrene is imminent, and dependent on the size and pressure of the > tumour. Should, however, the gangrene show any disposition to extend, or should there be haBmorrhage from the sac after it has thus been laid open, the jf»j, Surgeon must hold himself in readiness to amputate without delay. When fl • gangrene has once fairly set in, there is no reasonable prospect of saving |i> the limb ; and the sooner amputation is done, the better. The limb must a. always be removed high up above the sac, and if possible, not only at some ft distance from the parts that have mortified, but also above tlie part to which the serous infiltration that precedes mortification has extended, i -