ANOMALIES OF DEVELOPMENT OF THE BREAST. 707 CHAPTER LX. DISEASES OF THE BREAST. By Disease of the Breast is meant an affection of the mammary region, lot merely of the mammary gland. These diseases may occur in the male as vvell as in the female. They are necessarily more frequent as well as more mportant in the latter, the rudimentary mammary gland of the male being .ittle predisposed to such affections in comparison to the highly developed ind active organ in the female. Diseases of the breast, when they occur in the female, are of much interest 0 the Surgeon ; not only on account of their great variety, but from the difficulties attending their diagnosis, and from the importance attaching to he question of operative interference in connection with them. Diseases of the breast seldom occur before puberty, being most frequently net with either during lactation, when the functions of the gland are in a ligh degree of development; or towards the termination of menstrual life, ?hen the organ is necessarily influenced by the changes that are taking ilace in the uterine system. But there is this important difference between he diseases at these different periods of life, viz., that in the young they re of a simple, in the older woman frequently, if not generally, of a 'alignant nature. Just before or at puberty, the breast occasionally becomes ae seat of inflammation and abscess ; in all probability ovdng to changes •iking place in it in connection with the general development of the repro- uctive system. As the period of puberty approaches, the breasts often swell, ecorae hard, knotty, and somewhat painful, indicative of some commencing range in the generative system. In other cases again, a precocious hyiDer- 'ophy may take place, frequently attended with severe neuralgia in the part, fhen puberty occui-s, the breasts naturally enlarge, and often become tender ; nd occasionally one undergoes a certain degree of hypertrophy, increasing reatly in bulk beyond the other. These various changes, though exciting '.ai-m in females, cannot be regarded as of any very serious importance, and ;ldom require more than the simplest surgical treatment. ANOMALIES OP DEVELOPMENT. The mammary gland is subject to certain anomalies in de^'elopraellt. : hus, in some instances it has been found to bo aUogeilier wanting. Sir A. •ooper and Froriep both relate instances in Avhich the organ was not ■3veloped, and in which the ovaries were also deficient. A more remarkable lomaly consists in the development of a number of Supernumerary reaats. Birkett has collected fourteen reported cases, in which there were ' ore than two breasts ; most frequently there is but one supernumerary gland, •metimes two ; and occasionally, though very rarely, thi’oe have been met ith, constituting quintuple mammae. Supernumerary Nipples have z z 2