DISEASES OF JOINTS. 334 swelling to be presently described. The only exception to this rule is the ! scrofulous abscess in the head of a long bone. This may perforate the i cartilage, allowing its contents to enter the joint, and acute arthritis, endino- I rapidly in suppuration, may be set up. If the cavity has been already ; opened externally and contains decomposing pus, septic arthritis of the most acute form ; always follows perforation of the cartilage. ; The perforation of the cartilage in these cases ■ i is effected by a process of ulceration identical ' in character with that already described as occurring in acute arthritis commencing in the joint, the only difference being that it proceeds from the deep instead of the arti- cular surface of the cartilage. Acute inflammatory processes when extend- ing from the bone to the joint always set up ' acute arthritis. Acute infective periostitis or osteomyelitis of the shaft (acute necrosis, p. 279), usually stops at the epiphyses, and I consequently, seldom causes disease of the neighbouring joints. This rule is, however, not absolute, and exceptional cases are met with in wliich the articulations ■ become affected. In these there is at first abundant effusion into the cavity of the synovial membrane ; this rapidly becomes purulent, and destruction of the cartilages and softening of the ligaments quickly foUow. Acute osteomyelitis attacking the growing bone in the epiphysis and usually ; terminating in its necrosis, or as it is termed acute epiphysitis, is a not ; uncommon cause of acute arthritis in young subjects. The causes of this J affection are not ahvays evident; sometimes it is attributed to injury. On examining a joint affected in this way, the appearances aheady described as characteristic of acute arthritis with ulceration of the cartilages are met with. On making a section of the epiphysis from which the disease started, the bone contained in it will often be found forming a sequestrum bathed in pus, the cavity in which it lies communicating with the joint by an ulcerated track through the cartilage. In other cases the epiphysis may be separated from the shaft. Acute epiphysitis is probably in most cases an infective inflammation closely allied to acute mfective periostitis, and osteomyelitis. S3rphilitic epiphysitis and its effects on the joints has been aheady described (Vol. I., p. 1127). Acute Arthritis from Diseases of the Soft Farts external to the Joint.—Abscesses arising from any cause in immediate contact with a joint may burst into its cavity. When this happens, acute arthritis with destruction of the articulation invariably follows. This accident may occur in acute inflammation and suppuration of the bursae in the neighbourhood of a joint. In phlegmonous erysipelas the joints are occasionally opened where the ligaments are in close contact with the subcutaneous tissue. Acute Arthritis of Infants.—Under this name, T. Smith has described a form of acute arthritis unconnected with syphilis or injury, not uncommonly met with in very young children. It is sudden in onset, and runs a rapid course, ending in suppuration. It is most common in the knee, hip, and Fig. 529.—a, Caries at Head of Tibia ; 5, Perforation of Cartilage.