STRAXGULATED IXGUIXAT. IIERXIA—OrEJiATIOX. Sir 1 tUl i lie laid bare. This structure is usually thickened and vascular, and not uiifre- ([ueutly the stricture apjicai’s to he situated in it, or in a kind of condensed ring* formed hy the incorjioration of it with the meshes of the cremaster. If it be found, after the division of these fascim, that the hernia can he reduced, it would of course he unnecessary to lay open the sac ; and the patient’s chance of recovery will he considerably enhanced, more particularly if the operation be performed for an old scrotal hernia of large size, by not doing so. If, however, as will happen in the majority of instances in inguinal hernia, it he found that the stricture is in the neck of the sac itself, occasioned hy a condensation, constriction, and puckering of it, the sac must be carefully opened at its anterior part, the finger introduced, and the stricture divided from within, by pressing the finger-nail under it, and cautiously sliding the hernia-knife along this. It is an established rule in surgery, that this division should he effected in a direction immediately upAvards, so that it may lie parallel with the epigastric vessels, Avhether it he situated upon the inner or outer side of these. It is true that, if the Surgeon could he sure that he had to do Avith an oblique inguinal hernia, he might safely divide the stricture outAA^ards ; or, if he Avere certain that the protrusion A\*as of the direct kind, he might make the section iiiAvards ; hut, as it commonly happens that he cannot determine Avith absolute certainty upon Avhich variety of hernia he is operating, he adopts the safer plan recommended by Sir A. Cooper and Sir W. LaAvrence, of cutting upAvards from the middle of the ring parallel to the epigastric vessels. After the hernia has been reduced the ring may he closed in proper cases, as already described (p. 7G9). The Seat of Stricture in inguinal hernia Avill thus he seen to differ in different cases ; and in some instances it exists in tAVO situations. I think it most commonly occurs in the neck of the sac, OAving to contraction and elonga- tion of it, Avith condensation of the suhserous areolar tissue l}dng immediately upon it. In other cases, though much more rarely, it seems to he formed by a thickening of the transA’ersalis fascia in the inner ring, but altogether outside the sac. Occasionally it is met Avith in some part of the canal, at the loAver edge of the internal oblique, but much more frequently at the external abdominal ring. In many cases there is very tight constriction in this situation, as well as in the deeper portions of the canal, or at the inner ring ; hence, after th^ divi.sion of any stricture at the external abdominal ring, the deeper portions of the canal should alAA'ays be carefully examined before any attempt is made to put the heniia back. The operation for an Tncomiiilete Tngiimcil Hernia requires to be conducted in the same way as that which has just been described, except that the incision need not be quite so long, and should not extend beyond the external ring. .Vfter this has been laid open, and the tendon of the external oblique slit up, a flat director must be passed under the loAver edge of the internal oblique, which must lie carefully divided ; should the stricture not be relieved in this way, and the sac rciiuirc to be laid open, the deej) section must be made in the same Avay and in the same direction as has already been described. In Inguinal Hernias, containing either the Caecnm, the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon, or the Urinary Bladder, the protruded viscera arc "Illy partially covered by peritoneum ; hence, in operating upon such hernim, when strangulated, care niii.st be taken that the contents be not Avouiidcd, Avhich is apt to occur if the Surgeon divide the parts Avithout due caution, not sus-