HERNIA. 792 and peculiar greenish-black or dark-grey colour, Avill cause the nature of tlie juiscliief to be readily recognized. In tlie majority of cases there will be much constitutional depression, and clammy skin, tympanitic abdomen, and brown or black tongue ; but in some instances 1 have known all these symptoms to be absent, and the condition of the patient to iDresent no very unfavourable state. Some diflference of opinion exists as to the proper line of practice to be adopted in such cases. Travers and Lawrence seem to think that the division of the stricture is unnecessary, or may even be injurious ; while Dupuytren, A. Cooper, and Key (with whom I concur), advise that it should be done : that the stricture should be divided in the usual way ; that a free incision should then be made into the protruded portion of bowel, which must be left unre- duced, so as to allow the escape of fmces ; and the wound left open and covered by a poultice. In this way an artificial anus will necessarily be formed, through which the freculent matter finds exit. The gut in the vicinity of the stricture is retained in situ by masses of plastic exudation, which prevent the peritoneal cavity from being opened. If the intestine should already have given way before the operation is performed, the stricture must be divided, and the part then left unreduced, care being taken to interfere as little as possible with any adhesions or connections lying inside the neck of the sac ; though I fully agree with Key, in thinking that the danger of disturbing them has been exaggerated. When a small portion of the bowel only is gangrenous, the better plan is to return it just beyond the mouth of the sac, without laying it open ; but it should not be pushed any distance into the cavity of the abdomen ; the pres- sure of the surrounding parts will prevent extravasation. When the slough separates, it will probably be discharged into the cavity of the intestine ; and the aperture resulting will be closed by the adliesiqns that extend between its margin and the abdominal wall. During the last few years the operation of removing the gangrenous portion of the gut and uniting the intestine by suture, originally performed by Diefien- bach in 1836, has been revived and repeatedly performed by Billroth, Czeray, Juillard, Madelung, R. Parker, and others. Juillardin 1882 published 44 cases, collected from various sources, in which this operation had been performed ; of these 23 died. These results contrast uiifavom’ably with those of the same operation performed for the relief of an artificial anus or fsecal fistula, of which Juillard records 23 cases with 8 deaths. He therefore recommends that in all cases the gut should first be treated as above described, and the attempt to unite the ends delayed for two or three weeks. By this time the patient, if he sur- vive, will have gained strength ; the fmcal accumulation in the upper part of the gut will have been relieved, and the operation will altogether be per- formed under more favourable circumstances. If the attempt to remove the gangi’enous gut be made at the time of the operation for relief of strangulation, the condition of the suiTOunding parts is in many cases most unfavourable, diffuse inflammation often extending for many inches around the sac. Under such circumstances the removal of the gangrenous gut would evidently be out of the question. The operation will be described subsequently with removal of portions of the gut for other causes. Management of Adhesions.—This varies according to the condition of the bowel, and the nature and situation of the bands. As has just^ been I’craarked, if gangrene be pj’escnt, especial care must be taken not to disturb