1 i8r (GENERAL DIAaXOSJS OF SCROTAL TUAWURS. iipwarils ot‘ an evidently solid body. In the other reducible tumours, the dimi- nution and eventual disappearance under pressure are more gradual, and there is no reduction of the mass as a whole. h. The gradual squeezing out of the contents of a Congenital Hydrocele, together with its translucency, and the early age at which it occurs, will esta- blish its true character. It must be remembered, however, that hernias in very young infants may be translucent if the gut contains little or no faecal matter. c. In the Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord, there is an uniform semi- fluctuating swelling in and near the ring ; in which, however, there is no •gurgling, &c., no complete reduction nor sudden disappearance as in hernia. It is also less defined, and has a less distinct impulse on coughing. d. Varicocele may always be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and its knotted, soft, and in-egular feel. After being reduced when the patient lies down, it will, when he stands up, fill again, even though the Surgeon compress the external ring with his fingers. This sign, which distinguishes it from a hernia, occurs also in congenital hydrocele ; from which, however, the varico- cele may be distinguished by the absence of translucency, the want of fluctua- tion, and the general feel of the tumour. 2. Irreducible Scrotal Tumours are of various kinds ; such as Omental Hernia, Hydrocele, Hasmatocele, the various forms of Sarcocele, and Cancer •of the Testicle. These tumours, though presenting certain characters in com- mon, yet differ somewhat in the predominance of particular signs. Thus, the shape of the tumour is usually pyriform in hydrocele, globular in hoematocele, •und oval in sarcocele ; though this is subject to much variation. The weight is least in hydrocele and greatest in sarcocele, proportionately to the size of the tumour. The characters of the '"surface present considerable differences, being smooth and tense in hydrocele and haematocele; often irregular, hard, or knotted in the other varieties. The rapidity of the formation of the tumour is gi-eatest in haematocele. a. Irred-acible Scrotal Hernia may be recognized by its irregular feel, by its impulse on coughing, by its occupying the canal, and concealing the cord, iind by the testicle being distinctly perceptible below it. h. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis is recognizable by its trans- lucency ; and the amount of opacity conjoined with this will enable the Surgeon to distinguish the degi’ee of enlargement of the testis, and how far there is a sarcocele conjoined with it. c. In Haematocele the tumour is of sudden or rapid formation, somewhat globular, opaque, but not very hea\7 or hard, and smooth upon the surface. d. In Sarcocele generally the tumour is heavy for its size, fi-equently globular or irregular in shape, sometimes knobbed, and usually attended by a good deal of dragging pain in the groin, and frequently by some enlargement of the cord. In these three forms of scrotal tumour, viz., hydrocele, hmmatocele, and sar- cocele, the diagnosis can always be made at once from hernia, by the Surgeon feeling the cord free above the tumour. The point of most importance in the diagnosis of solid enlargements of the testicle is to distinguish the malignant tumours, sarcoma and cancer, from other forms of disease, in malignant tumours, rapidity of growth, softness and elasticity of the mass, the implication of one testis only, and the early