OEXEllAL RULES IN ABDOMINAL OFERATIONS. 757 \V11 the deep stitches must be passed before any are tightened, and care must • Hi taken while tliis is being done not to accidentally include a knuckle of utestine between the edges of the wound or under a stitch. After the wmiind las been brought together, finer stitches may be jmt in to bring the edge of 'he skin accurately in contact. 11. If it be thought necessary to drain the abdomen, this is done by a large mbe of india-rubber or glass passed into the most dependent part of the cayity iiid brought out at the lowest angle of the wound. The tube must be of such ize that all fluid shall escape readily from it. Inefficient drainage is worse ban none at all. 12. The dressing should l)e composed of some efficient antiseptic material, f the wound is completely closed, a thin layer of dressing is sufficient. If it )e drained, a thicker mass must be applied to absorb the discharge. In operations inyolving the anterior wall of the abdomen, the dressing is most 'onveniently kept in place by a broad baud of strapping, Avhich at the same ‘lime supports the abdomen. 1:>. After most abdominal operations the patient should be kept without 3d for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, or in some cases even longer. Lk. small quantity of iced soda-water or barley-water may be given to allay thirst. If the condition of the patient makes it necessary to give food, hicken-broth or iced milk and soda-water is the best, given in small quantities t inteiwals of about two hours. Small nutritive enemata are often useful, ’n operations involving the intestine, opium is often necessary to prevent ■eristaltic movement. 14. If the operation is followed by a high temperature due to absorption of nflammatoiy exudation from the peritoneum, an ice-cap may be applied to the ead as recommended by Ivnowsley Thornton. If there is reason to believe lat the peritoneum is becoming distended Avith fluid, the patient may some- [limes be saved by opening one end of the Avound and inserting a tube in those »ases in Avhich diuinage has not been adopted from the first. In all abdominal operations success Avill greatly depend on minute attention bo details. The operation must be carefully considered and planned before- and, and everything that can possibly be required must be at hand. At the 1: nd of a severe operation in this region, the patient is often suffering greatly rom shock, perhaps hovering between life and death, and a little needless elay from not having eveiything ready the moment it is Avanted, an unneces- I ary exposure of the intestine for want of a proper flat sponge to retain them, r a failure in some other minor detail, may just turn the scale against him. HERNIA. 4 I i By Hernia, in its widest sense, is meant the displacement of an organ from -ae cavity in Avhich it is naturally contained, by being protruded through an bnonnal or accidental opening in its AA’alls; Avhen, hoAveA'er, it escapes through ne of the natural outlets of the part, it is not considered hernial. Thus, the -rotnision of the brain through an aperture in the cranium, or of the lung hrough one in the thoracic walls, or of a portion of intestine through the bdominal parietes, is termed a hernia of the organ ; but the descent of the 'OAvel through the anus does not come under this designation. Here, hoAveA'er,