124 ANEURISM. anatomical reasons, be applied on tlie proximal side of the aneurism, as in the arteries about the root of the neck, it was recommended l)y Brasdor, a French Surg-eoii about the middle of the last centiiiy, that the vessel should be tied on its i distal side. This operation, originally proposed by Brasdor, was first performed ^ by Deschamj)s in 1/hi) at la Charite in l^aris in a case of femoral aneurism. In principle, it resembles the Hunterian operation, the object being to arrest so much of the flow of blood through the sac that the consolidation of this may take place in the usual way, by the deposit of laminated fibriue. In the Hunterian operation, this is effected by deposit from the lessened quantity of blood that flows through the sac ; in the distal operation, it is sought to be accomplished in the same way, and the success of the operation must neces- sarily depend, in a great measure, upon the extent to which the flow of blood through the sac is interfered with. This operation, however, is rarely success- ; j fill ; for, independently of the ordinary dangers resulting from the application of the ligature to a large vessel, the sac will continue to be distended with, I and to receive the direct imj)ulse of, the blood that is driven into it. The I natural result of the ligature would be, therefore, to increase the tension of the sac, but, as Holmes points out, the enlargement of the collateral circulation opens, as it were, ‘‘ side-sluices ” to relieve this pressure, and consequently after a few hours or days the sac is usually found to be less tense than before the operation. Hence the progress of the aneurism may be arrested for a time, but it -will often speedily increase again, and may perhaps eventually ,| destroy the patient by suppuration and sloughing. Of 38 cases in which this operation was practised on the carotid artery, in 25 instances a fatal result | more or less speedily followed the operation ; in the remaining 13 cases the . ! patients survived the effects of the ligature of the artery, though in very few : if any cases were they cured of the disease for which the operation was prac- tised. This operation will be considered more in detail in speaking of_ the ■' particular cases in which it has been practised {vide Chap. xliv.). ); Indications and Contra-indications of Ligature.—Ligature of an ^ artery for aneurism, by the Hunterian method, succeeds best in those cases in which the tumour is circumscribed, of moderate size, slow in its growth, having ; a tendency to consolidation, and unaccompanied by much oedema of the limb. When the aneurism is undergoing spontaneous cure, no surgical interference should be employed, but the case left to nature. In this way it occasionally ; ■ happens, during the preparatory treatment of the disease, that the aneurism | becomes consolidated. I Before the Surgeon proceeds to cut down upon an artery with the view of tying it, he should, as far as practicable, ascertain by a careful examination of it, whether it appears to be in a healthy and sound state, at the point at which , he is about to tie it. He should feel along its course to ascertain if it be smooth, easily compressible, and natural to the feel; if it be hard, incom- pressible, indicative of calcification ; if it feel broader than natural ; if a . fli bruit be heard in it on applying the stethoscope ; if, in fine, there be evidence -Wi' of degeneration or dilatation of its coats, great caution should be used in * Ih attempting to ligature it. Should the deligation of a diseased artery become unavoidable, the antiseptic catgut, or the ox-aorta ligature, would probably I be the best material for the puiq)Ose. The ends being cut short, and the Hi Avound closed oA’er them, the chance of sloughing and of unhealthy ulcera- H ^ tion of the vessel Avould be greatly lessened. H .