940 URIXARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. c. the horrors of lithotomy ;,’whereas children had little choice in the mattei-. Diao-nosis also was not so peidect at tliat time, and many small stones in old people escaped detection. Secondly, Thompson’s own statistics are chiefly derived from private practice, and it is well known that the children of tlie I’ich very rarely suffer from stone ; whereas that disease is very common amonj^ the poor. The cause of this is not very certain, but some attrilmte it to insufficiency of milk in the diet. Se.v influences materially the occurrence of stone, which is far more frecjuent in the male than in the female, in the proportion of about twenty to one of cases requiring operation. This, however, does not represent the exact ratio; as, owing to the shortness and large size of the urethra in females, many small calculi are voided by them that would be retained in the male. It would appear that in some farts of the ivorld calculus is a far more common disease than in others. It is generally more frequently met with in cold than in warm climates. The negro race is remarkably exempt from this affection. It is a singular fact that in some parts of the same country calculous disorders are of far more frequent occurrence than in others. Thus it is well known that the inhabitants of the east coast of England and Scotland are peculiarly liable to these disorders ; and that in Norfolk stone occurs with especial frequency, the mortality from calculus being much higher here in proportion to the population than in any other county of England (Cadge). In America also, it would appear that the inhabitants of certain States are peculiarly obnoxious to this affection ; and I understand that in some districts of Germany the disease may be said to be almost unknown, whilst in others it is of common occurrence. The relative frequency of the kinds of calculus also varies in different countries. H. Y. Carter, who has analysed and descril)ed upwards of a hundred specimens contained in the Museum of the Grant Medical College at Bombay shows that the per-centage of calculi with an uric acid or urate of ammonia nucleus is, in India, 56'30, in England, 71'79 ; while that of calculi with a nucleus of oxalate of lime is in India, 38‘G5, in England, 16‘87. The calculi composed purely of oxalate of lime also greatly exceed in number those which consist entirely of uric acid or urate of ammonia. To what these differences are owing it is impossible to say. Peculiarity of race, of con- stitution, and of diet, with exposure to prevalent easterly winds, have all been assigned as reasons for them; but probably not on very sufficient grounds. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone in the bladder vary according as the calculus lies loose in the ca'^uty of the viscus or is encysted. Their intensity ■will depend on the size and shape of the stone, the condition of the Idadder, and the constitution of the patient. Most commonly, the severity of the symptoms is in proportion to the magnitude of the calculus. This, however, is not always the case. In a patient whom I once cut, the most intense suffering and repeated attacks of cystitis had been occasioned by a small but sharp-pointed calculus, not weighing more than a drachm ; and some years ago I saw a patient in whose bladder five calculi were found after death, nearly as large as chestnuts, though their presence had never been suspected during life by the different Surgeoiis under whose care he had been for stricture, so little distress had they occasioned. In some cases, the symptoms of stone very suddenly declare themselves ; and then the Surgeon finds on examination that the patient has a calculus of some size, which must have been a long time forming without attracting attention. Hough and angular calculi necessarily