NECROSIS—REMOVAL OF SEQUESTRUM. 295 be opened as soon as recog'iiized. In cases of acute infective periostitis the extent of the necrosis is very materially limited by free and early incisions, and in this way the separation of the epiphyses can often be prevented, and , the danger of death ft'om exhaustion or pyaamia avoided. ; Removal of the Sequestrum.—When all that is possible has been done ; to arrest the morbid condition to which the necrosis is due, the separation of I the sequestrum should be left as much as possible to the unaided elforts of i nature. The less the Surgeon interferes with this part of the process the I better; for, as has justly been observed by Wedemeyer, the boundaries of the necrosis are known to Nature only, and the Surgeon will most probably either j not reach, or he will pass altogether beyond them. Here much patience will be required for many weeks or months ; and the utmost the Surgeon can do is to attend to the state of the patient’s health, treating him carefully upon general principles, removing inflammatory mischief by appropriate means, opening abscesses as they form in the limb, limiting or preventing the de- composition of the discharges by antiseptic applications, and at a later period, supporting the patient’s strength by good diet, tonics, and general treatment, calculated to bear him up against the depressing and wasting influence of continued suppuration, and of the irritation induced by the disease. So soon as a sequestrum has been detached from the adjacent or underlying bone the Surgeon must proceed to its removal. In most cases it is sufficiently easy, when the necrosis is superficial, to ascertain that this separation has taken I place, as the flat end of a probe may be pushed under the edge of the detached t lamina. When, however, the sequestrum is deeply seated, it is not always so ^ easy to be sure that the separation has occuiTed ; though, in the majority of cases, the introduction of a probe through one of the fistulous openings leading to the necrosed bone, and firm pressure exercised upon this, will enable the Surgeon to detect that degree of mobility which is characteristic of looseness. In other cases, however, the sequestrum, though completely free from all osseous connections, still continues to be fixed by the pressure of the surround- ing granulations, and by the extension of its spicula into the corresponding ca\ities of the new osseous case. This especially happens when the sequestrum is central and invaginated, and the cloacae leading to it are so small that but a limited portion of it is exposed. Here a more careful examination wiU be required ; and its looseness may sometimes be determined by pressing upon it with a probe in a kind of jerking manner, or by introducing two probes through different cloacae, at some distance from one another, and alternately bearing upon the exposed bone with one or other of them. Then, again, if the sound elicited by striking the end of the probe against the sequestrmn be a peculiarly hollow one, the detachment of the bone may be suspected. The duration of the disease, also, will probably throw some light upon the probable state of things inside the new case. The separation of the sequestrum having been ascertained, the Surgeon must adopt measures for its extraction. The part should first be rendered bloodless by Esmarch’s apparatus if the disease is situated in a limb. If the necrosis lx; p^riplK^al, all that is necessary is to make an incision down it through the soft parts, either l)y directly cutting upon it or by slitting up sinnses with a probe-pointed bistoury, and then to remove it with a pair of forceps, or to tilt it off the bed of gi-anulations on which it is lying, by intro- ducing the end of an elevator beneath its edge.