855 FOR ABSCESS AND HYDATIDS OF LIVER. abscess is made certain by the use of the aspirator. It may be emptied in tin's vray; but this rarely f>Ives more than temporary relief. In order to effect a cure, it is in most cases necessary to evacuate tlie pus and drain the cavity. The mode of doinu; this will vary with the depth and the situation of the abscess. In all cases it should be done with the strictest antiseptic precautions. Accordins: to Sir Joseph Fayrer it is always better to open in front if possible. If the abscess is distinctly pointing- below the ribs, this may be done by a free incision, as adhesions will certainly be present between the opposed peritoneal surfaces. As the liver substance is cut, there is a most alamiing gush of blood, but this soon stops if pressure be applied by means of a sponge. A large drainage-tube must then be inserted, and the case treated antiseptically in the same way as any other abscess. If the abscess point behind, under the lower ribs, it may be necessary to remove a portion of one of the ribs to admit a drainage-tube of sufficient size. If the abscess be deep, i and indicated merely by bulging, without evident pointing, a free incision can- 9 not be safely made. A large trochar may then be introduced, and left in for a few days, being replaced by a drainage-tube as soon as the track is sufficiently established. If the puncture is made in front, fatal peritonitis may ensue if no adhesions are present ; to avoid this danger, Volkmaun recommends that the surface of the liver should be exposed by an incision through the abdominal wall ^vith antiseptic precautions. The wound may then be kept open by the insertion of a piece of carbolic gauze between its edges till adhesions have formed, when the abscess may be safely opened as above described. Injection of the abscess is not necessary if antiseptic treatment is carried out, but should this fail, and the discharge become foul, the cavity must be fr-equently washed out through the tube with some antiseptic solution. Hydatids of the Liver.—A hydatid cyst is characterized by a gradual progi-essive enlargement of the liver, regular or lobulated in form, smooth on the surface and rounded at the edge. The general health suffers but little, there is no fever and no pain until the tumour reaches a considerable size and causes local peritonitis with the formation of adliesions. T\Jien the tumour is very large, suppuration may take place. For a more detailed description of this disease I must refer the reader to works on medicine. ►Surgical interference should never be undertaken until the tumour reaches such a size as to become a soiu’ce of inconvenience to the patient. If any doubt exists as to its nature this may be at once cleared up by the use of the aspirator, the fluid of a hydatid cyst resembling nothing in the body except cerebro-spinal fluid (Yol. I., p. 97G). The following are the chief modes of treatment which have been adopted in this disease:— Aci(jpU7icture.—^lany cysts have been cm-ed after simple puncture by means of acupuncture needles repeated at short intervals. It appears that tlie fluid escapes through the ])unctures and is absorbed. This simple treatment has, li however, very frequently been followed by suppuration, necessitating a free opening of the cyst to save the patient. It is said also that it may lead to the diffusion of the pai’.asites through the peritoneal cavity with the formation of new cysts. Elnclrolyais has been ti-ied in several cases, but presents no advantages over simple puncture. Aspiration frequently repeated has also cured many cases, and is perhaps the