901 TREATMENT OF PROLAPSUS ANI. Hi oplication of the ligature, or by the clamp and cauteiy ; excision, though ti'Sy, being objectionable in this as in the case of piles, on account of the 4V iiger from haiinoirhage. j Application of Ligature.—The patient having had the bowels ft’eely i’.iened on the preceding day, and an enema of tepid water on the morning of l|>teration, should be directed to sit over a pan of hot water, in order to make e prolapsus descend ; a portion of it may then be seized with a pair of oad-ended forceps, such as are represented in Fig. 814, drawn Avell forwards |; -d firmly tied with a strong piece of whip-cord. A similar process is then peated on the opposite side of the anus. Should there be any difficulty account of the shape of the protrusion in ligaturing the base firmly, ;is may be obviated by transfixing it with a hi©morrhoidal needle, and [ ine it on each side. I think, however, that it is better, if possible, to avoid this. If the protrusion be very large the ligatures should not be ; ule to include too much, lest the muscular coat, or perhaps even the serous, i ve also descended, and should be accidentally included, or lest a stricture the bowel should follow the operation. The ends of the ligature must then cut short, the whole protrusion returned into the bowel, the external flaps >skin cut off, and a morphia-suppository introduced into the bowel. Small •ses of opium or morphia may subsequently be administered, so as to rest all peristaltic action for a few days. Should the ulcerated siu’face show >Y difficulty iu healing, it must be touched with the nitrate of silver. This L-eration always leaves a permanent cure. ‘The ligature of prolapsus, like that of internal piles, is not very painful, ;i for it chloroform need not be administered ; indeed, in some cases it is, haps, better that it should not be given, as the protrusion is apt to slip up ;der its influence, the patient not being able to exercise the proper expulsive orts. But, as the excision of the external flaps and piles is attended by yy sharp suffering, it is as well to administer the anaesthetic at the time sen they are bemg removed. [f the clamp and cautery be used they are applied in the same way as for •3S. Should a prolapsus become strangulated, it would be necessary to try to ruce it through the sphincter by the employment of the taxis; if this cannot i.dily be accomplished, free incisions may be made into it; if it be not re- • ;ed, it vdll slough away, and thus undergo permanent cure. Prolapsus of the Rectum.—As before stated this is rare in adults and is lorn extensive. It can only be suspected when the amount extruded from anus is veiy large. In children, on the other hand, a prolapsus almost ariably includes the whole of the coats of the bowel. It presents a smooth surface and projects usually for some distance from the anus. As much six or seven inches have been known to be extruded. It has before been nted out that intussusception commencing at the ilio-cfecal valve may reach anus and actually project from it. In this condition the valve itself forms apex of the protrusion. If the intussusception occur in the rectum it y still more readily ])roject from the anus. These conditions are easily itinguished from true prolapsus of the rectum, for in the latter condition ■ mucous membrane covering the protruded gut is continuous with the u at the margin of the anus, while in an intussusception the finger can be wed into the Iwwel l>y the side of the projecting invagination. Prolapsus