768 HERNIA. palm directed forwurdK. 'Phe iiivaf^iiiatioii of the iascia should he commenced from as low a point as the cntaiicons incision will permit, so as to push the invaginating linger as much as ])ossihle between the sac of the hernia and the spermatic cord. When the linger is in the canal, its poipt should reach the internal opening of the heiMiia, and the cord should be distinctly ])erce])tible to it and protected by it. The point of the linger will then be ])laced behind the lower border of the internal oblupie, and must render this point ])rominent at the surface by being hooked forward. The Surgeon will now be sensible of the edge of the conjoined tendon, raised in relief to the inner side of the invaginating linger, and in contact with its radial border. Next, the needle, stout, blunt-pointed, and curved, mounted on a strong handle, is to be passed along the radial border of the finger as far as just l)eyond the extreme joint, at which point it is made to pass through the conjoined tendon and the external oblique aponeurosis, till it is seen to raise the skin, which is then to be drawn upwards and inwards as far as possible before the needle is pushed through it. Then a stout copper wire, silvered, about two feet long, and bent into a convenient hook at each end, is hooked on to the eye of the needle; and the latter is withdrawn and unhooked, leaving the lower end of the wire in the scrotal incision, and the upper end in the groin-puncture. The invaginating finger is then placed on the outer side of the cord, behind Poupart’s ligament, as far from the border of the external ring as possible, raising the ligament on its point. The needle is then passed along the ulnar border of the finger, and pushed through the external pillar close to Poupart’s ligament opposite to the internal ring, the skin being drawn outwards till the point of the needle appears at the former puncture, through which it is then pushed. The upper hook of the wire is then hooked on and drawn dowm with the needle into and through the scrotal incision. Next, the spermatic cord opposite to the scrotal incision is to be carefully separated fi'om the sac of the hernia by the finger and thumb, placed upon the skin in the same manner as in the operation for ligaturing varicocele. The needle, detached again from the wire, is then passed into the lower angle of the scrotal incision, and made to traverse the tissues between the cord and the hernial sac, and to emerge at the upper angle of the incision. The inner end of the wire is then hooked on to the needle and di’awu with it across between the cord and sac. A little care must here be taken to avoid any kink in the wire, which must be drawn down until the part which remains in the wound is quite straight. The ends of the wire are then twisted to the extent of three turns, which it will be found useful, for convenience in removing the wire, always to make in the same direction. Traction is then made upon the wire loop which remains in the groin-puncture. This will be found to invaginate the sac and scrotal fascia, and to close up the pillars of the external abdominal ring. The loop must then be twisted by three firm turns well drawl into the groin-puncture. Then the long ends of the wire, being cut off to a suitable length, are to be passed together through the loop lient down to meet them and hooked on to it. Under the arch thus formed a stout pad of lint is placed, and the whole is held firmly by a spica bandage. The patient, after the operation, should be placed in bed with the shouldei’s well raised and the knees bent over a bolster. Any discharge which forms has a free escape downwards, and may be received upo7i a sponge steeped in some