DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 750 has hecomc involved and the axillary glands enlarged. The manner in which the skin is implicated and the appearance it presents is peculiar and characteristic. It becomes involved early by dimpling from below in a trans- verse direction at the upper and outer border of the mamma, where there is a tendency naturally to a fold or crease in the integument. There the skin becomes infiltrated in a transverse line of hard scirrhus, red, depressed and puckered in, with much feeling of constriction and difficulty in raising the arm from the side. The disease, when once it has reached this stage, will of course make rapid progress both locally and constitutionally. That these axillo-mammary cancers arise primarily in the breast-gland there can be no doubt, although their rapid development beyond its limits may, at first, lead to the suspicion that they have commenced outside it. It is only towards the upper and outer border of the mamma that these outgrovdng cancers seem to develop. I have never seen them at the inner or lower part of the gland, unless the whole of its structure had been previously infiltrated. The operation in these cases should be complete and thorough, the whole organ being removed, however healthy the nipple, areola, and some portions of its gland-structure may appear to be. The skin also should be widely removed where implicated, and the dissection carried as high into the axilla as safety will permit. Unless thorough extirpation be practised, speedy and rapid recurrence will ensue. In this, as in all operations for diffused cancer, the wound should be well washed out Avith a solution of chloride of 2iinc (1 to 20), so as to destroy any scattered cells. DISEASES OF THE MALE BBEAST. The Male Breast, though rarely the seat of disease, may occasionally Fig. 778. —Scirrliou.s Cancor of tbo JIale Breast. become affected in a somewhat similar manner to the mammary gland of the female. Cases have been recorded in which it Avas hjjTcvirophwd^ and in others IT