PUNCTURE OF BLADDER THROUGH RECTUM. 1117 Ifc may be securely retained by means of a stitch of silver wire passed on either side through the slit in the guard and the contiguous skin of the nates. The cannula should be retained for a few days until urine begins to pass by the urethra, or until a catheter has been passed through the stricture, when it must be withdrawn and the a]Derture left to close. The irritation of the passage of the urine having been removed from the urethra, a catheter may often be passed a few days after the operation ; and the stricture will readily yield to dilatation in the ordinary way. This operation has the advantage of being far easier of performance than the last, and may doubtless occasionally be required in those very rare cases of retention from stricture in which there is no sign of abscess or extravasa- tion in the perinmuin, in which the urethra appears not to be dilated behind the stricture, in which the prostate is not enlarged, and in which uiidei’ chloroform, and with patience, a catheter cannot be passed into the bladder ; a combination of circumstances that will but very rarely indeed occur to a Surgeon skilled in the use of his instruments. The operation of puncture through the rectum is not devoid of danger ; peritonitis, urinary infiltration, and pelvic inflammation and abscess, may result from it. The recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum will sometimes descend so ab- normally low as to cover the las fond of the bladder as far as the prostate, leaving no space for a puncture to be safely made. This condition neces- sarily cannot be determined during life, hence its great danger. I have known two instances in which a double puncture was in this way made through the fold of the recto-vesical pouch, half an inch beyond an unenlarged prostate, for relief of retention. In both cases, death from peritonitis occurred. The preparations are in University College Museum. In a remarkable case that was under my care at the Hospital (in 1859), a sequence occurred which I have never seen noticed : viz., the diffusion of rectal flatus through the areolar tissue of the pelvis and down the thighs and nates, producing an emphysematous condition of these parts and the death of the patient. The case was briefly as follows. A middle-aged man had suffered from traumatic stricture for very many years — indeed, from childhood. He was admitted with retention. As no catheter ever had been or could be passed, I punctured the bladder by the rectum in the usual way. The cannula was removed on the fifth day. He then passed urine urelhram, and continued to do so np to the time of his death. The day after the withdrawal of the cannula he felt very ill, but without any positive or tangible complaint. The next day it was found that the back and inner part of both thighs were emphysematous and crackling, evidently distended with ga.‘<. The emphysema extended downwards and also up the flanks, and ap- peared even in the right arm. There was no pain or discoloration. He died on the following day, the eighth after the puncture. After death no trace of pelvic inflammation, suppuration, or urinary extravasation was found ; but there was much infiltration of gas under tlie pelvic peritoneum, and in the areolar tissue Ixjtwecn the bladder and rectum. The gas had probably passed through the sciatic notches into the posterior parts of the thighs. It was fetid, like intestinal flatus. 4. PunctTire of the Bladder above the Fabes, in cases of retention from stricture, is but seldom resorted to ; although some Surgeons of emi-