250 BPECIAL ANEURISMS. Should it happen before the wound is lioaled, it may be opened up again and a second ligature applied above the situation of the hi-st. Jf the coaS appear to have been damaged by the first ligature, the vessel may be tied on each side of the injured spot. In some cases in which absorI>alde ligatures have been used, the recurrent pulsation has apj)eared at a much later pei’iod in consequence of a restoration of the lumen of the artery. Should this happen, the artery may be safely tied in Hunter’s canal, as was successfully done by C. Heath under these circumstances in University College Hospital. Ligati^e of the Temoral Artery in the Middle of the Thigh (Hunter s Canal). The point at which Hunter tied the artery in his earlier cases, was situated midway between the groin and the knee. At this point the artery lies in the angle formed by the vastus internus on the outer side, and the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus behind. It is covered by a distinct fascia passing between these structures, forming with them the space known as Hunter’s canal. The vein at this point lies to the outer side of the artery, and the long saphenous nerve enters the canal external to the vessels and crosses them superficially. The sartorius muscle covers the fascia closing in the canal. To tie the artery in this situation, the limb is placed in the same position as for the operation in Scarpa’s triangle, and the S.Tt the artery, but the incision must not be made in this line, but one finger’s breadth internal to and parallel to it; otherwise the edge of the sartorius is easily missed. The incision must be from three to four inches in length, and its middle point must coinespond to the middle of the thigh. The fascia lata is exposed, and opened, and the sartorius then comes into view. Its outer edge being found, it is pushed inwards, and held on one side with a copper spatula. The fascia closing the canal is then seen, and must be opened for about an inch and a half, thus exposing the sheath of the vessels (Fig. 493). If the saphenous nerve is seen, it must be drawn to one side with a blunt hook. The vein does not as a rule come into view, for as the limb is lying on its outer side it is beneath the aitery and concealed by it. The sheath of the artery is then carefully opened and the needle passed fi’om the outer side, the same precautions being taken as in the higher ojDeration to avoid wound- ing the vein. The ligature should, if possible, be placed about one inch above the origin of the anastomotic branch. The errors that have to be guarded against in this operation, are, first, operating too low down. It must be remembered that Hunter s ciinal is situated midway between the groin and the knee. Secondly, if the wound be made too far out—in the guiding line of the artery instead of a finger s breadth internal to it—the outer border of the sartorius may be missed, and the vastus internus exposed instead. At this point there is usually an interval in the muscular fibres of the muscle that may be mistaken for the edge of the sartorius. The error is, as a rule,- easily recognized by observing the direction of the muscular fibres, those of the vastus interims being directed downwards and outwards, while those of the sartorius are nearly vertical, slaiitiug a little Fig. 403. — Diagi-ani of Ligature of the Left Fe- moral Artery in Hunter’s canal, s. sartorius drawn inwai’ds ; /. fascia closing the canal, opened ft-eely: a. the arteiy, with a small opening in its sheath for the passage of the needle ; s.n. long saphenous nerve. 1 I '-i I : same guiding line must be taken to find the course of