DIAGXOSIS OF JXGUIXAL IIERXIA. 809 c: f I I ■U ) & 'I ! t \ ♦ V hernia by being always of the smne size, by not being reducible into the cavity of the abdomen, by the absence of all gurgle, and by its very defined outline. If the testicle l>c drawn downwards the encysted hydrocele becomes fixed and is no longer reducible even into the canal. In the diffused hydrocele of the oord, the absence of distinct impulse on coughing, the impossibility of return- ing the swelling completely within the abdominal cavity, and of feeling the cord in a free and natural state in hernia, will prevent the diseases from being confounded with each other, c. Hcematocele of ihe Cord. Here the soft and fluctuating nature of the swelling, the ecchymosis, the impossibility of com- plete reduction, and the absence of gurgling, will indicate its true nature. d. Fatty or other Tumours occasionally form on the cord ; but the circum- scribed character and limited size of these swellings, the absence of impulse on coughing, and of reducibility into the cavity of the abdomen, and their becoming fixed wlien the testicle is drawn down so as to put the cord on the stretch, will point out that they are not hernia3. e. Lodyment of the Testis in the Inyuinal Canal will give rise to a tumour, which closely resembles incom- plete inguinal hernia : and if it should happen to become inflamed in this situation, the difficulty of the diagnosis from strangulated hernia may be very considerable. In the ordinary uiidescended testis, the absence of that organ in the scrotum on the affected side, the peculiar sickening pain occasioned by the pressure of the tumour, the absence of gurgling, and of all possibility of reduction, will enable the diagnosis to be effected. /. Inflamed Undescended Testis. From this it is not always at once easy to effect the diagnosis of incomplete inguinal hernia in a state of strangulation, with which indeed it may be complicated. This point in diagnosis will be more fully treated of in •speaking of congenital hernia. In the meanwhile, it may be stated that the absence of persisient and continuous vomiting and constipation, the feel of the tumour, hard below, elastic above, and the peculiar pain when it is compressed, will enable the Surgeon to recognize the true nature of the tumour as being a retained and inflamed testis. 2, 'When the hernia has descended into the scrotum, it may be confounded with : a. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vayinalis. In this disease there is an oval •or pyriform tumour, usually translucent, unchangeable in size or shape by pres.sure, and having the cord clear and distinct above it, with an absence of impulse on coughing, or of gurgling in attempts at reduction. The patient will usually have noticed in hydrocele that the swelling first appeared at the bottom of the scrotum, while in hernia it descended from above. In cases of •congenital hydrocele in children, in Avhich there is still an opening communicating with the peritoneal cavity, the tumour may be diminished in size by steady preasure, but gradually returns, fluctuates, and is translucent. In these cases its translucency, and the gradual manner in which the sac is emptied and is refilled, very different from the sudden slip u]) and protrusion of a hernia, enable the Surgeon to establish the diagnosis. In infants, hoAvcver, it must be remembered that a hernia is often translucent, as it seldom contains omentum, and the contents of the gut may be chiefly gas. It not unfre(|ucntly haj)pcns that hernia is romplicated with hydroceU' of the tunica vayinalis. In these cases the two 8ci)arate tumours can usually be distinguished, there being some degree of constrifition, or of con.solidation, between them. The hydrocele Avill ])resent its ‘•rdiriar)- characters of translucency, irreducibility, and circumscribed outline, and is commonly placed anterior to the hernia, which lies towards the back of