TREATMENT OF STRAJOULATION BY OPERATION. 783 I liat I have more than once tviLuessed about the fourtli or fifth day, tlie patient dtimately recovering'. In some cases, wliere the nipping of the strangulated intcstineluis been severe, .^et not snfticient to arrest permanently the peristaltic action or to destroy its dtality, constipation and retching, vith nausea, may continue; and the bumour, if the hernia have been small and deeply seated (more particularly if . emoral), may continue to be felt, though less tense than before ; consisting amply of the thickened and inflamed sac, with serous fluid in it. In these nrcumstances, we must be careful not to operate. I have, on two or three iccasions. seen an empty sac operated on to the annoyance of the Surgeon and langer of the patient. The mistake may be avoided by observing that the ym})toms gradually lessen in severity by waiting, and that the tympanitis -ubsides, the abdomen becoming flat and supple. The length of time during which the congested condition of the bowel will ontinue after a strangulated portion of intestine has been reduced, is very considerable. In a case of strangulated femoral hernia wdiich was some time ago under my care, reduction was effected, but, strangulation recurring at the nid of twelve days, an operation became necessary ; this was performed, and ,he patient died on the eighth day after it, or the twenty-first from the first ?,tran2:ulation. On examination, the small intestine was found congested in ;wo distinct portions, each of which was about eight inches in length ; several ;eet of healthy gut intervening betw'eeii them. One of these congested por- uons lay opposite the wound, and was evidently the intestine that Avas last krangulated. The other w'as altogether away from the seat of operation, but (■ vas equally darkly congested, being almost of a black colour, and was clearly iiat portion which had been constricted some time previously; and Avhich, ilthough tAventy days had elapsed, had not as yet recoA’ered itself. When a •jecoud strangulated hernia exists it, of course, must either be reduced by the .;axis. or the operation practised on it. OPEBATION FOR STRANGULATED HERNIA. f \ 4 All operations for hernia should be performed with efficient antiseptic B orecautions. The Surgeon and his assistants must first carefully clean their f mands (p. 247, Vol. L), and the sponges and instruments must be disinfected i <is already described (p. 37, Yol. L). The skin of the patient for some ||idistance around the seat of the incision must be also cleaned and disinfected. The carbolic spray, if at hand, may be used, as experience has abundantly proved that in an operation for hernia it iieA^er does any harm, and in the opinion of many excellent Surgeons it is an additional security against septic peritonitis ; especially as in operations for hernia it is impossible to clean out the caifity should any blood or fluid from the sac find admission to it. If the a|;^ray be not at hand, the wound may be occasionally irrigated Avith a carbolic otion (1 in 40), or other antiseptic solution, care being taken that the fluid iloes not pass into the peritoneal cavity; a basin of carbolic acid lotion should >oc at hand, into which the Surgeon should dip his hands before introducing i the finger into the abdominal cavity. Should a coil of intestine l>e unaA'oidably exjxjsed for any length of time, it may be covered Avith a piece of linen rao- i|-s<jaked in a wai-m 1 in 40 solution of carbolic acid. If the ])atient be much collapsed, the extremities must be covered with Avarm blankets, and no more I f)f the body c.xposed than is nccessaiy.