742 n IS EASES OF TILE BREAST. extirpation of cancerous tumours of the breast from all patients who may present themselves in whatever stage of the disease ; and though such a practice would doubtless be folloAvcd by results fully as disastrous as those that occurred to Macfarlane, Boyer, and others ; yet there can be little doubt that a Surgeon who would employ a certain princijjle of selection, would obtain a very different and a far more successful result in his practice. Sir B. Brodie very clearly and succinctly pointed out the most important circumstances by Avhich the question as to the propriety of operating in these cases should be determined. Before doing so, he very justly dwells on the fact that in many cases the operation may fail, and the disease speedily recur, through the negligence of the Surgeon in leaving portions of the gland, slices of the tumour, or contaminated tissues, and that thus the operation may receive discredit for what is in reality the fault of the Surgeon who has per- formed it. With reference to operation, cancerous diseases of the breast maybe divided into three classes :—1. Those in which it is the duty of the Surgeon to dis- countenance excision ; 2. Those in Avhich the operation is of doubtful expe- diency ; and 3. Those in which it is the duty of the Surgeon to recommend it. 1. Cases unfit foi* Operation.—This class includes cases presenting the following conditions : a. Strongly marked constitutional cachexy ; l>. Disease in both breasts ; c. Secondary deposits in internal organs ; d. kluch enlarge- ment of the glands under, and especially of those above, the clavicle; c. OEdema of the hand and arm from pressure on the axillary vein; /. Adhesion of the tumour to the ribs and intercostal muscles; g. Hard, brawny, and infiltrated skin, of a reddish-brown colour, having a hard, leathery feel, or a greasy, glazed appearance ; h. Kapid growth of the tumour in a patient with a strong hereditary taint; i. An extensively ulcerated and fungating tumour, with marked constitutional cachexy. 2. Doubtful Cases.—a. If the patient be aged, weak, angemic, or very fat, and the tumour large, it is seldom expedient to operate, as the shock may destroy life. 1. When the skin is merely dimpled in by a kind of pedicle passing from the tumour to its under surface, an operation may be performed, unless other circumstances should contraindicate it ; but in such cases it is necessary widely to excise the integument surrounding the attached point. The cancer-cells, as I have more than once had occasion to observe, will have diffused themselves extensively through the neighbouring skin, which, to the naked eye and to the touch, has a perfectly healthy appearance, the tumour being surrounded by a kind of halo of cancer-infiltration, c. When there is but moderate enlargement of axillary glands, which are so situated as to admit of removal, the operation may be performed, d. When the cancer is ulcerated, it is seldom proper to operate ; but, if all other conditions be favourable, this even need not in some special cases be a bar. As Sir B. Brodie has pointed out, the patient’s existence may sometimes in these cases be pro- longed, and her comfort materially increased, by removing the diseased and ulcerated mass. Old age exercises a material influence on the expediency of operating for cancer of the breast. As a rule, I do not think it advisable to do so after seventy years of age, unless the distress from pain or the discomfort fioin fetid ulceration be so great as to render removal at any risk justifiable, riic danger of the operation is gi’eatly increased by advanced age, more espcciall} I ’ li I t i I 1 j d , ! I 'r A ill ! 1 ,>i b; ! 1