SPECIAL UERNI/K. 8i6 FEMORAL HERNIA. l>y Femoral Hernia is meant a jirotrusioii that escapes under Poinjart’s lig-ament, and enters the slieath of the vessels internally to the femoral vein This hernia passes down to the innermost compartment of the sheath, whioli is occupied by tat and lymphatics, and usually contains a ^land or two. It passes first of all through the crural ring, where it has Climbernat’s ligainent to its inner side ; the septum which separates the femoral vein from the inner compartment of the sheath of the vessels, to its outer aspect; Poupart’s Ijcra- ment in front; and the bone behind (Pig. 798). After passing throimh the Fig. 798.—1. Femoral Artery ; 2. Femoral Vein : 3. Innermost Compartment of the Sheath of the Vessels, into which a small Hernia is protruding; 4. Saphena Vein. ' crural ring, it enters the crural canal, which extends for about half an inch down the thigh in front of the pectineus muscle, and is covered by the iliac pro- longation of the fascia lata. As it a2Dproaches the lower corner of the saphen- ous opening where the canal terminates, it jiasses under the falciform jirocess of the fascia lata, and out upon the thigh through the saphenous aperture; here it ex^iands, becomes rounded, and has a tendency to turn upwards over Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 799), lying in this way njion the iliac region, and sometimes even ascending to some distance upon the anterior abdominal wall. In the descent of the hernia through this course, it first of all pushes before it the peritoneal sac, and then receives an investment of the snbserous areolar tissue—the septum crurale, a mass of dense areolar tissue, containing fat and lymphatics, occujdying the crural ring. This septum often becomes in- corporated and matted with the contiguous portion of the sheath, thus con- stituting the fascia propria of this hernia, which is commonly thickened, laminated, and of an opaque fatty structure, like omentum. As the hernia continues to descend, it comes into relation with the cribrifomi fascia, which occupies the saphenous ojiening ; and, lastly, it pushes before it the integu- mental structures. As the tumour descends through this course, it necessarily comes into re- lation with very important parts (Fig. 800). Thus it is separated from the femoral vein solely by the septum of the sheath of the vessels. It has the epigastric artery above and to its outer side; and the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, almost immediately above it. The obturator