I MORBID CONDITIOXS OF THE URETERS AND PELVIS. 905 onward flow is offered by the partially obstructed orifices of the ureters. Ihe degree of obstruction ottered by a hy])ertrophied bladder varies much, as it is not uncommon to find considerable thickening of the wall of the bladder without any marked signs of pressure iii the ureters or kidneys. In cases of villous tumour of the bladder, one ureter and kidney only may be Ibund to be attected, and it will then be seen that the growth implicates the orifice of that ureter. In others, both sides may be equally attected, and both orifices healthy, but it will then be found that the growth has obstructed the neck of the bladder, and that the signs of pressure in the m’eters and kidneys are due to hypertrophy or over-distension of the bladder. Diseased Conditions of the Ureters and Pelvis of the Kidney.— In such cases as we have been considering, tln-ee chief forms are met with : 1. The results of simple over-distension without acute inflammation : 2. Acute inflammation without signs of over-distension : 3. A combination of the two. I ">imple chronic over-distension leads to dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of :he kidney, with some thickening of their walls. The thickening is in part due to hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the ureter, and in part to fibroid overgrowth of the submucous tissue. The mucous membrane is of an opaque vhite colour, and free from pigmentation or ulceration. At the same time hat the m-eter becomes dilated, it is often increased somewhat in length, and s more or less tortuous, and not unfrequently irregular pouch-like dilatations occur. The dilatation is gometimes so great that the ureter resembles a piece !)f small intestine. In inflammation of the ureter and of the pelvis of the adney, we find the mucous membrane swollen and softened, of an intense red lolour, and frequently showing patches of a slate-grey, resulting from previous •.ttacks, as in the bladder. Ulceration is not uncommon, and often the ulcers I i. re coated with a tenacious slough like a diphtheritic membrane. The urine -ontained in such a lu’eter and pelvis is often ammoniacal and abominably rotid, and mixed with much pus and mucus. There is every reason to believe ;hat this is a consequence of extension of decomposition from the urine in the tladder to that in the ureter. The severity and acuteness of the inflammation 11 the ureter are probably due to the irritation of this foul and decomposing rrine. But it by no means follows, because the urine in the bladder is tecomposing, that the same condition extends up the ureter. In the great 1 lajority of cases, the extension of decomposition to the pelvis occurs late in le disease, and acts as the final cause of death, by exciting acute inflammation i the kidney. This extension does not take place on account of any iicorapetence of the valves or regurgitation of urine, as, on testing the valves I such cases they will be found to be competent. It probably creeps through le orifice of the ureter, by means of the tenacious mucus secreted ft’om the ehis and ureter, iiTitated Ijy over-distension. This adheres to the mucous iirl'ace and forms a stagnant layer in which decomposition may extend Dwards. If after washing out a bladder with Condy’s fluid, or some other atiseptic, the first urine that enters from the ureters and flows from the utheter be ammoniacal, the condition of the patient is always serious, as the ^composition has spread from the bladder to the pelvis of the kidney, where ) local means can reach it. 1 Morbid Conditions of the Kidney.—The conditions found in the kidney self vary considerably. They may be divided as follows : 1. Changes rcsult- g from pressure by obstruction to the entrance of urine into the bladder :