625 CLEFTS OF SOFT PALATE—STAPHYLORAPIIY. removed. A piece of ice fixed in a holder may then he applied to the wound to check the hmmorrhag’e, while the fauces are frequently cleared of blood and mucus by means of sponges on sponge-holders. ;5. When the bleeding is arrested, the Surgeon proceeds to the next step, that of introducing the sutures. The best material for these is in most cases, fine silver wire or silkworm gut. Cat-gut is absorbed too readily and is apt to yield before union is complete. Silk, which was formerly used, cannot be retained beyond a few days, as it excites too much irritation when soaked in decomposing fluids. Horse-hair will be found useful in uniting the uvula, but is not strong enough for the other parts of the palate. Wire stitches arc usually introduced by a tubular 1 needle .specially constructed for the purpose, from which the wire is protruded 1 by a small wheel at the lower end. In the absence of this apparatus they may be very readily passed as follows ; a common nmvus needle is threaded with I a loop of fine .silk ; this is passed through the right side of the cleft and drawn i out at the mouth. A similar loop is then passed on the left side. The right I loop is then passed tlmough the left, which is withdrawn, carrying the first loop Avith it through the left side of the palate. There is thus a double j ligature passed across the cleft having two free ends on the right side and a 1 loop on the left. A fine hook is then made with a pair of dissecting forceps i on a piece of Avire ; this is hooked into the loop, AA^hich is then Avithdrawn, caiTA’ing the AA'ire Avith it across the cleft. This proceeding, though it seems rather complicated in a written description, can be carried out with great ease and rapidity; and the needle being passed on both sides from before backwards, the sutures can be inserted more accurately and evenly than when on one side it is passed from behind. In tying the knots, great care should be taken that no undue traction be exercised upon the parts ; in fact, the use of the sutures is not to draAA^, but simply to hold, the parts together ; the division of the muscles has caused these to be relaxed, so that they hang doAvn loosely, and merely require to be held in apposition by the sutures. The patient must , next be put to bed, and eA'eiy care taken to avoid any movement of the palate. He should be restricted to fluid but nourishing food for a feAv days, and should I be directed to SAvalloAv this with as little effort as possible, and indeed should 1 • not be allowed anything solid until complete union has taken place. Speak- !: ing must be strictly forbidden until union is complete. 4. The stitches should I he left in for several days; and, indeed, need not be disturbed so long as they j' produce no imtation. They usually require removal by the eighth or tenth j day, but occasionally may be left Avith adA'antage for some time longer ; they I should then be cut across with scissors and drawn out, the upper one first, i the middle next, and the lower one last. Should there be any aperture left in the palate, Avhere unioji has not taken place, this may be closed by touching it i with a point of nitrate of silver, or the thermo-cautery. The voice in these cases does not usually recoA’er its natural tone after the operation, although in some cases it may. The nasal or “ Punch-like ” voice that is often left after operations, appears to arise from tAVO causes. The first is the mere habit of faulty articulation, and this can be corrected by careful instruction in elocution. The second, AA*hich is much more H difficult to deal Avith, arises from a mechanical condition, and is dependent I on the contraction upAvards of the ])alate along the line of the cicatrix, so I that the velum becomes unable to shut off the posterior nares from the I i)har)-nx. ^Mason has ])roposed to remedy this condition by dividing the soft