613 HARELIP, PLASTIC SUR&ERY OP THE LIPS. Hark-Lip.—By hare-lip is meant a congenital perpendicular fissure or fissures through the upper lip, the result of an arrest of development. A¥ithout going into the details of the development of the face, the mode of origin of hare-lip, cleft palate, and congenital transverse fissure of the cheeks, or macro- stoma, may he made clear by recalling the main features of the process. The face is developed partly from a central process, the fr’onto-nasal jilate, de- scending from the front of the cranium between the ocular vesicles. From this are developed the prominent part of the nose, the septum nasi, the columna, the central part of the upper lip, and the inter-maxillary bone with the incisor teeth. The remainder of the face above the line of the lower jaw is developed from a lateral process on each side, the superior maxillary plate, which gradually gi'ows forwards till it coalesces with the vertical process just mentioned. From these processes are developed the cheeks and the whole of the superior maxillary bone, except the part of the palate corresponding to the incisor teeth which, as already stated, is formed from the fronto-nasal plate. The lower jaw, and the soft parts covering it, are formed from similar processes, the inferior maxillary plates advancing from each side and coalescing in the middle line. The superior and inferior maxillary plates coalesce at each side, leaving the open space of the mouth in the middle line. The lines in which these various processes unite are roughly indicated in the diagram on p. 974, Yol. I. The mode of origm of the various deformities of the face is therefore evident. If one maxillary plate fails to unite vdth the naso-frontal in front, a cleft will be left through the upper lip on one side of the middle Mne, forming a single hare-lip. If both plates fail to unite a double hare-lip results, and the intermaxillaiy bone may be left adherent to the tip of the nose and septum nasi. If at the same time the development of the naso-frontal process is arrested, we get the rare condition of a wide gap in the middle line with absence of the incisor portion of the superior Fig. 700.—Ordinary Double Fig. 701.—Ordinary Double Hare-lip. Hare-lip. Side View. riorly, cleft paiate results, the fissure being single, and in the middle line as far as the posterior part of the premaxillary bone. If the arrest of develop- ment is more complete, the fissure may extend to the lip, deviating in front from the middle line as it passes between the main part of the superior maxillary and the pre-maxillary bone. If both sides fail to unite coin])letelv the fissure is single behind and double in front, passing on each side of the maxilla. If the anterior parts unite but develop- ment is arrested poste- Fig. 090.—Single Hare-lip.