BISUASIIS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 40 CHAPTER XXXIX. DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. INFLAMMATION OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. Lymphangitis, or as it was formerly called, Angeioleucitis, is a diffuse inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. Causes.—In the vast majority of cases it arises from the irritation caused by the presence within the vessels of the products of an infective inflammation affecting the tissues from which they derive their lymph. It thus forms rather a complication of these inflammations than an independent disease. ]\Iost commonly it is associated with cutaneous erysipelas, but it is also met with in other forms of infective inflammation ; thus it is a frequent result of the inoculation of virulent matter from dead bodies, and is occasionally seen in the lymphatics leading from a soft chancre. In most cases, therefore, a wound or abrasion serves as the starting point of the inflammation. It is veiy rarely indeed that lymphangitis occurs without some such external cause ; yet we are certainly warranted in considering it as of idiopathic origin in some instances. I have at least seen cases in which careful examination has failed in detectmg any breach of surface or evidence of local infection. The disease is predisposed to by the same causes that favour the development of erysipelas, as by atmospheric vicissitudes, by particular seasons of the year, more espe- cially the early spring, and by epidemic influences. Broken health and the neglect of hygienic precautions also tend to induce it. Morbid Anatomy.—The walls of the inflamed vessel become swollen, softened, and inflltrated with small round cells, and the endothelium des- quamates. Tessier states that the lymph coagulates, forming a rosy clot which plugs the vessel. The inflammation though commencing from indtation within the vessel, soon extends beyond its walls, the surrounding areolar tissue becomes swollen and infiltrated with inflammatory products, and some- times suppm-ation may take place around the inflamed lymphatic. Symptoms.—During the progress of an ordinary injury, the patient is seized with chills or rigors, with considerable elevation of temperature reach- ing 103° F. or 102° F., attended, perhaps, by vomiting or diarrhoea. These symptoms may precede by twelve or fourteen hours the local signs of the disease, but more commonly accompany them. On examining the part it will, if superficial, be seen to be covered by a number of fine red streaks, at first scattered, but gradually approximating to one another so as to form a distinct band, about an inch in breadth, running from the part affected along the inside of the limb to the neighbouring lymphatic glands, which will be felt to be enlarged and tender. The band itself feels somewhat doughy and thickened. Sometimes one lymphatic can be felt hard and isolated like a piece of whip- cord. There is usually more or less oedema of the limb, from the implication of the deeper lymphatic vessels and their obstruction by the inflammation. Along the course of the inflamed lymphatics, erysipelatous-looking patches not