888 DISEASES OF THE LAllGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. nuiooiis areolar tissue becomes stretclied and lax, and the ease is apt to become one of prolapsus ani. External Haemorrhoids are those that are situated below tiie verge of the anus, and that are invested h}'- cutaneous, or, utmost, by muco-cutaneous tissue, liefore appearing as defined tumours, they usually constitute longitudinal folds that surround the anal aperture, or radiate from it as from a centre ; ajid, their tegumentary covering consisting of the thin skin of the part, they resemble folds of this tissue rather than of mucous membrane. In colour, they vary from that of the natural structures to a pink or purplish hue. Their size varies, according to the state of congestion ; and hence the same tumour may at one time ho soft, flaccid, and loose, apparently nothing more than a fold of integu- ment, and at another may become tense, tumid, and ready to hurst. Symptoms.—AVhen of small size and recent formation, external piles do not in general give rise to much distress, hut merely some local heat, pricking, and itching, with a sense of fulness after defaecatioii; hut when of large size, and inflamed or irritated, they may occasion very acute suffering. There is not onlyaleeply-seated, dull, aching and throbbing pain in the pile itself, hut this shoots uj) the side of the rectum, through the perinaeum, and into the nates, and is much increased when the patient stands or walks. After a few days these symptoms subside ; suppuration either taking place in the pile, or the blood contained in it coagulating. The parts are, however, left in a thickened and indurated state, and do not really resume their former soft and flaccid condition, inflammatory effusion taking place into the areolar tissue, and the contained blood perhaps coagulating, so that the tumour can no longer be emptied by pressure, hut assumes the form of a broad, rounded, or indurated mass. Internal Piles.—When the pile is situated altogether within the verge of the anus, it is called internal; of these there are two princij^al varieties, the Lo7igiiiidinal and the Glohular. The Longitudinal, or, as it is sometimes called, the Fleshy pile, is generally met with about an inch or two up the rectum. It is spongy, elastic, firm, or tough, of a dark reddish or dusky brown tint, tapering upwards from a broad base. It seldom bleeds or varies much in size ; between the piles are found small curtains, valves, or folds of mucous membrane, forming sacculi or pouches, with their concavities looking upwards. These sacculi are apt to become distended and pressed downwards by the faeces, especially if the motions be hard and the bowels have been constipated, thus giving rise to a tendency to prolapsus. When the haemorrhoid assumes a Globular form, it constitutes the ordinary bleeding pile. It may be situated on a broad base ; or, as not unfrequently happens, its point of attachment to the mucous membrane becoming elongated, it assumes a pedunculated shape, hanging downwards into the cavity of the rectum. It is of a dark bluish colour, and numerous small vessels of a brighter hue than the body of the pile may be seen ramifying on the mucous membrane investing it. Its surface is at first smooth and shining, and may continue so throughout, being covered with a thin and delicate prolongation of the lining membrane of the gut. Not, unfrequently, however, superficial ulceration takes place, and then it has a granulated strawberry-like appearance. Sym2iioms.—Internal piles are usually attended by a sensation of heat, itehing, pricking, or smarting about the anus, and a feeling as if there were a i; f ! I 1 \