836 INTESTINA L OBSTR UCTION. 2. The mode of invasion. '3. The general condition of the patient, 4. The character of the ])ain. r>. d’he cliaracter of the vomiting. G. TJie duration and degree of constipation. 7. Tlie physical examination of the belly. 8. Examination of the rectum. 9. The character and quantity of the urine. 1. The Previous History often throws much light upon the nature of the disease. In cases of internal hernia or obstruction hy bands or twists, and in intussusception, the patient has usually enjoyed good health uj) to the time of the obstruction, although in some cases there is a history of a previous attack of the same kind. If the other symptoms seem to point to strangulation by a band, diseases likely to cause local adhesions in the peritoneum such as typhoid fever, typhlitis, or ovaritis in the female may be inquired for. In chronic obstruction arising from gradual closure of a stricture there is a history of gradually increasing difficulty in obtaining relief from the Ijowels, with un- easiness and dyspepsia. Most commonly there have been periods of prolonged constipation followed ly diarrhoea. These alternating periods of constipation and diarrhoea are very characteristic, and should always raise a suspicion of stricture, most probably in the great intestine. In cases of obstruction of the small intestine from impaction of a gall stone, there will be a history of prolonged pain and discomfort in the region of the gall-hladde'r during the time that the stone Avas making its way by ulceration into the intestine. 2. Mode of Invasion.—When the attack commences with severe pain coming on so suddenly that the patient can state the exact moment at Avhich it seized him, or when this is quickly folloAved by the other signs of acute obstruction, and when up to the time of attack he was in good health there is strong reason to belieAn that it is due to an internal hernia, a tAvist, or an acute intussusception. When the attack begins with uneasiness, increasing steadily in a few hours until it becomes actual pain, followed at some interval by the signs of obstruction it may be due to impaction of u foreign body, as of a gall stone, to inflammation of the small intestines, or to sudden obstruction of an old stricture. When the symptoms begin gradually, with uneasiness and con- stipation, they may be due to any one of the chronic forms of obstruction. 3. The General Condition of the Patient.—Early collapse iB, 2i s\gn oi one of the acute forms of obstruction, internal hernia, twists or acute intus- susception. The pulse is considerably quickened in all these. The tempera- ture is variable, usually slightly elevated at first, but soon becoming sub- normal. In the chronic forms collupse comes on slowly. In both acute and chronic obstruction the tongue soon becomes fumed and dry, and tliimt is often a prominent symptom. 4. The Character of the Pain.—Acute abdominal pain fi.red in one spot with paroxysmal exacerbations is met with in twists, or internal strangula- tions. In acute intussusception the pain is of the same character, but commonly less acute. In chronic intussusception the pain is paroxysmal but usually distinctly localized. In chronic obstruction of the great intestine it is diffused, and there may be prolonged intervals of ease. 5. The Character of the Vomiting.—Early voimtmg speeddy becom- ing stercoraceous, is characteristic of acute obstruction of the small intestines. Early vomiting, not stercoraceous for from tAvo to three days, is obsennd in tAvists of the great intestine, acute obstruction of an old stricture, in acute intussusception of the ilio-colic vahn or colon, and in inflammatory affections of the small intestine. Vomiting, slight at first, and not stei'coraccous for a week I I