212 SPECIAL aneurisms. half on tlic left, the superior intercostal arises from the subclavian artery between the scaleni. AVhen this is the case, there would probably be but a • slender chance of the occlusion of the artery by lig’ature in this situation. One principal danger in ligaturing the subclavian artery at any point above the first rib, certainly arises from interference with the fascia whicli lies between it and the scalene muscles, separating it from the pleura, and which is con- i tinuous with the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, being indeed the i| deep portion of the ascending layer of what Sir A. Cooper has described as ,| the “ thoracic fascia,” and which helps to form the superior boundary of the • chest, being continuous in the neck with the deep cervical fascia. After the i deeper layers of the cervical fascia have been opened, this fine areolar tissue ( presents itself ; and, if septic inflammation be excited in it, the morbid process ^ will readily extend by continuity of tissue into the thorax by the anterior mediastinum, invading ultimately the pleura and pericardium. Hence, when- c ever it is practicable, the Surgeon should keep the point of the needle close to i that part of the artery which lies upon the first rib, as there is less risk here of : opening into the deep areolar tissue of the neck. ’ Results of Ligature of the Suhclaviau.—The general results of ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course for spontaneous aneurism in the axillary are by no means satisfactory. Thus of 48 cases of aneurism of the axillary artery, not dependent upon any external wound, in J which the artery Avas ligatured above the clavicle, I found 23 cures against 25 ;| deaths. This result was so unfavourable, and so different, indeed, from what Jj I anticipated, that I was led to analyse carefully the causes of death. I found M them as follows :— 9 Inflammation within the chest, &c 10 cases. Suppuration of the Sac 6 ,, 9 Suppurative phlebitis 1 » 9 Hgemorrhage 3 „ 9 Gangrene of hand and arm 1 9 Gangrene of both arms and legs 1 v fl Not stated 3 „ fl Thus it AAdll be seen that the ttvo most frequent causes of a fatal result following the operation for axillary aneurism, are not those that are usually j|fi met with after the ligature of the larger vessels. It Avould therefore appear to |li be owing to some special condition, dependent either upon the application of a jfj ligature to the subclavian artery in the third part of its coiu'se, or upon the jfj situation and nature of the disease for which that operation is had recourse to ; d and the important point to be determined is, Avhether these conditions are a the accidental or the necessary consequences of the application of a ligature in jjj this situation for the cure of aneurism in the axilla. ,| Inflammatio7i of ihe Contents of the proved fatal in 10 out of 25 cases, 4 or 1 in 2’5, and is the most frequent cause of death, though not, I believe, the J most frequent untoward complication of this operation. It might at lii*st n be supposed that, in this respect, the operations on the subclaAuan artery M resembled other of the greater operations, after AA'hich pyiemic pneumonia is so common a sequela ; but, on closer examination, it Avill be Ibund that this is not n the case. Inflammation, Avhen attacking the thorax or its contents after 9 ti