io8o DISEASES OF THE URETHRA, spermatic cords beinp; lax aild elongated, with an apparent want of powci*, and often painful and dragging sensations about the cords and groins. Besides the strictly local complications of gonorrhoea, ceidain sequences, to which some constitutions are especially liable, occasibnally occur as the result of this disease ; viz., inflammation of the testes and of the eyes, and rheumatism. Some of these, as the affections of the eyes and testes, may be either local or constitutional: the others are clearly constitutional. The constitutional effects of gonorrhoea offer characters that have some analogy to those presented by the more chronic and subacute forms of pymmia. This is more especially the case in monarthritic inflammation of the knee or wrist, leading to disorganization or permanent ankylosis of these joints. Gonorrhoeal Epididymitis is certainly the most common of these sequences. It ahnost invariably affects only one testis, and commences in the epididymis, whence it extends to the body of the organ. It usually occurs in indi\nduals Avho have a lax and long scrotum, with very pendulous testes. It seldom sets in before the third week after the occurrence of gonorrhoea, but may occur at any period during the continuance of the discharge, though it is more fi’equent between the fifth and sixth weeks than at any other time. In cases of gleet, also, it not uncommonly occurs at a later period. In many instances it is referred to some shght injury—a blow, or squeeze, received dining the con- tinuance of the gonorrhoea ; but in some cases it would appear to arise from extension of the infiainmation along the ejaculatory duct. It was formerly believed to arise in some cases from so-called metastasis of inflammation from the urethra to the testis. That the disease commences in the epididymis, may be advanced in support of the first opinion ; whilst the fact that the discharge usually ceases when the infiammation of the testicle comes on, and returns as it subsides, has been adduced in support of the doctrine of its metastatic origin. Curling is of opinion that the diminution of discharge is due to counter-irritation, as he has seen a case in which the lu’ethral discharge ceased, although the orchitis had been occasioned by a blow. As the symptoms and treatment of gonoiThoeal inflammation of the testicle present nothing peculiar, I shall reserve their consideration until we speak of diseases of this organ. Gonorrhoeal epididymitis is apt to be followed by long-con- tinued gleet, consequent on the exudation from the lining membranes of the vas deferens, and the secretory apparatus of the testes. Gonorrhoeal Inflammation of the Eyes is fortunately not of very common occiuTence. It may affect either the conjunctiva or the sclerotica. Gonorrhoeal Conjunctivitis is one of the most destructive forms of - ophthalmia, giving rise not unfr’equently, in the course of forty-eight hom’s, to the most intense chemosis, with opacity and softening of the cornea, followed by staphyloma and a discharge of the humoiu’s. In the majority of instances only one eye is affected ; but, in some, both are involved to an equal extent. The disease commences with the ordinary symptoms of conjunctival inflammation ; itching and swelling of the eyelids, velvety redness of the con- junctiva, muco-purulent discharge, with much lachrymation. The chemosis sets in early, and is very severe ; and, unless treatment afford speedy relief, the consequences are most disastrous to vision. Lawrence states that, of 14 cases that fell under his observation, 9 had only one eye affected and 5 both. Of the 9 in whom one eye only was diseased, the organ was lost in (> cases; of