1102 D IS EADSES OF THE URETHRA. 1. Tlie method of forcibly expanding a stricture by the introduction into it of a small two- or four-bladed instrument, fashioned somewhat like a narrow beaked sound, and which, by Screw-Aleclumism in the handle, admits of beiii</ opened out so as to stretch the stricture to an extent corresponding to the dis- tance at which the blades are screwed apart, has many advocates ; and various ingenious contrivances have been invented to effect this object. More than half a centmy ago, Luxmoor attempted it by the use of a four-bladed instrument. Subsequently, Civiale invented a stricture-expander ; and of late years two- bladed instruments, having this end in view, have been introduced into practicehy Fig. 929.—Thompson’s Strictm‘e-Exi)ancler. Perreve, Lyon, and Sir H. Thompson. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 929) is a representation of the instrument used by the latter Surgeon ; it answers admirably the intended purpose, the expansion of the blades being effected by a screw worked by turning the handle. This should be done very slowly, several seconds being allow^ed to elapse between each turn of the handle, so ’ that the tissue composing the stricture may be gradually stretched, and the canal of the urethra at the seat of stricture dilated beyond the full size, so as to be over-stretched ; the extent of dilatation may be carried up to 16 or 18, and is marked on a scale attached to the handle of the instrument. If this operation be done slowly, little if any bleeding results, and there is no evidence of deep laceration of the wall of the urethra at the strictm’ed spot. A large gum- elastic catheter may then be passed, and the mdue drawn off. It is not usually necessary to leave the catheter in the bladder, though there can be no objection to doing this for forty-eight hours, after which the patient may have one passed occasionally in order to maintain the dilatation. c. The rupture or splitting of the stricture by an instrument acting on the principle of a Wedge, has been recommended by Reybard, adopted by Holt, and very extensively employed by the latter excellent Surgeon. The instru- Fig. 930.—Holt’s Instrument for Splitting Strictures. ment used by him is represented in the accompanying figure (Fig. 9;Ju). It consists of two grooved metallic blades joined at the extremity. Between these a tube is slipped along a wire, Avhich in its descent separates the blades at a considerable angle, and thus splits up the stricture. In this ivay the contracted part of the urethra is at once enlarged to its normal diameter, so as to admit a full-sized catheter, by wliich the urine is tlien drawn off. The introduction of the catheter should be had recourse to at first on alternate days, and afterwards at longer intervals. Holt believes that the effects of the dilatation are entirely confined to the morbid contraction, the healthy portion 1 1