740 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. To the first ([uestion, it is not easy to give a very definite rc])ly. The older statistics upon this point are hut of little value, for the followino- reasons : 1st, that it is only comparatively recently that it, has l)ecome possible clearly to distinguish, even after removal the various forms of sarcoma and of inflammatory induration from cancer ; and 2nd, that until even a more recent period most Surgeons have contented themselves with removal of the diseased mamma, leaving the axillary glands untouched, unless they were obviously affected. We may therefore put on one side the statistics of Hill, Avho states that out of 88 cases, there were only 10 relapses and 2 deaths in those operated on by him at least two years before ; of Alexander l\Ionro, who saw no recurrence in 4 out of GO ; of Boyer, who saved 1 in 25 ; of Macfarlane, who saved none ; of Warren, who saved 1 in 3 ; and Cooper, 1 in 4. Since the introduction of anaesthetics, and more especially since the recent improvement in the treatment of wounds, the more extensi^'e removal of the affected parts has been largely practised by Lister, Banks, Billroth, Kuster. Volkmann, and many others. These Surgeons advocate the removal of the entire mamma, with as much of the skin covering it as can convenientlv be taken away, together with the axillary glands, even when these are not obviously affected. The results obtained so far by this treatment have been most encouraging. Thus Banks has published the records of 40 cases, ten of whom were alive and free from recurrence at periods varying from two to ten years after the operation, and in five more no recuiTence had taken place from one to two years after the operation. Kuster states, that in 26 per cent, of the patients operated on by him, no recurrence had taken place three years after the removal of the breast. Billroth states that he had under obser- vation lo cases, in which no recurrence had taken place within two years of the operation, 5 of which had remained free for four years and upwards, and 4 more for more than three years. In almost all of these the axillary glands had been removed either at the same time as the mamma or in a subsequent operation. These extensive operations under the modern system of treating wounds heal frequently without suppuration. Some stiffness of the arm ]3reventing movements above the level of the shoulder is usually left, but this is of small moment if a greater chance of life is given. The inference fairly deducible from these cases is that in a certain proportion of cases cancer has been effectually removed by extirpation of the breast, and that the proportion of these cases in the practice of any particular Surgeon is directly proportioned to the freedom with which he removes the diseased structures. 2. As to the second question—whether as a general rule life may not be prolonged by the performance of the oj)eration,—we are confronted with the same fallacy in all the older statistics. Leroy D’fitiolles, Walshe, Cooper, and Brodie, were all of the opinion that life was little if at all prolonged by operation; and although Velpeau, Callaway, Brodie, and other Surgeons recorded cases in which the patient had lived many years after the operation, most of them were probably cases of sarcoma. The most trustworthy statistics that we possess on the relative duration of life in cases of cancer of the breast, with or without operation, are thorf collected by Sir James Paget, Morrant Baker, and Sibley ; but even these probably include some cases of sarcoma under the name of eucephaloid cancel. Paget states that, of 113 cases, 60 were not submitted to operation ; of thCfO I • 1 ■ ( ■ }