WOOD'S OPERATION FOR RADICAL CURE. 767 ffSi;cver seen the slij^htesb evidence ot‘ a dis{)osition to peritoneal inflammation :rr other local mischief, except abrasion of the skin in one or two cases. A\ ith vespoct to the second objection, there can be no doubt that failures are not i:nfreqncnt; but on the other hand successes are not rare, andjl have now Mi nder observation several cases in which a complete cure has resulted, although fi'reveral yeai’s, from two to nine, have elapsed since the operation. It is now ^vcarcely ever practised, being replaced by AVood’s operation or some of the ^ arious plans of closing the ring by sutures. Wood’s Operation.—In order to secure the more complete obliteration of (le canal, and especially the cohesion of the inner and posterior walls, John M'ood has brought forward another operation, for the following description f which I am indebted to him. The principle of this method consists in iUie approximation of the tendinous structures forming the boundary of the . ernial canal, by the application of a subcutaneous wire suture through a |•uncture in tlie skin. In applying this principle to inguinal hernia, in order promote the adhesion of the tendinous surfaces, and to protect the sac and (); jrd from injurious violence, the highly vascular, elastic, and tough fascia of |||(ie scrotum is detached subcutaneously from the skin, transplanted by invagi- inhn Mio pnnn.l pTirl IipIH hlim’P hv snf.nrps fiill adlipsinn piisnps t.n le walls of the canal and to the spermatic cord. The wire is so applied as tl |i ) obtain a fair hold in two places upon the structures forming the posterior , |l all, viz., the conjoined tendon and the triangular aponeurosis; and again 1 i:: pon Poupart’s ligament and the lower portion of the external oblique aponeu- i osis forming the anterior wall of the canal. The effect of the suture is to n) .ose also the external abdominal ring, the pillars of which are included in i|'S grasp. By the close adhesion which is thus produced between the ».|o8terior and anterior walls of the canal, the former is made to act like the sijtimb of a valve in preventing the descent of a hernia into the canal. Thus >1 permanent resistance to the reproduction of the rupture is jorovided, ■ Ihicli remains even after the temporarily effused IjTiiph has been re-absorbed, 'he impulsive force of the abdominal contents tending to protrude at the itemal ring, is resisted by the valve-like action of the posterior wall, and not able to exert itself upon the recently formed adhesions. The use of le truss, except as a temporary adjunct in the cure, is rendered unnecessary y this operation. Operation.—The patient being laid on his back, with the shoulders well ,.ised, and the pubes and scrotum shaved, the hernia must be reduced and eld up by an assistant pressing upon the internal opening. The operator, anding at that side of the patient which is about to be operated on, makes, ith a .small tenotomy-knife, an incision about three-fourths of an inch long irough the skin of the scrotum over the loAver part of the tumour; or, if this i large, about two and a half inches below the pubic spine. Then the knife, eing inserted flatwise between the skin and the fascia, is made to separate •lem around tlie incision over an area of about a two-inch circle; a pro- ■efling which the loose attachment of the skin easily allows. The knees of le patient should next be drawn up towards the abdomen, and held together » as to relax the structures connected with Touparl’s ligament. The forc- uger is next passed through the opening in the skin, and made to invaginate le detached fascia through the external ring into the canal, which is best one by using the right hand for the right side, and vice versa, keeping the 1