842 INTESTINAL OLSTR UCTION. absolutely impossible to determine with certainty whether it arise from mechanical causes or not ; and by the fact that apparently desperate cases occasionally recover without operation. If, however, by attention to any of the points that have been pretty fully adverted to, it can be satisfactorily made out that there is an internal strangulation, and more especially if the intumescence occasioned by it can be felt, it will evidently be the duty of the Surgeon to give the patient his only chance by the division of the stricture. With regard to the time at which this should be done, the only general rule that can be laid' down is probably the conclusion arrived at by B. Phillips ; that operation is justifiable when three or four days have passed without any relief jrom ordinary means, constipation being complete, and vomiting of fmcal matters continuing. The details of the operation will be described on a subsequent page. Treatment of Intussusception.—There can be little doubt that spon- taneous disentanglement occurs in many of the slighter cases of intussusception. In others Inflation of the Obstructed Intestine by the injection of air into the rectum has been recommended, and has occasionally been practised with success. In two instances I have successfully had recourse to it. One was the case of an infant, a few months old, seized with symptoms of intus- susception, whom I attended with Cousins. The other patient was a young lady about ten years of age, to whom I was called into consultation with Sir T. Watson, Dr. Murphy, and Dr. West; inflation was performed on the fifth day after the setting in of symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, apparently dependent on intussusception. The iDroceeding was followed by perfect success : the child felt “ as if a bone broke ” in the abdomen, the obstruction was removed, and motions followed in three hom's, though all the previous treatment had been unavailing. For the convenient performance of this operation, I have had an apparatus constructed, consisting of a circular double- action bellows, with a long vulcanized India-rubber tube, furnished with a stop-cock and rectum-tubes of different sizes for children and adults. Should this not be at hand, a well-fitted stomach-pmnp will answer the purpose. In performing this operation too much force must not be used, as serious injury to the intestine has been known to result. This treatment camiot be expected to succeed in any case of intussusception except that of the large intestine ; even if it be at the ileo-csecal valve little good usually results from it. Operation for Intussusception.—If this treatment has failed, the only chance of recovery without operation lies in the sloughing away of the invaginated portion of gut. And what is this chance by natural care ? The answer given by statistics is as follows :—J. L. Smith, of New York, collected the details of 50 cases ; of these 7 recovered. Haven, of Boston, found that of 59 cases, there were 10 ; and Duchaussoy, that out of 135 cases, there were 29 recoveries. The chance of life by natural means, therefore, is about 18 per cent., or rather more than one in five—not a very hopeful one, truly. In these circumstances. Surgeons have naturally looked to gastrotomy, and the manual disentanglement of the invaginated gut, as offering a better prosjDect of life. And this operation has undoubtedly in many cases been followed by recovery, since, under the directions of Nuck, the first well-authenticated successful operation of this kind was performed. Ashhumt has collected the particulars of 13 cases in which abdominal section was performed for intussusception. Of these, five succeeded; and more recently the operation has been successfully