OPERATION FOR URINARY VAGINAL FISTULIE. 1127 and lateral vaginal walls by means of the duck-bill speculum, when the opening will be fairly brought into view. "When the fistula is larger, and especially when vesical, its cure can be accom- plished only by paring the edges, and bringing them together with sutures, and thus attempting to procure union by the fii’st intention. In effecting this, however, two difficulties present themselves—the sutures either cutting their way out too soon, or the trickling of urine between the freshly pared edges interfering with adhesion. In order to overcome these difficulties, a variety of ingenious contrivances have been introduced by different Surgeons ; amongst which may be especially mentioned the clamps of Mailon Sims and Baker Brown, and the button-suture of Bozeman. To Sims especially is due the great merit of having substituted silver wires for silk sutures in this operation, by which the probabilities of a successful result have been very greatly increased. Before the operation, the bowels should have been freely opened by castor-oil and an enema. It w’as formerly recommended that no anesthetic should be given, as its administration makes it difficult to place the patient in the most convenient position, on the knees and elbows, with the buttocks well raised and the head low. As, however, the operation is tedious and painful it is better to give an anmsthetic, and no difficulty will be found in performing the operation with the patient lying on her back in the lithotomy position if the pelvis be well raised on a pillow. It is of great moment that the parts should be freely exposed. This is best done Iby means of the “duck-billed” speculum (Fig. 942), by which the posterior wall of the vagina is well drawn up and out of the way of the operator, and light is reflected on the fistulous opening. The edges of the aperture are now to be freely pared. This is best done by seizing them with. a hook-forceps or a double hook, and dissecting off the vaginal mucous membrane to the extent of about a quarter of an Fig. 942.—Duck-billed Speculum. Figs. 943 and 944.—Angularly Curved Knive.s. inch all round, by means of a fine small scalpel or angularly set knives (Figs. 943, 944) and scissors properly curved. The dissection should be carried towards the fissure, and especial care taken that the angles are well cleared of mucous membrane. After the edges of the fistula have heen freely pared, and all bridles or cica- tricial constrictions divided, sutures of silver are passed across the lips of the wound. 'Fhese wires may most conveniently be passed by means of the hollow needle (Fig. 945); or, if this be not at hand, a silk thread may be passed by