III5 TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE. about two ounces of starch, and to put him into a warm hip-bath ; the intro- duction of the catheter may now be attempted, and Avill very generally succeed. Should it still fail, the etfect of an anaesthetic should be tried, when it almost invariably may be made to pass without the employment of any great or dangerous degree of force. There are no cases in surgery in which anaesthesia is of more value than in these ; under its influence it is seldom, indeed, that the catheter will not pass. After the instrument has been passed into the bladder it should be left there, being tied in by means of tapes passing from its rings under the patient’s thighs, to a bandage that is passed round his waist. A free piu’ge may be administered on the following day, and the patient should be confined to bed. The catheter will be found to be loosened at the end of forty-eight hoiu’S, when it should be withdrawn, and the cure by dilatation proceeded with in the usual way. There are two conditions which in retention of urine may eventually call for operative interference. The first is the necessity for very frequent intro- duction of the catheter, owing to an irritable state of the bladder. In these cases, it may eventually be thought safer to puncture the bladder and to establish a direct opening, either through the rectum or above the pubes, rather than subject the patient to the constant terror of repeated catheterism, which will end by exliausting him. Every act of catheterism inflicts a certain shock to the system, greater in some, less in others ; and if this have to be repeated every three or four hours, less danger will probably result from punc- ture of the bladder than fi’om the frequent use of the instrument. In these cases the patient cannot allow it to be tied in for the same reason, that of extreme initability, that necessitates its repeated introduction. The second condition that calls for operation is a diflerent one, viz., the necessity of relieving retention of urine. For if the Surgeon be unable to introduce a catheter in the ordinary way through the stricture, relief must be given to the over-distended bladder in some other way, lest it or the urethra burst, and extravasation of urine occur. The bladder may be emj)tied in five ways : 1, by Forcible Catheterism ; 2, by making an Opening into the Urethra behind and through the Stricture ; 3, by Puncturing the Viscus itself through the Eectum ; 4, by Puncturing it above the Pubes, and 5, by Aspiration. 1. Forcible Catheterism is a most unsurgical and dangerous procedure. Nothing can surely be more improper than to take a small, stiff, silver catheter, pass it down to the stricture, and then, by main force, attempt to drive it on into the bladder. In these cases the Surgeon usually fails in his attempt at reaching the viscus, but pushes the point of the instrument into the tissues around the neck of the bladder or into the ju'ostate, and thus induces great, and perhaps even fatal, mischief in these regions. If he should, by some fortunate accident, reach the bladder, it is not by any skilful though forcible expansion of the stricture, but I’ather by perforating the urethra, and burrowing through the corj)US spongiosum and prostate—“ tunnelling,” ns it has been termed— until he again enter that canal, or in some such way reach the neck of the bladder. 2. Opening the Urethra behind and through the Stricture.—In the kind of retention of urine that Ave arc now discussing, the safest, though by no means the easiest mode of affording relief after the failure of the catheter, is to make an incision into the middle lino of the periiunum, and to