DISEASES OF THE URET LI HA. 1126 by means of a piece of boracic acid lint, which must be frequently wetted and changed. If the urine can be efficiently kept from the wound, a dry dressing of iodoform or salicylic wool will be found the best. Stricture of the Female Urethra is rare. When it occurs, it is seated at the external orifice, Avhich will be found to be narroAved and sharp-edged. The disease is usually the result of gonorrhoea, but may be caused by a chancre at the orifice. The symptoms are the ordinary one of imtability of the bladder, frequent desire to micturate, and some difficulty or delay in doing so. The Treatment consists in the dilatation of the orifice by means of a tAvo- bladed dilator. URINABY VAGINAL RISTUL.SE. Pi’Eeternatural communications between the urinary passages and the vagina commonly arise from injurious pressure upon and consequent sloughing of the anterior Avail of this canal, to a greater or less extent, during parturition. They may, however, occur from idiopathic abscess, or from malignant disease involving those parts. Varieties.—Urinary vaginal fistulie are essentially of two kinds, according i as the communication is established between the urethra or the fundus of the bladder and the vagina. Hence they may be divided into Urethral and Vesical. Urethro-Vaginal Fistulae are, so far as my observation goes, of most common occurrence ; and this is readily explained by the fact that the urethra lies betAveen the vagina and pubes and is therefore exposed to the most severe pressure. These fistuke are usually of small size and linear. Vesico-Vaginal Fistnlae establish a communication between the neck or fundus of the bladder and the vagina. They are consequently situated further back than the other, i • and are usually larger and more ragged. ; : Results.—The existence of a urinary fistula in the vagina is always a v source of the greatest discomfort and distress to the patient. The dribbling of i j urine through the praeternatural aperture is generally continuous ; although, i j if this be situated far back it may be somewhat intermittent, a floAV taking i place as the loAver portion of the bladder fills. The incontinence of urine I thus produced gives rise to irritation and excoriation about the external | parts, and occasions a strong ammoniacal odour to hang about the patient. f The precise seat and extent of the fistulous opening may be ascertained by ' placing the patient on her knees opposite a good light, and holding aside the posterior and lateral Avails of the vagina Avith bent spatulai ; Avhen the anterior aspect of that canal Avill have a tendency to protrude, and thus to expose the fistula, at the same that the introduction of a bent probe, or of a female catheter, into the urethra, Avill guide the Surgeon to the artificial opening in the urinary passage. By means of the duck-bill speculum (Fig. 042), the fistula can be brought into A’ieAV equally AV'ell if the jiatient be placed in the lithotomy position. dhiEATMENT.—Wlicn thc apcrtui’c is small, about a line or tAvo in diameter, f and more especially if urethral, its closure may best be effected by touching ^ the edges of the aperture with thc galvanic cautery or a red-hot Avire, and re- peating this application once a fortnight or three weeks, until a cure is effected by their gradual contraction. This little ojicration is most conA'cnicntly effected by placing the patient in a kneeling posture, and then holding aside the posterior