URETHRA L FE VER—TREA TMENT. 915 the absence of spots, and the temperature will usually serve to distinguish them. In the case above mentioned, the temperature was below normal for three weeks before death. From ague, the disease is diagnosed by the absence of the complete intermission after the sweating stage ; but it must be always remembered that patients Avho have suffered from ague are singularly liable to attacks of fever after any operation on the urinary organs. Urethral Fever or Uraemic Fever.—This term has been somewhat loosely used to signify a rigor followed by sweating, and more or less prolonged elevation of temperature, consequent on some operation on the urinary organs, or possibly arising spontaneously. It will be seen at once that this definition includes acute interstitial nephritis, as above described, and also pyaemia. When a patient has been said to have died of “ urethral fever,” one of these two conditions has been invariably found, although no Surgeon would inten- tionally include pyaemia under urethral fever. It is probable that the real nature of the affection is, at least in the great majority of cases, a disturbance of the circulation in the kidney, or some interference with its function, due to .rreflex in-itation from the passage of the instrument, as before described in speaking of the sources of irritation to the kidney. That it is not due to .absorption of urine from a wound in the urinary passages, is evident from the ffact that rigors are rare after lithotomy, and are not a marked symptom of Bxtravasation of nrine, and that wounds of the urethra anterior to the scrotum jcarcely ever give rise to them. This view of the renal origin of so-called . irethral fever is supported by Malherbe, in his treatise on Uraemic Fever, as he i.vould call it. It is difficult to obtain direct proof, but fiu'ther knowledge night be gained by carefully examining hour by hour the quantity and [uality of the urine secreted after any urethral or vesical operation, and at ■he same time accurately observing the changes in temperature, even when the ■igor does not occur. Malherbe states that the temperature rises in almost ■■very case ; and in one of the four cases of stricture mentioned before, the t emperature rose to 100'3° F. about three hours after the operation, when the :mne became bloody. It fell to 99'2° F. when the blood disappeared ; but rhree hours afterwards a little more blood showed itself, and the temperature ::gain rose to 100'3° F. Prognosis.—The prognosis in acute affections of the kidney, secondary to liladder disease, is always grave ; but even the most unpromising cases may i-ecover. Vomiting, delirium, partial insensibility, and a very dry tongue, are i 11 bad signs. A marked diminution of the quantity, and much blood in the rrine, are unfavourable symptoms. Treatment.—Prevention is of course first to be aimed at. No patient . lould therefore be submitted to an operation on the urinary organs except i cases of necessity, without a careful examination of the whole day’s mine 4 to specific gravity, the presence and quantity of albumen, and the micro- ropic appearances. If possible, the temperature should be observed night nd morning for two or three days. If any suspicion arise as to the condition ’ the kidneys, that operation should be selected, when practicable, which 'ives rise to least irritation. Soft instruments should be employed instead of etal, and a sufficient interval allowed between their use. Above all, any eatment calculated to cause cystitis, or to give rise to decomposition of the Inne, should be avoided. As there can be no doubt that the causes of icomposition are often introduced into the bladder by catheters or other