82 IIjEMORRIIA GIC LI A THESIS. the hfemorrhagc ooao-ulated healthily and was of good colour, though after great loss the tint became paler and the coagulum less firm. Accurate analyses of the blood from bleeders are still wanting. It has been suggested as another explanation of the disease that its real cause is an excess of blood, blit of this also there is no definite evidence. It would appear then that the only facts of importance that we at present possess to throw light on the cause of haemophilia are, that it is hereditary; that it is far more frequent in males than in females; and that it is congenital, and may occur in all races and in all countries. Treatment.—In true haemophilia no remedies appear to exercise the slightest influence over the diathesis. At the same time, it would be wise that the subject of this unfortunate condition should attend to those ordinar)- rules of health, the neglect of which, by lowering “ his condition,” might favour the tendency to bleed. Legg especially recommends the use of cold baths of plain, sea, or chalybeate waters, residence in a dry air, and the use of warm clothing. The preparations of iron are usually given in a routine way, but it is doubtful if they have ever been of service in preventing the hsemorrhages, certainly never in an’esting them, though they may lie of use in removing the anaemic state left after a copious bleeding. Ergot has been given during the bleeding in many cases but without evident effect. The Local Treatment is that on which most dependence will necessarily be placed. It consists in the use of three means—viz.. Pressure, StN-ptics, and Cold. Pressure is to be relied on only in one form of hmmophilic bleeding—\*iz., the continuous haemorrhage from the socket of a tooth after extraction. In these cases the cavity should be cleared out and carefully plugged from the! ; bottom by means of lint or agaric, the whole retained by means of a piece of! cork and a gutta-percha cap to fit over the neighbouring teeth, and compressed 1 by a bandage applied under the chin against those in the sound jaw. IMieui the haemorrhage occurs from the soft parts, pressure must be used with great f caution lest sloughing occur ; the integuments being extremely liable to givei ; way extensively under very moderate pressure, large subcutaneous extravasa-i tion developing at the same time, and thus increasing materially the danger ofj the case and the local mischief. ( Compression of the main artery of the limb is useless and liable to the| objection of the development of ecchymoses and subcutaneous haemorrhages. . I Styptics of all kinds have been used as a matter of course, and the per- I chloride of iron has enjoyed especial favour. I have used and seen it used I frequently, and can safely say that I have never seen any permanent benefit I from its application, or that of any other st}qitic, in these cases. Indeedj I great evil has often resulted from the inflammation excited by the application! I of styptics of any kind. The parts become swollen, fall into slough, and sn |i they sepai’ate the oozing may recommence from the raw surfiice, and the saint I process has to be gone through again. I The actual Cautery presents the same inconveniences as ordinary styptics m It may arrest temporarily the bleeding, but inflammation is set up in the part: ! beyond the limit of the eschar, and this on separating leaves an extendet I) ulcerating surface which bleeds again, and perhaps more freely than bcfoi’c. fl. The continued application of Cold appears to arrest haemophilic bleediuj ■; more effectually than any other means, and this circumstance would load tci;