CHRONIC ARTHRITIC—PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES. 343 tilt 'He. 1 • aiii ’K fc.!| d \ 7 ll'l ff or the bone. In tlie later stages, after perforation of the cartilage, both surfaces may be similarly affected. After suppuration has taken place, necrosis of cartilage with disintegi'ation (p. 330) also may be met with. The bones present the appearances already described as being met with in fungating caries (p. 283). The chief interest attaches, however, to the microscopical appearances of the pulpy granulation-tissue which has replaced the synovial membrane and fills the cavity of the joint. The structure of this tissue has been made the subject of investigation by Koster, Konig, Yolkmann, and Hueter, among others in Germany, and by Croft and Greenfield in this country, and all are substantially in agreement as to its nature. The chief bulk of the tissue is made up of small round cells, united by a structureless intercellular substance and abundantly supplied with vessels ; in other words, of ordinary granulation-tissue. Scattered through this are numerous tubercle nodules, differing in no respect from those met with in other structures (Vol. I., p. 1050). In other parts the granulation tissue has undergone fatty degeneration and become reduced to a structureless gTanular mass. Croft and Greenfield pointed out that most commonly the diseased tissue may be divided into three layers, which merge into each other : first, the layer nearest the source of vascular supply (the bones or capsule of the joint), composed of ordinary granulation-tissue ; secondly, a layer containing numerous giant cells, sur- rounded by “ epitheloid-cells ” and lymphoid corpuscles, arranged in the way ordinarily observed in nodules of tubercle, and forming non-vascular areas in the surrounding vascular granulation-tissue ; and, thirdly, the layer most distant from the base of vascular supply, in which fatty degeneration is taking place, and all definite structure is lost. The tubercle-nodules ai'e not absolutely limited to the middle layer; a few may be found in the first layer in the swollen ligaments and the medullary tissue of the diseased cancellous tissue. The presence of this structm-e is so constant that it may be regarded as characteristic of true white swelling or strumous arthritis. In 72 cases examined by Konig it was found in G7, and in the remaining five the material for examination was deficient, so that no conclusion could be amved at as to its presence. Croft and Greenfield and other observers agree as to the constancy of the presence of tubercle. The number of giant cells varies in different cases, but they are always present. Since the discovery of the tubercle bacillus by Koch, the presence of this organism in the pulpy tissue of white swelling has been freciuently demonstrated. Further proof of the tubercular nature of the disease has been obtained by Hueter and others from inoculation experiments carried out on animals. The statistics of white swelling show, moreover, that in a very large proportion of fatal cases death takes place from general tuber- culosis. Albrecht has lately published some statistics, in which it is shown that, out of 135 fatal cases, in 04 death occurred from tuberculosis. At the present time, therefore, it may bo said that the evidence of the tubercular nature of white swelling is almost conclusive ; but it has not been determined certainly whether the development of tubercle is the primary change in the disease, or whether a chronic inflammation of a simple character precedes the appearance of the tubercle, the inflammatory products forming a suitable nidus for its development. Treatmp:.vt.—In the treatment of whiteswelling, wo must bear in mind that we have to manage a truly scrofulous inflammation and its eflects. Our fii-st object should be to prevent, if possible, the occurrence of suppuration. In