9i8 SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. CHAPTER LXVII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. Until within the last fifteen years, although some doubtful cases of removal of renal calculi by operation had been recorded, but few affections of the kidney were considered within the reach of surgical interference. Renal abscesses, when distinctly pointing in the loin wore opened, and calculi had been in exceptional cases discharged from the opening then made ; but until Simon of Heidelberg, in 1869, successfully removed the kidney, no definite operations were systematically undertaken on that organ. At the present time the following distinct operations are performed on the kidney. 1. Exploration by acupuncture. 2. Aspiration. 3. Nephrotomy, or incision of the kidney. 4. Nephro-lithotomy, or removal of a stone from an otherwise healthy kidney. 5. Nephrectomy, or comjilete removal of the kidney. 6. Nephroraphy, or fixing a movable kidney in the loin. The various morbid conditions for which these operations are required are fully described in works on medicine ; and it is impossible to give here more than the briefest possible summary of the chief symptoms of each, indicating at the same time the operation required for its relief. Stone in the Kidney.—Deposits of uric acid and oxalate of lime frequently take place in the kidney. In the great majority of cases the calculous matter passes down into the bladder, either in fine particles, when it is commonly spoken of as gravel, or in larger masses, when it is termed a renal calculus. The passage of any mass of snificient size to offer resistance on its way down is accompanied by the symptoms of renal colic. There is intense agonizing pain shooting from the loin downwards to the groin, and usually into the spermatic cord and testicle of the same side. In many cases it radiates into the inner side of the upper part of the thigh of the same side. There is retraction of the testicle, and sometimes much nausea or actual vomiting and faintness. As the stone enters the bladder the patient experiences sudden relief. The stone may be passed by the urethra, often with considerable pain and irritation, or may lodge and form a vesical calculus. In many cases, perhaps, after many stones have been passed at different times,.one lodges permanently in the kidney, and then gives rise to the S}Tuptoms of stone in the kidney. A renal calculus may form in one calyx, and be permanently fixed there, or it may be situated in the pelvis and send branching processes into the surrounding calyces. The symptoms of renal calculus are the follow- ing. There is pain usually referred to the loin, but occasionally radiating downwards in the line of the ureter or to the testicle. The pain is sickening in character and variable in intensity. It is in most cases distinctly aggravated by movement. In some cases walking gives most uneasiness, apparently from the movement of the muscles upon which the kidney lies. In other cases walking causes but little pain, while jolting of any kind causes intense suffer-