OPERATIONS FOR OSSEOUS ANKYLOSIS 521 OF KNEE. meiit must now be worked in such a manner as to break down the osseous adhesions between the femur and the tibia on the one hand, and the patella on the other. The patella is sometimes best loosened by using the drill as a lever. AVhen the bones ha^•e been sufficiently perforated in different direc- tions, the limb must be extended, when the remaining- osseous connections will give way with a cracking noise. The wound in the integument is then closed with silver sutures and collodion, and the limb laid on a pillow. In three or four days it may be put in a McIntyre splint, and gradual extension practised, the soft parts posteriorly slowly yielding. Bony union will then take place ; but it is a decided advantage when the limb is stiff for the knee not to be (]uite straight, but slightly flexed, so that the leg may be about an inch shorter than the opposite limb. This operation, it will be seen, is in many respects superior to those of Banon and Buck ; for whilst bringing the limb into an equally good position, it does so by a comparatively slight and subcutaneous procedure, unattended by any danger of luemorrhage or of complications arising from an extensive 0]xm wound. The nine cases in which it has been done were all successful. These various perforating operations appear hitherto to have been confined to the knee-joint. But there can be little doubt that they might advantageously be extended to other joints affected by osseous ankylosis, more particularly in the hip. In angular contraction of the knee-joint with dislocation of the tibia backwards, Yolkmann has corrected the deformity, by cutting across the femur just above the condyles, and in one case by doing the same to the tibia just below its head. This he recommends to be done with a chisel, the wound being dressed antiseptically. Ankylosis of the knee in the straight gosilion interferes comparatively little with the utility of the limb. It is, however, desirable, when practicable, to restore the mobility of the joint. The possibility of doing this will depend on the degree of ankylosis. If this be osseous, or even if densely fibrous, little can be done ; but if the rigidity depend chiefly on condensation of the capsule, and fibroid induration outside the joint, much may be effected by the use of properly constructed apparatus. This should be of two kinds : 1. A leg-and-thigh piece securely laced on to the limb, having an angular joint opposite the knee, and connected posteriorly by a strong band of vulcanized India-rubber, the elastic tension of which is constantly striving to overcome the straightened limb by flexing it backwards ; and 2, a similar apparatus, with rack-and-pinion, instead of elastic, by which the knee can be forcibly flexed once at least in the day. Ankylosis of the knee in the angular g>osition forwards, so that the leg is over-extended upon the thigh, is very rare. Indeed, I am acquainted with only three preparations illustrating this deformity—one in the museum of Univer- sity College, one in that of »St. Thomas’s Hospital, and another exhibited by Adams to the Pathological Society, from a limb amputated by Grant of Canada, in wbich this condition occurred to a young man as a consequence of a wound of the joint some years previously. Deformities of the Bones of the Lower Limb from Rickets.—The distortions of the bones of the leg arising from i-ickets have already been alluded to in the chapter on diseases of bone. It is needless here to do more than mention that antiseptic osteotomy has been applied of late years with gi-eat success to the treatment of these deformities. It is seldom that