DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 6y6 that causes tlio pain and ditliciilty in swallowing. Numerous small ulcers then appear, first in the central parts, and subsequently extending to the ulcers gradually coalesce and extend, forming creniilatcd sores, destroying the vocal cords and neighbouring parts. There is seldom serious dyspnma, as the sores have no tendency to heal and contract. In the later stages, if the patient survive sufficiently long, necrosis of the cartilages may take place. The Dkujnosis is made by the presence of disease of the lungs, the peculiar swelling over the arytasnoid cartilages, by the multiplicity of the ulcei*s and their comparatively superficial character, and by the fact that tliey ajjpear first in the central parts of the larynx and spread towards the peripheral. The Treatment of this affection belongs rather to the physician than the Surgeon. Local treatment can at most give some slight relief. ^Mackenzie ■ recommends soothing inhalations, such as the compound tincture of benzoin, ■ or the insufflation of one-eighth of a grain of morphia diluted with starch, I twice a day. The dysi^noea is rarely such as to necessitate tracheotomy. If I the inability to swalloAV, partly from ]3ain and partly from the food finding it.s I Avay into the larynx, becomes such as to threaten death from starvation, the ■ patient may be fed without difficulty by an oesophageal tube. I Complications of Chronic Laryngitis.—In all cases of chronic laryii- I gitis there is a tendency to acute mflammation supervening on the chronic ■ disease. The affection may then prove fatal by the induction of oedema ■ glottidis, often coming on with great rapidity. Necrosis of the Cartilages ofW the Larynx is most commonly a complication of the more advanced stages ofB tubercular laryngitis, and less frequently of syphilitic disease. It has been ■ known in rare cases to follow typhoid fever, and still more rarely to occur B without any e^fident cause. It gives rise to copious expectoration of large If quantities of foetid iDuriform sputa, often streaked with blood, and occasionally |t containing masses of necrosed and usually calcifie'd cartilage. In many cases® abscesses form outside the tube, and after much initation and distress open If externally ; and not unfrequently they are met with to such an extent, as toB undermine and disorganize the greater portion of the tissues of the anteriorB part of the neck. Where they correspond to the necrosed patches of cartilage,® they give rise to aerial fistulm, through which bubbles of air escape duringB respiration. Tracheotomy is sometimes required in these cases. B In cases of long-standing and incurable laryngeal disease, either syphilitic or® tubercular, it has been y>roposed by Bryant to perform tracheotomy with theB view of giving the diseased organ rest, and thus giving time and opportunityB for the inflamed and ulcerated mucous membrane to heal; the oj^eration being®' performed here, not for the relief of laryngeal obstruction, or with the view ofB^ rescuing the patient from impending death from asphyxia, but with the objeetB- of aidino’ other curative means in an otherwise intractable disease. This®- o ^^® suggestion appears to be founded on sound pathological principles, and is o» peculiar importance when we consider that patients suffering from chronic®^ laryngeal disease arc never safe from the sudden supervention of oedema® glottidis. Whenever acute inflammation supervenes in these cases, with a®j tendency to oedema about the glottis, the patient should be narrowly watched,®? as he may readily be carried off" by the sudden swelling of the li]3s of the rimaBii or by the supervention of spasm. In cases of this kind, the air-^iassage ma\®ti