. SPECIAL IlERNLE. I 8o6 bunds thub lie near the riiiL*', and which are always iiiost mai-ked u])oii its ; outer side. Relations.—Tlie relations of the spermatic cord and. testes, and of the c])igastric artery, to an ing-uinal hernia, are of gTcat importance, Tlie sper- maiic cord will almost invariably he found to be situated beliind or rather nnderneatli the oblique inguinal hernia ; and the iestis will be found to lie at its lower and back part, where it may always be distinctly felt. In some cases the elements of the spemiatic cord become separated, the ^■as deferens lying on i one side, and the spermatic vessels on the other. In other rare cases, an j instance of which there is in a preparation in the University College l\Iuseuni, ^ the hernia lies behind the cord and has the testis in front. In other cases, again, it may happen that the elements of the cord are all separately spread | out on the forepart of the hernial tumour. The epigastric artery has the same » relations to the oblique inguinal hernia that it has to the spermatic cord, lying i to the inner side of and behind its neck. The pressure of large and old inguinal liernim has, however, a tendency to modify somewhat the relations of this vessel. By distending the rings, and dragging the posterior wall down- wards and inwards, they shorten the canal, and cause a great deflection of the artery from its natural course, which is changed from an oblique [ direction to one curved downwards and inwards, under the outer edge of the rectus muscle. Dieect I^tguixal Heenia.—This does not pass out like the oblique through ' ■ the internal abdominal ring, but pushes forwards through a triangular space, \ which is bounded by the epigastric artery on the outer side, the edge of the | rectus on the inner, and the crural arch at its base ; through this the hernial i tumour iDi-otrudes, pushing before it or rupturing the posterior wall of the ' inguinal canal. Coverings.—These vary according to the length of the canal that the hernia traverses, and the portion of the posterior wall through which it pro- trudes. In fact, there are at least two distinct forms of direct inguinal hernia, which differ according as they are situated internal or external to the ob- j liberated hypogastric artery. One, the most common variety, is situated j internal to the cord-like remains of this vessel, between it and the outer edge of the rectus. The other, which is of less frequent occuiTence, is situated outside this vessel, between it and the epigastric artery. In that form of direct inguinal hernia, which lies internal to the hypogastric artery, the protrusion takes place through that part of the posterior wall of the , inguinal canal which is situated ahnost behind and opposite to the exterual j ring. In this situation, the investments successively received by the hernia are, first, the peritoneum, the subperitoncal fat, and the fascia transversalis; jj it then comes into contact with the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, which it may either ruptm’e or push before it, .. thinned out and expanded. Most fr’equently these are ruptured, constituting j a partial investment to the protrusion, which is most evident on the inner- most part of the sac, that which is nearest the mesial line. As the hernia passes through the external abdominal ring, it receives from it tlie intercolumnar fascia and fibres, and lastly is invested by the common fascia and integuments. In the rare form of direct inguinal hernia which lies erternal to the hypogastric artoi’y, the protrusion may pass under the lower edge of the internal oblique .