RESULTS OF OSTEITIS OF CANCELLOUS TISSUE. 269 have been completely destroyed. This is common in the more acute forms. The imdestroyed osseous tissue in the affected area then perishes, and thus we get portions of necrosed cancellous bone of varying size surrounded by bone still being destroyed’by the rarefying process. This condition is termed necrotic caries or caries necrotica. (e.) The inflammatory products in the cancellous spaces frequently undergo fatty degeneration owing to the interference Avith their Avascular supply from pressure consequent upon the rigid nature of the surrounding structure. If this occurs after the complete destruction of the osseous cancelli, the caseating mass frequently softens, and a chronic abscess results. If it occurs before the bony tissue is completely absorbed, such portions as remain perish, and a sequestrum composed of cancellous tissue with its spaces filled by cheesy matter results. This forms another A'ariety of necrotic caries. (/.) Occasionally the inflammatory products calcify. This seldom occurs to any great extent, but in examining a bone which has been affected by very chronic inflammation of the spongy tissue it is not uncommon to find opaque white patches of extreme hardness, Avhich on careful examination can be seen to be composed of cancellous tissue, the spaces of which are filled Avith hard calcareous matters. {(}.') Lastly, rarefactive osteitis of the cancellous tissue may cease if the cause of the disease be removed, as AA^hen it is the result of friction of tAvo diseased surfaces against each other, or AA-hen it is taking place round an abscess, or the pus has been discharged. The granulation-tissue then becomes con- verted into bone by the same processes as have been described in treating of rarefactive osteitis of the compact tissue. The causes of rarefactive osteitis of the cancellous tissue are sometimes evident enough, as in the case of a wounded joint. In other cases they are very obscure. All forms of caries are common in scrofulous subjects, and it has at various times been asserted and denied that the process is very fi’equently the result of the deposit of tubercle in the cancellous tissue. Great attention has been paid to this subject of late years, and the conclusion most generally arriA'ed at is that those forms associated with chronic suppuration or with caseation of the products of the inflammatory process are almost always the result of tubercle. If a piece of a carious body of a A'^ertebra or of one of the short bones be properly softened and sections prepared for the microscope, the following appearances are often observed. The cancelli shoAV the irregular erosions (HoAvship’s lacunae) already described, containing the osteoclasts ; the cancellous spaces are enlarged by the destruction of the surrounding bony tissue and filled Avith vascular granulation-tissue ; but here and there Avill be found non-vascular areas containing in the centre a giant-cell Avith branching processes, surrounded by the large so-called epithelioid cells, and around these again are lymphoid cor])uscles, in fact a “ tubercle nodule or follicle.”' That this is, in many cases at any rate, true tubercle, and not merely an accidental modification of the chronic inflammatory products, has been proA’ed by the detection of the tubercle-bacillus in the nodule. The sIoav progressive infection of the neighbouring tissue, the caseation of the ]n’oducts of the process the softening Avith the formation of curdy pus, and the occasional recoA'ery by calcification, all agree with Avhat avc know of the mode of groAvth and progress of tubercle ; and altliough it is by no means proA’cd that all cases of canes not evidently arising from other causes are tubercular, there is uoav no