890 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. relief to the patient; but if a very large quantity be lost at one time, or if it continue for too long a period, it becomes a source of great debility ; more harm is usually done to the patient by its long continuance, than by its excessive quantity at any one time. The patient may become much debilitated and anmmic ; nervous headaches, pallor, })alpitations, and s^mcope may result. ' In some cases this discharge is of service, acting as a derivative, and prevent- ing disease from falling on more important parts ; it has especially l)eeii , looked upon as, and doubtless is in many cases, a safeguard fi’om apoplexy and ^ visceral congestions and obstructions, particularly when it occurs as a consequence of cirrhosis of the liver, or in plethoric and corpulent persons who habitually live too highly. In other cases it may be considered as , critical; especially when it occurs about the cessation of the menstrual ' period. But as a rule, the continued loss of blood from piles is undoubtedly injurious to the patient’s constitution. Htemorrhage from piles is sometimes vicarious with, and at other times arrests, the menstrual flow. In a case, which I attended with Garrod, the patient had sufiered from the hmmorrdoidal flux and piles from the age of puberty. She menstruated for the first time when thirty-seven years old; ■ up to that period the haemorrhoidal discharge had occurred abundantly at ! monthly intervals. After the late establishment of the menstrual function, i the piles continued to bleed, but less' regularly, and she became anaemic, j emaciated and debilitated to the last degree. When she was forty-four j years of age, I saAV her for the first time ; the piles, which were very large and vascular, Avere ligatured, and she made a most perfect recovery in general health. The colour of the blood is most generally florid, as if it came from the small arteries or capillaries of the part rather than from the veins. It Avould appear that, in consequence of the over-distended and varicose condition of : the veins of the part, the onward flow through the arteries and capillaries leading to them is obstructed ; and that, in consequence of the accumulated pressure on those vessels, their parietes give Avay, allowing the florid blood to escape from the arteries. Very commonly the internal piles, Avhen brought down, present a somewhat 1 granular surface, in consequence of ulceration having taken place, and the i Avhole surflice Avill be seen to exude blood in drops. In other instances, the j | blood appears to come from a cavity in one side of the hmmorrhoid, as if | 1 rupture had occurred from oA’er-distension at that part. The haemorrhoidal flux may be accompanied by, or alternate with, a thin | glairy mucous discharge from the rectum and diseased structm’es ; this Avould ' ^ appear to be nothing more than excessive secretion from the membrane, in | consequence of the irritation set up by the presence of the piles ; it is seldom in sufficient quantity to produce much annoyance, or to be of much moment: to the patient. CoMPLiCATioxs.—Piles are not uncommonly complicated Avith other disea^s of the rectum, such as fissures, fistula, or prolapsus. When connected Avith fissure, the hminorrhoid often, as Syme has remarked, assumes a peculiar forni i and appearance, presenting itself as a small red-coloured body, like a pea m I size, firm, and seated at the base of the fissure, which it often conceals ; to f i practised eye, hoAveA'er, the presence of a pile of this peculiar colour and shapt I is sufficient to indicate the existence of a fissure. I