Ayj{YLOi>I>S OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 471 osseous ; or the limb in cither of these cases may be straight, or more or less flexed on the abdomen or adducted. The most important point in all these cases is the direction of the limb. If that be straight, but little treatment is required, or indeed possible. When the head of the bone is completely ankylosed with the limb in this direction, the osseous structures of the head of the femur and of the acetabulum being fused together, absolutely nothing can be done to improve the patient’s condition. The lumbar spine Avill acquire increased mobility, especially in a rotatory direction, and the patient will stand and walk with ease. The chief difficulty arising from the position of the limb will occm* in mounting stairs and in sitting. If, however, the ankylosis be not complete, but fibrous, even though the limb be straight, the freedom of movement may be much increased, and any faulty direction as to abduction or adduction may be in a great measure remedied, by douches, friction, pressure, or even forcible movement, and occasionally by the subcutaneous section of tense bands of fascia, or of tendinous and muscular structures about the anterior superior spine of the ilium. If, unfortunately, the limb have become ankylosed in the flexed or angular position, means must be adopted to straighten it ; and this must be done whether the ankylosis be fibrous or osseous. For here the deformity and inutility of the limb are always considerable ; and increasingly so, the more the ankylosis approaches to a right angle. In rectangular ankylosis of the hip, the foot cannot be put to the ground ! 1 Fig. 694.—AnkylosiH after Hiiejoiiit DiHen.se : Flexion of Limb on Pelvis. Fig. 595.—Ankylosis after Hii>-joint Disease: Curvature of Spine ini>lacing P’oot on Gwuml. 80 long as the spine is straight (Fig. 504). In order that the toe should touch the ground, it Ixjcomes necessaiy that the body be bent forward ; and the lumbar spine will consequently be thrown into a very considerable arch with the convexity fonvards (Fig. u!)r)). The extent of the angular deformity in this kind of ankylosis can always be easily measured in the following way. If the patient be laid flat upon his back, so that the lumbar spine touclies the mattress on which he is lying, the