DISEASES OF TlfE MOUTH AND THROAT. 666 in two stages, and secondly l>y tlio use of antiseptics. The advantage of delaying the opening till tinn adhesions have formed is clearly shown by the statistics published by C. Tj. Vitringa, who has collected altogether the records of 155 cases of gastrostomy. From these be shows that Ijcfore the introduc- tion of antiseptic treatment 55 per cent, of the patients operated on died directly from the operation, but since that joeriod the death-rate has been reduced to 27 per cent. If the antiseptic cases are divided into those in which the opening was made into the stomach at the time of the operation and those in Avhich it was delayed till adhesions had formed, we find the death-rate was 58 per cent, in the former and only 17*5 per cent, in the latter. In many cases, although the patient does not die directly from the operation, life is but little prolonged by it, as the stomach seems unable to resume its functions. This most commoidy has happened in cases of malignant stricture, in AAdiich the operation has been deferred till the patient is in the last stage of exhaustion. In all cases of malignant stricture the most that can be obtained by gastrostomy is the prolongation of a precarious existence which must in a few weeks or months be cut short by the unchecked progress of the disease. In such cases the advantages and the dangers of the operation should be laid fairly before the patient, but it is not the duty of the Surgeon to urge him to submit to it. There is, however, one class of oesophageal strictures which are of the most obstinate character, and rapidly fatal by simple occlusion of the tube, without any tendency to malignancy. These are the constrictions that result from the swalloAving of corrosive liquids, Avhether acid or alkaline. In such cases as these, in which speedy death by staiwation is inevitable, I think the Surgeon is justified in advising the operation. In a case of this kind operated on by Trendelenburg, the patient was alive and well many years after the operation. He took food by masticating it thoroughly and then bloAving it from his mouth into the stomach through a tube fitted to the cannula. In many cases a good deal of trouble has been occasioned after the operation by the escape of gastric juice from the fistula. This causes great irritation of the surrounding skin apparently by a process of digestion. It is best avoided by not making a larger opening than is absolutely necessary. In the vertical incision adopted by Howse the sphincter-like action of the fibres of the rectus tends in great measure to preA^ent this complication. Should the skin become sore it may be relieved by being washed with an alkaline solution and protected by vaseline. DISEASES OF THE LABYNX. The larynx may be the seat of a great variety of morbid conditions. Acute, oedematous, and follicular inflammation ; ulcerations and chronic thickenings of the mucous membrane ; inflammation and necrosis of its cartilages ; and the formation of tumours or polypoid growths in its interior, may all occur. Lakyngoscope.—It is of the utmost importance in the diagnosis, and for the proj)er treatment of these affections, that a AueAV should be obtained of the parts that are the seat of disease. This can be done only by means of the Iiaryugoscope. The introduction of this instrument into practice and its perfection have been a Avork of time. It appears to haA'c been iiwented and first used in 1820, by Babington, i 1 1, h '.I ’i i 1 i 1' *' \ fi