45 LYMPUADENITIS—PATIIOLOGICAL ANATOMY. In the majority of cases there is no difficulty in discovering the source of the irritation which has caused the glands to inflame. In scrofulous subjects, however, the effect may be produced by causes so comparatively slight that their detection becomes proportionally difficult. In some cases it appears to arise simplv in consequence of a strain, as in over-walking. In childi’cn, the glands are more prone to suppurate from slight sources of irritation during convalescence from measles or some other acute spcoific disease. Pathological Anatomy.—Inflammation of the lymphatic glands may be acute, sub-acute, or chronic. In the acute form the gland is swollen, and at first pink in colour and soft. At a later stage yellow points of commencing suppui-cition will be observed, both in the medullary and cortical part. At a still later period the greater part of the gland may be hollowed out into a cavity filled with pus. The appearances of sub-acute inflammation are much the same as in the acute. The microscope shows the usual changes observed in all inflaimiiations ; the vessels are distended, and the gland is crowded everywhere with multitudes of small round cells. These very early choke the lymph sinuses. As these cells exactly resemble the normal coi-puscles of the gland, it is impossible to determine whether they are formed by multiplication of the nonnal lymphoid cells, or have been brought to the gland with the lymph from the inflamed area, or have migrated from the vessels. The capsule and trabeculm are similarly infiltrated with small cells. The formation of pus takes place in the same way as in other parts. In the less acute forms larger cells are found, formed by proliferation of the flattened corpuscles that cover the trabeculae and the inner aspect of the capsule. In the more acute forms the siuTounding tissues are early implicated in the inflammation. Chronic Inflammation of the Lymphatic Glands is regarded as the most characteristic feature of scrofula. In it the gland is enlai’ged often to many times its normal size. In the early stages, it is usually more opaque than natural, and of a grey or dull pink colour. At a later period, yellow points appear, due to caseation. These points gradually increase in size, and coalesce till the whole gland becomes a uniform caseous mass still enclosed in the capsule, which is often considerably thickened. The caseation may terminate the process, the cheesy mass remaining dry and encapsuled without further change. In other cases it is followed by deposit of lime salts, and the diseased gland forms a hard calcareous mass. These formations most commonly occur in the glands of the abdomen and thorax. In superficial glands the caseation is more commonly followed by softening of the cheesy mass, which breaks down into a thick fluid not unlike clotted cream. The softening is accompanied by inflammation, and the slow formation of pus in the tissues round the gland, the capsule gives way at the most superficial part, and the fluid gradually approaches the surface. The chronic abscess thus formed is very slow in perforating the skin, often undermining it for some distance before finding an exit. Microscopic examination of these glands shows in the early stages a great increase in the lymphoid coi-puscles, not only in the follicles of the gland, but also choking the lymph sinuses. Amongst the new corpuscles larger cells are found many times the size of a lymph-corpuscle, and apparently developed from them as all intermediate varieties are found between the two forms. The flattened cells covering the trabeculce, and lying on the meshes of the reticu- lum of the gland, proliferate, and may sometimes be recognized forming a coarse network amongst the lym})hoid corpuscles. At first the gland is more