1190 DISJ^JASES 01' THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. rigid and oidyhymen; when iucision with a prohc-])ointed bistoury or forci))le dilatation may be required. Impregnation, however, is possible, even though the hymen be not ruptured ; and it may be necessary during parturition actually to complete the division of that membrane, ii' thickened and unruptiired, though in most cases it gives way under, the pressure of the foetal head. It may happen that surgical aid is needed to supplement conjugal ehbrts in the consummation of the marriage rite. In these so-called “ delicate ” ciLses, anmsthesia having been induced, the Surgeon introduces a small bivalve speculum shut (Fig, 983), or an ordinary “ glove-stretcher,” and, expanding the blades, ruptures the hymen, and dilates the vagina to the necessary extent as he withdraws the instrument. When severe spasmodic pain, of the character known as vaginismus, is habitually caused by coition, its oi'igin may occasionally be traced to a hyperEesthetic condition of the remains of the hymen. In such cases, excision by means of curved scissors of a complete ring of the sensitive tissue seated immediately vuthin the entrance of the vagina, usually serves to cure the affection ; and this all the more surely if followed by forcible dilatation of the part and the introduction of a firm plug of iodoform gauze, which should be allowed to remain in situ for several days. Absence of the Uterus and Ovaries, with imperforate vagina, is occasionally met with in women, otherwise perfectly well formed : the external organs of generation, labia, and nymphm being present, and the breasts ! developed. In such cases, it is remarkable that sexual desire usually exists. , The true condition may, however, be detected by an examination reciim, i and especially by the introduction of a catheter into the bladder whilst the \ linger is in the rectum, when the two cavities will be found to be in close j apposition without the intervention of uterus or ovaries, the point of the j instrument being felt, thinly-covered, through the gut. In two of the cases of this kind in which I have been consulted, there had been monthly epistaxis. No surgical interference can be of any avail in such cases ; and an attempt to restore the vagina would necessarily lead to fatal results by opening the peritoneal cavity. Occasionally, if the woman has been married, the fruitless attempt at coition on the part of the husband has caused dilatation and expansion of the urethral orifice to such an extent, that the index finger may be introduced into the cavity of the bladder. I have known this expanded urethra mistaken for the vaginal aperture, coitus eftected into it, and the existence of the malformation for a long time completely overlooked. Simultaneous vesical and rectal exploration will always clear up the true nature of the case. Hypertrophy of the Cj.itoris is occasionally met with ; this organ becoming enlarged, elongated, and pendulous, and in some cases attaining an enormous size. Hargrave mentions an instance where it was found alter removal to constitute a tumour weighing five pounds and a hall. hen the clitoris is enlarged, it may give rise to a good deal of irritation, and require excision, an operatioii that is often followed by rather troublesome luemori’hage, requiring the use of the actual cautery for its arrest. The clitoris ]nay also occasionally be the seat of epitlielioma ; which, however, is more commonly met with aftecting the labia jninora and the orifice of the vagina. In cither situation excision by means of Paquelin’s cautery knife is the most effectual mode of treatment.