ANEURISM. 126 oases I agree with Hodgson, that tlie artery should be tied ; for even if the sac eventually suppurate, there will be less risk to the patient if this event occur after the application of the ligature, than if it happen while the artery leading into the tumour is ])crvious. If suppuration have already taken place around the sac, the application of the ligature above the inflamed tumour on the point of bursting would be Avorse than useless. In such cases, the line of practice must be determined by the seat of the aneurism. If this be in the axilla, groin, or neck, it should be laid freely open, the coagula scooped out, and the artery tied above and below the mouth of the sac—a most formidable and doubtful operation, but the only one that holds out a chance of success. If the aneurism be in the ham or calf, amputation Avould probably be the best course to pursue. In some instances, there is no resource left to the Surgeon but to amputate. 1. Amputation must be performed Avhen the aneurism is associated with carious bone or a diseased joint, as when a popliteal aneurism has produced destruction of the knee. 2. If the aneurism have attained so great a magnitude that it has ah’eady interfered seriously Avith the circulation through the limb, as indicated by considerable oedema, lividity, and coldness of the part, with distension of the suj)erficial veins, it is a question whether the application of the ligature may not immediately induce gangrene, and whether the patient would not have the best chance of recoAnry by submitting to amputation at once ; this is more particularly the case when the aneurism, whether preAuously large or small, has become diffused Avith impending gangrene, Avhen removal of the limb must not be delayed. 3. If gangrene have actually supervened, and the patient’s strength be sufficient to bear the operation, amputation should be done without delay. 4. If a diffused aneurism, whether suppurating or not, in the lower extremity, have been opened by mistake for an abscess, there is no resource left but immediate amputation. The mortality after ligatures of the larger ai’teries for aneurism is very considerable. Thus, in 256 cases of ligature of the larger arteries for aneurism, collected and tabulated by Crisp, it would appear that the mortality amounted to about 22 per cent. And Porta finds that, among 600 cases of ligature of arteries for diseases and injuries of all kinds, the mortality amounted to 27 per cent. It must be borne in mind, that these are collec- tions of reported cases, and that, if the unrecorded cases could be got at, the rate of death Avould, in all probability, be found to be much higher eA'en than that above stated. Accidents after Ligature for Aneurism.—The accidents that may folloAV the application of the ligature in a case of aneurism, are : 1, Secondaiy Heemorrhage from the seat of ligature ; 2, the Continuance or the Return of Pulsation in the Sac ; 3, the occurrence of Suppuration and Sloughing of the Tumour, Avith or Avithout Hemorrhage from it ; and 4, Gangrene of the Limb. 1. Secondary Haemorrhage from the seat of ligature presents nothing peculiar, and has already been discussed in a'oI. L, p. 400. 2. The Continuance or Return of Pulsation in an Aneurismal Sac after the ligation of the artery leading to it, is an interesting phenomenon, and one that deserves much attention. When the Hunterian operation is successfully performed, though the pulsation in the sac be entirely arrested, a certain quantity of blood continues to be conveyed into and through it by