I lOO DISEASES OF THE URET UR A. inent away fi'om ifc, not to enter it, lest during the introduction of the catheter he raise with the point of the instrument the valvular angle that intervenes between it and the urethra; every time that this is opened up it tends to lessen the chance of closure of the aperture, whilst, overlapping the urethra, it interferes with the omvard passage of the instrument into the bladder. By withdrawing the instrument and changing its direction, the false passage may often be avoided, and the bladder reached. Should there have been mucli difficulty in introducing the catheter, the better plan will be to allow it to remain in the bladder for two or three days, when the false canal may possibly close. It has already been stated that, in certain forms of stricture, gradual dilata- tion does not succeed in effecting a permanent cure. In these cases four plans of treatment have been recommended—continuous dilatation, the de- struction of the strictm’e by caustic, forcible dilatation, and its division by the knife. These methods will now be described. 2. Continuous Dilatation is merely a modification of the preceding mode of treatment, and is useful only in very tight organic strictm’es. A small instrument is first passed and tied in. In tying the catheter in, care should be taken that it does not lie too far in the bladder. It should be pushed back- wards and forwards until the exact point is found at which the eye is inside sufficiently to allow the water to flow, and be fixed at this point. It is best retained by soft thick silk tied round the corona of the glans, or fix;ed to the body of the penis by a piece of plaster, care of course being taken not to produce strangulation. In from twelve to twenty-four hours, although it may at first have been tightly grasped, the catheter will be found to be quite loose, and urine will escape beside it. It must now be changed for a larger one. In doing this, the fresh instrument should be ready, so that the moment one is removed the other may be introduced. A neglect of this precaution, especially when false passages are present, may seriously increase the difficulty of passing the fresh catheter. By the second day a slight discharge will be found to have been set up from the urethra. The treatment should be continued till the urethra reaches the size of No. 5 or 6, which it will do in a few days at most, after which it is not necessary. The catheter may be closed with a small wooden plug, so that the patient can draw off his own urine, or, better still, an India-rubber tube may be attached so as to drain the bladder. In cases in which a gum-elastic catheter cannot be passed, a small silver one may be tied in, and replaced by a gum-elastic at the first change. "When nothing but a filiform whalebone- or catgut-bougie has been passed, it may still be tied in, as the urine will usually find its way beside it even when it seems at first to be tightly grasped ; and in twelve hours or a little longer it may, in most cases, be changed for a fine gum-elastic catheter. This plan of treatment is of great use in cases in which considerable difficulty is found in introducing the instrument, but it has the disadvantage of being extremely liable to set up cystitis. If the treatment be continued beyond three days, the urine will almost always be found to be alkaline ; and this is scarcely to be wondered at when we consider the way in which the bladder is, as it were, opened up to the air. The risk ol cystitis is much diminished by draining the bladder, for then no urine is le t to decompose, and the mere contact of the soft instrument with the ^^a s of the bladder seems to cause but little irritation by itself. In rare cases, sloughing of the urethra may take place at the seat of strictuie, leading to