NEURALGIA—OPERA TIVE TREA TMENT. 23 than this, it is unsafe to begin with ; but the quantity may be enormously increased. I have had a patient who, to relieve the pains attending cancer of the rectum and anus, required no less than six grains to be injected every I twelfth hour, for several mouths. In some cases a single injection has cured I neuralgia which has resisted all other means. Relief may often be obtained by the use of electricity in the form of the continuous current. The positive I sponge must be applied to some convenient place near the seat of pain, while I the neuFcdgic spot is gently rubbed with the negative until the skin is reddened, i In exceptional cases the relief is permanent. I In many cases all these means, however, are unfortunately unavailing, and i the sufferer is doomed to an existence of almost constant pain, except at times ; when the disease appears to cease of itself, or has its intensity blunted by the I administration of the more powerful sedatives, such as morphia hypodermically, f or veratria, aconite, or atropine externally. In these distressing cases the sufferer is ready to gi’asp at any means of relief that is held out to him ; and stretching of the affected nerve is now frequently undertaken in the hope of relieving, if not completely removing the affection. This operation has already been described (p. 479, Vol. I.). It was there pointed out that the effect produced differs considerably, according to the size of the nerve operated on. In small nerves, such as those of the face, the conductivity of the nerve is abolished as completely as if it had been divided, but as its continuity is not interrupted, repair always takes place, and after a time its function is restored. In the larger nerves, even when considerable force is used, the con- ductivity is not completely abolished, although it may be modified for a time. It is only when great force is used that the breaking up of the medullary sheath observed by Leuterman and Horsley takes place. We have seen that in sciatica, in which the disease is seated in the actual trunk of the nerv'e, great benefit is usually derived from nerve-stretching, and probably the same result may be hoped for when a similar condition exists in other nerves. In the majority of cases of neuralgia, however, the cause is f either some peripheral mritation of the terminal branches or some central f disease, and in these but little is to be expected from the operation. In the « former case there might be temporary relief until repair of the nerA^e was accomplished ; and in the latter, although experience has shown that there is ! sometimes some improvement, this is only of the most temporary character. hen stretching has failed, section of affected nerve is not unfrequently I recommended as a last chance of the removal of the disease. Simple section of the smaller nerves is now replaced by stretching, which, as has just been ' stated, temporarily abolishes their conductivity. Division is undertaken with the intention of permanently destroying the continuity of the nerve, and to ensure this about a third or half an inch of the trunk must be cut away. As with stretching, however, it is clear that the operation, though occasion- ally productive of temporary relief, cannot in most cases be expected to benefit the patient permanently ; for by it the cause of the neuralgia is not removed, and it can consequently be of service only when the pain is peripheral, occasioned by some local irritation existing between the part cut and the terminal branches of the nerve. If the neuralgia depend on any central cause, or on local irritation existing higher up than the point divided, the operation must eventually be useless. Thus, if the source of irritation exist in the terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve, the division of this trunk