VOL. II. 4 S/\iSJfOl)lC ,srm!MA TORRuau—rMro trnce. ri85 passed down to the spot to be cauterized, the solution is forced out of the aperture by pushing- down the rod, which compresses the sponge. T havi* found this syringe-catheter far safer and more managealde than Lallemand’s or any other porte-caustiques that act by protruding a spoon or sponge, Avhich is apt to be grasped by the spasmodic action of the muscles of the part, often lieing returned with difficulty into the shaft, and not without risk of lacerating the mucous membrane. I generally use a solution of the strength of 5.1 of the nitrate to an ounce of water ; though sometimes only a half or a third of this strength can be borne. The application usually occasions a good deal of irritation for a time, sometimes even a muco-purulent discharge, and can be i-epeated only at intervals of from ten days to a fortnight. Any undue amount of in-itation, particularly after the application, must be subdued by ordinary antiphlogistic treatment. After the nitrate of silver has been used two or tlmee times, the treatment may be advantageously con- tinued by passing twice a week a similar instrument charged with glycerine of tannin. This acts as an admirable astringent, and suits many people better than the nitrate. 2. Spasmodic Spermatorrhcea, or Spermaspasmos, more frequently occurs between the ages of twenty-five and forty. It is frequently predisposed to by residence in a warm climate, or by the existence of some disease about the generative organs; such as stricture, varicocele, neuralgia testis, &c. In these cases there is not, properly speaking, a seminal flux; but complete connection cannot be effected, as erection and ejaculation are either simultaneous acts, or the erection partially subsides before the emission takes place. This form of generative debility is often as much dependent on mental or moral as on purely physical causes. Treatment.—This is a condition of irritability rather than of debility. ] t often occui-s in strong and otherwise healthy men, accustomed to field-sports and out-of-door exercises. There is no evidence of anaemia or of debility of any kind. Hence tonics are not necessary; nor, indeed, would they be in any way useful. The remedy most to be relied upon is the bromide of potassium in doses of 20 to 30 grains, with local cold bathing, and, perhaps, when there is urethral irritation, blistoi-s to the perinaeum and along the penis, with belladonna to the interior of the urethra. In addition to these means, it is of the fii-st importance to enjoin moderation in food and drink, and above all, avoidance of alcoholic stimuli ; for, in many of these cases, it will be found that abdo- minal plethora co-exists, and exercises aii injurious influence. 3. Impotence arising from absence of all sexual desire or power, or from premature decay of that power, is not unfrcquently met with, and often in individuals w'ho arc otherwise strong and healthy; sometimes, indeed, in those characterized by great muscular power, and much given to athletic cxerci.ses. This want of sexual desire may be looked iijxm in many instances as a natural deficiency in the organization of the individual, for which medical or surgical treatment can do little. In other cases it arises from exhaustion of the nervous system by habitual jdiysiciil or mental exertion, by excessive sexual indulgence, over-training, or study carried to too great and injurious a degree. Oomj)lete absence of seminal secretion—Asperma—except in ca.ses of atrophy or al)senee of the testes, must he especially rare. In a ])atient of mine who died at 54 years of age, and who, according to his own and hi.s wife’s account, had