1156 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND (’0111). ’’I’lie Curative Treatment lias fur ifs olijeefc tlie oxoitutioii of a sutficient (le<'Tee of inflaminiitioii in tlie tuiiiua A'aginalis to restore the lost balance between secretion anti absorption ; but it is not necessaiy that the serous caA ity should be obliterated l:)y adhesions between its ojiposite sides, though these not nnfrequcntly form. The means by which the Surgeon sets nj* this inflammation are either throwing a stimulating injection into that cavity after tapping it, or the introduction of a small seton into tlie tunica vaginalis. hichever plan is adopted, a certain amount of inflammation ought to be set up. This is always attended by consideralile swelling of the testis, and by the ettiision of a fresh quantity of fluid into the tunica Aaiginalis. As this is absorbed, the part gradually resumes its nonnal liulk, aud the disease will probably not return. In order that the radical cure, in whichever way undertaken, should be safe and efficient, it is necessary, in the first instance, that the disease should have been allowed to attain a chronic condition, more particularly if the hydrocele have been of rapid growth. In order to jirevent its attaining too large a size, it will be well to adopt palliative tapping once or twice before attempting the radical cure. Care must be taken to remove all inflammation and tenderness about the testis also, before having recourse to this means of treatment. If attention be not paid to this, recurrence of the hydrocele will probably ensue. After the proper amount of inflammation has been set up, it will be well to treat the patient as if he were suffering under an ordinary attack of orchitis, confining him to the bed or couch for a few days ; indeed, care in the after-treatment is of very considerable importance in securing a favourable result. The treatment by Injection is that which is commonly employed. It consists in tapping the tumour in the usual way, and then throwmg a sufficient ijuantity of stimulating fluid into the tunica vaginalis through the cannula, so as to excite a proper amount of inflammation in it. Port-wine, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc of the strength of 5i to 3xij, were formerly employed, but their use has been entirelv abandoned since the introduction of iodine for the purpose. Injection of Iodine.—The injection of tincture of iodine, originally introduced by Sir J. R. Martin, whilst j^ractising at Calcutta, is now always preferred as a more certain and safer mode of treatment than any other. Many Surgeons prefer the liquor iodi to the tincture, believing it to be more certain in its effect. The quantity of tincture of iodine injected should vary from two drachms to half an ounce, according to the size of the tumour. It may be iLsed pure or diluted with an equal quantity of water. After injection, the Surgeon should rub the scrotum gently OAxr the testis, so as to diffuse the injection equally over the surface of the sac. One half the quantity thrown in slumld then be allowed to escape, the rannula removed, and the puncture idosed Avith a piece of plaster. The cannula used for this purpose should be made of platinum and not of silver, which is ajDt to l)ecome corroded and made brittle by the action of the iodine. A good deal of inflammation, with fresh effusion into the sac, will usually be set up, on tlie subsidence of wliich a c,ure Avill be found to have been eflected. Useful as the iodine-injection is, it sometimes fails in producing a indical cure of hydrocele. This is attributable to two causes : the first is, that in .some cases sufficient inflammation is not set up to induce tliat condition of the