146 ANEURISM. maintained for from two to six lionrs, even if all pulsation has ceased when the tourniquet is taken off. The mode hj which the elastic bandage effects a cure is by causing stasis of the blood in the aneurism and the adjoining part of the artery. This stagnant blood coagulates, the clot being formed first in the aneurismal sac, and then spreading to the artery. G-ould is of opinion that the permanent, cure of the aneurism is effected chiefly by means of the portion of coagulum extending into the artery. This being in contact Avith the comparatively healthy AA^alls of the vessel undergoes the changes described in the chapter on wounds of arteries (Vol. I., p. 397); the vessel is thus permanently occluded. The clot in the aneurism, on the other hand, being in contact Avith the un- healthy Avails of the sac, or Avith layers- of laminated fibrin, undergoes no pro- cess of organization, but tends to become friable, and to yield l)efore the pressure of the blood, unless protected by the thrombus in the artery. If, hoAA'eAm’, the vessel be safely occluded, the sac and its contents gi’adually shrivel and are absorbed. Failure has in some cases apparently been due to the bandage having been applied too tightly over the tumour, so that the sac was but partly filled by the coagulum. In other cases it may have been due to a AA^ant of coagulability in the blood, and in order to avoid the possibility of this it is well to submit the patient to a course of medical treatment and diet (p. 118) before applying the bandage. If, on removal of the bandage, there is still distinct pulsation to be felt, although the tumour seems partially consolidated, a cure may often be effected by digital or instrumental compression in a few hours. The chief danger to be apprehended seems to be gangrene, which has occurred in more than one case. It appears to have been due to thrombosis taking place in the vein, and possibly also in the capillaries of the parts in the neighbourhood of the aneurism from which the blood had not been expelled. This, with the simultaneous occlusion of the artery, Avould offer an amount of obstruction to the circulation which would almost certainly end in gangrene. The only means of avoiding it seems to be by carrying the bandage lightly over the tumour, by which the veins may be emptied Avhile the fulness of the sac is not interfered Avith. The expulsion of so large an amount of blood from the limb necessarily raises the arterial tension in the rest of the body; consequently the use of the elastic bandage is not to be recommended in patients affected Avith an internal aneurism which might rupture under the strain. For the same reason it should be avoided when there is a suspicion of fatty heart. The elastic bandage is most likely to succeed in effecting a cure in aneurisms that are beginning to undergo consolidation. It is of little use in aneurisms that are large, rapidly increasing, Avith thin walls and fluid contents. Flexiox.—The treatment of aneurism by flexion of the contiguous joint is a method that is scarcely applicable to any other form of the disease than the popliteal. The history of this plan of treating aneurisms is interesting, as an illustration of the gradual steps by Avhich Surgery usually arrives at its ultimate results. It had been long knoAvn to Surgeons that the pulse at the Avrist might be aiTested by the forcible flexion of the foreann on the arm ; and Malgaigne and Richet had recommended this means for the arrest of haemor- rhage from the brachial arteiy and the arteries of the forearm Avhen Avounded. Fleury—a distinguished French naval Surgeon—having succeeded in curing a