1097 ACCIDENTS ATTENDING CATJIETEIUSM. |.i, and inflammation of the testicles, and abscess in the perinaeum or prostate, duced, I have more than once liad occasion to regret being in. too much '-ste to increase the size of the instrument; and, by augmenting it by two or ree numbers at one sitting, have seen the patient thrown back for weeks by e supervention of some of the aflections just mentioned. ! By gradual dilatation, properly carried out, most strictures may be con- lerably relieved in the course of a few weeks ; and the majority may be •ought to the full size by continuing the treatment for a sufficient length of me. Some, however, cannot be cured in this way ; it would appear that the •ssue of which they are composed is so rigid that, although they may be ipanded up to a certain size—say up to No. 5 or G—it is impossible to go ;.'yond this. In other cases there is a great tendency to relapse, and to a etum of the constriction ; the stricture rapidly becoming tighter so soon as le introduction of the instruments is discontinued, even though it be dilated ) the full size of the urethra, up to No. 12 catheter, for instance. In some Mstances the relapse is almost instantaneous, micturition being as difficult as “fore immediately the catheter is withdrawn. In these cases recourse must be d to other measures, which will be described. Accidents attending Catheterism.—The introduction of instruments ccasionally gives rise to certain troublesome and even dangerous sequences. |l.mongst these, syncope and rigors, haBmorrhage, and inflammatory irritation 11 bout the urethra or testes, are the most common. n Nervous Symptoms, Rigors, and Urethral Fever.—The subject of rrethral fever following the use of instruments on the urinary organs in )ersons affected with chronic subacute interstitial nephritis has already been iljLiscussed at p. 915. There is no class of cases in which this untoward com- |li)lication is more apt to occur than in the treatment of stricture of the urethra, flawing no doubt in a great degree to the frequency of the occuiTence of chronic nd possibly unsuspected kidney disease in old cases of stricture. Yarious degrees of constitutional disturbance may be produced by the iBa&sage of an instrument through a stricture. In nervous and sensitive indi- dduals this operation is often attended by a sensation of faintness and chilli- less as the instrument enters the bulb or membranous portions of the m’ethra. This sensation is not due either to pain or to fear. It is purely reflex, and m most cases soon passes off, being less liable to recur as the urethra gets more ustomed to the use of instruments. If a person liable to these nervous feelings is exposed to a chill, a severe |r rigor may come on some houi-s after the passage of the instrument, or the same .occurrence may happen when there has been no predisposition to it, the rigor coming on suddenly and without warning. This is more apt to happen when I the stricture is tight; when metallic instruments have been used—possibly with si.>me degree of force, and, though during a considerable length of time—perhaps in vain attempts to penetrate the stricture. The rigora in these circumstances are very severe, so much so as to resemble an attack of ague. During the rigor the temperature rises considerably, often to 104° or 105°. The subsidence of the rigor is marked by profuse sweating, and is usually attended by gi-eat exhaustion. This occurrence is always very •alarming, and, though usually not attended by positive danger, leaves the patient weak and exhausted ; and if he be old, of broken constitution, or the subject of chronic kidney-disease, a fatal result may rapidly ensue. In