nwGiyosrs of caries of spine. 427 If Iliac and psoas abscesses require to be diagnosed also from certain forms of 'meurism of the aMommal aorta or iliac arteries ; which, having become diffused by rupture of their sac, have formed large non-pulsating extravasations in lihe sheath of the psoas in the iliac fossa, hi such cases the previous history, ;he absence of distinct fluctuation, and possibly stethoscopic examination, :ogether with the rapid increase of the tumour, Avill throw light on the true lature of the case. In other cases, again, when the abscess, after deeply burrowing, has per- orated the fascia lata, its feel closely resembles that of certain fatty tumours. lere the possibility of diminishing the size of the swelling on pressure, and mpulse on coughing, and the absence of a solid edge to the swelling, enable he Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. From femoral hernia the soft and fluctuating character of the swelling, its rrradual retuni Avhen pressure is taken off, its situation external to or below he femoral vessels, and aU absence of gurgling, constitute the chief distin- ,niishing characters. Large serous collections and hydatid tumours are occasionally met with in he iliac fossa and groin, presenting in their progress, their size, and their fluc- iif.uation, all the characters of chronic abscess ; from which, however, the cha- a^acter of the fluid let out on puncturing them wiU immediately disting-uish hem. Prognosis.—The prognosis is necessarily unfavom-able. It has two l| spects : 1, As to the persistence of Deformity ; 2, As to the Life of the atient. 1. Deformity.—The angular cuiwature arising from caries of the bodies'of ae vertebrae is necessarily an incurable deformity. The diseased spine is )ldered and held together by fusion of the partly destroyed vertebral bodies ; md any attempt at straightening or unfolding this excurvation would be Intended by the gi’eatest risk, from danger of exciting imtation of the spinal leninges, or opening the spinal canal. When excurvation has taken place, •lere has been loss of substance ; and this cannot be repaired. Hence the oine must remain shortened in front and bent out posteriorly, gmng rise to le ordinary forms of hump-back. . . 2. Life.—So far as life is concerned, the prognosis will depend on several U yonditions. The first is whether the disease is accompanied or not by M nppuration. When suppuration occurs, much will depend on the extent of *. ’ le caries : if several vertebrae be affected, so that the curve is very long, the M dsease is necessarily highly dangerous from the extent of osseous structure im- ji ■ -icated. It Avas long ago remarked by Boyer, that the most fatal cases Avere «:3nerally those in which the spine preserved its straight position ; Avhereas, hen it AA'as much curved, death seldom resulted. The truth of this remark I we had frequent occasion to verify; and the circumstance Avould appear to i owing to the fact that, Avhen the spine continues straight at the same time lat the bodies of the vertebrae are tuberculous and carious, ankylosis cannot ’dir, so that the spinal canal is open and the cord irritated ; Avhereas, Avhen ley haA'e fallen together and veiy consideralfle gibbosity has resulted, ankylosis ore readily takes place, and thus an impeHect cure is effected. The size of ic abscesses, and the amount of discharge from them, must also necessarily f Hously influence the result. If they be very large, and continuously dis- *f| larging, hectic and consequent death Avill probably supei’A'ene. The presence i'V 14 / d ft i