900 DISFASJUS OF THE LARGE TNTESTIN'E AND ANUS. and sphincter ani muscles. For this nothing can advantageously be done by operation. Palliation by simple support is the sole treatment. Tuk.\tj[knt.—The treatment of prolapsus may be said to be palliative and curative. The Palliative Treatment consists in the lii-st place in reducin'*- the tumour Avhen protruded. This, in ordinary circumstances, the patient does for himself; but, if it become congested, it requires the h6lp of the Surgeon to put it back. This may occasionally be readily done by laying the ])atient ou his side, or making him lean over the back of a chair ; and then greasing the mass Avith some oil, seizing it with a soft towel, and gradually compressing it, working it back. It may be kept up by Avearing a belt with a pad and elastic support. Olive-shaped pewter pessaries are occasionally employed, Avith the view of preventing the protrusion ; but f have never seen them of any service, the sphincter being usually too relaxed to keep them up, and their prcssui-e appearing to excite irritation. The regulation of the bowels is as important in prolapsus as in piles. It is usually best done by the administration of those laxatives that have l^en recommended for the latter disease. It is a good plan in prolapsus to get the patient to liaA’o his daily motion at bed-time instead of at the usual hour in the morning ; the recumbent position and the nniforin temperature of the bed preA^entiiig the irritation of the sphincter and spasm of the anal musclesj that commonly continue for some time after the reduction of the prolapsus,] and which are a source of great discomfort Avhen occurring in the early part ol the day. Curative Treatment.—The relaxation of the mucous membrane of th rectum that essentially constitutes prolapsus may often be obAuated by astriii' gent injections or suppositories. The best injection is that of the sulphate o] iron, in the strength of from one to three grains in an ounce of Avater, tlrroATi] up in small quantities sufficient for the bowel to retain. In mild cases o; prolapsus, conjoined Avith a relaxed state of the mucous membrane of th rectum and relaxation of the sphincter, the use of the iron injection Avill h found particularly beneficial, at the same time that the action of the bowels regulated by means of an electuary taken in the morning or at night, thus giAung tone to the boAvel, at the same time that constipation is preA'euti the disease will occasionally undergo a cure, provided it be not associated Avi any affection in other organs. In those cases in Avhich the prolapsus is hromorrlioidal or polypoid, the pr trusion being dragged doAA'n by the Aveight and strain of the pile or polypi the same treatment must be adopted as has been recommended for the lattii',*- disease; and usually, after the ligature and removal of the pile or polypus, tlti- r prolapsus will be cured. In slight cases of prolapsus, in Avhich the dise^^. appeai-s rather to be OAving to the relaxation of the sphincter and of the tissiii V external to it, the muco-cutaneous integument hanging in loose folds arouj#iu( the anus, considerable benefit Avill commonly result from snipping oft' thj<' pendulous flaps of skin; the cut surface that is left cicatrizing, and byil contraction bracing up the part, and thus preventing its further protrusilk- These pendulous flaps arc best reinoA'cdin a direction radiating from the af'- - orifice, Avith curved knife-edged scissors. When the prolapsus is considerable, and the ordinary palliatiA’c trcatint'’ after a proper trial fails in effecting a cure, it Avill be necessary to renin the protruded mucous membrane by operation. This should be done by i 'f'f-