DISEASES OF VEINS. SO CHAPTER XL. DISEASES OF VEINS. VENOUS THROMBOSIS. Thrombosis or coagulation of the blood in the vessels during life is very coininon in the veins. Causes.—The views generally entertained at the present time with regard to coagulation are that fibrin does not exist as such in the blood, but is formed by the union of two substances, fibrinogen and paraglobulin, under the influence of a third body of the nature of a ferment, known as the fibrin- ferment. The fibrinogen is always normally present in the blood plasma and the paraglobulin is supposed to be contained chiefly in the white corpuscles. The fibrin-ferment is not supposed to be present in a free state in the blood as it circulates in the body, but is liberated from the Avhite corpuscles under certain conditions. Blood, in contact with the walls of vessels, which, to use Cohnheim’s expression, are in a state of “ physiological integrity,” shows no tendency to coagulate, but when it is brought in contact with dead matter clotting takes place. In the same way, if the integrity of the vessels is damaged by disease or injury fibrin becomes deposited at the damaged spot. The presence of free ferment in the blood may also cause coagulation in the living body. Kohler has shown that if a sufficient quantity of fibrin-ferment be experimentally introduced into the blood-stream, rapid coagulation will take place, even in contact with healthy vessels. If a smaller quantity is injected there is severe febrile disturbance, but thrombosis does not take place, the influence of the healthy walls of the vessels being then supposed to be sufficient to arrest coagulation until the ferment is eliminated from the blood. Ketardation, or arrest of the blood-stream, acts as a powerful predisposing cause of thrombosis. These conditions apply equally to all vessels, whether arteries, capillaries, or veins, but we have to consider them here in reference to the veins only. The causes of venous thrombosis may thus be classified :— 1. Changes in the condition of the wall of the vessel due to (a) injury ; {])) inflammation ; (c) degeneration. 2. Altered conditions of the blood in which there is supposed to be a libera- ’ tion of the ferment. 2). Retardation or arrest of the blood-stream ; due to (a) diminished vis a tergo; (J) pressure on the vessel ; (c) interruption of its continuity ; (d) | obstruction by a thrombus due to any of the preceding causes. 1. Changes in the wall of the vessel. a. Injury.—The effect of any severe injury to the coats of a vein is either to extinguish, or so far to diminish, the vitality of the injured part, that it behaves towards the blood as a foreign body, and a coagulum is formed