RESULTS OF ATHEROMA. 91 !: a ! I I i ■with closely-set calcareous plates. When the dilatation reaches a certain degree and is limited to a definite area, the condition is described as a fusi- form aneurism, the distinction between that and simple dilatation being only one of degi'ee (see Aneurism). The loss of elasticity in the coats seriously interferes with the circulation through distant parts, as the natural storage of the heart’s force in the elastic walls of the larger vessels by which the continuous flow between each systole is maintained, is no longer possible. The circulation in the extremities is, therefore, usually feeble, and the nutrition of the parts correspondingly im- perfect. Xarroii'ing or Occlusion of the Branches leaving the Atheromatous Trunk is by no means uncommon. As before stated, the orifices of the branches from the main trunk are common seats of the earliest atheromatous patches. The thickening of the intima may take place in a ring round the mouth of the vessel and thus gradually narrow it. The coincident thickening of the outer coat may still further contract the orifice. When complete obliteration occurs the final obstruction probably takes place by the formation of a thrombus in the diseased arteiy immediately above the narrowed orifice. Complete obliteration is most common in those cases in Avhich the dilatation of the main trunk has reached such a degree as to merit the name of a fusiform anem’ism. In a case in Univeraity College Hospital a few years ago, in which the left carotid was tied for aneurism of the innominate artery and the arch of the aorta with an immediately fatal result, it Avas found that the right subclaAuan was obliterated where it left the dilated innominate, the right carotid was permeable, but pressed on by the aneurism, and the aortic opening of the left subclaAian was completely closed, thus the artery which was tied AA^as the only vessel carrying blood to the brain. NarroAAing of the coronaiy arteries by an atheromatous ring at their orifices is a common cause of fatty heart. Thrombosis is an occasional consequence of atheroma. So long as the patch is covered by an unbroken layer of the inner coat with its endothelial covering, there is no tendency for coagulation to take place upon it. When, however, the patch has softened and discharged into the circulation, leaving an “ athero- matous ulcer,” or AA'hen the thin coveruig over a calcareous plate has been worn aAvay, the diseased structures come into direct contact Avith the blood. If the surface is tolerably smooth, the nish of blood past the diseased patch is so rapid that adhesion of the corpuscles is barely possible and consequently no thrombosis results; but in pouch-like dilatations it readily takes place. In the stime Avay it may occur in a very dilated vessel if the heart’s action is unusually feeble. A clot thus formed may gradually increase in size till it fills the Avhole ves.scl, but more commonly after reaching a certain bulk it is Avashed aAvay and cairied on as an embolus to some distant part. If it be of sufficient size obstruct a main artery of one of the limbs at its bifurcation, gangrene Avill frequently result. Smaller fragments lodging in the extremities usually produce no important effects, the anastomosing circulation being sufficient to take the jdacc of the obstructed vessel. If lodging in one of the solid viscera, it gives rise to a hjcmon-hagic infarct (see Vol. I., 1)37), but does not as a rule cause any serious consequences. Syphilitic Endarteritis has already been descrilwd (Vol. T., p. 101)2). Arteritis Obliterans or Obliterative Arteritis (Friedliincler). Endar-