LIGATURE OF THE SECOND PART OF SUBCLAVIAN 211 of ascertaining; whether it was the vessel or not, except by passing the needle under it. Puncture of the ‘ple-ura in passing the needle is not usually recognized as one of the dangei*s of ligature of the third part of the artery. It may, however, take place, especially if the needle is passed close to the scalenus aiiticus and from above, as must often be the case when the clavicle is much raised. In connection with the ligature of the subclavian in this situation it is impossible to pass over in silence the fact, that in some instances the artery 1 takes a remarkably high course in the neck, and that in some of these instances j instead of passing over the first dorsal rib, it has been supported on a super- I numerary cervical rib, the anatomical relations being thus seriously disturbed. 1 And again, if this supernmnerary cervical rib be unusually short, the vessel i may be found to lie between it and the first dorsal. Another abnormality of j great rarity is the passage of the subclavian vein behind the scalenus anticus with the artery. This would add greatly to the difficulty of the operation. Ligature bekind the Scalenus anticus.—If the sac encroach upon the neck, rising above the clavicle, or the artery be not sound in the third part of its course, it may be necessary to ligature it behind the scalenus anticus, dividing the outer half or two-thirds of the muscle. This operation should not be considered as distinct from ligature of the vessel in the third part of its course, but rather as an extension of that proceeding, if it be found, for the reasons just mentioned, unadvisable to tie the artery on the first rib ; in this way it has been practised by Dupuytren and Liston. In its first steps, as far as the exposure of the scalenus anticus, it is the same as that for the deligation of the vessel in the third part of its course. When this muscle has been exposed, a director must be pushed under it, upon which it is to be divided to the extent of half or two-thirds its breadth, when it retracts, exposing the vessel. During this part of the operation, some danger may be incurred by the phrenic ■ nerve, and the transversales colli and humeri arteries ; but if ordinary cai-e be taken, this will not be very great. The phrenic nerve lies altogether to the ; tracheal side of the incision, if that be not carried beyond one-half the breadth I of the muscle; and should it appear to be in the way, it may readily be pushed ' inwards towards the mesial line, being only loosely invested by areolar tissue. 1 I have, however, seen one instance in which the right subclavian artery was ligatured for a spontaneous cylindriform aneurism of the axilla, and the patient died on the eighth day, of pneumonia ; on examination after death, the edge ' of the scalenus was found cut, and the phrenic nerve divided. Had the in- . jnry to the nerve in this case anything to do with the pneumonia ? I do not think it improbable ; as division of one phrenic nerve, by paralysing to a certain extent the diaphragm, and so far interfering with the respiratory move- ments, must necessarily have a tendency to induce congestion of the lung, • which would readily run on to inflammation of that organ. I have likewise heard of one case in whicli incessant hiccough followed this operation, and after death the phrenic nerve was found reddened and inflamed, having ; probably in some way been interfered with during the exposure of the ? vessel. The transversales colli and humeri arteries may be avoided by keeping : the incision in the muscle between and parallel to these vessels. Another imj)ortant point in reference to the ligature of the vessel in this part of its course is, that in five cases out of six on the right side and in one- p 2