870 lUSEASES OF THE LA HOE INTESTIEE AND ANUS. Avliicli lias added imich to oui' knuwledo-c of tlie subject. The eases adajiteil to removal are not numerous, accordiiif*- to Ciipps, foi-minji: about one in live of thosethat come under observation. 'I’he conditions which render the ojiera- tion justifiable are the following- ;—The patient must not be too old, and must be in fair health; the growth must be so situated that'the fingei-can be jiassed fairly beyond it, and it must be freely movable, not having inijilicated surrounding parts. The most favourable cases ai-e those limited to one side, especially the posterior. It is an imjiortant question how far the dissection can be carried upwards without Avounding the peritoneum. Cripps, Avho has carefully investigated this point, states that in the male the distance from the recto-vesical pouch to the anus is two and a half inches Avhen the bladder is empty, and an additional inch AAdicn it is distended. In the female the distance from the recto-uterine pouch to the anus is someAAdiat greater. The removal of a malignant groAvth from the rectum is accomplished as folloAvs :—If it be very small, and situated very Ioav doAvn, it may be possible to bring it into view by forcible dilatation of the anus. This is done by inserting the two first fingers of each hand into the anus and forcibly dragging it open. After this the anus Avill usually be sufficiently relaxed to allow of the affected portion of the gut being seized and drawii out to such an extent as to allow of the free removal of the groAvth by the ecraseur, scissors, or Paquelin’s cautery. Cases in Avhich this is practicable are, however, very rare. The removal of a portion of the boAvel, including the whole circumference or a considerable part of one side, can be safely performed only when the anus has been enlarged by incision, as suggested by Denonvilliers. The operation is thus lAerformed. The rectum haAung been thoroughly cleansed AA'ith an enema immediately before the operation, the patient is placed i]i the lithotomy position, and a curved sharp pointed bistoury, guarded by the left fore-finger, is passed in at the anus, the handle is then raised so that the point is made to pierce the gut and appear superficially close to the tip of the coccyx exactly in the middle line; the parts betAveen the coccyx and anus are then divided by a single cut. If more room be required during this operation it may be obtained by remoAung the coccyx. The bleeding must now be arrested, and a stout ligature may be passed through on either side, by AAdtich the two edges of the Avound may be held Avidely apart. An incision is then carried from the margin of the wound on one side in a cui'A’ed direction round the auus to a corresponding point on the other side. If the anus itself is healthy this may be made at the junction of the mucous membrane and skin. The gut can noAV be separated pos- teriorly without any difficulty by means of the finger, aided by the scissors, at the attachment of the levator ani. "When the sides are separated the gut must be draAvn backAvards and separated by careful dissection from the vagina in the female, or urethra and prostate in the male. To avoid any risk of Avounding the urethra a large silA'er catheter should be passed at this stage of the operation, Avhich will be clearly felt from the Avound. The gut having been noAV separated it may be cut aAvay by ineans of the ecraseur, scissors, or Paquelin’s cautery. The ecraseur has the adA'antage of preventing hemorrhage, Avhich in so deep a Avouud might be difficult to arrest. Paquelin’s cautery has the disadvantage of hardening the edges of the AVOund so that it is difficult to ascertain if they are free from <lisease. During the oiAeration hemorrhage must be arresterl. partly l)y the