1202 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. nature of the tiiinour, it should in all cases be as limited as possible. A small cut, two to three inches long, extending in the mid-line to within an inch of the pubes, will suffice for the removal of any simple cyst; and, if necessary, may readily be prolonged upwards. All haemorrhage from bleeding points in the abdominal wall having been arrested by the application of Wells’s pressure- forceps, the peritoneum must be divided, care being taken to open it fairly ; for, if adherent, it may readily be mistaken for the cyst-wall, and so stripped off the under surface of the abdominal muscles. On exposing the tumour, any soft parietal adhesions in the immediate neighbourhood of the incision may be separated by the Surgeon’s finger. The growth if cystic, should then be tapped with Wells’s trochar, care being taken to avoid the escape of any fluid into the abdominal cavity by flxing the edges of the puncture Avith the trochar-clamps, Avhich enable the operator to extract the gradually collapsing cyst. Should this prove impracticable owing to the multilocular nature of the growth, the trochar must be carefully with- drawn after applying Nelaton’s forceps, and the puncture in the cyst-wall sufficiently enlarged to permit of the Surgeon’s introducing his hand for the purpose of breaking down the contents of the tumour. If still unable to extract it, he must prolong his incision upwards, and carefully separate any parietal, omental, or intestinal adhesions which may be present, applying pressure-forceps as required to all bleeding points. Immediately after the extraction of the tumour, a flat sponge squeezed thoroughly dry, should be introduced for the puiqDose of protecting the intestines and preventing their protrusion. The pedicle is noAV examined and its connection with the uterus clearly defined. As a rule, it is most convenient to tie it before cutting away the tumour; but, if desirable, it may be temporarily secured vdth strong pressure- forceps during division, and then dealt with subsequently. The following is an efficient method of procedure : a single thread is first passed at a point just internal to the large plexus of A'^eins in the outer edge of the pedicle, and securely tied so as to include the plexus, together with the ovarian artery which runs along this border. The pedicle is next transfixed centrally with a double ligatm-e, and tied in equal halves, care being taken that the loops interlace at the seat of puncture. Pressure-forceps are then applied to either border on the distal side of the ligatures, and the tumour is cut aAvay. Finally a single loop of stout silk is tied firmly round the stump, either exactly iu or immediately behind the groove formed by the previous ligatures. All the threads should be. cut short, and the pedicle be returned, without, however, removing the pressure-forceps, Avhich are left on in order to facilitate a final examination of the stump before closing. The condition of the remaining ovary should next be ascertained ; and if diseased, it should be removed. Parietal adhesions, unless of long standing, do not as a rule require ligature, temporary compression by forceps usually sufficing for the arrest of hemor- rhage. Should there, hoAveA’er, be general oozing from a someAvhat extensive surface, the application of a sponge moistened Avith strong Liq. Ferri Per- chloridi Avill serve readily to control it. Bands of pelvic adhesions must alwa3’s be tied as near as possible to their seat of origin, and cut short. Omental and intestinal adhesions need careful management; the forjner should be dealt Avith either by transfixion and tying off in sections, or else by separate ligature