! I COLUMXAR PAPILLOMA OF NOSE. 555 extirpated, the nose sliould be pushed back and moulded into sliape. The : soft parts are then brought together with a few points of suture. As in I all similar operations, the posterior nares must be plugged to prevent the I blood finding its way into the trachea. Occasionally the disease has extended into the integuments at the inner j angle of the eye. Then the operation becomes more complicated. The fol- i lowing cases, operated on by me at University College blospital, are good i illustrations of this operation. The first case was one of epithelioma, springing deeply from the ethmoidal cells, passing ont through the lachrymal bone and the orbital plate of the ethmoid into the orbit, blocking up the right nostril, and extending some way down the cheek, overlying the superior maxilla. It was groAving rapidly in a Avoman 44 years of age, and required extensive removal of the bony structures in the situation from Avliich it sprang. The next case was one of a Avoman 64 years of age, in Avhom a sarcoma developed Avith gi’eat rapidity in the situation of the lachrymal sac, invading the nose and orbit, and destroying the upper and inner part of the superior maxillary bone. The eye AA'as pushed outAvards, the eyelids became implicated in their nasal third, and an ulcerated opening formed over the centre of the tumour. Its groAvth Avas attended by A^ery seA*ere tensive pain. The operation consisted in dissecting aAvay the diseased part of the integument, including the nasal third of each eyelid, then turning doAvn a flap from the cheek and cutting away AA'ith pliers the osseous structures, including the inner part of the floor of the orbit, a considerable portion of the superior maxilla, and part of the nasal bones. In order to repair the gap made by the removal of . diseased skin at the side of the nose and by the remoA^^al of so large a portion of the eyelids, a flap of integument was dissected off the bridge of the nose and glided over the aperture, to the edges of which and to the eyelids i it was fixed by metallic sutiu’es. Good union took place, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The immediate effect of the operation in both i these cases AA'as to relieA'e the patient of the agonizing pain, previously I occasioned by the tension in the bones of the face produced by the gTOwth of the tumour. Busch has described a case, in Avhich the patient, a man aged 78, had a malignant tumour of the size of a fist, occupying the middle of the face. The symptoms at the commencement Avere those of nasal polypus. In removing it, it Avas necessary to cut close to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and as far back as the posterior nares. A flap of skin Avas transplanted from the forehead, not so much to form a new nose as to cover in the cavity left. The patient Avas able to leave the hospital in a few Aveeks. Columnar Papilloma.—I have once met Avith this form of groAvth in the nasal fossm in a lady past sixty. It sprung from the roof of the nasal cavity, and formed a mass blocking the nostrils .and projecting into each orbit laterally. 31uch relief was obtained for a time by removing the projecting part of the tumour by avulsion Avith polypus forceps, but tlie groAvtli soon returned. A second operation Avas performed, but death took place on the third day from septic miningitis. The post-mortem examination shoAved that the cril)riform plate had been absorbed by the pressure of the growth which had come directly in contact Avith the dura mater. The cause of death Avas a small rent in the membrane. The tumour Avas papillary in structure, and