1149 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS—ATROPJJY. both sides produces sterility. In 19 such cases he found spermatozoa absent from tlie semen, and the patients consequently incapable of procreation, although the appearance of the testes and of their secretion was scarcely altered, and the virile powers of the patients remained unimpaired. Curling also men- tions several such cases, and points out the necessity of continuing the treat- ment of epididymitis until the last trace of induration has disappeared. At a later period, treatment is almost useless. Subacute Orchitis usually comes on with the same symptoms, though in a less marked form than in the acute variety. The swelling, however, is con- siderable, though of a softer kind. When the disease is chronic, the testis often becomes permanently enlarged and hardened, assuming an oval shape, being smooth, heavy, and uniformly .expanded, with a sensation of Aveight, dragging, and severe pain, and a good deal of tenderness on pressure. This form of orchitis occasionally occurs in old people. Orchitis may occur idiopathically, Avithout any assignable cause in the Avay of external injury or local irritation in the urethra or prostate. This form of the disease is most common in middle-aged men, and more especially in those who are gouty. In fact the disease is in all probability one of the many local foims of gouty inflammation. It is not very acute but lingering, liable to recun-ence, and to be followed either by hydi’ocele or chronic indurations of the epididymis. Atrophy of the Testis as a consequence of Inflammation is more liable to follow the orchitis of mumps in young men above the age of puberty than any other inflammatory alfection of the organ. It is remarkable how rapid and hoAv complete the wasting of the testis Avill be in these cases. A few AA'eeks after the subsidence of the inflammation the testis will be found to be shrimk away, so as to form a small soft mass not larger than a filbert. Atrophy of the testis may sometimes gradually ensue also as a result of chronic epididymitis, and the consequent induration of this structiuv. Strangulation of the Avascular supply to the testis occurs, and the AAdiole organ at last wastes so as to leaA^e nothing but a small hardened mass in the scrotum. Treatment.—The treatment of Acutely Inflamed Testicle, Avhether local or constitutional, is essentially antiphlogistic. The patient should be kept in bed Avith the testis raised on a small pilloAv between the thighs, and hot fomen- tations diligently applied. At the same time the swollen gland may be painted Avith an ointment composed of equal parts of glycerine and belladonna. This treatment will usually be found to give the patient most relief; but if the case be seen A^ery early, before much sAvelling has taken place, the application f»f cold by means of Leiter’s tubes (Vol. I., p. 197) or Otis’s coil may some- times cut the inflammation short and give immediate relief. Local blood- letting is often of great seiwice when there is much pain. It is best carried out by puncturing the veins of the scrotum—a far better method than apj)Iying leeches, the bites of Avhicli are apt to become irritated. This little operation may be veiy effectually done by directing the patient to stand uj), and (o foment the scrotum for a fcAv minutes Avith a hot sponge, so as to distend the veins ; these may then be punctured at various points with a flue lancet, and the parts well fomented afterwards, so as to encourage the flow of blood. In this Avay six or eight ounces may he taken in the course of a few minute.s ;