525 TALIPES CALCANEUS AND VARUS. E I depressed, the toes and anterior part of the Ibot being elevated (Fig. G42); I it is usually, 1 believe, congenital—in one case under iny care, however, I that of a girl twelve }’’ears of age, it was acquired. It arises from contraction iof the extensors consequent upon loss of power in the flexors. It is sometimes met with in cases of spina bifida. Treatment.—In order to bring down the foot, the tibialis anticus, the ex- tensor communis, the extensor pollicis, and the peroneus tertius tendons, may \ all require to be divided as they pass over the dorsum ; a straight splint should I then be applied, and the foot drawn down to it. A minor degree of this I aftection consists in a peculiar projection upwards of one or two of the toes, ! associated with some tension of the extensor tendons ; by dividing this, and I keeping the foot on a fiat splint, the deformity may commonly be corrected. In some cases, however, the toe is so prominent, and the contiguous ones are squeezed under it in such a manner, that the foot is completely crippled, and 1 amputation of the displaced digit is required in order to restore the utility of the member. Talipes Varus.—In this deformity the foot is twisted inwards, the inner side of the sole is raised, and the sole is contracted ; the patient walking on the outer side of the foot, where the skin covering the tarsal end of the fifth Fig. 643.—Talipes Varus. Fig. 644.—Bones in Talipes Varus. metatarsal bone often becomes excessively dense and firm, and a bursa occa- sionally fonns (Fig. G43). In most cases there is some elevation of the heel, the affection partaking somewhat of the character of talipes equinus. It is the most common form of congenital deformity, both feet being found simi- larly affected ; liut it may be uon-congenital, dependent on infantile paralysis of the exteirsoi-s, and then is often limited to one foot. The Treatment consists in the successive division of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and tibialis posticus, which arc the muscles principally at fault. After these have been cut across, the tendo Achillis should be divided ; but its section should be made last, as it steadies the foot, and thus facilitates the division of the tibial tendons. Some Surgeons delay division of the tendo Achilles for some weeks, till the lateral disjdacement of the foot has been remedied. In most cases the plantar fascia is contracted, and requires division wherever it feels tense and projecting. In the section of the tibialis posticus tendon behind the ankle, there is much danger of wounding the posterior til)ial artery, which lies close to it.