505 CLUB-HAND—DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. and pronatioii, ifc was interesting to observe that, when the fingers were ex- tended, the wrist became flexed, and when the wrist was extended the fingers became bent in. In these cases change of occupation, friction, and galvanism, with the use of a straight splint, were advantageously resorted to, a cure being eventually effected. Paralysis of the Extensors and Supinators, owing to injury of the musculo-spiral nerve consequent on fracture of the humerus, with or without tonic contraction of the flexors and pronators, has been described at page 573, Yol. I. Club-hand.—A deformity resembling club-foot is occasionally, though rarely, met with in the hand. The contraction may occur in two directions ; either in the sense of preternatural flexion, or in that of abnormal extension of the member. It has been described by Cruveilhier, Yoillermier, and Smith of Dublin. In most of the cases that have been met with, there was a certain amount of deformity of the lower end of the radius, with congenital dislocation of the wrist; and in Smith’s case there Avas an accessory semilunar bone in the carpus. Little, if anything, can be done by surgery for the relief of this deformity ; though some benefit might possibly result from the division of any tendons that were preternaturally tense. Arthritis Deformans or Rheumatoid Arthritis of the hand is a common affection. In this condition, the fingers Avhich are thickened and stiffened are partially bent towards the palm, and at the same time turned towards the ubiar side. The articulations are swollen, and in the earlier stages painful. The disease rarely occurs before middle age. It is more common in elderly people, and especially those of the labouring class, whose hands have been much exposed to the weather, with the fingers bent as in holding reins or agi’icultural implements. The deformity is permanent and incurable. Contraction of the Fingers.—One or more fingers may be bent in con- sequence of injury of the flexor tendons ; the skin and fascial structures of the palm remaining sound with the exception of some cicatricial tissue. Such a contraction is incurable, as a portion of the tendon has probably sloughed away. In the true digital contraction, commonly called Duipuylrevb s contrac- tion, its pathology having been pointed out by that great Surgeon in 1832, the tendons and their sheaths are unaffected, the deformity being due to changes taking place in the fascial structures outside them. Most commonly this commences in the. little finger, and thence gradually extends to the ring and middle fingers, which become so forcibly and firmly curved inwards, that their extension is not practicable. This deformity results usually from frequent and continued pressure on the palm of the hand, as in leaning on a round- ended stick in walking, or in those trades in which an instrument is pressed into the hollow of the hand. It occurs, however, in persons in the prime of life Avithout any apparent exciting cause. In such cases I have always found it associated Avith a rheumatic or gouty diathesis. On examin- ing the contracted fingers, projecting ridges Avill be felt extending from the palm to their anterior aspects ; and on endeavouring to straighten them, these ridges will be found to become stretched, and the palmar fascia to be rendered tense. The skin coA’ering these fascial ridges is at first free, but after a time becomes adherent to them. >So firmly are the fingers contracted, that by no effort can they l)c extended. Palholoyy.—'I’o Dupuytren avc owe our knowledge of the true pathology of