172 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. is distinctly defined and limited, while that of an abscess never is. Aneurism of the internal carotid has been found hySyme to simulate very closely of the tonsils. Tumours of various kinds—cai’cinomatous, fatty, and fibrous—may occur in the neck, and cause some little embarrassment in the diagnosis from aneurism ; thus Listranc, O’lleilly, and Kerr of Aberdeen have recorded cases in which the artery has been ligatured in such cases by mistake for aneurism. The diagnosis of such tumours as these must be effected on ordinary principles. I have in several instances met Avith a small, hard, distinctly circumscribed tumour lying directly upon the carotid artery, and apparently connected with it, and receiving pulsation from it, usually produced by a fit of coughing or laughing. This tumour, with the true nature of Avhich I am unacquainted, remains stationary, and does not require any operative interference. The thyroid body is not unfrequently the seat of enlargements, that have been mistaken for aneurism. These consist chiefly in a circumscribed enlargement of one lobe of the gland, which extends laterally over the common carotid, and receives pulsation from it. This kind of bronchocele may be diagnosed from aneurism by the communicated pulsation in it ceasing when it is raised from the artery. The most puzzling cases, however, and those ill which mistakes may most easily be made, are instances of jndsatmg hronchocele, in which these tumours have an active and independent pulsation or thrill. In these instances, however, there are three points that will almost invariably enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. Thus the tumour, although principally confined to one lateral lobe, always affects the isthmus more or less. Then again, in bronchocele, that portion of the tumour is most firmly fixed which stretches towards the mesial line ; whilst in carotid aneurism the firmest attachment is under the sterno-mastoid muscle. The third point of difference is that, on desiring the patient to make an effort at deglutition, the enlarged thyroid body moves with the larynx and trachea. Cysts in the thyroid body are of more common occurrence than pulsating bronchoceles, and sometimes equally difficult of diagnosis. Dupuytren has pointed out that, when these cysts are tapped, the pulsation often becomes stronger, and the fluid, AAdiich on first flowing is serous, may at last become pure arterial blood, so that the Surgeon may suspect that he has punctured an aneurism. Treatment.—Digital Compression has of late years been successfully employed for the treatment of carotid aneurism. A case of aneurism of the common carotid artery, cured by intermittent digital compression, has been recorded by Rouge of Lausanne. The patient was a male, aged 68. Com- pression was made by placing the thumb against the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid and the next three fingers under the posterior edge of the muscle ; the artery Avas thus seized and compressed. This avoided any pres- sm’e on the pneumogastric nei’A^e, which was supposed to be the cause of the pain usually produced by attempts to compress the carotid. The compression Avas applied for seventeen days during seven or eight horns each day ; and at the end of the time the man Avas cm'ed. In addition to this. Holmes has col- lected four successful cases by Sheppard, Kerr, Humphry, and Gay, and two unsuccessful by De Castro and Delore. The pressure should, if possible, be applied above the transA^erse process of the sixth cerA’ical veretcbra, so as to avoid compressing the vertebral artery at the same time. r,l . li ; i ; 01