1099 ACCIDENTS ATTENDING SIMPLE DILATATION. f- iJlHaeinorrliage, ^Yllich is sometimes rather profuse, may follow the introdiic- i>on of a catheter, especially if the stricture be congestive, and the instrument iployed small. It generally ceases of itself; but, if it be troublesome, the )plication of cold will check it. The Inflammation about the urethra and in the testes that occasionally ;cui-s during the treatment of stricture, is best guarded against by not using ') large catheters, and by directing the patient to abstain from much exercise ;iring the time of their introduction. False Passages are occasioned by the instrument passing out of the urethra trough its coats into the surrounding tissues. They are especially apt to >X5ur in tight bridle-strictures, when a small instrument is being used, and ore especially if the direction of the constriction be somewhat oblique, so lat the point of the sound is thrown against the side of the canal (Fig. 921). he extent and situation of a false passage necessarily vary according to the osition of the stricture ; and the danger is usually in proportion to its depth, he false passage usually takes a direction doAvnwards and to one side of the ■rethi’a. If the strictiu’e be far forward, it may rim in the corpus spon- iiosum ; but if it be in the usual'situation, it may perforate the lateral lobe ■ the prostate, or run between this and the rectum, being unable to extend jpwards on account of the rigid nature of the structures in this situation. i7hen the false passage merely perforates the corpus spongiosum, running parallel to the urethra, and opening again into the canal, or when, perforating ' portion of the prostate, it enters the bladder, it is not necessarily attended ith much danger ; but when it enters the areolar tissue between the bladder nd the rectum, breaking up this structure to a great extent, admitting urine ito the recto-vesical space and about the neck of the bladder, then the most 3riou8 consequences, such as inflammation and abscess in this neighbourhood, rre apt to ensue, which may not unlikely be followed by the death of the |i>atient. At the moment when a false passage is made during the introduction of an nostrument, by the Surgeon using too much force or pressing in the wrong irection, he feels the point make a sudden slij), which the plane of the handle nows to be to one side of the m-ethra. The patient complains of severe pain, nd is often conscious of a laceration ; there is a grating or rough sensation ommunicated by the tissues against which the instrument has passed ; and hough it have entered deeply, it will be found not to have reached the bladder. )n the Surgeon introducing his finger into the rectum, he probably feels the )oint of the instrument in the areolar tissue between the gut and the bladder ; »n withdrawing it, it will be found covered with blood, and there will be free asemorrhage from the urethra. The Surgeon knows when he has entered an old false passage by the change hat takes place in the direction of the instrument, by its not reaching the )ladder and by the rough sensation communicated to it, very different from hat afforded by the smooth lining of the urethra. The patient is often con- icious of the existence and of the entry of the instrument into the false passage, tind will warn the Surgeon of it. If the Surgeon be aware that he has made a false passage, he should, if ^x)ssible, at the time of the accident pass a catheter into the bladder, md leave it there for a few days until the laceration has healed. If there (x; an old false passage he must be careful, by keeping the point of the iiistru- 4