DEFORMITIES. 514 Ill examining a ease of conti’actioii of tlie knee-joint, tiie patient should be placed on his face, with the thigh extended. Tlie leg on tlie affected side will then be raised more or less perpcndicnlarly, and tlie amount of contraction may be judged of by the angle that it forms with the ‘thigh. The degree of mobility also may readily be ascertained. In this way a more correct idea of the amount of contraction can be obtained tlrnii by examining the patient whilst lying on the back, when, in conseijuence of the thigh being flexed on the abdomen, the extent of the angular deformity cannot be so well de- termined. Causes.—Contraction of the knee-joint may arise from a great variety of pathological conditions. Some of these are altogether external to the joint, being seated in the nerves or muscles of the limb ; whilst others, and the majority, consist in some morbid change that has taken place within the joint itself in its ligamentous or osseous structures. As the contraction depends on such very varied causes, the Treatment, having reference to the cause as well as to the actual morbid conditions, must be equally diversified. Contraction from Nervous Irritation is usuallv associated with general hysteria, of which it is but a local symptom, and commonly occurs in girls and young women. In this form of contraction there is no evidence of disease within the joint ; no redness, swelling, or other sign of inflammation ; but there is great pain and tenderness about it. This pain, as usual in hysterical cases, is superficial and cutaneous. It is not confined to the articulation, but radiates to some distance beyond it. Any attempt at straightening the limb not only greatly increases the pain, but also calls the adjoining muscles into such forcible action that it is impossible to improve the position. These local symptoms are connected with the ordinary signs of a hysterical tempera- ment, with spinal irritation, and often with uterine derangement. The Treatment of these cases of hysterical contraction of the knee is simple. The fii’st thing to be done is to straighten the limb; This can be effected onlv by putting the patient under the influence of an angesthetic, when, all sensibility being suspended, the muscular opposition, which is partly voluntary, and no doubt in some measure reflex, is no longer called into action, and the limb falls of its own accord almost into the straight position, in which it must be retained by means of a back splint, lest the retraction recur with retm-ning consciousness ; and then, the hysterical condition being removed by treatment calculated to improve the general health, the tendency to the return of the deformity will be obviated. We occasionally see contraction of the knee from spasmodic action of the hamstrings, produced by some irritation applied to the nerves at a distance from the part. Just as spasm of the internal rectus muscle of the eye occasions squint, so long as the irritation that gives rise to the spasm lasts; so there may be spasm of the hamstrings, with contraction of the knee as a consequence. Most commonly, hoAvever, the joint itself is at fault, either in consequence of subacute inflammation within it, or of the permanent changes induced by former inflammatory attacks. Contraction from Inflammation of the Knee.—In inflammation of the knee, the patient naturally and instinctively places the limb in the semiflexed position, as being that in which there is least tension exercised on the structures that enter into the joint, and consequently that which is