DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 434 on each side of the head. Gentle weight extension bj means of a collar holding- on the chin and occiput attached to a cord passing through a pulley at the head of the bed is often useful for relieving pain, AVhen the acute symptoms subside, an apparatus, such as is represented in Fig, 331, Vol. I., may be aj>plied. Retro-pharyngeal abscess is a serious complication, for Avhen it bursts into the pharynx it empties itself imperfectly, and decomposition of the dis- charges ensues, thus perpetuating the disease. To avoid this J. Chiene of Edinburgh recommends that it should be opened early, when possible, by an incision made behind the sterno-mastoid. The carotid A'essels and pneumo- gastric nerve must be pushed forwards without injuring the sheath of fascia in which they are enclosed. The abscess can thus be treated antiseptically. In| this way he successfully treated a large abscess containing eight ounces of pus.! O0?HEB DISEASES OP THE SPINE. Gummata of the Spine.—Cases of partial destruction of the bodies of) the vertebras by the formation of syphilitic gummata commencing beneath the periosteum have been recorded. The disease closely resembles ordinary caries of the spine in its symptoms, and the diagnosis can be made only by the history, and the co-existence of other syphilitic affections. The treatment is I mechanical support in addition to the ordinary internal remedies. Rheumatoid Arthritis may affect the spine. The intei’A^ertebral discs] atrophy and bony out-growths form from the bodies which may bridge over 1 the spaces betAveen them. The natural movements are tfius restricted. , Beyond this it causes no very definite symptoms, and it requires no special! treatment. Tumours of the Spine.—The bodies of the vertebrse are not uncommonly?! the seat of secondary cancerous growths. Primary sarcomata also are occa- sionally met with. The symptoms are pain, usually very severe, localized ati| one spot in the spine, folloAved after a time by some excurvation. Theif tumour projects sooner or later, if the patient survives sufficiently long, intoi the spinal canal and compresses the cord, causing paraplegia. Except in cases j in Avhich the tumour is secondary the diagnosis from dry caries is scarcely! possible. Early superA-'ention of paraplegia, with slight excurvation, in al patient past middle life, would, however, suggest the presence of a tumour.