DIFFICULTIES AND ACCIDENTS IN TRACHEOTOMY. 691 cannot be thrust into it with safety. In order to do this with the least risk, a sharp-pointed hook should be passed between two of the rings, and the tul)e, being thus fixed, opened by cutting upwards (Fig. Or the hook, being grooved along its convexity, as Edwards recommends (Fig. 7;')7), is to be intro- duced under the cricoid cartilage, and the air-tube pulled up and opened by sliding the scalpel along the groove of this hook-director. I have found it Fig. 75S.—Cutting Tmchea-liook. advantageous in some cases to open the trachea with a cutting hook, such as is here represented (Fig. 758). By means of an instrument of this kind, the trachea is first fixed and then divided without danger to the patient. The only accident likely to happen at this stage of the operation is wound )f the oesophagus. This is avoided by steadying the wrist on the sternum while making the incision, by drawing the trachea well forward with the sharp look, and by holding the knife by the blade so that not more than half an nch projects beyond the finger and thumb. I have heard of a case in which, •‘or want of these precautions, not only was the oesophagus wounded, but at ;he post-mortem examination the mark of the knife was found upon the bodies )f three of the cervical vertebrae. 4. After the trachea has been opened, the next point is to Introduce a proper Tube. In doing this, special care must be taken not to push the tube nto a sort of pouch which always exists at the lower angle of the wound, between he trachea and the deep fiiscia of the neck. This error is not only embarrassing ig. 7')0.—Hivalve TuImj closed. Fig. 700.—Uivalve Tube with Fig. 701.—Triu-hoa-dilator. Camiulu introduced. 1 the highest degree to the Surgeon, but dangerous to the patient by the delay ' / occasions, by the compre.ssion exercised on the trachea below the opening , ito it, and by the suction of blond into the aperture in the air-tube. It is est avoided by expanding the tracheal opening with the dilator (Fig. 701), nd jiassing the tulie hetween the blades of that instrument, or by adopting fie method already tlescribed of inserting the sharp hook parallel to the line f incision instead of above it. In passing the tube into the trachea some Y Y 2