DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. J094 and if the signs of congestion be well marked, a few leeches may l)e a])plied to the perinmnm. Occasionally blisters over the seat of stricture, when it can be clearly felt from without, may be of service. By these means alone, a stricture which at first seemed almost impermeable may be so far relieved as to take a No. 4 or 5 catheter. 1. Gradual Mechanical Dilatation, as it is erroneously termed, is the usual and certainly the most successful mode of treating ordinary strictures ; but it is not the mere stretching or forcible dilatation of the stricture that cures it. The means employed to produce dilatation tend to promote the absorption of chronic inflammatory products in and underneath the mucous membrane, which especially constitute the stricture. The instruments that are used for dilatation are either metallic, such as i. silver catheters, steel sounds, or plated bougies ; or made of some soft and yielding material, as gum-elastic catheters, catgut, whalebone, or elastic bougies. Though each Surgeon will mostly prefer one kind of instrument to another, it is well not to be too exclusive in the use of any one ; for it will || be found in particular strictures and certain constitutions that it is advan- |! tageous to depart from the ordinary practice, and that the Sm’geon may m modify with great benefit to his patient the mechanical means that he adopts. f| As a general rule, if the stricture can be treated from the first by soft instru- | ments, so much the better. They cause less pain and irritation, and the i danger of making false passages is avoided. "When the stricture is tight, f cartilaginous and of old standing it is, however, frequently impossible to pass any soft instrument through it, and then a well-made steel bougie or a silver , catheter must be used. When once dilatation has been carried to a certain point, for instance to the introduction of a No. 5 catheter, then soft instru- ments can always be employed if preferred ; but at this stage of the treatment, when the risk of making a false passage is very small, conical steel bougies will in many cases be found not only more efficient but quite as comfortable [; to the patient. | The best soft instruments are the conical bougies and catheters Avith bulboics | e7ids (Figs. 926 and 927). Their introduction excites far less imtation and pain, with much less likelihood of bleeding from a congested mucous membrane, than Fig. 926.—Conical Bulbous Bougie. does that of metallic or even gum-elastic instruments. In most cases of ordinary stricture they wiU be found to be the safest and most agreeable in- Fig. 927.—Conical Bulbous Catheter. struments to use. They will often glide through a tight irritable stricture, when all other instruments, especially metallic ones, fail to jiass. Rfilifcn'm bougie made of whale-bone, gum-elastic or catgut, may sometimes be passed through a very narrow stricture, when every other instrument fails