VARIETIES OF CATARRH OF MIDDLE EAR. 539 intense ear-ache radiating over the side of the head. Noises and tlirohhing in the ear are seldom absent, E.xamination of the ear shows the external meatus clear, some redness of the membrana tympani, with bulging in some cases. It left unrelieved the membrane occasionally perforates, after which cure takes place and the aperture heals, or the disease may become chronic. The Treatment in mild cases consists of the application of leeches behind the ear, and hot fomentations externally. At the same time the air should be blown into the tympanum at intervals by means of Politzer’s bag ; the mucus will usually escape when the air regurgitates from the cavity. If there is much bulging and acute pain, relief can be obtained more surely, and the risk of permanent damage to the ear avoided by puncturing the membrane by means of a small lancet-shaped knife specially constructed for this purpose, or a cataract needle. This operation is easy of performance ; the speculum having been passed, and a good view of the membrane obtained, the puncture is to be made at the lower part of the membrane behind the handle of the malleus. The mucus may then be blown out by means of air-douches from Politzer’s bag, or through the Eustachian catheter. The operation is usually followed by complete relief, and the small puncture soon heals, leaving the hearing unimpaired. Chronic Non-Pnrnlent Catarrh is a very common disease and a frequent cause of deafness. Two varieties are described—the dry and moist. Dry catarrh is a term applied to a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane unaccompanied by any excess of secretion. It leads to thickening of the mucous membrane, and finally causes deafness from immobility of the ossicles. In moist catan-h there are swelling and hypermmia with excessive secretion. It often affects the Eustachian tube chiefly, and may lead to its contraction or closure. If this takes place, the air in the tympanum soon becomes absorbed, and the membrane becomes abnormally concave. Noises in the ears and occasional pain are common. It is most commonly associated with pharyngeal cataiTh. This condition is the common cause of so-called Eustachian or throat deafness. The treatment of chronic catarrh is usually not very satisfactory. The general health must be attended to, and the catarrh of the pharynx relieved by astringent applications, as nitrate of silver, glycerine of tannin, &c. At the same time the air must be blown into the tympanum at intervals by Politzer’s bag, the Eustachian catheter, or by forced expiration with the nostrils closed. By this means the strain on the membrane is relieved and the mucus allowed to escape. Astringent injections into the tympanum by means of the catheter have been used, but their benefit is somewhat uncertain. Acute Purulent Catarrh is commonly a sequela of scarlet fever or measles. The symptoms may be acute like those of the acute non-purulent form already described, or jxjrforation of the membrane may occur without any acute symptoms having manifested themselves, the first symptom being the discharge from the ear. After the pus has thus found exit the opening in the membrane may close and recovery take place, but in scrofulous children the suppuration may become chronic. It is very important in all cases of scarlet fever or measles, especially in scrofulous children, to keep a careful watch on the ear, as in many cases the complete destruction of the membrana tympani and loss of the ossicles might be prevented by early incision. Chronic Purulent Catarrh may arise as a sequel of acute inflainmn- tion of the middle ear, or as the result of extension from without in dilFuse