507 TREATMENT OF DUrUYTREN'S CONTRACTION. incisions near to this line, no clanger to tliis artery need be feared. Should it be found to be impossible to straighten the fingers with such limited incisions, or should the skin be firmly adherent to the subjacent fibrous band, it has been recommended to make a crucial incision through the skin, to dissect the flap back, divide or dissect off the fascial bands from the sheaths of the tendons, and straighten the fingers. As the flexor tendons are not primarily affected, they must not be divided. After the operation, the hand should be placed on a digitated splint and the fingers kept extended. Adams recognizing the true pathology of this affection (Fig. G24), has devised and practised a successful means of remedying it by subcutaneous operation, lie justly deprecates in such cases all operation by open wound. The plan adopted by Adams consists in making multiple subcutaneous divisions of the fascia and its digital prolongations. For this purpose he uses the smallest possible tenotome—little larger than a cataract-needle ; vuth this instrument about four punctures and subcutaneous incisions are made to each finger, not operating on more than one or two fingers at a time. The first puncture is made in the palm just above the transverse flexion- crease at a point where the skin is least adherent. By the second puncture, the same cord should be divided .between the flexion-crease and the web of the fingers. The third and fourth punctures should be made so as to divide the digital prolon- gations of the fascia, care being taken not to wound the digital vessels or nerves. Immediate extension is then made, and the fingers kept straight on a padded metal splint. Contradion or lend of the finger lachwards is of very i*are occimrence. I have seen only one such case in a lady in whom the little finger of one hand had a crescentic curve backwards, the ring-finger was also slightly affected. This con- dition, which was permanent for many years, obstinately resisting all treatment, mechanical and constitutional, appeared to be due to chronic neuritis of the cords of the brachial plexus, consequent on a fall on the back of the head and neck. Congenital Deformities of the Fingers and Hand are frequently met with. 1. The most common form consists in a Supernumerary Finger or Fingers. These are of several different kinds. There is, in the fii’st place, that fonn of supernumerary finger in which the added digit appears to be simply a continuation of the natural series, so that there are six fingers instead of five. 8even have been met with ; and Morand describes a hand having a thumb and six well-formed though somewhat shortened fingers. The super- numerary finger is usually atrophied and shorter than the rest. It is very common in these cases to find both hands equally provided with additional fingers, and the feet with one or more supernumerary toes. 2. The Thumb is liable to two malformations—a supernumerary one being in some cases added ; in others, the digit being bifid. In the supernumerary thumb (Fig. C2o), it will usually be found that there are two small and deformed Fig. 624.—Dupuj'tren’s Contraction (after Adams).