URINARY CALCULUS AND IJTHOTRITY. 1020 the urethra, and tliat is connected with it only by a small aperture. I have removed a stone of this kind composed of triple phosjdiate, weighing an ounce and about the size of a walnut, smooth and rounded, from a ])oiiit lying between the uj^per wall of the urethra and the symphysis pubis, in a clergyman who had for many years suffered from very tight strictui-e. One of the most remarkable instances of this kind is represented in the annexed cut (Fig. 904), taken from a drawing in Sir li. Carswell’s collection at University College. The stone here was of very large size—equal in bulk to two horse-chestnuts. Symptoms.—In the adult, the presence of a calculus in the urethra may be suspected by the difficulty that is occasioned in micturition, and ascertained by the possibility of feeling the stone through the walls of the canal, or of detecting it by intro- ducing a sound into the urethra. In boys, impac- tion of calculus in the urethra is almost the sole cause of retention of urine. When called, there- fore, to a child suffering from this condition, we should always at once suspect calculus as being the cause, and examine the urethra from the peringeum or rectum, and by the introduction of a sound. Treatment.—The treatment of urethral calculus will vary in the adult and in the child. In the adult, urethral calculi may be removed by extrac- tion, incision, or lithotrity. When situated towards the anterior part of the canal, a urethral calculus may frequently be extracted by quietly working the stone forwards between the finger and thumb, the patient being under chloroform. Should this plan not succeed, it may be removed by passing a long and very narrow-bladed pair of forceps down to it, by which it is seized and di’awn fonvards ; occasionally, when it has reached the navicular fossa, it will not pass through the urethral orifice unless this be enlarged by incision with a probe-pointed bistouiy. If the calculus be too large to be extracted in this way, and appear to be firmly fixed, an incision may be made down upon it, through the urethra, by which it may be removed. It is a good rule not to make this incision in any part of the m’ethra anterior to the scrotum ; for, in consequence of the coverings of the penile portion of the urethra being very thin, the aperture will probably not close, but a fistulous opening will be left. When the stone is situated in the scrotal portion of the urethra, there would be some risk of abscess and of uruiary infiltration if the incision were made through the lax tissues of the scrotum. Hence it is better, if possible, to push the stone back towards the membranous portion of the canal, to cut down upon it, and extract it through the perinaeum by an incision in the mesial line. This operation may readily be done by passing a staff, grooved along its convexity, or an ordinary director, as far as the calculus, and making an incision u]>on the end of it, so as to lay open the urethra ; the staff is then removed, and the calculus extracted by means of a slender pair of forceps. A catheter should next be passed into the bladder, and retained there for a few days, in order to lessen the tendency to the formation of urinary fistula. Should it not Fig. 904.—Extra-uretliral Calculus.