8io SPECIAL IIERNLE. the scrotum, and may be distino-uished by its reducil)ility and impulse on couo’hiiio-. Ifc sometimes lia])pens, as in a ease wiiicli once fell under my ob- servation, that a hydrocele of ihe cord is associaied wiih one of the tunica vayinalis and a hernia; in such circumstances, the diao-nosis requires a little care, but may be effected readily ei¥)ugh by se]jarately determinin'^ the characters of the different swellings. Z>. Varicocele. Here the diagnosis may be effected in the way pointed out by Sir A. Cooper. The patient should be placed in the re- cumbent position, and the swelling reduced; the Surgeon then presses upon the external ring with his fingers, taking care to cover the whole of it, and desires the patient to stand up. If it be a hernia, the tumour cannot descend; but if it be a varicocele, it will speedily reappear whilst ihe \wcssure is heiny Iceyl the blood being conveyed into it through the spermatic arteries, c. Tumours of the Testis. These may be distinguished from hernia by their solid feel, I rounded shape, by the absence of all impulse on coughing, and, especially, by the cord being felt free and clear above them, and the inguinal canal unoccupied. d. Hccmatocele of the Tunica Vayincdis. Here the cause of the swelling, its \ oval shape, opacity, solid feel, the absence of impulse on coughing, and |j the defined characters of the cord, will enable the Surgeon to make the 2j diagnosis. Tx’eatment.—When inguinal hernia is reducible, the rupture must be kept up by a well-made truss, the pad of which, of an oval shape, should press not only upon the external ring, but upon the whole length of the canal. It is in i this form of hernia that the various operations for the radical cure are most applicable. When it is irreducible, and of large size, nothing can be done beyond supporting it in a bag-truss. Operation.—When the hernia is strangulated, if the taxis properly employed in the direction of the canal have failed, the operation must be perfonned in the following Avay. The bladder having been emptied and the pubes shaved, the patient should be brought to the edge of the bed ; and the Surgeon, I standing between his legs, and having the skin covering the external rmg well j pinched up, dWides the fold in the usual Avay, by an incision two inches in j length, commencing about half an inch above the external abdominal ring, i Should any spouting vessel, as the external pudic, be dhn'ded in this incision, it had better be ligatured. The Surgeon then proceeds with the section j through the subcutaneous structures ; he Avill, in many cases, find the superficial fascia considerably thickened, particularly if the patient have long worn a truss. ; He divides this structure in the line of the external incision, and then exposes j the intercolumnar fascia, Avhich will also generally be found thickened, and incorporated with the superficial fascia. In many cases, the intercolumnar i fibres Avill be found condensed into a thick and broad fillet, which limits the , ) finther extension of the ring, and produces an evident constriction upon the ! i neck of a large inguinal hernia. An opening should be careftilly made into > this fascia, a grooved director passed under the edge of the ring, and this slit i up. In some cases, though but very rarely, it Avill noAV be found that the hernia li may be reduced, its strangulation depending on the constriction of the margins f of this aperture ; most commonly, hoAvever, the stricture is situated deeper than 4 this. The cremasteric fascia, Avhich is generally considerably thickened, is now ? exposed, Avhen its fibres will be found to form a kind of reticulated mesh OAcr f the hernial tumour. This structure must be carefully divided upon a director. i when the transA’orsalis fascia and subserous areolar tissue, ov fascia propna, will 11 I