ANEURISM. 114 i deut may arise from the intrinsic difficulties of the diagnosis, is evident from the fact that it luis happened to such Surgeons as Desault, Pelletan, Dupuytren, Pirogoff, and many othei-s. I have once seen this accident occur to a Surgeon of considerable experience, who, mistaking a diffused popliteal aneurism for au abscess, opened it with a bistoiuy, but finding no pus, applied a ix)ultice; alarming luemorrhage ensued in about forty hours, and 1 amputated the thigh on the second day after this untoward occurrence. The difficulty in diagnosis is especially apt to occur in those aneurisms which, having become diffused, have ceased to pulsate, have no bruit, are elastic, softened, and diffluent to the feel, and in which the skin has Ijecome reddened and inflamed by pressure from within. It is only by careful atten- tion to the history of the case, and by skilful manipulation, that the true nature of the tumoiu’ can be made out. But an aneurism may actually become associated with au abscess in one or two ways. Thus it may suppurate, the inflammation taking place in the areolar tissue around it, with swelling, redness, cedema, and heat of the integumeutal structures, increase of size in the tumour, and probably solidification of it. If this abscess be opened or allowed to bm’st, dark grumous pus will escape, followed by coagula and masses of broken down decolourized fibriue, and sometimes accompanied, but more usually followed after a lapse of some hom*s, by a free and perhaps fiital discharge of florid blood. Another form of combination between abscesses and aneurism consists in the opening of an ai’tery by ulceration into the cavity of an abscess, so that the blood is projected directly into this from the opened vessel. In cases of this kind—of which the instance that occurred to Liston is a good example— we have the ordinary signs of abscess, usually of a chi’onic character, to which those of an aneurism are generally superadded suddenly, with gieat increase in the bulk of the tumour. This accident has been observed chiefly in abscess of the neck, opening up a communication with the carotid artery. With rheumatism and neuralgia it would at first appear to be difficult to confound an aneurism, but in practice it is not so. I have known several cases in which the lancinating pains of aneimism, more especially when the tumour was internal, have been mistaken and treated for rheumatic or neuralgic affections ; and I have even known the pam occasioned by the presence of a large aneurism of the thigh treated for several weeks as rheumatism. In a large proportion of popliteal aneurisms the patient first presents himself complaining of rheumatic pains in the knee ; in fact so frequently is this the case that it is a good rule whenever a patient complains of obscure pain in that joint, to examine the ham for an aneurism as the first step in making a diagnosis. In such cases as these, it is of course obvious that a little care and proper examination will usually serve to enable the Surgeon to avoid an error. The aneurismal may be distinguished from the rheumatic pain by its having a twofold character—being both lancinating and intennittent, as well as continuous, aching, and burning. When this kind of pain is persistent, especially about the back, the side ot the head and neck, or arm, it ought always to cause the Surgeon’s attention to be directed to the condition of the neighbouring large vessels. Terminations.—Spontaneous Cure of an aneurism is of very rare occur- rence. The manner in which it happens has been especially and ably studied by Hodgson, and more recently by Bellingham; and the patholog}" of this i i I