619 OPERATIOX FOR DOUBLE HARE-LIP. accurately fitted upou it. Should, as often happens in single as well as in double hare-lip, one of the lateral segments be tied down to the gum and alveolus by a doubling of mucous membrane, this must be freely divided, and the portion of lip, with perhaps the coi'respondiiig ala of the nose, freely dissected up from the osseous structures, so as to admit of its being moved forwards without too much traction being put upon it. In those cases in which the intermaxillary portion is projecting, and attached to and fused with the columiia of the nose, as in Figs. 709 and 710, I have performed the following operation with great success. 1. The triangular flap of skin covering the intermaxillary portion is dis- sected up as thick as possible. 2. The intermaxillary process is then cut away at its root, which is small and pedunculated, with a pair of scissors. Fig. 700.—Double Hare-lip: Inter- inaxillarj- Portion fixed to Nose. Fig. 710. —Double Hare-lip : Projecting Inter- maxillary Portion. 3. The edges of the lateral fissures are then pared in the usual way. 4. The ■free lower margins of the pared edges are brought together by one hare-lip ■ pin and twisted suture. 5. The leaf-shaped flap is then laid down in the rtriangular hollow left above the pin, and retained there by one or two points ';of silver suture on each side, the gap being thus completely filled up by it. Treatment by Simple Suture.—During several years I have been in the ■habit of treating hare-lip of all kinds, double as well as single, with the simple •nterrupted suture alone, without using any pins. I have in this way treated Host successfully many cases in children, whose ages have varied from a few days to four years, with most satisfactory results, and with less marking of the lip than I have ever seen attend union by moans of the twisted suture. I prefer the simple to the twisted suture as being equally safe, more simple, md followed by less scarring of the lip, provided the case be not too com- plicated, nor associated with very wide fissure in the palate, or with great rprojection of the intermaxillary bones. In these circumstances, the pins ihould be preferred. When the fissure is single, the edges, having been pared in the usual way, ihould be brought together by two points of suture ; the first passed deeply lear the free edge, and in such a way as to compress the cut coronary artery ; he other nearer the na.sal angle. These sutures should be of thick well- waxed dentist’s twist that will not cut out too readily, or, what is better, of iilver wire. A point of fine interrupted suture should then be inserted through he mucous membrane inside the lip. The lip may then be siijiported by wo naiTow strips of plaster, one placed between the sutures, the other between