7 So HERNIA. vertical position whilst the taxis was being-cm ploy eel. Should, however, reduc- tion not ensue, it will be desirable to have recourse at once t<; further means the object of which is, by relaxing the muscles and lessening the bulk of the tumour, to enable the hernia to be ]-educed. Auxiliar3r Measures.—The means to be employed must be modhied ac- cording to the condition of the strangulation, whetlier it be of the active oi- of the passive Icind. If it he acute, the patient may be put into a hot bath, where he may remain for twenty minutes or half an hour, or until he feels faint; and, Avhilst he is in the bath in this condition, the taxis should be employed. Ji‘ it do not succeed, he should bo taken out, wrapped up in blankets, and be i^ut fully under the influence of an ansesthetic. Ether is at the present time usually given, but in some cases it fails to produce perfect muscular relaxation, and chloroform may then be substituted. When the patient is fully anies- thetized, taxis may be tried once again. Should it still fail, operation must be immediately proceeded with. No good can possibly come of delay in these cases, and repeated attempts at taxis should be carefully avoided. If the hernia do not admit of reduction in the early stage of the strangulation, it will necessarily be much less likely to do so -when the parts, squeezed and Ijruised much by manipulation, will have had their congested condition greatly increased. When the strangulation is of a passive character, supervening gTadually in an old hernia, especially of inguinal or umbilical, and occurring in. feeble or elderly people, other measures may, in exceptional cases, be adopted v.flth the view' of lessening the bulk of the tumour ; wfliioh, rather than the tension of the parts, offers the chief object to reduction. In such circumstances, especi- ally when the tumour is large and not very tense, it is wmll to dispense with the hot-bath, which has sometimes a tendency to increase any congestion that may already exist in the hernia ; I have in more than one case seen a strangidated rupture enlarge considerably after the employment of the bath. In such cases, more time may safely be spent in attempts at reduction than in very acutely strangulated hernias. It is a useful practice to commence the treat- ment by the administration of a large enema ; which, by emptying the lowei' bowel, will alter the relations of the abdominal contents, and may materially facilitate the reduction of the tumour. The best enema is one of gruel and castor-oil, with some spirits of turpentine added to it ; it should be injected through a full-sized tube, passed high up into the gut, and w'ith a moderate degTee of force. In administering it, care must be taken that no injury he done to the bowel. It would scarcely be necessary to give such a caution as this, were it not that I w'as summoned, some years ago, by two very excellent practitioners, to see a woman wdth strangulated femoral hernia, to whom an enema of about twm quarts of tepid water had been administered ; and as this had not returned, and did not appear to have gone up the bowel, they sus- pected that it must have passed out of the rectum into the surrounding areolar tissue. As the patient, however, did not seem to be suffering from this cause, and as the symptoms of strangulation were urgent, I operated on the hernia. Death suddenly occurred, apparently from exhaustion, in about eight 110111*5; and, on examining the body, itwms found that the rectum had been perforated, and the fluid injected into the meso-rectum, separating the gut froni the sacrum, whence it had extended into the general siibperitoneal areolar tissue, which contained a quantity of the liquid ; some of the water appeared to huAC entered the pci’itoneal cavity also.