THE ATM EXT OF GANCEli BY OPERATIOX. 739 I conite inunctions, together Avith the internal exhibiton of coninin and morphia, p r hypodermic injections of morphia and atropine, ! In the advanced stages of the disease, hoAvever, when tlie skin is involved, lie pressure is often unbearable, increasing the pain, and acting as a source of I Titation to the patient. In some cases of this kind, in which the slack air- ■ nshion could not be borne, I have seen relief aftbrded by moderate pressure ■ ith thick layers of amadou, supported by an elastic bandage, belladonna or oniimi in powder being dusted on the innermost layer of amadou. A very lin gutta-percha shield, moulded to the part, may sometimes be advan- . igeously applied over this, and kept on by turns of an elastic roller. When iie skin is implicated and very tender, the application of belladonna and lead )tion is of use. 'When the disease has run into an ulcerated stage, the inter- al administration of conium, so as to blunt the sensibility, and the local pplicatiou of eucalyptus oil and iodoform ointment, boracic acid lotion, and olntion of permanganate and potash, to lessen the fetor, together with the ■atery extract of opium or of belladonna, will relieve. In cases of this kind, le application of caustics has been greatly vaunted, and portions of the dseased surface may be cleansed or removed by these means. The employ- lent of the various antiseptic dressings that are familiar to all Surgeons is of luch service in the advanced stages of ulcerated cancer of the breast, removing : ;tor, and lessening the inflammatory irritation occasioned by the decomposi- on of the discharges. C Caustics, applied in accordance with the principles laid down at p. 1039, 'ol. I., may occasionally be advantageously employed in the treatment of . mcer of the breast, or when the patient is alarmed at and positively refuses ) submit to the knife. ( Operation.—The constitutional and ordinary local treatment of cancer of • le breast being thus, at the most, of a palliative character, the question of xration always presents itself at last. The objects proposed are, in the first i ace, by the extirpation of the diseased breast, to prevent constitutional infec- ;on, and thus permanently to free the patient from her necessarily fatal fection ; or, failing in this, to retard the progress of the constitutional •.fection, and thus at least to prolong existence. Hoav far these objects are otained by amputation of the cancerous breast is a subject of important iquiry to the Surgeon. The operation has been discountenanced by many ccellent pathologists ; not so much from any intrinsic danger it may possess, >r, although occasionally fatal from erysipelas or some similar accidental i )mplication, there is nothing specially hazardous about it; nor from its nng now, as formerly, open to the objection of subjecting the patient to ineccssary pain, all suffering during its performance being prevented by lacsthetics, and little inconvenience being experienced at subsequent di’css- igs, which are usually almost painless ; but the great objection lies in the ar that the disease will return and run its course as rapidly after the opera- on as if none had been performed, in some cases perhaps even more rapidly. The principal points in connection Avith the operation appear to resolve leraselves into tAvo questions :—1. In any ciisc of cancer of the breast, may mstitutional infection be prevented by amputation of that organ ; and, if ), under Avhat circumstances Avill this most probably happen ? 2. Although 10 disease may eventually return in the part or elscAvhere, may not excision Test the rapidity of the fatal termination? (Vick p. lOIl seq., Vol. 1.).