896 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. this process may be facilitated by the application of the nitrate of silver through a speculum ani. On the third or fourth day after the operation, the bowels may be opened Avith a dose of castor-oil. In the after-treaiment of the case, care must be taken to prevent the recur- Fig. Slti.—Smith’s Clamp. reuce of those causes that gave rise to the affection in the first instance. After piles have been tied, more particularly if they be seated towards the anterior part of the rectum, there is frequently great irritation set up about the neck of the bladder, so that the patient experiences difficulty in passing his urine, and sometimes suffers from complete retention ; a warm hip bath, and a full dose of hyoscyamus and nitrous ether, will usually relieve this, and enable the urine to pass ; if it fails, a catheter must be passed. In some cases, Avhere the external piles are very large and vascular, and the patient debilitated, the ordinary rule of cutting them off may advantageously be deviated from, and a combination of the treatment by excision and ligature be adopted. In such cases an incision may be made through the integuments merely, and then the piles tied in the course of the groove thus formed. By these means the pain and constitutional disturbance consequent on the inclusion of a portion of the integument in the ligature are avoided, at the same time that the risk of hfemorrhage is not incurred. The treatment of piles by ligature is not altogether devoid of danger in persons of broken constitution. I have more than once known death from pyaemia result in these cases. Smith’s Operation.—Piles may be removed with but little fear of haemorrhage by the method intro- duced by H. Smith, which is as follows. The pile is brought doAvn and seized in a clamp (Fig. 81G), fixed by a few turns of the screAA', and burnt off Avith a Fig. 817.—Aiiingham’s Clamp, cautery. The damp is then sloAidy relaxed, and should any bleeding take place as it becomes loose, it is again tightened, and the cautery applied once more, dhe opeiation is usually folloAved by less pain than the ligature, and is followed by equallj satisfactory results ; haemorrhage is prevented, and cicatrization facilita^d. The Removal of Piles by the Galvanic Ecraseur may easily be effected, the pile being draAvn doAvn with ring-forceps, and its base constiicted by the platinum-Avire of the ecraseur, Avhich, being tightened, cuts off the projecting