r 286 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. bo treated ; if from struma, the general liealth must be improved. By the removal of such causes, the disease will often cease spontaneously, and even undergo cure, more especially in young subjects. Hence, it is well not to be in too gi-eat a hurry to interfere, by operative means, in caries of the small bones of children. I liave often seen cases, especially of caries of the bones of the hands and feet, in Avhich an operation for the removal of the diseased bone was apparently indispensable, recover spontaneously on change of air, and attention to the general health of the child ; the disintegrated particles of the diseased bone being eliminated piecemeal. In the earlier stages of caries, should there be any acute inflammatory symptoms, measures should be taken, by means of appropriate local and con- stitutional antiphlogistics, to subdue the activity and limit the extension of the disease ; and when this has fallen into a chronic state, constitutional alteratives should be employed. Amongst these, cod-liver oil, the iodides, and change of air, more especially to the sea-side when the patient is young, should hold the first place. Counter-irritation is of little avail in these cases in arresting the progress of the disease. By means of blisters, iodine, and issues, thickening of the periosteum and of the soft structures covering the diseased patch of bone may be lessened, and pain subdued ; but the real progress of the osseous disease cannot, I think, be influenced by such means, when once it has passed the earliest stage of inflammatory congestion. "WTien the disease has lasted some time and nature seems unable to eliminate the carious bone, all reparative action having ceased, or being inefficient for the restoration of the integrity of the part, an operation becomes necessary. When the operative procedure is carried out in the diseased part itself, it is impossible to be too careful in delaying it until the acute stage of the disease has passed, and the inflammation in the bone and surrounding tissues has become chronic. Unless this be done, the operation is veiy apt merely to give a fresh impetus to the disease, and should decomposition of the discharges take place, septic osteo-myelitis of the affected bone may ensue. Operations.—The operations practised upon carious bones are of four kinds ; consisting either in simple Removal of the Diseased Portion of Bone ; in Excision of the Carious Articular End; in Resection of the whole of the Bone affected ; or in Amputation of the Whole Limb. Before proceeding to the Removal of the Carious Portion of the Bone the limb should be rendered bloodless by Esmarch’s method, as the operator will then be able to see exactly what he is doing, instead of working in a deep hole filled with blood. The bone is best removed in most cases by means of the gouge. This instrument is especially useful in those cases in which short, thick bones, or the articular ends of the long bones, are affected, without implicating of the neighbouring joints. In applying the gouge, the diseased portion of bone should be exposed by a crucial incision, and, if necessary, its cavity opened by a small trephine. The gouge, fixed in a short round handle, is then freely applied, and the diseased tissues are scooped and cut out. In order to do this efficiently, it is desirable to be furnished with instruments of different shapes and sizes, so that there may be no difficulty in hollowing or cutting away eveiy portion of bone that is diseased. In many cases Volkmamis shai’p spoons may be advantageously substituted for gouges. I have found the f/ouge-foi'ceps (Fig. 51 f) very useful in clearing away angular fragments and projections of bone. In some cases Marshall’s osteotrite (Fig. 504) will be