CA.\X't:ii OF THE RECTUM. 867 tmitmeiit for syi)hilis. If ulceration is still present the best treatment consists in passing bougies of cocoa-nnt butter, each containing about four to five grains of iodoform, into the rectum once a day. If this does not succeed, similar bougies, containing a small quantity of bichloride of mercury, not exceeding of a grain, may be used instead. Jn many cases nothing succeeds so long as the diseased surface is irritated by the passage of fmces, and then colotomy must be ])erformed as the only means of giving relief. Should the ulcers heal without necessitating colotomy the cicatricial contraction resulting from them may be treated in the same way as a simple stricture. The extent of the disease usually, however, makes this form of stricture extremely intractable. Cancer of tlie Rectum—Malignant Stricture.—The form of cancer met with in the rectum is almost im’ariably the Columnar EiDithelioma, or as t is often called Adenoid Cancer. Its structure has been fully described in she Chapter on Tumours fVol. I., p. 1033). In the rectum it varies some- ^■llat in structure in different cases. In some the epithelial structure is very ibuudant, the growth resembling a closely packed mass of tubes resembling ularged crypts of Luberkuhn, between wdiich lie the vessels, sui^ported by a lelicate connective tissue closely infiltrated with small round cells. In others ■he glandular element is much less developed, the fibrous stroma being more ully developed, and showing in some cases a tendency to contract like that of . scirrhus. All degrees may be met with between these two extremes. The finical features vary with the structure. The softer varieties grow more apidly, implicate surrounding structures more widely, and tend to infect he lymphatic glands and internal organs, but lead to a less complete tricture of the gut. The firmer varieties grow slowly and often exist a ')iig time without giving rise to secondary growths, while from their tendency ■ j contract they cause great nan-owing of the gut. The softer forms usually ppear as fiat cauliflower growths springing from the inner surface of the gut, nd tending in most cases to spread circularly round it. They are usually xtremely painful, and bleed readily when examined. They slough early, and luse extensive destruction of the bowel. The firmer varieties form hard, )dulated growths projecting into the gut, narrowing its calibre greatly, i/hey ulcerate slowly and bleed less readily. ‘ True scirrhus, that is to say, glandular epithelial cancer with firm fibrous roma, is said to have been met with in the rectum. If such be the case it certainly veiy rare. Colloid cancer also, arising apparently from colloid degeneration of a (lurnnar epithelioma, has been met with, but is exceedingly rare. The tuinoui-8 descril^ed as Encephaloicl have probably been soft malignant rcomata commencing near the gut or in its coats, but these cases are so rare .at it is impossible, at present, to speak with certainty as to their structure. Most usually cancerous disease is seated from three to five inches above the 'ins, and may imjilicate a considerable portion of the bowel, extending upwards tlier than downwards, giving rising to considerable induration and contraction, id attemled, at least in .some ca.«e.s, by complete occlusion of the interior of e gut. ■ —(.'aiicer of the rectum is met with chiefly iu middle fife, but luetimes does not occur until advanced age. Both sexes are eiiuallv liable •t ; if anything, it is more frequent in women than iu men. ;! K -j