537 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAIi. Boils or Follicular abscesses arc not uncoinmoii in the external meatus. Tliey may arise as a complication of eczema, or as the consequence ot irritating discharges fi’om the middle ear. The Treatment is to apply hot fomentations to the ear, and, if the boil can be seen, relief may often be given by puncturing it with a small knife. Diffuse Inflammation of the Meatus or Otitis Externa is most common in childi-en, and may occur ft-om a variety of causes, amongst which are measles or scarlet fever, eczema or injuries. In some cases the inflamma- tion attects the periosteum, and in all, unless it be chocked early, it tends to implicate the membrana tympani. The symptoms are redness and swelling, more or less completely closing the auditory canal, with intense pain, aggi’avated in many cases by any movement of the jaw. After a time a purulent dischai'ge escapes, when some relief usually follows. The disease may assume a chronic form with discharge from the ear, forming one of the varieties of otoiThcea. In other cases abscess forms which may lead to disease of the bony walls of the canal. In some cases the canal becomes closed by the swelling, and perforation of the membrana tympani may take place. The Treatment in the early stages consists of leeches behind the ear, followed by hot fomentations. If suppuration threatens, the pus must be let out early by a free incision made deeply to the bone with a fine knife passed into the meatus. Exostoses.—Small exostoses occasionally form in the ear, springing from the bony part of the external meatus. These may cause deafness by completely obstructing the canal. They have been successfully treated by Mathewson of Xew York, Field, Dalby, and others by means of the American dental drill. Periosteal Thickenings, also, the result of syphilis, are occasionally met with. These usually disappear under iodide of potassium. Diseases of the Middle Ear.—It is impossible in a work of this kind to give more than the briefest possible description of the methods of examining the middle ear, and of the affections to which it is liable ; for fuller informa- tion the student must refer to special works. Method of Examination.—For examining the membrana tympani or tym- panum from the meatus, the ordinaiy silver ear speculum will be found as efficient as any of the more complicated instruments sometimes recommended. The light must be thrown down it by a concave mirror similar to that used for the laryngoscope. If necessary, the ear must first be carefully cleaned by syringing, and afterwards dried by means of small pieces of absorbent wool twisted round the end of a bit of wffialebone or wood. The membrane in health is of a bluish-grey colour, and the handle of the malleus can be seen crossing it from above downwards and slightly backwards, terminating a little beyond its middle. The membrane is set at an angle of 45 degrees with the floor of the meatus ; but, owing to its concavity looking outwards, a small triangular part below and slightly in front of the end of the handle of the malleus reflects back the light to the eye of the observer, and thus appears as a bright spot. The points to l>c observed in examining the membrane are its degree of opacity, its colour, and degree of vascularity ; its curvature, whether too concave, or convex and bulging ; and the presence or absence of perforation. 'I’lie instrument known as Politzer's hag is of great value in examining the condition of the Eustachian tube and the middle ear. It consists of a thick