6oo DISEASES OF THE JA AND THEIR AFFENDAGES. been removed the root of the tongue must be stitched forwards and the ligature through its tip must be retained for a few days till all danger of its falling backwards into the pharynx is passed, so that it may be drawn forward if necessity arises. When cicatrization is complete a dense mass of fibrous tissue is formed in the place of the jaw, and comparatively little deformity results. Diseases of the Temforo-Maxillary Articulation.—The articulation j of the jaw, though less frequently diseased than most other joints, is liable to ' the same affections as similar parts elsewhere. Chronic Rheumatic Arth- , ritis of the temporo-maxillary articulation has been already described (p. 349). Acute Arthritis, terminating in destruction of the joint and fibrous or osseous ankylosis, most commonly occiu’s in consequence of disease of the middle ear in scarlet fever. According to A. E. Barker, who has specially called attention to this form of disease, it is met with almost exclu- sively in children, and is due to the persistence of a hiatus in that part of the i tympanic plate forming the floor of the meatus and the roof of the articulation. This hiatus is always present in infancy, and may remain in adult life. | The disease may result also from necrosis of the bone in chronic suppurative \ inflammation of the middle ear after fevers. The symptoms are those met ' with in other joints—acute pain, redness, swelling, and the formation of j abscesses discharging either on the cheek or by the ear. The treatment con- : sists in rest and opening the abscesses. Ankylosis of the Jaw may be ! fibrous or osseous. It necessarily, even if affecting one side only, prevents i mastication. If fibrous, it may be treated by forcibly opening the mouth under chloroform by means of a screw-gag, or of an apparatus specially ; constructed for the purpose, after which a wedge may be placed between the ! teeth to keep them apart. This treatment is painful, and has to be repeated at intervals for some time lest the articulation become again stiffened. It is not usually very satisfactory. Spanton has succeeded in producing a better result by dividing the fibrous bands in the articulation by means of a tenotome passed into it. In firm fibrous ankylosis in which other means have failed, or in osseous ankylosis, the only treatment likely to be followed by good results is excision of the condyle of the jaw. This is best done by an incision carried along the lower border of the zygoma from immediately in front of the ear, avoiding the temporal artery, to the malar bone. From the middle of this a short vertical incision may be carried downwards, for about three- quarters of an inch, dividing the skin and fat only. The masseter is then separated fr’om the zygomatic arch as far as it is exposed by the scalpel and periosteal elevator. The neck of the bone is thus fuUy exposed, and must be carefully cleaned with a narrow elevator, keeping close to the bone so as to avoid injuring the facial nerve or internal maxillary artery. The neck of the bone is then divided with a narrow chisel. After this, if the ankylosis is fibrous, it may be possible to lever the condyle out with an elevator ; if it is osseous, a second section of the bone must be made with the chisel immediately below the zygoma. This operation has been successfully performed by Davies- Colley, Heath, and others. The result is usually very satisfactory. Humphry, of Cambridge, also successfully removed the condyle in 185G for rheumatoid arthritis. Rnlargement of the Condyle of the Jaw is a rare condition occa- sionally met with. There is great and irregular increase in size of the condyle, apparently due to the formation of ossifying cartilaginous outgrowths similar