573 MALIGXANT GROWTHS OF THE THYROID. commonly observe a triple clinical combination, of anosmia, exophthalmos, and bronchocele : and the connection of these has been commented on by Graves, Basedow, Sichel, "White Cooper, Aran, Begbie, and nnmerons other prac- titionem. Exophthalmic goitre is almost exclusively met with in women in vonne: adult life. It commences with anosmia and some menstrual disturb- ance. These are accompanied by palpitation and irregular action of the heart; often ^vith considerable breathlessness. Enlargement of the thyroid gland soon follows, which may assume the form of the pulsating bronchocele. At the same time that this gland enlarges, protrusion of the eyeballs becomes a marked symptom. In extreme cases the exophthalmos may be so great that the lids cannot properly cover the eyeballs, and inflammation of the conjunc- tiva and cornea may result; except from this cause, however, there is no affection of vision. The disease may steadily increase and death take place from some intercurrent disease or general wasting, more rarely fi’om pressime of the enlarged gland on the trachea. In other cases the symptoms may gradually subside and the patient recover. The exact nature of the disease is unknown. Shingleton Smith has described changes in the ceimcal sympathetic ganglia, which he is inclined to regard as the cause of the disease. The ganglia showed an increase of connective tissue with atrophy of the ganglionic cells. The treatment consists in rest, the administration of iron and aloetic purgatives. Malignant Tumours of the Thyroid Body.—Kauf&nan, in 1879, pub- lished a paper in which he recorded 30 cases, partly his own and partly collected, of malignant tumour of the thyroid body ; of these 23 Avere carci- noma, and 7 sarcoma. In every case the malignant tumour originated in a gland already affected by chronic bronchocele. The tumours usually affected one lol^e only, but in a feAV cases the whole gland was imj)licated. The cancerous tumours were characterized by rapid groAvth, infiltration of neigh- bouring structures, and early infection of the lymphatic glands and internal organs. In six cases, secondary tumoiu’S formed in^he bones. The tmnour was in all cases soft in consistence, and microscopic examination showed that the morbid groAvth commenced by proliferation of the normal cells of the gland, the new cells 'first filling the spaces and then burroAAmg into the surrounding parts in columns. The cells Avere in most cases polygonal, but in one the spaces Avere lined Avith cylindrical epithelium. The sarcomata were round-celled, spindle-celled, and mixed. In one case the groAvth perforated the trachea, and in all secondary tumours appeared, in three cases in the lymphatic glands. A .special form of malignant tumour of the thyroid body has been met Avith ii) a few recorded cases in Avhich the secondary tumours closely resembled the nonnal thyroid body in structure. These Avere first described by Cohnheim, and cases have been recorded by Morris, AVarington llaAAm’d, and Neumann. In all these the lymphatic glands Avere affected, and pulsating groAvths appeared in the bones. The thyroid body is also sometimes implicated by malignant sarcomata springing from the structures in its neighbourhood, and by e])ithelioma of the ffisophugus or larynx. It is very rarely the seat of secondary malignant irrowths.