1096 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. patient flat upon his back, witli tlie pelvis somewhat raised, and the liead and shoulders low. The Surgeon, standing on the left side, inserts the instrument, well-Avarmed and oiled with “ Lund’s oil” or vaseline, into the urethra, with its concavity turned towards the loft groin, and passes itdownthe canal, at the same time drandng the penis upwards with his left hand, so as to put the mucous membrane on the stretch. As the instrument approaches the triangular ligament, the handle is carried to the mesial line, and at the same time raised perpendicularly ; and, as its point passes under the pubes, it should be kept well against the upper surface of the urethra, and made to enter the bladder by depressing the handle towards and between the thiglis. The surest guide to the bladder is the upper surface of the urethra, which is more fixed than the lower, and less liable to the existence of fistulous openings or false passages. Should difficulty be experienced, the introduction may be facilitated by injecting and slightly distending the urethra with olive oil before passing the instrument. If difficulty is found in introducing the instrument, and if any doubt exist as to its being in the right passage, the finger must be introduced into the rectum and its position felt for. If the point of the instrument has left the urethra this may be recognized by its being too thinly covered and too near the gut, or by its being out of the middle line. Chloroform or ether need be administered only if the stricture be very tight or the patient irritable. Under the influence of an anaesthetic, however, many strictures may be readily passed with metallic instruments that are not pervious any other way. Results of Introduction of an Instrument.—The introduction of an instrument usually gives rise to a smarting, painful sensation in the uretlua; this is generally most severe as the point approaches the neck of the bladder, and is then sometimes attended by nausea and sudden faintness. As a general rule, the instrument should be passed every second or third day, and when introduced should be left in for about five minutes, or until the spasm of the urethra induced by its introduction has subsided. If, however, the stricture be extremely tight, a very small catheter only having been intro- duced, the instrument may be left in for twenty-fom’ or forty-eight hour's, when it Avill be found that, however tightly grasped it had been originally, it has become loosened; a slight discharge being at the same time set up- fi’om the urethra. It may then be readily withdi'awn, and, when the irrita- tion has subsided at the end of a couple of days, a considerably larger one may be introduced. The augmentation of the size of the instrument should be very gradual. It is fully sufficient to increase it by one number at each time of introduction. ]\Iany urethrae will not bear even this, and it becomes necessary to pass the same instrument on Lvo or three successive occasions before a larger size can be introduced. The size of the instrument may be gradually increased until that is reached which the urethral orifice readily admits; beyond this, the Surgeon should not go ; but so soon as the full size, usually No. 12 or 14, can be introduced 'with ease, it should not be passed so frequently as before; once a week or ten days, and gradually with less frequency. But a patient wlio has once suffered from a tight stricture should pass an instrument at least once a month for the rest of his life. If the size of the instrument be increased too rapidly, irritation may be set