SYMPTOMS OF CAPilES OF SPINE. 421 1 The most common seat of caries of the spiuc is the lower dorsal or the J) junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions. It is not uncommon in the middle dorsal, and may occur at any part. E,. AV. Parker states than in 149 cases, •!| the disease was in the cervical region in 9, in the dorsal in 82, in the dorso- *j‘! lumbar in 21, and in the lumbar or liimbo-sacral in 37. Symptoms.—Angular cinwature, or Pott’s disease of the spine, commonly A begins, especially in children, in a very insidious manner. It occurs usually 4 in strumous children, and is generally referred to a fall or blow on the back. The symptom that most often first attracts attention is the child’s attitude, .vhich is altered and very characteristic. The body is held stiffly straight and ipright; it is neither bent nor turned to one side when the child moves, but he spine is moved as a whole and in a rigidly fixed manner. The shoulders lire raised, the chin is thi’own up, and the toes are slightly turned in. The ‘ hild walks with great caution, and very stiffly. One of the earliest symptoms complained of is often an iU-defined superficial I jain, extending round the trunk, more severe, perhaps, on one side than on [) he other, and occasionally referred to the stomach. After a tune the child lecomes unable to stand upright unsupported, has a tendency to lean the body orwards, or to support it by resting the hands on the knees, or by seizing lold of anjAhing that will serve as a temporary support, such as a chair or able. It will be found also that the child experiences great difficulty in . aising itself without assistance from the horizontal into the sitting position, r in turning sideways in bed without the use of its arms. On examination, ne or two of the spines, usually about the middle of the back, will be found to e a httle more prominent than the rest; and, on pressing or tapping upon hem, pain will be complained of. The child becomes stunted in its growth ; nd, if the disease be not arrested by proper treatment, will continue more or ‘ss hump- or round-backed for life. In other cases the disease will run on to ae formation of abscess, as will immediately be described, strumous manifes- itions occurring elsewhere, and death eventually resulting. In adults, the danger and the symptoms vary according to the seat of the Tection. It is most dangerous, often indeed rapidly fatal, when the cervical b^rtebrse are implicated ; for, as the bodies of these are shallow, caries readily iienetrates to the spinal canal, and the cord or its membranes may thus be nplicated. When the dorsal or lumbar vertebrm become diseased, the affec- on is not so immediately serious to the life, as it may be to the figure of the atient. In adults it often commences with obscure flying pain in the loins ■ back, apparently of a rheumatic character, shooting round the body or dovm le thighs. On e.xamining the spine, which feels weak to the patient, and hich, as in the child, is incapable of supporting him or of enabling him to lise or turn himself without assistance, tenderness on pressm’e or on tapping ill be experienced at one point, and he will wince when a sponge wrung out hot water is applied to this part of the spine ; although there may be no )pearance of cxcurvation, the skin covering it is hypcrajsthetic. Alter a me, however, the spinous process of one or more vertebrae will be found to m ’oject distinctly beyond the general line of the column. This part becomes ‘C seat of constant aching pain, increased by movement or by pressing upon le head or shoulders. It must, however, be remembered that caries of the •dies of the vertebrae may take place to a considerable extent with little ■ no angular curvature. In these cases all the ordinaiy symptoms of caries 4