766 HERNIA. ami so occludes the aperture of exit. Of this kind of operation, AVutzer’s is the best example. The second method of treatment consists in excising a ])ortion of tlie integumental structures, and then by means of sutures attaching these and the deeper parts together, and thus leading to th? consolidation of the canal. Of this, Wood’s o]jcration is the best example. The third method consists of complete or partial removal of the sac and closure of the ring by sutures. The following are the details of these procedures. Wutzer’s Operation.—The late 0. AV. AYutzer, of Bonn, adopted a plan of radically curing reducible inguinal herniae, combining the two principles on which the older operations were founded, viz., the agglutination of the neck of the hernial sac by the excitation of inflammation in it, and the closure of the inguinal canal by the invagination of the scrotum; and he carried out these objects in a safer and more successful manner than by any of the methods pre- viously employed. His plan of treatment consisted in introducing a plug of the scrotum into the inguinal canal, and fixing it there by exciting adhesive inflam- I mation in the neck of the sac. The details of the operation are as follows : £ The patient lying on his back, and the hernia being reduced, the Surgeon pushes his index-finger up the inguinal canal as high as the internal ring, carrying before it a cone of the scrotal tissues; a hollow box-wood cylinder, | about four inches long (Fig. 784, C), well oiled, is then pushed up as the fino-er is withdrawn, so as to occupy its place in the inguinal canal. Along the"’interior of this cylinder a flexible steel needle, gilt (A), fixed in a movable handle, is then pushed, so as to traverse the invaginated scrotum, the hernial sac, and the anterior abdominal wall, through which its point is caused to pro- trude. A concave boxwood case (B) is then passed over the projecting point of the needle, and fixed by the other end by a screw apparatus to the cylinder (C) so as to compress the inclosed tissues. The apparatus so fixed is left in situioY six or eight days ; when, some discharge being established, it is with- drawn, and the invaginated scrotal plug supported by lint introduced up its interior, and by a spica bandage tightly applied. The patient is kept quiet for a fortnight longer, when he is allowed to move about, wearing a light truss for three or four months. This method of treatment is easy of execution, and appears to have been more successful than any that preceded it. Yet it is open to the objections that attend all plans for the radical cure of hernia; viz., the possible excita- tion of a dangerous amount of peritonitis; and the want of adliesion between ■ ■ the lower part of the scrotal plug and the corresponding side of the mguina canal and ring, and consequent failure in the complete occlusion of the canal and in the radical cure. • 1^, So far as the first objection is concerned, I believe that very little weight can be attached to it. I have very often performed this operation, and have