789 PERITONITIS AFTER HERNIOTOMY. from within the gut. The symptoms of peritonitis may assume two distinct forms, being active and acute, or passive and latent. Acute Peritonitis is commonly met with in strong and robust people, other- wise healthy, who are the subjects of the operation. It presents the ordinary symptoms of acute idiopathic inflammation of the peritoneum. There is tender- ness of a diffused character, with lancinating pains. The patient lies on his back, Avith his knees drawn up, has an anxious countenance, a quick, hard pulse, a dry tongue, and much inflammatory fever ; the respiration is prin- cipally thoracic, and tympanitis soon comes on. The bowels are usually con- stipated, though sometimes irritated. Vomiting usually forms a marked symtom. The Treatment of this form is best conducted by the administration of opium. A pill containing gr. j of opium may be given every fourth or • sixth horn*. If the patient is young and strong, gr. j of calomel should be .'added, and leeches, followed by hot fomentations, applied to the abdomen. The patient must be confined to barley-water, milk, and ice. When the inflammatory action is subdued, the constipation Avhich is occasioned by it will ,be relieved without the necessity of administering any purgatives. The ttympanitis may best be removed by tinpentine enemata, and any lurking [tenderness by the application of blisters. Latent or Passive Peritoniiis occurs cliiefly in old people, or in weakly subjects, and is especially apt to follow upon inflammation of the omentum .:ind its consequent suppuration. In other cases it follows the reduction of , nflamed or gangrenous gut. More commonly it is the consequence of the ixtension of unhealthy inflammation of septic or infective origin from the round to the peritoneum. This form of inflammation is very apt to occur n overcrowded or unhealthy hospitals, and is prevented by the same means, : lygienic and local, as pymmia, septicmmia, and the allied diseases. It usually ’)roves rapidly fatal, the patient being poisoned by absorption of the products f the unhealthy process ; dying in fact of acute septic poisoning. In hospital atients especially, in Avhoni all disease is apt to assume a low character, this iflammation is peculiarly liable to occirr. In some instances, it sets in without tie appearance of any marked local symptoms of inflammation, such as pain or : neasiness in the abdomen ; but, two or three days after the operation, the atient becomes depressed, rrith a quick and weak pulse, an auxious counte- aiice, a tumid and tympanitic abdomen, and rapid sinking of strength. In le majority of cases, however, some of the ordinary local signs of peritonitis are resent. After death, the abdominal cavity will be found to contain a quantity turbid serous fluid mixed vdth flakes of lymph ; in many instances in such jantity as to give it a pnriform appearance, and not unfro([uently matting •gether the coils of intestine. In the Treatment, it is necessary to support le patient, and in some instances even to administer stimulants, such as iimouia, the brandy-and-egg mixture, &c. Depleting measures of all kinds e quite inadmissible : and, indeed, the remedy that offers the most prospect ’ benefit to the patient is opium in full doses, one grain being given every ird or fourth hour until some effect is produced upon the constitution, i tlie same time, turpentine enemata may be administered, with the view of moving the tympanitis, which is a source of much distress to the patient. <|X Localized Peritonitis is of common occuiTcncc. 11 is not characterized ■ any veiy evident symptoms beyond jiain and tenderness at some point of e alxloinen near the scat of tlie hernia. It is most coininoiily due to the i