URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. ioo8 Disease of the Kidneys is in Litliotrifcy, as in all other 0])erations on the urinary organs, the most common cause ofclangei' and of death. Tlie various forms of fatal kidney-disease have been so fidly described in Chapter liXVIf. tliat I must refer the reader to it. Constitutional Disturbance.—Very considerable constitutional disturb- ance occasionally follows lithoti-ity. The patient is seized with severe and lom>-. continued rigors, followed by profuse sweating, lasting for many hours. I'liese serious symptoms are most apt to come on after tlie first sitting ; but the experience of Bigelow’s method seems to show that they are not much more prone to occur after a moderately prolonged operation than after the short sittings formerly adopted. They may pass off quickly, apparently being analogous to those nervous phenomena that are apt to follow the introduction of instruments in strictures, &c., or they may persist and assume the character already described as indicating septicaemia or renal inflammation. These serious consequences are especially apt to happen when there is previous disease of the kidneys. Indeed, there is no condition that is more directly antagonistic to the success of lithotrity than interstitial nephritis. When this is present to any considerable extent, with or without much albumen in the urine, casts of tubes and blood, the increased irritation induced by the operation Avill almost to a certainty prove fatal. In other instances, again, the fatal result is more directly dependent on the irritation induced by the operation leading to the formation of abscess in the neighbourhood of the prostate, or around the neck of the bladder ; and in other instances, again, on the supervention of unhealthy suppuration in some of the sacculi that are occasionally met with in this organ. The Treatment of this state of things should consist in the free adminis- tration of stimulants—brandy, ammonia, and ether—followed by a full dose of opium, and abundant warm diluents. If the bladder contains foul urine this must be removed by washing out with antiseptic solutions. Especial care must be taken in those cases in which any stone remains not to repeat the sitting for at least a week or ten days after the rigors have passed off. Perineal Lithotrity.—After a stone has been broken up but not com- pletely removed at one sitting, it occasionally happens that the fragments become a source of so much irritation that the crushing operation has to be abandoned, and lithotomy is required, in order to relieve the patient. Again, diuiug the operation of lithotomy, the operator may meet with so large a stone, that he cannot extract it with safety, and he then breaks it up in order to remove it in a fragmentary manner, or the stone may be so soft that it crumbles under the’ pressure of the forceps. These circumstances, familiar to all lithotomists, have led various Surgeons to recommend, as a formal operation, the breaking up of calculi before extraction, in order that the removal of the broken stone might be effected through a smaller incision than would be required for its extraction if entire. Without going back to the records of ancient or even mediaeval surgery for illustrations of this operation, it suffices to say that in modern times such a procedure has been advocated by many distin- guished Surgeons, more especially by Malgaigne, under the term of “ Litho- triptic Lithotomy.” Dolbcau has reduced to a formal operation, which he has described as ‘^Perineal Tjithoiritji,'''' those procedures which were formerly undertaken without any very definite rules.