LUPUS—VARIETIES AND SYMPTOMS. S After a patch of lupus hjis readied its full development, retrogressive changes take place. These may be of two kinds. In the first, some of the cells may become cloudy from fatty degeneration, break up, and be absorbed, while a development of cicatricial fibrous tissue takes place from the remainder. Thus, the process comes to an end without ulceration, and although the epithelial covering has been throughout intact, a scar results similar in appearance to that caused by a superficial burn. "When the disease takes this course, it is described as non-nlcerative hipu^, liqms non-exedens or luims exfoliativu^ (Kaposi). In the second form the fatty degeneration affects the whole of the cellular mass, which then softens, the cuticle covering it is thrown off and the disintegrated caseous mass is discharged, leaving an ulcer which may slowly extend. The disease is then Imown as ulcerative Vujms, Itqms exedens or hqms exulcerans. These two forms are therefore mere modifications of one process ; the fate of the new growth, whether it is absorbed without ulceration or Avhether it softens and is discharged, being due to accidental, local, or constitutional conditions, the nature of which cannot in all cases be determined. Symptoms.—Lupus commences in the form of tubercles, buried in the skin. They are separate from each other, and arranged in groups, or sometimes in irregular ch’cles. At first they form red or reddish-brown patches, from a line to a quarter of an inch in diameter, which are not raised above the surface. The tubercles continue slowly to develop, till after some weeks they become slightly elevated, and covered by a fine branny epidermic desquamation. Several patches may coalesce, forming larger tubercles, and at the same time new patches appear, so that all stages of development may be observed at once in the same case. At this point the two forms of the disease diverge. In Lupus non-exedms, the tubercle becomes paler in colour and gradually shi-inks and disappears. The integument which has been affected by the disease may be in one of two states ; it may either continue red, irritable, and branny, having the appearance of a thin cicatricial tissue, and in this way the greater part or the whole of the face may be affected; or it may leave a firm, white, smooth, and depressed cicatrix, exactly resembling that produced by a burn, along the margin of which the disease slowly spreads, in the form of an elevated ridge composed of soft bluish-white or reddish tubercles. In lupus exedens, instead of disappearing, the tubercles become pale in colour and softened ; the epithelial covering separates, and the disintegrated cheesy mass mixed with some pus is discharged, and drying on the siu’face forms a scab. This process may be accompanied by considerable inflammation of the skin surrounding the lupoid patches, with heat, swelling, and pain. hen the scab separates, an ulcer is seen beneath. It is sharply defined, with slightly raised edges, and usually a smooth red surface Avhich bleeds readily. This sore may gradually extend both superficially and in depth, and when seated on the nose often leads to destruction of the aim and columna. Lupus vulgaris seldom, however, spreads very deeply, although large areas of skin may be affected, and the most frightful deformity result. Situation.—may occur on any part of the body, but it is far more commonly met with in the face than elsewhere. The nose and cheeks are the parts of the face usually attacked. It may commence on mucous membranes, but most commonly reaches them by extension from the skin. It is, however, occasionally met with as a primary disease in the i)haryux and larynx. It