DIAGXOSIS OF TUMOURS OF THE UFPER JAW. 583 :' I t I • f j t \ ! •I ■»( ! & » R (• i « t 1 A I! ^ I i\ i f I A ■i I When they project into the nose tliey form polypoid masses, bleeding readily and obstructing the fossm. If they spring from behind the maxilla, they not unfrec|nently penetrate the cranial cavity, either from the orbit or by means of the foramina in the base of the skull. ]\Iyeloid sarcoma occurs in young adult life chiefly in the alveolai* border of the bone. In other parts it is extremely rare. Epithelioma is far from nncomraon. It may, as before stated, spring from the gnm and penetrate the antrum, or it may originate in the mucous membrane of the antrum or nasal fossm. It forms a soft rapidly-growing tumour, infiltrating the surrounding parts. It very early spreads into the irregiflar cavities in the neighbourhood of the upper jaw, and thus is very apt to recur after apparently complete removal. The form most commonly met with is the squamous epithelioma spreading from the hard palate or gum, but columnar or tubular epithelioma originating in the antrum or in the nasal fossm is also met with. Situation and Symptoms of Tumours in the region of the Upper Jaw.—Sarcomatous tumours occasionally spring from the surface of the malar l)one, pushing forward the cheek, spreading into the mouth, and involving, with greater or less rapidity, according to their malignancy, the soft structures of the face and occasionally the lymphatic glands under the jaw. They are usually rapid in growth, soft and elastic to the feel, irregular in outline, and only secondarily implicate the superior maxilla and the neighbouring cavities. The various growths that are connected with, or spring from, the periosteum or mucous membrane of the antrum, in growing gradually expand and dilate the walls of the cavity, pressing the bones outwards thinning them, and giving rise to a considerable outward projection of one side of the face, the anterior surface of the superior maxilla being the part that usually first yields to the outward pressure. The tumour thus formed is generally smooth, round, or oval, slightly lobed perhaps, more especially if fibrous, and has in many cases a tendency to hang downwards so as to overlap the lower jaw to a certain extent. As it grows, it encroaches more or less upon the structures lying in the \icinity of the antrum. Thus, it pushes down the palate, causing con- siderable swelling in the roof of the mouth ; displaces the alveolar processes and teeth, giving rise to irregularity in their outline, and tending to project into and occupy the alveolus. It may encroach upon the orbit, occasioning epiphora, impairment of vision, and displacement of the eye-ball. As the tumour enlarges, it obstructs the nasal cavity, and, stretching back into the pharynx, interferes wdth respiration, and deglutition, and sometimes occasions severe epistaxis. When it is of a malignant character, obstruction of the nasal fossa will be found to be one of its earliest signs, leading to the suspicion of nasal polypus ; but the true and more serious nature of the disease will be revealed by the integuments becoming involved, the gmns implicated, and perhaps the submaxillary lymphatic glands enlarged. Diagnosis.—In the diagnosis of these tumours growing in the upper jaw, there are three principal points to be attended to :—1, to distinguish the growth from fluid accumulation ; 2, to determine whether it be simple or malignant; and .8, to ascertain its primary seat. 1. In making the diagnosis from Jluid accumulation in the antrum, the history of the case, and the uniform enlargement of the cavity without localized ]>rojection beyond any part of its walls, the elasticity and even