2 74 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. cause complete destruction of the cancellous tissue. Tlie undestroycd hone then perishes, becomes separated from the surrounding parts, and lies loose in the cavity of the abscess. In some cases abscess of bone is associated with chronic osteitis of a con- siderable portion or the whole of the shaft, the bone becoming greatly enlarged, thickened, and generally diseased from end to end. Fig. 502 is a representa- tion of a section of the tibia in such a state of combined suppuration and inflammatory hypertrophy, removed by amputation from a woman who had suffered for 23 years from the disease. In such cases, amputation or excision is the sole means of relief. The Causes of Ghronk Abscess of Bone are often somewhat doubtful. It occurs almost exclusively in scrofulous subjects, and there can be no doubt that the immediate cause in a large proportion of cases is the deposit of tubercle in the medulla of the cancellous tissue. This sets up inflammation around it and finally softens in the same way as in other parts. In some cases the disease arises apparently from injury. The Symptoms of chronic abscess of bone are usually of the following character. The patient, after the receipt of an injury, perhaps, has noticed that at one spot the affected bone has become swollen and painful ; the skin covering it preserves its natural colour in the majority of cases, but in some instances becomes red, glazed, and oedematous ; the pain, which is of a lan- cinating and aching character, is usually remittent, often ceasing for days, weeks, or months, and then returning, under the influence of very trivial causes, with its original severity. It is especially troublesome at night, and is always associated with a degree of tenderness of the part; and indeed, in the intervals of its accession, it will be found on careful examination that there is always one tender spot in the enlarged and indurated bone. The long persistence, for years perhaps, of these signs will usually point to the existence of a small cucumscribed abscess under the thickened wall of the bone. It must be borne in mind, hoAvever, that the same local symptoms may be induced by four conditions: 1. By a chronic abscess without necrosis. 2. By the inclusion of a small j)iece of dead bone surrounded by pus within a dense and impervious casing. 3. By simple chronic osteitis and periostitis (p. 271), without suppuration or necrosis ; and, 4. By the giwth of a cystic or other tumour within the bone. For aU practical purposes the diagnosis is of little consequence, as the operative treatment is the same, whether the symptoms arise from the confinement of a few drops of pus or from the inclusion of necrosed bone, and the diagnosis of the presence of a tumour can often be made only by a similar operation. The danger of chronic abscess of the end of a long bone wiU greatly depend on its proximity to the articular surface. If near this, it will probably lead to perforation of the cartilage, so that the pus enters the joint, which then becomes acutely inflamed and often destroyed. If the chronic abscess be situated in the diaphysis near the junction of the epiphysis with the shaft, this event is not so likely to occiu. The suiTOunding bone simply becomes thickened ; and though the health may suffer from the constant wearing pain, the joint is not in peril, and relief may readily be given by operation. Treatment.—As a circumscribed abscess in bone cannot perforate the dense osseous structure overlying it by any process analogous to the pointing and f I t il I. i- h, ii I I V {