PHYSICAL SIGNS OF THORACIC ANEURISM. T57 from perforation of the aneurismal sac, where it projected against the oesophagus, by the point of the instrument. The difficulty in deglutition, in cases of compression of the oesophagus by aortic aneurism, is almost invariably referred to the episternal notch. The dysphagia is commonly associated with pain, or with the sensation of a cord drawn tightly around the body. 4. (Edema, with more or less lividity of the upper extremities and head and neck, occasionally but rarely occurs. It is generally most marked on the left side, and arises from the compression of the superior cava or the innomi- nate veins by aneurisms springing from the fore or upper part of the arch. Pulsation and Tumour, observable externally, are always absent in the early stages of intrathoracic aortic aneurism, and very fr-equently continue so throughout the progress of the affection; indeed, in aneurisms springing from the intrapericardial aorta or the concavity of the arch, death usually takes place, either by rupture into one of the serous cavities or the air-tube, or by the exhaustion induced by dyspnoea, long before the aneurism has attained a sufficient size to be recognizable externally. There are, however, three portions of the thoracic aorta which, when affected by aneurism, yield external evidence by the existence of pulsation or tumour of the true nature of the disease. These are—1, the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta; 2, the smnmit of the arch; and 3, the posterior aspect of the descending aorta. 1. 'When the aneurism is situated on the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta and commencement of the arch, pulsation may be detected by pressm’e between the intercostal spaces on the right side of the sternum, and a thrill, as well as distinct impulse, may often be felt over that side of the chest, before any external tmnour becomes visible ; thus simulating the beat of the heart, in addition and opposite to the seat of the true cardiac impulse. As the anemlsm increases an external tumour appears, the wall of the chest becoming absorbed and perforated opposite the point of greatest impulse. 2. When an aneurism springs from the summit of the arch, a pulsating tumour appears at the root of the neck, behind or even above the margin of the sternum, most commonly towards the right side, and occasionally rises so high out of the thorax, and is so distinctly felt in the neck, as to run the risk of being confounded with aneurism of the brachio-cephalic or carotid artery (Fig. 470, p. 170). This eiTor, which has frequently been committed, and which has led to operations on the arteries at the root of the neck, may usually be avoided, except in the case of the brachio-cephalic, by the im- possibility of tracing with the finger the lower boundary of the tmnour, and the existence of distinct dulness on percussion, and possibly of impulse or of auscultatory evidence of aneurism, below the level of the upper margin of the sternum or clavicle. 3. When aneurism springs from t\\Q posterior wall in the descending porta, a pulsating tumour may gradually develop to one side of the spine or under the scapula, commoidy on the left side ; and it may attain an excessive size, frilly a.s large as the head (Fig. 4(!4), before the patient is destroyed by the rupture of the tumour extenially. Tukatmkxt.—In the great majority of aneurisms of the thoracic aorta surgical interference is impossible, and onr sole reliance must be placed on rest, diet, and the administration of iodide of potassium (see p. 110). Surgical Treatment of Aneurism of the Aortic Arch.—The idea