DISEASES OF JOINTS. 330 In cases in which the disease stops short of suppuration, an abundant coagulable fibrinous exudation is said to have been observed. The ligaments are early affected by extension of the inflammation to them from the synovial membrane. The bundles of fibres are at first separated fi'om each other by a coagulable inflammatory exudation, and the ligaments thus become swollen, and present at first a waxy or semi-gelatinous appear- ■ ance. As the disease progresses the fibres become softened, and the ligaments i yield, allowing the osseous surfaces to be displaced by the tonic contraction of i the muscles, or the weight of the limb. The inflammation extends from the ligaments to periosteum of the articular ends of the hories entering into the joint. The periostitis thus set up usually assumes the osteoplastic form (p. 260), and irregular masses of new bone, often arranged in jagged stalactite- like j)rocesses, are formed in the neighbourhood of the articulation. This is : more marked in the less acute forms of the disease, or when after the escape i of pus from the joint, the process has become chronic. The soft parts in contact with the ligaments are oedematous in the early stages, but subsequently as the disease advances, they may become fused with the capsule of the joint, so that it is impossible accurately to separate them. Abscesses not unfrequently form outside the joint, having no direct communi- ; cation with its cavity. The cartilages covering the articular ends of the bones in all cases present most important changes. These are never primary; in every case it will be found that the morbid process proceeds either from the articular surface, or from the bone beneath. When the latter is the case, the affection of the cartilage is antecedent to the acute arthritis; this condition commencing || when the cartilage is perforated, and the joint becomes infected by the products of the disease which has commenced in the bone. When the cartilage is affected in consequence of acute suppurative inflam- mation of the joint, the first change observed is a loss of its natural smoothness and polish. Its bluish-white tint becomes more opaque, and often assumes a slightly yellowish tinge. This is followed by loss of substance in those parts at which the opposed articular sm’faces are in contact in the fixed position assumed by the inflamed joint. Finally the cartilage is completely destroyed at these parts, and the cancellous tissue of the head of the bone is exposed. As soon as perforation takes place, the suppuration extends between the cartilage and the bone, the pus being formed from the vascular medullary tissue of the cancellous spaces. The cartilage thus becomes loosened, and is bathed by pus on each side. Its nutrition being cut off it perishes, beepmes yeUow in colour, and tough and leathery in consistence. Microscopic examina- tion shows that the process is one of sloughing and disintegration. The matrix is opaque and granular, and the cells show no signs of proliferation, but; on the contrary have broken down into a mass of fat granules. | At the margins of the cartilages in those parts not exposed to pressure, and in those cases of acute arthritis which terminate without suppuration, the destruction of the cartilages takes place by a process of true ulceration. The cartilages are overlapped at their margins by the granulation-tissue formed from the inflamed synovial membrane. On removing this the surface of tlie cartilage "will be seen to be marked by irregular hollows filled with a similar tissue, and in a later stage the cartilaginous tissue will be found to have been destroyed to a greater or less extent. In other parts of the cartilage similar changes may