OA RIES—SYMPTOMS—TllEA TMENT. 285 and new bone is formed beneath it. In central caries the compact tissue is usually somewhat rarefied. fj Situation of Caries.—Billroth andMenzel of Vienna have examined the question of the relative fi’equency of caries in different bones. In 1,9i)6 cases, the nimibers were : skull, IGl ; facial bones, 44 ; vertebral column, 702 ; sternum, clavicle, and ribs, 184 ; bones of shoulder-joint, 28 ; elbow-joint, 93 ; wrist and hand, 41 ; pelvis, 8u ; hip-joint, 189 ; knee-joint, 238 ; ankle-joint and foot, 150 ; scapula, 4 ; humerus (shaft), 13 ; radius, 2 ; ulna, 4 ; femur (shaft), 31 ; tibia, 30 ; fibula, 2. A classification in regions gives : head and spine, 1091 ; upper limbs, 185 ; lower limbs, 720. Hence it appears that, while any bone may be affected with caries, it is most frequently met with in the short and cancellous bones. Symptoms.—The symptoms indicative of the occurrence of caries are very equivocal, and are not unfrequently, in the early stages, mis- taken for those of ordinary abscess or rheumatism. They consist of pain iu the bone, sometimes with a good deal of redness and swelling in the soft tissues covering it; abscess at last forms, often of considerable size ; and, on letting out the pus, the character of the disease will be recognized, as the bare and rough bone may be felt with a probe, wdiich sinks into depressions upon its surface, which though rough, yields readily to the pressure of the instrument. The cavity of the abscess gradually contracts, lea'^ung fistulous openings, which discharge pus in varying amount. The discharge is frequently fetid, unless means be taken to prevent its decomposition. Granules of bone, the minute sequestra from necrotic caries, are often intermixed with it, and it has been shown to contain a considerable excess of phosphate of lime. The fistulous openings are generally suiTounded or concealed by high spongy granulations, and the neighbouring skin is duskily inflamed. These sinuses or fistulm are often loug and tortuous. They wind along and around the muscles, the pus finding its way along the lines of least resistance in the inter-muscular planes of areolar tissue, the external opening being often situated at a considerable distance, perhaps many inches, from the diseased bone. In these cases a long and flexible probe is required to traverse the sinuosities of the fistulous track so as to reach the bone at its extremity ; and here Sayre’s vertebrated probe (Fig. 503) is sometimes useful, being flexible and accommo- dating itself to the windings of the canal. A similar instrument has been devised also by Steele of Bristol. The difficulty of draining these long sinuses efficiently, often leads to the accumulation of pus, frequently septic in character, at a certain degree of pressure in the deeper parts, in consequence of which the suppuration may be maintained almost indefinitely, the patient finally perishing from exhaustion hectic, chronic septic poisoning, or albuminoid degeneration of internal organs. ’ffiKATMENT.—The treatment of caries must be conducted in reference to the constitutional cause that occasions it, the removal of which is the first and most essential clement iu effecting a cure. If it arise from syphilis, this must