I INTBAOliBITAL—SYMPTOMS OF. 189 ■ la the first class of cases, where the disease lias been of spoiitaaeous origin, the j patient has suddenly felt a crack or snap in the orbit, like the “crack of a whip,” or the “ snap of a gun,” and the disease has then developed gradually. In the traumatic cases, the blow upon the head has usually been severe, attended in some instances with symiitoms of fracture of the anterior part of the base of the skull. In several cases it has arisen from penetrating wounds of the orbit as from sticks or small shot. Of the 73 cases collected by Kiviugton, 32 were idiopathic and 41 traumatic. Of the idiopathic cases two were congenital, probably genuine specimens of cimoid aneurism, the mean age of the rest was 43, the oldest being 09. The mean age of the traumatic cases was between 30 and 31, the extremes being 11 and 72. The spontaneous cases were most commonly in women : thus, of 30 cases in which the sex is recorded 21 were females. The traumatic form is most common in men, the number being 31 males to 10 females. Amongst the idiopathic cases 15 occurred on the right side, 13 on the left, and 2 on both sides ; of 40 traumatic cases, 10 were on the right, 27 on the left, and 3 on both. Symptoms.—The first sensation experienced is, in spontaneous cases, that of a loud snap or crack in the orbit or head. This is followed by congestion of the conjunctiva, difficulty in opening the eyelids, a feeling of tension, and in .some instances severe pain in and around the orbit. Loud whizzing, bewilder- ing noises ai’e experienced in the head, and are much increased on stooping or lying down. In traumatic cases, a persistence of congestion of the conjunctiva • 1 with redness and some oedema of the eyelids, and the occurrence of noises in ; the head, are usually the first indications of the mischief that has occurred. In • I all cases, after a time, the eyeball becomes unduly prominent, and pulsation of a thrilling vibratory character can be felt in the orbit : on the application - I of the ear, a loud whizzing bruit is discernible, which extends widely over i the side of the head. The eyeball itself eventually falls into a state of i chronic congestion ; chemosis occurs, the cornea becomes opalescent, the I aqueous humour turbid, and sight is impaired or lost. The bruit and pulsa- tion are diminished or cease on compressing the carotid artery of the side . affected. 1 Progxosls.—I think it is still doubtful what would happen in a large number of these cases, if the disease were left to itself Avithout operation. It ; might be supposed that it would probably have a fatal termination ; that rupture w’ould take place either into the cranial cavity or externally, and that sudden death would occur. That this has occasionally taken place is proA^ed by recorded cases, but it is by no means a necessary consequence of the disease. I was consulted at the end of 18G5 by a gentleman about 44 years of age, Avho, in consequence of a fall on the head a few months preA'iously, had txjen attacked Avith symptoms of aneurism of the left orbit in thp most j marked manner. The bruit and the pulsation Avere very loud and distinct. fi’he e ’eljall Avas greatly protruded, the conjunctiva and eyelids Avere con- -1 gested and swollen. OreaA'es of Burtoji, Avith Avliom I saAv the case, agreed Avith me in urging ligature of the carotid artery as the oidy means of cure. ; 'I’o thi.s the })aticnt would not consent, and ])referred taking his chance. By attention to habits of life, abstinence from stimulants, and ordinary medical ! treatment, the tumour sui)sided, the eye retreated Avithin the orbit, and the 8ynq)toms diminished gi’catly ; so that, at the end of fourteen months from