DIAGNOSIS OF GANG EE. 735 of whicli their secretion becomes nnhealthy, and that this morbid secretion irritates the mnco-cntaneons surface Avith which it comes in contact, lliat this e.xplanation is a probable one AA’onld appear from a case under my notice in which a lady having' atrophic scirrhns of the right mamma, became affected by eczema of tiie left nipple. After a time the axillary glands on this—the left side—became cancerous, and then some induration Avas detected in the left mamma. Here it seemed probable that the primary disease of the left mamma consisted in a small scirrhons infiltration of it which simiiltaneonsly or almost so gave rise to eczema of the nipple on one side and glandular infiitration on the other. Any Avay, persistent eczema of a nipple in a middle-aged Avoman must excite the gravest apprehension as a probable prL'cni'sor or concomitant of cancer of the breast. The influence of Hereditij and the GeogrcqjMcal Distribution of the Disease has’e been already sufficiently discussed in the chapter on cancer in general (Vol. I., p. 1011). Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of cancer of the breast from other diseases affecting this organ is of the first importance, and is attended by corresponding difficulties. The gi-eat point is to determine Avhether the tumour of the breast 1)6 of a cancerous character or not; that the Surgeon should go beyond this, matters little in practice—and, indeed, except in some of the forms of cystic disease of this organ, few practitioners would feel disposed to endeavour to carry their diagnosis beyond this point. The great and essential difficulty in determining the nature of a tumour of the breast consists in the fact of the same signs being more or less common to many groAvths in this region ; a hard, circumscribed, indolent mass, chi'onic in its progress, with a certain amount of pain, being the usual characteristics presented by all solid mammary tumours ; and though in nine cases out of ten a tumour presenting these characters, Avhich has existed for a year or more in an elderly woman, and has resisted ordinary absorbent and alterative treatment, is scirrhous, yet instances of the reA'erse occasionally occur, Xothing can better exemplify the difficulty of diagnosis in tumours of the breast than the circumstance, Avhich is not unfrequently Avitnessed, that after the removal of the diseased mass, its section, and careful examination. Surgeons of equal experience will differ as to whether it be malignant or not, and to AA’hat class of affections it should be referred ; . and, indeed, in many of. these cases it is impossible to ascertain its precise nature without having recourse to miscroscopical obseiwation. It is extremely difficult to lay doAvn any definite rules of diagnosis by which the question as to the malignancy of a tumour of the breast can be sohnd. In the majority of cases of cystic yroiuth in this region, there is little difficulty ; the existence of cysts of sufficient size to be readily felt or seen through the skin being generally characteristic of the non-malignant cystic groAvths, It must be borne in mind, however, that cases, such as one to Avhich allusion has 1 already been made, may occur, in Avhich cysts are conjoined Avith cancerous ' dcA'clopment. The diagnosis betAveen cystic sarcoma and some fonns of cystic cancer of the breast is not always easy ; indeed, it may be impractical)le except by .microscopic e.xaniination after rcmoA’al. I liaA'e had in the Hospital a patient 'fifty-nine years of age, in Avhose breast a hard tumour, as largo as half an orange, had e.xisted for fiA'e years ; it Avas perfectly and freely movable, uncon- nected in any Avay Avith the skin ; there avus no retraction of the nipple, and