io6r DIAGNOSIS OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 4 aly by examination through tlie rectum and urethra. By rectal exploration ,'ith the hiurer, the dejjree of enlargement of the lateral lobes can best be .'Scertained ; though, as in many cases the end of the finger cannot reach the '^.l arther extremity of the gland, it will be impossible to say to what extent the ft|-.ypertrophy has extended. The urethral exploration must be conducted by P'.leans of a long gum-elastic or a silver prostatic catheter, and will afford jiinformation that rectal exploration cannot give; by it are ascertained j | jiproximately the size of the middle lobe, and the condition of the urethra as " o elongation and curve. The diagnosis of obstruction in consequence of enlarged prostate has to be uade from that produced by, 1, Stricture of the Urethra ; 2, Calculus of the iiJ. Madder ; o, Vesical Tumour ; 4, Chronic Cystitis ; 5, Atony of the Bladder ; i. Paralysis of the Bladder. 1. In Striclure the stream of urine is small, but the jet is increased by training, while in enlarged prostate the stream is dribbling, but not reduced a volume, and straining only makes matters worse. Stricture most com- i^i'iaonly occurs before middle life, prostatic disease always after. In stricture jf;;!he obstruction is within six inches of the meatus ; in prostatic disease it is at 6 f east seven from the orifice. It is not wise, however, to trust too implicitly to ^'^measurements in inches, as the penis varies considerably in length. If the i I;(inger l)e passed into the rectum, it can at once be determined whether the fi; >)oint of obstruction is in front of the apex of the prostate. 2. Calculus presents many symptoms in common with enlarged prostate, and sj': ts more special symptoms may be absent. In stone the frequency of micturi- Ion is greater by day, in prostatic disease it is worse at night. The presence ; )f a small quantity of florid blood in the urine passed after exercise should lirnake the Surgeon strongly suspect the presence of a stone; but the use of the V .ound will alone lead to an exact diagnosis. 3. I'esical Tumour gives rise to more pain and tenderness on the introduc- tion of instruments than prostatic enlargement; and the urine generally con- tains blood and mucus, often with sabulous matter. Microscopic examination p, if the contents of the urine may show the presence of the component tissues i|iof the tumour. Tumours, especially of the malignant kind, may be felt through ||t,he rectum; while villous tumours give rise to the almost constant presence of )lood in the urine. I 4. In Chronic Cystitis, .without complication, the absence of the physical ij*' iigns of enlarged prostate, as ascertained by examination by the rectum and f irethra, will establish the diagnosis. Atony of the Bladder is, as before stated, very commonly associated with Itonlarged prostate. Its absence would be shown by the urine flowing from |.<-lie catheter in a steady stream, not influenced by the respiratory movements, ndicating an active contraction of the bladder. (). Trae Paralysis of the bladder, accompanied with a similar affection of ither parts, is recognized by its concomitant conditions, and by the absence )f physical signs of enlarged prostate, and, as in atony, by the passive nature the flow of urine through the catheter. Treatmknt.— In the treatment of enlarged prostate, little can be done by ! medical means ; though the patient's condition may be somewhat ameliorated l)v remedies calculated to lessen irritation about the urinary organs, and to improve the condition of the urine. If it be very acid, alkalies with henbane