320 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. J that ill some eases it may be a soft sarcoma, the original tissue of which has been entii-ely softened and broken down by haemorrhage into its substance. Such cases are extremely rare, and until some have been recorded with accurate microscopic examination of the contained clot and the surrounding bone we must hesitate to form any opinion of their true nature. Situation.—Pulsating sarcomata may be found anywhere, but are most common in the bones of the skull, the lower end of the tibia and upper end of the femur. Nievoid growths are most common on the skull. The “ true aneurism of bone ” has been said to occur most frequently in the head of the tibia. Syniptoms.—When the tumour is merely a highly vascular sarcoma, the symptoms that it gives rise to are the same as have already been described as indicating a central sarcoma of bone, with the addition of pulsation and bruit. In these the pulsation is very distinct and superficial, and commonly of a thrilling character ; it may be distinctly expansile in character ; the bruit is usually soft and blowing, but not unfrequently harsh, loud, and whizzing. In true osteo-aneurisrn, according to Nelaton, the bruit is often absent. In Fig. 527.—Aneiu’isni by Anastomosis of one of the Parietal Bones. pulsating sarcomata I have heard the bruit peculiarly loud, rough, and super- ficial. On compressing the main artery leading to the part of the limb in which the tumour is situated, all movement and bruit commonly cease in it, and the tumour lessens in size. By pressing upon the growth when it is thus diminished, if it be a “ true aneurism of bone,” it will commonly be found to have a bony margin, with a central depression. In some cases the tumour is fed by several arterial branches, which may be felt distinctly pulsating under the skin. This is more particularly the case in soft sarcomata occurring upon the bones of the pelvis and the scapula, and then the bruit and pidsatioii cannot be made to cease in it. All these signs are commonly somewhat intermittent, the pulsation appearing perhaps in the earlier stages of the disease, and disappearing as it advances ; or the reverse may occur, the pulsation and bruit becoming distinct as the disease increases in size, and meets with more resistance in its outward growth. Diagnosis.—It is of considerable importance to diagnose the difterent forms of pulsating tumour of bone from one another, as both the treatment and prognosis differ according as the disease is a “ true aneurism of bone,” or a