1021 PRO STATIC CALCULUS. I • l)C thought lulvisable to cut the patient, the stone may be pushed back into tlie bladder, and tlien crushed by a lithotrite. II It may happen that the calculus, impacted in the urethra, is only one of Iji-several ; othei*s being lodged in the bladder. In order to ascertain this, the |'8urgeon should, after removing the calculus for 'which the operation has been performed, pass a sound into the bladder, so as to ascertain whether any other concretions exist in that organ ; and if so, they should at once be remeved by the median operation of lithotomy, the incision of the membranous portion of the urethra being extended backwards to the jirostate. I once saw Liston extract two vesical calculi, after having removed one that had blocked up the urethra, by converting the perineal incision into that of lateral lithotomy. Impaction of a Calculus in the Urethra of a Boy may lead to veiy I'Serious consequences. In the majority of instances it occasions more or less I .complete retention of urine, which requires relief. This may be given in one L of two ways. 1. If the stone be near the urethral orifice, it may be extracted, I and, 2, if situated more deeply, it may be pushed back to the perinmum— I there fixed by the finger, ancicut down upon in the mesial line. It should never be pushed back into the bladder, as such an act would render lithotomy necessary. If the stone is allowed to continue fixed in the urethra very serious conse- quences may ensue. If it completely obstructs the canal, the membranous part of the urethra may give way during the violent efforts at micturition and extravasation of urine will take place. In other cases, if it be irregular in shape, a small quantity of water may pass. Under these circumstances there is intense imtability of the bladder, the urine passing with much pain every few minutes, or constant dribbling may set in. The distended bladder can be ^recognized above the pubes. Some purulent discharge will be observed about t che meatus, and there '\\’ill be some hard ill-defined swelling in the perinseum, A -with much tenderness in this region. The presence of the stone may at last ft > cause ulceration of the urethra with the formation of urinary abscess in the ['perinmum, followed perhaps by extravasation of urine into the scrotum and its liffusion beneath the superficial fascia in the usual direction, with the ordi- nary disastrous results of infiammatiou and sloughing. On passing a sound, no stone probably will be found, as this has escaped from the urethra, and is lying in a pouch in some part of the perineum, and in the midst of broken- lown areolar tissue and pus ; into this cavity the sound will readily pass. The Treatment in these cases is simple. It consists of introducing a grooved staff, placing the boy in the lithotomy position, and then freely incising the mesial line of the perinaeum, so as to open up the urinary abscess ; in this the stone may be found, or it may be so enveloped in the sloughy tissues as to escape detection ; perhaps it will escape through the wound in a fe-u' days, and l)e found lying on the bed. Should there be much hemorrhage a catheter may be tied in and the wound plugged -with salicylic or iodoform-wool ^secured by a T-bandagc. If extravasation of urine have occurred, free incisions must be made in the usual way, and the child be put upon a stimu- lating diet. f PROSTATIC CALCUIiUS. Prostatic calculus differs from all other urinary concretions in situation and composition, being formed in the ducts of the prostate gland, and composed