COMPARISON OF METHODS OF EXCISING TONGUE. 649 poisoyiimi, and septic infection are prevented by avoiding’ whenever possible tliose methods of operating which leave a sloughing surface, and by the free use of iodoform in the after-treatment. Se2dic 2nieimioniai\.\\.Q to the inhalation of decomposing matter from the floor of the mouth is a common cause of death in excision of the tongue, as in cut-throat and similar injuries. It is characterized by scattered patches of broncho-pneumonia, rapidly ending in breaking down of the lung-tissue. Sometimes, apparently by extension from these centres, large areas of lung-tissue may become gangrenous. This very fatal complication is best avoided by the use of iodoform and by drainage from the floor of the mouth in cases of removal of the entire tongue. A. E. Barker suggested and successfully practised in several cases a preliminary tracheotomy. After the operation the^ patient was made to breathe by the tracheal opening until the mouth had become clean. The introduction of iodoform has, however, so efficiently prevented septic processes in these cases that tracheotomy is now rarely required. Comparison of the Methods of Operating.—In instituting a comparison between the different methods of dealing with cancer of the tongue it should be imderatood that the same plan of treatment is not equally applicable to all cases, but that one or other should be adopted according to the size, situation and extent of the cancerous mass. If this be small and situated at the tip, this portion of the organ may be easily and safely excised. If situated towards the side so as to require the removal of perhaps the anterior third of one side of the organ, it may be best done by splitting the tongue and excising the diseased part by the ecraseur or scissors, and the same methods are equally applicable when half the organ has to be removed. If the posterior part be superficially affected the disease may be cut out and the buccal operation will then, in some cases, be found to expose the part most fiiUy. If the organ be so deeply affected that the whole requires extirpation, it can be done from the mouth by the ecraseur or by A^Tiitehead’s method. In some cases it will be found most convenient to split the tongue and remove the halves separately. If the fioor of the mouth is implicated recourse must be had to Sedillot’s operation of division of the lower lip and jaw in the middle line. If it is intended to remove the glands below the jaw Kocher’s method Anil be found the best. WhicheA^'er method be adopted, the sublingual gland should ahvays be removed either Avith the tongue or by scissors after the main part of the disease has been taken aAvay, as there are some small lymphatic glands buried in its substance Avhich are often an early seat of secondary infection. Results.—The prognosis in cancer of the tongue is alAAaiys bad. The unfortunate A'ictim of this most tenable disease is almost inevitably destined sooner or later to fall a sacrifice to it. Removal of the diseased organ in part or in Avhole may relieve for a time, but very rarely does more than this. The more acute the cancer, the more rapid will bo its recurrence, eitheiTocally or in the glands. A. E. IJarker, who has most carefully investigated this point, states that out of 170 cases collected from various sources he could only find 17 in which recunence did not take place under one year; and in the Avhole of medical literature he could meet Avith the record of only 42 cases in which the patient had remained free from recuiTence for a sufficient length of time to justify the hope that he Avas permanently relieved of the disease. One of the most successful cases on record Avas operated on by C. Heath. The cancer Avas