4 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. the orifices of the follicles. The spots may be isolated or in groups, and vary in size from a pin’s head to a split-pea. The patch soon becomes covered by an adherent scale, which is greasy to the touch. If this be removed it is found to be continuous with the plugs of altered sebaceous matter filling the dilated ducts of the follicles. The patches itch slightly, but are not actually painful. As the disease advances the spots slowly increase in size at the circumference, while the central parts become paler, slightly depressed, and cicatricial—the thin scar tissue being dry like parchment and often scaly. There is no tendency to suppuration or ulceration. Another and less common variety of the disease is described in which it commences as numerous discrete spots, and spreads by the appearance of fresh patches, rather than by extension from a single centre. Lupus erythematosus is most common on the cheeks. It may occur also on the ears, lips, scalp, and the backs of the hands. The disease runs an extremely chronic course, often lasting many years, and causing great disfigurement. It has a great tendency to relapse after apparent cure. Attacks of erysipelas are not uncommon during its progress. The cause is unknown. No distinct connection has been traced between it and scrofula or syphilis, and it is not hereditary nor contagious. It commences usually in young adult life after the eighteenth year, and is most common in women. Treatment.—No drug exerts any specific influence on the disease, and the constitutional treatment consists therefore merely in attending to the general health on ordinary principles. Locally, Kaposi states that he has found the application of Emplastrum Hydrargyri the most efficient mode of treatment. The surface may be cleaned before its application by being smeared with oil and well washed with soft soap. The plaster should be spread thickly on thin linen, and changed daily. Strong caustics are not to be recommended, and the results obtained by the application of superficial escharotics has not been very encouraging. Painting with iodine also has been recommended. It excites a certain degree of inflammation after a few applications, in conse- quence of which the sebaceous plugs in the ducts of the follicles seem to become softened and discharged, thus causing temporary improvement. Lupus Vulgaris or Lupus : Pathological Appearances.—This disease commences in the deep layer of the cutis vera. In its earliest stage circular accumulations of small round cells are seen displacing the bundles of fibrous tissue. The smTOunding vessels are dilated, and new capillaries exist amongst the cells, and thus the nodule resembles in structure ordinary granu- lation-tissue. These circular masses of cells gradually increase in size, and by their pressure destroy the tissue of the true skin and thus approach the surface, until at last the papillary layer is implicated and the new growth is covered merely by the epithelium. During this process neighbouring groups of cells coalesce, and processes of cell infiltration extend along the vessels and surroimd the hair bulbs and follicles, so that in its fiilly developed stage a lupoid tubercle consists of an infiltration, and more or less complete destruction, of the normal tissue of the skin from the papillte to the subcutaneous fat. On examining a section of a fully developed patch, non-vascular nodules composed of a giant cell, surrounded by larger “ eiDithelioid ” cells, and again by ordinary lymphoid or small round cells, will always be met with. These are identical in appearance with the nodules .of grey granulations, a fact which has led some pathologists to regard lupus as a local tubercidosis of the skin ; but this view is not generally accepted.