164 SOCIAL ANEURLmS. this, tliat, if tiiese measures fail in arresting the disease, our choice must lie between two alternatives ; leaving the patient to his fate, or having i-ecourse to the application of the ligature on the distal side of the tumour. On looking at the innominate artery Avith reference to the distal operation, we are struck by two peculiarities in the vessel, Avhich must necessarily modify to a considerable extent not only the seat of the operation, but the principle on which it is conducted. The first peculiarity to which I allude is the shortness of the trunk, which makes it impossible to apply the ligature to the vessel itself, but renders it uecessary to deligate one or both of its terminal branches. The other peculiarity is, that in no circumstances can these vessels Fig. 467. Fig. 468. Fig. 469. Bracliio-ceijhalic Aneurism : Bracliio-cephalic Aneurism : Ligatui-e of the Subclavian Ligature of the Carotid only, only. Brachio-cephalic Aneurism • Ligatm-e of the Subcla\nait and Carotid. 7 I 1 be so ligatured as to arrest the whole of the blood sent into the artery ; for although the circulation through the carotid may be entirely stopped, yet if is impossible, from the seat and extent of the disease, to tie the subclavian af any point except beyond the scaleni; hence that blood which is destined foi the supply of the branches of this vessel—the vertebral, the thyroid axis| ' the internal mammary, and the first intercostal—must continue to be pro* pelled into and through the sac. Three distinct modifications of the dista| r operation have been proposed and resorted to for the cure of aneurisms ii^ this situation : 1. Ligature of the Subclavian alone : 2. Ligature of th Of b Carotid alone ; and 3. Ligature of Both Vessels with an interval of gi-eater 0 less extent. 1. Ligature of the Subclavian only (Fig. 467) has been practii by Dupuytren, Wardrop, Laugier, and Broca. Diipuytren’s and Laugier’|iryi cases were soon fatal, and Broca’s experienced no relief and died in si months. In Wardrop’s case the tumour diminished and the patient surnvei n for two years. This partial success may fairly be attributed in a greang measure to the accident of the carotid having been occluded by the disease *!«i The results of this practice have certainly not been sufficiently favourable t tkl