1048 mSJ'JASES OF THE B LA DEER. closely a calculus when the l)ladtler is sounded ; from it, however, they may be distinguished by their fixed character, and by the impossibility of passing a sound around them. If the disease be left unrelieved it terminates fatally sooner or later, some- times by exhaustion from constant loss of blood, but more often by disease ol' the kidneys induced by the obstruction to the orifices of the ureters by the growth, or by septic cystitis extending to the pelvis of the kidney. The diagnosis can usually be made by attention to the above points ; but should this not be possible, the bladder may be explored in the following manner as practised by Sir Henry Thompson, the exploration being followed, if possible, by removal of the growth, should it seem suited for such treatment. The patient being placed in the lithotomy position, and a centrally grooved staff introduced, the median perineal section is made upon this, the membranouK portion of the urethra opened, and the finger passed into the bladder ; the interior of which may thus be reached and explored in all its parts by pressing down the anterior abdominal wall, the muscles of which must be thoroughly relaxed by full anaesthesia. Should the papilloma be found, this incision will serve for its removal. Should there be no papilloma, the method of exploration will determine the condition of the interior of the bladder, the presence oi- not of malignant disease, or of encysted calculus. The Treatment of simple tumours of the bladder was up to a recent peiiod of the most unsatisfactory character. Surgeons usually contenting themselves with restraining the haemorrhage by means of gallic acid and similar astringents. Operative means were seldom employed. It is true that Civiale removed a small growth of this kind situated near the neck of the bladder by seizing and twisting it off with a lithotrite. Warner removed a tumom’ of this kind the size of an egg from the bladder of a woman after dilating the m*ethra. Billroth removed a tumour from the bladder of a boy which proved to be in part a myo-sarcoma in others a myo-carcinoma. It was as large as the fist, and had a pedicle which appeared to be connected with the musculai' coat. The operation consisted of cystotomy by the ordinary lateral operation. But as the tumour was too large to be got away through the perineum, the bladder was opened above the pubes by a free transverse cut. The tumour was then torn away by the finger, and the pedicle cut across with a knife guarded by the finger. The patient did well. Humphry in 1877 operated on a boy who had a tumour in the bladder causing dysuria and hgemorrhage. He opened the bladder by lateral cysto-... tomy through the perineum, and removed the tumour with forceps and the finger-nail. It proved to be a fibro-sarcoma. The patient made a good recovery. Volkmann and Marcacci have both performed supra-pubic cystotomy for the removal of vesical myomata, but with fatal results. In 1881, RansvholT of Ohio, removed a tumour as large as a small peach growing from the posterior wall of [the bladder. The operation he practised was latend cystotomy; the tumour was then scraped aw'ay by means of one of \ oLkmann s sharp spoons. The patient recovered after a tedious convalescence. To Sir Henry Thompson is due the merit of having simplified the operation and placed it on a more definite basis. His operation consists in opening the urethra by tlie ordinaiy median perineal section, dilating the prostatic urethra