REDUCTION IN MASS. 8oi t.'. ii .•> I' I)!! ) !■ The openitiou without opening the sac may be practised in all forms of hernia, but is mnch more readily done in some varieties of the disease than in onhei^. It is especially applicable in cases of femoral hernia, in which the stricture is commonly outside the sac, as Avill be mentioned when speaking of that form of the disease. Of 31 cases of femoral hernia, operated on by Luke, the sac recpiired ojxjiiing in 7 only. In inguinal hernia it is not so easy to perform Petit’s operation; indeed, in the majority of cases the Surgeon AVill fail to remove the stricture in this way. This is owing to the constriction being usually seated in the neck of the sac, as is especially observable in con- genital liernia. Of 20 inguinal hernim operated on by Luke, the sac required opening in 13 instances. For the various reasons that have been mentioned, I am decidedly of opinion that this operation should always be attempted, in preference to the ordinary tme of opening the sac, in those cases in which the hernia, not having been long strangulated, presents no sign of the occurrence of gangrene in it, and more especially when it is femoral or umbilical. Even if the Surgeon fail in completing Petit’s operation, in consequence of the existence of a stricture in the neck of the sack, or the constriction of this part, no harm can have resulted; for the sac, after being exposed, may at any time be opened in the ordinary way, and the operation completed by dividing the stricture from within. AVhen the hernia is of large size and irreducible, it is of especial importance to avoid opening the sac. If it be opened, the contents wall inflame, and fatal peritonitis conunonly ensues. In these cases, as Luke has pointed out, it rarely happens that the old inherent parts are seriously strangulated, but the whole mischief seems to be occasioned and the injury to be received by the new protrusion that has taken place, and that gives rise to the tension ; and if this can be liberated and reduced, the Surgeon has done all that need be accomplished. The evidence of the reduction of the recent protrusion, although the old adherent and iiTeducible hernia be left, is usually sufiiciently obvious; the portion of gut returning -with a slip and a gurgle, with considerable diminution in the general tension of the tumour. Operation.—"With regard to the mode of performing Petit’s operation little -need be said here, as it is precisely identical with the steps of the other opera- tion up to the period of the exposure of the sac ; except that, when it is not luteuded to open this, the incision should be placed more directly over its neck. The stricture, if situated outside the sac, will then be found cither in ?ome of the tendinous structures surrounding it, or else in the subserous ireolar tissue lying upon it. After the division of the constricting bands in ;his situation, by means of a probe-pointed knife carried underneath them, >r by dissecting down upon them, an attempt at taxis may be made by x)mpressirig the tumour in the usual way, at the same time that its neck is •teadied by the fingers of the left hand. If the contents can be reduced, the iicision in the superficial structures is brought together and dressed as already described (p. 787). Should peritonitis come on, as the result of the straugu- ation, it must be treated in the usual way. If, after the Surgeon has fairly livided all the structures outside the sac, he find still that the return of the leniia is prevented by some constriction in its neck, it will be necessary to lay his ofKin and divide the constriction in the usual way. Bpednetion in Mass.—The reduction of the hernia in mass consists in the