URINARY 'CALCUIMS AND LITILOTRITY. 994 withdriiAvn, after the situation of the stone has been detected by it, and the lithotrite is introduced. Should tlie patient be' able to hold enough urine, viz., from three to four ounces, to protect his bladder from the action of the lithotrite or the fragments, the injection may be dispensed with, and the litho- trite may at once be used. As this is straight, with a sliarp elbow near the beak, some little skill is required in passing it. In doing this the Surgeon must keep his eye upon the short curved beak of the instrument, the direction and position of which must be constantly observed or rather judged of; and especial care must be taken, in carrying it under the pubes, not to injure the urethra by pushing the beak of the lithotrite forwards too suddenly, instead of winding it, as it were, under the arch of that bone. The instrument should first be introduced nearly parallel to the abdomen, the penis being held between the fore and middle fingers, and drawn over it. As the lithotrite passes down, it must be gradually raised to the perpendicular position ; and as its curve passes under the pubes, the handle should be depressed between the thighs (Fig. 880). The direction of the curve is the thing to bear in mind ; and the position of the handle must be varied in accordance with the course which this takes. The lithotrite should be well greased with carbolized |rir oil, so that the blades and screw may work smoothly. Lard or ointment |i I should not be used for this purpose, as it is apt to clog, and to entangle gritty fik bits of calculus. ' ^ ' 2. Seizure of the Stone.—The next point is to seize the stone, which will u generally be found in the situation where its presence was detected during the i f sounding of the bladder. If large, the stone will lu’obably lie low, near the ; f neck of the bladder ; if small, it is most frequently met with at the right side, j: or at the inferior fundus. Shouldj.it be situated in a depression in this region, i it may most readily be seized by introducing a finger into the rectum, and raisnic. t up the lower part of the bladder. Brodie strongly advises that the hthotrite '! ; should never be used as a sound to ascertain the position of the stone ; if this bc|i .. done, the patient suffers pain, the bladder is irritated, the urine expelled, am