249 LIGATURE OF FEMORAL—ACCIDENTS AFTER. obstructed by the pressure of the aneurism. Should the anastomosing circu- lation be sutticiently free to maintain the vitality of the limb, it is not im- probable that the recurrent blood ■would escape from the distal side of the ligature, and thus keep up the hmmorrhage exactly as in case of wound. It appears indeed that the femoral artery, in a case of secondary hmmorrhage after the application of the ligature, is in very much the same condition as an artery which has been wounded, and in which the bleeding, having been sup- pressed for some days, has returned with violence : and certainly the best course for the Surgeon to pumie is the same practice that he would follow in the event of secondary haemorrhage occurring from a Avounded vessel, viz., to cut iloirn v.po7i the bleeding part and apply a ligature to it. That such an opera- tion is surrounded Avith difficulties cannot be doubted; yet none Avould present themselves that care and skill might not overcome. The Surgeon Avould cer- tainly have to cut into a part infiltrated Avith blood, in Avhich tlie different tissues could not readily be distinguished, and the vessel when reached would be found to be inflamed and softened ; yet, by free dissection aboA^e and below the wound, a portion of it might at last be exposed, where its coats would hold a ligatm'e ; or should this not be found, the Avound might be firmly plugged from the bottom with compressed sponge ; or the bleeding aperture might be touched AAdth the actual cautery. Should these means fail, it Avould be safer to amputate the limb, than to endeavour to arrest the haemorrhage in any other way. Gangrene of the Limb is perhaps the most fr-equent source of danger after ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. It seldom occurs unless the tumour be of considerable magnitude, have become diffused, or otherAvise interfere seriously Avith the circulation through the limb. I haA^e, lioweA'er, seen it follow the operation Avhen the popliteal aiiem-ism Avas not larger than an orange ; but, in this case, there Avas much mdema and conges- tion of the limb before the operation ; and, on examination aftenvards, it was found that the popliteal vein had been obliterated by the pressure of the tumour. The gangrene may, in some cases, be prevented by the treatment that has been pointed out at p. 443, Vol. I. When it has fairly declared itself, there is necessarily no resource left but amputation, and tins operation is sufiiciently successful ; for I find that of fourteen cases in which it Avas done, there Avere ten recoveries, and but four deaths. 4’he Return of Pulsation in the Sac after the operation for popliteal aneurism is by no means of frequent occurrence : yet it has been met Avith in some instances, and Secondary Aneurism also has been found in this situa- tion. In these cases the patient should be put upon a careful dietetic j)lan, the limb Ixi kept elevated and at rest, and direct pressure a]iplied by means of a conqiress and bandage. In this Avay cures have been effected by AYishart, Turner, Briggs, and Jfistou. In conjunction Avith such treatment, or in the event of its not siilficing, the compression of the common femoral artery as it ])asses oA'er the ])ubic lione AA'ould in all probability effect a cure. iShould it not do so, and the tumour continue to increase, threatening to siqipurate, or to occasion gangrene, amputation Avould be the sole resource. If catgut be used return of jinlsation may be due to premature softening of the ligiiture. This is rccogniized liy the ])re8cnce of pulsation at the point at which the vessel was tied as Avell as in the sac. This is hardly likely to take l>lace if well-prepared gut be used, and the Avound be kc])t perfectly asciitic.