832 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. many peculiar features, it is best considered apart from other causes of obstruction. The relative frequency of these forms of obstruction is well illustrated by the statistics published by Bryant derived from the records of Guy’s Hospital, and collected chiefly by the late Hilton Fagge. Of 124 cases of intestinal obstruction, 33 were acute, 70 chronic, and 15 were due to intussusception. Of the 33 acute cases, 1 was due to internal hernia, 7 to twists, and 25 to bands causing internal strangulation. Of the 25 bands, 14 were old adhesions, 6 were connected with diverticula from the ileum, 2 with the vermiform appendix, 2 with the neck of a hernial sac, and 1 with the pedicle of an ovarian tumour. SymjJtoms.—The symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, more especially when arising from a mechanical cause, such as the formation of an internal hernia, or volvulus, are always characterized by very marked vital dein’ession. There is constipation from the very flrst ; but this symptom is not the most prominent one, and those that result are evidently, as in an ordinary case of strangulated hernia, as much the consequence of the injury inflicted upon the intestine, as of the mere mechanical obstacle to the onward passage of the fmces. At the moment of the occurrence of the strangulation, the patient is usually seized with a sudden feeling of something wrong having taken place in the abdomen ; or he is struck with intense pain at one point. This pain persists more or less throughout the case, and is sometimes violent and paroxysmal. There may be sudden syncope, though most usually the de- pression of vital power does not amount to this. Vomiting speedily occnrs, at flrst of the contents of the stomach, but after a time of stercoraceous matter; sometimes it assmnes this form almost from the very first. The abdomen becomes swollen and tender, the intestines being blown out with flatus, gBnug rise to immense tympanitic distension, rolling over one another, and occasioning loud rumbling and gurgling noises. If the abdominal walls be thin, theT’oUing of the intestines may be distinctly felt, and in many cases seen, through them: and may sometimes be observed to be continued up to one spot, where it ceases. At this point an intumescence may sometimes be indistinctly felt’ corresjiond- ing to the seat of strangulation. If relief be not afforded, the sufferings of the patient become very severe, and his mental distress agonizing. The vomiting, perhaps, becomes less frequent, but the vital depression increases, and at last death results, usually about the sixth to the tenth day, though sometimes sooner, from exhaustion, peritonitis, or gangrene. The mind remains clear to the last, the patient’s attention being intently and distressingly riveted upon the possibility of getting relief from the bowels. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—This usually arises from one of five causes ; viz., 1. The gradual obliteration of some portion of the colon in con- sequence of a malignant growth from its wall; 2. The compression of the gut by a tumour growing near it; 3. Chronic peritonitis usually tubercular, but sometimes connected with diffused malignant growths in the peritoneum ; 4. The obstruction of the large intestine by the accumulation of large masses of hardened faeculent matter ; 5. Intussusception may assume a chronic form, especially in the adult. The relative frequency of these various causes is clearly shown in Bryant’s statistics. Of 129 cases of obstruction, including intussusception, 7G were chronic : of these, 3 resulted fromfmeal impaction, 3 from pressure of tumours,