DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1124 full-sized gnm-catlieter should be passed into the Idadder and properly secured there. It should be left without a plug, so that no distension of the bladder and consequent likelihood of escape of urine between the urethra and the instrument may take place. In order to prevent urinous effusion over the integuments of the penis and scrotum, a vulcanized India-rubber tube should be attached to the end of the catheter, by which means the flow of the urine is directed away from the patient. Urethroplastic operations may be varied according to .the seat and extent of the fistulous opening. If the fistula be in i\\Q ;perinmum, the parts around being thickened and indicated, its closure may often be attained by freely and deeply paring the edges, and then bringing them together with the quilled suture, or by Sims’s button. When the fistula is scrotal, the edges should be freely pared, and the parts around widely dissected up so as to form large and thick flaps of celhilo-cuta- neons tissue, which may be brought and held together b}^ metaUic sutures or shotted clamps. In this way, if union be not obtained throughout the whole length of the fistula, it may be to a partial extent ; and, after a time, a second or a third operation will complete the cure. When the fistula is penile, the difficulties in effecting closure become immensely increased. This is owing to the thinness of the integumental Fig. 9.S8.—Urethro- plasty. Nelaton’s Oj)e- ration : First Method. Fig. 939.—Urethroplasty. Nela- ton’s Operation : Second Method. structures and the absence of subcutaneous areolar tissue in this region, so that there is not sufficient thickness of the parts for ready plastic union. In these cases, the Surgeon has a choice of four operations. 1. Nelaton has recommended the following procedure. The edges of tie fistula having been pared, the skin around, to the extent of about an me * should be dissected up subcutaneously through an opening made belo’R t e fistula, the edges of which must then be brought together by a few jxiints