8oo HERNIA. before been pointed out that in a considerable proportion of cases the inflam- mation of the peritonenm starts from tlie injured ])ortion of gut, and is not the consequence of septic processes extending from tlie wound or of septic matter introduced by the Angers of tlie Surgeon. The former causes will come into play whether the sac be opened or not, and the latter are so far con- trolled by the modern improvements in the treatment of wounds that a wound of the peritoneum is now robbed of most of its dangers. There can be no doubt, from the experience of former times, that an opening into the cavity of the abdomen made without antiseptic precautions is attended by some danger of setting up peritonitis or aggravating any that may exist at the time. It is equally certain that with all precautions we may occasionally fail in preventing sepsis in a wound seated so near the genital organs, as the dressings may accidentally be soiled with urine or displaced by the movements of the patient. The arguments therefore in favour of Petit’s operation, founded on its reducing the risk of peritonitis, cannot be said to be completely invali- dated by the general use of antiseptics. There are, however, two objections that may be urged against Petit’s operation with more justice than that it does not prevent the occurrence of peritonitis. The flrst is, that, if the intestine be not seen, it may sometimes be returned in a gangrenous condition; and the second, that the gut may possibly be returned still strangled by bauds of adhesion, or by inclusion in an omental aperture. With regard to the flrst objection, it may be stated that, if the intes- tine be in a gangrenous state, there will usually be some evidence of this, either in the change that has taken place in the general symptoms of the patient, or in the condition of the sac and its coverings, which will enable the Surgeon to guess at the condition of the enclosed parts, and will of course induce him to expose them fully and examine them thoroughly. This objection, however, cannot apply to those cases in which the strangulation has existed only for a time that would be insufficient to allow the occurrence of gangi-ene, and does not therefore oppose the performance of Petit’s operation in recent cases of strangulation. With regard to the occurrence of internal strangulation, it is excessively rare; and when it does occur, it still more rarely happens, whether the strangulation be effected by bands of adhesion or by an apertiu’e in the omentum, that the parts can be returned without opening the sac, adhesions usually existing also between this structure and its contents. But the best answer to the objections against the operation without opening the sac, are the, results that have followed this practice. Luke, who has had great experience on this subject, states that he has operated in 84 cases of hernia. In 25 of these the sac was opened; in 59 the sac remained unopened. Of the 25 in which it was opened, 8 died ; whilst, of the 59 in which Petit’s operation was performed, only 7 died. If to Luke’s cases we add those reported by N. Ward, we shall find 3G deaths in 153 cases of Petit’s operation. That the ordinary operation, indeed, of opening the sac is an exceedingly fatal one, is well known to all hospital Surgeons, and is fully proved by surgical statistics. Of 77 opera- tions for hernia, reported by Sir A. Cooper, 3(5 proved fatal; and of 545 cases recorded in the Journals, and collected by Turner, 200 are reported to have died. The result, therefore, of Luke’s operations is very favourable, when con- trasted with those in which the sac was opened ; but it must not be assumed that the entire difference is due to the sac not being opened, for every serious complication of hernia, such as gangrene of the gut, prolonged strangulation, reduction in mass, &c., necessitates the opening of the sac.