TREATMENT OF TUMOURS OF MUSCLES. 489 which it was closely incorporated. The sheath of the femoral vessels which was exposed for a considerable extent, was luiatlccted by the disease. Recur- rence took place in less than twelve months in the cicatrix, and when the secondary tumour had attained the size of an ostrich’s egg, it was removed, the patient making a good recovery ; but the disease again returned, and even- tually proved fatal. The fourth case was that of a man aged about forty, in the sole of whose foot a cystic tumour, about as large as a goose’s egg, was de- veloped, springing ii-om the flexor brevis digitorum. This was carefully dis- sected out; but in a few months the patient returned, with a solid, elastic, rapidly growing tumour, evidently a malignant sarcoma, developed in the cicatrix (Fig. 607). The foot w'as amputated, and on section the mass proved to be a soft sarcoma, and to have developed from the muscular struc- ture just named (Fig. 608). In three cases the tumours were hydatid. In one patient, a young woman, the disease was seated in the deltoid ; in another, a medical man, about .50 years of age, the tumour was seated at the outer edge of the latissimus dorsi; and the third was a gentleman about 60 years old, in whose biceps the disease commenced. In each of these cases, excision of the tumour was successfully practised. In the eighth case the tumour Avas an enchondroma in the tibialis anticus. I have seen tAA-o other cases of enchondroma in muscles : one situated in the vastus externus of the thigh ; the other in connection with the pectoral muscle. The ninth case was a sarcoma of the rectus femoris in a man aged 21, which I excised ; the tenth, a malignant growth in the anterior abdominal Avail in an elderly gentleman ; the eleventh, a soft sarcoma of the muscles of the calf in a middle-aged lady, for Avhich amputation AA^as practised ; and the twelfth, a sarcoma of the fore-arm in a lad. Tumours developing primarily in the intermuscular areolar planes are of very common occurrence ; but these are very different from, and must not be confounded with, true tumours of muscle. The Treatment of these various muscular tumours must be considered on ordinary surgical principles. When of an innocent character, as cystic or hydatid, fibrous, erectile, or enchondromatous, they may be dissected out from the muscular tissue amongst Avhich they lie, and no fear of recurrence need be entertained. When they are malignant, amputation of the limb, if the tumour be favour- ably situated for such an operation, is generally the only resource : partial operations are usually Avorse than useless, as they are followed by a speedy recurrence. Teevan has made the ingenious suggestion of applying to malignant tumours of muscle the same rule of practice that guides us in operations on bones similarly affected ; viz., to remove the Avhole of the organ that is the seat of disease, excising the entire muscle from its origin to its inseition, and thus eliminating from the system the whole of the morbid mass, which Avill be confined Avithiu its sheath—a structure that for a long time resists the outAvard pressure of a morbid groAvth. The suggestion is founded on correct pathological principles ; the only objection to it is its difficulty of application in actual practice—there being fcAV muscles so situated that they could Avith 8{ifety be completely extirpated.