URINARY CALCULUS AND LITJIOTRITY. 1014 In regard to larger stones, it is difficult at the pi-esent day to lay down any hard and fast line. Until recently, it was not considered advisable to atteini^t to crush a stone that was above one inch and a half in diameter ; but since the introduction of fhgelow’s method, many stones considerably above this size have been successfully removed. Much Avill depend on the compo- sition and density of the calculus. The chief objection to lithotrity in large stones Avas not so much that the stone could not be broken, because unless it is too large to get into the blades of the lithotrite this could usually be done ; but that the mass of fragments to come aAvay by the urethra, and the rejxiated operations required for their removal Avould produce a dangerous amount of irritation. The use of evacuators has to a great extent OA'ercome these objections for stones of tAvo inches in diameter ; but Ave are not in a position as yet to say Avhat is the maximum size that can be safely attacked. The different forms of stone vary in the ease with which they are broken up. Uric acid calculi, giving a clear ringing sound, do not disintegrate readily, Imt split up into sharp and angular spicula and scales. Oxalate of lime calculi, occurring chiefly in young people, comparatively rarely admit of lithotrity, but, Avhen crushed, break up very readily ; and, as there is usually a co-existing healthy state of the urinary organs, the cases have a favourable issue. PhoqjhaUc calculi, which are soft and friable, and do not yield angular fragments re(|uiriug repeated disintegration, may, even if of larger size than that mentioned, i)e broken up. At the same time the patient may'often derUe great benefit from the thorough washing out of the bladder with the evacuator, as these con- cretions are commonly the result of chronic cystitis, Avith alkaline decompo- sition of the urine. But the shattered state of system, and the irritable condition of the urinary organs accompanyung phosphatic calculi, often counterbalance the advantage that Avould otherAvise have been derived fr’om the character of the stone. If there be several stones, the propriety of performing lithotrity Avill depend in a great degree upon the size of the calculi. If these be small—not larger, perhaps, than small nuts, and not very numerous, the bladder being healthy— the operation may be performed with safety. I hav^e removed successfully in a feAV sittings five or six calculi about half an inch in diameter. But if the calculi be larger than that, lithotrity is not a A^ery successful procedure ; for. though each calculus may not be very large, yet the aggregate of the Avhole is considerable ; and, besides this, the calculi Avill each require a sejAarate oiAcra- tion, as it Avere, and may each contain a hard and possibly very' resisting nucleus. Occasionally the bladder contains a large number of small pea- shaped calculi. These may be successfully broken up, and^washed out through a large-eyed catheter ; from 50 to 100 separate ones may be thus removed. Sometimes a calculus, after having been broken up into several fragments, has been left in the bladder, each fragment forming the nucleus for a iieAV stone. Such cases are usually most successfully cut ; but in favourable cir- cumstances as to the condition of the urinary organs, they may be subjected to lithotrity. 8. The Conditions of the Urinary Organs that influence the pro- priety of performing lithotrity or lithotomy’’ have reference to the state of the hidneys, the bladder, the urethra, and t\\Q 2^^'ostate. As a general rule, it may be stated that, the greater the irritability of the urinary organs, the less successful Avill lithotrity l_>e. The repeated iiitro- 1 I 1 > t i ■ i I • t ■