DEFORMITIES. 516 .gradual tendency to flexion tliat all inflamed joints assume. The partial dis- location backwards is dependent on softening and conscejnent relaxation of the posterior crucial ligament, and partly also of the ligamentum patellae or of the lateral ligaments. When the head of the tibia is disi')laced backwards, it Avill sometimes be found that the ligamentum patellae has been either ])artially aibsorbed, and thus weakened ; or that it is elongated, the patella being di-awn npwairds or to one side. In either way, the action of the extensor muscles of the thigh upon the head of the tibia is weakened ; and that bone, being ^consequently brought under the influence of the hamstrings, winch also act more advantageously in the flexed position, is drawn backwards (Fig. 634). In those cases in which there is lateral rotation of the tibia, the faulty position arose either from the attitude that limb was allowed to assume during the progress of the disease in the joint, or the leg was rotated outwards by the action of the biceps overcoming that of the inner hamstrings. When the knee has been chronically contracted for some length of time, the ligamentum posticum becomes permanently shortened, from adhesion of the sides of the folds into which it is thrown by relaxation. And a similar shortening takes place also in the anterior crucial ligament when it is relaxed by displacement of the head of the tibia backwards. Hence the condition of these ligaments offers the chief obstacle to extension. Treatment of Contraction of the Knee.—Extension of the limb will prove sufficient when there is simple angular contraction. This may be done either gradually by means of the screw-splint behind the knee, or forcibly and at once, under the influence of anaesthetics. I prefer the latter method, not only as being the speediest, but as being perfectly safe and effectual. The mode of effecting forcible extension is as follows. The patient being fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, and lying on his face, the Surgeon, standing above him, seizes the foot of the affected limb with one hand, whilst with the other he steadies the limb just above the knee. He now extends the leg gradually but forcibly ; as it comes forwards, the bands of adhesion in and around the joint will be felt and heard to give way with loud snaps and cracks, distinctly audible at some distance. Should there be much resist- ance within the joint, the Surgeon may apply his own knee or elbow to the upper surface, and thus increase the force with which the limb is acted upon. In this way I have never found any contractions of the kmd now under consideration able to resist the Surgeon’s efforts, nor any difficulty in effect- ing at once the extension of the limb. Nor have I ever seen any e\’il con- sequences result; indeed, it is surprising to what an amount of force a joint that has been contracted for any length of time may be subjected without inconvenience. In these cases it would appear as if the synovial membrane lost its tendency to inflame, just as is the case with serous membranes that have been the seat of chronic inflammation and its conse- quences. Beyond some pain for a few days, and slight heat, easily subdued by cold evaporating lotions, I have never seen any ill results arise ; but care must be taken that no inflammatory action is going on within the joint at the time of this manipulation, for, if such action were present, the opera- tion would certainly be followed by injurious results. After extension has been made, the limb should bo fixed on a long splint, well padded, or on a Thomas’s knee-splint, some evaporating lotions applied, and the patient kept