209 LIGATURE OF THIRD FART OF SUBCLAVIAN. The operation just described is that commonly adopted. In order that it should be easily carried out, it is in the first place necessary that the shoulder should be depressed as far as possible, so as to bring the clavicle do^Yn. This is a matter of much importance ; for, if the clavicle be thrust upwards by the pressure of a large aneurism, or if it lie high in consequence of emphysema of the lung's, the Surgeon will have to find the artery at the bottom of a deep wound, instead of on a comparatively pilauc surface. If, therefore, the clavicle cannot be thoroughly depressed, more room must be provided in the superficial Fig. 479.—Diagram of Right Subclavian Artery in Thinl Fart of its Course, crossed by transversalis colli artery and vein. .4. Sul(Clavian artery, v. E.vternal jugular receiving transvei'salis colli veins, n. Bra- ciiial plexus of nerves. m. Omohyoid mu-scle. Fig. 4S0.—Diagram of the Relations of the Third part of the Subclavian Artery ; f. trapezius ; 0. h. omo-hj'oid; s. a. scalenus anticus ; s. m. sterno- niastoid; v. external jugular vein ; n. brachial lilexus; a. artery. parts of the wound. This is done by making a vertical incision upwards either along the border of the sterno-mastoid or from the middle of the wound for about two inches. As the artery is in these cases approached rather from above than from the front, the structures met with differ some- what from those already described. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid is always exposed, and forms an important rallying point in the operation, and the transverse cervical artery and vein will most conmionly come into view. The danger of including the lowest cord in the brachial plexus is gTeater the more the artery is approached from above. The vertical incision should always be made in fat subjects. In some cases the clavicle may lie so high that the artery cannot be exposed even with the help of the vertical incision. A case occurred to Sir A. Cooper, in which the attempt to ligature the subclavian artery for a large aneurism of the axilla was forced to be abandoned, in consequence of the clavicle being thrust up to too great a height to enable him to reach the vessel. The extent of the difficulty occasioned by this elevation of the clavicle must necessarily depend in a great measure upon the height at Avhich the subclavian artery happens in any particular case to be situated in the neck. It is not uncom- mon to find it pnlsatiug so high in the neck, that no amount of elevation of the clavicle by a subjacent axillary aneurism could raise that bone above the level of the vessel. In the majority of cases, however, (in seventeen out of twenty-five, as shown by Quain in his work on the Arteries,) it is either below the level of the bone, or but slightly raised above it; so that, if the clavicle were thnist upwards and forwards, the vessel would be buried in a deejj pit behind it. Dupuytren ivas of opinion that the artery coursed high in pci’sons who were thin, with slender long necks ; whereas, in thick, short-necked persons, with muscular shoulders, it was deeply seated. I have often verified the truth this observation, both in dissection and in examining the pulsa- tions of the vessel during life. V OL, II, T>