937 SEATS OF ORIGIF—JUMBER OF CALCULI. Fig. 833. — Uric Acid Calculi matted toge- ther. pin or straw accidentally introduced into the bladder, and some soft pliospliatic concretions that appear to be the result of an unhealthy state of its mucous membrane, may be looked upon as being local in their origin. The symptoms arising from a stone in the kidney, and during its passage to the bladder have been already described (p. 918). Though a vesical calculus often owes its origin to the descent of a stone from the kidney, yet frequently there is no evidence of its coming from such a source, but eA’^ery appearance of its being deposited in the bladder ; a nucleus being originally formed in this ^'iscus by the aggregation of some sabulous matters, around and upon which fresh deposits take place, until a true calculus is formed. In some instances, vesical calculi have been found deposited upon and incrusting foreign bodies, accidentally introduced into the bladder, such as a piece of straw, a pin, a bit of bougie, fragment of bone, &c. hiuMHER.—The number of calculi in the bladder varies considerably ; most -commonly only one is encountered ; but in about one-fifth or one-sixth of the cases operated upon, several will be found ; I: from two to six or eight are by no means uncommonly met J'ywith. Occasionally several dozens have been detected ; and I' there are instances on record in which even some hundreds of idistinct and separate calculi have been found in one bladder. 'The most remarkable case of this kind is one in which Physick 'removed from a judge in the United States upwards of a thousand calculi, varying in size from a partridge-shot to .a bean, and each marked with a black spot. Several calculi may become matted together in one large concretion, as in the annexed represen- tation of a calculus (Fig. 833) that I removed from a child four years old ; it was formed of eleven distinct uric acid calculi soldered together in r this way ; besides which, three others were loose in the bladder. When two or more calculi occur, it is remarkable how uniform they often are in shape, size, and weight, one being the exact counterpart of the other. This symmetry is remarkable when the calculi are very numerous, dozens of small stones of 3xactly the same size, shape, and weight, "oeing met with. One large calculus is very •arely, if ever, found associated with niiine- •ous small ones. When there are several calculi in the )ladder, the attrition of one against the K)ther usually causes the opposing surfaces to "KJcome smooth, thus constituting “ facets ” IFig. 834), This is probably owing to the )ladder being atonic, always containing urine, md thus not compressing and gi’inding the ^ svlculi against one another. In some cases, however, when the calculi are lumerous, there are no signs of attrition. In a patient of mine who had ifteen calculi in his bladder, all the stones were round, about the size and 1^ hape of marbles, without any facets. In other cases, again, there may be nore facets on one calculus than companion-calculi in the bladder. A second tone may occasion two or even three facets on the first, having rolled first co me and then to the other side of it. Spontaneous Fracture of a calculus will sometimes occur within the Fig. 834.—Calculi with Facets.