DRAIXAGE OF FULMOXARY CAVITIES. 703 serous and very small in amonnfc, the tube may at first be shortened till it is j just long enough to retain its position. It is then often forced out by the 'i granulations, or by the expanding lung. It is well to examine the ca^'ity carefully with a probe before removing the tube, as the space unclosed may be larger than would be supposed, from the amount of discharge. So long as a distinct cavity remains the tube should be retained. In children, especially if the opening has not been deferred too long, the wound may often be allowed to close after about a mouth. In adults, in whom expansion of the lung is often less perfect, and whose chest-walls are too rigid to sink in, many months usually elapse before the ca^'ity is closed, and in some cases comjdete recovery never takes place. Long sinuses, very troublesome to heal, are occasionally left. These commonly arise from opening too far back or too low down, or from the prolonged retention of tubes of needless length. 0. The results of the operation for empyema arc usually as satisfactory now [<QS they were formerly unsatisfactory. In children, especially if the health is otherwise good, recovery is the rule. The temperature falls immediately after the operation, and unless some complication occurs seldom rises again. If the operation be not too long delayed, complete expansion of the lung usually takes place. This is effected by the gradual adhesion of the two pleural surfaces to each other, commencing in the angle of reflexion from the chest walls to the lung. Operation foi' empyema ivithout antiseptic precautions may occasionally be necessary when the means of proper treatment are not obtainable. The Surgeon must then rely on freedom of drainage, by which it may be possible so far to reduce the quantity of decomposable matter in the chest, that the dose of septic products absorbed by the patient shall not be sufficient to cause serious constitutional disturbance. This object is best attained either by .making a free incision some inches in length between two ribs, or by the insertion of two tubes, one in the ordinary situation, and one at the lowest -possible point in the pleura. The second opening may be made upon a curved probe passed in at the upper wound. 7. In cases in which the cavity continues after many months, or even years, to discharge, showing no signs of diminishing either by contraction of the chest-walls or expansion of the lung, the operation of division of the ribs corresponding to the unclosed space, or of removal of an inch or more of bone rfrom each, has been often attended with satisfactory results in many cases. The operation can be done as already described, portions of two ribs being removed from each incision. TAPPING PULMONARY CAVITIES. The operation of tapping voraiem in the lungs in phthisical patients could not be done with certainty until the diagnosis of the existence and precise seat of such cavities could be accurately determined by auscultation ; for, ■prior to Laennec’s time, the physician could not diagnose a pulmonary cavity from a circumscribed empyema communicating 'with the lung. Hence the accounts of such an operation given by the older writers on medicine from the ‘lays of Hippocrates down to the present century must be received with scep- ticism. But that the idea had suggested itself at an early period to medical practitioners of treating pulmonary cavities by incision or tai)ping, there can Ije no doubt ; for, without going back to the earlier medical WTiters, we find