233 EESULTS OF TYING EXTERNAL ILIAC. between the point ligjitiired and the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries aftord- iu" abundant space for the safe obliteration of the vessel. In one of the fatal cases, pulsation had previously returned in the sac ; in the other three the patients died on the seventeenth, the twenty-seventh, and the forty-third days res}X3ctively. Ganyrene of the limb was the most common cause of death in Norris’s tables. It occurred in nine instances, of which cig'ht proved fatal ; one being cured by amputation. The period at which the mortification supervened varied from the third to the fourth week. The principal cause of this gan- grene is narrowing or obliteration of the neigh- bouring venous trunk, by pressure of the tumour. In the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 48!)) this is well illustrated ; the vein opposite the aneurism being completely closed. It is a very remarkable circumstance in the history of this operation, that four deaths resulted from tetanus. This sequence of this particular operation is difficult to account for, as it is a most unusual occurrence after the ligature of arteries, and is equally rare after wounds of the abdominal wall in other operations, as for hernia. The only probable explanation that offers itself is that in these cases the genito-crural neiwe, or its genital branch, may have been unduly irritated by or implicated in the ligature. Kabe’s statistics with Barwell’s supplementary cases give somewhat different results. Haemorrhage 1) 6, Fig. 4S9.—Obliteration of Femoral Vein by Inguinal Aneui’isni. occurred in 24 of the 141 cases : of these recovered and 15 died. Gangrene was fatal in peritonitis in 2, retroperitoneal suppuration in and various other causes in the remaining making a total of .31 deaths in the 141 cases. The ligature of the external iliac for amurismal varix in the groin affords a striking contrast Avith that for spontaneous aneurism ; the four cases recorded all proving fatal, two dying of gangrene, and tivo of haimoiThage. In these cases Guthrie has recommended that the tumour should be laid open, and the artery ligatured above and beloAV the aperture in it. During the operation the artery may be readily commanded above the seat of disease by the application of the abdominal tourniquet, either to the aorta or to the common iliac at the brim of the pehfls. Aneurism occasionally takes ]flace in the groin ami ham of the same side; hero the ligature of the external iliac will cure both diseases. Of four cases in AOiich this com])lication occurred, the operation Avas successful in three, one patient dying of gangrene ; and in him the popliteal aneui’ism Avas on the point of buT*sting at the time of the operation. In two of the three cases that recovered, pulsation returned in the inguinal aneurism, but disappeared after a time, liigature of the Common Iliac.—This artery Avas first tied by Gibson,