S94 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTfNE AND ANUS. traded swelliiif? must be returned by ^mntle steady pressure, and tlie })art after- wards Avell poulticed. 2. Operation.—The means above indicated are usually sufficient in ordinary cases of piles ; but if the disease attain an inconvenient size, giviii<^ rise to general irritation and local uneasiness, or if the abundance of the ha3morrhatre be such as seriously to interfere Avith the health of the patient, it Avill becoine necessary at last to have recourse to operative interference, Avith a A icAv ol' removing the diseased structures. No operation should ever be undertaken Avhilst the pile is in an inflamed state, lest unhealthy inflammation be set up ill the part ; it is also Avell to get the patient’s health into a good state, as erysipelas may otherwise follow the operation ; and before proceeding to perform it, care should be taken that the bowels have been Avell opened. If the patient is suffering from cirrhosis of the liver no operation is justifiable. There are Aa'C plans of treatment commonly adopted for the removal of piles ; viz., excision of the tumour, its strangulation by ligature, its destruc- - tion by the clamp and cautery, by crushing, and by the use of caustics. These methods of treatment should not be employed indiscriminately. The first is alone applicable to external piles; the others to the internal form of the disease. Excision.—The remoA^al of external piles is readily effected. The tumour should be seized Avith a vulsellum or hook, drawn forAvards, and snipped off with a pair of knife-edged scissors, curved upon the flat. At the same time Avhen the external piles are remoA^ed in this way, any pendulous flaps of skin in their vicinity should be excised, lest they become irritated, and constitute the basis of a fresh pile. After the excision of external piles, there is usually but trifling haemorrhage, which may readily be arrested by the application of cold lint, or a pad and Y-bandage ; should any small artery bleed, it may be pinched, and the haemorrhage thus stopped. The haemorrhage attendant on this little operation is sometimes rather profuse. Ligature.—Internal piles are usually remoA'ed by the ligature; in fact, it may be laid down as a rule in sm-gery, that no internal pile should ever be treated by excision. The reason of this difference in the practice to be adopted, according as the pile is situated above or below the margin of the anus, is the liability to haemorrhage in the one case, but not in the other. The bleeding that folloAvs the excision of an external pile is not only small in quantity, but may readily be arrested by cold or pressure. With internal piles, hoAvever, it is different; these tumours are not only more vascular, being often fed by a large central arterial tAvig, but are deeply seated, and do not readily admit of the application of means for the arrest of the floAV of blood from them. So difficult is it to stop the bleeding from an internal pile in some cases, that patients have actually lost their lives from this cause after its excision, even in the hands of some of the most distinguished Surgeons. The excision of internal piles has consequently been A-ery properly abandoned. The Operation for the Ligature of Internal Piles may most conA'eniently be conducted in the folloAving manner. The patient, having had his bowels cleared out by a dose of castor-oil on the day preceding that fixed for the operation, should have an abundant lavement of Avarm Avatcr administered about an hour before the Surgeon arrives ; and he should then be directed to sit for half an hour on a bidet, or over a pan containing hot Avater, bearing doAvn at the same time, so as to cause the piles to protrude. When all