DISEASES OF THE IJIiETlIRA. 1078 of fomentations to the periiijenm, and of hot poultices to the pubic reo-ion Brodie makes the important practical statement that, if the urine continue acid the best treatment consists in the administration of calomel and opium. This is entirely in accordance with my experience, * and where the patient ig moderately young, and the urine acid, with pulse good, calomel with opium, or Dover’s pow^der, will give effectual relief. As the cystitis subsides, the urethral ilischarge rc-appears. Pyelitis and Nephritis are fortunately very rare complications of gonoiTlKna. Murchison has recorded two cases in Avhich death mpidly followed extension to the kidney, with coma and delirium. In a case lately in University College Hospital, a slight urethral discharge w^as followed by jjain in the course of the ureter, and the symptoms of pyelitis. The disease assumed a chronic form, the pus in the urine being very abundant. Gonorrhoeal rheu- matism of a severe form set in at the same time. After about two years the patient partially regained health, the amount of pus becoming very small. In another case in tlie same hospital, a large renal abscess formed some time after an attack of gonorrhoea, to which it seemed to be directly attributable. The abscess was aspirated twice, and the patient recovered, but at his death some years after the kidney was found to be shrivelled to a small mass of fibrous tissue. Retention of Urine from Gonorrhoea may set in at any period’ of the acute stage. The obstruction is usually dependent on congestion and inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Leeches to the perinmum, the warm hip-bath, and opiate suppositories, will probably afford relief. It is always desirable to avoid using the catheter, as it is apt to lacerate the swolleu and softened mucous membrane, and thus to occasion troublesome bleeding; and w'iU always produce much pain, and increased irritation of the canal. Should, however, the retention have continued twenty-four hoiu’s, or longer, it wiU probably not give way to the means above indicated, and then it will l)e necessary to use the instrument, when a full-sized one should be very carefully introduced; a large instrument entering the bladder as easily as a smaller one, and with less risk of injury to the tender walls of the canal. When the catheter has been introduced, it is often somewhat difficult to determine whether it should be left in or taken out. If it be left in, inflam- mation is increased. If it be taken out, the Surgeon may not be able easily to introduce it again. The solution to this question is to be found in the facihty with which the instrument is passed. If it have been introduced Avithout much difficulty, it is better to withdraw it after the bladder hat been emptied, and to continue the antiphlogistic treatment, when a second introduction may not be required. If, on the other hand, the catheter have been passed with great difficulty, and be firmly grasped by spasm, it should be left in; but very active treatment must be employed to prevent it from exciting too much inflammation. It must, however, be remembered that the retention may be due to more serious conditions ; to prostatitis, to abscess in the prostate or the perinmuiii. or to inflanmiatory exudation in the tissues about the neck of the bladder, hi these circumstances, more active antiphlogistic measures will be required, with the use of the catheter twice in the twenty-four hours, and probabh fine incisions into the perinmum, if there be pus or urine extravasated into that region.