ACUTE ARTHRITIS—SYMPTOMS. 327 i e I n I .1: tk^t r< ^ffi lr!l ?i»'i £Si • I ttj' lis! d\ L li, u; !3' ; id “1 ti’ rji| screams with agony ; he cannot bear the bed to be touched, the room to be shaken, or the slightest movement communicated to the limb, any attempt at examination of the joint in such cases being attended with insupportable agony. There are usually nocturnal exacerbations, and the pain is commonly referred with especial severity to one particular spot in the joint : thus it is generally felt at the inner or under side of the knee-joint, and at the outer aspect of the hip. The heat of the diseased joint is considerable, and is often accompanied with more or less superficial redness. The sioellwig is uniform, involving the whole of the articulation, and not projecting at certain parts of it, as when the synovial membrane alone is affected ; it is generally not very considerable, and has a soft and doughy, rather than a fluctuating feel. The position of the affected limb is peculiar, and that attitude is involuntarily adopted in which the patient will have the greatest amount of ease : thus, if the knee is affected, it is semi-flexed, and the limb is rotated outwards, if the hip, the joint is flexed and the limb abducted and rotated outwards with the knee semi-flexed j if the elbow, it is bent. Spasms or startings of the limb, often of a very sharp and painful character, come on at times ; more particularly at night. Amongst the most distressing symptoms in the more advanced stages of acute disorgan- ization of a joint are the painful startings of the limb whenever the patient falls asleep. The muscles becoming relaxed the softened ligaments allow the joint to become slightly displaced ; a reflex contraction of the muscles immediately takes place and the patient wakes with a painful spasmodic jerk of the limb, inducing a feeling of alarm, that is often very distressing. The constitutional disiurlance is very severe, and of an actively febrile type. Having reached this stage, in some cases the symptoms gradually subside, the heat lessens, the pain loses its acute character, the swelling slowly diminishes, and recovery takes place after many weeks or months, the joint being left permanently stiffened from contraction of the inflamed ligaments, or sometimes finnly ankylosed, the articular smTaces being united by dense fibrous tissue or bone, according as the cartilages have been partially or com- pletely destroyed during the acute stage. More commonly as the disease progresses, suppuration takes place within the joint, which becomes hot and red, with a good deal of throbbing pain, the skin covering it is oedematous, and at last fluctuation is perceived where the coverings are thinned. In some cases the suppuration occurs with very great rapidity, and luxation of the head of the bone takes place. In other cases the synovial membrane and capsule of the joint give way without any looseness of ligaments or displacement of bones, pus becomes infiltrated into the areolar tissue around the joint, an abscess forms external to the articulation, and extensive purulent collections become diffused through the limb. As the joint becomes loosened by the destruction of its ligaments, the bones become mobile, and grate against one another where the incrustiug cartilage has been removed, thus giving rise to very severe suffering. The cartilages may, however, in some cases be very extensively destroyed, and yet no grating take place ; this is owing either to the destructive action being limited to the edge of the encrusting cartilage, the opposed surfaces being sound, or else to the interior of the articulation Ixiing filled up with granulation-tissue after the removal of the cartilages. Hut though abscess, either within the joint or external to it, usually forms when the boiies grate and the cartilage disintegrates, yet it occasionally