453 FPiOGNOSIS OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE. cases much will depend on the patient’s constitution. If that be highly scro- fulous or tubercular, the prognosis becomes correspondingly bad. When the bones that enter into the composition of the hip are the primary seat of disease, the case assumes a much graver aspect, but even then under proper treatment, there is a good prospect of cure. I believe that much will depend on the situation and extent of the caries, and on the question whether it be primary and tuberculous, or secondary to disease of the soft joint- structures. In the latter case the head of the bone, denuded of its incrusting cartilage, softened and carious upon the surface, may be thrown on to the doi-sum ilii ; profuse and long-continued suppuration will ensue, yet, under good and careful management, and without operation, I have in some instances seen recovery take place. In those cases in which the disease is primarily femoral, and dependent upon tubercular deposit in the head of the thigh-bone, the prognosis is not favourable, for although in a certain proportion spontaneous cure may take place, under proper treatment even without operative interference, a large munber die from general tuberculosis or worn out by hectic induced by the long-continued suppuration. The condition of the pelvic lones is one that more materially than any one other circumstance influences the prognosis in cases of coxalgia. When the acetabulum alone of these bones is affected, the prognosis will turn upon whether this acetabular disease be primary or secondary. If it be primary, intrapelvic abscess will probably form, pointing above Poupart’s ligament; and whether the head of the thigh-bone be dislocated or not, I believe that death must necessarily ensue, unless the diseased osseous structures be excised. If it be secondary to disease of the head of the thigh-bone, the condition of the acetabulum need not seriously affect the prognosis. In these cases the head of the bone becomes dislocated, and this very displacement is the flrst step towards the cure of the disease in the acetabulum. The surface of this cavity, which is roughened, and deprived of its incrusting cartilage, speedily becomes covered by granulations. These become developed into fibrous tissue ; and in the course of a short time the whole cavity becomes filled up by a dense fibroid growth, which is in fact the medium of repair of the diseased and disused acetabular cavity. When the disease extends to the osseous structiu’es around the acetabulum, such as the rami of the ischium and pubes, the body and the tuberosity of the ischium and the upper lip of the acetabulum, and even the dorsum of the ilium, it usually partakes more of the nature of necrosis than of caries, and is perfectly incurable, except by operation. In extensive pelvic disease such as this, natural means are quite unable to effect a cure, and the patient must die of hectic or intercurrent disease, unless recourse be had to the excision of the head of the thigh-bone and the whole of the necrosed and carious osseous structures. The report of the “Committee of the Clinical Society appointed to inquire into the value of excision as a means of treating disease of the hip-joint in childhood,” contains the most accurate information we possess concerning the death-rate of hip-disease, in the statistics furnished by Howard Marsh of the cases treated by him in the Alexandra Hospital for Hiji-discasc in Childhood, l>etwcen 1HC7 and 1870. The total number of cases amounted to 401. These may be divided first into 277, or DO per cent, in which suppuration took place.