147 rtTftai TREATMENT BY FLEXION. wound of the brachial artery by forced flexion of tlie ell)Ow, aided by direct compression, and one of the radial by flexion of the wrist, published in 184G I memoir, in which he stated, as a conclusion from his observations, that liny aneurism of the forearm or leg might be treated by means of flexion Df the limb in which it was situated. To A. Thierry is due the honour of } I laving been the first to cure a traumatic aneurism of the bend of the arm by ril'flexion of the limb. This was in 1852 (Richet, Diet, do Med. et de Chirurgic, {I'Vol. II., p. 888). In 1857, Mamioir of Geneva applied the flexion-treatment «ir X) a large aneurism of the ham. Forced flexion could not be borne on account j- )f the pain it occasioned, and the patient was therefore allowed to walk on |> crutches with the leg bent, and supported in a kind of stirrup attached to the jl opposite shoulder. In less than three weeks the cure was effected, which [ Mannoir found a year afterwards to be permanent. In the following year, 1858, Hart applied this method of treatment successfully in a case of ^jf oopliteal aneurism, and to him is due the merit of having been the first to ^ ntroduce it into this country. Flexion is necessarily applicable only to arteries situated at the bend of • oints, as the elbow or ham, in which the circulation can be directly controlled oy bending the limb, or in traumatic aneurisms in the limbs below these joints, : n which the fiow of blood through the feeding artery can be stopped in the : fame way. Its application is therefore somewhat limited, and its use is still i' further restricted by the pain and insupportable annoyance occasioned in many cases by forced flexion of the limb, necessitating, as in Mamioir’s case, a ’elaxation of the method, which, however, was still effective in curing the meurism. Nothing can be simpler than the details of this plan. It consists, in the lower ; imb, in applying a bandage as high as the knee and then gradually flexing : he leg upon the thigh, so that the heel is brought up towards the buttock, I'vhere it is retained by a strap or bandage. The patient is at the same time confined to bed, and put under proper constitutional treatment. By this » means, the popliteal artery being bent at an acute angle, the circulation ’• hrough it is nearly, if not completely arrested ; and the obstacle to the flow •)f blood is still further increased by the compression of the tumour between he posterior flat surface of the femur and the upper part of the calf. In this vay the aneurism is most favourably situated for the consolidation of its contents, which, in the recorded cases, has often taken place at an early oeriod. The principle on which the cure is effected in these cases appears to be, that 3y flexion the artery leading to and from the sac, and the aneurism itself, are !0 compressed that retardation of the circulation ensues, and deposition of .laminated fibrine takes place in the usual way. The compression by flexion, like every other method of treating aneurisms, % occasionally fails. It is most likely to be attended by success in those cases in ■vhich the aneurism is small, situated low in the popliteal space, and in a young ')r middle-aged subject, who can bear the continued flexion without much nconvenience. When flexion is not sufficient of itself to cure an aneurism, it may very idvantageonsly be had recourse to in addition to other methods of treatment, nore especially with that by digital compression. The statistics of the treatment by flexion rcrpiirc to be carried down to the ii