970 URfXAUy CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. tlmt moinbriinous portion, of tlie urethra, that this can scarcely be opened without wounding’ it. Missing the Urethra altogether, and oj^ening u)i the bladder through or even altogether heyond the prostate, is an accident that may hap[)en if the Surgeon miscalculate the depth of the ])erinaium, and keeping the incisions too low, thrust the knife too deeply. It is, I believe, an inevitably fatal accident, as in it the base of the bladder and the recto-vesical fascia ai’e opened, and the patient is thus exposed to the occurrence of dilfuse inflannuation of, and infiltration into, the pelvic areolar tissue. I was present many years ago at the^jos^ mortem examination of a hital case of lithotomy, in which perhaps the most skilful operator of that day had ojiened the bladder beyond the prostate, leaving the urethra untouched ; the jiatient died from the cause just stated. Wound of the Rectum occurs more frequently than is generally supposed. It may happen either-in consequence of the staff being too much depressed, of the edge of the knife turned too directly downwards, or of the rectum Ijeing distended and overlapping the sides of the prostate. I have also known the lower part of the rectum perforated by the Surgeon’s finger, whilst depressing the gut so as to keep it out of the way of the knife. The Treatment of this ; accident will vary according to the size and situation of the aperture. If it ; be of but moderate extent and low down, just above the aims, it will probably ; close as the wound granulates and the urine resumes its passage through the i urethra. If the incision be more extensive and higher up, the patient will | incur the risk of the miserable infirmity of recto-vesical fistula being induced. : In such circumstances, the proper treatment is to divide the sphincter ani i from the opening downwards, and thus to lay the gut and wound into one cavity j which will probably fill by granulation, and thus close the urinary passages. Wound of the Posterior Part of the Bladder is very rare ; yet it has happened in consequence of the knife being thrust too deeply along ;; the groove of the staff, more particularly in operations on childi-en, and would ' ■ be specially apt to happen in such cases if the bladder did not contain suffi- | cient urine at the time. This is an additional reason for injecting the bladder before operating. ' ■ In children^ the lateral operation of lithotomy presents certain special diili- <mlties which have already been adverted to. These are : 1, the Surgeon missing the bladder and opening up the recto-vesical space (p. 9G0) ; 2, not ^ opening the urethra and neck of the bladder sufficiently with the loiife, but : pushing these parts before the finger, and so tearing across the urethra, and i thus necessarily being unable to complete the operation (p. 0G8) ; and 3, running the knife too far along the groove of the staff into the bladder, and | thus wounding the posterior part of that organ. Sources of Danger anu Causes of Death after Lithotohy.—Litho- : I tomy, even in healthy subjects, is always a dangerous operation ; and, though the rate of mortality doubtless depends greatly upon the dexterity and skill of I the operator, more is, I believe, due to the constitution and age of the patient, j and especially to the state of his kidneys. Sir B. Brodic most justly says, | “ Success in lithotomy most undoubtedly depends in a great degree on the I manual skill of the Surgeon, and on the mode in which the oi3eration is per- i formed ; but it depends still more on the condition of the patient with respect j i to his gcjieral health, especially on the existence or non-existence of org’anic | ) disease.” That the mere cutting into the bladder is not a very dangerously ; I