846 INTEST IN A L OBSTIi V CT10 N. from the umbilical region, in a case of retention of fseces produced by ' “ scirrhns ” of the upper part of the rectum. Tjittre’s operation is thus performed. An incision is commenced at the I level of the left anterior superior iliac spine and carried downwards and inwards, nearly parallel to roupart’s ligament for from two and a half to * three inches. The muscles and fascia transversalis fascia are then divided in ' the same way as in the operation for ligature of the external iliac artery. The ! peritoneum is then opened and the distended sigmoid flexure usually at once ' presents in the wound. It is then drawn into the Avound and secured by a ' sufficient number of stitches. These should be made to include the peritoneum I and skin in the abdominal wall, but should miss the muscles. If the case is not urgent the stitches may be made to penetrate the muscular and serous ! coat only, and the gut left unopened till the third or fourth day. If it is ii' necessary to open the gut at once, the sutures may penetrate the whole thick- j ■ ness of the gut. On opening the peritoneum a piece of small intestine may ), present instead of the colon ; this is recognized by the absence of bands and appendices epiploicm, and by the fact that if its mesentery be gently pulled it i will be felt to be fixed towards the right while the colon is fixed to the left side. i Amussat’s Operation, or Lumbar Colotomy.—In order to aAmid the complication of Avounding the peritoneum, CaUisen, of Copenhagen, in 1790 proposed opening the colon from behind, in the left lumbar region, where it is not covered by peritoneum. He once attempted this operation on the dead body of a child ; but, failing in his endeavour to reach the intestine without wounding the serous membrane, he seems to have relinquished all further idea of it ; and it Avas subsequently rejected as impracticable by aU writei-s on surgery Avho treated of this subject. The operation of colotomy proposed by Callisen, was first practised and perfected by Amussat. It is one of the most important additions to operative surgery, and affords an admirable illustration of the important practical application of an apparently trmal anatomical fact, viz., the relation of the layers of the meso-colon to the descending colon. Amussat, at the time when he was attending the celebrated Broussais for that “ scirrhous ” affection of the rectum of which he ultimatelv died, was led to reflect on the resources that Surgery offers in similar cases; and after making some experiments on the dead body, Avith the Anew of contrasting the merit of the different operations that have been proposed for the formation of artificial anus in cases of obstruction of the large intestines, he became conAunced that the operation proposed by Callisen, if someAvhat modified, was not only prac- ticable, but safe. He soon had an opportunity of putting this opinion to the test of actual practice in 1839, in a private case, at Avhich he kindly invited me, then a student in Paris, to be present; and since this time the operation has taken a recognized position in Surgery. The following is the best method of performing Lumbar Colotomy. If the operation is to be performed in the ordinary situation, the patient must be placed on his right side, with a firm folded pilloAV beneath the flank, so that the body may be slightly curA'^ed to the right side, and the space betAA’ecn the last rib and the crest of the ilium on the left side made as AA'ide as possible. The Surgeon then measures from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium, carrying the tape straight fmin one to the other, and not