II. Foreign body in the trachea or bronchus (T). LARYNGOTOMY AXD TRACHEOTOMY. 6S5 f f t Ml Mi 'll I 't I I ■e;» [> v.i> s ® 1 i i I f. f ’ recommenced, and the patient eventually recovered. She lias never, liOAvever, been able to breathe without the silver tube, ■which she wears in her ■windpipe up to the present time. In another case to which I was hastily summoned by my friend ^Ir. Tweed, I found the patient, a youn^ wcman, in the last stage of asphyxia from acute disease of the larynx. I immediately jn’oceeded to operate. As the patient’s neck was short and thick, and the veins excessively turgid, there was profuse lunmorrhage on the first incisions being made; while we Avere Avaiting a minute or tAA’o until this Avould cease before opening the Avindpipe, the patient fell back and apparently expired. 1 lost no time in plunging the scalpel into the crico-thyroid membrane, and cutting doAA'n through the cricoid cartilage, so as to make a free aperture into the air- passjige. On endeaA'ouring to set up artificial respiration, I found the air- passages clogged Avith inspissated mucus, AA’hich prevented the entrance of air into the lungs ; the life of a fellow-creature being at stake, and dependent on the immediate and full establishment of artificial respiration, I felt that there AA'as only one thing to be done—to empty the chest of the matters loading it, and that this must be done instantaneously. I accordingly applied my lips to the AA-oimd, and sucked out three or four mouthfuls of blood and mucus, AA'hen I had the satisfaction to see that air could be made to enter the lungs. x4fter artificial respiration had been kept up for some time, the heart began feebly to act, the face became less livid, and the circulation Avas re-established; the patient eA’entually did Avell, and is noAV alive and in good health. Operations.—In opening the windpipe, the Surgeon has the choice of two situations in which he may make the aperture ; either in the crico-thyroid membrane by Lar3mgotomy, or in some part of the trachea by Tracheotomy. Besides these tAvo established operations, some Surgeons haA'-e performed a third—Laryngo-tracheotomy, by opening the crico-thyroid membrane, and dividing the cricoid cartilage Avith the upper rings of the trachea. IVhicheA’er operation is performed, so soon as the Avindpipe is oiDcned, the patient is seized Avith an attack of spasm and convulsive cough, often attended by much struggling and distress, during Avhich the Avhistling occasioned by the pa.ssing of the air through the neAv passage is A'ery loud and marked. The patient, hoAvever, soon recovers, and then breathes naturally and easily, the signs of asphyxia disappearing. The Avindpipe may recpiire to be opened either by laryngotomy or tracheotomy for the folloAviug conditions (L = Laryngotomy: T = Tracheotomy) :— I. Acute laryngitis Avith oedema of the glottis in the adult (L), ’2. Chronic oedema of the glottis Avith suffocating spasms (L). 3. Syj)hilitic or other ulcerations of the glottis Avith chronic oedema (L). 4. ^lembranous laryngitis in children (T). o. ^Membranous laryngitis in adults (L). (I. Necrosis of the cartilages of the larynx with obstructive thickening of tissues (T or L). 7. Ej)itheIioma of the epiglottis and other growths obstructing the laryngeal orifice (L), H. Tumours in the larynx (Ti). !). Hcald of glottis by boiling Avater or acids (T or L, according to age of patient). 10. Foreign bodies impacted in the larynx (Ti).