700 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUEE AND CHEST. ratJiGr than to surgery, a-ud need jiot he discussed here. In all cases of doubt the diagnosis may be readily made by means of the aspii-ator. The presence of pus having- been determined, there should be no delay in removing it. The longer it is left, the more firmly the lung becomes bound down by adhesions, I and the probability of its perfect expansion becomes less. ‘ Moreover, the pus may buri-ow beyond the limits of the pleural cavity, finding its way down- wards into the iliac fossa, or more rarely into the abdominal cavity, and thus add greatly to the gravity of the case. In a certain ])ro])ortion of cases empyema may be cured by simple aspiration. It is advisable therefore always to attempt this before proceeding to the oiieration of opening the pleura by an external incision. If after withdrawing the fluid, the temperature falls, the general symptoms improve, and the fluid re-accumulates slowly, aspiration may be repeated with some hope of success. If, however, the relief is very slight and temporary, it is wiser at once to open the pleura and drain the cavity. The operation of opening the pleura for empyema, though one of the most ancient in surgery, was until recently so unsatisfactory in its results that it j was resorted to only in the last extremity. The fatal result that so frequently ; followed was due to septic fever and prolonged suppuration consequent upon | imperfect drainage and decomposition of the retained fluid. With the view j of preventing the accumulation of pus and diminishing the risk of septic j poisoning Goodfellow and De Morgan adopted the use of Chassaignac’s | drainage-tubes with considerable advantage; but it was not until the introduc- i tion of efficient antiseptic treatment that the operation became really safe and [ successful. In discussing the operation the following points have to be ! considered :—1. The best point for making the opening ; 2. The method of | making it; 3. The form of tube ; 4. The dressing and after-treatment; | 5. The removal of the tube ; 6. The results ; and 7. The subsequent treatment i of the cavity should the lung fail to expand. 1. The lest point for the ojoening is the subject of considerable difference of opinion. Many Surgeons, following the ordinary rnle of opening an abscess at its most dependent part, make tlie incision as far back and as low down as possible, the point chosen being either immediately below or a little in front of the angle of the scapula, in the seventh, or even as low as the ninth inter- costal space. The advantages of this situation are however very doubtful. A patient suffering from empyema usually does not lie flat upon his back but inclined towards the affectecl side so as to allow- the freest possible play for the sound lung. An opening in the mid-axillary line will therefore be more dependent wdiile the patient is confined to bed, and at least equally so when he is in the erect position. Moreover, the ribs posteriorly lie close together, making it difficult to insert the tube, and are thickly covered with muscles, necessitating a longer incision and more discomfort to the patient after the operation. Another and a more serious objection is that as the limg expands it first comes in contact with the chest walls posteriorly, the two pleural surfaces meeting last in front of the mid-axillary line. An opening made too far back is liable to become early overlapped by the expanding lung, and drainage is thus seriously interfered with, or a sinus difficult to heal ma}^ be left running ; forw’ards towards the anterior part of the chest. In cases in which the expan- sion of the lung is imperfect the diaphragm may rise up and obstruct the the opening if it be made too low. John Marshall has pointed out that immediately outside and below- the 1