56 DISEASES OF VEINS. If superficial, the Tein can be felt as a hard cord, with knot-like projections at tlie situations of the yalves. If a deep vein is affected, there is oedema of the part fi’oin which it comes, often with dilatation of tlie superficial veins. Tlie swollen parts arc white, and pit deeply on pressure. When the coats of the vein are inflamed, the symptoms of phlebitis to be presently described will be manifest. The Treatment depends entirely on the cause. When it is a part of the pyEemic process, it is that of pyrnmia ; when associated with phlebitis, it must be treated as described under that disease. CEdema must be treated by eleva- tion of the limb and careful bandaging with an elastic or stocking bandage. In all cases perfect rest of the part must be maintained in order to obviate as far as possible the risk of embolism. PHLEBITIS. Infiammaiion of the Veins originally studied by Hunter, has in later years attracted the attention of many distinguished Continental and British patho- logists, amongst whom may be specially mentioned Breschet, Velpeau, Cru- veilhier, Arnott, Henry Lee, Tessier, and Virchow. Causes.—Phlebitis may arise from injury of the coats of the vein, from inflammation of the tissue surrounding it, periphlebitis, or from the formation of an unhealthy thrombus within it. Each of these causes may occur sepa- rately, but frequently more than one are concerned in the process. In other cases phlebitis is said to be idiopathic, which means that the cause cannot be accurately ascertained. Tramiiatic phlebitis may be simple and localized, or septic and spreading. The coats of a vein, in the same way as any other tissue, become inflamed if submitted to any injuiy of sufficient intensity, whether it be the application of a ligature in a surgical operation, accidental mechanical violence, or the action of caustics. As the result of the injury, a clot forms within the vein, adherent to the damaged spot. If this completely occludes the vessel, it extends upwards and downwards as far as the vein contains stagnant blood. The inflammation is however limited to the injured spot, and shows no tendency to extend. Ultimately the clot may become absorbed, and the channel of the vein restored, or the vessel may become pennanently obliterated by the processes already described as occuiTing in arteries under similar circumstances. Traumatic phlebitis does not however always run this simple course. When the discharges of the wound through which the vein has been injured are in a septic condition, and the plugged vein is exposed to the direct contact of putrid matter, the thrombus may become infected. It then softens and decomposes, and thus excites inflammation in the coats of the vein, spreading beyond the part originally injured. Fresh clot, which in its turn decomposes, forms in the vein as far as the inflammation extends ; and so the process may spread until some part is reached at which a large vein joins the affected trunk, when fragments of the softening clot are washed on, giving rise to the dissemination of septic emboli and pyeemia. It is this form of spreading phlebitis that was formerly so common in hospital practice. The earlier pathologists regarded the spreading inflammation of the vein as the primary cause of the mischief, whereas it is evident that it is really due to the changes taking place in the thrombus.