t I OPERATIOXS FOR RADICAL CURE OF JIERXIA. 765 lx}t\veen the crest of the ilium jiiid the trochanter, and terminating at the ring t again. The Surgeon must also inform the instrument-maker, ot the nature of ji'the hernia, the side on which it is situated, the size of the ring, the age, 'Sex, and physical power of the patient. He must state also if his occupation is such as to necessitate a spring of more than ordinary strength. Radical Cure of Hernia.—Various means Iuia'c been devised in order to effect the radical cure of a reducible hernia. The only plan that is perfectly free from danger, is the compression of a well-made truss. In this way, not unfrcquently, the hernias of infants become radically cured ; the same result, however, seldom occurs at a more advanced period of life. In order that compression in this way may succeed, it is necessary that it should be applied not only to the external aperture through which the rupture escapes, but to the whole of the canal. It must also be continued for a very considerable time, at least a year or two ; and care should be taken that during the treatment the rupture is not allowed to descend. Every time it comes down, any good that may have been derived is necessarily done away with, and the treatment has to begin, as it were, anew. Radicid cure of a hernia by truss-pressure can be leffected only in those cases in which the abdominal aperture has been left con- :genitally weak or open. Hence it is to be hoped for only in children and 'Very young adults, and only in those two congenital forms of hernia—the um- bilical and the inguinal. The continued pressure of the truss-pad in these ' cases seems to determine those adhesive processes which are necessary for the closure of one of the abdominal apertures. After the cure is supposed to have been effected in this way, the truss must be worn for a very considerable length of time, lest by any unfortunate movement the rupture be forced down : again. The Operations that have been devised for the radical cure of hernia are ; all founded on one of three principles; viz., the excitation of such an amount »cf peritonitis in the sac, or its neck, as to cause its obliteration ; the plugging < of the hernial aperture by invagination of the sac and subcutaneous tissues, or tthe complete removal or invagination of the sac with closure of the ring by .'Sutures. If the accomplishment of these conditions would always prevent the recur- • rence of the rupture, the radical cure might frequently be undertaken. But it is 1 impossible to look upon the agglutmation of the walls of the sac, or the closure ■ cf the abdominal aperture, or even the removal of the sac, as the sole conditions : required. To accomplish the radical cure, it would be necessary in many cases to effect changes in the shape and connections of the abdominal contents, to . niter the size of the abdominal cavity, and indeed to modify in various ways •many conditions independent of those immediately connected with the hernial ; protrusion. [Many of the means of radical cure, by which obliteration of the >interior of the sac or of its neck is sought to be effected by the introduction <of caustics, by scarification, puncture, or injection with tincture of iodine, arc a attended with so much danger from peritonitis, and are so seldom followed by 1 good results, that their consideration need not detain us here. The operations that are now practised for the radical cure of hernia are con- a <luctcd on three principal plans, liowever much they may be varied in their ' details by the ingenuity of particular (Surgeons. The first method of treatment consists of invaginating simply a portion of ! the scrotum, and fixing it in the inguinal canal, where it becomes adherent, 1 f I