TEE AT ME NT OF SYNOVITIS. 325 In the latter instances, the symptoms of acute inflammation will always have preceded. Treatment.—The treatment of synovitis depends partly on the severity of the symptoms, and partly on the cause of the disease. If a joint have been injured subcutaneously, and synovitis be apprehended, or indeed have com- menced, no treatment will be found more eflicacious than the continued appli- cation of ice in India-rubber bags of sufficient size to envelope the whole of the joint. In this way the inflammation may often be checked or completely arrested, the joint being, of com’se, kept at the same time perfectly at rest on a splint or in a sling. Should the disease have made progress, and should the ice fail in arresting it, then, if the patient be young and strong, the free and repeated application of leeches to the inflamed articulation, followed by fomentations and accompanied by perfect rest of the part on a splint, or on pillows properly arranged, will be the most useful treatment. At the same time, saline purgatives with antimony must be given, and the patient kept on a low diet. The treatment of synovitis following open wounds has been fuUy described in the Chapter on Wounds of Joints. If the disease be rheumatic, leeches may be applied, followed by hot fomen- tations, and rest of the part in the elevated position : at the same time salicy- i late of soda may be given in ten-grain doses if there be much febrile • disturbance, and Dover’s powder should be administered if there be much pain at night. In some instances great benefit will result from the administration • of Dover’s powder and calomel, in small but frequent doses. If the patient be gouty, colchicum should be given. When the disease is of syphilitic origin, the application of blisters, followed by calomel and opium, will be attended with : marked success. When the synovitis is subacute or chronic, the same principles of treatment 1 must be adopted, modified according to the intensity of the affection. In these I forms of the disease, rest is perhaps the most important element in the treat- 1 ment, everything else proving nugatory unless this be attended to ; the limb ! is usually best fixed by leather splints, buckled on so that they may be removed : in order to make the necessaiy applications to it. In these cases, repeated blisterings over the whole of the joint constitute perhaps the most useful local 1 means that we possess : in a more advanced stage, counter-irritation by means I of stimulating embrocations, together with douches, either of warm sea-water t or of some of the sulphm-ous springs, such as those of Aix or Bareges, will j prove most useful ; and when all inflammation has been subdued, and weak- ) ness of the joint merely is left, the joint should be properly strapped with I soap-plaster, spread upon leather. Amongst the internal remedies likely to be « of most service, may be mentioned the iodide of potassium, either alone or in I some bitter infusion. In hydrarthrosis, rest and repeated blistering will usually promote the ) removal of the fluid. In addition to this, the employment of pressure either 1 by means of strapping or Martin’s India-rubber bandage, and friction, with t absorbent remedies, as the iodine or mercurial ointment or oleate of mercury ( conjoined with the internal administration of iodide of potassium or with a I mild mercurial course, will often procure the absorption of the fluid. If these I means fail, the aspirator may be used to empty the joint of its fluid, the I puncture being closed with collodion, and in extreme cases we have a very ] powerful method of cure at our command in the injection of the joint with