VARIETIES OF STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 1085 merely by areolar tissue ; the external lying outside the corpus spongiosum, 'bi'tween it and its fibrous investment. At the anterior extremity of the iiirethm they unite again and form its lips. Thus the urethra is surrounded 'through its whole length by muscular fibres, a double layer of which invests it at the membranous portion, and again at the external meatus. The prostate and corpus spongiosum are included between planes of these fibres. The vesicles and ducts of the prostate are surrounded by layers of involuntary 'fibres ; those of the ejaculatory ducts coming from the non-striated layer of the vas deferens. These fibres are totally distinct from the common muscular apparatus of the perinmum ; and their existence proves the urethra to be a ■ musculo-membranous canal. By Stricture of the Urethra is meant a narrowing of the canal at one or 'more points. These may jn'oceed fr’om three distinct conditions ; viz.—1, 'Spasmodic Action of the layer of the involuntary. Muscular Fibres situated I outside the mucous membrane ; 2, Congestion of the Mucous Membrane of : the canal; or, 3, Organic Changes in the Mucous and Submucous Tissues, I consisting of thickening, induration, or the deposit of plastic matter within tthem. According as the disease arises fr’om one or other of these causes, iit may be tenned a Spasmodic, a Gongestive, or an Organic stricture. These (different forms of the disease having the one condition—narrowing of the I urethra—and its consequences, in common, and in practice being often 1 associated, present so much variety in their symptoms, in the treatment they : require, and the constitutions in which they occur, as to require separate ' description. Spasmodic Stricture.—The existence of this form of constriction has been much cavilled at. Surgeons, disregarding the evidence of their own senses, and being led away by an imperfect anatomical examination of the urethra, have denied the possibility of spasm of this canal, not being able to demonstrate the existence of any muscular fibres in sufficiently close proximity to the mucous membrane to influence it by their action. The possession of muscular contrac- tility by the urethra is, however, obvious from the facts that a bougie may occasionally be introduced with sufficient ease, but that the Surgeon, on attempting to withdraw it, will find it tightly grasped ; so also, occasionally, on introducing the instrument, he will feel it meet with an obstruction, which on steady pressure vdll yield with that species of quivering that is peculiar to spasm of muscular fibre. Again, the fact that a patient will at one time pass his urine with the most perfect freedom, whilst, if it be rendered acrid or acid by drinking spirits, effervescent wines, or other similar beverages, almost com- plete obstruction will ensue, tends to prove the existence of an occasional spa.smodic constriction of the canal. The effect of anaesthetics in facilitating the passage of a catheter must also be attributed to relaxation of spasm. These facts, though sufficiently convincing to many Surgeons, had failed to carry proof of the existence of spasmodic stricture to others, until the researches of Kdlliker and Hancock, which have been referred to, set the question of the muscularity of the urethra finally at rest. Uauses.—The causes of spasmodic stricture are generally such conditions as wcasion an irritable state of system, as long residence in hot climates, especially if conjoined with habitual excesses in drinking, high living and sexual indulgences. The more immediate causes are usually any circumstances that occasion irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, which, being pro-