DEFORMITIES. 528 results, but Avas not al)le to dispense witli prolonged use of a])paratus after- Avards. In 1870 Davies-Colley recorded a case in Avhich he removed a Avedge- shaped pieee of the tarsus of sufficient size to allow of the anterior part of the foot being brought into a straight line with the posterior., ^’he ojAeration was peifoiined by a long incision on the outer side of the foot from the middle (jf the os-calcis to the middle of the fifth metatarsal bone. From the middle of this another Avas ciu-ried across part of the dorsum. The cuboid Avas first removed, after AA'hich a AA’edge-shaped portion of the tarsus Avas rcmoA'ed “ withoirt paying any regard to its articulations.” The bones removed inclirded the Avhole cuboid, parts of the os-calcis, of the three cuneiform bones, nearly all the scaphoid, and a part of the head of the asti’agalus. This operation has been repeated by R. Davy and others with the most satisfactory results. Iir Davies-Colley’s case the patient could jump and hop six months after the operation. If the heel is much draAvn up, the tendo Achillis cair be divided after the operation. Davies-Colley found the most convenient apparatus dirring the early part of the after-treatment, to be “a back-splint extending froirr the middle of the thigh to within four inches of the heel. To the distal end of this Avas fastened a transverse bar of wood, terminating on either side in short upright bars, to Avhich the fore part of the foot Avas attached by means of strapping.” Talipes Valgus (Fig. 647) is the antithesis to varus. It is not so frequent a deformity as the other varieties of club-foot. It commonly affects only one extreinity, and is occasionally congenital. True valgus arises sometimes from contraction of the peronei, but more commonly from paralysis of their opponents. The foot is everted, the arch is obliterated, so that the sole becomes flattened. The anterior part of the foot is displaced out- AAm’ds at the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo- scaphoid articulation' and the scaphoid is partially dislocated outwards, so that the head of the astragalus projects at the inner side of the foot. The toes and anterior part of the foot are often raised so as to constitute the variety termed Cctlcaneo-valgus. The most marked forms of this variety are met vdth when the muscles of the calf, the tibialis posticus, and the flexors of the toes are paralysed. The projection of the heel backwards is obliterated, and the outer side of the foot curved round so that the little toe is approximated to the point of the heel. In extreme cases of calcaneo-valgus, the arch of the foot is sometimes increased, the heel being pointed doAvn, and the foot sharply bent at the trans- verse medio-tarsal articulation, so as to bring the toes to the ground. Treatment—In the earlier stages of acquired talipes valgus, the deformity may often be remedied by putting the patient under the influence of an anaes- thetic, forcibly draAving the foot inwards so as to OA^ercome the tension of the peronei muscles, fixing it in a Dupuytren’s splint, and afterwards restoring the arch of the foot by a convex sole in the shoe. In the more confirmed cases, the treatment consists in the division of the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis, behind the outer ankle ; and of that