URINARY CALCULUS AND LLTIIOTRLTY. lOOO The Snro'con was especially enjoined jiot to allow a longer time than from two to four minutes for each sitting ; to break up the stone in the first instance ; to pulverize it at subsequent sittings ; to allow the detritus to escape during the act of micturition ; and not even to assist its remoA'al by washing out the bladder, or at least to be very careful in doing this, usino" Clover’s aspirator for the purpose. It is true that occasionally a small calculus was broken up, pulverized, and removed at one sitting; but in the vast majority of cases several sittings were required, often as many as five or six. These were repeated at intervals of from four to six days. This state of things, the details of which have been described in the pre- ceding pages, continued up to the year 1878, when a complete change came Fig. S90.—Shut. Fig. 891.—Open. Handles of Bigelow’s Litliotrite, reduced size. Fig. 893.—Open. Jaws of Bigelow’s Litliotrite, Full Size. over the practice of lithotrity. For in that year Bigelow, of Boston, U.S.A., published, under the title of “ Litholapaxy,” or Eapid Lithotrity with Evacuation,” a method of operating, by which calculi—of larger size than had previously been subjected to this operation—could be broken up and safely removed at one sitting, often of a very prolonged character. The essential principle of Bigelow’s operation consists in this, that danger does not arise so much from the prolonged use of instruments, as from the in’itation produced by fragments left in the bladder. “ It is probable,” he says, “that injury from the use of instruments has been confounded with that resulting from the presence of fragments in the bladder.” Bigeloiv not only entirely discarded, but acted in direct opposition to the principles laid down by all previous lithotritists. He used heavy and large iustriuuents. He broke up the stone so thoroughly—comminuted, but did not pulverize it—by repeated applications of the litliotrite, that all the fragments could be evacu-