UMBILICAL HERNIA—CONGENITAL—ACQUIRED. 823 ; men, and is gradually drawn in as development advances. Congenital imi I bilical hernia or true exomphalns is the result of an imperfection in this pro- I cess. Ill other cases a diverticulum from the ileum, due to an imperfect fi closure of the ductus vitello-intestinalis, may extend some distance up the ! cord from the navel. In either of these conditions it may happen that the protrusion is included in the ligature applied to the umbilical cord. If a I large portion of intestine be strangulated in this way, a hital result usually i'; follows ; but if it be merely a diverticulum, the stump of the cord may separate [i safely, the opening in the gut being obliterated. In other cases a fiecal fistula I may form at the umbilicus. Umbilical hernia occurs more frequently shortly after birth in consequence I of the child straining and crying, forming the condition termed by nurses j' “ starting of the navel.” In this form the umbilical cicatrix yields the natural I depression, being completely replaced by the projection of the hernia. It is I readily recognized by a smooth, rounded, and tense tumour, starting forwards ij' at the umbilicus, readily reducible on pressm’e. The treatment should consist I in the application of a small pad, made of a slice of cork, Anupped in a soft piece of lint and powdered Avith starch. This must be secured in position by a circular piece of soap-plaster spread on amadou or of the American : nibber-plaster. An elastic belt Avith an air-pad is sometimes recommended, ,,and may be applied to older children, but in infants it is quite useless, as the variation in size of the abdomen, according to the amount of flatus in the intestines is such that no bandage can be really efficient. It most commonly happens that, after pressure has in this way been kept up for fe) - some months, a radical cure results. These small hernim are never strangu- s3'j i lated, and consequently never cause death ; yet it is very rare to see one in a Si ( child of ten years of age, though in infants we meet Avith them by the score. Umbilical Hernia in Adtdts most frequently occurs in women, especially those Avho have borne many children, or who are loaded Avith internal fat. It is by no means unlikely that a tendency to this disease is often established in childhood, but does not become developed until the abdominal muscles have been relaxed by the pressure of the gravid uterus. The hernia in adults does not as a rule stretch the umbilical cicatrix in the skin. This is usually clearly recognizable at the lower part of the tumour, the hernia most commonly escaping through the upper part of the umbilical aperture. Umbilical rupture generally attains a considerable bulk, and often acquires an enormous size ; when large, it is commonly irregular or semilunar in shape, sometimes appearing to be composed of seA'eral distinct tumours. It is usually partly doughy and partly tympanitic to the feel, has a distinct impulse on coughing, and is readily reducible ; not unfrequently it happens, hoAvever, that a portion of the rupture continues irreducible, owing to the existence of adherent omentum. The coverings of an umbilical rupture are usually ex- tremely thin, consisting merely of the peritonemn, a layer of condensed fascia which is often perforated at several points by circular openings through Avhich the hernia protrudes, and the integuments Avhich are expanded over the part, ind in Avhich the umbilical cicatrix is usually clearly perceptible. The sac generally contains both intestine and omentum, but the stomach and other viscera have been included in it ; and Murray has recorded a case in AA’hich the graAid uterus, at the eighth mouth of pregnancy, formed the contents of an umbilical hernia. - if * f; Jiii ':r