869 CANCER OF RECTUM—TREATMENT. i I some point, opens into the peritoneal cavity, and, by limmorrlia^’e, internal or 1 into the gut, iiidncing fatal collapse, rapidly destroys life ; and in other in- j,'-stances, though more rarely, by fiecal obstruction, as in the case of simple I - stricture. The reason why intestinal obstruction is not more common than it is in cancer of the rectum is, that in many cases the diseased mass ulcerates and necroses more rapidly than it grows into the bowel, and thus an irregular chasm is left in its centre, through which the fmces pass. Treatment.—This must necessarily in a large proportion of cases be mei’ely palliative. The bowels must be relieved by occasional doses of castor-oil or Ijy emollient enemata. The patient’s sufferings may in many cases be much relieved by limiting him to a diet composed solely of material not likely to leave any solid residue, such as carefully prepared and strained arrowroot and meat-broths of various kinds, to which a little brandy or wine may be added. If the patient at the same time be kept warm in bed in the recumbent position •so as to economise force as much as possible, he may maintain his strength M.faii’ly well on a comparatively small quantity of food. Small doses of opimn ^ may be given to relieve pain. On this diet one action of the bowels about itHf every three weeks will be quite sufficient. It will usually occur spontaneously without the necessity of administering a purgative. If there is much pain, lypodermic injections of morphia, often to a large amount, are required to lessen :he patient’s distress. As further palliative treatment Colotomy may be required. This operation • s performed for one of three reasons :—1. To relieve the intense agony resulting rTom the passage of fieces over the ulcerated cancerous mass ; 2. To relieve 'ihe suffering and great discomfort occasioned by the fmces passing into the oladder or vagina ; 8. For the relief of more or less comjDlete obstruction, giving rise to distension of the abdomen, with retained fmces. Colotomy IS a palliative has proved most successful in affording the desired relief ; py its means life may be prolonged as well as rendered more endurable. Utempted dilatation by means of bougies, the application of caustics, or :;nishing the tumour by means of the finger-forceps, as recommended by Vmussat, are worse than useless. They cause great pain and irritation, hasten ilceration, and aggravate the disease. Excision of the Tumour. Partial excision of the Rectum or Proctotomy is an i >peration which has lately been revived with considerable success. Recamier, vhdal, and others attempted the removal of the tumours when situated near he anus by ligaturing its'base and alloAving it to slough away. The only .dvantage in .such a proceeding is the absence of hsemorrhage, but this is nore than counterbalanced by the dangers arising from the presence of the loughing mass, by the uncertainty of perfect removal, and by the pain t gives rise to. Removal of the disease by excision of a portion of the rectum was first •erformed, according to Velpeau, by Fagcb in 1730. lie took away an inch nd a half of the circumference of the gut and cured his patient. The operation was revived in 1820 by Lisfranc, who removed portions of the rectum n nine cases, with five recoveries. The operation, however, fell again into •liscredit. In 18bl, Chassaignac introduced the ecraseur, and applied it to •emoval of rectal growths. Since then ISlussbiuim and A’’olkmann in Germany, Iordan, Allingham, Holmes and others in this country, have done much to re-* ive the operation]; and in 1880, Harrison Cripps published an interesting work