926 SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. tiired with a smooth round 'needle. A common darning-needle held in a paii- of torsion-forcei)s answers the jmrpose admirably. A piece of carbolized silk may he passed throngli the eye and tied round the forceps to prevent the needle from accidentally slipping- out. If, after a methodical examination carried out over the Avhole kidney, nothing- is felt,'the forefingers may be passed before and behind it, and the kidney pressed between them and the pelvis examined. Even after all this, experience has shown that a stone two-thirds of an inch in diameter may escape detection. If the patient’s sufferings have been very great, and more especially if there is an increasing discharge of pus, it may be justifiable to cut through the cortex and explore the pelvis with the finger, as even when no stone was present this proceeding has been known in several cases to give great relief. If a stone be felt, a scalpel may be passed down to it, guided by the needle. x\s the scalpel is withdra^^nl, a profuse gush of blood may follow, Avhich is at first very alarming, but the pressure of a sponge for a few minutes aiTests it. A pair of poly[3us-forceps may then be passed in, and the wound enlarged by opening the blades. This is accompanied by scarcely any bleeding. The finger may then be inserted, and the stone perhaps hooked out by it; but if this cannot be done, a pair of forceps must be applied, guided by the finger. It is better in all cases to cut through the cortex, and not to try to open the pelvis. Wounds of the kidney-substance heal readily, but those of the pehis are apt to leave a fistula. The. stone having been removed, and all bleeding arrested by temporary pressure on the kidney with a sponge, the external- wound may be closed by sutures, leaving an opening at its middle for a large drainage-tube. The urine will probably flow from the wound for some weeks, but in several of the recorded cases rapid healing has taken place. The most, extraordinary is that recorded by Bennett May, in which he removed a stone weighing one ounce, and of extremely irregular form, the wound completely healing in five weeks. The dressing should be strictly antiseptic, and while the urine is escaping it must be changed twice a day. Morris recommends finely-powdered German moss-peat as the best absorbent material to place beneath the patient outside the dressing. The operation of removal of a stone from a healthy kidney has not been very frequently performed, but so far has been uniformly successful. Nephrotomy.—This consists merely in making an incision into a kidney distended with pus. The incision must be in the same position as that just described, but need not be so extensive, as no exploration of the surface of the kidney is required. The surface of the enlarged kidney being exposed, it must be punctured by a broad-bladed scalpel, and the finger inserted at the puncture before the pus escapes. In this way the dilated calyces are easily examined, and should a stone be present it may be removed. After the operation a large drainage-tube is inserted, reaching well into the pelvis of the kidney ; this must be gradually shortened as the cavity closes. The dressings should be antiseptic throughout. Nephrotomy for calculous pyelitis is often successful: for tubercular pyelitis scarcely ever so, although it gives relief and prolongs life. If a sinus remains, the drain from which is exhausting to the patient, the question of lumbar nephrectomy must be considered. The operation, far from being increased in difficulty, is actually facilitated by the previous drainage. Nephrectomy.—By nephrectomy is meant the complete extirpation of the