WEBBING OF THE FINGERS. 509 of {i remarkable deformity of the hands in a child that was nnder my care some years ago. The lingers appear to have suffered in some instances complete, in othei’s partial, amputation in utero. They are marked by deep transverse sulci ; others are shortened, and terminate in rounded nodules, with a narrow pedicle connecting them with the proximal phalanx. Webbing of the Fingers is occasionally met with. In this condition a cutaneous septum unites contiguous fingers. Sometimes the malformation is confined to one digital interspace, and then it is usually that between the index and middle fingers. In other cases it occupies two or all three in- tei'spaces. The web is a tolerably thick septum of skin, narrow at the base, broader above. It may extend the whole length of the fingers, or only a por- tion. The web does not interfere with the movements of the fingers in flexion or extension. This deformity is readily remedied by operation. The web may be divided in different ways. The plan that I have always successfully adopted consists in separating the fingers widely, and then cutting through the web from its free edge, keeping accurately to the middle line as far as the base of the finger, making the incision longer on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect; or the web may be transfixed at the base, and the incision made forwards. Some Surgeons transfix the base with a ligature or wire, and, bringing it over the free edge, gradually tighten it, and so divide the abnormal bond of union. The objection to this process is that it is slow and painful. After the division of the web, the hand should be put on a splint, and a piece of lint interposed between the separated fingers during the whole process of union, so as to prevent any chance of re-adhesion. In order to prevent the tendency to gradual union of the raw surfaces advancing from the angle between the fingers towards the tip, it has been suggested, as a preliminary step, to make a puncture through the web, at the base of the space between the fingers, and to pass through this a piece of glass rod or metal, which may be worn until the wound thus made is completely covered by epithelium, the piece of glass acting like an ear-ring in the lobule of the ear. When this healing is complete, the web may be slit up without risk of re-union proceeding from the angle between the fingers. When the septum is very dense, the following operation, invented by Didot of Liege, may be advantageously practised. Supposing the index and middle finger to be webbed, the following would be the procedure to be adopted, which is of course equally applicable to any of the other fingers. 1. The Surgeon makes an incision along the median line of the palmar aspect of the index finger, extending the whole length of the web. 2. Two small trans- verse incisions arc how made at the upper and lower ends of this longitudinal incision, extending from it to the ends of the web. 3. The rectangular flap thus defined is dissected back as thick as possible, so that its base corresponds to the mid-line of the web. 4. A coiTesponding longitudinal incision is now made along the domd surface of the middle finger, but comes rather further down on the hand. The two transverse incisions at its upper and lower ends are next made ; the flap thus defined is dissected back, and when the knife reaches the mid-line of the web the two fingers will be found to be sepamted. 5. The next and last step of the operation is to wrap each flap round the raw surface of the finger to which it continues to be attached, and to fix it in sifii by three or four points of suture. Thus the raw surface on the index finger