CLOSURE OF THE JAWS. 6oi to those of rheumatoid arthritis. In a ci\se of this kind recorded by Adams, other joints were similarly affected. In two other cases recorded by McCarthy and Heath, there were no signs of general articular affection. In Heath s case the chin was thrown over to the opposite side, and groat deformity resulted. The diseased condyle was successfully removed. It measured one inch and tlmee-quartei'S from before back and one inch across. The improve- ment in the appearance of the patient and the utility of the jaw was very marked. Closure of the Jaws.—Spasmodic closure of the jaws, lasting weeks or months, and often accompanied by considerable pain, is not an uncommon result of retention of the wisdom tooth, either from faulty position, or from the second molar not allowing room for it to reach the surface. It occurs between the ages of 20 and 35, at the period at which the wisdom tooth should be cut. ChlorofoiTU must be administered, and the mouth gagged open. The second molar must then be extracted to give room for the wisdom tooth, after which the symptoms at once subside. Permanent Closure of the Jaws may be due to ankylosis of the joint, as already described. It is perhaps, however, more commonly the result of con- traction of cicatrices, resulting fr-om cancrum oris, or from gangrenous stomatitis following the excessive administration of mercury, or more rarely from extensive necrosis. When the mucous membrane has been destroyed by ulceration from the one alveolar border to the other, the resulting cicatrix binds the jaws so firmly together, that not only is movement impossible, but the inside of the cheek is in such close contact with the teeth, that there is scarcely room to pass a director between them. Under these circmnstances it is evident that little can be done to relieve the patient from within the mouth. Division of the cicatrix follo’wed by forcible extension has been recommended and practised, but never with any good result. As the raw surface heals, the contraction necessarily recurs, and the last state of the patient is much the same as the first. If the band were very narrow, and healthy mucous membrane existed on each side, which could be drawn in by contraction of the sore in healing while the mouth was gagged open, some benefit might result, but practically such a condition is never met with. Various attempts at plastic operations, similar to those performed for faulty cicatrices in the skin, have been suggested and attempted, but no good result has been obtained. In order to relieve this distressing deformity, Esmarch, of Kiel, in 1855, suggested division of the jaw and the formation of a false joint in front of the cicatricial bands. About the same time, Rizzoli, of Bologna, made a similar suggestion. In Rizzoli’s method the jaw is simply divided from within the mouth by a pair of strong cutting pliers; in Esmarch’s operation a wedge- shaped piece of bone with the apex towards the alveolar border is removed by a saw from an incision made from outside at the lower border of the jaw. The performance of the operation is suificiently easy, but considerable diffi- culty is found in maintaining the movement between the fragments after cicatrization is complete. The tendency to re-union by bone, or by fibrous tissue, so dense as to prevent all movement, is certainly less when a con- siderable piece of the jaw is removed. C. Heath, who was one of the first to ])erfonn the operation in this country, expresses a strong preference for Esmarch’s operation. In one case operated on by him by this method in 1804, the patient was found to have good use of the sound side of the jaw in 1880. The wedge of bone removed measured seven-eighths of an inch at the lower border.