DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 456 reference to the form of the disease, the acuteness of the attack, and tlie severity of the local and constitutional symptoms. In all cases, this atiection must be mana^md in accordance with those general principles that guide us in the treatment of inflamed joints. It is of especial importance to adopt early measures. If we wish to prevent the occurrence of suppuration, dislocation, or ankylosis, the child must, on the supervention of the earliest symptoms of impending mischief about the joint, be put under proper constitutional treatment, and complete rest of the limb must be secured by a proper splint. By early attention, a cure may be effected; whereas, if the case be neglected in its first stages, the utmost the Surgeon can do is to save the life of the patient. When the disease is of the acute Arthritic kind, the patient must of course be kept in bed, and absolutely at rest. No treatment will be of the slightest avail, unless we adhere rigidly to that principle which is paramount in the management of all acutely inflamed joints—absolute rest. In inflam- mation of the hip-joint, there are three methods of securing this : 1, by means of a weight attached to the limb ; 2, by the long splint; and 3, by Thomas’s hip-splint. The particular method employed must depend somewhat upon the acute- ness of the symptoms and the position of the limb. As a Thomas’s splint requires to be accurately fitted to the limb, and should be specially made for the patient, one of the two first means has usually to be adopted at first. Of the two methods, that by the weight-extension is the best, as it completely relieves the painful startings, and is adapted to all cases, however great the degree of flexion or lateral displacement may be. In applying extension by means of a weight, the following plan should be adopted. The patient is placed upon a hard mattress. The angle of flexion and the degree of abduction or adduction is then ascertained by the methods already described (p. 444), as the extension must at first be made as accurately as possible in the line of the abnormal position the limb has assumed. A long broad strip of adliesive plaster is then applied of sufficient length to reach from a few inches above the Imee on each side of the limb, and to leave a loop projecting beyond the sole of the foot for about one foot. In the loop is placed a piece of wood three inches in length to form a spreader, and thus to prevent injurious pressure on the malleoli. A hole may be drilled through the spreader and the plaster covering it, and tlmough this the cord bearing the weight is passed and secured by a knot. Narrower strips of plaster are then applied diagonally round the limb to fix the first piece more securely; great care being taken that no strip passes circularly round the limb in such a way as to constrict it. A flannel bandage is then applied from the malleoli to the middle of the thigh, to ensure the adhesion of the plaster. A long splint is then applied to the sound limb ; without this, although by extension the pain may be removed, adduction or abduction and some degree of flexion cannot be prevented, as the patient will turn on one side and avoid the direct pull of the weight. The long splint being fixed, the weight is applied to the rope passing through the spreader and over a pulley. The pulley should be fixed to some apparatus allowing of its being raised or lowered as circumstances may require. If the proper apparatus, such as is used in hospitals, be not at hand, a pnllcy may be readily made from a cotton- reel with a piece of wire passed through it, by which it can be slung to the back of a chair or a clothes-horse. The weight of the body serves us the