SPECIAL IIERNIjE. 8o8 through tlie external abdominal ring, and presenting all the usual signs of a hernia. So long as it is confined to the neighbourhood of the ])ubes, it is of moderate size ; but when once it enters the scrotum, where, it meets with less resistance, it may gradually enlarge until it attains an enonnous bulk. The testicle, however, may always be felt tolerably distinct at its posterior inferior part. In women this form of hernia descends into the labium, but never attains the same magnitude as in men. When of large size, these ruptures usually contain both intestine and omentum, most frequently a portion of the ileum, though the various other viscera, such as the caecum, bladder, &c., have been found in them. In the direct inguinal hernia, the symptoms closely resemble those of the oblique, except that the tumour is more rounded, and usually not so large ; the neck is wider, and situated near the root of the penis, with the cord on its outer side. Roser directs attention to the important fact that the oblique or external inguinal hernia is most common in young males, whilst the internal or direct inguinal hernia is almost confined to elderly men. This appears to be owing to the imperfect closure of the fascicular process of the peritoneum being the common cause of the first, and absorption of hit of the second form. The different forms of inguinal hernia are not unfrequently complicated Avith various other affections ; either Avith different kinds of ruptm’e, or with diseases of the cord or testis, such as hydrocele of the cord or of the tunica A’aginalis, or varicocele. These various complications necessarily make the diagnosis somewhat more obscure, but with care and practice it may generally easily Ixj made out. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of inguinal hernia is usually readily effected, the characters and position of the tmnour enabling the Surgeon to detennine its true nature. In most cases it is useless to endeavour to ascertain Avhether the hernia is oblique or direct; all old oblique hernim having a tendency to drag the inner ring doiAuiAvards and inwards, approximating it and bringing it nearly opposite to the outer one, shortening and destroying the obliquity of the canal. Hence the direction of the neck and of the axis of the tumour in these cases so nearly resembles Avhat is met with in the direct form of hernia, that the Surgeon should not attempt to undertake an operation, more particularly the division of the stricture, on any imaginary diagnosis. Some forms of femoral hernia may occasionally be confounded with the inguinal: the distinguishing points betAA’een these tAvo forms of the disease Avill be considered in the section on femoral hernia. The diagnosis of inguinal hernia from other diseases in this vicinitv has to be considered under the tAA’O conditions in which the rupture is found,—1, in the canal, and 2, m the scrotum. 1. Whilst still lying in the canal, inguinal hernia requires to be diagnosed from the following conditions, a. Abscess, descending from the interior of the abdomen or pelvis through the canal, and passing out through the abdominal ring. The diagnosis may here be effected by recognizing the soft fluctuating feel of the abscess, Avhich, though reducible on pressure, and descending on coughing Avith a distinct impulse, does not present the more solid characters and the gurgling sensation of a hernia, h. Encysted or Diffused Hydrocele of the Cord. In i\\a encysted hydrocele there is a smooth oauI sAA’clling situated on the cord, Avhich can be apparently reduced, being pushed up into the canal, and descends again on coughing or straining; but it may be distinguished from