SURGICAL TREATMENT. 119 4 i.i i r li' 1 I h iV ' f, ' r] » i ?S especially by Clmckerbutty, G. W. Balfour, and W. Roberts, and its good effects lend some weight to the supposed syphilitic origin of many aneurisms. In a large proportion of the cases thus treated, the sufferings of the patients have been relieved ; there has been diminntion of the size of the sac, and in several instances the cure has been apparently perfect. The enforcement of the recumbent posture is, as Balfour rightly insists, of high importance as an adjuvant in this treatment. There certainly appears to be sufficient evidence to waiTant a trial of the iodide in the constitutional treatment of aneurism. By judiciously carrying out these plans of treatment and modifying them according to the circumstances of the case, consolidation of the aneurismal • tumoiu- may occasionally be prodneed ; or, if this be not attained, the progress of the disease will be very materially retarded. AVhen aneurism occurs in old, feeble, cachectic, or ancemic persons, a lowering plan of treatment is altogether inadmissible : here, the blood being- deficient in fibrine, and the system in an irritable state from debility, the best results follow such a course as will improve the plasticity of the blood, and regulate the action of the heai’t. With this view, complete rest, the adminis- tration of the preparations of iron, a dry but nomdshing meat diet, and the occasional employment of opiates to relieve pain and to quiet the system, will be attended by the best results. In aneurism occurring in elderly people and amongst the poorer classes, this plan is perhaps more successful than any other. In the Local Treatment of aneurism but little can be done with the view of checking its progress, except by the employment of direct sm-gical means. The application of ice to the surface of the tumour is said to have acted beneficially in some cases ; but it is a painful remedy, and may occasionally be attended by sloughing of the skin to which it is applied. When the pain attending the increase of the tumour is considerable, much relief may be obtained from the hypodermic injection of morphia, the application of bella- donna plasters, or the use of an embrocation composed of equal parts of oil and of the strong tincture of aconite. These means comprise the only local measures that can be adopted in those cases of internal aneurism, which are beyond the reach of surgical interference. SURGICAL TREAO?MENT OP ANEURISM. In all those cases in which it is possible to delay with safety, no surgical proceeding should be undertaken for the cure of aneurism until the patient has been subjected to proper constitutional treatment for some time; the success of the more direct surgical means depending greatly, in the hypermmic fonqs of aneurism, on the heart’s impulse being lessened, and on the blood being brought into as healthy a state as possible ; whilst, in the anmmic form of the disease, an increase in the plasticity of the blood is essential for the cure of the case ; for, as the occlusion and consolidation of the sac, after surgical procedure, depend on the same conditions being induced that arc successful after medical treatment, the same constitutional means should be adopted in one case as in the other. Before proceeding to the employment of any direct surgical means for the cure of an external anenrism, it is necessary to ascertain that there is no internal aneurism present, and that the heart is free Irom disease. From want of this precaution, it has happened that patients have died on the operating table at the moment when the artery was being ligatured, or that they havt) expired