26o inflammation OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. injury occasionally terminates in suppuration. The ])us forms Ijetween the membrane and the bone, and slowly perforates the fibrous layer. It shows but little tendency to extend beneath the periosteum or to separate it widely from the bone. It may be followed by death of the exposed portion of the compact tissue, but, as before stated, this is by no means necessary. {J)) Infective Inflammation of the Periosteum is a much more serious affection. It occurs chiefly, if not exclusively, in young subjects. It termi- nates very early in suppuration and the pus diffuses itself widely, stripping the periosteum from the bone, sometimes throughout the whole extent of the diaphysis. When it reaches the epiphyses the inflammation and suppuration extend in the growing tissue between them and the shaft, and thus in extreme cases the whole diaphysis may lie loose in the cavity of a vast abscess enclosed within the undestroyed fibrous layer of the periosteum ; finally, this is perfo- rated, and the pus diffuses itself amongst the surrounding tissues. In spite of the acuteness of the process, the periosteum very rarely sloughs, and if exit be given to the pus the intensity of the inflammation subsides and the periostitis assumes the osteoplastic form, new bone being abundantly deposited beneath it. Infective periostitis almost invariably leads to death of a considerable portion of the bone which has been laid bare by the separation of the mem- brane, but the extent that perishes does not necessarily correspond to that separated from its periosteum. Osteoplastic Periostitis.—This is essentially a chronic process. It occurs as a consequence of the slighter forms of irritation, or as a sequel of acute inflammation. It is very frequently met with also as an accompaniment of more deeply seated inflammatory mischief, as of the medulla or cancellous • tissue, and in the neighbourhood of diseased joints. In young subjects it results from very slight sources of irritation, being then merely an exaggera- tion of the normal process of growth. In osteoplastic periostitis the membrane is thickened and more vascular than natural. It separates with some ease,, and its under surface often feels gritty from small fr-agments of new bone that.- have come away with it. Beneath it and adherent to the compact tissue is;- the new bone formed as the result of the process. Tliis may be arranged in, smooth layers, parallel to the surface of the bone, in nodules or in pointed, processes. When the nodulated or spiculated masses reach any considerable t' size they are frequently termed osteophytes. The new bone formed in the( early stages of osteoplastic periostitis is soft and spongy, being traversed by! large canals containing vessels surrounded by round cells. These canals are i set at right angles to the surface of the bone. As recovery takes place the f new bone is partly absorbed, the irregular nodular or spiculated masses are^ smoothed down and the remainder gradually increases in density, till it be-f comes indistinguishable from the compact bone beneath. ^ i Microscopic examination of the parts involved in osteoplastic periostitis i shows that the swollen membrane is infiltrated with small round cells, propor- tional in number to the acuteness of the process. In the deeper layers in i contact with the newly-forming bone, the cells assume the characteiistic angular shape and granular appearance of osteoblasts. There seems to be a direct transition from the granulation-cells infiltrating the inflamed membrane to the osteoblasts. The new bone is formed subsequently in the same waj as ' in normal ossification. Some of the osteoblasts are supposed to be transformed i into a homogenous intercellular substance, which becomes indistinctly fibrillatei i 1 i t il I i i a i A