TREATMKjS'T of OYAFJAN TUMOURS—FRAIFAOF. 1197 patient’s dumec of recovery from a subsequent ovariotomy by exposing- her to the risk of septicaemia. Finally, the puncture in the cyst-wall may from •some cause or other remain unsealed, thus allowing free escape of ovarian fluid into the ixn-itoneal cavity with all its attendant dangers, among which not the least is that of malignant infection of the peritoneum from a protrud- ing papillomatous growth. The above enumeration of the dangers incurred through tapping ovarian •cysts is in accordance with the experience of those Surgeons who have had the fullest opportunities of judging of the results of this operation ; and it is not too much to say that the procedure is one to Avhich recourse should but verv rarely be had, only when rendered justifiable by exceptional circumstances. As a means of relieving urgent dyspnoea, tapping is clearly applicable only to unilocular cysts, or to those multilocular tumours in which one cyst-cavity largely predominates in size over its neighbours. When imperatively called for with this view, the operation should invariably be performed with the •strictest antiseptic precautions, including the use of the carbolized spray, in order to obviate the risks of septic infection of the cyst-contents. The punc- -tnre may be made through the linea alba, as in the case of ordinary ascites ; but not unfrequently the tumour presents more distinctly at some other part of the abdominal wall, and the point selected may be varied accordingly, care Ijeing taken always to choose a spot free from intestinal resonance, and suffi- •ciently remote from the pubes to avoid any possibility of puncturing the bladder which may be drawn up in front of the tumour. Incision and Drainage is a method of treatment occasionally applicable with advantage in exceptional cases of univei’sally adherent sup|)urating cysts, when attempted extirpation of the tumour would entail extreme risk to life, •owing to the probability of rupture of the cyst-wall during its removal—an ■•accident most likely to prove fatal, as involving the escape of irritating septic matter into the peritoneal cavity. The operation in such instances involves a short incision in the usual situation, of sufficient extent to enable the Surgeon to judge of the closeness of the parietal adhesions, and by puncture of the cyst to determine the putrid nature of its contents. After thorough evacuation and sponging-out of the cyst-cavity with a strong solution of iodine, a glass drainage-tube should be inserted, and the incision closed by means of sutures connecting the cyst with tlie margins of the opening in the abdominal wall. The subsequent management of the case involves frequent withdrawal of fluid from the tube by means of a suitable syringe, and the use of some efficient antiseptic to prevent putrefaction of the discharges. Under this treatment, the cyst-cavity rapidly contracts, and Anally closes entirely. Other means of dealing with unilocular ovarian cysts have from time to time been suggested, all aiming at the same princi])le, viz., that of inducing gradual contraction of the cyst and cohesion of its walls. But of the prc)- •cedures advocated, that above described is the only one to be at all recom- mended, and that only in the e.xccptional instances alluded to. Xo operation, liowever, short of coin))lete extirpation, can be looked n])on as surely curative, since, even after incision and drainage, followed a])|iarcntly by coni])lcte con- traction, it not uncommonly happens that secondary cysts dcvelopc in the wall or base of the original tumour, and cvcntnnlly a multilocular growth may be substituted for what was apparently in the first instance a'nnilociilar