DISEASES OE THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 654 chills, and occasioinilly e^'Cll delirinin. The thermometer frequently rises to 105°, or even higher. In some cases, a trace of albumen may he found in the urine. Tonsillitis is often caused by exposure to impure air, such as results || from the escape of sewer-gas into a house, and it is not imcommon amongst the residents in hospitals. It may be mistaken for diphtheria, scarlet fever, (jr ; erysipelas of the lances. From diphtheria it is distinguished by the absence {] of exudation. The mucous secretion from the tonsil may somewhat resemble 1 diphtheritic exudation, but it is readily distinguished Ijy its want of adherence, i' as it is easily removed with a camel’s-hair pencil. From scarlet fever, ton- :: sillitis is distinguished by the absence of the red tongue, and by the redness of [ the throat being purple in tint, and limited to the tonsils and their immediate ! neighbourhood, and later on by the absence of rash. From erysipelas of the fauces it is more difficult to distinguish, but it will usually be found that the ; redness is darker in tint and less diffused than in erysipelas, and there is less ! cedematous swelling, and no tendency to the supervention of dyspnoea from i oedema glottidis. There is also less glandular enlargement at the angle of the jaw. The Treatment should always be commenced by a good purge ; a calomel and colocynth pill will be found most efficacious if it can be taken. This is followed by the application of fomentations, the inhalation of the steam of hot water, and low diet, which need scarcely be enforced, on account of the difficulty and pain in swallowing. If the mouth can be opened, much relief may be given by scarifying the tonsils with a probe-pointed bistoury ; and, if abscess form, it should be opened early with a gum-lancet. The inhalation of the steam from a pint of boiling water, to which has been added a teaspoonful of creasote or carbolic acid, will often give much comfort by allaying the foetor of the breath. Enlargement of the Tonsils.—There are two distinct forms of chronic enlargement of the tonsils. In one, these organs become increased in size in otherwise healthy children in consequence of repeated attacics of mftammation^ and more especially of diphtheria, scarlet fever, and measles. In the second form, the enlargement is due to a true tiypen'tropihy of the nonnal structures of the tonsil. The lymphatic follicles are enlarged and increased in number, and the connective tissue between them is more abundant and denser than natm’al. The crypts are deepened and are filled with an abundant mucous secretion. In rare cases, calcareous concretions may be found in the dilated crypts. This form of enlargement may be complicated by the effects of repeated attacks of inflammation. Wlien the tonsils are chronically enlarged, one usually suffers to a somewhat greater extent than the other. The condition is obvious on opening the mouth and depressing the tongue so as to expose the fauces fairly, and cannot be mistaken for any other morbid state. In chronic inflammatory enlargement the tonsils are red, congested, and very liable, under the influence of slight causes, to violent attacks of acute inflam- mation with ulceration or abscess. In chronic hypertroj)hy the tonsil presents different characters ; it is large, rather pale, hard, smooth, and semi-elastic. This disease is one which occurs in children and young persons who have a general tendency to strumous affections of the mucous membraiies. IMost commonly it develops without any assignable or external cause, usually commencing at five or six years of age, and