504 DEFORMITIES. I it is ibGuiuntic, oi of oigiinic chfiructGr, and pGrinancnt, SGCtioii of tliG tGiidoii and its aponeurosis may be practised, due care being taken of tlie artery and nerve, ibis operation is most safely done by introducing the tenotome totbe inner side of tbe tendon, slipping it under, and cutting upwards and out- wards ; tbe artery being guarded and pushed to tbe inner side by tbe pressure of tbe left forefinger. 3. Ibe forearm may be forcibly pronated and flexed as the result of chronic inflamination of the radio-humeral articulation. Here forcible supination and extension, under chloroform, is tbe best remedy. 4. Tbe forearm may be bent on tbe arm in consequence of the contraction Fig. 622.—Contraction of Sui^inators of Forearm and E.xtensors of the Hand (j q \ > 1 I of the cicatrix of a burn along the inside of the limb. In this case, the plastic operation described at page 381, Yol. I., must be practised. Ankylosis of the Arm in the Straight Position is a condition of very serious inconvenience, the limb being almost useless for aU ordinary purposes of life. In cases of this kind, the treatment to be adopted must depend upon Fig. 623.—Contraction of Flexors and Pronators of the Hand. whether the ankylosis be fibrous or osseous. If it be fibrous, however firm, the forearm may always readily be brought into a rectangular position by flexion under chloroform, and the mobility of the joint may then be improved or restored by passive motion, friction, and douches. If it be osseous, a wedge of bone must be removed, and the case treated as an ordinary instance of excision of the elbow, with a view of establishing a false joint. Acquired Contraction of the Muscles of the Forearm implicating the Hand is occasionally met with in adults. I have seen it in two opposite conditions ; that of forcible extension (Fig. 622), and that of forcible flexion and pronation (Fig. 623). In both instances it appeared to have been the result of excessive use of certain muscles ; in the first case in wringing out clothes, in the other in cutting with very heavy shears. In the case of flexion