999 THE OPERATION AT ONE SITTING. • extracted. Civiale employed the “ trilobe,” allowing the urine slowly to trickle out through the shaft of the instrument, at the time when lie drew and closed the blades over the floor of the bladder, by pushing the tubular shank over ;them. As a measure of additional safety, the exploration should be repeated after the lajise of a week or two, and the bladder be well washed out after each ■procedure. During the whole of the treatment, it is necessary to adopt means to allay irritation. AVith this view the patient should be kept in bed, or on a couch ; a moderate diet only should be allowed, plenty of demulcent drinks given, 'Such as barley-water, soda-water, or milk; and opiates or henbane, if necessary, should be administered. The amount of irritation of the bladder developed after lithotrity in several xsittiugs varied greatly in different cases. In some, in which the stone, when rmbroken, had excited much pain and irritability of the organ, the sufferings 'Were at once lessened by its being broken up. It is difficult to account for this, except on the supposition that the fragments, being spread over a wider surface ffian the unbroken calculus, pressed less directly on any one part, and so produced !less local irritation. More frequently, however, the crushed stone produced imuch gi*eater irritation than the unbroken one. In this respect, however, uch depended upon the care that was taken after the operation. If the patient was kept lying on his back, if diluents were freely given, and opiate and belladonna rectal injections used, the in-itation from this source was materi- ally lessened. But if the patient was allowed to walk about, and to pass urine standing up or leaning forwards, some of the fragments might be driven into the neck of the bladder, or even the deeper part of the urethra, producing :he most intense and painful strangury. AVhen this unfortunate acci- iJent occmved, the patient passed urine every half-hour or oftener, squeezing Dut a few di’ops, Avrithing, and perhaps screaming Avith the agony he suffered, is the vesical neck contracted on the rugged fragments ; his pulse became I juick, his skin hot and perspiring, his tongue dry, the urine scanty, high- joloured, and perhaps more irritating ; and unless relief were speedily given, nervous e.xhaustion set in, and death ensued. In such unfavourable circum- stances no time Avas to be lost. The patient had to be anesthetized, the bladder ■njected Avith Aveak belladonna-solution, tbe lithotrity-scoop introduced, the /ragments broken up as completely as possible, and detritus taken away or 'A'ashed out. No means other than this or lithotomy, Avould saie the patient. Lithotrity suhseq'ueiitly to 1878.—Lithotrity, as practised by the nest masters of the art, had gradually been improAed in simplicity and in safety ;ince the days of (,'iviale. It had been ai)plied in various conditions of stone, of prostiite, and of bladder, to which it had not prcAdously been thought ipplicable ; and thus many cases had been brought under the influence of this operation, for Avbich lithotomy had heretofore been the only remedy. The principles on AA-hich it Avas fonnerly conducted, and to which it OAved its •mccess, Ai'ere those of extreme care and gentleness in the employment of the ’ ithotrite, brevity in the sittings, and care that the bladder and urethra be not njnred by the instruments, or irritated by the fragments of stone. ^Jdic great orinciple that guided lithotritists Avas the aA’oidancc of the prolonged use of nstrumcnts in the bladder. Prolonged instrumenhition Avas looked upon as one of the chief dangers in the operation, as occasioning cystitis at the dme, and leading to iiTitability and atony of the bladder subsequently.