213 RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN. ligature of this artery for axillary aneurism, is not confined to the lungs, but very commonly affects the pleura and pericardium as well as, or even in pre- ference to, these organs. It would, therefore, appear probable that it arose fi-om causes that are essentially connected either with this operation or with the aneinasm itself. These are referrible to three heads. 1. Septic inflammation of the deep areolar tissue at the root of the neck may extend to the anterior mediastinum, the pleura, and pericardium. This would appear to have been the cause of death in a patient in whom Key tied the sub- clavian, and has been especially adverted to by that excellent Surgeon in his relation of the case. 2. The sac may, by its pressure inwards, encroach upon and give rise to inflammation of that portion of the pleura which corresponds to its posterior aspect. This occurred in a case in which Mayo of Winchester operated, and is more liable to happen if suppuration have taken place in the sac ; when this occurs, adhesion may take place between it and the pleura, or even the tissue of the adjacent lung ; and the contents of the suppurating tumour may be discharged into the pleural cavity or air-tubes, and so coughed up. Of this curious mode of termination there are at least two cases on record ; one by Bulleu, in which the patient recovered ; the other by Gross, in which the patient died from the escape of the contents of the sac into the cavity of the pleura. 3. Division of the phrenic nerve would necessarily, by interfering with the respiratory movements, induce a tendency to congestion and inflammation of the lungs ; and, although such an accident must be a veiy rare one in cases of ligature of the subclavian for axillary aneurism, yet it undoubtedly has occuiTed, as I have myself witnessed in one case. Siqijmratmi of ihe Sac is the most common, though not the most fatal, accident after ligatiu’e of the subclavian for spontaneous axillary aneurism. It was the immediate cause of death in six cases, and occurred in two of the patients that died of inflammation of the chest ; it took place in six cases also that recovered : in aU, fourteen cases out of forty-five, or nearly one in three, —a much higher proportion than is generally observed in cases of ligature for aneurism. What occasions this greater frequency of suppuration of the sac in axillary aneurisms than in those in other situations ? The chief cause to which it appears to be attributable is the great laxity of the areolar membrane in the axilla, which allows the tumour to increase so rapidly in size as to excite inflammatory action in the sun'ounding tissues, which may speedily run into suppuration. Ho long as the contents of the tumour continue fluid, they will necessarily excite less irritation on surrounding structures ; but when once they have become solidifled, whether by the gradual deposit of laminated fibrine during the progress of the disease, or more suddenly, in consequence of those changes that take place in the contents of an aneurismal sao after the ligature of the artery leading to it, the indurated mass, acting like any other foreign Ijody, sets up inflammation in the areolar tissue that is in immediate contact with it, and thus disposes it to run into suppuration. The more speedily the solidifleation takes place, the more disposition will there be to the occurrence of this accident ; the neighbouring parts being unable to accommodate themselves to the sudden extension and compression they arc compelled to undergo. It is probable also that the proximity of the wound.