j!Jui\ersity College Uospitul one fatal case is recorded in which death from ilceration and perforation of the gnt at the seat of stricture followed rednc- ;] ion hy taxis. It is not iinfreqiiently followed, however, lyv a rather sharp ittack of peritonitis, which might probably, in some instances, prove fatal ; n one instance, I have seen it followed l)y A'cry abundant Innmorrhagc from j! ,he bowel, probably owing to the rupture of some of the congested vessels of ;he strangled portion of tlie gut. In using the taxis, great care should in dl cases be employed, and no undue force should be had recourse to. No ;ood can ever be effected by violence : the resistance of the ring cannot be •vercome by foi-cible pressure ; and a vast deal of harm may be done by >([ueezing against it the tender and inflamed gut, causing this to overlap, and :hus to be bruised, or even j^erhaps torn. The taxis should not be prolonged )eyond half an hour ; if it be properly employed for this time, the hernia, if •educildc, will probably go back. If it be apjdied, as it often and very im- oroperly is. for a lengthened period, and by several Surgeons in succession, the orotruded part becomes ecchymosed, irritated, and disposed to inflammation ; md the chances of recovery after a subsequent operation are much lessened. AVheii the parts are much inflamed, the taxis should be employed with great caution ; and, if it have been fairly and fully used by another Surgeon, it is 4lnetter not to repeat it. When gangrene has occurred, the taxis should never ;M'oe employed ; as the putting back of the mortified gut into the abdomen would be followed liy extravasation of fteces and fatal peritonitis. In using the taxis, it should be borne in mind that there are two obstacles :<.» overcome ; the resistance of the parts around the ring, and the bulk of the tumour. The first may be somewhat lessened by relaxing the abdominal muscles, and consequently diminishing the tension exercised upon the tendinous ■ apertures and fiiscim of the groin. In order to effect this, the patient should ■oe placed in a proper position, the body being bent forwards, the thigh ad- 1 lucted. and semi-flexed upon the abdomen; the Surgeon may then, by employ- img steady pressure on the tumour, endeavour to squeeze out some of the flatus ifrom the strangled portion of intestine, and thus to effect its reduction. In 1 loing this, the neck of the sac should be steadied by the fingers of the left |)hand ; whilst, with the right spread over the tumour, the Surgeon endeavours to [)iish it backwards, using a kind of kneading motion, and sometimes in the tirat instance drawing it slightly downwards, so as to disentangle it from the neck of the sac. The direction of the pressure is important; it should always be in the line of the descent of the tumour. These means may be employed IS .sfxm as the patient is seen by the Surgeon, when, by steadily carrying on the taxis for a few minutes, he will perhnps hear and feel a gurgling in the mmoiir, which will be followed l>y its immediate reduction. If the patient be diin. and the outline of the aperture through which the hernia escapes toler- ably defined, the protrusion may be reduced, after failure of the taxis in the ordinary way, by pa.ssing the tip of the finger or the nail under the edge of die ring, and pulling this firmly and forcibly on one side, so as to steady^and It the same time dilate it, pressure being kept up on the tumour with the other band. This manceuvre can be ])ractised with more facility and success in femoral hernia, where the upper edge of the saphenous opening is sharply defined, but may also successfully be had recourse to in inguinal and umbilical protiiisions. In some cases reduction appears to have been facilitated by placing the patient on his liead and shoulders, and raising the bodv in the