MUMPS—TUMOURS OF THE PAROTID. S6i adults. It is highly infections, and frequently epidemic ; and, as in the other acute specific diseases, one attack generally protects che patient from the disease for the rest of his life. It has an incnhative period of from two weeks to twenty-two days, but three weeks is the most common time. It commences usually with some febrile disturbance and malaise lasting about twenty-four lioui*s, but this may be wanting. At the end of that time one parotid gland becomes swollen, stiff, and painful ; the swelling continues to increase till about the fourth day, at which time it reaches from the zygoma to the angle of the jaw. The swollen socia parotidis can usually be clearly felt over the masseter and forms a valuable diagnostic sign, distinguishing parotitis from iiifiammation of the lymphatic glands behind the jaw. When the swelling is at its height, mastication is extremely painful. There is usually elevation of temperature, reaching 102° F. or 103° F. When one gland begins to subside that oil the opposite side usually begins to swell and runs the same course ; but occasionally both glands swell simultaneously. Suppuration rarely, if ever, takes place, unless it be in the lymphatic glands of the neighbourhood. As the parotid affection subsides, but sometimes simultaneously with it, inflammation of the testicle in the male or the breast, labia, or ovary in the female may take place. These so-called metastases are very rare in children. The orchitis is frequently followed by partial or complete atrophy of the testicle ; but fortunately, as the disease scarcely ever affects both sides, sterility rarely results. Inflammation of the membranes of the brain has been said to have been met with as a complication of mumps. The Treatment of this affection is simple. If it be severe, the application of hot fomentations and the administration of salines, and, when the affection is on the decline, frictions with camphorated oil, will hasten its resolution. The orchitis must be treated with hot fomentations and rest. Tumours.—Tumours of the parotid gland itseff are not so frequent as morbid growths situated upon it or in its vicinity. The tumoui*s met with in this region may be simple or malignant. The simple tumours met with in this region most frequently present a peculiar struc- ture rarely met with in any other part of the body. They consist of mixed cartilage, fibrous tissue, and mucous tissue, to which is often added glandular tissue, imper- fectly resembling the structure of a race- mose gland. When small they are firm, and somewhat elastic to the feel, smooth or slightly lobulated on the surface and freely movable on the parts beneath. As ■ they increase in size fluctuating areas be- ' come perceptible, often projecting above t the rest of the growth. These may be actual cysts containing a glaiiyfliiid formed ' by raucous softening of the cartilage, or they may be due to the presence of a mass of gelatinous tissue, presenting under the microscope the typical branched cells and mucous intercellular substance of a myxoma. These tumours grow slowly, often taking many years to reach the size of a walnut, but at any time they VOL. II. Q Q Fig. 007.—Tumour of Parotid, too deeply seated for Removal.