878 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. tlie knife about the eighth of an inch in depth. iVo dressing is reijnired after this operation ; hut, if the incision do not readily heal, it should he touched from the bottom with the nitrate of silver, 'i'he jiatient’s bo\\x*ls should be well opened before the operation, and a dose of castor-oil may he given on the second or third day after it. During the process of cicatrization it will often be advantageous to give iron, and to put the patient on a nourishing diet. Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter Ani is usually associated with fissure or ulcer of the anus, or inflammatory irritation of some neighbouring organ ; but occasionally it occurs without this complication, and in all cases it may be connected Avith a neuralgic condition of the part. In hysterical women, this neuralgia and spasm are especially apt to occur ; though it is not improbable that, in many of the so-called cases of neuralgia of the anus, some positive disease, such as a small ulcer or fissure, may be detected on close examination, as I have had several occasions to verify. The Treatment of contraction of the sphincter, Avhether associated Avitb neuralgia or not, consists in the employment of local sedatives, especially the extract of belladonna, gr. j. to gr. ij. as a suppository ; the bowels being kept relieved by enemata and confection of senna. Should these means fail, the patient must be anaesthetized, and the sphincter forcibly dilated with the Surgeon’s fingers. Atony of the Kectuin is common in middle age, in those Avlio lead seden- tary lives, and especially in Avomeu. This condition is the consequence of and leads to habitual constipation, the Avails of the rectum becoming expanded and pouch-like. It may occasion the retention and impaction of hardened fasces. A mass of clayey consistence, and as large as the fcetal head, forming in the rectum and interfering seriously Avith defascation, becomes a source not only of great discomfort but of serious ill-health. Like all retained excreta, it slowly poisons the system, giAung rise to foul breath, dirty greyish complexion, and mental depression. The Treatment of atony of the rectum consists in scrupulous care in empty- ing the bowels by the administration of cold enemata. If impaction of fa3ces have occurred, this is to be remedied only by putting the patient. under chloroform, forcibly dilating the sphincter with the hand, and breaking doAvn the hardened mass with a lithotomy scoop or iron spoon, washing it aAvay Avith enemata, and thus clearing out the boAvel. ABSCESS AND FISTULA. . Abscess not unfrequently occurs in the Aucinity of the rectum and anus. It may either be superficial, being confined to the muco-cutaneous structures, and presenting the ordinary characters of acute subcutaneous abscess ; or it may 1x3 deeply seated, forming in the ischio-rectal fossa. It is these ischio-rectal abcesses that are of most practical importance. They may be of tAvo kinds— Acute and Chronic. Acute Ischio-rectal Abscess.—This forms deeply in the fossa, Avith throbbing, shooting, and stabbing pains, through the anus, rectum, and perinaeum ; on examination, a hard braAvny substance may be felt in the areolar tissue by the side of the gut, either by examination from Avithout, or by exploration through the rectum. It speedily softens, and Avill, unless an