DISEASES OF BLOOD VESSELS. 68 soft, and inelastic ; and on the remoA'al of the pressure fills again. In some I NiEVUS. This disease, under which are included those \-arions affections termed Mother's Marks, Erectile Tumoars, and Vascutar (iroiuths, constitutes an important and interesting- section of surgical affections. Nmvi are commonly divided into two chief varieties, capillary or cutaneous, and venous, cavernous or subcutaneous. Aneurism by anastomosis was formerly included under the name of arterial nmvus. The simple capil- lary nmvi are composed merely of the capillary vessels of the skin greatly increased in size and number ; the cause of their gi'owth is quite unknown. Venous or cavernous iiEevi are usually definitely circumscribed tumours, composed of spaces lined with an endothelium similar to that of the veins and bounded by a thin wall. The whole mass is bound together by a delicate areolar tissue. The spaces are filled with dark venous blood. The arterial supply is usually small, the arteries open directly into the spaces, without the intervention of capillaries. These naevi are sometimes ]3urely subcutaneous, but more commonly implicate the skin. The most common condition is to find the two forms of naevus conjoined, the disease assuming the capillary form in the skin and the venous beneath. In some cases the subcutaneous nmvus is not clearly defined, but consists of a mass of tortuous, thin-walled veins, surrounded by a considerable quantity of areolar tissue, sometimes containing fat. In fact, the structure of the various naevoid growths differs considerably in different cases, and the various forms merge into each other. (See also Angiomata, Yol. I., p. 989.) Naevi are almost always, if not invariably, congenital. Cavernous nae'^i occasionally seem to appear in young adult life, but it is probable that these were originally of congenital origin, and commenced active growth at an unusually late period. Naevi are not associated, except accidentally, with any other congenital defect. Capillary Nae-vi appear as slightly elevated but flat spots on the skin, of a bright red or purplish tint, and having occasionally granular or papillated elevations, with some larger vessels ramifying on their surface. They often spread superficially to a considerable extent; they are usually situated on the face, head, neck, or arms, but occasionally, though more rarely, on the back, the nates, the organs of generation, and the lower extremities. They are, often at birth very small, not larger than a pin’s head, from which they may spread in the course of a few Aveeks or months to patches an inch or two in diameter. In many cases no inconvenience results from this disease, except the deformity it causes ; but occasionally, more especially when the growth is at all prominent, there is a great disposition to unhealthy ulceration. When bleeding occurs from a wound of the nsevoid structure it is usually in a trickling stream, and without any degree of force. Venous or Cavernous Naevi are of a dark purple or reddish colour, usually very prominent, and often forming distinct tumours of considerable size, which may either be smooth and ovoid, or somewhat lobulated. On com- pressing a growth of this kind, it subsides to a certain extent, feeling doughy, cases, when consolidated by inflammation, or containing cysts, they cannot be lessened in bulk by pressure. These nsevi are usually of about the size of half a walnut, but sometimes much larger. I have removed from the nates and • \ : ^1; . • ii: !