139 FOBMS OF COMPRESSORS. ( I I 1, Jl: K r\ L A U 1 H 4 4 subjects, it may be necessary to give opiates or chloral hydrate. The pressure should, if possible, be continued during sleep ; but if it prevent the patient from taking his natural rest, the suggestion made by Tufiicll, of unscrewing the instrument slightly, and, when the loatient is asleep, gently tightening it again Avithout awakening him, may advantageously be adopted ; it is indeed surprising how very little unscrewing will relieve the pain of the compression. A large cradle should be placed over the patient’s body, so that the weight of the bed-clothes may be taken off the apparatus, and that the patient may manage it without risk of disturbance. Should there still be much uneasiness, the instrument might be taken off for a few hours, and compression kept up in an intermittent manner. Even in such circumstances as these, consolidation of the sac may ensue. In some cases, in which, from the situation of the aneurism, deep and severe pressure is required to control the circulation, the pain becomes so unendur- able that the patient cannot submit to the treat- ment sufficiently long for a good effect to be pro- duced. In such cases opium or chloral hydrate may be given with advantage, so as to enable the patient to bear the pressm’e. But in some instances more complete narcotism is necessary for him to endm-e it. In these circumstances, chloroform becomes a most useful adjunct ; and by maintaining the anaesthesia for several hours, the amount and duration of pressure requisite to effect a rapid cure may be maintained. In this way W. Murray of Is ewcastle-on-Tyne—to whom is due the merit of employing prolonged an^es- thesia as an adjunct to compression—cured an .-aneurism of the abdominal aorta by keeping up .pressure on that vessel for fiA'e hours under chloroform. Heath of the same town cured an i aneurism of the external iliac by compressing the : abdominal aorta for seven hours under chloro- ■ form; Mapother of Dublin treated an ilio-femoral aneurism successfully by compressing the common iliac artery for four and a half hours ; and Lawson treated an inguinal aneurism successfully by pressure on the abdominal aorta ■for four hours. In two cases of popliteal aneurism I kept up completely ' ol)structing pressure on the common femoral artery, under chloroform, for t twelve hours. By these means the only serious objection to the employment ' of pressure, and the most common cause of its failure, may be prevented ; tand it is clear that, under chloroform, pressure may be applied to arteries, ^such as the subclavian and carotid, on which it could not othenvise be I used. The employment of a weiuht may sometimes be advantageously substi- t tilted for the clamp, and often occasions less distress to the patient. For this I purpose the apparatus (Fig. 400) will be found very useful. A very simple compressor is Tufnell’s, represented in Figs. 401, 462. It ■ consists of little more than a truss-spring, Avith a pad to comjiress the artciy, * and straps to fix it in its place, and increase, by being tightened, the force of the compression. Fig. 460.—P. H. Watson’s Weight Conipre.ssor. Tlie circular dotted line shows the position of the limb.