lLE}fA TOC EL K—s' YMTTOME—DIA 0 NOE IE. I i6i • of the disease, iit^ually arisiiip; from a blow on or a squeeze of tlie testis, by whieh one of the veins ramifying on the surface of the gland is ruptured, and blood is jmured into the tunica vaginalis. It may arise also in tapping a hydrocele, from the point of the trochar being pushed too directly backwards and puncturing the testis, or wounding a vessel in the cord. Eponiaiieous HctmatoceU is a disease of rare occurrence, arising apparently from the rupture of an enlarged spermatic vein into the tunica vaginalis. It attains a larger size, and is altogether a more formidalde affection, than the traumatic liaematocele. Characters.—In whatever way occurring, a lunmatocele slowly but gradually increases in size until it attains about the magnitude of a duck’s egg, or even tliat of a cocoa-nut. It is seldom that it becomes larger than this ; but cases are recorded in which the tumour has attained an enormous magnitude. I once operated in a case in which a spontaneous luematocele had existed for six years ; it was as large as a good-sized melon, and contained, besides about a quart of dark thin blood, a handful of partially' decolorized and tough fibrine, the gi'eater portion of which was firmly adherent to the inside of the greatly thickened tunica vaginalis in filamentary and laminated masses, with here and there nodules interspersed. The whole <>f the interior of the tunica vaginalis closely resembled an aneurismal sac. The fluid contained in the hasmatocele, when the disease is recent, consists of pure blood. The blood so effused will continue fluid for years ; but at last it may decompose and set up fatal inflammatory mischief ; in some rare instances the tumour becomes partly solidified by the deposit of masses of fibrinous coagulum lining the interior of the tunica vaginalis, which are sometimes decolorized and arranged, as in the case just referred to and in one recorded by Bowman, in a laminated manner, like the contents of an aneu- risinal S51C. When the hematocele is of old standing, changes take place both in the effused blood and in the sac. The blood in old hematoceles becomes at fii-st dark and treacly. As chemical changes advance further it becomes converted into a dirty-brownish fluid, full of shreds of partially decolorized fibrine and crystals of cholesterine. The tunica ^'aginalis becomes thickened and indurated, and in exceptional cases may undergo calcification. This change I found in a patient whose disorganized testis I removed for a liaematocele of nearly forty years’ standing. Ei/mptoms.—These are generally sufficiently obvious. Tlie occurrence of the tumour subse<|uently to a blow, strain, or injury when traumatic, its gradual increase in size, its somewhat heavy but semi-elastic or obscurely fluctuating feel, and tlie absence of translucency, form the most important signs. Its shape is somewhat uncertain. When recent it may have the pyriform shape <if a hydrficelc, but an old luematocele is always more or less oval or rounded in form and smooth on the surface, and thus comes closely to resemble a solid tumour. Bxcejit in very old cases, in which atrophy of the testicle from jires- surc has occuiTcd, the pcculiai- “ testicular sensation ” will be perceived by the patient if the site of the gland is pre.ssed upon. DiapnosiH.—llannatoccle may be mistaken ftr hydrocele, hernia, and other scrota! swellings. The mode of distinguishing it will he described at the end of this chajiter, with the diagnosis of scrotal tumours in general. It is most frequently confounded with solid tumours of the testicle ; and upon this fact is founded the excellent rule oY practice never to remove a doubtful tumour of