TERMINA TIOKS—SPONTANEO US G UllE—SUPPURA TIOiV. 115 .i I process is of considerable interest, from its bearing upon the cure of tlie disease by surgical operation. The spontaneons cure may accidentally, though very rarely, occur by inflammation of the aneurism and consequent obliteration of the artery (see Suppuration of Sac); but most frequently it is by the gradual deposition of laminated flbrine in the interior of the sac that it is filled up completely. This process usually takes place in aneurisms affecting arteries of the second or third magnitude, rarely in those of the aorta, though both I Hodgson and Broca have met with instances; and it can happen only in yf; sacculated aneurisms, the fusiform not admitting of it, it being necessary that 1 it the blood flowing through the sac be somewhat retarded in its passage, so as . f to favoiu’the deposit of its fibrine upon the interior of the tumour. This j j’ process, which is a very different one fr’om the simple coagulation of the )>i blood, is the increase of a natm’al condition always going on in the sac. In t j; all cases of sacculated aneurism, there is a tendency to the production of a |4 spontaneous cure, though this is rarely accomplished. The tendency to it is ,Li t <howu by a contraction and partial occlusion of the artery helotv the sac, and .:he consequently diminished force of the circulation through it, by which the idepositiou of fibrine is greatly increased, at the same time that the collateral vessels given off above the sac often enlarge to a considerable extent, and thus livert from it blood which would otherwise have passed through it. This condition of the vessel below the sac may be looked upon as the first and most important step towards the consolidation of the tumour. The process is ilso materially assisted by the mouth of the sac being small, and so situated :hat the blood cannot be directly driven into it. For spontaneous cure to take place, it is by no means necessary that the whole cun’ent of blood should be suddenly arrested. If such an accident jccur, the aneiu'ismal sac becomes filled with a large dark soft clot, which nay yield, if from any cause a pulsating stream of blood be again admitted, )ut which under fiivourable circumstances may lead to a complete cure. If flood continue to circulate through the sac, deposit of laminated fibrine will ;>:ake place if the impetus with which this fluid is sent into the tumour be ;onsiderably diminished. This may happen fi’om the occurrence, in the distal )ortion of the artery or the mouth of the sac, of some one or other of those ‘onditions that have already been described. So, also, it has been found that n those cases in which two aneurisms are situated upon one artery, the listal one is very apt to undergo partial or even complete consolidation, the )Iood losing its impetus in its passage through the first sac. Any constitu- ional cause or condition also, by which the impulse of the heart is lessened, ind the force of the flow of blood through the sac diminished (as the occurrence •f })hthisis), will greatly favour the deposit of laminated fibrine and the :onsolidati(m of the tumour. As the aneurism undergoes spontaneous cure, the pulsation in it gradually becomes more and more feeble, until it ceases entirely ; the bruit projiortion- tely lessens, the tumour becomes harder, and at last completely consolidated ; ^t the same time, the anastomosing circulation is sometimes found to bo established in some of the collateral vessels of the limb. Eventually, the olidified tumour shrinks in size, undergoing gi-adual absorption, with ultimate onversion into a small mass of fibroid tissue. Suppuration with sloughing of an aneurismal sac is not of very frecpient ccnn-ence, but is especially apt to happen in those cases iu which the tumour