RHINOPLASTY—A FTER-TREA TMENT. 609 Fig. om.— Deiire.ssed Nose. Fig. (594.—New Nose, day after Operation. to remove the parts too widely, lest the cheeks should retract, and flatten out the nose. The integuments also should he dissected away in such a manner as to form a deep groove shelving inwards, so as to receive and hold the flap more securely and with less overlapping of the edges. The operation must now be discontinued for a few minutes until all bleeding has ceased, and the cut surlaces have become glazed; this point is of great importance in securing direct adhesion, and must be carefully attended to. The bleeding having been arrested by exposure to the air, and by the torsion rather than the ligature of any spouting branch, the flap from the forehead should be brought down by a twist from left to right, and attached by a few points of fine suture on each side to the edge of the incision, around the nasal aperture. A pledget of soft lint, or wool greased with carbolic oil, should now be gently insinuated under the flap, the lower part of the incision in the forehead drawn together by a point of suture, but not so as to constrict the root in any way, and the rest of the exposed surface covered with some simple dressing. The parts will then present the ap- pearance of Fig. 694, taken from a patient of mine the day after the operation. Fig. 693 represents the deformity • for which the operation was performed. The patient should be put to bed with a piece of soft lint laid over the whole of the face, so as to maintain its i ternperature ; and, if it be winter, he must be placed in a room that is well '. warmed day and night. The diet for the first few days should be simple, but abundant, consisting chiefly of nutritious slops. The dressings must not be disturbed for three days : by this time, if all go well, the flap will be found somewhat tumid, warm, and sensitive, but pale in •colour. The plug in the nose will now require changing, lest it be rendered ■offensive by the discharges; its withdrawal and the substitution of another .must be done with the greatest gentleness, the Surgeon bearing in mind that any undue pressure or traction may destroy adhesions, and prove fatal to the vitality of the flap. If the sutures produce no irritation, they may be left in till the fifth or sixth day, by which time adhesion vdll be tolerably perfect, and they may with safety be cut and withdrawn. As adhesion strengthens and the vitality of the flap imjiroves, it must be elevated by putting underneath it a larger plug of lint; for which, after a time, may be substituted a small gutta-percha tube moulded to the figure of the inside of the nose. Cl'ldema of a somewhat solid character is apt to come on in the flap, ’giving it a white appearance ; but this is of little moment, and will gradually subside as the circulation through it becomes more actively established. The flap gradually becomes thicker and firmer, tlirowing out gi’amilations from its under surface, which eventually becomes covered by epithelium. The wound on the forehead must be dressed like an ordinary ulcer, and be well touched with nitrate of silver from time to time, to insure its contraction. It usually cicatrizes with great readinc.ss, and leaves remarkably little deformity. VOL. II. R R