71O DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Chronic Encysted Abscess of the breast is a disease of great importance, inasmuch as it closely simulates various tumours in this situation ; so much so, indeed, that it is only with extreme dilliculty that the diagnosis is effected in some cases. The breast has in numerous instances been amputated on the supposition of its being the seat of tumour, when it was merely the seat of a very chronic thick-walled abscess. This form of abscess usually commences as the result of pregnancy, whether complete parturition or miscarriage take place ; sometimes as a consequence of lacteal inflammation, but usually without any injury or other direct local cause. An indurated indolent swelling forms, and this may gradually soften in the centre ; but fluctuation may for a long time be very indistinct, and even absent, being obscured by the thick wall of indurated tissue, surrounding the collection of pus. It is owing to the dense inflammatory induration of the surrounding tissues, that the chronic encysted abscess is so commonly mistaken for a solid tumour. It is in general not very distinctly circumscribed, and of but moderate mag- nitude ; after a time it remains stationary, during a space of many months, or but slowly increases with but little pain ; it is not unfrequently attended with retraction of the nipple. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this form of abscess is of great importance, inasmuch as it has not unfrequently been excised for iumour of the breast. I am acquainted with many instances in which this mistake has been com- mitted. Such an error may, however, commonly be avoided by attention to the following points : 1, that the existence of an abscess is almost in- variably preceded by impregnation, partmltion, or miscamage ; 2, that there is more or less oedema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue covering it; 3, that, although it is of slow formation and without pain, it is not dis- tinctly circumscribed, but gradually fuses in an irregTilar manner into the neighbouring tissues ; 4, that it is not freely movable, but rather incorporated with adjacent parts; and .5, that elasticity, or even deep fluctuation, may be commonly felt at one part of it. Should there be the least doubt in the case, the introduction of an exploring trochar, by giving issue to a drop of pus, will always determine its true nature ; indeed, this simple means of diagnosis should never be neglected in any case in which there is reason even to suspect the possibility of the apparent tumour of the breast being in reality an abscess. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened as soon as recognized, and if of sufficient size a drainage-tube should be inserted. Should the mass of indurated tissue surrounding the pus be very large and dense, a free incision carried through it will usually hasten its disappearance. In all cases of chronic abscess of the breast, but more particularly iu the sub-mammary, the arm should be kept at perfect rest in a sling or bandaged to the side. Tubercle of the Breast.—True miliary tubercle has not been observed in the mamma. Cases have been observed of multiple cavities in the mamma with caseous softening contents, but the evidence that these were tubercular is not perfect. Billroth quotes one such case. Syphilitic Disease of the Mamma.—Primary Sores on the nipple have already been mentioned. Gummata have been described in the mamma, and a few cases recorded. Billroth, however, does not regard the evidence of their occurrence as conclusive. There is no doubt that if they do occur they are of extreme rarity.