651 CYSTS ly FLOOR OF MOUTH. sionally met with in this region, Epithelioma being the most common. Adenoma also in connection with the salivary glands may occur. Xfcvi also have een observed in this situation. These tnmonrs require removal by irregular operations, varying according to the size and situation of the growth. 01 these proceedings no special directions can be given. In removing tumours as these, when situated under or by the side of the tongue, the kni e must necessarily be used with much caution. It must, however, be boine in mind that, if these growths cannot be reached from the inside of the mouth, thev may be got at by incision through the mylo-hyoid region, where theie is but a sliglit thickness of soft parts between the surface and the floor of the mouth. Cystic Tumours in the Floor of the IVEouth may occur under thiee forms : 1, Ilauula ; 2, Congenital Dermoid Cyst; and 3, Bursal Cysts. 1. Ranula.—A globular swelling, semi-transparent, evidently containing Fis. 737.—KainUa: Introduction of Seton. fluid, and often attaming the size of a Avalnut or a pigeon’s egg, may be situ- ated under the tongue, pushing this organ upwards and backwards, and conse- quently interfering Avith deglutition and speech (Fig. 737). The Avails of the cyst are usually thin, Avith small vessels ramify- ing on them ; its contents ai’e glairy and unlike saliva. This fonn of ranula is usually said to be a dilata- tion of Wharton’s duct; but there is no proof of the disease being of this , nature, nor is it very easy I to understand hoAv so small a duct can be dilated to so large a size as is occasionally attained by these tumours, Avhich seem, in some cases at least, rather to consist of independent cystic formations, such as commonly occur I in connection Avith other secreting glands, and in other parts of the mouth. And this vieAv of the case is strengthened by the fact that these globular ( cystic tumoui's containing glairy fluid may occur in the substance of the I tongue itself, far aAA’ay from any salivary duct. ^lorrant Baker, avIio has investigated the connection between ranula and \ the "W hartoiiian duct, finds that, in cases of ranula, Wharton’s duct is quite 1 free, without any alteration in size, and that saliva may be seen issuing from i it. A probe passed into the duct is separated from the ranula by a thin I membranous Avail, shoAving clearly that the duct and the ranula do not ( communicate. I have, hoAveA'er, lately seen a case in Avhich a ranula resulted 1 Irom a wound of the floor of the mouth, iii the situation of the AVhartonian duct. Tlie Avoiind Avas caused by the accidental slipping of a pair of tooth- I forceps during extraction of the first molar tooth. As the Avound healed a r ranula formed, the contents of Avhich Avere thick and ropy, like the natural