TREATMEXT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. 163 other, of those to wliicli the left recurrent nerve is distributed. It is the paralysis of the crico-aryteuoideus j)osticus muscle that is so especially dis- tressing and dangerous ; for by its jmralysis the corresponding side of the glottis is closed. IMore rarely by far, the right bronchus is compressed by the extension of the tumour downwards. Dysphagia is of sufficiently frequent occurrence, and varies from slight uneasiness in deglutition to an impossibility of swallowing anything except fluids. I have never seen it occur Avithout having been preceded by dyspnoea; and, in every instance that has fallen under my observation, it has been asso- ciated with laryngeal dyspnoea. The coincidence of these two symptoms is readily explained by the anatomy of the parts ; the recurrent nerve, lying be- tween the sac and oesophagus, must suffer compression before the mucous canal be interfered with. Progxosis.—The prognosis of brachio-cephalic aneurism is in the highest degree unfavourable, though the disease frequently does not run a rapid course. If it extend upwards and outwards, the tumour may acquire a very large size before any very important organ or part is implicated ; but if it press back- wards and iuAvards, it may prove fatal at an early period. I know of but one case of spontaneous cure (reported by J. Ogle), and but few instances in which the rupture of the sac has taken place. The most frequent cause of death is asphyxia, from spasmodic closure or paralysis of the larynx induced by pressure on the recuiTent nerve ; or from pressure on the trachea. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of innominate anein-ism is usually sufficiently easy, if attention be paid to the symptoms that have just been detailed. But at times the difficulty is so great as to baffle the most sagacious Physicians and most experienced Surgeons ; that Avhich has during life been considered to be an aneurism of the innominate artery, having, after death, proved to be one of the summit of the aortic arch rising up into the root of the neck behind the right steriio-mastoid, or overlapping the brachio- cephalic trunk. The task of overcoming this difficulty in diagnosis must be left to the tact of the Sui’geon. But it is impossible to OA'er-estimate its importance, when the question of ligaturing the arteries at the root of the neck for a supposed innominate aneurism is contemplated ; for, in at least three cases in which this operation has been done, the arch of the aorta has been found to be the seat of disease, the innominate in two of the cases being unaffected by aneurism. I am acquainted also with a fourth case, in which the operation Avas commenced, but was abandoned, as the subclavian could not be reached ; the patient dying a few days afterwards, the aneurism AV'as fonnd to be aortic, rising up into the root of the neck, the innominate being sound. Treatment.—There are several instances on record in A\diich a properly conducted course of constitutional treatment has cured the patient; thus a,case of Luke’s was permanently cured by small and repeated bleedings, conjoined Avith the administration of digitalis. In connection with such treatment, distal pressure might be employed, as in a case that deriA’cd benefit from this plan in Syine’s hands. In aneurism of the innominate, the A'essel is so short, and the sac so situated, that it is impossible to attempt to apply a ligature on the cai'diac side of the tumour. What resource, then, does surgery offer in these cases beyond the employment of constitutional and dietetic means ? It may be answered to M 2