SPECIAL JIERNLE. 8i2 jiectino- liimsclf to liave reached the iieij^libourhood of tlie visciis, Imt believing; that he has met witli a sac which does not exist. As the })rotruded parts are generally adherent in these cases, the Surgeon must content himself with leav- ing them unreduced after the division of the stricture; in such circumstances, it has happened that the protrusion is ultimately drawn back into the abdomen by some natural action of the parts. Operations for strangulated inguinal hernia arc required during a greater range of ages than those for any other kind of ])rotrusion. I have operated successfnlly for congenital hernia in infants less than six weeks old, and for ordinary oblique inguinal hernia at seven weeks and at four months of age; and the operation has been done on centenarians. When small and recent, the protrusion usually consists of intestine only ; when large, it commonly contains omentum as well The treatment of these contents, and the after- management of the case, must be conducted in accordance with the rules laid down at p. 787 et seq., Yol. II. Hernia in the Tunica Vaginalis : Congenital Hernia.—In this case the hernia descends by the unobliterated processus ’S'aginalis of the peri- toneum inside the tunica vaginalis, which constitutes its sac. It is always oblique, and takes the course of the spermatic cord, most commonly descend- ing into the scrotum, but sometimes lying within the canal, out of which perhaps the testis has imperfectly passed. This hernia differs from an ordi- nary oblique hernia in the absence of a peritoneal sac of new formation, the protruded parts lying in the tunica vaginalis in contact with the testicle (Fig. 70G). The great peculiarity, indeed, of this hernia, consists in, its descending along the canal left open by the descent of the testis. In the foetus the testis originally lies below the kidney, and, as it descends in the later months of intra-uterine life-into the inguinal canal and scrotum, it pulls down a prolongation of the peri- toneum, exactly resembling a hernial sac. In addition to this defective closure of the vaginal process of the peritoneum, there is another anatomical condition which tends to the formation of a congenital inguinal hernia—viz., an abnormally long mesentery. This, unlike the open peritoneal process, is not necessary to the formation of the hernia, but when existing it is a material factor in its production, and is attended by this serious inconveuieuce, that it is an obstacle to. the radical cure of the hernia by the closure of the open funicular process of peritoneum by the pressure of a truss. That prolongation of the peritoneum which is carried down around the testis in its descent, may be divided into two portions, the funicular and the testi- cular. The funicular is that which corresponds to the cord, extending from the internal ring to the scrotum ; the tesiicular is that which becomes the tunica A'aginalis. A congenital hernia occurs in consequence of the funicular prolongation not becoming, as in the normal condition, converted into a fil«* mentous fibro-cellular tissue, but remaining pervious, and thus serving as a medium of communication between the general cavity of the peritoneuni am the tunica vaginalis; and along the open channel thus left the congenital hernia descends. ‘ Fii^. TtKi.—Congenital Hernia.