POP LITE A L ANEURISM—JJOUPLE—DIFFUSED. 251 inwards. It is important that tlic fascia closing the canal should be opened freely, otherwise should i)iis form, it may burrow along the artery into the ham. The External Iliac Artery may require to be tied in ctises of popliteal aneurism, when the superficial and common femorals are so diseased as not to admit ligature. This occurred once to me. A gentleman who had lost the left foot and leg from spontaneous gangrene, became two years afterwards the subject of a large poiiliteal aneurism in the other leg. As compression tailed, it was decided to tie the superficial femoral. On cutting down on the vessel the coats were found so diseased, the artery itself being cylindrically dilated and slightly aneurismal, that the operation was abandoned ; and, as the common femoral felt dilated and almost incompressible fi’om calcification of its coats, it was decided to tie the external iliac. This I did with the able assistance of Sir W. Fergusson, at a rather high point, the vessel being some- what dilated and calcified lower down. Pulsation recurred in the tiunour a few hours after the operation, the collateral circulation being very free, and the patient died of secondary hemorrhage on the fifteenth day. Dourle Popliteal Aneurism.—In cases of this kind the artery has been occasionally ligatured with advantage on both sides, either simultaneously, or, with more safety, consecutively. But these cases appear to me especially adapted for the employment of pi'essure, so as to avoid that disturbance of the balance of the circulation which is certain to ensue when one vessel is ligatured, and which may act injuriously upon the opposite aneurism. When the popliteal aneurism is conjoined with a similar disease in the groin, ligature of the external iliac is the proper course to pursue, and will effect a cm’e of both affections. Diffused Popliteal Aneurism.—When a popliteal aneurism suddenly becomes dijfused, the patient is seized with faintness or sickness, with pain, numbness, and a hot trickling sensation in the limb, the temperature of which falls at the same time that its bulk increases, whilst the integument assumes a white, shining, mottled appearance, with more or less purplish dis- coloration. After a time as the tension increases inflammation is set up, and the skin becomes red, hot, and oedematous, and the whole swelling may resemble in appearance a large abscess. Diffusion usually occurs after a circumscribed aneurism has existed in the ham for some weeks or months, and on the occuiTence of some sudden exertion. In some cases, however, the disease appears to have been diffused from the very first, the coats having given way, and extravasation having taken place into the areolar tissue of the limb, without previous consolidation of the parts around the artery, or any attempt at the formation of a sac. In these cases the extravasation into the limb may either be conjoined with mucli oedema ; or it may be confined to the areolar tissue of the ham, and to the iqiper and back part of the leg, or may extend downwards under the muscles of the calf. When the patient comes under the observation of the Surgeon, the tumour is found to be solid, clastic, and irregidar, without jiulsation or bruit; the limb oedematous, cold, and con- gested. The diagnosis of this form of aneurism is often extremely difficult, and there is great danger of confounding it with siin])le extravasation into the calf, with abscess, or, ])0ssibly, with malignant tumour of the leg. Treatment.—fl’lie danger attending 011 ])opliteal aneurism is greatly increased by its becoming diffused. In these circumstances the ligature of