292 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. is no evidence that it, in any circumstances, undergoes absorption to any great extent; although, as Paget and Billroth remark, that portion which remains in contact with proliferating gi’anulations may undergo a certain amount of diminution. That this may be so is rendered more probable by the fact that the ivory pegs used in the treatment of ununited fracture have been found to be partly absorbed after some weeks. The absorption of the margin of the living bone, in the formation of the line of separation, explains the fact that the sequestrum will always be found to be of much smaller size than the cavity in which it is lodged. The ultimate expulsion of the loosened seques- trum is effected by the growth of the granulations below it pushing it off the surface, or out of the cavity in which it lies. When the necrosed bone is peripheral, it will be readily thrown off in this way, although it may for a time be fixed and entangled amongst the granulations. When the sequestrum is invaginafed within new or old bone, the process of elimination is necessarily very tardy, and may be difficult or impossible without surgical aid. The time required for the separation of dead bone varies greatly. When it is superficial and small in size, a few weeks may suffice ; but when the long or flat bones, as the femur, th-^ scapula, or the ilium, are affected, the process may be extended over several years, and may terminate in the death of the patient from exhaustion before it is concluded ; the constitution being harassed and worn out by hectic induced by profuse suppm’atioii. Or the disease may fall into a chronic state, the limb becoming rigid, and the tissues much indurated, with fistulous apertures leading down to exposed but attached bone, and thus being a source of constant annoyance and suffering to the patient. During the process of separation of a piece of dead bone and after the , abscess first formed has burst, fistulous openings are left leading to the sequestrum through which pus is constantly discharged. The skin is unaltered , in appearance, unless the sequestrum be seated in a superficial bone, when ^ it is usually rigid and often red, smooth and shining. The soft; parts siu"- , rounding the bone are always more or less indurated. The openings of ' sinuses leading to dead bone are usually surrounded by an elevated ring of , granulation tissue, often thinly covered by epithelium, the orifice presenting | a peculiar appearance, Avhich the older surgeons compared to the cloacal i aperture of a fowl. [ Reparative Process.—The reparative process adopted by nature for the | restoration of the integrity of the bone, a portion of which has necrosed, varies j according to the extent of the loss of substance. When the outer lamellfe alone are necrosed, new bone is deposited by the surrounding periosteum, and the depression that has formed on the surface of the old bone is filled up by granulation-tissue, which ultimately ossifies. If the whole of the inner himell?e of the shaft die, constituting central necrosis, the outer layers of bone become greatly consolidated and thickened by osseous matter deposited from the periosteum ; in which, in the majority of cases, the circular or oval aper- tures termed Gloaccc are left for the escape of pus and the ultimate extrusion of the sequestrum (Tig. 605). Incases of “necrosis without suppuration’ (p. 290), however, no cloacae form, the dead bone continuing to be encased in the thickened outer layers. When the whole of a shaft dies, the reproduction takes '■ place from various sources, principally from the periosteum, which is, indeed, 1 essentially the organ of reproduction of bone ; this becomes thickened and !