VARIETIES OF ARTERITIS. «5 fl .■ i., C' I f; J: t r ii I if 'Sur<^eon in connection Avith contusion, laceration, wound, or ligature of arteries ; for in the early period of repair after any of these injuries, inflam- matory exudation from the vasa-vasorum forms an essential part of the process. For a description of this condition, the reader is referred to Yol. I., Chap. XIV. Arteritis by Extension, from infective inflammation or ulceration of the tissues surrounding the vessel, has already been described as one of the dangers accompanying these processes. In inflammation affecting an arteiy in this Avay. the process is the same as in other tissues. The vessels of the outer coat axe dilated, inflammatory exudation A\dth migration of corpuscles takes place, and the AA'andering cells infiltrate the coats of the artery, AAdiich become SAAmllen and softened. The process spreads from the outer to the inner coat, the ■endothelium desquamates, and fibrin is deposited upon the diseased smfface. ' In the smaller arteries complete thrombosis takes place, and the clot extends upwards to the nearest branch beyond the inflamed part of the A^essel, and may then undergo the changes already described as occurring in the per- manent closure of an artery (Yol. I., ^Founds of Arteries), and hmmorrhage is thus prevented. In arteries above the size of the radial, howeA^er, the closure of the A'essel is frequently not accomplished before the coats are so far softened as to giA'e way before the pressure of the blood, and thus fatal hmmorrhage may result. This is all the more likely to occur when the in- flammation and subsequent ulceration affect a limited portion of one side only of the artery as in those cases in which it is due to the contact of an irri- tating foreign body, such as a sequestrum. In the larger arteries complete thrombosis occurs much less readily than in smaller vessels or in veins, the rapidity of the flow of the blood being unfavourable to the adliesion of the white corpuscles Avhich is the first step in thrombosis. In arteries which haA'e been dmded and secured by ligature or othei’Avise, ;the extension of unhealthy inflammation from the wound to the exposed end :)f the A'essel, folloAved by softening of its coats, and disintegration of the con- jr'ained clot is the commonest cause of secondary hmmorrhage. Embolic Arteritis.—Moxon has pointed out that a form of acute arteritis, resulting in softening and swelling of the arterial Avail, thus leading to the formation of an aneurism or to ruptm’e of the A'essel, is in rare cases the •result of the lodgment of an embolus. A simj)le fibrinous embolus lodging in an artery merely obliterates the vessel without causing softening of its coats. In order that inflammatory softening may occur, it is necessary that ;he emlx^lus should be derived from a part Avhich is the seat of some infectiA'c nflammation, and that it should cany Avith it the unhealthy products of the process. Embolic arteritis is most likely to ocenr in the someAvhat rare aftpe- i:ion, knoAA'ii as ulceratiA’e or infectiA^e endocarditis, but it has also been knoAvn ‘ :o folloAv embolism during the course of an ordinary case of acute rheumatism. -Localised arteritis arising in this Avay is belicA'ed to be the most common, if f lot the sole cause of spontaneous aneurisms in children, and in the smaller vessels of the extremities in adults. Ilushton I’arker has recorded a case vvhich Avell illustrates this form of disease. A boy, aged 14, during an Attack of acute rheumatism Avas suddenly seized Avith pain in the forearm, olloAved by sAvelling of the limb. The general sAvelling soon subsided, leaA'ing I deeply seated circumscribed tumour, Avhich steadily increased in size for the lext four months. On laying this open a cavity AA'as ex]X)scd containing ]uorc