II 326 DISEASES OF JOINTS. tincture of iodine. This plan, a sufficiently bold one, has been much employed by Jobert, Velpeau, and Bonnet. These Surgeons used the tincture diluted •with two or three parts of water. A small trochar is introduced into the joint, a moderate quantity of the serous fluid is let out, but not all, and then a corresponding quantity of the iodine solution is thrown in ; and after being left for a few minutes, is allowed to escape. Inflammation of the joint, which is a necessary result of this procedure, comes on. This is treated by ordinary antiphlogistic means, and, according to the statements of the French Sm^geons, has in no case been followed by any serious consequences, but in several instances a complete cure without ankylosis has resulted ; a new and healthy action having been imprinted on the synovial membrane. This mode of treatment does not appear hitherto to have met with much support in this country ; yet it certainly deserves a trial, though recourse should not lightly be had to it, as it is evident that the induced inflammation might exceed the expected limits. In one case of hydrarthrosis of the knee, in an old man, in which I employed it, about six ounces of thin synovia were drawn off, and a drachm of strong tincture of iodine was injected into the joint. Slight i inflammation only ensued ; and the disease, which was of two years’ standing, j was completely cured. The chief points that appear to require attention are | that no inflammation be going on at the time, there being no tenderness or | pain in moving the joint, the effusion being quite passive, and of a very chronic character ; and, above all, that no air be allowed to enter with the ; injected fluid. If other methods of treatment fail, the joint may be drained by means of an India-rubber tube inserted with all antiseptic precautions. It may be retained for ten days or a fortnight, the dressing throughout being : strictly antiseptic. The carbolic gauze dressing will be found the safest in = these cases. After dropsy of the joint has been removed, the articulation is i usually left weak for some length of time, in consequence of the stretching to ) which its ligaments have been subjected : here cold douches and an elastic > bandage will constitute the best mode of treatment. ACUTE AKTHEITIS. By Acute Arthritis is meant an acute inflammation affecting the synovial i membrane and rapidly extending from it to the other structures that enter | into the formation of a joint. The disease may arise primarily in the synovial membrane, or the affection of the synovial membrane may be secondary to i disease beginning in the bones or in the soft parts around the joint. In the > latter case, the symptoms characteristic of acute arthritis do not set in mitil !■ the mischief has extended to the cavity of the joint. In some forms of acute > arthritis the symptoms clearly indicate that the inflammation of the synovial : membrane precedes that of the ligaments, while in others the extension is so • rapid that all the structures of the joint may seem to be affected simultaneously. It will be most convenient to describe first the symptoms and pathological |s changes which are characteristic of acute arthritis from whatever cause it may | arise, and afterwards to point out the modifications of the process dependent ( upon its mode of origin. ; S3rmptoms.—The symptoms of acute arthritis that are most marked are | the pain, heat, swelling, and peculiar position of the joint. The ]}am is often severe, tensive, and throbbing : so acute is it sometimes, that the patient >