T 7 64 DISEASES OF'THE TESTIS AND (JOED. the cord, ibr Avhicli he was admitted into tlie Hospital. The tumour was incised, and, large masses of coagula Averc turned out. Tlie ])atient sliortly after, in the absence of assistance, suddenly became faint and died of venous haemorrhage. The bleeding was found to have proceeded from a ruptured spermatic vein. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of Auiricoccle is ahA'ays sufficiently easy ; its peculiar convoluted feel, its broad base and narroAV apex, the manner in Avhich it goes up Avhen the patient lies down, and returns again Avhen he stands uji, are sufficient to distinguish it from all other scrotal tumours. From inguinal lierma the disease may be distinguished by attention to the test described at p. 810, Vol. II. Treatment.—The treatment of varicocele must be conducted Avith reference to the severity of the symptoms occasioned by it, and to the extent of the disease. When, as is usually the case, it gives rise to but slight incoiiA’enience, palliatiA'e treatment is fully sufficient; but if, as occasionally happens, the disease be a source of very intense suffering, or tend to the induction of atrophy of the testis, or to generative debility, with much mental disquietude or hypochoudiiasis, then the Surgeon may feel disposed to endeavour to cure the Amricocele radically. The Palliative Treatment of varicocele resolves itself into means of various hinds, haAung for their object the support of the testis and the diminution of the length, and of the consequent pressure, of the column of blood. This is usually most conveniently done by supporting the scrotum in a well-made suspensory bandage ; or pressure may be made upon the part, as well as support given, by enclosing the testis in an elastic bag. In other cases, support may be afforded by draAAung the lower portion of the scrotum on the affected side through a ring made of soft metal, coA^ered with leather, or better still, through a small vulcanized India-rubber ring, so as to shorten the cord. And, with the same object, excision of the lower portion of the scrotum has been recommended ; so that, by the contraction of the cicatrix, the testis may be pressed np against the ring, and the cord thus shortened. This plan,. howcA’er, is somewhat seAnre ; and though it might be attended by temporaiy benefit, the advantage accruing is not likely to be A'ery continuous. The pressure of the pad of a truss on the spermatic cord, as it issues from the external ring, AA'ill break the length of the column of blood in its A^eins, and might thus be of service. But many patients cannot bear the irksome pressure of the instrument, moreover, it must also be remembered that it Avill at the same time obstruct the return of blood, and consequently in all probability do as much harm as good. In addition to these mechanical means, the part may be braced by cold douching, sea-bathing, and the general strength improA'^ed by the administra- tion of iron. The Radical Cure of Varicocele consists in tlie obliteration of the enlarged A'cins, on the same jirinciplo. that guides us in the management of varix in other situations. The circumstances for Avhich ojieration may be and has been practised in this disease can be arranged in the folloAving categories. 1. AVhen the existence of a A'aricocele disqualifies the sufferer from admission into the public services, there is, in ray o])inion, a perfectly legitimate reason for operating. One of the eases in whicb I have effected a radical cure was