1 232 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. In Abcrnethy’s method, modified as above described, tliere is no fear of wounding the epigastric unless the incision Ije carried too far at its lower end. The artery may be roughly said to run in a line drawn from the point at which the femoral artery crosses the brim of tlie pelvis to the umbilicus. In neither method of operating should the incision implicate the external ring, lest it give rise to a tendency to hernial protrusion. Care should be taken not ! to Avound the peritoneum ; for, although two patients in Avhom this was done | by Post and Tait both recovered, yet it is of course a dangerous accident, and ^ should if possible be avoided. The ])eritoneuramust not be toni up more than i is absolutely necessary, lest haemorrhage or subsequent peritojiitis occur. In ; raising the peritoneum, care must be taken not to displace the artery which ■ lies loosely in the subperitoneal tissue, and can be easily raised in the spatula, - or pushed over the brim of the pelvis. The separation of the peritoneum is j much facilitated by the Surgeon holding the outer cut edge of the transversalis | fascia tightly in his forceps with one hand, Avhilst with the other he gently raises the bag of the serous membrane out of the iliac fossa, and sejAarates its areolar connections there. All this must be done with the utmost gentleness and care. Before attempting to pass a ligature round the vessel, the thin fascia coA^ering it must be scratched through ; and the areolar connections Avith the vein, Avhich are very thin and loose, must be separated by means of . a director, or the end of the aneurism-needle. The artery must be well : cleared, and especial care taken that the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve is not included in the noose. It is better not to use the knife deep in i the wound. Lastly, the sac, if it extend high, must not be weakened by t haAdng its peritoneal covering stripped off. Results.—Ligature of the external iliac Avas first practised by Abemethy . in 1796. During the following fifty years there were 100 recorded cases of the operation for inguinal aneurism (Norris) ; of these 73 were cm-ed and 27 I died. Babe’s statistics, Avith 30 cases added by Barwell, give 141, with 31 deaths, or nearly 22 per cent. Among the oases collected by Norris is one in Avhich both external iliacs : Avere ligatured successfully at an interval of eleven months by Tait. In some few cases also, there was the complication of an aneurism in the ? ham with that in the groin. Of ninety-two cases in which the aneurism Avas i seated solely in the groin, seventy were cured and tAventy-two died. Death i resulted from gangrene of the limb in eight, from secondary haemorrhage in i four, from sloughing of the sac in three, from tetanus in three, and from ; causes of a more general character in four cases. Pulsation returned in the sac in six of the cases collected by Norris ; in 3 some not until several weeks had elapsed after the operation ; and in one ^ instance only Avas it folloAved by death. Sujppuration of the sac A\*as of frequent occurrence, happening in thirteen instances, doubtless owing to the large size that these tumours are often allowed to attain before being subjected / to surgical interference. It is remarkable, hoAvever, that in three cases only . Avas this accident fatal ; and in tAVO of these three instances the sac had been !r opened before the operation, on the supposition of its being an abscess. ^ Secondary hcemorrliaye occurred in but six cases, four of Avhich proved fatal ; , a very small proi^ortion Avhen compared Avith Avhat happens in other situations. This must doubtless be attributed in a great measure to the absence of any collateral branches springing from the trunk of the external iliac ; the distance !'•]