883 AFTEli-TREATMENT OF FISTULA IX AXO. r 1 i, pushes down its point, brings both tingor and blade out at the anal aperture, I cuttiug through the whole thickness of the parts between this and the ; tistnla, so as to lay the two cavities into one. Care should be taken to i divide the sphincter in a direct and not an oblique manner, lest a flap or fold i be left which will interfere with the pro])ei’ healing of the wound. In perform- I ing this operation, the Surgeon should cut with his left hand if the fistula be j upon the left side; and in either case should be careful not to wound his j own finger, as such cuts often prove troublesome in healing. Where the external aperture or apertures of the fistula are at some distance from the gut, \ I the integuments being undermined to a considerable extent, perhaps thinned, I Moft, and bluish, all the superficial sinuses should be slit up ; and, in those I: ;ases in which the coui-se of the fistula runs more or less at a right angle witli ,iy I hat of the external sinus, it is necessary to do so before the deep or internal Ml-istula can be reached, through Avhich the sphincter must be divided. If the Tl 'istula be a blind external one, it must at the time of the operation be made pi tomplete, by scratching with the end of the knife through the thinned struc- •|:ures that intervene between its extremity and the interior of the gut; and I he operation must then be completed in the way described. The Surgeon fliiust not be too ready to conclude that the fistula has no internal opening, as I i is important that it should be laid open if it exists. A long and careful ijiearch with a probe should therefore be made in all cases in which an internal ill;; perture is not at once found. If it be a blind internal fistula, a bent j)robe :M lould be passed up the anus and through the inner opening of the fistula into le canal. The end of this, which can be felt externally, must be exposed by ^ puncture made through the integuments with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and M le operation then concluded in the ordinary way. f| When there is an internal aperture into the gut, this will usually be found i I'lst above the sphincter ; the fistula, however, may not terminate here, but al equently extends up by the side of the gut for an inch or two. In these liv rcumstiinces, what should be done with the cul-de-sac above the inner aperture ? if ' it be laid open, an extensive and deep wound will be inflicted, which may iplicate some of the haemorrhoidal vessels, and thus give rise to a dangerous lount of bleeding. Hence I think it a safer practice for the Surgeon to con- jU iit himself with the division of the sphincter and all the parts intervening 41 tween the inner apertm-e of the fistula and the verge of the anus ; the sinus till lich is left usually contracting and closing without difficulty when this has |l| i:*n done. In some cases it happens, however, that this cul-de-sac is not 'iwidily obliterated, but gives rise to a good deal of trouble in consequence of in i occasional accumulation of pus in it, and the thickening of its aperture II o the bowel cau.scs spasmodic contraction of the sphincter and a kind of I :tal stricture. This inconvenience gradually subsides in most cases, under * use of astringent injections or the introduction of a probe armed with rate of silver. If the integuments around the fistula have been much .ffllermined and thinned so as to leave loose flaps at the edges of the incision, '1M cure will be materially hastened by cutting these off. A half-grain morphia #1 ipository may be introduced at the time of the operation. Yl The after-treatment should be as simple as possible, and directed to ^ ure closure of the wound by granulation from the bottom. A narrow ■ ^ ) of oiled lint should be introduced between the lips of the wound, and this 8l l)e left in for forty-eight hours, during which time the bowels are kept