, :i I SYPI fill TIC T£S TIC LE—S J \MPTOMS AND niSTOLOCY. H73 liiuitinj^ it to u small j)art of the surface of the testicle. Most commonly only one testicle is ail'ected, but both may he attacked. In the localized form the induration is limited to one or more portions of the gland, the remainder being soft and healthy. Structure.—On making a section from before backwards, the following- appearances are found. If hydrocele exist, the tunica vaginalis will be opaque and thickened, and iwobably adherent at various points to the surface of the testicle. If no hydrocele be present, the tunica vaginalis may he uniformly adlierent. The tunica albuginea will always be found greatly and iiTegularly thickened, and from it proceed opaque white dense fibroid processes into the substance of the gland. These may in extreme cases be so abundant that no healthy gland-substance can be seen between them ; in less severe cases, patches of healthy tubular substance are found at various parts of the organ. A process of cicatricial contraction taking place in these fibroid processes may lead to a dimpling of the surface of the organ. The microscope shows that the change is due to an inflammatory small round-celled growth, which aftenvards undergoes a development into a dense fibroid tissue, situated in the connective tissue between the tubuli seminiferi (Fig. 976). The new growth separates and presses on the tubules, and may cause their destruction in large areas. The Gummatous Form is an aggravation of that just described, and presents the same symptoms, with the addition of those caused by the presence of the gummata. These form hard craggy nodules on the surface of the gland, the irregularities so produced being much greater than those arising from simple fibroid induration. The gummata have little tendency to soften, and discharge externally ; yet in rare cases they may do so. Structure.—On making a section of a gland in this condition, more or less of the fibroid induration, above described, will always be found combined with thicken- ing of the tunics of the testicle. The gummata vary iu size, from a pea to Fig. 975.—SyiiliiUtic (iiunnmtft of tlip TphUs. o, h. Guiiininta cut across : c. Section of Globus minor : and d. Cord. a hazel-nut. They are of an opaque yellow colour, irregular shape, and (knse leathery hardness. They may be toleralily sharply circumscribed to the naked eye, but are usually surrounded by a zone of fibrous induration of an opaque white colour. 'I’he microscope shows around them the same small- celled growth above described, situated between the tubules. Nearer the centre the tubules are found to be pressed upon and destroyed, and the cells