451 PATHOLOGY OF IIIP-JOINT DISEASE. the ilium. In these cases the remains of the dislocated head can be felt through the thin and Aveakened muscles in its new situation. Pathology.—It is very rarely that the opportunity occurs of examining a hip-joint in the ciirlicr stages of coxalgia. By the time the patient dies or where excision is performed, the ligaments are swollen and softened, the synovial membrane is represented by a pulpy mass of granulation tissue, the cartilages have more or less completely disappeared, and the denuded osseous surfaces both of the acetabulum and femur are in a state of fungatiug caries. It seems probable that cases running the clinical course just described, may commence as primary tubercular inflammation of the synovial membrane, or as tubercular caries of the bones secondarily extending to the synovial mem- brane. The evidence derived from the few cases which have been examined at an early stage, tends to prove that the former is the exception and the latter the rule, and moreover that the bone in which the disease commences is almost invariably the femur. The growing tissue between the epiphysis of the head and the neck, or beneath the articular cartilage, seems to be a common starting point for the disease. The folloAving appearances found m a child about eight years old, who died in University College Hospital of pneumonia, and whose body was carefully examined by Wilson Fox, is a good example of the early conditions met with in tubercular arthritis of the hip. The symptoms of hip-disease had existed only about six AA'eeks. The joint, which, including the acetabulum and capsule, was removed entire, contained a considerable quantity of dirty yellow pus. The ligamentum teres was flattened and covered with spots of yellow lymph : it was much softened, tearing with the greatest ease. The synovial membrane Avas generally greatly thickened, intensely injected, of colour varying from bright red to dull orange, and covered by spots of yellow lymph. The cartilage lining the acetabulum appeared to be healthy, except just around the insertion of the ligamentum teres, where it was softer and more gelatinous-looking than normal for about one to two lines. The cartilage incrusting the head of the femur appeared at first sight to be entirely unaffected. On making a vertical section through the acetabulum, and the head and neck of the femur, the great trochanter was found unossified, with the exception of a point in its centre, and its connection to the bone Avas weak and easily tom asunder. The epiphysis of the head was almost completely ossified ; the line of junction being still, hoAvever, marked by a band of bluish and A’ery hard cartilage,- Avhich extended for about three lines on each side across the bone. In the centre of this, extending both into the epiphysis and the (liaphysis, was an eburnated portion of bone, yellow, hard, dense, and com- pact, these peculiarities being most marked in the portion belonging to the diaphysis. In most parts this mass contrasted strongly in colour and in consistence Avith the reddened cancellous tissue. The incrusting cartilage, though generally appearing healthy externally, could noAv be seen to be a good deal Avorm-eaten internally, and indeed, destroyed at one or tAvo points. Where the mass of hard bone came near the surface, the reflexion of the synovial membrane Av.a.s destroyed. BcIoav this, in the neck and the upper part of the shaft, the cancellous tissue AA'as very lax, the Avails being A'ery thin, and the medulla filling them extraordinarily red. The medulla at the com- mencement of the medullary canal, about one inch and a half bcloAV the tro- chanter, Avas exceedingly red and vascular. Occupying many spots of the 0 0 2