404 EXCISION OF JOINTS. the knife being carried close to the bone, and the whole under surface of the os calcis thus exposed. A perpendicular incision, about two inches in length, is then made behind the heel, through the tendo Achillis, in the mid-line and into the horizontal one. The tendon is then detached from its insertion and the two lateral flaps are dissected up, the knife being kept close to the bones, fi-om which the soft parts are well cleared (Fig. 558). The blade is then carried over the upper and posterior part of the os calcis, the articulation is opened, the interosseous ligaments are divided, and then, by a few touches with the point, the bone is detached from its connections with the cuboid. This bone, together with the astragalus, must then be examined ; and if any disease be met with, the gouge should be applied. Should ankylosis have taken place between the os calcis and the astragalus, as I have found in one case, the bones may readily be divided by means of Butcher’s saw. By this operation all injury to the sole is avoided; and the open angle of the wound being the most dependent, a ready outlet is afforded for the discharges. The drawing (Fig. 559) gives an excellent representation of the state of the foot of a girl before and after the excision of a diseased os calcis—a somewhat flattened but most useful foot resulting. Subperiosteal Excision.— Ollier has described a mode of removing the os calcis, in such a way that the periosteum may be preserved so as to allow the regeneration of the bone. A curved incision, commencing on the outside of the tendo Achillis, at the level of the ankle-joint, is carried down as far as the external tuberosity of the os calcis, and thence along the side of the foot, as far as the posterior end of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flap being' raised, the periosteum and tendo Achillis are separated from the bone, wliich i is then further denuded of its periosteum as far as can be reached, thei ligamentous attachments are divided, and the bone is removed. In fact, in | caries of the os calcis, it may often be found, as in performing Syme’s amputa- • tion, that the thickened periosteum strips off the softened and carious bone i as readily as the peel off an orange ; hence a formal process of dissection is 1 scarcely needed. History and Results.—Excision of the os calcis is a very successful operation. | It seems to have been first performed by Monteggia in 1813 ; the result appeared promising, when the patient died of scrofulous disease. The opera- tion then fell into abeyance for twenty-four years, when Robert, in 1837, in a case of necrosis of the bone, removed the diseased portion, leaving the healthy peripheral layer. The same Surgeon, in 1844, in a case of caries, removed the whole bone with the exception of its upper articular surface and the inner side of the body. Greenhow of Newcastle, in this country, and Rigaud, in France, appear to have been the first Surgeons who successfiilly excised the whole oi i the os calcis. Their cases both occm’red in 1848 ; and since that time th( operation has been performed in a large number of cases in this country and ii America, and established as one of the many important developments mad< in late years by Conservative Surgery. In France, it seems to have met witl | little favour, though it has been successfully performed there in severa I instances, by Ollier, Giraldes, and some other Surgeons. Guerin says tha I the operation should not be attempted : and gives as his only reason fo I describing the operative procedure, that English Surgeons have not feared t I undertake it. _ I Polaillon, of Paris, in an able article written in 1869, with the object c I