CAUSES AND SYMPTOMS OF PHLEBITIS. 57 Spreading phlebitis may arise also Avithout an injury in the veins leading from many infective inflammations. Either the trunk may be involved in the inflamed area or thrombosis may extend into it from the smaller veins and A'eimles. In either case the clot becomes impregnated Avith the infective material, and undergoes changes of the same character as those just described. In some cases of pyo3mia or septicajinia, thrombosis may occur, as has been already pointed out, in parts distant from the seat of infection, and in these j cases it softens and causes inflammation of the coats of the vessel. It is a possible explanation of this phenomenon that the blood contains before coagu- lation some noxious material, Avhich causes the subsequent softening and dis- integration. In support of this theory is the fact that micrococci are found abundantly in the debris of the broken doAvn clot. Diffiise inflammation spreading from an unhealthy AAmund along the areolar tissue surrounding a vein may, in. some cases, give rise to inflammation of its coats. In addition to the above forms of the disease, phlebitis is frequently met Avith Avithout our being able definitely to explain its mode of origin, and it has therefore been said to be idiopathic. This form almost invariably affects one of the large veins of the lower extremity, usually the saphena, but occa- sionally the popliteal, femoral, or iliac. Most commonly the vein attacked has long suffered from varix. It seems to be most frequent Avhen erysipelas is epidemic, but the relation betAveen the two affections is not proved. The inflammation extends to the surrounding areolar tissue, and may occasionally, but rarely, end in suppuration. The clot then disintegrates, the Avails of the vein give way, and the debris mix with the surrounding pus ; but even Avhen this happens, there is but little tendency to extension of the mischief, the disintegrating clot being shut off on each side by an adherent unsoftened thrombus. When suppuration does not follow the risk of disintegration and embolism is very slight, but it does sometimes occur and cause death. Sir James Paget has pointed out that “ idiopathic ” phlebitis commonly affecting the long saphenous, but occasionally the deeper veins, is not uncom- mon in gouty subjects. It may occur in different parts of the same vein at the same time, and is very liable to relapses. He has termed the affection “ gouty phlebitis,” and believes that it commences as a gouty inflammation of the coats of the vein. Pathological Axatomy.—The coats of an inflamed vein arc swollen and rigid, and of a redder tint than natural from injection of the vessels of the outer coat. The surrounding tissues are usually oedematous. In septic or infective phlebitis the walls of the vein are softened, and often give Avay opposite the disintegrating portions of the clot ; and wherever this happens a collection of pus forms outside the vessel. The conditions of the thrombi in inflamed veins have already been sufficiently described (sec Yenous Throm- bosis). IMicroscopic examination shoAvs the coats of the A-eiu to be infiltrated with small round cells ; the endothelium is at first SAVollen, and if softening of the thrombus takes place is lost in the disintegi’ating clot. Symptoms.—In idiopathic or gouty phlebitis of a superficial A'ein the symptoms arc very evident. The patient has usually suffered from A-aricosc veins before the attack. The inflammation is localized, usually affecting a fcAA' inches of the vessel, and sometimes two or more parts at the same time. The