SUPRA-PUIilC LIT now M W 987 j been fully exposed, must now be secured by a tenaculum passed completely ^ throuo;h its coats. Some Surgeons prefer two tcnacula, between which the t opening may l)c made. The object of thus securing the bladder is to prevent [. its being lost behind the pubes as soon as its contents are let out. The inci- •sion into it must be made with the edge of the knife directed towards the pubes. The finger is then introduced, followed by the forceps, and the stone withdinwii. In doing this no force must be used, lest the rent should extend to the peritoneal surface. Should the original opening be too small, it must be enlarged towards the pubes with a probe-pointed bistoury till the calculus can be drawn out without violence. The stone being remo^-ed, three courses are open to the Surgeon : he may close the bladder and the external Avound Avith sutures; he may scav up the bladder and leaA'c the external wound open ; or he may leaA^e both open and insert a large drainage-tube. Further experience is yet required before it can be definitely stated Avhich of these is the best. It Avas hoped that by adopting 'the first method, and at the same time performing the operation Avith anti- 'Septic precautions, that complete union by the first intention might be obtained, 'but at present the results of this mode of treatment haA'e not been very satis- ifactoiy, and it is now generally agreed that if sutures are applied at all, it is ' better in all cases to leave the external Avound open, as it is a great safeguard iagainst infiltnition of urine, and the delay of a few days while it heals by ^^granulation is a matter of little consequence. If sutures are applied, they tf'should be of catgut, and should include the muscular coat only, missing the raucous membrane. If the opening be A’ery large, the lower part of it, when -the bladder is collapsed, will be so far behind the pubes that great difficulty ■ would be found in inserting stitches accurately. If the AAmund in the bladder be sIsscAATi up, a catheter must be passed every feAV hours to draw off the urine, or lit may Ije tied in and the bladder drained by an india-rubber tube attached to % tthe end of the instrument. Most Surgeons prefer leaving both the AA'oimd in the t 1 bladder and that in the external parts open. If this be done, a drainage-tube 4 lof good size should be passed to the fundus of the bladder, and retained for a I I'veek or ten days. A gum-elastic catheter may at the same time be tied into ^ t.;he urethra, but this is not necessary if the drainage from the wound be effi- -•ient. The best dressing is to smear the external parts Avith iodo-A^aseline ' )intment, and to apply a large sponge squeezed as dry as possible out of a 1 ’ n 40 solution of carbolic acid. This must be changed eA’ery hour. In order to preA'ent the risk of urinary infiltration, the older Surgeons kept •lie bladder empty by making incisions through the periuEeinn into the mem- 'ij ora nous portion of the urethra or nock of the bladder, thus seriously and need- essly complicating the operation. Vidal recommended that the bladder should oe exposed, and the Avoiind left open for a feAV days to granulate, before making : he incision for the removal of the stone, but this would fail in its object, as > dl the adhesions Avould be broken down during the extraction of the calculus. Another cause of danger in the operation is Avounding the peritoneum, ’his may occur Avhen the bladder is so contracted aiid hypertrophied that it ";aimot be sufficiently distended to make it rise above the pubes. If the stone verj- large, the Avound may extend back during extraction of the stone, and ^ hus implicate the ])eritoneum. If the peritoneum be accidentally Avounded it 'oefore the bladder is opened, the operation must be, for the time at least, .1 afiandoned. -i i