S()2 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. nized by its liardness and by its deep infiltration of suiTounding parts. In any case of doubt, a digital examination of the rectum will make its nature evident. From condyloniata the diagnosis is easy ; the soft, flat, mucous, and wart- like character of these growths, their history, and their occurrence at other points, as the perinajura, scrotum, vulva, and buttocks, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish them without any difficulty. 2. The Haemorrlioidal Flux must be distinguished from other intestinal haemorrhages. This may be done by attention to the character of tlie blood, which will enable ns in many cases to determine its source. When it conies from piles it is liquid, of a more or less florid colour ; not unfrequently it is quite bright, staining or coating the ftnees rather than being mixed up with them. When, on the contrary, the Idood is poured out at some higher point in the intestinal canal than the usual scat of hannorrhoids, it is of a dark, sooty character, mixed up with liquid fmces cither in a diffused form or in small black coagula, and no fresh or bright blood will be visible. Digital exploration -^of the rectum in cases of piles, and the presence of symptoms indicating the existence of mischief at a higher part of the intestine than the anus in cases of melEena, wall also serve to point to the seat of the flux. Treatment.—In conducting the treatment of a case of piles, that Surgeon wdll succeed best who looks upon the disease not as a local affection, merely requiring manual interference, but as a-symptom, or rather an effect, of remote visceral obstruction and disease, the removal of which may alone be sufiicient to accomplish the cure, without the necessity of any local interference; or, should it be thought necessary to have recourse to operative procedure, this must be made secondary to the removal of those conditions that have primarily occa- sioned the congestion and dilatation of the haemorrhoidal vessels. The treat- ment of piles, therefore, must be considered, 1, as regards the Eemoval of these Constitutional Conditions or Visceral Obstructions that occasion the disease, together with any Topical Applications that maybe considered necessary; and, 2, wdth reference to the Operative Procedures that may be required for the removal of the affection. 1. The Constitutional Management of piles necessarily varies consider- ably according to the condition of the patient in wdiom they occur, and the visceral obstruction to which they may be referable. Thus, when they occur in debilitated persons, apparently from relaxation of the vessels, most benefit will be derived from a mild tonic and nutritious plan, at the same time that the bowels are kept regular by some of the aperients that will immediately be mentioned. In these cases, also, much advantage is often obtained by the administration of the confection of black pepper, w^hich acts as a useful load stimulant to the vessels of the rectum. A cold w^ater injection after each naotion is very useful in these cases. In the great majority of instances, how- ever, more particularly 'when occurring about the middle period of life, piles are connected wdth a plethoric state of system, and obstruction of the ab- dominal viscera. In these circumstances, our efforts should be directed to the reduction of the plethoric condition, by putting the patient npon a proper regimen, prohibiting the use of stimulants, and lessening the quantity ot animal food that he is in the habit of taking. When piles arise from the pressure of a gravid uterus or other abdominal tumour, little can be done ; except, by local palliatives and mild aperients, to moderate the inconvenience attending them.