mSKAHES OF IILOOD VESSELS. 8o sure exercised upon the sa])heiia and femoral veins by an elongated indolent tumour just below Poupart’s ligament, and over the course of these vessels. This tumour had existed from childhood, and presented the signs that have just been given as characteristic of the disease under consideration. It was removed by an incision parallel to Poupart’s ligament, some careful dissection being required to separate it from the femoral sheath, more particularly towards the inner side, where a prolongation of the tumour dipped down by the side of the femoral vein, compressing that vessel, and thus causing the oedema of the limb. After removal, the tumour was found to consist of a mass of dense adipose tissue, with much vascular structure intermixed, and some small cysts. The oedema gradually subsided ; and when the patient left England, about three months after the operation, the limb had nearly regained its normal size, being but little larger than the sound one, H.ffiMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS OR H.ffiMOPHILIA. In connection with diseases of the blood-vessels it may be stated that in some constitutional conditions it is found, though fortunately very rarely, that there is a great tendency to very troublesome, indeed almost uncontrol- lable bleeding, from slight wounds. An abnormal tendency to bleed is some- times observed in persons who are “ out of condition,” and whose tissues are soft and flaccid. They bleed freely from slight wounds and bruise extensively from tri^flal blows. In these cases the bleeding appears to be maintained by the laxity of fibre preventing the proper contraetion of the divided or torn vessels ; and the tendency to haemorrhage will vary at different times in the same person according as the state of his health improves or deteriorates. In other cases abnormal bleeding may be due to a diminution in the normal coagulability of the blood. This state is sometimes met with in scurvy, chronic jaundice, and albuminuria. The disease known as Hmmophilia or Heemorrhagic Diathesis is quite independent of such conditions as these. It is a peculiar constitutional state always congenital, and most frequently here- ditary, especially in the male line. In some families the males only have been affected, and the diathesis has been transmitted in the second or third genera- tion through females ; who, themselves being unaffected by it, have had male children who were the subjects of the disease. A very remarkable genealogi- cal account of such a family has been drawn up by C. Heath. The diathesis occurs in persons without any other apparent derangement of health, or morbid condition, innate or acquired, to account for it. In such cases the family peculiarity is usually recognized, and well known to those liable to it. The only constant sign of the diathesis is the free and often almost uncon- trollable bleediug that takes place fr'om trivial wounds; life being put in jeopardy and even lost by the hemorrhage resulting from the extraction of a tooth, the opening of an abscess, lancing the gums, or some equally slight unimportant surgical procedure. The blood does not flow in a jet, but continues to trickle in an oozing stream, apparently from the capillaries rather than fr’om the larger vessels of the part. In these cases also there is a great tendency to inordinate ecchymosis from very slight contusion. In these families of bleeders, it is searcely necessary to say that it is imperative to be careful to make no surgical wounds, even of the most tiivial i j I