1129 TUMOVES IJ THE URETHRA. 'Should be practised during the whole of the treatment. After the removal of the sutures, Sims advises that the catheter should be continued, and great care taken that the patient do not move too soon, lest the weak cicatrix be 'Strained. A very simple and successful mode of closing these hstulm has been invented by Bozeman, by what he terms the “ button-suture.” After paring the edges ■of the fistula, and passing silver wires across in the usual way, he draws the parts together by passing both ends of the Avire through an aperture in a steel 'rod, Avhich being carried along them closes the opening. A thin leaden plate, Bozeman’s Apparatus for Button Suture. Fig 947.—Application of Plate. Fig. 948.—Application of split shot. “ the button,” properly perforated doAvn the middle, is then slipped along the wires so as to cover the fistula (Fig. 947) ; and split shot having been pushed along, their free extremities are pressed tightly against the bntton, the wires are then properly nipped, and the apparatus left on for about ten days (Fig. 948); the shot are then cut off, the leaden plate is carefully lifted off, and the suture Avires, haA*ing been straightened out, are Avithdrawn. Whatever kind of suture may be employed, it is ahvays of great importance that the edges of the fistula be brought together tmnsvei'sehj to the long axis of the vagina. Should the abnormal aperture be close to, or even implicate, the ceiwix uteri, this part may be draAvn down and transfixed by the sutm’es, thus adding materially to the support of the posterior lip of the fissure. TUMOURS IN THE URETHRA. Small Pol3rpoid Ttnuonrs are not unfrequently met Avith inside the urethi*al orifice. They have occasionally a gonorrliccal origin, though they commonly arise irrespectively of such disease. They are ahvays very vascular, and are most frequently met Avith in or around the female urethra, Avhere they are of a bright red colour, have a florid hue, bleed fi’ecly Avhen touched, and are com- posed of extremely vascular papilla?; they are commonly conoidal or oval, b)rdering the urethral orifice on one side, or even encircling it. They groAV sloAvly, and seldom attain a larger size than that of a ras]Abcrry. These vascular tumours are far less frequent in the male than in the female urethra. When they occur in men, they usually constitute a small gi'anular florid mass inside the orifice of the canal. When sejited in or around the female urethra, these tumours not unfre{|ucntly give rise to very great aiid continuous irritation ; much pain during and after micturition, radiating through the Avhole pelvic region, attended by an admixture of mucus and a little blood in the urine, and, in fact, many of the