ISFLA^LMATIO^^ OF GUT AFTER REDUCTION 775 ii i I: n 2t'fc uiii’cdiicecl, eventually by emphysematous orackling. 11' the case be left w ithout being relieved, gangrene of the skin will at last take place ; the sac ;iving way, and the fiecal matters being discharged through the softened and lisintegrated tissues. In such circumstances as these—which, however, are 'ery rarely met with at the present day—the patient usually eventually dies •f exhaustion from vomiting. In exceptional cases peritonitis may be set up >y ulceration and perforation of the gut immediately above the seat of tricture, but in the great majority no elfusion of fieculent matter takes place s the portion of bowel immediately within the stricture becomes adherent to be wall of the abdomen and the neighbouring coils of intestine, and thus meal extravasation is prevented. It does not follow that there is always xteriial evidence of the occurrence of gangrene within the sac ; and the bowel s frequently nipped to such an extent as to prevent its regaining its vitality, .vithout any unusual condition being presented until the sac is actually laid 'i>en and the intestine examined. The fluid contained in the hernial sac undergoes changes in appearance and haiiicter, corresponding to those which take place in the strangled gut. In arlier and slighter cases it continues clear and but moderately abundant. Sometimes the quantity increases greatly and rapidly, but more commonly the ;hief alteration that takes place is in its cliarader. It becomes reddish or »rown in colour from transuded blood. Sometimes even pure blood is found n the sac, and I have seen the protruded intestine invested with a layer of roagulum. If gangrene of the gut take place, the fluid becomes turbid, dark, aid ottensive. Suppuration in the sac is very rare. I have only once met with t in a woman, 32 years of age, three months pregnant, who was suffering rum an acutely strangulated femoral hernia of sixty hours’ duration. In that ■ase, the taxis had been freely used. Fluctuation could be felt deeply, there vas diffused doughy infiltration of the groin, and on opening the sac it was bund filled with dark thick pus—about half an oimce ; at the bottom of i’hich lay a small deeply congested but not gangrenous knuckle of intestine, vhich was replaced after the division of a very slight stricture. The patient ecovered. Inflammation of the Gnt after relief of Strangulation occurs in a arge proportion of cases. It has been already pointed out in the chapter on nflammation (Yol. I., p. 1G2) that the arrest of circulation through a part of he living body produces diflerent effects according to the length of time that t is kept up. If the arrest is complete and of sufficient duration, gangrene cts in, such blood as the vessels contain coagulates, and on relief of the '.tningulation the blood is unable to enter the dead tissues. If the arrest of he circulation has been maintained for a length of time sufficient to lower the /itality of the part considerably but not to kill it, on the relief of strangula- ion all tlie phenomena of inflammation manifest themselves. The vessels Kjcome engorged with blood, abundant exudation takes place causing great iwellirig by which the feeble circulation may be again arrested and gangrene nay set in. In other cases the inflammation may fall short of this, but may, in lie ea.se of the intestine, be sufficient to suspend the functions of the affected >art so that although the strangulation is relieved, the obstruction to the passiige of fmces remains for some days, or even till death results. If the iirest of circulation has licen le.ss complete or of shorter duration, the relief of drangulation is followed by temporary hypermmia, which soon subsides. It