TETA NUS—TREA TMENT. 39 physiologically the most attention; for as it is nearly if not quite antagonistic to the tetanic spasms of stryclinia, it was hoped that it would be found equally useful as a sedative to the spinal cord in those arising from traumatic causes. In E. Watson’s hands, very successful results followed its administra- tion. Yet it is far from being a specific. I have tried it in several cases, with no appreciable good effect. It may be given by the mouth, hypodermically, or per aman: in the form of a solution or a tincture of the extract in half- grain doses, by the mouth ; hypodermically, in doses of one-sixth of a grain ; per anum, in grain-doses. The dose should be given at least every second hour, until complete contraction of the pupil occurs. Stimulants, as brandy, should at the same time be given to counteract the depression that will result from the use of the drug. At the same time that reconrse is had to such measures as these, it must not be forgotten that the disease is one of great exhaustion, and that the patient will die worn out, unless he be supplied with plenty of nourislunent. Beef-tea and wine should, therefore, be administered by the mouth, as long as the patient can swallow, and nutritious enemata by the rectum ; and in this Avay the powers of life may be supported until the violence of the disease expends itself. I am, however, disposed to think that even in these chronic cases, much more may be done by simple than by specific treatment. Clearing out the bowels by a turpentine enema, breaking the violence of the spasms and gi\dng the patient rest and ease by chloroform inhalations or by chloral enemata, and keeping up the powers of the system by injections of beef-tea, egg, and brandy into the rectum, till the disease wears itself out, appear most likely to be followed by a satisfactory result, when used in addition to the hygienic measures recommended in the acute form of the disease. It is certainly more rational to employ such measures as these, than in the vain hope of finding a specific for tetanus, to be constantly recurring to antispasmodics and sedatives, which repeated experience has proved to be useless as curative agents.