828 SPECIAL HERNJjE. by Griinberg, the patient died on the twentieth day of perforation of the intestine. In 1884 K. J. Godlee operated on a case in University College Hospital by an incision in the middle line of the abdomen. The hernia was reduced without difficulty, but the patient, who was extremely collapsed at the time, died about twenty-four hours after the operation. Considering the results which have followed the operation for obturator hernia, I think that when, in addition to the ordinary signs of strangulation, there are also present the altered contour of the limb (perhaps even distinct local swelling) and the pain which have been above described, these symptoms not only justify, but demand, that an exploratory incision be made through the structures overlying the obturator foramen so as to examine it. If a hernia be found there, it must be dealt with by the general rules already laid down, according to the state of the intestine. The stricture must be divided directly downwards as the artery is most commonly above the sac. Besides the obturator, various other pelvic hernim may take place, as into the perinaeum, the vagina, or through the sciatic notch. These various forms of rupture are of extreme rarity, and present many difficulties in their diagnosis. Perineal Hernia commonly occurs in the middle line, between the rectum and the bladder in men, or the rectum and vagina in women; but sometimes the protrusion has been known to take place by the side of the anus. Of these various fonns of rupture, many instances have been collected by Lawrence from different writers. The Treatment of such a hernia would consist ill supporting the protrusion by means of a pad and bandage ; as the mouth of the sac is very large, strangulation is not probable. Vaginal Hernia has occasionally been met -with ; the tumour protruding through the posterior or upper wall of the vagina, and presenting the ordinary characters of this disease, such as impulse on coughing and reducibility. It must be kept up by means of a pessary. Pudendal Hernia has been described by Sir A. Cooper as very closely resembling vaginal rupture. The situation of the tumour may cause it to be mistaken for an inguinal hernia ; but from this it may be recognized by the upper part of the labium and the ring being completely free, whilst a tumour presenting the ordinary characters of a rupture is situated in the lower part of the labium, and forms a prominence along the side of the vagina. Sciatic Hernia.—This rare form of hernia has been described by Sir A. Cooper as passing through the sciatic notch, where it lies between the lower border of the pyriform muscle and the spine of the ischimn. It lies in close relation with the sciatic nerve, and with the internal iliac vessels. In the case related by Cooper, the obturator artery passed above, and the vein below the neck of the sac. From the depth at which such a hernia would be seated, and its small size, it would probably escape obseiwation during life ; but, if detected, it might readily be retained by means of proper bandages and a pad. Should operation ever be required, the deep incisions must be carefully con- ducted, on account of the great importance of the parts surrounding the sac. diaphragmatic hernia. Congenital defect of the Diaphragm is occasionally met with.* It has * a most complete and interesting account of Congenital Diaphragmatic Henna was xmblished by Ur* Thomas Balfour in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for Ajiril, 1S09.