DISEASIiJS OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. J170 sensations will be perceived by the patient except in a very advanced sta^e of the disease. As the disease advances, one of the craggy nodules softens, and the skin becomes adherent over it. This process is accompanied by more acute inflammation, usually causing marked increase of pain and tenderness. The adherent skin becomes red and shining, and finally gives way, and the tuberculous abscess discharges, leaving an unhealthy cavity yielding thin pus mixed with soft, shreddy, whitish-yellow sloughs. In some favourable cases the cavity may granulate and close completely, or leave merely a fistulous opening discharging small quantities of serous fluid. In most cases, how- ever, the process of softening extends, other nodules break down, and a great part of the testicle may be destroyed. If an abscess should form in the body of the gland, a hernia or fungus testis may follow, as in simple chronic orchitis. Occasionally exuberant gi’anulations may sprout out from the region of the epididymis, closely resembling the true fungus testis. The general health suifers greatly, and at a comparatively early stage of the case tubercular disease of the lungs is almost certain to make its appearance. In the great majority of cases, the opposite testicle also becomes affected. Death usually results from the disease of the lungs, but may occur from acute general tuberculosis with tubercular meningitis. Occasionally the disease may extend to the urinary tract, and terminate fatally from tubercular disease of the kidneys. In some cases of phthisis, in which the testicles enlarge, and yet give but little trouble, the whole organ, both body and epididymis, may be found converted into a uniform soft cheesy mass. A specimen of two such testicles, from a patient who died from disease of the lungs, is in the Museum of University College. In cases of acute general tuberculosis, grey granulations have been found in the testicles. Structure.—On making a section fi'om before backwards through a typical specimen of tubercular disease of the testicle, the following conditions will be found. The tunica vaginalis may be perfectly healthy, or may be here and there adherent to the tunica albuginea. The tunica albuginea will be normal in appearance, except in the immediate neighbourhood of a tubercular gi’owth, Avhere it will be thickened. That part of the body of the gland nearest the surface may be perfectly healthy in appearance ; there is no thickening of the septa, and the tubules can be teased out under water as in a healthy testicle. As we approach the corpus Highmorianum, the gland becomes studded with small hard nodules, not growing in the septa, but in the glandular substance of the testis. In their earliest stage these are merely hard semi-transparent granulations ; but they soon show signs of undergoing fatty degeneration in the centre, so that the majority have the appearance of small bodies about the size of a millet-seed, having a yellow opaque centre, and a delicate greyish semi-transparent growing margin. Still nearer the corpus Highmorianum these yellow spots coalesce, and form a solid cheesy substance, continuous with a still larger mass of the same kind, which represents the epididymis, and half surrounds the body of the gland in the shape of a crescent. In this larger mass patches of softening are found forming the tubercular abscesses above described, and these may extend into the body of the gland. On making transverse sections of the vas deferens, its walls will 1x3 seen to be thickened, and its centre filled up with a yellow cheesy material. Jf the disease be further advanced, the whole gland may be converted into*