iio6 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. project, the stricture is divided or notched downwards by firm and steady pressure to tlie extent nsnally of about an inch. The blade is then shut into its sheath, and the instrument is withdrawn. As this instrument does not steady the urethra, the penis must be pulled forward so as to put it on the stretch before the division is attempted, and this should be done by a steady pressure or a sawing motion rather than by a sudden eflfort. After the operation of internal urethrotomy, a full-sized instrument should be immediately passed, but it is not usually necessary to tie it in. It should, Fig. 934.—Civiale’s Urethrotome. however, be passed daily for a few days, and after that every second or third day for three or four weeks. After that, the patient should be taught to pass it for himself, and continue to do so occasionally for the rest of his life. The operation of internal urethrotomy is, of course, required only in excep- tional cases. These are chiefly resilient or very irritable, and some very ■ tough strictures. In resilient strictures, dilatation fails because the stricture, though admitting of expansion, immediately relapses. In very irritable strictures, the patient cannot bear the pain of dilatation. In some very tough strictures, simple dilatation fails, and then internal m-ethrotomy or forcible dilatation is required. In all these cases, the division of the stricture from within removes at once all difficulty in treatment ; and I have of late years employed this very simple method in several cases of this kind with the most marked and permanent success. In fact, in strictures of the scrotal or penile portions of the urethra, where one or other of the above conditions—resiliency or irritability—generally prevails, I now very commonly notch the constricted portion of the canal by means of Civiale’s urethrotome, and thus at once, and with great ease, obtain most, if not all, the space required. Result.—The risk attending the operation is not great, and diminishes as the stricture approaches the oriflce of the urethi’a. It is not, however, abso- lutely free from danger. The accidents that may happen are, perineal abscess, . extravasation of urine, hgemorrhage, and orchitis ; and in some rare cases it may be followed by pyaemia. If tlie kidneys be diseased, it may, like any other operation for stricture, give rise to fatal acute interstitial nephritis. Perineal . abscess usually results from cutting too deeply, so that the knife completely / divides the corpus spongiosum. Such abscesses most frequently form beneath V the accelerator urinm, and burrow forwards, directed by the expansion of that ^ muscle to the root of the penis. They contain a mixture of urine and pus, ; but it is rare to find general extravasation into the scrotum. Hmmorrhage also results from cutting too freely. In rare cases, after the operation, a per- manently bent condition of the penis remains during erection. We possess as yet but few trustworthy statistics of the results of internal urethrotomy, and there is every reason to believe that untoward consequences follow this o|>era- tion more frequently than some of its advocates are willing to admit. Statis- tics of this operation done in private are worthless ; those of cases occurring in Hospital practice scarcely exist. In University College Hospital, where the operation has been extensively practised, I find from the Reports of the Sur-