TREATMENT OF TALIPES VARUS. 527 proper plan of treatment, \vlien such an accident occiii’S, is, when the artery is merely punctured, to cut it completely across, and then to a])ply firm pressure, by means of a pad and bandage over tlie bleeding orifice, d'amplin states that he has seen no ill effects follow this accident. If a circumscril)ed false aneurism form, it must be laid open, the clots turned out, and the vessel tied. No ex- tension of the foot should bo practised for some time in such cases, lest the coagulum be disturbed. The tibialis anticus must be divided at the point marked in Fig. Gdo. The tenotome must be passed from the outer side to avoid any risk of Avounding the doisal artery of the foot. In ordinary cases of varus, after a lapse of four or five days, Scarpa’s or rattle’s shoe, or Aveling’s talivert (Fig. G4G), a most ingenious and useful in- strument, allowing every movement necessary in club-foot, may be applied ; or the foot may be well abducted by means of a Avooden splint, fixed to the outer side of the leg, and provided AA'ith pegs, so placed that the toes can be drawn up, and the foot Avell turned out, by rollers and tapes attached to them. In some cases the foot may advantageously be put up in plaster of Paris. In order to do this, it is first bandaged with a narroAv flannel roller. The assistant then grasps the leg firmly above the ankle, while he holds the foot in as nearly as possible the normal position by a narrow loop of bandage passed round the ball of the great toe, and held to the outer side. The plaster is then applied, and the foot held in position till it has set. The bandage should lx; changed about e\'ery two Aveeks, the foot being each time draAvn a little more into its proper position. In spite of all treatment howeA'er, a considerable proportion of cases of con- genital talipes equino-varus, are at most only partially relieved. In such cases, as the child groAvs up the muscles fail to dcA'elop, and the bones become altered in form so as to adapt them to their abnormal position. In such extreme and incurable cases, various operations have been recommended to enable the patient to bring the sole of his foot to the ground. Many years ago liittle suggested the remoA'al of the cuboid in order to assist in OA'crcoining the adduction of the anterior part of the foot. This operation Avas performed Avith success by Solly in 1857, but did not come into general use. In J<S72 liUiul of itanchester removed the astragalus from each foot of a child, with the result of obtaining considerable improATineut in the position of the feet. In 1H7G, IF IJavy repeated the operation in several cases, obtaining good