648 DISEASES OF THE MOV Til AND THROAT. of the operation, and so long as the mouth is thoroughly gagged even this need cause no anxiety. If only a part of the tongue is being removed, liiemor- rhage may bo immediately arrested by drawing the tip well out of the mouth by the ligature through it and compressing the lingual against the jaw by the method already described. The pharynx must then Ije thoroughly cleaned with sponges on sponge-holders. AVhen this is done the assistant relaxes his linger, and the bleeding point can usually be seized without difficulty in a pair of forcipressure forceps. If the whole tongue have been removed, the stump must be hooked forward w'ith the fore-finger and seized in a pair of vulselluni forceps while the artery is compressed as before described. In tying the lingual artery, as the tissues are brittle, it is better to include some of the surrounding structure. The ligature may then be cut short. The most serious accident is when the gag slips while free haemorrhage is going on. lu a case of this kind I had to perform laryngotomy, as a coagulum formed in the pharynx before the vessel could be secured. The patient made a good recovery, dying two years after the operation from the recurrence of the disease in the lung and in one of the toes. Oozing of blood may usually be arrested by ice, or if it be more than usually free the bleeding point may be touched with Paquelin’s cautery or perchloride of iron, but this should be avoided if possible, as it interferes with the healing of the wound. If very free haemorrhage is expected it may be advisable in some cases to perform a preliminary tracheotomy and to introduce Trendelenburg’s obtui’ator or to plug the pharynx with a sponge. After-Treatment.—The chief trouble in the after-treatment is to keep the mouth free from decomposing discharges. Various means have been tried for this, chlorinated gargles, sanitas, terebene, Condy’s fluid, &c., but nothing approaches iodoform in efficiency. It should be applied in the form of crystals (not precipitated) immediately after the. operation. Subsequently a small quantity may be sprinkled over the raw surface daily by means of a camel’s-hair pencil. The mouth may be washed at intervals after the first thu’ty-six hours with a weak solution of permanganate of potash. Ice may be sucked at intervals for the first few days, if it be found grateful to the patient. A tendency to dyspnoea is sometimes manifested after the operation, owing to the stump of the tongue falling backwards. This is remedied by opening the mouth and drawing the stump forwards. If it ocem’s frequently a thread must be passed through the stump and retained for a few days. If only a part of the tongue have been removed the patient will be able to swallow fairly well after the first few hours, but if the whole organ have been taken away he must be fed by enemata, or through an india-rubber tube passed down the oesophagus, for the first three or four days. There is often trouble from profuse salivation for two or three weeks, owing to the patient being unable to swallow the viscid saliva excreted from the wounded and inltated glands. This is best controlled by alum and pyrethrum gargles. Accidents after the Operation.—Secondary hcemorrhage may occur about the fifth or sixth day, especially after the galvanic cautery. The free use of ice or a spray douche of ice-cold water may arrest it if it be slight. If free and arterial, perchloride of iron or the actual cautery may be required. If this fail the lingual may be ligatured above the hyoid bone unless that has been already done as a preliminary step to the oi3eration. SepUc fever, septic I i