DISEASE OF THE GREAT TROCHANTER. 469 left is more or less completely ankylosed at the hip, wasted, shortened to the extent of two to four inches, partially flexed upon the pelvis, adducted, with the knee possibly stiffened, seiniflexed and advanced : the patient is just able to put the toes to the ground, without the power of bearing upon or rotating the limb, but, when he wishes to turn, twisting the whole pelvis by the aid of the greatly increased mobility of the lumbar spine. After successful excision, the result is much more satisfactory, as may be seen in Fig. 589. The principal abnormal appearance in the limb is its shorten- ing, to the extent usually of from two to three inches—to the extent, indeed, to which the pre-existing disorganization and dislocation of the head of the bone had previously reduced it. It is well-nourished, straight, firm, and admits of easy and rapid progres- sion. The ankylosis is fibrous, not osseous. The patient is thus enabled to flex the thigh on the pelvis, and to adduct it; but, just as in cases that have under- gone a natural cure, the power of external rotation and of abduction is lost, the mobility of the lumbar spine compensating for the loss of these movements. Disease of the Great Trochanter occasionally occurs with abscess in the upper and outer part of the thigh, at first sight closely resembling hip- disease ; but a little careful examination Avith the probe and by manipulation of the hmb, will soon convince the Surgeon that the joint is free fi-om disease, and that the morbid process is limited to the trochanter, and possibly the root of the neck of the thigh-bone. Disease of the trochanter is more common in children, but is occasionally met with in adults. The most common pathological condition met with is necrosis either central or superficial. In children this may be the result of injuiy or of acute idiopathic osteomyelitis of the epi- physis of the trochanter. Tubercular caries sometimes occurs also in this epiphysis just as in that of the head of the bone. In these cases the limb should be made bloodless, and the trochanter freely exposed by a curved in- cision (Fig. 593). 8equestra may then be removed, or the diseased osseous structures gouged away. In such operations I have not only successfully removed the gi’eater part of the trochanter, but have scooped out even a portion of the interior of the carious neck of the thigh-bone at its trochan- teric end ; thus preventing the inevitable disorganization of the hip-joint Avhich would have resulted if the diseased bone had been allowed to remain in close proximity to the articulation. In this operation the Surgeon necessarily comes into very close proximity with the capsule of the joint; and unless Fig. 593.—Incision exposing the Great Trochanter for the removal of diseased hone. Esmarch’s bandage applied to render the operation bloodless.