TEA UMA TIG EAR A L YSIS—NEUROMA. 29 observed, in the fflcifil nerve, or in the niusculo-spiral and occasionally in other nerves. Dachenne has collected over 100 cases of sudden paralysis of the latter nerve occurring after exposure to cold, usually from sleeping with the arms exposed to a draught. The symptoms ot paralysis of the musculo-spiral have already been described (p. 570, Vol. I.). Duchenne states that in paralvsis from exposure to cold the whole of the parts supplied by the nerve in the "forearm are paralysed, whereas in wrist-drop from lead-palsy the supinator longns escapes. In paralysis occurring in this sudden way from cold the electrical irritability of the muscles remains normal, the facial nerve alone forming an exception to this rule. This is explained by supposing that this nerve is exposed to more severe pressure when it swells in consequence of its course being through a long canal. It is important to distinguish these forms of paralysis fr-om that arising from other causes—more particularly from the traumatic forms. This may usually be done by attending to the preliminary history of neuritis in the first form, in which there is also frequently a co-existent or antecedent rheumatic affection of the joints or muscles, and in the second form by the maintenance of the normal irritability of the muscles, remembering, however, that facial paralysis from cold forms an exception to the rule. The Treatment in the early stages is that of neuritis, fr’ee counter-irritation and rest, -with the administration of salicylic acid if there are any general signs of rheumatism. When paralysis is clearly developed, faradization must be employed to prevent wasting of the muscles. By these means a cure is always effected, although the recovery is often very slow. NEUKOMA. By N'euroma is meant a tumour connected with a nerve. The common neuroma is a fibroma springing from the neurilemma. (See also, p. 983, Yol. I.) It is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, and as a rule the fibres of the nerve are stretched over it or pass along one side seldom being involved in the mass. This tumour may vary from the size of a millet-seed to that of a melon; it is usually solid, but when it attains a large bulk, a cavity may form in it, contain- ing a yellowish or brownish serous-looking fluid, apparently owing to the dis- integration of the central portions of the mass. In shape it is usually oval or oblong, the long axis corresponding to the course of the nerve (Fig. 421); it grows slowly, and is movable transversely, but not in the direction of the nervous trunk on which it is seated; it has no appearance of malignancy, and, however large it becomes, it never contracts adhesions to the integument nor in- volves its structure. Neuroma commonly affects only the nerves of the cerebro- spinal system ; but B^rard has met with one case of the disease on a ganglionic nerve. The nerves of special sense are but very rarely the seat of this disease. Indeed, the only recorded case with which I am acquainted of a neuroma con- nected with one of these nerves, is one described by Lidell of New York, of a neuroma of the optic nerve filling up the orbit, flattening and protrading the eye, and extirjoated together with the contents of the orbit by that Surgeon. ^Tost commonly the tumour is single, and is usually painless. As it in- creases in size it may become the seat of severe lancinating or neuralgic pain, which extends, however, only to the parts below the tumour, and is commonly