DISEASES OF ARTERIES. 94 When this process has reached its hi^diest stage, if the artery l>e removed fi-om the body and drawn tlirongh the fingers, a small rigid tube, composed of the calcified middle coat still lined by the inner coat, can be sc|ucezed out, leaving the external coat apparently healthy. In fact, the toughness of the external coat is so little impaired that such vessels can be tied, and even twisted, almost as safely as a healthy artery. Annular and tubular calcifica- tion are almost invariably associated with chronic endarteritis, and its secon- dary degenerations in the larger vessels, and in the intermediate arteries, such as the axillary or popliteal, and sometimes even as low as the tibials, lx)th conditions are observed side by side. The existence of this degenerative change is usually recognized without difficulty during life in any artery that can be examined with the finger. The vessel feels hard and less compressible than natural. Its longitudinal elasticity is lessened, so that it is thrown into a Avavy line when relaxed longitudinally by flexion of the limb. The morbid condition consists essentially of a deposit of lime-salts in the muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat. We thus only meet with it in those vessels in which the muscular tissue is well developed. In the larger arteries the muscular cells are so scanty and so far concealed by the elastic tissue that if this change does occur in them it is difficult to recognize. The inner coat in the larger vessels usually shows the ordinary signs of chronic endarteritis. In the smaller it may at first be healthy, but later on calcareous plates may form in it. It has been pointed out by Bizot that the symmetry of the arrangement of these morbid appearances in the corresponding vessels on opposite sides of the body is remarkably great, the arteries of one limb being often the exact counterpart in this respect to those of the other. The causes of calcification of the muscular fibres, cells of the middle coat, are unknown beyond that it is always a senile change. The effects of annular calcification are to render the vessel a rigid tube no