i8o SPEC I A L A NE UlUSATS. Spontaneous cure in carotid aneurism lias never yet, I lielieve, been met with.' The Sur<>-eon, therefore, must endeavour to treat the disease by li<,mture. Two plans of treatment are open to him—to tie either the innominate artery, or the carotid on the distal side of the tumour, ddie first alternativei may fairly be set aside ; for not only are the cases in which it is possible toi find room between the sternum and the sac extremely rare, but, even werejif^j such an instance to present itself, few Sur<i;eon8 would, I think, be justifiedi ■ in undertaking’ an operation which has only once succeeded, even (p. rj;j)i in the most skilful hands ; we are consequently reduced to the alternative of^ ligaturing the artery on the distal side of the sac. But although this.! operation is the only alternative that presents itself, yet its application inj| practice is attended by serious difficulties and perplexities ; for the Surgeonj must be able to satisfy himself that it is actually an aneurism of the root oq the carotid with which he has to do, and that it is not the trunk of th innominate or the arch of the aorta that is affected. The difficulty in doin this is far greater than would at first appear ; for, on examining the details o eight cases in which the distal operation has been perfonned for suppose carotid aneurism, three must be excluded ; as, after death, the tumour wa found to arise from the aortic arch. In the annexed table Avill be found th result of seven cases, in which the carotid artery has been tied for aneurism o its root on the distal side of the sac. I have excluded an eighth case, as then is reason to believe that in it the artery was not ligatured, but a portion of th sheath accidentally tied instead—an accident, by the way, which Sedillot h ■witnessed, which Norris states also to have occun’ed at the New York Hospital and which I have known happen to a most excellent Surgeon in the case o: ligature of the femoral artery. ANEURISMS OF ROOT OF CAROTID TREATED BY LIGATURE ON DISTAL SIDE) 51 I' : OPERATOR. SEX, AGE. RESULT. CAUSE OF DEATH. REMARKS. 1. Waedrop. 1826. f. 63 Recovered. • • • • • f Tumour diminished until fifth day : then inflamed, suppu- { rated, and burst. The patient | recovered, and was alive three years after operation. 2, Lambert. 1827. f. 49 Successful so far as aneurism was concerned. Haemorrhage from upper portion of artery. Tumour diminished after opera- tion, and became consolidated ; i sac filled with firm coagulum,.j< and lower part of artery closed; 1 ulceration into artery, just { above part ligatured ; vessel dilated where ligatured. 3. Bush. 1827. f. 36 Recovered. Suffocation was imminent before operation ; tumour rapidly diminishedafterligature. Alive I three weeks aftei-wards. I 4. Mont- gomery. 1828. m. 30 Died. Sac suppu- rated. Aneurism of arch also. Left I carotid tied. 1 .6. Colton DE Noyou. 1840. 6. Wood, J. II. 1840. f. 63 Recovered. Recovered. ... ... Tumour and pulsation dimin- I ished. Alive and well three I yeai-s afterwards. I Aneurism cured. I 7. Demme. m. 38 Died. Sup])uration of sac : haemorrhage. Aneurism of .arch : double ancu- H rism of carotid. 0 CO m 1 m. 36 Died. 68th day. Inflammation of lungs. Tumour filled with layers of 1 coagulum. Ulcerated opening 1 communicating with aj)OX of 1 left lung. Left carotid ticfl. ■