DURATION OF COMPRESSION—TREATMENT. I I i', i V )! 5 t I i r F 4 I I ♦ I4I harden, the anastomosing vessels enlarge, with a good deal of hnrning pain in the limb generally, and arterial pulsations in situations where nsnally none are felt. The abnormal pulsation, in these cases, is always found to occur in much the same situations, the same vessels appearing to undergo dilatation. Ihus Tufnell has made a remark, which I have had more than one opportunity of veritS’ing, that, in the treatment of popliteal aneurism by compression, three arteries will be found to be enlarged, one of which passes over the centre of the tumour, another over the head of the fibula, and the third along the inner edge of the patella ; he states also that the severe burning pain which is felt in these cases is owing to the artery accompanying the communicans peronei nerve beino- enlarged. After complete solidification of the tumour has taken place, the compression ought to be continued for at least forty-eight hours, so as to secure against the occuiTence of a relapse. The Duration of the Treatment varies very greatly. In some cases, as above stated, the tumour has become solidified in a few hours or in two or three days. In other instances, the treatment has required to be protracted for more than three months before a cure has resulted. Of 26 cases of femoral or popliteal aneurism cured by compression in the London hospitals, the average time, according to Hutchinson, was nineteen days. Harwell has collected from American, British, and Continental journals aU the recorded cases of popliteal aneurism cured by compression in the ten years 1870 to 1879 inclusive, and he gives the following statistics of the duration of the treatment. For instrumental compression the longest period was 7 weeks, the shortest 24 hours, the mean of 19 cases in which the time was recorded, 12 days ; for digital compression, the longest period was 21 days, the shortest 4-^ hom’s, and the mean of 13 cases 5j days ; for combined instrumental and digital com- pression the longest period was six months, the shortest 44 hours, and the mean of 12 cases 44^ days. jMuch, of course, will depend, in this respect, on the constitution of the patient, and on the condition of the tumour; those cheum- stances which are most favourable to the spontaneous cure of the aneurism will also influence the rapidity of the cure by compression. There are, un- doubtedly, certain conditions of the blood in which it is little disposed to coagulate, and in these cases the duration of the treatment wiU necessarily be prolonged. So also, when the aneurism is tubular, we must expect that the blood which passes fi-eely through it in the direct current of the circulation will be slower in undergoing those changes that lead to its consolidation than when the disease is sacculated, and thus contains a residuum of blood that is not so directly influenced by the cun’ent through the sac. In the early days of the compression-treatment there was an indisposition on the part of Surgeons to apply it very effectually and firmly, and a longer time was expended over it than is now generally the case ; and the example set by ^lurray, with regard to abdominal aneurism, has been followed with success in respect to the femoral, popliteal, and other forms of the disease, the compressor being screwed down tight on the artery so as completely to arrest for the time all circulation through the sac, the patient kept under chloroform, and the cure effected in a few hours. Applicability.—Of the great value of conqircssion in the treatment of aneurism, there can be no doubt; more esixjcially when the tumour is situated in the arteries of the lower extremity below the middle of the thigh. In aneurism occurring in the vicinity of the trunk, as in the iliac, the carotid