242 SPECIAL ANEUIUSMS. metliods ; viz., compression in the ^roin, and lif>-ature of the external iliac, or of tlie common femoral. If the common femoral ever should he ligatured for aneurism, this appears to me to be the case best suited for it. But the choice between the ligature of this artery or of the external iliac must in a great measure depend upon the Surgeon’s judgment as to the relative expediency of either operation, and on the height to which the aneurism extends up the groin. But neither artery should be ligatured until compression has been fairly tried and has failed. This may be done digitally or by Carte’s instru- ment, where the artery passes over the brim of the pelvis. It is especially likely to succeed in aneurism of the profunda, owing to the shortness of the trunk and the way in which it breaks up into many anastomosing branches. Hence there is not a free current of blood passing from one large vessel of entry to another of exit, but, as it is broken up and has to filter out through a number of minor vessels, its coagulation may readily be brought about. In the case treated by me, compression effected a cure in twenty-four hours, though the aneurism was very large and active. Aneuris^is op the Superficial Femoral axd Popliteal Arteries.— These occur commonly about the middle period of life, and are almost inrari- ably met with in males, being at least twenty times more frequent in them than in women. Both sides are affected with equal frequency, and occasionally at the same time. According to Crisp, sailors would appear to be more liable to this variety of the disease than any other class. These aneurisms are most fi’equently sacculated ; in the ham they are always so, but in the thigh they are sometimes tubular. Symptoms.—The symptoms of Femoral Aneurism present nothing pecu- liar ; the tumour usually enlarging with considerable rapidity, with all the characteristic signs of the disease, and assuming a pretty regular ovoid shape. Popliteal Aneurism usually commences with stiffness and a good deal of pain about the ham and knee, which I have more than once seen mistaken for rheumatism ; in fact, so commonly does this happen that the Surgeon should never fail to pass his hand behind and examine the ham in every case of persistent “ rheumatic ” pain in the knee. There is also a difficulty iu straight- ening the limb, which is generally kept semi-flexed. The tumom* increases usually with great rapidity, and has a great tendency to become diffused ; these conditions will, however, materially depend on the side of the artery from which it springs. When it arises from the anterior aspect, next the bone, it increases slowly, being compressed by the firm structures before it. In this case, however, there is the great danger that, by its pressure upon the bones and knee, it may give rise to caries and destruction of the joint. When it springs fi-om the posterior part of the artery, wh.ere it is uncompressed, it in- creases rapidly, and may speedily become diffuse. The diffusion of an aneurism in this situation may take place in two directions. If it be femoro-popliteal, it may give way into the general areolar tissue of the thigh, the blood diffusing itself as high perhaps as Scarpa’s triangle. When it is confined to the ham, it may give way either under the integuments, and into the superficial structui’cs of the limb, or else under the deep fascia of the leg, where it will compress the posterior tibial nerve and artery. In all cases, the diffusion of popliteal aneurism is likely to be followed by gangrene. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of popliteal aneurism has to be made from chronic abscess, from bursal enlargements, and from solid tumours. In dis- fi