599 EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. drawn somewhat outwards, while the cheek flap is pulled upwards so as to bring the coronoid process into view with the attachment of the temporal muscle, which must be divided. If, as sometimes happens, this cannot be easily reached, the coronoid process may be cut through AWth a saw and removed afterwards. As soon as the bone is freed from the temporal muscle it may be draAvn more outwards and its inner side cleared from the internal pterygoid, care being taken to keep the edge of the knife turned towards the bone to avoid the submaxillary gland and the lingual neiwe. Lastly, by forcibly depressing the bone the condyle is dislocated ; the external pterygoid Fig. 680.—Excision of Lower Jaw. Disarticulation of Condyle. is divided by a touch of the knife, and bone then comes away (Fig. 686). During this stage of the operation care must be taken not to divide the internal maxillary artery, which lies close to the neck of the bone between it and the internal lateral ligament. If the bone be twisted too much outwards the condyle will pass under the artery, which is then torn through or cut. Should the artery be divided, it must be ligatured, or if it be cut A’ery close to the main trunk it may be necessary to tie that immediately below the point at which it di\’ides into the temporal and internal maxillary. In depressing the bone to reach the temporal muscle aud the joint, care must be taken not to use too much force, lest it happen that the ramus giA’^e Avay, having been weakened by the disease ; this accident causes a good deal of difficulty in disarticulation, Avhich can be accomplished, only by seizing the fragment left behind in necrosis-forceps, thus dragging it foi’Avards and then diAuding the muscle and capsule. When the operation is completed, the raAV surface should l)c touched with a solution of chloride of zinc and sprinkled with iodoform. The flap is then brought doAvn and secured Avith sutures, a drainage-tul)c being inserted at the lower and posterior angle of the Avouiid. If the symphysis haA*e