DISEASE.^ OF TJIE TESTIE ANM CORD. 1176 Diagnosis.—This attection has been carefully studied by Sir A. Cooper ; ■^vho, with great justice, adverts to the difficulty of distinguishing it from other diseases of this organ, more especially from hydrocele. The points to be especially attended to in distinguishing the cystic sarcocele, are its want of translncency, the more globular shape of the organ, its weight, and the enlarged and varicose state of the veins of the cord. If there be any doubt, an explora- tory puncture will resolve this, and should always be practised. Treatment.—Cystic sarcocele requires early removal of the diseased organ. Sarcoma of the Testicle.—Pure sarcoma of the testicle without the pre- sence of the cysts just described is of rare occurrence. It is indistinguishable from cancer before removal, presenting the same rapid growth, and soilness of structure, giving rise to a smooth elastic globular or oval enlargement of the testicle. It is usually met with in younger subjects than cancer, sometimes even in young children. Its microscopic structure varies in different cases. Small round-celled sarcoma, and myxo-sarcoma with large spindle-cells intermixed with it, have been described. The Treatment consists in early removal of the gland by castration. 'Enchondroma of the Testicle.—Cartilage, as before stated, is almost always present in the cystic sarcoma of the testis. It may, however, appear alone, in larger or smaller nodules, or infiltrating the gland. It usually commences in the body, but may invade the epididymis. According to Cornil and Ranvier, whenever it reaches any considerable size it is no longer 2)urely cartilaginous, but is mixed with sarcoma-tissue and complicated with cysts, so that both clinically and j)athologically it merges into the disease just described as cystic sarcoma. Cysts containing' Coloured Matters.—Occasionally, cystic tumours of the testicle are met with, in which the substance of the organ is atrophied or absorbed, and its place occupied by one or more large thin-AvaUed sacculi oon- taining fluids of different colours and consistence, dark and fatty. One of the most remarkable of these anomalous tumours of the testis that I haA'e seen was nnder the care of my colleague Marshall, at the hospital. The diseased organ, Avffiich Avas about the size of an ostrich’s egg, and felt partly solid and jAartly fluid, was found after removal to be composed of a large cyst filled Avith an oily fluid, like melted butter, which solidified on cooling. After remoA'al Marshall found that the sac contained some foetal deh'is, and was doubtless of an embryonic character. The patient, AA’ho was about thirty years of age, had been affected Avith the tumour from early infancy. Cancer of the Testicle, or Malignant Sarcocele, not unfrequently occurs, and almost invariably assumes the encejAhaloid character. It is indeed a question whether any other form of cancer ever occurs in the testicle. Characters.—Cancer of the testicle most commonly occurs in the fimt instance in the body of that organ, rarely, if e\'er, affecting the eindidymis primarily. The ordinary characters of encephaloid are alAA'ays AA'ell marked in this affec- tion ; and the tumour eventually finigatcs, oecomes softened doAvn, and ]mlpy. The mass on section is soft, pink in colour, AAdth large yellow patches of fatty degeneration scattered through it. Its substance is often broken doAvn in parts by haemorrhage. It is inq)Ossible to distinguish it from a soft sarcoma Avithout microscopic examination. The microscopic structure is that ot