556 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. covered with noii-ciliated columnar epithelium. Sections of the f^rowth under the microscope closely resembled those of papillary f>;ro\vths from the rectum. The effect produced hy the «Towth on the surroundin*^ parts seemed merely the result of pressure and not of infiltration, consequently the j^rowth may l>e regarded rather as a papilloma than a columnar epithelioma. T}[e Frontal Sinuses, though rarely, are occasionally the seat of disease. Abscess may form here, with much pain and expansion, and possilily caries of their anterior wall, attended by the local signs of inflammation and by danger of concomitant inflammation of the membranes of the brain. In such circum- stances it may be proper for the Surgeon to remove by a small trephine the anterior wall of the sinus, and thus give exit to the retained pus. In other instances, again, the anterior wall of the sinus may be necrosed and perforated, the aperture being felt under a puffy tumour of the scalp. Here also the trephine is required. Distension with serous fluid also has been described as having occurred in some cases. There are a few cases recorded in surgical WTitings, of Polypi springing from these sinuses, and finding their way down into the nose after producing expansion of it and much inconvenience. Here likewise, the propriety of trephining and so extracting the morbid mass would have to be considered. DISEASES OP THE CHEEKS. The chief diseases met with in the cheeks are, Naevi (p. 68), Athero- matous Cysts (Vol. I. p. 967), Subcutaneous Strumous Abscesses (Vol. I. p. 1054), Primary Syphilitic Sores (Yol. I. p. 1087), Tertiary Syphilitic Ulcers (Vol. I. p. 1113), Lupus (Vol. I. p. Ill), Epithelioma (Vol. I. p. 1028), and Rodent Ulcer (Vol. II. p. 8). The symptoms and treatment of aU these affections have already been described. On the inner surface of the cheek mucous cysts, which can easily be dissected out from the inside, are not uncommon. Epithelioma also is not rare. Malignant tumours affecting the whole thickness of the cheek can seldom be operated on with any advantage. Salivary Fistula.—One of the most troublesome surgical affections situated in the cheek is Salivary Fistula, occurring in consequence of injury, abscess, or operation, by w'hich the parotid gland or duct has been opened, so as to cause a trickling of saliva through the external aperture made into it. The flow of saliva in these cases is always to a great extent and often entirely intermittent, ceasing in the interval between meals and becoming very abundant during mastication. The Treatment is by no means satisfactory, the attempt at union of the opening in the cheek being frustrated by the escape of saliva through it. If the fistula be very small and recent, the electric cautery may be employed with success ; or the external aperture touched fi’om time to time with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver. Should these means fail, the fistula having become chronic, operative measures will be required. The closure of an old salivary fistula in the cheek is a very troublesome matter. In these cases tbe Stenonian duct appears to be obstructed or partially closed ; and it is useless to attempt to occlude the opening in the cheek until a proper aperture for the escape of the saliva has been made into the mouth ; the escape of a few drops of saliva through the fistulous opening rendering the attempt to close