701 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA. )ii Tr junction of the fifth rib witli its cartilage, is a point in the chest wall at which, from the com[)arative absence of superjacent muscles, the pleura is but slightly supported externally, and through this he believes an empyema tends naturally to ]ioiut. This point is above the oi'igin ot the external oblique, external to the insertion of the rectus and internal to the origin of the serratus magnus. It is covered by the outer edge of the pectoralis major, and is beyond the anterior limit of the external intercostal muscle. That an empyema may perforate the chest at this spot is undoubted, but according to most authorities it tends to point higher np in the second or third space. Mai-shall, arguing from the excellent results that usually follow the opening of an empyema jiointing in front, suggests that the opening should always be made on the thin point above mentioned. The only objection to this is that the ribs are somewhat closer together here than they are a little further back. The facts adduced by ^Marshall may however be said to demonstrate that ■openings made fiir back and low down do not present the advantages usually •assigned to them, and that better results Avill probably be attained by making the incision more nearly over that part of the cavity which is the last to be closed by the expansion of the lung. The space between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch to an inch and a half in front of the mid-axillary line, will probably be found the best in most cases. The interval between the ribs is wide enough here to admit a large tube readily, the covering of soft parts is not too thick, and the drainage obtained is efficient, and there is little risk of the opening becoming obstructed either by the expanding lung or the diaphragm. In cases of localized empyema the incision must, of course, be made over the collection of pus. 2. T/te method of operating. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, including, if possible, the carbolic spray, which adds greatly to the certainty of preventing putrefaction, as it is almost impossible to prevent the entrance of air during inspiration. If the opening is made in the fifth space it is not necessary in ordinary cases to remove a portion of a rib. The incision should be made about an inch and a half in length parallel to the upper border of the sixth rib, exposing it clearly. Any superficial vessel that bleeds may then be secured. The intercostal muscles and pleura are then punctured Avith the scalpel, guided by the left fore-finger in the wound, immediately above the rib, so as to avoid the intercostal artery. The blade of the knife must be parallel to the rib. A pair of dressing-forceps may then be introduced and the Avound stretched by expanding the blades, after which the tube may be at once inserted. If the opening is made further back, or if, from partial absorption of the fluid part of the pus, the ril)s ha\'e fallen together so as to leave an insufficient space for the introduction of the tube, a piece of the rib must be removed. Some Surgeons prefer ahvays to remove a portion of rib, a.sserting that by this means a better opening is ]irovidcd, but in the majority of cases it does not seem to be necessary. Should it be required the operation is thus performed. An incision from tAvo to three inches in length is made directly upon the rib, the periosteum of Avhich must be divided in the long axis of the Ijone. The Avound is then held Avidely open Avith the blunt hooks and the periosteum stripped from the exposed part of the rib Avith an elevator, AA’hich must not be too sharj). No difli-