724 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. in early life, and in women of an irritaldc and delicate constitution; it is commonly associated with disorder of the uterine functions, the pain increasing at the catamenial periods. Treatment of Adeno-Fibroma and Adeno-sarcoma.—If the tumour be firm and small, and shows no tendency to further increase, it may be let alone, unless it be a source of mental disquiet to the patient. If it assume the form of the painful mammary tumour, tlie treatment must have special reference to the removal of the neuralgic condition. This is commonly best effected by the internal administration of alteratives and tonics, more particu- larly the preparations of iron and zinc, with cod-liver oil if necessary; and by the inunction of an ointment of belladonna or aconite into the affected breast. In many cases the application of a few leeches from time to time, especially in the vicinity of the axilla, will lessen the neuralgia more effectually. If these means fail, the tumour must be removed. Adeno-fibromata are said to have occasionally disappeared, and in some instances to have been spontaneously absorbed after marriage or during pregnancy. The internal administration of Plummer’s pill and the compound decoction of aloes, and the external application of leeches, followed by the inunction of iodide of lead ointment, and the employment of pressure, either by means of Ariiott’s slack air-cushion or by Tanchou’s plan, are said also to have caused the absorption of these tumours. Tanchou’s apparatus consists of a pad to which a spiral spring is attached, and which being compressed by a proper arrangement of bandages across the chest, will keep up a steady and continued pressure upon the tumour. It is less expensive and cumbersome than the air-compressor, and has the advantage, that it can be used in conjunction with absorbent ointments, which cannot be used with the air-bag, :|| as the grease entering into their composition destroys the mackintosh cloth of i which it is made. I have employed this kind of apparatus in solid nodules in j the breast with great advantage. It is probable, however, that these cases i,? were not true adenomata, but indurated lobules of the breast due to chronic | interstitial inflammation, a condition which was formerly not clearly dis- ; tinguished from adenoma. There is no doubt that the cases of so- cancer cured by the same means, were also in reality lobules of the mamma indurated by chronic inflammation. |j; The only efficient treatment of an adeno-flbroma, or an adeno-sarcoma, is^ j its removal by excision. In doing this it is not necessary to remove theMj whole of the breast, but it will be quite sufficient to extirpate the tumourj^.) itself, or at the most the small lobe of the mammary gland connected ^vith it. This may always be done without difficulty by a single incision. In thej majority of cases, as soon as the capsule surrounding the tumour is opened, i can be shelled out without further use of the knife. There are usually few vessels to tie. In removing a tumour of this kind, there are two littl practical points that should if possible be attended to. 1. The gland shoul not be incised through its whole thickness, so as to open up the areolar be^ which is interposed between it and the pectoral muscle. If this be interfere with, infiltration of blood or of pus into it may occur, and deep abscess ran form under the breast, or at the lower edge of the gland, leading to vcr\ ^ troublesome consequences. 2. The wound must not be tightly closed, aiu r should be very thoroughly drained. Unless this be done, the discharges ar( retained, and if allowed to decompose, burrowing of unhealthy matter iiih