279 ACVTE NECROSIS. j osteomyelitis is suspected to be present in a stump after amputation, the I, medulla should be examined by a probe. If this soon impinge on healthy ( bleeding medulla, the Surgeon may wait for the efforts of nature to throw oil jlj; the diseased bone ; if, on the other hand, the probe encounter only dead bone t; and pus, then the sooner amputation is performed, the better. The special danger in osteomyelitis consists in the tendency to the super- , I vention of osteophlebitis and pymmia; and, in deciding upon the amputa- : i tion or exarticulation of a bone thus affected, it is of the first importance not to : i delay the operation until pymmic symptoms have set in. There is a period jj between the development of the local inflammation and the constitutional ] j pyaemia, which it is most important not to allow to slip by. During this j I period the patient is affected by surgical fever, but there are no rigors. If once Jf the characteristic rigors and the high temperature and profuse sweats of j pyaemia have set in, I believe that operation can be of no use, as the patient r will certainly perish from secondaiy deposits or general blood-poisoning. But, I before rigoi-s have occurred, the amputation may be done with a good prospect k I of success. The unsuccessful results of the treatment of this disease renders I it all the more imperatively necessary to prevent it by the adoption of efficient t antiseptic dressing and proper attention to the hygienic surroundings of the f patient. But in military practice this is not always possible. It has been suggested, instead of amputating at once, to scoop out the : j medulla with a sharp spoon and to introduce iodoform into the canal, i Perkowski has recently recorded 8 cases in which he carried out this treat- I ment when the symptoms of osteomyelitis had set in after amputations. In ! three the whole of the medullary canal remaining was scraped out, and in the other five a length of from to 3 inches was treated in this way ; all recovered without pytemia. The treatment certainly deserves a trial when amputation is for any reason unadvisable. ACUTE NECROSIS. Acute Necrosis is an acute infective inflammation almost exclusively met with before the growth of the skeleton has completely ceased. The affection is known by many other names, such as acute diffuse periostitis, infective periostitis, infective periostitis and osteomyelitis, acute infective osteo- myelitis, acute suppurative epiphysitis, necrosial fever and bone-typhus ; but the term “ acute necrosis ” is perhaps the best in the present state of our know- ledge, as it does not imply any theory as to the exact nature of the disease and the starting point of the inflammation. Sy3iptoms.—A typical case of acute necrosis presents the following symptoms. The patient is usually a child below the age of puberty, and most commonly a male. He is often strumous and usually in somewhat feeble health, possibly the result of a recent attack of some acute specific disease, as scarlet fever or measles. There is in most cases a histoiy of some slight injury, but'this is by no means constant. The attack begins with a sudden invasion like that of a specific fever. There is high temperature, often reaching 105° F. or even higher, occasionally with a rigor. Headache, loss of appetite, thirst, and some- times vomiting or diarrhoea are present. At first the local affection may escape observation, and simh cases are not unfrequently mistaken at the com- mencement for one of the acute specific diseases. By the second or third day, however, the local symptoms become manifest. The parts covering one of the