DJSEASES OF TJ!E BLADDER. 1030 whole front of the scrotum, including' the dartos, is raised so as to form a hi-idgc of skin connected with the groin at each side. This is lifted over the penis, and placed upon a raw surface prepared by turning down a collar or flap from the lower arched border of the new bladder-covering and from the sides of the urethrii and penis as far forwards as the glans. A continuous wire suture is applied to keep the flaps in place ; and the transplanted scrotal stmetures are united to the border of the bladder-covering by a line of interrui)ted sutures. T'he scrotal wound is readily closed by some wire sutures. By this means a sort of urethra is formed, containing the muscular tissue of the dartos in its roof, which may even give it a slight power of contraction, so as to enable the new bladder to retain small quantities of urine. This second stage of the operation is often somewhat interfered with by erections of the penis, d’hese are best controlled by ice-bags. The knees should be kept drawn up so as to relieve tension, especially in the first stage of the operation. After the cure is complete, the patient is often troubled by the growth of hair from the under surface of the umbilical flap, and the accumulation of phosphates upon the hairs and in the angles of the iieAv bladder. This is best relieved by extracting the hairs with a pair of forceps, and by using weak acid injections to remove the accumulation of phosphates. CYSTITIS. Idiopathic inflammation of the bladder is of rare occmTence. When it is met with it is usually in gouty subjects from exposure to cold. Acute cystitis most commonly originates from traumatic causes, as from the passage of in- struments, the irritation of broken fragments of calculus, &c. Occasionally it arises from the extension of gonorrhoea to the interior of the organ. It may be caused also by certain irritant poisons, of which cantharides is the most important. Occasionally it is directly dependent on decomiiosition of retained urine, but more commonly this aggravates inflammation originating from other causes. Acute Cystitis.—The Si/mptoms of cystitis consist not only in local pain and weight about the hypogastric and iliac regions, with tenderness on pressime in these situations, and a good deal of constitutional irritation ; but in the existence of extreme irritability about the bladder. So soon as a few drops of urine collect, they excite so much irritation that they camiot be retained, and are expelled by a kind of spasmodic or convulsive effort, constituting sirmi- (jurij, often accompanied by a good deal of tenesmus and great suffering. The urine will be found to be high coloured, mixed Avith more or less mucus or ]Dus, and often tinged Avith blood. Termination.—An acute attack of cystitis usually terminates in the chronic form of the disease, and thus gradually undergoes resolution. Occasionally, however, it terminates fatally ; and Avhen this is the case, the urine becomes excessively foul, and death takes place from septiemmia, suppurating kidney, or more rarely from jAeritonitis. The temperature, Avhich at flrst may have been elevated, gradually sinks, the tongue becomes brown and diy, the pulse rapid and Aveak, and the patient sinks into a droAvsy semi-comatose state before death. On examination after death, the bladder is found to contain foul urine mixed with mucus ; the mucous membrane is of an intense purple cok)ur, and frequently covered in parts by an adherent membranous layer almost like that of diphtheria. In other cases the inflammation has gone on to gangrene oi