CHROXIG ARTHRITIS—PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES. 341 • I M 4 (: r 1 3 1 / I i 'X t' Q « T » I aroimcl the joint. The ligaments become further softened, grating can be felt in the joint, and the articular surfaces become displaced. The local phenomena of Avhite swelling may thus be divided into three stages : tii-st, that in which the disease is limited chiefly to the synovial membrane and the swelling assumes the form of the synoA’ial cavity ; secondly, that in which the ligaments, cartilages, and articular ends of the bone become implicated, and the swelling becomes oval or rounded ; and thirdly, the stage of suppuration. The constitutional symptoms vary in the different stages of the disease. The general liealth does not ajDpear to suffer in the first stage beyond some slight febrile disturbance during exacerbations from over-exertion of the joint. In the second stage also, the general health is but slightly impaired, except from want of exercise, and at the later period from want of rest if noctimnal startings set in. In the third stage there is progressive loss of strength. Even when the suppuration is very chronic there is usually some slight evening elevation of temperatm’e, seldom, however, exceeding 101° F. After the abscess has burst, the constitutional symptoms become more severe, hectic may speedily set in, and tubercular disease of other organs, such as the lungs, may carry olf the patient. Pathological Changes.—The pathological changes that occur in white swelling have been very accurately described by Billroth. In the earliest stages that have been observed, the syno^nal fringes are swollen and the membrane generally thicker than natural, and hypermmic. There is generally no increase of secretion, but the synovia is often slightly turbid. I have once had the opportunity of examining a joint in this stage in a case of disease of the knee, in which, at the request of the physicians in attendance, I ampu- tated at a very early period, in the hope of relieving very severe epilepsy from which the child was suffering. The appearances observed were exactly those described by Billroth, and w'ere limited to the synovial membrane, the other structures entering into the artieulation being ajDparently healthy. As the disease advances, the synovial membrane becomes thicker, and more vascular, its natural smooth surface is lost, and soft spongy gTanulations spring up upon, it. This change is especially marked in the synovial fringes. These form soft masses of granulation-tissue wdiich fill up the angles between the articular surfaces and gradually creep over the cartilages. Where tw'O granulating- synovial surfaces are in contact, as in the pouches of the knee-joint, they coalesce, and thus the cavity of the joint becomes gradually obliterated. It is in consequence of this limitation of the disease to the synovial membrane in the early stages, that the swelling of the joint, observed clinically, takes the form of the distended articular cavity, as in simple synovitis with effusion. As the disease advances, the chronic inflammation extends to the ligaments and capsule, which becomes infiltrated wdth the inflammatory products, and swollen and lardaceous in appearance ; and later on the areolar tissue surround- ing the joint is similarly affected. It is owing to this that the swollen joint loses the form of the distended synovial membrane Avhich characterized the earlier stages, and Ixjcomes rounded or oval. Simultaneously with the affection of the ligaments, the growth of the granulation-tissue within the joint continues until the synovial membrane may come to be represented by a soft pulpy mass of granulation-tissue from half an inch to nearly an inch in thickness. The growth gradually spreads over the cartilage, coveriii<>-