SPECIAL ANEUIUEMH. i66 One died three nioiitlis after tlic 0])eratioii of Ijronchitis, and the second died two years after also of broncliitis, and in hotli of these the disease was practically cured. The third remains well up to the present time. In Browne’s and Ber«-manii’s cases the improvement continued up to the last report. Of the fatal cases, four died from rn];)ture of the sac, one from heemor- rhag-e from the ligatured arteries, one from shock, one from Inemorrhage from the sac, one from exhaustion, one from asphyxia, one from the ana3Sthetic, two fr-om the unrelieved progress of the aneurism, and in two the cause of death was doubtful. Th6 operation was attempted in another case by Chevers, but the subclavian vein was wounded, and the patient died in two hours. The carotid and subclavian have also been tied consecutively at intervals varying from two years to one month, in six cases, by Fearn, Wickham, Malgaigne, Mott, Bickersteth, and Adams and Treves. In all cases the carotid was tied first. In Fearn’s case two years elapsed between tlie opera- tions, and the patient died four months after the subclavian was tied, of pleui’isy. The aneurism was found to be consolidated, with the exception of a channel leading to the subclavian. In Wickham’s case relief followed the ligature of the carotid, but symptoms soon returned, and the subclavian was tied about six weeks afterwards, but without effect, the patient dying in two- and-a-half months from rupture of the sac. In Mott’s case a practical cure resulted, the 23atient dying of phthisis three years after the second operation. In Adams and Treves’ case the aneurism was consolidated, but death took place 108 days after the second operation from rupture of the sac of an aortic aneurism. In the remaining cases no benefit was derived from the operation. A rhurm of the cases of aneurism of the innominate, in which the oiDeration of ligaturing one or both arteries beyond the sac has been performed, havmg thus been given, the question arises whether these operations, or any of them, should retain a j)lace in sm’gery. This question may be examined fr-om two jDoints of view : 1. As to the principle on which these operations are performed ; and 2. As to their results in jDractice. For the success of the distal operation, it is requisite that there be no branch given off, either from the sac or between it and the ligature ; or that the current of blood through the sac be at least so far diminished as to admit of the deposition of laminated fibrine in sufficient quantity to fill it up, by a process similar to that Avhich happens in a case of aneurism treated by the Hunterian method. In order that this may be accom- jDlished, it is certainly necessary that the greater portion of the blood passing through the sac be arrested ; for, if the current that is still kept up be too free, the tumour will continue to increase, as we have seen happen in cases of inguinal aneurism in which the femoral artery has been ligatiu’ed below the epigastric and the circumflex ilii, the current tlu-ough which has been sufficient to feed the sac in such way that a cure could not be accomplished. If, there- fore, but one of the vessels leading fr-om the brachio-cephalic, as the subclavian beyond the scaleni, be tied, and but a third of the blood circulating through the main artery be arrested, are we justified in hojDing that the circulation through the sac will be so influenced by the diversion of this small quantity, that the remaining two-thirds of the blood, which will still pass through for the supply of the carotid and the branches of the subclavian, will gradually dej^osit those fibrinous laminm by which obliteration of the tumour is to be effected ? Should we not rather expect that the larger current will be too powei-ful to allow the formation of these layers, and will continue to distend