ACCIDEyrS DURING LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 967 oscape from l)etween them ; or it may arise from tlio large size of the calculus requiring some force to be exercised in its extraction, ■when the Surgeon is very apt to compress the forceps as he draws the stone down. hen this accident is found to have occurred, the Surgeon must remove with small forceps or the scoop the fragments that have been detached, lie should then wash out the bladder by copious injections of tepid water, and very carefully examine its interior for any loose pieces. It is seldom that any worse conse([uence results from this occurrence, than delay in the completion of the operation. The second mode of fracdure consists in the crumbling down of the calculus so soon as it is seized by the forcejis, into a soft mortary mass ; the stone is not broken into largo pieces, but, having naturally little cohesion, disinte- grates into a mass of softish fragments, none of which probably exceed a eheny-stone in size, and which indeed resemble a wet sabulous aggregation, rather than distinct pieces of calculus. This crumbling down can occur only in phosphatic calculi. It is in no way the fault of the Surgeon, but arises from want of cohesion in the calculus, so that the blades of the forceps bite, as it were, through it. It is an unpleasant accident to occur, as it becomes extremely difficult, if not impossible, to clear away the whole of the soft mortary detritus from the interior of the bladder, to the lining membrane of which it tenaciously adheres, small masses lying under the folds into which the con- tracted organ is thrown. As much as possible should bo removed by the scoop, and the remainder washed away, as far as practicable, by copious injections ; with all care, however, some will be left, and may be discharged through the wound some days, or even two or three weeks, after the operation. When this happens, the bladder should be thoroughly washed out every day, or every second day, by warm water injections thrown in through a catheter passed down the urethra, and allowed to regurgitate through the wound ; and this plan must be persevered in so long as any foreign body escapes. Should the wound have healed, the detritus must be treated as in lithotrity ; and the bladder must be Avashed out eveiy second or third day by a large-eyed catheter, until aU is removed. Accidkxts during LiTHOTOiiY.—The principal accidents that may occur during the performance of the lateral operation of lithotomy are Hmmorrhage ; < 'utting the Bulb ; ]\Iissing the jMembranous Portion of the Urethra ; Wound of the Rectum ; or Wound of the Posterior Part of the Bladder. Haemorrhage during lithotomy may occur from three sources :—1. The Snpeificial Arteries of the Perinieum ; i. The Deep Arteries of this region ; and, 3. 'Idle Prostatic and other Veins. When excessive, from whatever source it proceeds, it is always a very serious complication ; for, even if it do not prove fatal by the induction of syncope, &c., which I believe to be very rarely the case, it is apt to lead to a fatal termination indirectly at a later jicriod, by ])redisposing to the occurrence of infective processes cither local or general. 1 believe that jiatients who lose a large quantity of blood at the operation seldom recover. 1. Hmmorrhage from thG,JJivmon of the Superficial or the Transveme Artery of the Perinmtm is seldom very dangerous, though occasionally, if these vessels Vie larger than usual, they may furnish a serious ((uantity of blood ; in such circumstances their ligature would be required, and might be practised either before or after the extraction of the calculus. It is better, if possible, to wait (