4o6 EXCISION OF JOINTS. of compound dislocation in which the bone, having been thrown out of its bed, eventnally becomes carious or necroses. The operation of excision of the whole of the astragalus for disease may be done as follows. A curved incision, from four to six inches in length, should be made immediately behind the outer malleolus, and carried forward on the outer part of the dorsum of the foot to opposite the fore part of the bone. The divisions of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint are then cut across ; the tendons of the peroneus brevis and tertius, and the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, divided. But the mass of extensor tendons in front of the foot, with the dorsalis pedis artery, must be left untouched. These should be drawn forcibly inwards. The peroneus longus tendon may be drawn backwards. The foot is then strongly twisted inwards, the astragalus cleared, and its ligaments divided from the outer side in succession as they present themselves. When the operation is done for disease of the bone, these structures Avill usually be more or less softened and disorganized ; when for injury, they will in a great measure have been torn through. Hence, in actual operation, the same steps cannot be followed so methodically as may be done on the dead subject. The bone must now be seized with lion-forceps and drawn well out of its bed ; the knife being applied to any restraining structures, but being used very carefully towards the inner side of the bone, lest the plantar arteries be wounded. Under this process the softened and carious bone usually breaks down and has to be taken away piecemeal, or its neck may be cut across, and the head separately removed from its articulation with the scaphoid. If the bone have been dislocated, and its ligamentous con- nections thus torn through, or if these have been disorganized and softened by disease, it may readily enough be removed as just described. But if the osseous tissue itself be carious and softened, and the ligamentous connections tolerably sound, then the operation becomes extremely troublesome, tedious, and pro- longed—the bone breaking down, and having to be removed piecemeal by means of the gouge and pliers. The result of this operation is very satisfactory; a good and movable articu- lation may be left between the malleoli and calcaneum, and the limb is but little shortened. According to Hancock, of 109 cases in which the astragalus was removed, 76 recovered with good and useful limbs ; secondary amputa- tion was performed in two, with one death; 15 others died; and in 14 the results are not known. The operation was performed in 64 cases for com- pound dislocation, with 50 complete recoveries ; in 20 of simple dislocation, with 14 complete recoveries; and in 10 for caries, perfect recovery taking place in 6. 2. When the disease has extended from the astragalus to the malleolar arch, excision of the aniclefoint will be required. This operation may most conve- niently be performed in the following way. A semilunar incision, about four inches in length, should be made along the outer and inferior aspect of the joint, round the lower border of the external malleolus (Fig. 560), and should i be carried sufficiently forwards to give space without dividing the extensor | tendons or the dorsal artery. A perpendicular cut should then be made along | the back of the fibula. The peroneal tendons need not be divided, but should | be drawn downwards and backwards ; the lower end of the fibula should next i be cut across and detached. The astragalus, which will now be exposed, shoul ‘ then be separated from its connections, which, if they be much diseased, ma^ |