6i2 plastic surgery OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. broken fra^-ment of bone, which has actually occurred, is not an unlikely accident. Should the operation fail, or if from any reason it fs not advisable to attempt it, the patient may be fitted with a painted vulcanite nose, attached to spectacles, by which the deformity is most efficiently concealed. Fistulous Openings through the Nasal Bones leadinf^ into the in- terior of the nostrils are occasionally met with. Such apertures as these are, perhaps, best closed by paring- the edges, and then bringing forward a flap of neighbouring skin by the gliding operation. In some cases of this kind, pro- cedures may be required, in which the Surgeon may display much ingenuity and benefit his patient greatly. The cuts represent a ca.se many years since 697.—Opening into Anterior Nares. Ffg. 69S.—Opening into Anterior Nares closed by Operation. under my care, before and the day after operation, in which a large aperture into the side of the nose, resulting fr’om necrosis of the left nasal bone con- sequent on scarlatina (Fig. 697), was successfully closed by a flap of skin taken fr’om the forehead by the twisting process (Fig. 698). The patient, who was a child at the time of the operation, has since gi’own into a comely woman, presenting scarcely a trace of the operation. Operation for Depressed Nose.—Sometimes the nose is depressed and flattened in consequence of the loss of the cartilages, vomer, and septum, though the external parts remain entire. Dieffenbach has proposed a plan for raising it by slitting it longitudinally into three pieces ; dissecting the lateral slips from the osseous attachments ; paring the edges to such an extent that they overlap, and stitching them together ; then bringing the whole organ forwards by pushing long hare-lip pins across its base, so as to elevate and narrow its attachments, which are brought more into the mesial line. Fergusson has improved this procedure by not slitting the nose down, but dissecting it away from the bones from within the nostril, and then pushing long steel-pointed silver needles across from check to cheek, and twisting their ends over per- forated pieces of sole-leather, through Avhich they had previously been passed, thus bringing the whole organ bodily forwards. The columna is next fashioned in the way which has already been described ; and the nose is completed.