101 CLASSIFICATION. in France than in England. In America, it is also of frequent occurrence ; . but in the East 1 ndies it is comparatively rare. Cachexy induced by any cause, such as syphilis, chronic gout, or rheuma- tism, the abuse of mercury, &c., has a tendency to occasion disease of the coats of the arteries, and thus to predispose to aneurism. But, though mercury and 'Syphilis are commonly said to tend specially to the production of this disease, I am not aware that we are in possession of any definite facts that would warrant us in coming to this conclusion; though it is probable that the cachexy thus induced may dispose to it as much as any other cause. It is remarkable that phthisis is antagonistic to aneurism ; though probably this may arise from the facts that the heart’s action is feeble in that disease, and that violent musculai- exertion is seldom undertaken by those labouring under it. r Any obstacle to the free flow of blood through an organ or the capil- laries of a part, exercises an important influence in disposing to aneurism, as it - throws an increase of pressure on the interior of the artery. Chevers believes that obstruction in the abdominal organs frequently occasions aneurisms of the j abdominal arteries. Spontaneous aneurisms of the smaller arteries, as the i radial, ulnar, or tibials, are believed in the great majority of cases to be due i, to the impaction of an embolus Avashed on fi'om a diseased heart; but in these |i cases the obstruction to the floAV of blood plays but a secondary part in the I process, the most important element being the softening of the coats of the I vessel consequent upon the irritating nature of the material of which the I embolus is composed. There is no reason to believe that a simple embolus i’ ever causes aneurism (see p. Sb). I The only Exciting or Direct Occasioning Causes of aneurism are blows, \*iolent strains, and Avounds of an artery. When an atheromatous artery is 1 concussed by a blow, the lining membrane covering the softened patch may be raptured, the atheroma being poured out into the interior of the vessel; and the external coat, Avith perhaps a portion of the middle adlierent to it, becoming thus exposed to the pressure of the contained blood before it has been fully consolidated by chronic inflammation and the formation of ncAV fibroid tissue, the foundation of an aneurism may readily be laid. In A^'ery forcible muscular efforts, it is easy to understand how an already Aveakeued portion of the vessel may become dilated by the increased pressure that is throAvn upon its interior: occasionally even the vessel may be completely torn across by a Auolent strain. Wounds implicating arteries are common causes of those Anrious forms of aneurism that have already been discussed in considering Injuries of Arteries (Vol. I., p. 445). Classification.—Aneiu-ism may be classified as follows :— 1. Fusiform.—True. 2. ►Sacculated.-^ a. True. b. False. a. Circumscribed. /3, Diffused. i). Dissecting. 1. Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism.—This is a pnnternatural dilatation of an artery, all the coats of whicli are equally exjianded through the AA'hole circumference of the vessel. It occurs most frequently in the aorta, and mav, though rarely, be met Avith elscAvhere. The fusiform aneurism is not a mere dilatation of the vessel, for there are elongation, thickening, and degeneration of its Avails as Avell. The elongation of the artciy in the fusiform aneurism is