EXCISION OF THE ANKLE. 407 isually be readily done. If not deeply affected, it will be more firmly held, ind should then be cut across with pliers, and each fragment lifted out of its >ed with gouge or pliers. The foot may next be well drawn to the inner side, jid the lower end of the tibia carefully isolated ; the knife being used with p-eat caution, and kept close to the bone, lest the posterior tibial artery be iijured, or the soft parts may bo stripped from the bone with a periosteal levator. When the ligamentous structures attached to the bone have been eparated, the inner malleolus is cut off with bone-forceps, and as much as tecessary of the lower end of the tibia removed by a gouge or chain-saw. should there be any disease of the articular surfaces of the calcaneum or caphoid, this must be gouged away. After the oj)eration the limb must be )laced on a suitable splint (Fig. 5G1). 8. When the disease has extended from the astragalus upivards into the malleolar rreh, and dowmeards into the calcaneum, the line of practice will depend on the Fig. 561.—Limb after Excision of the Ankle-joint. vtent of the implication of the os calcis. If the greater part or the whole of lis be involved, no resource is left but amputation—resection not leaving ! useful foot. If, however, the calcaneum be only partly involved, its upper arface only being affected, a great deal may be done by conservative surgery, he treatment in such cases consists, generally, in removing the astragalus from .6 bed, and gouging away any diseased bone which may exist either on the pper surface of the calcaneum or on the under surface of the malleolar 'ch. Very large portions of bone may be removed from this situation, have taken away the whole of the malleolar arch and astragalus, and gouged it the upper surface of the os calcis very freely ; and yet the patient •38 recovered ^with a strong and movable foot, but very little shortened or jformed. The accompanying cuts (Fig. 502) are taken from a young man on whom I )rformed the operation just described. The foot is perfectly useful and rong, and the false joint at the ankle movable. There arc cases in which e find that the disease has extended so far beyond its primary seat, that mputation rather than resection is required. But, in the majority of instances, ■moval of the astragalus and gouging away the upper surface of the calcaneum ill suffice. The result of excision of the tibio-tarsal articulation is generally good.