DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. ^34 its diagnosis. If, however, it be seeji for tlie first time after the characteristic slong’h lias separated, the foul cavity that is left may closely resemble an epithelioma. If there is great doubt a piece of the floor or edge of the ulcer may be removed and examined microscopically, when the 'true nature of the disease can usually be determined. The Treatment consists in the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium, and if that produces no effect mercury may be given. If the gumma softens and ulcerates, the same const! tutioual treatment must be continued and the sore dressed with iodoform. Tumours of the Tongue.—Papillomata.—Small Avarts are sometimes formed on the tongue and are easily removed with scissors. Warty growths of larger size are occasionally met with composed of large papillm covering the end or side of the tongue. These must always be regarded Avith suspicion, for epithelioma may assume this form, or if the groAvth is at first simple it tends soon to become malignant. Naevus and Aneurism by Anastomosis are but rarely seen in the tongue, and when met with would require to be treated on the same principles that guide us in the management of the disease elseAvhere. A very remark- able instance of an erectile tumour of nsevoid character affecting the tongue came under my care, in Avhich the Avhole of the free extremity of the organ Avas implicated in the morbid groAA^th, presenting a club-shaped end, Avhich protruded between the teeth and lips of the patient, a girl about three years old. In this case Image, of Bury St. Edmunds, had very judiciously arrested the activity of the disease, and had produced consolidation of the mass, by the introduction of setons, which Avere worn for some months ; and, when the child subsequently came under my care, the chief inconvenience that existed resulted fi’om interference Avith speech, and the deformity occasioned by the hypertrophied and elongated organ (Fig.-434). By means of the ecraseur I removed all the redundant tissues, and so reduced the tongue to its normal length and breadth. A form of very vascular local hypertrophy may occur in the tongue at a later period of life, which may perhaps be best classed with these groAvths. The case of which Fig. 724 is a good representation was of this kind. It occurred in a lady about 50 years of age, and pulsated strongly. The disease was confined to the anterior half of the tongue, which I success- fully removed Avith the ecraseur. Cystic Tumours of the Tongue.—Two forms of cyst have been met with in the tongue, hi/datids, Avhich ai-e extremely rare, and mucous cysts. _ • i i m Mucous Cysts seldom reach any large size. They lie immediately beuea i the mucous membrane, usually on the dorsum or at one side. The} may e so tense as to resemble solid giwths. Chronic abscesses AAhich aie oci.a sionally found in the tongue cannot with certainty be distinguished froui mucous cysts till the fluid has been let out by a puncture. The treamen o a mucous cyst consists in dissecting it out if possible. If this cannot e one,