VOL. II. n DIVISION FOUETH. DISEASES OF TISSUES. CHAPTER XXXVII. SUEGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The various specific cutaneous affections, such as eczema, scabies, impetigo, acne, lepra, psoriasis, &c., probably fall vfithin the pro^dnce of the Surgeon, and are commonly treated by him in practice ; but, as the consideration of these diseases would necessarily lead into the whole subject of Dermatology, the limits of this work would not allow me to discuss so extensive and special a branch of Surgery; and I must therefore content myself with the consider- ation of some of those affections of the skin, which, requiring manual assistance, may perhaps be more properly looked upon as within the scope of the present Treatise. These diseases may be considered under the several heads of Diseases of the Skin itself, including the various forms of non- mahgnant ulceration, and the malignant ulcers and tumours, and Diseases of the Appendages of the Skin, as the nails. We have already in Chapter VI. con- sidered the ordinary non-malignant ulcers of the skin, and in Chapter XXXIV. some of the simple tumoims that occur in connection with the tissue ; we shall here, therefore, consider only the Diseases of the Appendages of the Skin and the Malignant Ulcers and Tumours. DISEASES OP THE APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN. Diseases of the Nails.—The nails may become diseased, as the result of mechanical injury, or as a part of some general cutaneous affection ; they may suffer from inflammation of the matrix or may grow into the soft tissue of the toes. A violent blow or pinch often partly loosens the nail and causes an extra- vasation of blood beneath it. It then becomes black in colour and slowly separates. No treatment is required beyond protecting the injured part by some convenient covering. In some broken states of health, and especially in persons suffering fi-om squamous disease of the skin, the nails occasionally become blackish or dark- brown in colour, are rugged, dry, and cracked, scaling off, as it were, without any apparent affection of the matrix. This condition, of which I have seen several instances, is best cured by a course of alteratives or tonics, the disease yielding as the general health becomes improved. Arsenic will often be found of great service, either alone or with mercury. Onychia is a disease of the nails dependent on inflammation of the matrix; it occurs under two forms, the smjjle and the sjmi/ic.