264 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. spongy than natnral, and the aiTangeinent of its structure is often more or less completely altered. In normal compact tissue some of the superficial lamella} lie parallel to the simface, but in the greater part they are arranged circularly around the Haversian canals ; not unfrequently, however, we find in chronic osteitis that the compact structure undergoes a peculiar laminated expansion, so that a section of it presents throughout parallel layers concentric with the medulla. The lamellae are separated from each other by pink vascular tissue. This change is necessarily accompanied by considerable increase in size of the affected bone, which may extend throughout a great part of its length. Microscopic examination shows, in such a case as this, that the pink tissue between the bony laminae is composed chiefly of round cells, like those of ordinary granulation-tissue, but on one side of the lamella the cells in contact with the osseous layer are assuming the form of osteoblasts, indicating that formation of bone is taking plaee ; while, on the other, the surface of the lamella is irregular, presenting the hollows known as Howship’s lacunae, and in these are the large many-nucleated cells, or osteoclasts, which are indicative of destruc- tion of bone. This process, when occuiTing as a pathological change, is usually regarded as inflammatory, but the close analogy between it and normal growth is evident. In the growing bone of a child the medullary canal is hollowed out by a process similar to that just described and new bone is constantly deposited on the surface by the periosteum. In chronic osteitis with “ expansion ” of the bone, the chief difference is in the diffusion of the process throughout the compact tissue and its irregularity. If the source of irritation to which the expanding osteitis is due be removed, the destructive part of the change ceases and new bone is formed on both sides of the lamellse, and thus, while the abnormal size is more or less completely retained, the structure becomes as dense as, or sometimes denser than, nonnal compact tissue. In some few cases the appearances presented by the diseased bone are such as to suggest that the periosteum takes but little part in the process, but more commonly expansion of the compact tissue is associated vdth laminated deposits of new bone from the periosteum. Expansion of bone by a tumour is a change of the same character, the destructive processes just described taking place in the parts pressed on by the growth, while at the same time new bone is developed beneath the periosteum. j Thus, even when the tumour exceeds the normal bone in size, it is often found | still to be surrounded by a shell of osseous tissue. i Syphilitic Osteitis has been already described (Yol. I., p. 1115). I Necrosis of the Compact Tissue may be the result of direct injury, j as a severe blow. A portion of bone may perish from its vascular supply | being cut off by separation of the periosteum by injury or by the formation of pus beneath the membrane ; and in like manner suppuration in the medullary canal may cause the death of neighboiuing compact tissue. When the com- pact tissue becomes involved in acute inflammation extending to it, either from the medulla or from the periosteum, it is very apt to necrose from pressure upon the vessels in the Haversian canals by the inflammatory exudation within them. Chronic osteoplastic osteitis may also, in some cases, end in necrosis from gradual obliteration of the Haversian canals. It is quite possible that small fi’agments of bone may die and be subsequently absorbed ; but that this may take place it is necessary that the dead portion must be of small size and