niSEASUS OF THE NOSE—ACNE ROSACEA. 541 If there is pain, redness and oedema over the process, indicating pcnt-np pus in tlie mastoid cells, trephining is sometimes required. It is only necessary to use a trephine when the bone is very hard. As a rule the outer layers caii be cut away with a small gouge, after which the miistoid cells can be broken into with a strong probe. The opening should be made a quarter to half an inch behind the attachment of the auricle, and on a level with the upper margin of the external meatus. The instrument must be directed inwards and slightly forwards. The operation must be performed with great caution, to avoid any risk of wounding the dura mater or the lateral sinus. This operation must be reserved for cases in which the pain, swelling, and tenderness over the process lasting for some time clearly indicate an accumulation of pus. If carefully performed it can do no harm and may do much good. The constitutional treatment consists in the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and tonics, as the case may require. OtorrhcBa.—This is merely a name for a muco-purulent discharge from the ear. As already pointed out it may arise from diffuse inflammation of the external meatus, from badly treated abscess of the meatus, from catarrh of the luiddle ear with perforation of the membrana tympani, and from disease of the petrous portion of the temporal bone or mastoid process. Disease of the bones of the ear is very rarely primary, being almost always a secondary consequence of disease of the mucous membrane. The treatment has been already described. Polypus.—Polypi of the ear, in the great majority of cases, spring from the tympanum, and project through an opening in the membrana in cases of chronic aural catarrh. They are rarely met with springing from the external meatus. They are usually hard and fleshy-looking, though sometimes soft and gelatinous, as in the nose ; sometimes pedunculated, but at others situated on a broad base. They produce serious inconvenience by obstructing the external ear, and require to be twisted off by means of forceps, or, if too firmly fixed for this, cut off nflth scissors or a wire snare ; after which means must be taken to cure the purulent catarrh upon which the growth is dependent. Nervous Deafness is recognized by the absence of the symptoms of any of the foregoing diseases, or of the history of their occurrence, and by the fact that a vibrating tuning fork is either not heard at all or imperfectly heard when it is placed upon the vertex or between the teeth. As it is not amenable to sm-gical treatment, it is needless to discuss here its causes or patliology. DISEASES OP THE NOSE. Ext?:rxal Affections of the Nose.—Acne Rosacea is an affection of the skin of the nose, in many cases distinctly resulting from alcoholic excess, in othere, especially in women, being apparently connected with chronic dyspepsia. It commences as a red spot on Avhich dilated capillaries are visible, and extends gradually over the whole tip of the nose and often to the adjacent parts of the face. At first the sebaceous follicles arc not affected, but later on they usually become enlarged, making the surface more or less tuberculatcd. Some thickening of the skin usually occurs at this stage. The irmtnicnt consists in correcting evil habits in drinking or eating, and attention to