273 CHRONIC ABSCESS OF BONE. Microscopic examination of one of Sir James Paget’s cases by H. T. Butlin confirmed the opinion that the disease is inflammatory. He says : “ The whole microscopic architecture of the bone had been altered ; the structure aj)- peared to have been almost entirely removed and laid down afresh on a different plan and in a larger mould.” The enlarged Haversian canals contained a tissue closely resembling that found in ordinary rarefying osteitis, but more fibrillar, and containing fewer cells. In some of the canals the process of destruction was evidently progressing, Howship’s lacunm with osteoclasts (p. 202) being seen, while in other parts new bone was being formed as was shown by the presence of osteoblasts. Beyond this there is no evidence to show the exact nature or causes of this disease. No treatment seems to be of any use. CHBONIC ABSCESS OF BONE. Chronic abscesses in bone are usually met with in the cancellous tissue, and occur with special frequency in the head and lower end of the tibia. The abscess forms as the result of rarefying osteitis of a localized portion of the cancellous tissue (p. 2G2). This process continues till the bony cancelli are completely destroyed. Subsequently the inflammatory products undergo fatty degenera- tion and soften, forming thick curdy fluid containing few recognizable pus- cells and large quantities of fatty cUbi'is. The process may continue gTadually to extend, and may thus undennine the contiguous cartilage, and eventually the abscess may burst into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 500). The tendency for the pus to burrow in this direction is increased by the want of formation of any new bone beneath the cartilage, while it readily takes place under the periosteum. In young subjects, before the union of the epiphyses, the pus commonly finds its way to the surfaces through the soft tissue between the epiphysis and the diaphysis. Very frequently, however, the disease becomes excessively chronic. The abscess is then of small size and deeply seated in the cancellous tissue. The inflammation in the bone immediately suri’ounding the cavity in these cases often assumes the osteoplastic form, and the collec- tion of pus becomes surrounded by a wall of exces- sively dense hard bone, and in this state it may remain unchanged for many months or even years. The irritation caused by the presence of the pus usually gives rise to chronic inflammatory changes in the neighbouring compact tissue and periosteum. These assume the form de- scribed in the previous page as “ chronic osteitis and periostitis,” and pro- duce considerable general enlargement of the affected end of the bone. Chronic abscesses have been occasionally, but more rarely, met with in the medullary canal. The quantity of pus contained in a chronic abscess of bone is usually very small, amounting to one or two drachms, but Stanley has recorded cases in which an ounce or more was found. It may happen that degeneration of the inflammatory products or suppura- tion may take place before the rarefying process has advanced far cnouo-h to VOL. II. Fig. 500.—Abscess in the Head of the Tibia.