LUMBAR COLOTOMY. 847 along the crest of the ilium. From the micl-poiiit between the t^\o spines (Heath), or half an inch behind it (Allingham), a vertical line is drawn upwards, as in Fig. 803. This corresponds tolerably accurately to the line of the colon. In this line a point is taken exactly mid-way between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. An incision, either transverse or inclined slightly downwards and forwards (Fig. 803), is then made, passing through this point. It must bo from three to four inches in length, half on each side of the vertical line. If the measurements have been correctly taken, the posterior extremity of the incision will be at the edge of the erector spime. In fact, the edge of this muscle is practically a better guide than the vertical line just mentioned. The incision is steadily deepened through the skin and superficial fascia by light strokes of the knife. After these are divided, the external oblique 'comes into view in the anterior two-thirds of the wound, and the Fig. 803.—Line of Incision foi" Lumbar Colotomy. Dotted line indicates situation of Descending Colon. latissimus dorsi in the posterior third ; these are divided by drawing the knife lightly along the wound, and the internal oblique is then exposed and cut through in the same way. The fascia lumborum now comes into view. This is the first important rallying point. It must be picked up carefully with the dissecting forceps, and opened with the knife held horizontally ; the finger, guiding a probe-pointed bistoury may then be introduced tlirough the opening, and the fascia lumborum divided freely to the whole length of the wound. At this stage the last dorsal nerve and the artery accompanying it are usually divided, and the vessel must be twisted or tied. The incision through the fascia lumborum always opens the sheath of the quadratus lumborum, the external boi’der of which must be freely notched if it obstruct the wound. In dividing the muscles two points must be attended to ; first, that these structures are divided to the same extent as the skin, otherwise the ' Surgeon will continue to dig in a deep and conical pit, and will certainly fail to recognize at the bottom of it the gut of which he is in search ; and • secondly, to avoid drifting downwards towards the crest of the ilium, as the incision is deepened from drawing the wound to one side with the left hand. At this stage of the operation two copper spatulm must be put into the '• wound, by which it is drawn widely open. Some loose fat then comes into ' view, which must be carefully torn through with the fingers, no forceps or other instrument being used. In thin patients this fat is Avanting. The fa.scia transversalis next appears. This is a very variable structure ; in fat females it is scarcely recognizable, Avhile in a thin male it is often so strong