MECHANICAL EFFECTS OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 1059 le orifice. Then a small quantity of urine is expelled ; the neck of the bladder bllapses, and before the cavity is completely emptied, the orifice is blocked j the projecting middle lobe, and the flow ceases. Thus a certain amount ' urine is always retained, which is ammonly termed the “ residual urine,” id none escapes till the bladder is in a ate of considerable tension. As the liddle lobe increases in size, a greater jgree of stretching is necessary before 'ine can esctipe. Under this constant nsion the bladder slowly yields and 3Comes dilated, its walls arc thick- led by fibroid tissue, and it gradually >jcome's completely “ atonic,” losing all ’ctive power of contraction. At last condition is reached in which urine l.)ws only when the bladder is greatly sstended, and the escape of a few drops sufficient to render the obstruction |'!*mplete, and thus a condition of 'most constant dribbling of urine is :tablished. This forms the most epical variety of prostatic obstruction. •ess commonly, the obstacle to the sHSsa<yc of urine is of such a nature that O can be forced by increased pressure, ud we then find the muscular coat of • e bladder hypertrophied, as in stric- ire of the urethra. In still more rare ilsses the middle lobe lies between the ! larged lateral lobes, thus propping the (ck of the bladder open, and then true incontinence may occur with constant vibbling of urine. The effect on the kidney will vary according to circumstances. If the ladder is in a constant state of over-distension, a similar increased tension I 11 ccur in the ureters, as it is evident that increased force will be required drive the urine through their orifices. We consequently find all the signs increased tension already described (p. 906) ; dilated ureters and pelvis, ti^orption of the pyramids, chronic interstitial nephritis, &c. (Fig. 914). (t i:nally, should decomposition occur in the mine retained in the bladder, C may extend tlirough the orifices of the ureter to the kidney; and in this i'tovy a large proportion of patients suffering from prostatic disease die of septic t ■ -P Fig. 914.—Results of enlarged Prostate: Bladder enlarged; Ureters dilated; Chronic Disease of Kidney.s. [ppurative nephritis. ]Moral Effects of Enlarged Prostate.—The irritation of a congested d enlarged prostate will excite libidinous ideas in the aged, which may lead the perpetration of acts of indecency—such as exposure of the person, decent assaults on children, or to a general impairment of the moral tone, ‘lit not only docs the diseased state of this body thus excite a depraved ^■ndition of the mind ; the converse will also happen. And if the true history ■ many cases of prostatic congestion and hmiuoiThagc were told, the diseases Y 2