CONCESTIVE AND ORGANIC STRICTURE. 1087 ■ irritufciou of tlie periueal muscles, and not of the true organic muscles of le canal. That the two conditions of congestion and spasm are frequently ssociated in the urethra, in the relation of cause and effect, there can be no oubt ; and this is the most frequent condition in which spasmodic strictures •e found. Indeed, congestion plays an important part in all forms of stric- ire ; it may, as we have just seen, be connected with the spasmodic variety ; may occur alone ; or it may be associated Avitli organic stricture. Some arts of the urethra appear to be more subject to congestion than others ; lus, for instance, the membranous and prostatic portions, especially the folds : f mucous membraue constituting the verumontanum, arc peculiarly liable to ecome congested. Causes.—Congestive stricture frequently occurs as the result of chronic and iiig-contiuucd inflammation of the urethra, or of the passage of urine that as been rendered irritating by being too concentrated, or by an admixture of n undue proportion of lithates. It is especially in gouty or rheumatic sub- lets who suffer fi'om irritability of the skin and mucous membranes that this onditiou occiu-s. In these cases there is no true or permanent obstruction; uit the disease is transitory, and due solely to a swollen state of the mem- ■rane of the part. But in the majority of cases it complicates, and aggi’avates eriously, spasmodic and slight organic strictures. Symptoms.— In congestive stricture we not only find the common symptoms ••cciisioned by an impediment of the free passage of the urine, but some swelling )f the lips of the urethra, mth reddening and eversion of them. There is also .light gleety e.xudation, and not unfrequently an abundant puriform discharge, n fact, ui’ethritis of a marked kind, with a sense of weight or fulness in the ■Derinaeum, pain in micturition, and sometimes uneasiness in defsecation. This i;tate of things constitutes a very troublesome affection, intimately connected vith the various forms of m’ethritis, and exceedingly apt to relaj^se from appa- ’ently veiy trivial circumstances, slight errors of diet, dyspeptic derangements, )r any local sources of irritation. The Treatment in these cases should consist in careful regulation of the diet md habits of life, and especially in the administration of the citrate of potash, md the saline aperient mineral waters, as those of Carlsbad or Friedrichshall. If there be much tenderness or weight about the perinmum, the appheation ■of leeches to this part, together with the use of the waim hip-bath, will be er^'iceable. Congestive stricture, though more influenced by constitutional than by local means in many cases, yet is often gi’eatly relieved by the oceasional introduc- tion of bougies. In some instances a soft instrument, in others a silver, will l>c found to answer best. Whatever is used, care should be taken to introduce iit slowly and with every possible gentleness. With all care, some haemorrhage Gusually follows the passage of the instrument; not from deep laceration, but !«imply as the result of compression of the mucous membrane ; and the (discharge of blood appears to be beneficial rather than otherwise. Organic Stricture.—This, the true form of stricture, is the result of the iformation of dense fibrous tissue in the mucous membrane and submucous 'tissue of a portion of the urethra, in many cases extending to the neighbouring '.sp(>ngy tiasue, or even further. This is produced as the result of chronic i inflammation or of the healing of ulcers or wounds, and differs in no respect ' from the cicatricial fibroid tissue foiined in other parts under similar circuni-