ANKYLOSIS—FIBRO US—OSSEO US. 351 identical with, those already described as being met with in chro!iic rheumatoid arthritis (p. 34G). The chief ditferences are, first, that the wearing away of : the surfaces is very extensive, and the formation of the ossifying cartilaginous i outgrowths round the articulation is very limited, or even entirely wanting; :: and secondly, that true dislocations are common, whereas in rheumatoid arthritis they arc very rare, and when present occur, not from relaxation of : the ligaments, but from pressure of the bony outgroAvths. The diagnosis from : rheumatoid arthritis is made by attention to the following points: First, its ! sudden and unexpected invasion ; secondly, the abundant effusion in the early : stages; thirdly, the fi-equent occurrence of dislocation; fourthly, the occasional : retrogression of the disease; and lastly, the fact that it occurs in conjunction 1 with the other symptoms of locomotor ataxy, for which I must refer the reader I to works on Medicine. The Treatment must be conducted on ordinary j principles, rest being the most important means of preventing the advance of the destructive processes in the articular surfaces. ANKYLOSIS OK STIFF JOINT. Ankylosis is invariably the result of partial or total destruction of a joint : by inflammation, and is one of the modes by which Nature effects its ! repair. It consists in the more or less complete consolidation of the j)arts : around and Avithin the articulation. It is of two kinds : the Incomplete, or Fibrous ; and the Complete, or Osseous. In the Incomplete or Fibrous Ankylosis, the stiffness of the joint may be dependent on four distinct pathological conditions, which may be more or less associated:—1, on thickening and induration of its fibrous capsule ; 2, on the formation of fibroid bands as the result of inflammation within the joint; 3, in consequence of the cartilages and s}Tiovial membrane being in part or wholly removed, and their place being supplied by a fibroid tissue, by which the . articular ends are tied together ; 4, on shortening of the ligaments on the side I of flexion of the joint. The stiffness of the joint may be materially increased ' by the shortened and contracted state of the muscles around the joint. But this is secondary to, and not an essential part of, the ankylosis. Fibrous . ankylosis commonly results from rheumatic or scrofulous arthritis, and is the most favourable result that can be hoped for in many of these affections, especially in the scrofulous. In some cases it arises simply from disuse : the ligaments being shortened, and the limb becoming stiffened in the position in which it has been too long detained. Complete or Osseous Ankylosis is of tAVO kinds. In one, all the soft parts within the joint are destroyed, and the osseous surfaces have coalesced, ■ or are fused together by direct bony union ; this is most commonly seen in ’ the hip (Fig. knee, and elboAv. In the other kind the bones are united 1 partly by fibrous tissue, and partly by arches or bridges of osseous tissue, : throAvn out externally to the articulation, and stretching across from one side to the other. It has been supposed that tliese masses proceed from the ossifica- tion of the ligaments, or even the muscles ; but from the irregularity of their appearance, it is evident that they arc new formations. The true or osseous ankylosis docs not often occur as a conseciuence of scrofulous articular inflam- mation, but is usually the result of pymmic or traumatic inflammation in IKjrsons of a healthy constitution. It not unfrequcntly happens, in old stand-