SPEC I A L ANEVRIl^MS. ^56 so closely resemble chronic or even acute laryn«-itis, Avith impending asphyxia, that there are not a few cases on record in which Sm-geons have performed tracheotomy, on the supposition that they had to do with cases of pure and uncomplicated laryngeal disease; and in other instances this ojieration has been performed with a view of prolonging life, even when the dependence of the laryngeal spasm on aneurism of the aorta has been recognized. Dr, George Johnson has made some important observations on the use of the laryngoscope in the diagnosis of the cause of dyspnoea in aortic aneurism. He says that, in cases Avhere the cause is pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the larynx is seen to be healthy, and the spasm may be seen to occur. If the pressure be sufficient to abolish the function of the nerve, unilateral paralysis will occur, which can be easily ascertained by laryngoscopic examina- tion. The voice in such cases is weak and husky; whereas, in cases in Avhich the pressure is on the trachea, its character is unchanged. When a thoracic aneurism presses the trachea against the spine, the tracheal stridor and the Amice-sound are heard with remarkable distinctness on applying the stetho- scope over the upper dorsal vertebrae—the sound being conducted through the bones, €, Dyspnoea may be dependent on compression of the pulmonary vein by the aneurismal tumour. In cases of this kind there would be considerable lividity of surface, and signs of pulmonary congestion. The dyspnoea of intrathoracic aneurism will often be sufficiently intense to occasion death. It may be mistaken for ordinary asthma; but the diagnosis can usually be effected, by observing that in aneurism the paroxysms of dyspnoea often come on in the day as well as at night, and are greatly increased by change of position, as by placing the patient either upright or recumbent, the tumour thus shifting its point of pressure. It is, as Bellingham has pointed ou t, not influenced by atmospheric changes, and is generally associated with laryngeal stridor or spasm. When such symptoms as these are associated Avith pain and dysphagia, they point very strongly, even in the absence of all auscultatory signs, to the presence of an aneurismal tumour. Aneurisms situated within the concavity or springing from the posterior parts of the aortic arch are those which, either directly by their pressure on the air-tubes or the pulmonary Amins, or indirectly by the influence they exercise on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, are chiefly associated Avith dyspnoea. 3. Dysphagia is a s}unptom of sufficiently frequent occurrence in aneu- risms of the thoracic aorta. Baton has determined its existence in nine out of tAvelve cases. It seldom occurs, however, in the earlier stages of the disease, or AA^hen the aneurism is small, and hence is of much less diagnostic Amlue than dyspnoea. When, hoAvever, it is associated Avith that symj)tom, the combination becomes important; as the co-existence of the two conditions clearly points to the compression of the oesophagus and the air-tubes by a tumour, which other diagnostic signs may proA'e to be aneurismal. It is of importance to bear in mind that in some aneurisms, especially of the descending thoracic aorta, dysphagia may be one of the most marked signs. In such cases as these, stricture of the oesophagus has erroneously been sup- posed to exist, and the patient has even been treated by the introduction of bougies on this supposition—an error of practice that has terminated fatally