305 RICKETS—HISTOLOGY—TREATMENT. is seen bet^Yeen the niialtercd cartilage and the newly-formed bone ; in this the proliferation of the cartilage corpuscles is taking place preliminary to the formation of bone. In rickets this line is much thinner than natural, and irregnlar processes project from it into the cartilage of the epiphysis. The process is wanting in the regularity observed in normal ossification. The proliferating cartilage-cells arc heaped irregularly together, and patches in which calcification of the matrix is taking place, are met with, scattered here and there. The vascular mednllary spaces also which normally penetrate in an even line into the proliferating layer of cartilage show the same want of regularity in their development. Some will be found projecting an eighth of an inch or more in advance of the others into the unaltered cartilage. These spaces are lined, as in normal bone, with osteoblasts, and bone is formed from them, but the osseous tissue thus produced is softer than natural, and cartilage cells unaltered, or merely calcified, may be found imbedded in it. Beneath the periosteum, especially at the line of junction of the epiphyses with the shaft a thick layer of reddish, vascular, spongy bone is found. Micro- scopic examination shows that the osteoblastic layer beneath the periosteum is greatly increased in thickness ; the osteoblasts are numerous, but the osteo- I genic fibres between them are imperfectly developed, and lime salts are but , scantily deposited ; the resulting structure is therefore softer than natural. Treatment.—In the treatment of rickets our first endeavour must be to remove those conditions which are known to cause the disease. The child must i be as much as possible in the open air and should, if possible, be sent into the countiy. It must be put to sleep in a bed by itself to ensure fresh air during the night. If it kicks its clothes off it must be made to sleep in loose flannel 1 drawei-s and a jacket, to avoid the risk of catching cold. A bath should be i given, of tepid salt water in vunter and cold in summer, every morning and : evening, or at least once daily. The diet should be carefully regulated. Before seven months it should consist of nothing but milk ; the mother’s milk is the best if she be in a state of health to suckle her child ; if not, the best cow’s milk must be given, diluted at first with one-quarter of its bulk of warm water and sweetened with a little sugar. Lime-water may be added if the child vomits or passes undigested milk with its stools. After the child has passed the seventh month a small quantity of properly prepared starch food may be added to the diet, but the supply of milk must not bo diminished ; at least two pints should be given daily. Underdone meat pounded into a pulp in a mortar, or the juice of raw meat may also be given. The only remedies that are of any service in rickets are iron and cod- liver oil, the former being the more important. They may be given together —one drachm of steel wine and the same quantity of the oil being taken three times a day immediatdy after food. This treatment must be continued for many months. An occasional dose of rhubarb and soda, or compound liquoi’ice IHjwder may be necessary, and if the tongue be very furred a small quantity of grey powder may sometimes be added. It is of much importance in preventing deformity in these cases not to allow the child to walk or stand much, but to let it take exercise in donkey-panniers or hand-chaii’s, and to support those limljfi that have a special tendency to bend, with properly contructed steel supports, which will be found of much use, provided they are not too heavy, and do not interfere with the action of the muscles. Methodical friction also should l)e employed to stimulate the muscles. VOL. II. X