AJEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS—TREATMENT. 67 '.The bruit is louder, and more superficial, sometimes having* a cooing tone. By pressure on the arteries leading to the tumour these signs arc usually not entirely arrested, though diminished in force, the blood entering it from the neighbouring parts, and in a less direct way. Treatmkxt.—The treatment of aneurism by anastomosis must depend upon the size and situation of the growth. When it is so placed that it can be ligatured or excised, as on the lip, or when small, about the neck, face, or scalp, trunk, or extremities, it should be removed. I always prefer the ligature, applied as will immediately be described, as being the safest, and upon the whole the readiest mode of removing such a tumour. If excision be practised, it is necessary to be very careful to cut widely of the disease ; if it be cut into, fearful hmmorrhage may ensue, which can only be arrested by pressure, and which in several instances has proved fatal. If the disease be very large and extended, as is commonly seen on the scalp, ■or if deeply seated, as in the orbit, neither ligature nor excision of the tumour .can be practised, and it becomes necessary to starve it by cutting off its supply of blood. This may be done either by ligaturing the principal liranches leading to it. or the main trunlc of the limb or part. Simple ligature of the artei'ial branches hading to the tumour has never, I •believe, been followed by success ; at least, in ten recorded instances in which it has been had recoiu’se to, the disease has not in one instance been cured. It has, however, been successfully conjoined by Gribson, in two cases of aneurism by anastomosis of the scalp, with incisions made round the tumour at internals between the principal feeding arteries, Avhich at the same time were tied. • The main truiik leading to the tumour has been ligatured in a considerable number of cases. The brachial and femoral arteries have been tied for ■disease of this kind situated on the extremities, and in some instances with • success; but the carotid is the vessel that has been most frequently deligated, ■in consequence of the tumour being commonly situated on the scalp arid in’ iihe orbit. Wyeth has collected 98 cases in which the carotid was ligatured • for vascular growths above the clavicle, and excluding cases of “intra-orbital I ineurism.” The results have not been encouraging ; in 73 cases in which the oommon caiotid was tied, almost 30 per cent, died directly from the operation, land about .50 per cent, only of those that recovered derived any benefit from the operation. Both common carotid arteries were tied at varying intervals : n 9 cases, of these 2 died, 1 was cured, 2 improved, and the rest recovered, out derived no benefit from the operation. In many of the cases in which one carotid alone was tied, tlie disease, ■being seated upon the scalp, was not cured ; and it was afterwards found inecessaiy to have recourse to ligature of the tumour, to excision, and to other 'uneans of removal ; indeed, when seated upon the scalp, this disease appears :o be more intractable than in any other imrt of the body, owing probably <jO the freedom of the arterial supply from the numerous vessels that ramify r n this region. Here, however, much benefit might be derived after ligature -jf the carotid, by adopting the plan suggested by Gibson of tying the feeding arteries, and making incisions between them down to the tione. Blhe ligature of the carotid has answered better for pulsating tumours in r.he orbit, but few of these are true ciraoid aneurisms. (See Intra-Orbital v.'vneurisms.)