SYMPTOMS OF STONE IN THE FEMALE. 1023 lis researclies, that in the North of Italy, the proportion is 1 to 18 ; and in i?rance, about 1 to 22. At the Univei’sity College lTos])ital we had not had i case of stone in the female for many years until 1800, when three came nnder my care in the course of a few months: and since that period many nave occurred. Vesical calculi in the female arc often nothing more than phosphatic incrus- cations deposited around some foreign body that has, either accidentally or ‘rom depraved motives, been passed up the urethra and has been dropped into he bladder. In this way hair-pins, pieces of bougie, of catheter, or of oencil, will often be found to form the starting point and the nucleus of the .‘oncretion. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone in the female closely resemble those :hat occur in the male, and its presence may usually be easily detected by means of a short and nearly straight sound, or a female catheter. It is often ' * Emulated very closely by the in-itation occasioned by a vascular urethral ,umour, or by an irritable bladder ; but exploration of the viscus will always ,„:letermine the diagnosis. The larger calculi can be felt from the vagina if firm (i| )Dressure be made at the same time above the pubes. Large calculi may be met with in very young female children. I have removed a uric acid calculus incrusted with phosphates, measuring inch : n length by f inch in breadth, from a little girl four years old. The stone vas removed unbroken, by gradual dilatation of the urethra. In the adult they may attain a very large size. I have extracted one from u young woman measuring 8 inches in its long, and G inches in its short nTcumference. Calculus in the female bladder, if allowed to remain unrelieved, will not i^nly occasion the various morbid conditions in the urinary organs that have iDeen described as following the long-continued presence of stone in the male, )Dut will give rise to diseased states peculiar to the female. Thus the stone may be spontaneously discharged through the urethra ; if of small size, with- l>:)ut any bad results following ; but if large, by a process of ulceration, in ■onsequence of which permanent incontinence of urine will remain: or it may ■dough through into the vagina: or lastly, it may offer a serious obstacle during parturition to the descent of the foetal head, when, if it cannot be pushed wside to be dealt with afterwards, it must be cut out, or craniotomy be per- formed. Removal.—A stone may be extracted from the female bladder by one of three methods: 1, by Lithectasy, through a dilated urethra; 2, by Lithotomy; . b by Lithotrity. These different operations cannot be employed iiidiscrimi- I““iaately, but each one is more especially adapted to certain kinds of calculus. 1. Lithectasy may be performed in two ways—either by simply Dilating the Urethra, or else by Incising the 3Iucous Membrane at the same time that “the canal is being expanded. a. Simple Dilatation of the urethra may be effected quickly by the intro- lluction of a three-bladcd dilator, which is rapidly screwed up. In tliis way, rn a few minutes the canal may be easily dilated sutficiently to allow the ntroduction of a pair of forceps, and the extraction of a calculus of moderate ‘ iize. Home Hurgeons prefer a slow process of dilatation, contiuucd through nany hours, by means of a sponge-tent; but this appears to me to possess no advantage over the more rapid expansion, and has the very decided disadvan-