312 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. disease. For the purpose of classification, sarcomata of bone are divided, first into ceniml, springing from the cancellous tissue or the medullary canal, and periosteal, sulperiosteal or periptheral, arising on the surface of the compact bone ; secondly, they, are subdivided according to the structure of thegiwth, into spmdle-celled, round-celled, mixed sjjindle- and round-celled and myeloid. Gross makes a separate division for osteoid or ossifying sarcoma, and separates carti- laginous tumours entirely, placing them in another group. Butlin classes ossifying sarcomata and chondro-sarcoma, according to the form of the cells (spindle, round, or mixed,) met with in the gi’owing margin of the tumour. The microscopic structure of these various forms of sar- coma has been already described in the Chapter on Tumours (Vol. L, p. 997). Gross gives the following as the relative frequency of the different forms of sarcoma among the 165 cases affecting the long bones which formed the basis of his paper. Central myeloid sarcoma, 70 ; periosteal ossifying sarcoma, 45 ; central spindle- celled sarcoma, 16 ; periosteal round- celled sarcoma, 13 ; central round-celled sarcoma, 12 ; periosteal spindle-celled sarcoma, 9. Of all forms of sarcoma, out of 149 cases, 87 occurred in males and 62 in females ; and of 147 in which the age was ascertained, 110 ocemu-ed before 30. The central spindle-celled sarcoma was the only form that Gross found to occur more frequently after 30 than before. In almost half the cases Fig. 515.—Cells from Spinclle-cellecl Sarcoma Tumoiu- of Scapula : Fii'st recm-rence. Fig. 517.—Microscopic Characters of the Tumour in its second Recur- rence. Multinucleated Jlyeloid Cells. the disease was attributed to injury. The various long bones were affected m the following order : femur, 67 ; tibia, 46 ; humerus, 25 ; fibula, 13 ; ulna, / ; radius, 6 ; ulna and radius, 1. The following table, showing the malio^aucy of the various forms of sarcoma affecting the long bones, is so important that I reproduce it entire.