io82 DISEASES OF THE U RET Hit A. ill occasionally. If there is mueh pain, blood may be taken from the temple by cupping or leeches. Inflammation of the Nose, attended by profuse suppuration, is a com- plication that I have more than once had occasion to observe in gonorrha-ii. The swelling of the organ is considerable, the tenderness great, and the dis- charge abundant; a condition, indeed, of the Schneiderian membrane that seems analogous to the inflammation of the conjunctiva just describecL The Treatment that I have found to succeed best, consists in fomentations, followed by astringent lotions or injections. Gonorrhoea of the Hectum has been met with in rare cases. In women it may be the result of infection from vaginal discharge, but in men it is usually the result of unnatural vice. The symptoms are pain in the bowel, with a thick muco-purulent discharge. The Treatment consists in injections of acetate of lead and opium. Gonorrhoeal Bihenmatism principally occurs in young and otherwise healthy persons. The exact nature of the disease is veiy uncertain. It is supposed by many to be a form of blood-poisoning analogous to pymmia. Berkeley Hill states that his observations lead him to believe that the disease is met with chiefly in gouty or rheumatic subjects. If the patient have not previously suffered from these affections, a family history indicating a tendency to them will usually be found. In patients who are distinctly rheumatic or gouty, Hutchinson states that any urethral discharge, whether specific or not, may give rise to symptoms identical with those of gonorrhoeal rheumatism. The affection is more common in men than in women, and seldom sets in till the third week after the commencement of the discharge, though it may occur as late as the second month. The disease may assume various forms. It may commence insidiously with pain in the joints, quickly followed by considerable effusion. Several joints may be affected, but the knee is attacked with far gi’eater frequency than any other articulation. The febrile disturbance may be slight. The pain and swelling last usually for some weeks, and gradually subside ;.but relapses are common. In other cases the course of the affection more closely resembles that of acute arthritis ; the pain is intense, and the ligaments are early affected. The swelling assumes an oval form, effusion into the articular cavity being slight, or even wanting. The constitutional dis- turbance is severe. This variety most commonly ends in ankylosis. In another form occasionally met with, pain forms the chief symptom, without swelling or interference with movement. Other structiues beside the joints may be affected, as the fascim, the sheaths of tendons, bursm, and occasionally the nerves. Oonorrhceal sclerotitis, as afready mentioned, is always connected with rheu- matism, and orchitis may arise from the same cause. Gonoiuhoeal may be distinguished fr’om simple acute rheumatism by the attack being less severe, by the affection usually being limited to two or three joints, and often to the knee only, and by the absence of the profuse sweating and the cream} - white tongue. The prognosis is, as a rule, good. Suppuration may occasion- ally take place, and the disease then merges into that to be immediately described, gonorrhoeal pyaemia. Ankylosis is, however, very common, especiall} in the arthritic form. This arises not so much from destruction of the carti- lages, but from shortening and contraction of the inflamed capsule of the joint as recovery takes place. This form of ankylosis is practically incurable. Treatment.—The first essential point of treatment is to check the urethral