^54 SPECIAL ANEUmSAIS, condition. When the nnenrisin Jirises ii-oin tlie root of the. aorta, and more especially when it is intrapericardial, it is usually of small size, and its pres- sure-ellects will he little obvious. When the aneurism arises from the termi- nation of the arch, or the descendhi(j aorta, it may often attain a considerable i development without causing any very obvious ])ressure-effects. Aneurisms : that are situated within the concaviUj of the arch necessarily give rise to very ' severe effects, by the compression they must exercise upon some one or other j of the very important structures that are included within the aortic arch. | hen the anterior part of the aorta is affected, the aneurism may attain a ! ^ ery considerable bulk, even coming forward so as to project and pulsate between the intercostal spaces, without any very noticeable pressure-effects | Fig. 463.—Erosion of Intervertebral Fig. 464.—Aneurism of Descending Aorta, eroding and Substance by a small Aneurism of De- traversing Vertebra, scending Aorta iiressing backwards. being induced. But when the posterior ivall of the artery is the seat of the disease, then severe symptoms are early set up by the compression and erosion of the structures Ijdng contiguous to the artery and along the spine (Fig. 403). When the upper part of the aortic arch is the seat of aneurism, a peculiar train of cerebral symptoms, such as vertigo, insensibility, or defective vision, may be induced by its interference with the circulation through the carotids. The pressure-effects that need chiefly engage our attention, are :—1, Pain, 2, Dyspnoea; 3, Dysphagia; and 4, (Edema. 1. Pain is usually one of the earliest symptoms of intrathoracic aneurism, and is frequently of great value in a diagnostic point of view, as it is often most marked when the other symptoms are the least developed. It is generally more severe in sacculated than in fusiform aneurisms, and when the posterior rather than the anterior aspect of the vessel is the seat of disease. The pain is of two distinct kinds. The first kind is lancinating, intermittent, and neuralgic in its character, evidently dependent upon pressure on the spinal or sympathetic nerves. This pain is seated chiefly on the left side, and shoots up the side of the head and face, along the upper arm to the elbow, along the intercosto-humeral nerve, through the chest, or between the scapulaa. The second form of pain occurs usually at a later stage of the disease, is continuous,