DTSEAHES OF BLOOD YEEEELH. 72 may occur, as ifc cncctually removes them without risk of lucmorrliagc, and leaves a sore tliat very readily cicatrizes. The ligature requires to be applied in different ways, according to the size and situation of the tumour. In all cases, the best material is firm, round, compressed whip-cord. This should be tied as tightly as possible, and knotted securely, so that there may be no chance of any part of the tumour escaping complete and immediate strangulation. It is well, if possible, not to include in the noose any healthy skin, but to snip across with a pair of scissors that portion of integument which intervenes between the cords that are tied together ; at the same time, care must be taken to pass the ligatures well beyond the limits of the disease. When the tumour is small, an ordinary double ligature may be passed across its base, by means of a common suture-needle ; and, the noose being cut and the thread tied on each side, strangulation will be effected. When it is of larger size, and of round shape, the most convenient plan of strangulating the tumour is that recommended by Liston. It consists in passing, by means of Fig. 426.—Diagi-am of the Application of Nsevus-neetUes. tied. long nsevus-needles, fixed in wooden handles, and having their eyes near their points, double whip-cord ligatures in opposite directions across the tumour ; then cutting through the nooses, and tying together the contiguous ends of the ligatures until the whole of the growth is encircled and strangled by them. In doing this, a few precautions are necessary : thus, the first n^vus-needle should be passed across the tmnour unarmed (Fig. 426), and used to raise up the growth somewhat from the subjacent parts. The second needle, armed as represented in the diagram (Fig. 426), carrying the whip-cord ligature by means of a piece of suture-silk, should be passed across the tumour in the opposite direction to, but underneath, the first needle ; the armed needle being withdravm, the ligature is carried across ; and the first one, having been armed in the same way, carries its noose through the tumour as it is drawn out. The two nooses having then been cut, au assistant must seize, but not draw upon, six of the ligature ends ; the Surgeon, then, having divided