826 SPECIAL IlERNLE. Treatment.—The treatment of ventral hernia must consist in supportinfr the tumour by means of a broad belt and properly constructed pad. Should it become strangulated, Avhich I believe very rarely happens, owing to the width of the neck of the sac, the operation must be performed in the same way as for umbilical rupture, care being taken to divide cautiously the integuments, any aponeurotic investments, and the peritoneal sac if necessary ; the stricture should always be divided upwards. A rare kind of ventral rupture has been described by Guthrie, in which, after a blow, the abdominal wall has been absorbed or yielded to a considerable extent, forming a broad and expanded tumour, without any distinct neck or pedicle. Sometimes this tumour may attain an immense size, stretching perhajjs down to the knees, and containing even the gravid uterus. I PELVIC HEENIiE. Obtueator Hernia.—This rare form of hernia, in which the protrusion of intestine takes place through the thyroid foramen, was first noticed by Garengeot, ; in the early part of the eighteenth century; and, since that time, about eighty ; ( cases have been recorded. Its existence has rarely been ascertained till after f death ; in fact, Lawrence seems to doubt the possibility of the recognition of I the complaint during life, in consequence of the small size which the tumoiu’ ' | attains, and its being covered in and compressed under the pectineus muscle. ' But several cases are on record in which it was recognized during life. It j , generally occurs in persons above the age of fifty ; in consequence, according i ; to Gurlt, of the participation by the muscular structures passing through the ' : thyroid foramen in the general wasting of tissue which occurs at that time of i life. Pimbet, who has collected the records of all the published cases up to Mi 1882, states that in 73, in which the sex was mentioned, 65 were women and ! h 8 men. j Symptoms.—In obturator hernia, the intestine descends through the thyroid j foramen ; the neck of the sac thus lies behind the horizontal ramus of the j pubes. The symptoms have in some cases sufficiently resembled those of j" strangulated femoral hernia to lead able Surgeons to suppose they had to deal j with the latter affection. In addition, however, to the ordinary symptoms of j: strangulation, there are two special signs which may lead to the suspicion of | • the existence of this hernia, if not to its positive diagnosis. The first of these ] is a slight fulness and hardness in the upper part of the thigh to the inner side j : of the femoral vessels, often very indistinct, yet giving to the surface of the i limb a different outline from that which is observed on the other side. The j other is, pain extending down the inner side of the thigh towards the knee; | (i or even, as in a case referred to by Birkett, as far as the great toe. This pain | has been noticed in a large number of the recorded cases, and is due to the j pressure of the hernia on the obturator nerve : it may also be increased by ; pressure with the hand over the thyi-oid foramen, and, according to Pimbet, by forced external rotation of the limb. It does not extend to the testis; but it may, as happened in a case which I have seen, affect the thigh to such an extent that the patient, to relieve it, flexes the limb on the • abdomen. Roser has recommended, as a means of diagnosis, an examination of the interior of the pelvis, per rectum in the male, and ppr vagvnam in the j f female. Most reliance, however, is to be placed on the symptoms which I i have described.