GANGLION—TENOSYNOVITIS. 485 increases in size, it often gives rise to painful sensations in the parts below it, by pressing upon the neighbouring nerves ; thus, a ganglion at the back of the wrist often produces pain and weakness in the hand, by compressing some of the branches of the radial or ulnar nerve which are stretched over it. Ganglion is by far the most common of all the tumours that occur on the hand. In all cases of oval or rounded, smooth, clastic tumour on the hand or fingers, whether painless or neuralgic, the first point to determine is whether it be ganglion or not; but ganglion should always be suspected. A small, hard, and painful ganglion, varying in size from a pin’s head to a cheny-stone, is met with in connection with the flexor tendons of the fingers, usually on the proximal phalanx. If it interferes seriously with the use of the fintrei-s, it mav be dissected out. The mode of origin of a simple ganglion is very doubtful. Paget looks upon it as a cystic transformation of the cells enclosed in the fringe-like processes of the sjmovial membrane lining the sheath of the tendon. BiUroth believes it commences as a pouch-like protrusion from the sheath, the neck of which becomes gradually narrowed till at last a separate cyst is formed lying- on the sheath, but not communicating with it. There is no real evidence in support of either of these views. Treatment.—When the ganglion is small, as on the back of the wrist, it may commonly be got rid of by being ruptured by forcible pressure with the thumb, or by a blow with the back of a book, or by being tightly compressed, by means of a coin wrapped up in a piece of lint, and firmly straj)ped upon the swelling. If it do not disappear in this way, the best plan is to puncture it subcutaneously by means of a vahnilar opening, to squeeze out its contents, scarify the interior of the cyst, and employ pressure. If the ganglion give rise to much pain and weakness, and cannot be made to disappear by the use of the means just indicated, it may usually be very conveniently and safely obliterated by passing a seton of two threads through it, dressing it aiiti- septically, and leaving it in for four or five days, until sufficient inflammation has been induced for the obliteration of the cyst. Should these means fail, it may be dissected out, if it be thought advisable to have recourse to this somewhat severe procedure, which is attended with some risk of in- flammation extending up the sheath of the tendon. I have, however, on several occasions performed this operation, without any troublesome conse- quences ensuing. IXFL.VMMATION OF THE Sheaths of Tendons—Tenosynovitis.—This is occasionally met with as the result of strains and twists of the hand, about the wrist, of the extensor tendons, or the long head of the biceps. It is very common in the extensor muscles of the thumb from feathering the oar in rowing. In this affection there is swelling of a puffy character, with tenderness when the part is pressed on or moved: and usually a peculiar fine crackling sensa- tion is communicated to the Surgeon’s hand when he examines the affected part. The crackling is especially marked in cases in which the inflammation and effusion have become chronic, when the disease appears to partake of the nature of a diffused ganglion. Treatment.—The treatment, when the disease is acute, consists in the application of gentle pressure by means of a bandage, with rest of the jiart; when it has aasumed a chronic character, the application of blisters and the mercury and ammoniacum plaster will be found most useful.