53S DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK, india-rubber bag- Avith a blunt nozzle, and is used thus : the nozzle is inserted into one nostril, and both nostrils are then S(jueezed between the lintrer and thumb, so as efficiently to close tlie anterior nares ; the patient then takes a small quantity of Avater into the mouth and holds it till directed to swallow ; at the moment he swalloAVS the bag is squeezed, and the upper part of the pharynx aboA^e the soft palate is thus distended Avith air, and as at the same time the hiUstacliian tubes are opened by the act, of swalloAA^ing, the air rushes into the cavity of the tympanum. While this is being done the Surgeon connects his car with that of the patient by means of an india-rubber tube about three feet in length Avith an ear-piece at each end. He thus hears distinctly the effect produced by the distension of the caA'ityof the tympanum. The caAuty of the tympanum can usually be distended equally Avell if the patient closes the mouth and pinches the nostrils, and then makes a forced effort of expiration. The folloAving are the chief facts learned from this mode of iiiA’-estigation. In health, the Surgeon hears the air enter the tympanum and impinge on the membrane with a sharp click, sounding to the patient as a loud crack. If the Eustachian tube is closed by SAAnlling or plugged AA'ith inspissated pus or mucus also filling the tympanum, this Avill be entirely wanting. If the caAuty is filled with tenacious mucus or muco-pmailent fluid, a crackling bubbling sound will be heard both by the Surgeon and the patient as the air enters the cavity. If the membrane is perforated and the Eustachian tube pervious, the air will be heard passing through the aperture. The Eustachian Catheter is useful in treatment rather than in diagnosis. It consists of a small metal or Auilcanite tube about six inches in length with a slight curve at one end and expanded at the other to receive the nozzle of the small india-rubber bag used for injecting fluids or air. On the large end is a ring to shoAV the position of the point while it is in the nose. It is thus passed : the conca-vity of the curve being turned towards the floor of the nasal fossa, so that the point may not hitch against the tm-binate bones, the catheter is passed backwards through the nose till it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx. It is then AAdthdrawn about half an inch and its j)oint directed outAvards and slightly upwards against the orifice of the Eustachian tube. The Surgeon having his ear connected with that of the patient by the india-rubber tube before described, can then ascertain whether the catheter is in the tube or not by blowing some air tlirough it from a small india-rubber bag. In order to ascertain the degree of hearing, a watch or tuning fork is commonly used. The distance from the ear at which the ticking of the watch can be heard is generally taken as the indication of the degree of deafiiess. If the vibrating tuning fork or the watch be pressed against the vertex, in health it is heard equally AveU in the two ears ; if one meatus or one Eustachian tube be blocked, the sound will be heard more loudly in the affected ear ; if the sound cannot be heard with the instrument in this position, or is heard very imperfectly, the deafness is due to disease of the nei’Amus apparatus of the ear. The diseases of the middle ear are commonly classed under the following headings : Simple Mucous Catarrh and Purulent Catarrh, and each of these is divided into acute and chronic. Simple Acute Catarrh is usually associated Avith catairhal affections of the pharynx, and is most common in children. It is characterized by acute hyperjemia and SAvelling of the mucous membrane with increased secretion of mucus. Difficulty of hearing is an early symptom, and in some cases there is 5 i > L