332 DISEASES OF JOINTS. I process be veiy acute, the inflammatory products in the cancellous spaces may break down into pus before the bony trabecula) have been completely absorbed, and thus portions of the cancellous bone may be cut off from their nutrition and peiish foiming scc|uestia (caries necrotica). In other cases the inflammation in the cancellous spaces may spread rapidly, and diffuse osteomyelitis be set up. This is especially prone to happen when the original inflammation in the joint is septic or infective in character. Causes and Varieties of Acute Arthritis. — Acute arthritis arises from many different causes, and the course of the disease varies someAvhat according to its mode of origin. The following are the chief fomis of the disease met with in practice. Acute Traumatic Arthritis, or Septic Arthritis.—This arises as a consequence of a penetrating wound of a joint, with admission of impure air and subsequent decomposition of the discharges. It rapidly terminates in suppuration, and in many cases leads to complete destruction of the articula- tion. It has been already fully described with Injuries of Joints (Vol. I., p. 489). Acute Infective Arthritis.—Acute inflammation of one or more joints is a common local effect of more than one general infective process. It is met with in pymmia arising from wounds, in puerperal fever, scarlet fever, small pox, and sometimes after typhoid fever. These are probably closely allied if not identical con- ditions, the general infection taking place from the placental surface in puerperal fever, from the ulcerated throat in scarlet fever, from the pustules of small pox, and from the ulcers in the intestines in typhoid fever, just as, in ordinary pygemia, it takes place from the unhealthy wound. Pyaemic arthritis begins suddenly, with very acute superficial pain. It differs fi’om many other forms of acute arthritis in the rapid effusion into the joint which occurs at the commencement of the attack. It thus resembles simple acute synovitis in giving rise to a swelling, which at first assumes the outline of the distended synovial membrane. If the patient die at this stage, the joint will be found to have undergone but little change, the synovial membrane is injected, and the fringes swollen, and the cavity of the articula- tion contains a quantity of thin pus mixed with synovia. If the patient survive, however, more than a few days after the joint has become affected, the inflammation extends to the ligaments, destruction of the cartilages com- mences, and the case then runs the ordinary course of acute arthritis. It is sometimes possible to arrest the progress of the inflammation before the destructive changes set in, by early opening, free drainage and antiseptic treat- ment, but even then considerable thickening and contraction of the capsule usually results, leaving the joint more or less fixed. If the joint be opened Fig. 528.—Interior of Knee disorganized by Acute Pyseinic Inflammation. 1 ] i i