FORMATION OF ABSCESS IN CARIES OF SPINE. 423 ) I It must not be supposed that abscess necessarily follows in all cases. In “hildren especially we often meet with groat excurvation without any suppura- i ,ion. In adults it is very rare to see angular curvature without the formation j j )f ail abscess. The exact causes that determine the formation of pus are not 1} I lertain in all cases. In many it is undoubtedly due to the irritation caused ' )y the friction of the diseased surlixces against each other, and proper treat- nent adopted early will do much to prevent it. Suppuration is also more ikely to occur when the patient is poorly fed and exposed to general un- ivgienic sniTOundings. As cases in which abscess does not form usually recover, we have but little lefinite knowledge as to the exact nature of the disease, whether it is tt'lbercular or not. On the other hand, the majority of cases in which death , akes place are found to be associated with the presence of tubercle in the li.seased bones. It has been assumed, therefore, that the cases of angular ^ urvature without suppuration are due to simple inflammation, probably of Sraumatic origin, while those with suppuration are tubercular, but the evidence 5 not sufficient to justify an absolute statement to this effect. In cases which recover without suppuration the diseased bodies become used together into a single mass, across which bridges of osseous tissue are ometimes thrown out, so as to strengthen the otherwise weakened spine, ndeed, this ankylosis and fusion of the bodies of the diseased vertebrae may -11 e looked upon as the natural mode of cure of angular curvature of the spine ; y ue only way in which it can take place when once the disease has advanced to Iny considerable extent. AMien pus fonns in connection with diseased spine, the situation and course f the abscess depend mainly upon the part of the spine affected ; thus, for tll'istance, when the cervical vertebrae are diseased, the abscess will come for- 0 ards behind the pharynx, and may occasionally extend under the sterno- lastoid muscle to the side of the neck, where it opens ; sometimes, though :ery rarely, it passes into the chest, and in other cases into the axiUa. When the disease is seated in the upper or middle dorsal spine, the abscess most ommonly passes backwards between the posterior ends of the ribs, forming a ■ursal abscess. In some cases, however, in which the middle dorsal vertebrae are iseased the abscess may extend downwards. When it takes this direction it lost commonly passes under the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and thus liters the sheath of the psoas muscle and takes the course to be described umediately. In rare cases it may pass between the pillars of the diaplu’agm • ith the aorta and follow the large vessels in the subperitoneal tissue super- cial to the fascia of the psoas an iliacus, forming and accumulation filling the iac fossa and pointing above Poupart’s ligament, or it may extend downwards ito the pelvis and escape with the gluteal artery through the great sciatic otch, giving rise to a large abscess in the gluteal region. It is remakable lat in caries of the dorsal vertebrae the pus does not tend to encroach on the lest or the pleural cavity. AVhen the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebrae •e diseased the pus enters the sheath of the psoas or the substance of the niscle, thus constituting the common affection termed Psoas Abscess. A soas abscess follows the course of the muscle from which it derives its name. ^| t is firmly bound down in front by the fascia covering that muscle and the j^iacus, which is usually considerably thickened and is never perforated by the " us. The psoas muscle is usually extensively destroyed. The pus is prevented