DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 720 superficially seated, lax-walled cyst; nothin<,nsmore difficult than to recognize it Avhen tense and deejdy seated toAvards the under surface of the mammary gland (Fig. 771); for, the whole thickness of the gland intervening between the cyst and the finger, the sense of elasticity is lost and a solid feel communicated, which may readily mislead even the most experienced Surgeon. Whenever the Surgeon has any doubt about the existence of fluid in a tumour of the breast, he should introduce an exploring trochar ; when, if the disease be cystic, the fluid will be discharged. If the tumour prove to be solid, no ill consequences will result from the simple puncture. Several instances have occurred to me iu which, finm the want of this simple precaution, very excellent Surgeons have condemned as cancerous, tumours of the breast, Avhich proved to be cystic. The diagnosis of the retention-cyst from the simple serous cyst is not possible unless fluid can be squeezed from the nipple, a condition which of course cannot occur in the serous cyst. If this sign be Avanting, the nature of the disease may be recognized in most cases by the character of the fluid. The true hydatid cyst is so rare that it may be practically excluded in making the diagnosis. It may be recognized by the character of the fluid withdraAvn on puncture. This is clear, containing merely the faintest trace of albumen, and has a specific gravity of 1003 to 1004. Hooklets may possibly be found in it. Without puncture these cysts cannot be distinguished from the other forms. Treatment.—The treatment of cysts of the breast varies according to their number and size and the presence or absence of intracystic growths. Small multiple retention-cysts which can be emptied through the nipple sometimes require no farther treatment. Belladonna or some form of counter-irritation may be applied externally in the hope of arresting the abnormal secretion, but these means are seldom of much use. If the cyst is larger and cannot be emptied by pressure, the fluid contents may be let out by puncturing with a small trochar ; but a cure cannot usually be effected in this way, as the fluid re-accumulates. Occasionally it will suppurate spontaneously, and is thus got rid of. If the tumour be single, it may usually be cm’ed by opening it by a small incision, Aviping it out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc or tincture of iodine, and inserting a drainage-tube under an antiseptic dressing for a few days. If it seem to be surrounded by indurated mammary tissue, it is often best to dissect it out and to remove it with the lobule of the mamma to which it is attached. On doing this it Avill often be found that the cyst is not single as was at first supposed, but that several smaller sacs are present Avhich have been concealed by the larger one. If the cyst contain intracystic growths, it should be completely removed Avith the neighbouring part of the mammary gland. If the cysts are multiple they must be treated according to circumstances. If there are but two or three they may be treated as if single, but if very numerous there is nothing to be done but to remove the breast if operative interference is demanded. Lipoma.—Fatty tumours have occasionally been met A\dth iu close proximity to the mamma, so as to simulate a tumour of the gland itself. A little careful examination will usually enable the Surgeon to ascertain that the gland is not implicated. The Treatment of these tumours presents nothing peculiar. Fibroma.—Pure fibroma of the mamma is A'ery rare. One case only has