DISEASES OF JOINTS. 340 walking if a joint in the lower limb is affeeted. The pain is increased after any extra exertion, and may then he severe enough to oblige the patient to rest for a day or two, when the symptoms usually subside. If the joint Ije examined during this stage, there will usually be found some slight limitation of movement, complete extension or flexion causing pain. If the joint be superficial, as the knee, elbow, or ankle, it will be seen to Ije swollen. The natural hollows are less clearly marked than in health, or even completely obliterated. The swelling at this stage takes the form of the distended synovial cavity, as in synovitis with effusion, but it does not give the same sense of fluctuation, being semi-elastic and pulpy. Sometimes, however, it is so soft that it is readily mistaken for fluid, even by the experienced hand. In the knee it may be distinguished by observing that, though the patella is raised, it cannot be pushed down with a distinct concussion on the femur, as in synovitis with effusion. As the disease advances the joint becomes more enlarged, and as the ligaments become implicated the swelling loses the out- line of the synovial membrane and assumes a more rounded form, the bony prominences being effaced by a uniform, doughy, semi-elastic or pulpy swelling. The integuments covering it preserve their white colour. There is usually hut little pain felt Avhen the limb is at rest, but motion becomes more and more painful, till it is no longer possible to use the limb. The position assumed by the hmb at this time is that in which the patient has most ease, viz., that of semi-flexion, and with this there is a considerable degree of stiffness and rigidity. In this stage the inflammation commonly extends to the periosteum covering the articular ends, which become slightly enlarged by deposit of new bone from osteoplastic periostitis. The degree to which the articular ends are enlarged is very difficult to estimate, as they are usually considerably obscured by the swelling of the surrounding soft parts, and in consequence of the wasting of the muscles from disease, the articula- tion appears more swollen than it really is. If the disease continues to progress, starting of the limb sets in at night, a symptom which is generally regarded as indicating that destructive changes are taking place in the cartilages. After these symptoms have persisted for a varying time the swelling becomes more prominent at one part, fluctuation becomes manifest, and the skin is reddened. Finally, if not anticipated by surgical interference, the abscess bursts, discharging unhealthy pus mixed with cui’dy masses. Before this takes place it may reach a considerable size and burrow for some distance from the articulation. The abscess does not necessarily occupy the whole cavity of the joint, for, as will be pointed out in describing the pathology of the disease, no cavity may exist by the time the abscess forms, the whole articular space being filled up with a mass of unhealthy gi'anulation- tissue, in one part only of which the suppuration may have taken place. In other cases the abscess may form outside the joint, superficial to the ligaments. After the abscess has burst, its cavity may gradually contract and heal, but more commonly a sinuous track is left leading to the diseased joint. In other cases, especially if the abscess but incompletely empties itself, decom- position of the discharges sets in, the granulation-tissue filling the cavity of the joint may rapidly break down, and the disease then assumes the form of acute septic arthritis (p. 489, Yol. I.), with severe pain and rapid destruction of such cartilage as may have remained undestroyed at the time the chronic abscess burst. The limb swells and becomes ocdematous, and other abscesses form I i • 1 i f . j ! I i