DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 26 largo a piece as possible being removed. As the internal maxillaiy artery and a plexus of veins whicli lie in the fat may cause troublesome ha3morr)iage, the dissection should be carried out with a blunt instrument. After the operation the malar bone is replaced and secured by sutures. In some of the cases in which the operation has been performed considerable stilfness of the jaw has been left. Other methods also, including partial resection and replacement of the upper jaw, have been recommended. Third or Inferior Maxillary Division of the Fifth.—The three chief divisions of this nerve, the lingual, inferior dental, and auriculo-tem- poral, have all been submitted to operative treatment in neuralgia. The lingual is easily reached from within the mouth. It runs obliquely forwards to the side of the tongue from a point immediately internal to the last molar tooth. It is covered only by the mucous membrane, and forms a distinct ridge if the tongue be pulled forcibly outwards and to the opposite side. In this situation, the nerve can readily be seized and stretched by means of a blunt hook forced through the mucous membrane, the tongue being forcibly drawn to the opposite side while the nerve is being pulled upon. Section can be made by putting the nerve on the stretch, and passing a curved bistoury to the inner side of it opposite the last molar tooth, and then cutting towards the jaw. To remove a piece, a longitudinal incision should be made through the mucous membrane in the line of the nerve, which may then be drawn out with a blunt hook. The mental Iranch of the inferior dental is easily reached, as it emerges from the dental canal. The foramen is situated directly below the interval between the bicuspid teeth. The nerve can be stretched subcutaneously by making a puncture in the skin opposite the first bicuspid at such a level as not to penetrate the mouth. A blunt hook is inserted through this, and forcibly scraped along the bone across the line of the nerve. The lip and chin must be pulled inwards while the nerve is stretched. The nerve may also be exposed, and a piece cut out if desired by a small incision in the same situation. The main trimh of the inferior dental nerve has in some cases of intense and persistent neuralgia been divided by dissecting up a flap over the ramus of the lower jaw, applying a trephine to the bone so exposed, and cutting out a portion of it over that part where the nerve enters the dental canal, which is thus laid bare ; when a portion of the nerve may be excised, by being raised on a director, and snipped away with scissors. The Auriculo-temporal Nerve can be reached only where it crosses the root of the zygoma after emerging from above the parotid gland. It lies immedi- ately behind the temporal artery. In this situation it can be exposed by a small incision parallel to its course, and immediately in front of the tragus, care being taken to avoid the artery. Subcutaneous stretching had better not be attempted for fear of injuring the temporal artery. The value of these operations is still somewhat doubtful. l\Iany cases of permanent cure have been reeorded, and temporary relief lasting for weeks or months very commonly results. No hesitation need therefore be felt in undertaking the less serious proceedings, such as subcutaneous stretching or exposure and division of the terminal branches. The more extensive opera- tions, such as exposing the superior maxillaiy in the spheno-maxillary fossa,