I 492 DEFORMITIES. Causes.—These various kinds of deformity, as has already jjeeii stated, usually commence in girls about the age of puberty ; at a time of life when the tonicity of the muscular system not unfi-equently becomes lessened by the occurrence of aiimmia and those states of impaired health that so frequently attend the establishment of the uterine function ; and before the osseous and ligamentous structures of the body are fully developed. At this period of life, also, it frequently happens that the spine becomes rather suddenly elongated by a rapid increase in growth; or that it becomes overweighted by the body developing, and the shoulders and bust becoming unduly stout and expanded. Indeed, so frequent is the occurrence of a certain degree of lateral curvature of the spine from these various causes, about the age of puberty in girls, that few escape a tendency to deviation ; of so slight a kind, however, as not to admit of recognition as a disease. But if this tendency be increased by injurious habits, amongst which are all one-sided postures in which the body is twisted, as in playing certain games, some musical instruments, or in leaning over a table in drawing and writing, the slight deviation may rapidly increase until it assume the true characters of lateral curvature. Girls who grow too rapidly are especially predisposed to lateral curvature. Their strength does not keep pace with their growth. The feet, ankles, or knees often give way, and the spine inclines to one side. But lateral curvature is common also in girls of a totally different make. Yoimg women of a short and thick build, in whom the bust and shoulders become largely and early developed, are very liable to lateral curvature. In them too great a weight is tln’own on the spine before its osseous and ligamentous structures are suffi- ciently developed and solidified to enable it to support this burden. I do not think that there is any evidence to show that this is either a strumous or a rickety affection; indeed, so far as my observation goes, I should certainly say that strumous girls are less liable to the disease than those of a nervous temperament; and it occurs at an age at which rickets is practically unknown. Amongst the more common predisposing causes must undoubtedly be reckoned the sedentary occupations and enervating habits commonly encouraged in girls in the wealthier ranks of life, which, by preventing due muscular development, at the same time that they induce a general loss of tone in the system, may directly occasion the disease. In gromng lads, lateral curvature may be produced by a habitually maintained faulty position, as in sitting too long at the desk, or in following certain occupations. An inequality in the focal length of the vision of the two eyes is another very common predisposing cause of lateral curvature, the patient habitually twist- ing the body forwai-d on the side of the defective eye, so as to endeavour to accommodate the vision of it to that of the stronger one. That the real cause i of lateral curvatm’e of the spine is to be found in faulty habits of life, and not in sex, is evidenced by the rarity of the affection amongst girls of the labouring class, as compared with its frequency amongst those of the wealthier ordei's of society. The causes of the antero-posterior curves are usually to be found in some faulty habits of the patient; either giving rise to an habitual stoop, and thus laying the foundation for kyphosis, or throwing too great a weight on the loins, and thus giving rise to lordosis. Myopia and other impairments of vision causing the person so affected to stoop, in order to bring the page nearer the