SPEC I A L A iVECJ^/SJlfS. 196 2 i * i consider the hicb of the ligature of the hrachio-cephalic having been attempted and in consequence of unforeseen and insurmountable diflicidties left uncon- cluded ill so large a proportion as one-fifth of the cases, and these in the hands of Surgeons who were as well able as any to accomplish whatever was in the power of operative surgery to do, we may well hesitate upon the difficulties that beset the operation itself, before proceeding to the consideration of its results. The difficulties to which I allude do not consist merely in the position and anatomical relations of the vessel, but rather in the condition in which the artery and the adjacent structures may be found after the vessel is exposed. Thus, in Porter’s case, the aneurism, which was a large one, occupied the whole of the inferior posterior triangle of the neck, being nearly six inches broad ; as no pulsation was traceable in the vessels beyond the aneurism, it was useless to attempt ligature on the distal side. On exposing the brachio-cephalic, that vessel was found to be diseased, and it was not thought desirable to pass the ligature round it. In consequence of the exposure of the artery, however, the pulsation in the tnmour gradually diminished, and at last ceased entirely, its bulk also becoming less. In Key’s case, in which it was impracticable to pass the ligature, it was found after death that the brachio-cephalic was diseased, being dilated im- mediately after its origin into an oblong tumour, which occupied the whole j of the artery. It is remarkable that in this case, as in Porter’s, inflammation seems to have taken place in the artery in consequence of the necessary handling to which it was subjected, and that the pulsation in the sac con- sequently diminished. The difficulties of the operation are in themselves of serious magnitude ; arising from the depth of the vessel, from its proximity to the centre of the circulation, and fi.*om the neighbourhood of large veins, which may become turgid, and a wound of which not only obscures the line of incision with venous blood, but induces a risk of the entrance of air into the circulation. The trunk of the artery lies behind the sterno-clavicular articulation and the upper part of the sternum, and bifurcates at the level of the upper border of thcj clavicle. In front of it are the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and it is crossed near its upper part by the right inferior thyroid vein, and lower' down by the left innominate. To the right side is the right innominate vein.. The pneumogastric nerve is behind and to the outer side, not being in closet relation Avith the artery. Behind the A’essel are, at first the trachea, then the|i. pleura, the trachea being now internal to the artery. The artery may bell reached in the dead body by an incision starting from the sterno-claviculariji'f: articulation, and carried upwards for about three inches between the twoprt heads of the sterno-mastoid, but this aa’OuM not be justifiable in the liAiir subject, as it does not gi\'e sufficient space. 'I’he early steps of the operationtu. should be the same as in ligature of the lower part of the carotid (see«)f ligature of the carotid, p. 174). The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles must be freely diAuded, and the carotid exposed as Ioav down as I /.»' possible. This vessel serves as the guide to the innominate, the finger being io< passed along it to till the bifurcation of the main trunk can be felt. Thcjrr needle is then guided by the finger, and passed round the artery from the b, /i outer side. It is eAudent that the vessel cannot be clearly exposed in hj .'ri i i' K »a IT this mode of operating, and the needle is therefore passed somewhat in the I n hi