820 SPECIAL ILERNIjE. so commonly seated outside the sac, that the operation usually admits of being completed without implicating the peritoneum. The advantage of this mode of procedure in femoral hernia has been fully pointed out by A. Key, Luke, and Gay, and is now very generally recognized in practice. Gay, more par- ticularly, has pointed out that the stricture may commonly be divided without opening the sac, by making a very limited incision on the inner surface of the neck of the tumour ; and he observes that the operation undertaken in this manner is little more than the taxis with the addition of a superficial incision. There is, however, this important difference between a hernia reduced by the ordinary simple taxis and one returned by Petit’s operation, that the strangu- lation in the latter case has been far tighter, or the operation would not have been necessary, and the consequent injury to the protruded parts is much more severe. The stiicture in femoral hernia is often found to be occasioned by the pres- i sure of the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament. Most Surgeons recommend | that this should be divided, but some advise that the division should be made at the junction of Gimbernat’s and Poupart’s ligaments, dividing at the same time the fibres of the superior cornu of the falciform border of the saphenous opening which are attached to Gimbernat’s ligament, and were first descriljed by Hey, under the name of “ the femoral ligament ” (1803), Hey, subsequently (1814), dropped this designation, but these fibres are still sometimes called “ Hey’s ligament,” It is in this situation that both Lawrence and Hey recommended the incision i to be made. In operating for femoral hernia, I have certainly most frequently found the stricture still to continue after the division of these ligamentous \ structures, and to be occasioned by the deep crural arch which forms in many , i cases a very distinct narrow and glistening band lying across the neck of the sac in the fascia propria of the hernia ; and I agree with the opinion expressed , by Sir A. Cooper, that the neck of the sheath is tlie common seat of strangu- ; i lation in femoral hernia. The bands forming the deep crm’al arch are proba- ; • bly thickened in old hernia from the pressure of the truss and the contents of '; the sac. In order to expose them it is commonly necessary to draw the neck i of the sac well down, when they will be seen deeply to indent and con- i strict it. i The operation without opening the sac may most conveniently be per- | formed when the tumour is small, by making an incision by transfixion along \ the inner side of its neck, and then dissecting through the superficial structures j until the fascia propria is brought into view and carefully opened, and the sac j exposed. The point of the finger should then be carried to the inner side of | this, well under the fascia propria. The finger-nail or flat director may then be insinuated under the sharp edge of Gimbemat’s ligament, which, at the point of junction with Poupart’s, may be divided upwards and inwards to the extent of a line or two by means of a hernia-knife. By this incision, not only is the edge of Gimbernat’s and Poupart’s ligament divided, but also the condensed and compressed fascia propria lying between the sac and the iuner side of the crural arch. The reduction may now be attempted, and often effected : should any obstacle exist, the neck of the sac must be well dravu down and exposed, and any transverse bands belonging to the deej) crural arc i which may be situated upon it dissected through with the scalpel and forceps, or divided on a director. These bands are incorporated with tlie fascia