niLA TERA L LITHOTOM Y 983 ) 1 \ f i f no means a bloodless operation, as is supposed by some, yet there is less hmmon'liage during the perfonuance, or rather, perhaps, less continuous oozing after its completion, than in the lateral, and there is certainly not the danger of the profuse bleeding that is sometimes seen in the latter operation. Where we have to do with a stone of large size, the median is not, in my opinion, safe ; such an amount of traction must be used as will infallibly bruise and lacerate the neck and base of the bladder, and expose the patient to infiltration of urine Fig. 868.—Oupuytren’s Lithotoine Cache, Opened. across the perinieum half an inch above the anus, towards which its concavity looks, the horns of theinci.sion extending to two-thirds of the distance between •the anus and the tuber ischii on each side (Fig. 8G7). The dissection is care- i* fully carried down to the central point of the perinieum, and the membranous jr portion of the urethra is opened on a grooved median staff previously intro- [ dneed ; along this the double lithotome cache (Fig. 8{>8) is passed with its con- ** cavity turned upwards. The Surgeon, having well assured himself that the Fig. SOT.—Line of Incision in Bilateral Lithotomy (l[)upu}'tren). and deep pelvic inflammation—to all the dangers, in fact, of the old Marian operation ; dangers which were so great that more than half the patients I;subjected to it perished, and which caused it to be abandoned for the lateral. The median operation is not adapted to children. The space in them 11 between the rectum and the pubes is too small, and, moreover, “ dilatation I of the prostate would be impossible, as it is not large enough to allow the It finger to pass through, and any attempt to do so without free incision would Uprobably be attended by transverse laceration of the urethra. Moreover, the I lateral operation in boys is so successful that there is no reason for adopting II any other. Bilateral Lithoto3IY.—The bilateral operation introduced by Dupuytren 11 is a moditication of the old median. In it a curved transverse incision is made