HOLLOW CLAW-FOOT—PATHOLOGY—TREATMENT. 531 of this muscle is upon a movable point, the posterior and superior extremities of the second and ungual phalanges. The tendency to extension is counter- acted by the interossei, which serve to give a fixed point for the extensor loiigns digitorum to act from, when flexing the foot at the ankle. But when these muscles are paralysed, the attachment of the extensor communis digitorum becomes very movable, and we then see at the moment of flexion of the foot upon the leg, that the first phalanges are drawn back even more than before upon the metatarsal bones, at the same time depressing the heads of these bones. The action of the long extensor as a flexor and abductor of the foot is thus much weakened, and this leads to a predominance in the action of the tibialis anticus (flexor and adductor of the foot), in consequence of which a mild form of varus is produced accompanied by some raising of the heel, due to imperfect flexion of the ankle-joint. To sum up : this variety of hollow foot (pied creux) is produced by an exaggerated and continued action of the extensors of the first phalanges of the toes—extensor communis digitorum and extensor proprius pollicis, follow- ing on a weakness or feebleness of their antagonists—the interossei, adductor, and short flexor of the great toe. Consequently any excess of action of these Siune extensor muscles, whatever may be its cause, ought to produce exactly identical results. The knowledge of this fact explains the origin of the hollowed claw-foot that we see produced in talipes equinus, when the long extensor of the toes has preserved its voluntary contractility ; and it will be as well here shortly to consider the cause of the alteration in the foot in talipes equinus. As soon as the talipes commences to oppose the flexion of the foot upon the leg, the opposing muscles act with increased vigour to prevent the deformity. This leads to an abnormal extension of the first phalanges of the toes (to which the extensor longus and extensor pollicis are attached), and ultimately to a subluxation of these phalanges upon the dorsal surfaces of the heads of the metatarsal bones. Every attempt at flexion then depresses the heads of the metatarsal bones into the sole of the foot, so increasing the plantar arch. This is most marked in the great toe. The tonic force of the an- tagonists to the extensors is unable to withstand the exaggerated action of the long extensors. That the mechanism here given is coiTect, may be shown by the following fact. In a well marked case of a patient affected with a “hollow claw-footed efjuinus ” (griffe pied creux equin), we should see that any attempt to flex the foot at the ankle leads only to further extension of the toes, which become drawn back over the heads of the metatarsal bones, pressing them down and increasing the arch of the foot. Hence, so far from any raising of the extremity of the foot taking place, it is rather depressed. The Treatment of this condition must be conducted on two principles : 1. The stimulation of the paralysed interossei, adductor, and short flexor of the toe by means of faradization ; and 2. The division of the tendons of those muscles which by their tonic contraction maintain and increase the deformity. Those which I have usually found it necessary to divide are the extensor of the great toe, the tendo Achillis, and in addition to these a very tight band of the inner division of the plantar fascia. The Scarpa’s shoe that is used after the operation should have hinges across the middle and be provided with a rack-and-piuion movement, so that the depressed heads of the metatarsal M 2