DISEASES OF THE DENIS AND SCROTUM. 1132 becomes united in the middle line, forming the glans of the clitoris. In the male the two sides of the urogenital aperture unite in the middle line, forming the scrotum, and the bulbous and spongy portions of the urethra. .\.t the same time the small eminence which in the female becomes the clitoris, de- velopes into the jienis. The vascular bulbs, which in the female remain separate in the labia, unite along the middle line in the male, forming the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. In the female no corpus spongiosum exists in the clitoris, the glans being an isolated nodule of erectile tissue. In the male the erectile tissue is continuous around the urethra fi’om the bulb forwards. Hypospadias consists in an arrest of the union along the middle line, and in proportion to the degree of the malformation the male organs come more closely to resemble the female in appearance. Hypospadias appears in three degrees. In the simplest form the glans is cleft along its under surface, the foreskin also shoving a corresponding gap. In the second degree the corpora cavernosa and glans are well-developed, but the urethra is cleft to the root of the penis and the corpus spongiosum is wanting between the bulb and the glans. The penis thus resembles a large clitoris. The under surface shows a furrow in the line of the urethra usually covered by a moist mucous membrane. Between the glans penis and the point at which the urethra terminates, in the place of the absent corpus spongiosmn a firm dense band of fibrous tissue is often present, somewhat resembling in hardness and tension the cicatrix of a burn. In these cases when erection takes place, the organ assumes a crescentic shape, with the convexity upwards, the tense hard cord that has just been mentioned stretching across its arc like the string of a bow, thus rendering connection impossible, and the sufferer practically impotent. The third and most extreme form of hypospadias is when the scrotum also is cleft and the urethra opens in the perinseum. This is usually accompanied by imperfect development of the penis, and most commonly by retained testicles. It is this malformation that has been erroneously considered to be an example of hennaphroditism. The cleft empty scrotum resembles the labia of the female, and the diminutive penis might readily be taken for a large clitoris. Hypos]')adias affects only the parts in front of the membranous portion of the urethra, and consequently never leads to incontinence. Treatment.—The first degree of hypospadias requires no treatment, the cleft glans being not even an inconvenience. Intermediate degrees between the first and second require treatment only if the urethra is so short that the seminal fluid will not enter the vagina during connection, or if there is a tight band beneath. In the second degree of hypospadias, the first step is to dissect away the finn fibrous band which prevents complete erection. Some months after this has been successfully accomplished, and when the scars have become supple, the attempt may be made to close the urethra. In order to do this successfully, it is necessary to provide an epithelium-covered lining for the new urethra. ^Many methods have been suggested for doing this, but by far t he best is that adopted by Anger, Avhich is an adaptation to hypospadias of Thiersch’s operation for epispadias. It is thus performed. An incision is made parallel to the groove representing the urethra, and halt an inch from its right margin, a transverse incision from each end of this is made up to the