854 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. The operation is practicable only in cases in which the pylorus has not formed such adhesions to the surrounding ]>arts as to pi-event its being drawn completely IVom the wound. Before the operation the patient must be con- fined to licpiid food for some days. Immediately before commencing the stomach must be thoroughly cleaned by means of the stomach-jjump with tepid Avater. The incision through the abdominal Avail must be transAxu-se, or nearly so, in direction, placed over the tumour, and free enough to expose the parts thoroughly. In Billroth’s cases the external Avound was four to five inches in length, crossing the middle line above the umbilicus. The great and small omentum must be carefully separated from the parts to be removed, all bleeding vessels being tied as divided. The pyloric part of the stomach is then draAvn from the Avound and laid on a carbolized cloth or a flat sponge, the subsequent steps of the operation being conducted outside the abdomen. The stomach and duodenum are then cut through Avith scissors. After each stroke of the scissors, any bleeding point is secured. Before dividing the duodenum, a few threads must be passed through its serous and muscular coats, lest it slip back into the cavity of the abdomen. The stomach is then fitted to the duodenum, by the removal of a V-shaped piece of its walls, either in the greater and lesser curvature, or at one side only. Finally, the duodenum and the stomach are united by sutures inserted as already described, the stomach returned to the abdomen, and the wound closed. The operation takes from one to two hours, and fifty to sixty sutures may be required. Success depends upon attention to antiseptic details, and preA^ntion of the escape of any of the intestinal contents into the abdomen. In the after-treatment no food is alloAved by the mouth for two or three days, the patient being supported by nutritive enemata. Billroth alloAved his case sour milk on the third day. In a case in Avhich the operation was attempted, but found to be impractic- able, V. Winiwarter ingeniously performed an operation to which he has given the name of gast7'o-enterostomy. It consists in drawing up the third part of the duodenum and establishing a fistulous opening betAveeu it and the gi-eat curvature of the stomach. In the first case it was successful, and gave great relief. OPEEATIONS ON THE LIATEB. Surgical procedures on the liver are required for the relief of abscesses, for the cure of hydatid cysts, and for some affections of the gall-bladder. Abscess of the Liver.—Abscesses of the liver may be multiple or single. Multiple abscesses are usually the result of pyaemia, and admit of no sui-gical treatment. The single abscess generally occurs in patients who have lived in tropical regions, and is consequently often termed the “ tropical abscess.” The diagnosis of the disease belongs rather to the physician than to the sm-geon. It will be sufficient to mention here that the chief symptoms are fever, rigors, loss of appetite and health, occasional jaundice, Avith pain in the region of the liver, and sometimes in the right shoulder. There is increased liAcr dulness, and in the later stages bulging at some point corresponding to the surface of the liver, either in front or beneath the loAver ribs beliind. Ihe abscess, if uiirclieAxd, may burst into the pleura, luug, intestine or peritoneum, but in many cases it points tOAvards the surface, cither in the right hypo- chondriac region, or through the loAver ribs behind. The diagnosis of the I ( i t- 1 I • f i' f ( i e Q I \\. < I ■