NEPHRECTOMY. 927 ^kidney, an operation that a few years since would have been considered as .insound in physiological principle as impracticable to surgical art. Before proceeding to the removal of the kidney, it becomes necessary for die Surgeon to ascertain that a person could not only live, but that the health night be maintained after the removal of so very important an eliminatory organ. That this can be has been proved by the result of injury, by pathological •esearch, and by physiological experiment. There are cases on record in which, in consequence of a deep stab or slashing jut in the loin, one kidney has been wounded and forced out of the wound, vhence it has been removed after ligature of its pedicle, the patients making ■, good recovery. Then, again, it has long been known to pathologists that a .»ei-son may live with one kidney practically useless, either blocked by “.talculus, destroyed by suppuration, or converted into a mere sac in hydro- ephrosis. Simon, of Heidelberg, proved by numerous experiments on dogs ,hat one kidney might be extirpated without danger of nrmmia, and that he animal not only recovered, but enjoyed perfect health afterwards. The ground having thus been cleared, and the fact having been proved by he combined e^idence of obseiwation as to the result of injury, of the effect f pathological changes, and by experimental investigations, Gustav Simon '/as encouraged to imdertake the operation for the extirpation of one kidney, .liis he did in 1809, in the case of a woman who, having had the ureter cut cross in the operation of ovariotomy, was left with a urinary fistula otherwise ncurable. The kidney, which was healthy, was removed by a lumbar incision, ."he patient made a good recovery, the fistula being cured. Seven years after he operation she was in perfect health. Since this time the ojDeration has f ecome an established one in surgery, and has frequently been performed. The conditions under Avhich nephrectomy is undertaken have been already leescribed. It must always be borne in mind that the gravity of the operation ; such that it should never be performed except for conditions thi-eatening life. In all cases, before undertalring this operation, the condition of the other i idney must be ascertained if possible. Various means have been suggested or doing this. Catheterism of the ureter, even in the female, cannot be irried out with sufficient certainty to be of any use. R. Davy has proposed 'ressure on the ureter leading from the diseased kidney by means of the :ime lever that he employs in compression of the iliac. It remains to be seen i hether this is practicable. At present no means of cutting off the flow of fine from one kidney while examining that from the other can be said to be ractically efficient. The sound kidney must be examined by manipulation »r enlargement or tenderness. Severe vomiting should always lead to a grave ispicion of double disease. A marked deficiency in the quantity of urine ccreted, or in the solids eliminated by the kidneys, is also a grave sign. In oerating by the abdominal incision, the other kidney may be felt for from ithin the abdomen. In spite of all precautions, however, the only working idney has been removed more than once. The operation may be peifiormcd by the lumbar or the aMomiml incision. If le lumbar method be adopted the transverse incision, with the vertical exten- ■un carried from it to the crest of the ilium is the best, as giving most room. *he early steps of the operation arc the same as in nephro-lithotomy. When ■le capsule is reached this must be opened in cases of pyelitis, in other cases should be preserved uninjured if possible. The kidney is then carefully