DISEASES OF VEINS. 6o also sedentary ocenpabions and prolonged standing tend to favour accumulation of blood in tbe veins of the loAver extremities. Any obstacle to the return of blood from a vein (as the pressure of a tight garter below the knee, or of a tumour upon one of the large venous trunks), may give rise to permanent distension if it act for a sufficient length of time. AVhen the vein has become sufficiently dilated to render its valves incompetent, the tension of the walls of the veins is greatly increased by the weight of the unbroken column of blood, and the condition thus becomes aggi’avated. In all cases in which the tissues are congested from any obstruction to the return of blood to the heart, the walls of the veins suffer with the other parts, and thus arc rendered more prone to undergo degenerative changes. In some cases the affection, or the disposition to it, appears to hereditary; and in many instances it is difficult to recognize any cause except an enf celled and relaxed stale of the ivalls of the vessel, such as is met with in tall, debilitated, and phlegmatic people. Age influences materially the occuiTence of the disease, which, rare in the earlier periods of life, gradually increases in frequency as the individual advances in years up to the middle period of life when the tendency ceases. In ivomen, especially, the affection is common ; in conse- quence, partly, of natural debility, but more frequently from the pressure of the enlarged uterus during pregnancy. Locality.—The veins of the skin and the mucous membranes are those that are most liable to varix. It is most commonly met with in the legs, and more particularly in the trunk of the internal saphena. Simple dilatation may be met with in any of the superfleial veins, as of the chest, arms, head, neck, hypogastrium, or thorax, but true varix in these situations is rare. The veins of the anus and lower part of the rectum are especially liable to varix, as they are but loosely supported by the surrounding parts, and are liable to over distension from any cause that obstructs the hepatic circulation, such as a cirrhosis of the liver. The spermatic veins also often become enlarged, constituting varicocele. True varix is infinitely more common in the lower than in the upper part of the body, owing evidently to the influence of gravity in causing tension in the more dependent vessels. Dilatation of the veins at any point above the pelvis arises in most cases from the pressure of a tumour of some kind upon the large venous trunks, the superficial veins being enlarged to take the place of the deeper vessels that are obstructed. This condition may end in true varix, but if the enlargement is sufficient to enable the vein to carry the required quantity of blood easily there will be none of those changes of the coats which constitute true varix and are the result of abnormal tension. The deep-seated veins that are principally affected are the internal jugulam, the vena azygos, and the veins of the prostate. Morbid Anatomy.—^Yeins that are simply dilated differ from true varicose veins in being merely increased in size, without any alteration in structure. Their walls are thin and soft, and they collapse readily. A varicose vein is increased in diameter and elongated, forming curves and bending back on itself. Sometimes the enlargements at particular points appear multilocular, the vein forming a series of curves and dilatations lying closely packed together. The coats of the vein are opaque, and thickened often to such an extent that the divided vessel stands open like an artery. Occasionally cal- careous plates are met with in the thickened walls. On opening the vein the