693 FOR.US OF TRACHEA-TUBE. of this coutriviincc consists. If the two tubes be of the same length, or still more, if the innermost tube be the shorter, a ping of mucus may be left at the end of the outer cannula, on the withdrawal of the inner tube. But if this be the longer of the two, the end of the outer tube will be effectually cleared every time it is withdrawn, which may be done as often as any mucus collects. without in the slightest degree disturbing the patient. The two tubes are fixed by means of a button, attached to the edge of the outer one (Bigs. 7t)2, 763). The bivalve trachea-tube (Figs. 759, 760) is constructed on the same principle, the inner tube being longer than the outer ; and it possesses the additional advantage of being readily removed for the purposes of cleaning, and as easily replaced. When used for laryngotomy, the tube may con- veniently be curved on the flat (Fig. 764); the longest diameter being lateral instead of antero-posterior, thus being adapted to the form of the aperture in the crico-thyroid membrane. It sometimes happens that, in consequence of the tube becoming detached from the shield, it slips into the trachea, where it acts as a foreign body. Cases of this kind have been related by Walters, and by J. W. Ogle. The removal of the tubes was effected by means of forceps. For the prevention of such an accident, it has been suggested that the trachea-tube should be formed in one piece, instead of in two pieces soldered together. AVhen a trachea-tube has been worn for any length of time, it will almost always be found that ulceration has taken place in the trachea at some point as the result of pressure. The dis- charge from this ulcerating surface, and the increased .secretion caused by the accompanying irritation, add greatly to the difficulty experienced in keeping the tube from becoming choked. To overcome these difficulties, ^lorrant Baker has employed a tube made of India- rubber, such as is used in the manufacture of the India- : rublxjr catheter. It has sufficient rigidity to prevent its * colla])sing, but not sufficient to give rise to irritation or ' to cause ulceration. It is to be introduced after the first twenty-four hoins, a silver tube being used till then. The tube is single, but the ease ’ with which it can be removed and re-introduced is so great, that there is no difficulty in keejnng it clean; in fact, the irritation produced in so - doing is said to be less than that caused by the removal of the inner tube of ‘ any ordinary double trachea-tube. Baker has found, from experience in a Fig. 7t>5.—J3aktfi-’s Truclieotomy-tube.