30 DISEASES OF TUE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fig. 421.—Neuroma with Nervous Filaments spread out over Tumour. paroxysmal. The motor function of the nerve is very seldom affected. The pain is evidently owing to the stretching of the nervous twigs as they pass over the tumour. Single neuromata are sometimes not only painful but acutely tender when touched; liut when many tumours are present it is a singular fact that they are always painless and unattended by any inconvenience except such as arises from their numbers and bulk. The number of such tumours is sometimes amazingly great: thus, in one of R. W. Smith’s cases, described in a monograph which contains the fullest and most accurate account of this disease, he counted in the two lower extremities alone more than 250 of these tumours, besides those in other parts of the body. In another case related by him, there were upwards of 200 small neuromata scattered over the sides of the chest and abdomen, 450 on the right lower extremity, and upwards of 300 on the left; altogether probably not less than 2000 of these growths in this unprecedented case.” Other tumours besides fibromata are occasionally met with in connection with nerves. Myxomata are perhaps the most frequent. In 1870 I amputated the leg for a spindle-celled sarcoma of considerable size, which was found on dissection to have sprung from the posterior tibial nerve. The pamful subcutaneous tubercle (see p. 983, Yol. I.) is probably also a fibroma connected with a nervous twig. Traumatic Neuromata may arise from the wound or partial division of a nerve. The central end of every divided nerve becomes more or less bulbous, the enlargement being composed partly of dense fibrous tissue and partly of newly-formed nerve-fibres. As a rule this condition, which must be regarded as normal, is unattended by any pain or discomfort. Occasionally, however, the enlargement reaches the size of a nut or pigeon’s egg, and then the growth must be regarded as a true tumour. It may be acutely tender and give rise to the most intense neuralgic pain. Treatment—No neuroma should be interfered with unless it is causing in- convenience by the pain it gives rise to or by its bulk. If it becomes neces- sary to do something to relieve the patient, excision of the tumour is the only possible mode of treatment. In idiopathic neuromata the attempt must always be made, by cautious dissection, to remove the tumour from the nerve, without cutting this across. This can be done in most cases without difiiculty. If it is impossible to save the whole limb, a few fasciculi may possibly be preserved which will maintain the continuity of the nerve and facilitate subsequent restoration. If complete division is unavoidable, an effort must be made to suture the divided ends after relaxing the parts as much as possible by position. Even if this fail, restoration of function may sometimes take place. Traumatic neuromata of stumps are treated by excision. TETANUS. Tetanus is a disease consisting essentially in an excited state of the spinal cord and the medulla oblongata, in fact of the whole true spinal system, giving