171 DIAGNOSIS OF CAROTID ANEURISM. The diagnosis of aneurism of the lower part of tlie carotid from swnJar disease of other arteries at the root of the neck, as of the subclavian, vertebral, and brachio-cephalic, and the arch of the aorta, is surrounded by difficulties, which can be cleared up only by a careful stethoscopic examination of the part. In some aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, the sac rises up into the neck, so as closely to simulate a carotid aneurism, as in the annexed cut (Fig'. 470) ; and this greatly increases the difficulty of the diagnosis. In such cases, Holmes suggests that the effect produced by carefully applied distal pressure may aid in the diagnosis. If, after a few hours, when the collateral circula- tion should be commencing to enlarge, the sac shows no signs of diminished tension, the case is very probably one of aortic aneurism. The principal affections of the neck, however, with which aneurism of the carotid may be confounded, are varix of the internal jugular vein, enlarged lymphatic glands, abscess, tumours, cysts in the neck, and pulsating bronchocele. A dilated arteinj doubled upon.itself may closely resemble an aneinusm when situated at the root of the neck. Such a case is recorded by Coulson. It occurred in an old woman of 88. No treatment was adopted, and after death the supposed aneurism was found to be a reduplication of the common carotid suiTouuded by indurated cellular tissue. From varix the diagnosis may readily be made by attention to the following circumstances : that in varix the tumom* is always soft, does not pulsate ex- pansively, and diminishes in size durmg a deep inspiration, and on compressing the vein on its distal side. Glandxdar tumours of the neclc are often very difficult to distinguish from aneurism, more particularly when the artery passes through and is embraced by the tumour, so that the whole mass distinctly moves at each pulsation. In these cases also there may be an apparent diminution in the size of the tumour oil compression, by the artery within it being emjitied, or by the growth reced- ing into some of the interspaces of the neck. But in the great majority of mstances, attention to the globular, oval, and nodulated feel of glandular swellings, and the possibility of raising them up and pushing them away from the vessel—which may best be done by feeling the carotid with the ends of the fingers of one hand, and then pressing upon the tumour with the other— will clear up the true nature of the case. From abscess of the neclc the diagnosis must be made on general principles. The coexistence of ill-defined hardness and of enlargement of the glands, of an inflamed state of the skin, the ready detection of fluctuation, and the absence of e.xpansile pulsation in the tumour, will show that it is not aneurismal, however similar its other characters may be. It is of importance to observe also that an aneurism that fluctuates is always forcibly distended with strong pulsation, and can be materially diminished by pressure, neither of which circumstances can possibly occur in abscess. But if abscess piay be mistaken for aneui'ism, the converse also holds good ; and an aneurism may, unless care be taken, l)c mistaken for abscess—a far more fatal error. And there is one variety of false aneurism, that to which Liston has invited special attention, against which the Surgeon must be carefully on his guard, on account ol the many points of resemblance between it and aneurism : 1 mean the case in which an arteiy has given way into the sac of an abscess. In this case, Huctuation and pulsation Avill exist, although not perhaps of a distending kind. An important diagnostic mark will be, however, that the outline of an aneurism