OPE RATIONS ON THE AIR-TUPE AND CHEST. 686 12. Im])action of foreign substances in the pliarjiix (T). 13. Aspliyxia from any cause by which the glottis is mechanically closed (T or L, according to the age of the i)atient). j 14. Accidents in o])crations about the head and face by which blood accumu- lates ill the pharynx (L). 15. As a preliminary step in certain operations on the bones of tlie face, [I; attended by much ha3morrhage (T). Id. liaryngcal spasm or paralysis from compression of the inferior laryngeal nerve by aortic aneurism (L). ip LARYXG0T03IY is ail easy operation. The crico-thyroid membrane is almost subcutaneous, and may readily be reached by making a vertical incision in the mesial line, between the sterno-hyoid, about an inch in length, and then a cross cut through the membrane with an ordinary scalpel. The air-passage having thus been opened, a silver tube, curved on the fiat, may be readily in- troduced and retained by tapes round the neck. The only troublesome result that can occur in this operation is the wound of a small arteiy, the crico- thyroid branch of the superior thyroid, which crosses the membrane. I have never seen any trouble arise from this; but, should it occur, the haemorrhage would readily be arrested by the application of pressure or ligature. Ill cases of extreme urgency, it is recommended by some Surgeons that laryngotomy be performed by a transverse instead of by a longitudinal cut through the superficial structures in order to save time. In this opinion I do not agree; little if any time is saved, and peril may ensue by cutting across ^ the branches of the anterior jugular veins—thus leading, as I have seen, to ■ profuse liEemorrhage, equally embarrassing and dangerous. There is, more- j over, some risk of the formation of an aerial fistula. In all cases the longi- 1 tudiiial cut answers perfectly, and the crico-thyroid membrane can be opened '; by it ill less than five seconds. Tracheotomy consists in making an opening into some part of the trachea, j , by exposing the tube and cutting across two or three rings. j'' There are three situations in wliich the trachea may be opened; above, imderneath, and below the isthmus of the thyi'oid body, which usually crosses it the air-tube opposite its second and third rings. Above the isthmus, the i ■ • trachea is comparatively superficial, being covered merely by the skin and | 1 superficial fiiscia, the deep fascia, and the sterno-hyoid muscles. Beneath the j f muscles will be found a strong fascia, which comes downwards in front of the ; : larynx from the hyoid bone and divides above the thyroid body, inclosing its i isthmus between its two layers. This fascia is of some importance, as it is j f difficult to push the isthmus downwards so as to expose the upper ring-s of the i trachea without notching this transversely. Below the thyroid gland the trachea recedes from the surface and is overlapped by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, beneath which is some loose areolar tissue in which lie the inferior thyroid plexus of veins, which are of large size, together with some i tracheal branches from the inferior thyroid artery, and in rare cases an irregular arterial branch ascends from the aorta in front of the trachea to the ' thyroid body—the thyroidca ima. Beneath the deep fascia, but superficial to ' the muscles on each side, lie the anterior jugular veins. These are variable in size, become larger below, and sometimes communicate by a brancli crossing the line of the tracheotomy wound. The carotid arteries also are in close relation to the trachea on each side, being more especially in danger