CYSTINE AND NANTJIINE CALCULI. 935 Fig. 830.—Crystals of Cystine. with. Coltling \Vm\ states that in Guy’s Hospital :Hiisciuii there are^ eleven composed of this peculiar substance ; and in the Museum ot University ■ College we have some good specimens. Cystine in calculus has a peculiar yellowish colour, becoming green after exposure to the air, and a waxy look, thus ditferiiig much from any other ingre- dient met with in urinary concretions. Friction applied to its cut surface causes it to emit a smell like that of garlic. Xanthine, or Xanthic Oxide, was first noticed by IMarcet, and has since been observed by Laugier, Langenbeck, and others. It is of extremely rare occurrence, and has been found only in four recorded instances in the form of calculous concretions. These “ have genemlly been of small size, with the exception of the one removed by Langen- beck, which weighed 388 gi'ains. For a [.detailed account of the chemical characters mnd constituents of this substance, as well : as of the other materials of which calculi arc formed, I must refer to the jvworks of G. Bird, Beale, &c. Caarhonate of Lime has occasionally been met with as an amorphous ! powder in alkaline or very faintly acid urine. Bird states that he detected carbonate of lime as forming a distinct stratum in some phosphatic calculi; and Thudichum has examined prostatic concretions consisting almost entirely of This substance—the urinary origin of which, however, he doubts. But urinary wesical calculi composed of carbonate of lime are certainly very rarely met with. Chemical Examination.—For a complete account of the chemical examina- ttion of ui-inary calculi I must refer the reader to works on medical chemistry iby C. H. Ealfe and others. The following rough tests may, however, be ^employed for the three chief varieties, the other forms being so rare that they |r.may be practically excluded from consideration. Place a small fragment on a [ piece of platmum foil, and hold it in the flame of a spirit lamj). If it burns -■completely away, or at most leaves a scarcely appreciable residue, it is pro- tbably uric acid or urate of ammonia. If it blackens and then leaves a white rresidue of the same size as the original fragment, it is either oxalates or phos- i phates. Then place three very small fr-agments on three glass slides, and add l)y means of a glass rod a drop of dilute liquor potassm to one, of acetic acid to another, and of dilute hydrochloric acid to the third. If it dissolves in the liquor potassae it is either uric acid or urate of ammonia ; if it dissolves in itic acid and hydrochloric it is phosphates ; if it dissolves in hydi’ochlorio iicid and not in acetic it is oxalate of lime. If it dissolves in liquor potassm, [-put a glas.s cover slip over it and then run in beneath a drop of acetic or hydrochloric acid ; as the acid meets the alkaline fluid a white cloud will I appear, examine this under the microscope and it will be found to bo composed t'Of diamond-shaped ciystals of uric acid. As a conflrmatory test for oxalate [of lime, the white residue left after heating on the platinum foil may be l>laced on a glass slide and a drop of acid added, when it will be seen to ilissolve with efl’ervescence, oxalic acid having been broken up by the heat, and carbonate of lime remaining.