376 EXCISION OF JOINTS. Elbow-joint.—In tracing tlio history of the introduction of excision of the elbow-joint into surgical .practice, we find, as is the case in several other parts, that it was first partially and then wholly done for injury, and proposed by one Surgeon and eventually ])ractised by another for disease. Tims in 1758 or 1751), Wainman, in a case of compound dislocation of the joint, sawed off the lower end of the humerus just above the fossa, leaving the patient with a flexible and useful arm. Tyne, of Gloucester, did the same, removing two and a half inches of the lower end of the humerus, in a case of compound dislocation. Justamond, of the Westminster Hospital, was the first ' to operate in a case of disease : this he did in 1775, removing the olecranon and two inches of the ulna. Park proposed, but did not have an opportunity of practising, the complete extirpation of the joint. This was done for the first time by Moreau, senior, in 1794, and again by Moreau, junior, in 1797. Little was done from this time until the operation was revived by the Surgeons of Leeds ; in 1818 by Stansfield, in 1819 by Chorley and Hey. It then made rapid progress in professional estimation, and was specially largely practised by Syme and Liston, and the Surgeons of the Edinburgh Infirmary. The excision of the elbow-joint has been more frequently practised than that of any other ■ of the articulations except the knee, and the result has upon the whole lieen extremely satisfactory. This operation may be required, 1, for Chronic Disease of the Joint ; 2, for ; i Osseous Ankylosis ; and 3, for Compound Fractures and Dislocations. | 1. Strumous Arthritis or white swelling (p. 539), is the disease for which il excision of the elbow-joint is most commonly required in young subjects. It [i. may commence either in the synovial membrane or in the bones. In this j • i disease, the limb becomes useless, the joint is extremely painful on movement, jli and the surrounding soft parts are swollen, spongy, and perforated by sinuses h. from the openings of which fungating granulation-tissue usually projects. l i In older subjects the mischief will usually be found to be seated principally in i the bones, and the swelling of the surroimding parts is often not great. There ■ ■ may be merely one or two sinuses leading down to carious or necrosed bone in i the condyles or the olecranon, the joint being permanently flexed and the arm |: useless. On opening the joint loose pieces of dead bone may be found lying ! in the hollow of the olecranon, or in one of the condyles of the humerus, the 11 rest of the articular sm’faces being carious with more or less complete destruc- ,»: tion of the articular cartilages. Most commonly, the radius is the last bone j i that is affected, the ulna and the articular end of the humerus being generally i. first diseased. In some cases excision is required on account of acute destructive i' arthritis secondary to suppuration taking place outside the joint and extending i’ into it. The elbow forms an exception to the rule that excision of a joint is ^ not to be undertaken while there is a hope of obtaining a cure by ankylosis. Provided the patient is otherwise healthy, the operation may be performed as soon as it is evident that the movements of the joint will be lost should recovery take place under simple treatment. 2. If osseous anhylosis have occurred, whether in the straight or in the bent position, excision may advantageously be practised, provided the patient is in good health. This operation was first performed in 1827, by Rhea Barton of Philadelphia. When the elbow is ankylosed in the straight position, the arm is quite useless ; and any operation by which flexion of the limb can be obtained, ' even without mobility of the joint, will add most materially to the patient’s j