125 CASES SUITABLE FOR LIGATURE. I (. It has occasionally, perhaps more frecpiently than the profession knows, hap- f i )ened to Surgeons that they have cut down upon an artery with the intention 11 'f tying it, and found it in so diseased a state that the application of the liga- i i nre was impracticable, and that it became necessary to close the wound without ( ompleting the operation. Liston and Aston Key have both had tlie candour i"K 0 record such cases. In one case that happened to me in which it was bought necessary to tie the superhcial femoral for popliteal aneurism, I ound, on cutting down on the artery, that there was a small aneurismal dila- /^|. ation just below the giving off of the profunda, and a tubular dilatation of the likirtery below this, rendering the application of ligature utterly impracticable. ■ afterwards tied the external iliac, but unsuccessfully. It must be remembered II hat, in such cases as these, not only are the arterial coats softened and incapable !:)f bearing the strain of the ligature, but the vein is usually adherent, andcon- t -equently liable to perforation in passing the aneurism-needle between it and ' ;>he artery. And even could the act of deligation be practised, secondary ; immorrhage would undoubtedly occur at an early period in an artery that is ; mcapable of healthy obliteration. •' All operation should be avoided when there is any serious disease of the if leart, and in cases of multiple aneurism where the second tumour is situated *: ntemally ; but it has happened that two aneurisms in one limb, as of the I oopliteal and femoral arteries, have been cured by one ligature applied to the s jxtemal iliac. Two aneurisms seated in corresponding parts of opposite limbs, >• affecting, for instance, the two popliteal arteries, may be successfully operated E- -ipon. But, if two aneurisms be seated on different parts of the body, as :he axilla and gi’oin for instance, at the same time, extensive disease of “ /he arteries would he indicated, and it certainly would not be expedient to .fi ■fl: M' 1 f t i. c if i ip V r i p i I operate. In certain cases, the Hunterian operation seldom succeeds. This happens ■ n those instances in which it is necessary to apply the ligature very close to I/he sac, so as indeed rather to perform Aiiel’s operation, as here there is the ! louble danger of inflaming or wounding the sac, and of interfering with the collateral circulation of the limb. Those cases, also, in which the aneurism fs very acute in its progress, increasing rapidly with forcible pulsation, having .*ery fluid contents, and a large mouth to the sac, into which, the blood is jonsequently driven in a full wave at each pulsation of the heart, are rarely fa\'ourable for the use of the ligature, inasmuch as stratification seldom occurs. When the aneurism is situated in the midst of loose and very yielding tissues, in the axilla, where it readily expands to a large size, not being bound down by the suirounding parts, suppuration and sloughing of the sac are especially : ipt to occur after ligature. AYhen it is diffused widely through the limb, '..vith coldness and a tendency to incipient gangrene, the circulation of blood dirough the part is so much choked that deligation of the vessel will in ‘.all probability airest it entirely, and thus produce mortification. AYhen larterics can be felt to be calcified, it is a (|uestion whether they can be safely ligatured, as in all probability they will be cut or broken through by the ncKjse, and the changes neces.sary for their occlusion will not take jjlacc. Porter, however, recommends that the ligature should bo applied in such cases, though 1 cannot but doubt the propriety of this advice. AYhen inflammation has been set up in the sac, with a tendency to su])puration of the tumour, it is a debatable question whether the ligature should be ap])lied or not. In these 1