1113 OPERATIONS FOR IMPERMEABLE STRICTURE. ■icision will not follow the line of the urethra and the fistulous track he :<tablishes between the part of the urethra in front of the stricture and that ehind it will almost to a certainty contract as the wound heals to such an xtent as to leave the patient little better for the operation. S. Opening the Urethra in Front of the Stricture and dividing frrom before backwards.—This operation, though difficult of performance in ji.ome cases, gives better results than any other.* Wheelhouse has lately [; nvented some ingenious instruments which greatly facilitate its performance. The operation is thus performed. The patient having been secured in he lithotomy-position, Wheelhouse’s staff’ is jMssed down to the stricture. L’he end of this is about the size of a No. 8 catheter ; on one side it is lattened and grooved, and on the other it forms a small blunt hook, vith which the upper end of the “ button-hole ” incision in the urethra may oe draAvn upwards. The staff being passed and held with the grooved side ibnvards the Surgeon cuts down upon it by an incision about 1| in. long in the median line and opens the urethi-a just above the stricture. The staff is now oushed out at the wound and turned round, so that the small hook is forwards; :.t is then drawn upwards so as to catch in the upper angle of the opening, and in this way the urethra is put on the stretch and steadied. If the special staff' be not at hand the end of a catheter can be cut down on with almost equal ease. The edges of the slit in the urethra are then seized in arterj- forceps and held apart so as to expose the interior of the canal which can be readily recognized by its smooth shining surface. It will often be found to be convenient to pass a silk suture through each side by which the edges may be held apart, as the forceps are rather apt to get in the way. Oozing having been allowed to cease, the aperture leading to the stricture will usually be found without very great difficulty. The chief trouble in many cases arises from the constant trickling of blood from the upper part of the wound. This may be arrested by plugging it with a small sponge, or by the application of water, at a temperature of about 140° F., which is usually more efficient than ice. Another difficulty may arise from the urethra having been opened too far above the stricture, under ^vhich circumstances the incision must be pro- longed downwards. If a false passage have been opened instead of the urethra it is recognized by the absence of the smooth pink mucous membrane. The orifice of the stricture must be sought for with a fine probe. 'Wheelhouse uses a small probe-pointed director. In some cases the small director used in slitting up the canaliculus will be found to pass when otlier instruments have faikd. In seeking the true orifice of the stricture every depression must be carefully explored without force. Pressure above the pubes will often cause a slight escape of urine by whi(;h the proper orifice may be recognized. 'When the opening is found and the jwobe ])assed, the stricture must be divided along it with a fine knife or tenotome. "Wlieelliousc then pa<5scs a small gorget through the stricture and along this a full-sized catheter can be easily guided into the bladder. It must he tied in and retained for a few days. The wound may l>e wiped out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc and aftenvards sprinkled with iodoform and filled with iodoform-wool, Avhich may \)G left nndisturhed till the third day when healthy gTannlation Avill usually he found to have commenced. This operation requires care and i)atiencc, hut it is easier and safer than any other. General Results of the Treatment of Stricture.—Whether it is or