714 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. of sponge soaked in chloride of zinc solution (gr. 40 to 5j), lield in a pair of sinus-forceps. A drainage-tube should then be inserted into each, and gradually shortened at each dressing. In some cases healing is promoted by the introduction of a small quantity of iodoform. 'Idie worst submammary sinuses may usually be speedily made to close by this treatment. Chronic Inflammation of thf Breast.—Chronic Interstitial Mas- j titis.-:—A form of chronic interstitial inflammation of the breast, affecting usually only a limited part of the gland, is not uncommonly met with in women past middle life, and is of great importance from the resemblance it bears in its clinical features to scirrhous cancer. The condition was first accurately described by Cruveilhier under the name of fibrous bodies (coq)s fibreux) in the breast; and since his time it has received many other names, such as diffuse fibroma or hard elephantiasis (Virchow), Lobular Hypertrophy (Sir A. Cooper), knotty or nodular induration (Billroth), cirrhosis of the mamma, benign induration, &c. “Chronic lobular interstitial mastitis” is, however, the best name that can be applied to it, as it correctly indicates the nature of the affection. The pathological appearances are very minutely described by Virchow. In the earliest stage, which is evidently inflammatory, the acini and ducts of the i gland show no change beyond a slight increase in the epithelium. The : ^ connective tissue of the affected lobule is infiltrated with small round cells, , ^ which are most numerous in the immediate neighbourhood of the acini. In ! 11 the second stage the new cells undergo development into dense fibrous i tissue, like that of a cicatrix. This is accompanied, as in similar processes ,; elsewhere, by shrinking of the tissue. The acini and ducts in the affected ,; i area are thus pressed upon. The epithelium undergoes fatty degeneration, and is for the most part absorbed, and thus a number of the acini are finally j' obliterated. Here and there, however, small retention-cysts form, chiefly j' from the ducts which have been constricted in places by the contracting j: fibroid tissue, while at the same time there has been a slight increase of | secretion owing to the chronic inflammatory process going on in the smTOiind- | ing areolar tissue. These cysts seldom reach a size larger than that of a ! mustard seed, owing to the density of the tissue by which they are sur- rounded. The disease is very commonly limited to a single lobule of the mamma. Occasionally, however, it may be more diffused, and in such cases Avhen the stage of shrinking is reached, the gland may become shrivelled and considerably reduced in size. The nipple may be retracted as the brei.ist shrinks, thus still further increasing the resemblance to atrophic scirrhus. The causes of the condition are very obscure. It is frequently associated with some menstrual disturbance, and is not uncommonly met with at the change of life. It is most common in women who have borne childi’cn. The symptoms consist of the gradual foi’ination of a tough, hard nodule in the breast, usually situated in the peripheral part, tolerably clearly circiim- | scribed, and of rounded form. In size it may vary from a marble to a pigeon’s egg, seldom being larger. It may distinctly increase in size at the menstrual periods, and diminish in the intervals. Its surface is often slightly | nodular, the nodules being formed by the small, tense cysts already mentioned. | If it be grasped and gently pulled upon with one hand while the nipple is held with the other, so as to make the ducts passing from it tense, it can easily be recognized that it is part of the mamma, and not an isolated tumour.