712 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. during- pregnancy, and 34 independently of these conditions. It is most common in primiparm, the tendency to it diminishing with each confinement The right breast is more commonly affected than the left, and occasionally it is double. The causes of the inflammation are by no means certain. It has been supposed to be due to obstruction of a duct, and such an explanation is no doubt a very possible one, but there is no definite evidence in support of it. The fact that it is very frequently preceded by a sore nipple would suggest the possibility of its being due to exteiision from this, either by the lymphatics or ducts. It most commonly commences during the first four weeks after lahoui- or if that period be passed, towards the end of prolonged lactation, especially in weakly women. Hence it is very common amongst the poorer classes, amongst which it is not rare to find children of from one to two years old still at the breast. It is rarely met with in mothers who do not nurse their own children, a fact which, as Billroth points out, is somewhat opposed to the theory that its common cause is obstruction to the flow of milk. The whole gland is rarely affected, but should this hapjDen, it gives rise to great swelling of the breast, with severe aching and lancinating pain, and much constitu- tional disturbance, with considerable elevation of temperature. Much more commonly one lobe only becomes inflamed, most commonly at the outer or lower border of the gland. The local signs are then proportionately lunited, and occasionally the inflammation subsides without reaching the stage of suppuration. As Yelpeau has pointed out, one lobule after another may become inflamed, so that a succession of abscesses forms in different parts of the gland. As the inflammation advances to suppuration, the skin is reddened, assumes a dusky hue, becomes glazed, has a peculiar greasy appearance, and pits on pressure. When matter has fo]-med, the tension of the superficial parts with oedema and fluctuation, perhaps deep-seated, determine its j>resence. 8. Inflammation in the Areolar Tissue between the Mamma and the Pectoral Muscle is of less frequent occurrence than the other forms of mammary inflammation. It arises in some cases apparently independently of any affection of the gland itself ; but in most cases, as Billroth suggests, it is probably due to inflammation and suppuration of a deep lobule of the mamma. In whatever way it arises, the inflammation diffuses itself over the whole of the areolar layer, and almost invariably runs into abscess with considerable rapidity, giving rise to severe pain, of a deep, heavy, and throbbing character, much increased by moving the arm and shoulder, and attended by sweUing, oedema, and a slight red blush upon the skin. The breast becomes prominent, and is conical and projecting, the ■whole organ being pushed forwards by the pressure from behind; it is not readily movable on the pectoral muscles, the sub- cutaneous veins become engorged, and at last abscess forms. It is not always easy in these cases to determine whether suppuration has taken place or not, the depth at which the pus forms rendering it impossible in the early stages to detect fluctuation ; its presence may, however, be suspected on thb occur- rence of deep-seated throbbing pain, subcutaneous oedema, and some superficial redness. The abscess at last points at some part of the margin of the gland, usually at its lower and outer side, to which point the matter seems to gi*ayitatc, after a time, however, it will commonly appear at other points of the circum- ference of the gland, beyond which it always extends, seldom, if ever, perforating the structure. A series of four or five apertures, forming a large circle roun ^ the margin of the mammary gland may thus form. It very commonly happens