IXTUSSUSCEPTIOX. 833 A vj H •A' 47 from stricture, and 2o from matting together of the intestinal coils from chronic peritonitis or cancer. Of the 47 strictures, 2 occurred in the small gut, and 4;') in the large. To these 47) cases may be added 59 collected by Morris and Coupland. Of these 104 strictures of the great intestine, 78 occurred in the rectum and sigmoid flexure, 1!) in the transverse colon or at one of the flexures, and 7 in the cjecum or ileo-colic valve. The Symptoms, in the earlier stages of tliese cases, are commonly those that will Ik) described as indicating stricture of the large intestine ; but, when once complete obstruction has come on, the constipation becomes the most pro- minent symptom. In some instances, this will occur without any antecedent leading to the supposition of the existence of stricture. There may be compa- rativelv little constitutional disturbance at first, but the bowels cannot be made to act, and any attempt at forcing their operation by the administration of purgatives gives rise to sickness and much distress. During the progvess of the attack, eructations, retchings, and even vomiting, are of frequent occurrence, but it seldom happens that this is stercoraceous till the very last; there may be much tympanites, with rumbling and gurgling of the intestines, but most fr’cquently the abdomen fills sloAvly and gradually, and these symptoms do not . occur until after some days have elapsed. The distress of the patient does not depend so much on the length of time that the obstruction has existed, as on ^■the amount of tympanitic distension of the abdomen. The greater this is, the I: more urgent will be the symptoms. In many instances, life is prolonged for several Aveeks, for five or six, even after complete obstruction has set in ; and in some cases a recovery may take place, even though a very considerable time have elapsed from the occuiTence of the obstruction. In the case of a lady ( Whom I attended many year’s ago rvith Mr. Powell, recovery took place, although i;t there had been complete obstruction for upwards of five weeks ; and I haA'e seen (Other cases recover in Avhich from forty to forty-five days had elapsed before :the obstruction was relieved. Lvtussusceptiox, or the invagination of an upper into a lorver portion of he intestine is a common cause of intestinal obstruction, especially in chil- dren. It may occur in three situations—in the ileum, at the ileo-colic vah’e, ■ )rin the large intestine. Its most common seat is at the ileo-colic valve. Of the 124 cases of obstruction tabulated by Bryant, 15 were intussusceptions ; f these, 2 were rectal, 7 ileo-caecal, and 6 in the small intestines. An intus- usception, when examined after death, is found to be composed of three tubes f intestine, one within the other. The outer tube or sheath is composed of he lower part of the intestine. It is thrown into numerous folds, which can eadily be straightened out by slight traction, thus giving rise to apparent •artial reduction of the invagination. The middle, or reflected tube, is turned aside out, so that its mucous membrane is in contact Avith that of the sheath. )n making an incision through this, the inner, or entering tube, is brought Jto view, the serous surface of Avhich is in contact Avith that of the reflected ‘jbe. In the space betAveen these Avill be found the mesentery belonging to ne entering and reflected tubes. If the invagination has commenced at the eo-colic valve, the vermiform appendix also will be found in this space. An itussusception increases entirely at the expense of tlie sheath, the line of ':flection betAveen the entering and reflected tubes remaining unchanged. The ngth of the part invaginated varies greatly. When limited to the small destine it is usually short, not more than tAvo or three inches in length ; in the VOL, II. 3 H