38 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. In tlie Constitutional Treatment of tlie disease, it is necessary to bear in mind that tetanus is an affection of debility, tlie violence of the spasmodic paroxysms giving an appearance of false strength to the patient ; and that the principal source of danger and death is the exhaustion induced liy the energy of the muscular movements. The means adopted should, therefore, have for their object the removal of irritation and the support of the patient’s strength, so as to enable him to hold up against the disease. i Nothing can be more unsatisfactory than the treatment of the Acute form ■ of traumatic tetanus. In it, all medicines are useless as curative agents. But, though medicines are of no avail as means of cure, they may act as palliatives, and afford relief to the patient; and much may be done by the Surgeon, by removing all sources of external irritation, to mitigate his sufferings, and to | place him in a favourable condition to withstand the exhaustion, and to lessen the torture of the spasms. With this view, the first thing to be done is to clear the bowels out well with an aperient dose ; aided, if necessary, by a turpentine enema. The patient should then be kept perfectly quiet in a room by himself, a screen or muslin cm-tains, as recommended by Marshall Hall, being di-awn round the bed, as. noise or movement of any kind increases the spasms greatly. ‘ In order to allay the spinal irritation, the most effectual means consists perhaps in the plan recommended by Todd, of applying ice along the whole length of the spine : this is best done by a caoutchouc spine-bag. ^ This is a powerful depressing agent, and, unless care be taken, may lower the heart’s action too much, or indeed completely extinguish it. It may, however, be applied with safety for six or eight hom’s, the condition of the patient being looked to in the meanwhile. Sedative or antispasmodic agents ; are of no use whatever in acute traumatic tetanus. I have seen many drugs of this kind employed, without producing any effect in lessening the violence of the convulsions. In most cases, however, the inhalation of chloroform, or the administration of chloral, materially lessens their severity, and gives the patient at least temporary ease. In the Subacute or Chronic form of the disease, recovery is much more likely to take place ; and it is only in these cases that antispasmodics and sedatives have been of use, and in these also chloroform and chloral are far more beneficial than in the acute cases. There is a kind of trismus occurring in females, often of a hysterical nature, wMch is at once removed by the in- halation of chloroform. Almost every drug in the pharmacopoeia of a tonic, sedative, or antispasmodic nature, has been employed in tetanus ; and the recovery which has occasionally resulted has been perhaps over hastily at- tributed to the remedy, rather than to the employment of those dietetic and hygienic means, which are of the first importance, by enabling the patient to live on until the disease wears itself out. Tonics, especially iron and quinine, have been employed by some. Elliotson was strongly impressed with the value of the carbonate of iron. Sedatives in all forms—conimn, belladonna, opium, and their alkaloids—have been largely and most ineffectually employed. Miller speaks highly of cannabis indica pushed to narcotism, three grains of the extract, or thirty minims of the tincture, being given every half hour or hour ; and Haughton has employed nicotine in one-drop doses, administered every second hour, ‘with complete success in severe cases of traumatic tetanus. The Calabar bean (^Physostigmd) is the remedy that perhaps deserves