955 EXTENT OF INCISION IN THE PROSTATE. le gland derived from the recto-vesical fascia, which was asserted to remain ninjnred, and to prevent infiltration of urine into the surrounding parts, 'ixperiment on the dead body, and the i)Ost-mortem examination of those who ied after lithotomy, clearly demonstrated the fallacy of these views. No one of one inch in diameter can be removed through a healthy prostate ithont dividing the gland and its capsule for a considerable ])art of their ngth, and if the calculus be of considerable size, the reiiD will be found to cteiid backwards in the floor of the bladder, some way towards the left reter. The danger of urinary infiltration is not in the external parts of the oiind, but in the loose snbperitoneal tissue ; and that distinguished latomist, Ellis, taught many years ago that the separation between the A’ity of the pelvis and the external parts in which a lithotomy wound can be fely made is not the sheath of the prostate but the lateral and anterior true raments of the bladder, or in other words, the recto-vesical fascia. Hence the cisiou may be safely carried through the whole length of the lower and outer de of the prostate up to the iuy neck of the bladder, h’ovided it do not pass i<yond the attachment of i*e lateral ligament of the Iradder, and so open up the ose snbperitoneal tissue Lound this viscus. k There are, however, other ['.ngei-s beside extravasation urine that may arise from 0 free use of the knife in t-e deeper parts of the wound, VKJcially liaBmorrhage from te venous plexus suiTounding ee prostate and woimd of the ■itum. For these reasons I eefer to incise the prostate to a moderate extent, enlarging the aperture by retching with the fore-finger. lln the section of the prostate, then, two points have specially to be attended :: one is, that the knife in entering be not pushed forwards at too great an [Lgle with the staff, so as to cut widely ; and the other is, that in its with- Liwal the blade be kept steadily in contact Avith the staff. Indeed, I believe kit there is more danger of doing mischief in the withdrawal than in the [.ory of the knife ; for, if it leave the staff for a moment, all guide is lost, and ; edge may sweejA downwards through the base of the ]>rostate and the neck the bladder. As the knife is withdrawn, the left index-finger is pushed •'Wards into the aperture in the prostate, Avhich is then dilated by its pressure a sufficient extent for the introduction of the forceps, which are slijiped in the finger is withdrawn, and for the extraction of the stone. This part the ojieration may veiy conveniently be performed, as Avas usually done by uton, at the moment Avhen the Surgeon is stooping down, engaged in icting his forceps. The dilatation of the jirostate is readily effected ; for 8 structure, though dense, is friable, and breaks doAvn easily under someiAdiat cible pressure by the finger. In this Avay, by a mere notching of the Fig. 859.—Incision in Prostate.