A DBJV0-FIJ^7^0J/A—A BFiYO-SA RCOMA. 721 occuiTed ill University College Hospital in the last fifteen years. The patient j Avas a middle-aged Avmman, and the tumour, Avhich AA’’as about the size of a hen’s egg, was of stony hardness. It Avas thought to be a scirrhous cancer, but as there aa’us some doubt, a deep incision aa’us made into it before removing the breast. It AA'as found to be exceedingly dense, creaked under the knife, ;.md no capsule Avas recognized. After removal of the breast, it Avas found ;:o be clearly defined and surrounded by a distinct but dense capsule from .'*vhich it could be dissected out, leaving the mammary tissue untouched. Microscopic examination shoAved it to be composed of pure dense fibrous -issue, without a trace of glandular structure. Chondroma and Osteoma.—Tumours of the breast containing cartilage laA’e been recorded, but are of extreme rarity. Billroth mentions a case of a large sarcoma of the mamma in AAdiich small nodules of true bone were biiud. Adenoma, Adexo-Fibroma, Adeno-Sarcoma, CrSTO-SARCOiiA.—A group )f tumours closely related to each other pathologically, though difiering con- liderably clinically, are included under these names. The essential features < ommon to all are—first, the presence of spaces, either flattened and slit-like or ' orming distinct cysts, lined Avith a small cubical epithelium, usually in several uyei-s but occasionally single (Vol. I., p. 995, Figs. 383, 384). The spaces I' ontain a variable amount of fluid, in some cases so small in amount as to be ■carcely recognizable, in others distending the cavities into Avell-marked cysts, •eldom exceeding an inch or an inch and a half in diameter. The bulk of he tumour is composed of the mterstitial tissue betAA^eeen the epithelium- : ned spaces. This tissue varies from fully deAMoped fibrous tissue to the :implest embryonic tissue, and may jiresent eA^ery stage between. Thus : may be composed of small spindle-cells with numerous fibres between them, tf imperfectly developed fibrous tissue, infiltrated with small round cells, of nrge spindle-cells, of dehcate fibres Avith stellate cells and mucous intercellular labstance, or of various combinations of these structiu’es. Lastly, AAdien the [oaces develope into cysts, they often present intracystic groAvths of great ;ze forming the most marked feature of the tumour. These groAAThs are ) )rmed of processes of the interstitial tissue of the tumour projecting into the lyst and are covered Avith a layer of epithelium. They are often branched, : id may in some cases completely fill the cavity into AA'hich they groAv. They lay sprout from all sides at once, and then form a closely-packed foliated ^aass, AA'ithout any clear evidence of the mode of growth remainmg. In other I'lses a pedunculated mass springs up fi-om a single point in the cyst-wall, and i.,ay project into it, still suiTounded by a certain amount of fluid, or may 'impletely fill it, displacing the fluid and being surrounded by the cyst-wall ‘: by a capsule. In Avhatever Avay the tumour gi’OAA'^s it remains, as a rule, completely sur- .*nnded hy a capsule of areolar tissue, and forms no adhesions to the surrounding arts unless it be allowed to reach such a size as to excite inflammation by the ’ ’essure and tension it exerts. Of the causes and mode of origin of these giwths little is kuoAvn. illroth states that they commence by an oA'ergroAvth of the connectiA'c tissue I UTounding the acini and ducts. But whatever point tliey may commence I it is cA-ident that in their subsequent development the groAvth of the lithelium is as es.sential a part of the process as is that of the interstitial VOL. II. 3 ^