UlilNAJiY CALCULUS ASD LITHOTOMY. 966 forceps (Fio-. 844) Avill be- found useful, tlie absence of metal in the most convex part of the blade lessening materially the bulk of the instriunent vhen grasping- a stone. In the event of the calculus being- too large tor extraction by the ordinary lateral operation, -what course should the Surgeon pursue ? M’hree are open to him : 1. Division of the Right Side of the Jh-ostate from the interior of the ANOund ; 2. C lushing the Calculus in the Dladder, and then removing it ; and The performance of the Recto-ATsical Operation. The Incision of the Right Side of the Prostate gives considerable additional space, and is sufficient for most ordinary purposes ; very large calculi being fortunately seldom met with. This section may be made by introducing into the wound a probe-pointed scalpel (Fig. 842), guided by the index-finger, and veiy cautiously dividing- the right side of the prostate doAvn- wards and outAvards, in the same direction that the section of the left has been made. This procedure must be cautiously done. The parts, being put Avell on the stretch as the stone is draAvn forAvards, are carefully notched, and thus yield to the traction. Ill two cases I have seen Liston do this. In one the patient recovered, in the other he died of diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue of the pelvis. I have practised it once on a patient at the Hospital, who made an excellent recovery. The second plan, that of Crushing the Calculus in the- Bladder through the Avound in the perinmuin, would certainly be a hazardous procedure. The irritation that AAmukl necessarily be set up by the, large lithotrite or crusher (Fig. 8Ga) that has been iuAnnted for this purpose, by the iiresence of Fig. 8(35.'—T.ithotomj' Crusher and Drill the fiagmeiits of stouc, and- by the nccessary for large Calculi. difficulty aiid delay of clearing them out of the visciis, Avould be a serious and possibly fatal complication of the operation. In the event of its being impossible to extract the calculus through the periiiEeum, I think it Avould be safer to adopt the third course, and to perform the redo-vesical operaiion, Avhich will presently be desenbed. Should, howeA^er, the unusually large size of the stone have been recognized before the coinniencement of the operation, it might be thought more safe to jiractise at once the high than the lateral operation. Dif5.c-ulty from Fracture of the Calculus.—The difficulty of extraction is greatly increased if the stone be broken. Fracture of a calculus is of tAvo kinds. In the one case the stone is simply broken into several fragments, or splinters, so to speak, are detached from it. This accident may happen to hard as Avell as to soft calculi, and is gcficrally OAving to the Surgeon employing too much pressure on the blades of the forceps, fearing that the stone may