DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 75^ Haemorrhage is necessarily a source of danger in many-cases, but it presents nothing requiring special consideration. The following are the (jeneral rules aj^plicahle to all abdominal operations:— 1. The room in which the operation is to be jierformed ibust not be too cold, especially if the abdominal cavity is to be widely opened and the viscera exposed. 2. Ill those cases in which it is possible to do so, the bowels should be thoroughly emptied by a purgative the night before, and an enema on the day of the operation. 3. In all operations on the lower half of the abdomen the bladder should be emptied by a catheter immediately before commencing. 4. ThQ patient when placed upon the table should be warmly wrapped up, lest the shock be increased by chilling the body. If the spray is to be used, the body must be covered with a mackintosh cloth, or a sheet of oiled silk with a hole cut in it through which the region of the operation is exposed. The under surface of this may be spread with adhesive plaster for one inch round the aperture to keep it in position. 6. The instruments and sponges, &c., and the hands of the Surgeon and his assistants must be cleaned and disinfected with carbolic acid, as already described (Vol. I., p. 247). During the operation all sponges must be squeezed as dry as possible, a twisted towel being used if necessary, lest a dangerous amount of carbolic acid be introduced into the peritoneal cavity. They should be washed in warm carbolic lotion to avoid chilling the parts. 6. The sponges should be counted before and after any operation in which they are used inside the abdominal cavity. 7. All haemorrhage from the abdominal wall must be arrested before the peritoneum is opened. 8. If during the operation the intestines are exposed, they should be held on one side, and retained in the abdominal cavity by-a large flat sponge squeezed as dry as possible after having been well carbolized. Should they be exposed externally, as in operations for hernia, intussusception, &c., or escape from the abdomen, they must be covered with a linen rag|’ several folds thick, wrung out of a warm 1 in 40 solution of carbolic acid. 9. When the operation is completed, if the abdominal cavity have beeni’ opened sufficiently to admit the hand, it must be cleaned with sponge4', squeezed as dry as possible and passed into the most dependent parts of the cavity, one after another, until they retmm quite clean. This is a most im portant part of the operation, and success in many cases depends to a gveai , extent upon the thoroughness with which it is done. 10. In closing the wound, the deep stitches, which should be of carbolic silk, must include the peritoneum, so that the serous surfaces shall be brough closely in contact. The importance of this in securing primary union wfu l demonstrated experimentally many years ago by Sir Spencer Wells. AVheii th(; ^ abdominal walls are very lax, as after the removal of a large tumour, th(l| stitches may be made to catch the peritoneum, the aponeurosis or sheath o the muscles, and the skin and subcutaneous tissue missing the muscula fibres ; but if there is likely to be considerable strain, it is better to pass tli deep stitches completely through the abdominal wall about three-quarters o an inch from the edge of the wound. Both ends of the deep stitches must h passed from within the abdomen to avoid any risk of jmncturiug the intestiu<®te, fll