EXCISION OF JOINTS. 370 When the sinuses open entirely Ixiliind it is possible to excise the joint In an incision made through the posterior fibres of the deltoid, commeiiciiij immediately below the root of the acromion, and carried downwards foj an inch and a half or two inches, but not so low as to endanger the cir- cumflex nerve and artery. The space thus obtained is limited, and does noi- allow of a methodical sub-periosteal excision being performed as above described I but in most cases the capsule is softened by the disease, and the adhesion of the tendons so far loosened that there is no difficulty in forcing the head of Fig. 536.—Excision of Shoulder-joint. Elliidical Inci.sion. the bone out of the wound. This operation was performed with the best results a few years ago by Christopher Heath in University College Hospital. After excision of the joint, the arm must be well supported in a sling, the elbow especially being raised. A pad should be placed in the axilla to prevent the tendency of the pectoralis major, teres major, and latissimus dorsi to draw the arm inwards. The union, which is by granulation, is usually slow, and must be conducted on ordinary principles. Result.—The shoulder-joint in its normal condition possesses five distinct movements : 1. Rotation; 2. Abduction and Elevation; 3. Adduction ; 4 and 5, movements in the antero-posterior direction. These movements vary greatly in importance in the course of the ordinary affairs of life. The most useful are those of abduction, and the two in the autero-posterior direction. ^ These are requisite in all ordinary trades and for the guidance of the hand in most of the common occupations of life. The movements of elevation are > seldom required, except by those who follow climbing occupations, as sailors, bricklayers, &c. Now the mode of performing the operation, as well as the operation itself, will materially influence these different movements. Thus, if the deltoid be cut completely across by an elliptical incision, the power of abduction of the arm and of its elevation, will be permanently lost. If its fibres be merely split by a longitudinal incision (Fig. 534), they may be preserved or regained in great part. The movements of rotation, &c., which