Xlll COXTENTS. i»ac;k Eczema of Nipple—Abscess of Areola—^Milk-Ab.scess—Inilammation ami Abscess in Subcutaneous Areolar Tissue—1 ntlammation of Mammary Gland Inflamma- tion in Areolar Tissue between the Mamma and Pectoral Muscle treatment Chronic Inflammation—Chronic Interslitial IMastitis—Chronic Abscess Diffused —Treatment—Enc3’sted—Diagnosis—Treatment—Tubercle—Syphilitic Disease of Mamma . . . . ' 710—71fl TfAIOURS OF THE BUEAST Nox-Maligxaxt Tumours—lletention — Serous — Il3^datid C3’sts — Lipoma — Fibroma—Chondroma and Osteoma—Adeno-flbroma—Adcno-sarcoraa—Painful Mammary Tumour—Treatment of Adeno-fibroma and Adeno-sarcoma—Cysto- sarcoma—Sarcomata—Diagnosis—Treatment—Sanguineous Cysts—Tumours con- taining Foetal Remains 717—728 Caxcer of the Breast—A^aricties—Scirrhus—Symptoms—Implication of skin— Pain—Retraction of Nipple—Implication of Axillary Glands and Viscera— Constitutional Cachexy—Duration of Disease—Structure of Scirrhus—Encepha- loicl—Colloid—Duct-cancer—Causes of Cancer of Breast—Sex—Age—Injuries— Inflammation—Eczema of Nipple — Diagnosis — Treatment — Compression— Caustics—Operation—Question of Relapse—Prolongation of Life by Operation— Cases Unfit for Operation—Doubtful Cases—Cases Favourable for Operation— Return of Cancer after Operation—Amputation of the Breast—Mortality after— Axillo-mammary Cancer 728—750 Diseases of the Male Breast—Scirrhus Cancer 750—751 Axillary Tumours—Strumous Disease of Axillary Glands—Simple Tumours— L3'mphadeuoma of Axillary Glands—Fibromata—Sarcomata . . . 751—752 Chapter LXL—Diseases of the Abdomen. Ixtroductory Remarks—Operative Treatment of Diseases of the Abdominal and Pelvic Viscera—Septic Peritonitis and Septiemmia—Shock after Operations— Hmmorrhage 753—757 H ERXIA defined—Structure—Sac—Neck—Body—Contents—Enteroccle— Epiplocele —Entero-Epiplocele—Adhesions—Fluid—Hydrocele of Hernial Sac—Loose Foreign Bodies in Sac—Signs of Hernia—Intestinal Hernia—Omental Hernia— Cmcal Hernia—Hernia of Bladder, or Cystocele—Exciting Causes—Predisposing Causes—Sex—Age—Occupation—Other Causes—Conditions presented b3’’ Hernia 767—7(53 Reducible Hernia—Definition—Application of Truss—Radical Cure of Hernia— Wutzers Operation—AVood’s Operation 7G3—770 IRREDUCIBLE Hernia—Causcs of IiToducibilit3'-—S3nnptoms—Treatment—Inflamed Irreducible Hernia—Treatment—Incarcerated Hernia—Treatment . . 770—772 Strangulated Hernia—Definition—Mechanism of Strangulation—Seat of Stric- ture—Local Effects of Strangulation—Inflammation of Gut after relief of Strangulation—Symptoms—Local Signs—Constitutional S3'mptoms—Modifica- tions of S3'mptoms—’Diagnosis — Treatment — Taxis—Auxiliary Measures— Persistence of S3-inptoms after Reduction—Treatment .... 772—783 Operation for Strangulated Hernia—Operation in which the Sac is opened —Exposure of the Sac—Opening the Sac—Division of the Stricture—Reduction —Treatment of tlic Sac—Treatment of the AVound—After-Treatment—Accidents and Alodifications of the Operation—Peritonitis—Acute Catarrlial Inflammation —Management of Congested Intestine—Of Tightly Constricted Intestine—Of Gangrenous Intestine—Of Adhesions—Of Omentum—AVounds of the Intestine— AVminds of Arteries—Sloughing of the Sac—Artificial Anus and Fiecal Fistula— Treatment—Operation without Opening the Sac—Redaction in Mass—Causcs— S3'mptoms—Treatment—H3'drocclc of the Hernial Sac .... 783—801