93 FATTY AXl) CALCAREOUS DEGENERATIONS. An atfection of the arteries of an uncertain nature not causing obliteration has been observed, which, from its giving rise to acute pain and tenderness Avith some swelling in the line of the vessel, must be supposed to be inflamma- tory. A case of this kind has been recorded by J. H. Morgan, in the Trans- actions of the Clinical Society for 1881. The patient, a man aged 40, Avas attacked Avith scA'ere pain in the line of the right femoral artery ; the vessel Avas acutely tender, but there Avas no redness of the skin coA'ering it. The condition Avas at fii-st limited to a feAv inches of the artery near the groin, but gradually extended to the popliteal space and leg. Slight oedema and some SAvelling of the lymphatic glands became apparent Avheu the disease reached the leg. The vessel pulsated forcibly and there Avas no thrombosis. He had some yeai’s previously suffered from a similar affection of the opposite leg, and Avhile still under observation, the right brachial and carotid Avere successively affected. Altogether the second attack lasted over five months. It Avas not apparently due to S}Tphilis, gout, or rheumatism. From the absence of throm- bosis it AA’Ould seem probable that the disease Avas a periarteritis. PRIMARY DEGENERATIONS OP ARTERIES. Fatty Degeneration.—Fatty degeneration, except as a part of chronic endarteritis, is not a particularly frequent or important change in arteries. In the aorta, even in young subjects, yelloAV patches of small size and irregular form, and very slightly if at all elevated above the normal siu’face of the intima, are not uncommon. If one of these be peeled off and examined microscopi- cally it Avill 1)6 found to present stellate patches of fat-gTanules in the most superficial layers of the intima, immediately beneath the endothelium. These are the result of fatty degeneration of the branched cells that are normally present in this part. The affection seems of no importance, and its cause is not known. In later life, fatty degeneration affecting the intima more deeply is some- times met Avith unaccompanied by any of the signs of atheroma. The degene- ration may extend to the endothelium, Avhich then disintegrates and is cast off, leaA-ing a rough surface exposed. This condition has been described as faitij erosion. It is most common in the arch of the aorta. Through such a surface the blood may force its AA'ay into the middle coat, and thus give rise to the condition to be subsequently described as “ dissecthig aneurismF Fatty gi-anules are not uncommonly found in old age in the external coats of the smaller arteries, but they are of no pathological importance. Calcification or Calcareous Degeneration.—We haA'e already seen that the calcareous plates so common in the aorta and its primary branches are the result of the calcification of the products of chronic endarteritis. In the smaller arteries, principally in those of the third and fourth magnitudes, as the popliteal, the tibials, the brachial, radial and ulnar, primary calcification is commonly met Avith. It commences by the deposit of lime-salts, in a granular form, arranged in lines running transversely to the axis of the vessel; these lines gradually increase in breadth until they coalesce laterally, the intervening spaces lieing filled up and the A'essel converted into a rigid tube, in the early stages Avhile the calcareous matter is arranged so as to form Hues round the vessel, the condition is termed annular calcijiralion (Fig. 4.37). When these lines have coalesced it is often called lubular calcification (Fig. 408).