130 ANEURISM. to efface tliis, as simply to restrain and moderate somewhat the flow of blood into it. Should the aneurism be so situated that pressure can be exercised upon the artery above the point ligatured, tliis should be had recourse to either by the finger or by instrument, and will be both safer and more likely to be effectual than direct pressure. I succeeded in this way in curing a very remarkable case of recurrent pulsation in a popliteal aneurism. The patient, a man about thirty-five years of age, was admitted into University College Hospital for an aneurism, about the size of an orange, in the right ham. Treatment by compression was employed, without any effect being produced in the tumour, for three months. During this period compression was employed in all forms—by Carte’s instrument, the weight, the finger, and flexion. I then ligatured the superficial femoral artery in »Scarpa’8 triangle. The pulsation was arrested in the tumour when the ligature was tied, but returned in a slight degree in about an hour, and slowly increased, never becoming at all forcible, but being very distinct. The ligature separated on the fourteenth day. The limb was bandaged, and a pad applied over the aneurism without any effect; and the limb was raised, but still the pulsation continued. Carte’s compressor was again applied to the common femoral artery, and used for about three hours in an intermittent manner, when the pulsation finally ceased. In the event of the pulsation not disappearing under the infiuence of pres- sure, conjoined with rest, dietetic means, and the local application of cold, there are three courses open to the Surgeon : 1, To ligature the vessel higher up ; 2, to perform the old operation of opening the sac ; and, 3, to amputate, if the aneurism be situated in a limb. With regard to ligaturing the artery at a higher point, I am not acquainted with any cases that throw much light on the probable success of such an opera- tion. We know that the ligature of an artery high up for secondary hasmor- : rhage, after previous deligation of it, is a most disastrous procedure. But here the conditions are by no means identical with, or even similar to, those that |. accompany recurrent pulsation. In the case of secondary haemorrhage, there has usually not been time for the full development of the collateral circulation ; whereas, in the case of recurrent pulsation, many weeks would ; i probably have elapsed before the second operation would become necessary, so i; that ample time would be given for the enlargement of the anastomoses; and i: besides this, the very occurrence of the return of pulsation may be taken as : i evidence of an unusually free anastomosing circulation. I think, therefore. Ip that if such a case were by any possibility to occur, in which recurrent pulsa- j tion could not be checked by the application of pressure, digital or instru- | mental, to the artery above the point originally ligatured, aided by the other j ■ appropriate local and constitutional means that have been mentioned above, the Surgeon would adopt the proper course by ligaturing the artery higher up, ' ex. gr.., the common femoral or external iliac, if the superficial femoral had been the one previously tied. In the event of this not being thought advis- able, he must choose between one or other of the two remaining operations, viz., amputation, or opening the sac. Of these measures, I should certainly prefer amputation, as offering the most favourable chance to the patient. The operation of opening the sac, turning out its contents, and ligaturing the vessel supplying it, is in any circumstances a procedure fraught with the greatest danger to the patient, and full of difficulty to the Surgeon, even when be | i