395 SELECTION OF GASES FOR EXCISION. f they are used, care must be taken to apply enough wool, a thickness of at I; thigh and the calf to such an extent that it is not in actual contact with the I • skin in the ham. It must be fixed in position by a flannel-bandage above j; and below the knee, over which a firm plaster-of-Paris bandage must be tv “ * ' applied. Heron AVatson recommends a soft iron rod or bar, applied ante- I riorly, reaching from the groin to the toes. The upper part is straight for the thigh, in the middle is an arch passing over the knee ; the lower part is ; straight for the leg, and bent at an angle forwards opposite the ankle to fit : the dorsum of the foot. At the lower end opposite the ankle is a hook by which the limb can be suspended. This splint having been properly padded, is fixed in position with a plaster-of-Paris bandage. Thomas’s splint with a i foot piece (Fig. 548) also will be fomid a very efficient apparatus, and may be t|fsecured above and below the knee with a plaster-of-Paris bandage. By any of these means the limb may be immovably fixed, while the knee is sufficiently .exposed to allow of dressing. Wliatever apparatus is chosen, it must be applied while the patient is still under chloroform before leaving the operating table. As soon as the wound is healed, the limb may be encased completely in a plaster-of-Paris or starched bandage till the bones are firmly united to i'leeach other. If proper attention be not paid to the position of the limb, bowing outwards :1s apt to take place. In order to prevent displacement, it has been proposed I to divide the hamstring tendons; this, however, I have never found necessary, : nor does it seem to me to be advisable to complicate the operation by such an addition to it. The best dressing for an excision of the knee is that which requires changing k least frequently, and most efficiently prevents decomposition of the discharges. \\ hatever dressing be chosen it should be changed at the end of the first 24 lours to get rid of the early discharge. The dry antiseptic wool-dressings, i^ivhich can often be left imtouched for 2 or 3 weeks, give excellent results ; but east three inches being required. The form of dressing is, hoivever, of secondary importance to the mainte- lance of perfect rest. If this be attended to, osseous ankylosis will ensue, and I good and useful straight limb result. In tw'o cases I have succeeded in getting I good limb with a partially movable joint; both these cases were in children; -nd I am disposed to think that in young patients this result may often be atisfactorily attained. In adults, however, osseous ankylosis should always je aimed at. Selection of Cases for Excision.—It is generally recognized that excision )f the knee should not be undertaken after the age of 30. Grant has recorded ^‘S successfully operated on as late as 53, but these are quite exceptional, iixcision is not as a rule to be recommended in very young children, as it is :ipt to arrest the growth of the limb to such an extent as to render it useless i.n after-life. ^loreover, incision of the joint and scraping is usually success- ul at this age. About 14 or 15 is considered by most Surgeons the most favour- ble age for the operation. It should not be undertaken when there is any dsceral disease, especially if there is tubercular disease of the lungs or albu- ninoid degeneration of the liver. Extensive disease of the bones is unfavour- ible to the operation. It need hardly be said that the operation should not be indertaken when there is hope of cure by simpler means. In the International congress of 1881 Kocher of Berne maintained that in white swelling e.xcision