7 i8o IJISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. down, and to include the whole in a strong ligature, tied round it as tightly as possible. The section is then made a quarter of an inch l>elow this, and the operation is completed as usual ; the stump of the cord may retract into the inguinal canal, but cannot bleed if properly tied, and will always be under command by drawing upon the ligature. Tliis plan of tying the cord en masse was at one time generally adopted in all ciises of castration, but is. not now commonly employed. The objection to it is, that by compressing the nerves of the cord with, the ligature the after-pain is increased ; but this certainly does not always happen, for, in the instances in which I have done it, but little pain was complained of; and the practice in malignant disease of the testicle has the advantage of enabling the Surgeon to divide the cord at a higher point than he otherwise could; which advantage is still further increased by the parts within and below the ligature sloughing away, and thus eventually carrying the section to a level with the point tied. There is one danger that may occur in castration in young children. It is. that in young subjects the processus vaginalis testis may not be obliterated,, and that thus the peritoneum may be opened up into the wound on dividing the cord. In one case I have known this condition to lead to fatal peritonitis. G-ENEBAL DIAGNOSIS OF SCKOTAL TUMOUBS. The diagnosis of scrotal tumours is not only of considerable importance, but is often attended with very great difficulty: the more so, as they are frequently associated with one another, so that much tact and care are required to dis- criminate their true nature. Thus it is not uncommon to find a hydrocele and a hernia ; a hydrocele and a varicocele ; or these affections co-existing- with a solid tumour of the testicle. In other cases, again, as in the annexed figure (979), an encephaloid tumour may co- exist with a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and with an encysted hydrocele of the cord; and the different forms of hydrocele may occur together. Tumours of the scrotum may, from a diag- nostic point of view-, be divided into two distinct classes :—1, the Eeducible ; and 2, the Irreducible. 1. Reducible Tumours.—These are Hernia, Congenital Hydrocele, Diffuse Hydrocele of the cord, and Varicocele ; in all of which the swelling can be made to disappear more or less completely by iiressure and by the patient lying down; reappearing on the removal of the pressure, or on his assuming the erect posture. The mode in which the tumour disappears, tends greatly to establish its diagnosis ; though the general character of the swelling, and the history of the case, afford important collateral evidence on this point. a. In Hernia there are the ordinary signs of this affection, such as impulse on coughing, &c. On reducing the tumour, it wdll bo found that its return into the abdomen is accompanied by a gurgling noise, and l)y the sudden slip Fig. 979.—Encci)haloid Testicle with Hydroceles of the Tunica Vagi- nalis and of the Cord.