^SOUNDING FOR STONE. 945 0 Fig. 841.—Souiuling for Encj’stecl Calculu.s. |:mes, but not at others (Fig. 841); if the stone always appear to be fixed in le situation ; and if the beak of the instrument cannot be made to pass Hind it, so as to isolate it, but a kind of tumour projecting through the [ialls of the bladder is felt, around or on one side of the point where the dcuhis is struck. The fasciculated, roughened, and sacculated comlition of ihe hladder may aierally be detected liy the way in which the beak of the instrument grates id mbs over tlie organ. The size of the calculus is best determined by a lithotrite. It is true that •I^Surgeon may sometimes come to a decision as to the bulk of a calculus, by It ^iseiwing the extent of surface along which the sound is in contact with the one, a.s the instrument is being withdrawn. But a very rough guess only n be made in this way; and I liave frcHjuently seen very experienced irgeons deceived in theii’ estimate of the size of a calculus, mistaking perhaps veral small ones lying together for one large one. By introducing a litho- VOL. II. 3 p i find the stone. The stone is often missed in sounding, especially when small, r l>y being carried to and fro as the urine and the bladder are moved backwards s, iiid forwards by rough manipulation. It will be found, if the jiarts are allowed ::o become quiescent, that the stone falls to the bottom behind the prostate, vvvhere it will be found by a gentle taj) of the sound first on one side then on the other. By conducting the sounding properly, the Surgeon may usually ascertain : iot only the existence of a stone, but its size and hardness ; whether it be • jingle, if it be encysted, and the general state of the bladder ; with all ot vhich it is of importauce that he should be acquainted before undertaking uiy operation. A good deal of this information may be elicited by the ordinary •oimd, but some of the points can be accurately determined only by sounding vith the lithotrite. The hardness of the stone may usually be judged of by the more or less lear ringing character of the click ; a uric acid or oxalate of lime calculus •iving a sharper sound than a phosphatic concretion. A calculus may generally be known to be encysted if the sound strike it at