MANAGEMENT OF TIGllTLY-NlFFED GUT. 79i or depression is left upon it, it seldom recovers, whether the whole of the coil of gut have been thus affected, or only a small portion of its diameter. It is remarkable how very quickly changes which arc incompatible with life may ensue in a portion of gut that has been very tightly stangulated. I have known a coil of intestine, that had been but eight hours strangulated before the operation was performed, so tightly constricted as not to regain its vitality after reduction (Fig._7Dl). In such cases the patient usually dies of peritonitis in the course of a few days without the bowels having acted, all peristaltic motion having neces- sarily Ixien annihilated at the injured poinL On examination after death, the constricted intestine will be found to present all the appearances of gangrene, beiug of a black or ashy-grey colour, with- out having any flocculi of lymph deposited upon its surface, though these may be in abundance in the neighbouring parts. From the very unfavourable result of those cases in which there has been very tight nipping of the protruded bowel, a very cautious prognosis should be given ; and, in reducing the gut after division of the stricture, care should be taken not to push it far back into the abdomen, but to leave it near the inner ring ; so that, in the event of its ultimately giving way, there may be less risk of fseculent extra- vasation into the peritoneal cavity. In those cases in which the nipping has been very severe, the sulcus being distinctly marked, and the intestine exces- sively dark and congested, though not actually gangrenous, it would, I think, be better, after di\'iding the stricture, to leave the gut outside the ring than to return it; the reduction of intestine in this state being almost invariably ' followed by fatal peritonitis. It is important to observe that it is not always possible to tell certainly • whether the gut is past recovery or not, for intestine which has been 1 severely nipped, may not be able to recover its \dtality, and will fall : into a state of gangrene after being reduced, may not, at the time of t its exposure, present, the characters of putrescence ; there is no fetor, no ; green or pulpy appearance, no loss of polish, nor separation of peritoneum ; i it is simply of a dark pui-ple or morone colour, and that it has been tightly 1 nipped is evident from the sulcus upon it. There are no signs of gangrene, t simply because sufficient time has not elapsed for putrefaction to set in. As, > when a pile or naevus has been tied, though vitality be extinct in the part, • which is swollen and purple, some time must elapse before signs of putrescence ' manifest themselves, so it may bo with a strictured gut which has lost its vitality. Management of Gangrenous Intestine.—When the intestine is actually s gangrenous, the integuments covering the tumour will be infiltrated, brawny, I and duskily congested, and the structures immediately overlying the sac ' matted together ; the sac will contain fetid dark-coloured serum or pus ; and the softened, lacerable, or pulpy look of the protruded part, its loss of lustre.