396 EXCISIOX OF JOINTS. of the knee ensures n more rapid cure and a better limb than any conservative method of treatment, but this view is not generally accepted. If the disease is recognized snfhciently early, and treated jn-operly by perfect rest of the joint, excision should be required only in exceptional cases. Results.—In determining the propriety of performing the operation, there are two points to be considered : 1. The danger attending it, and 2. The utility of the limb left after operation. 1. Statistics have been very abundantly published with regard to the opera- tion of excision of the knee, with the object partly of showing the absolute mortality and partly of contrasting excision with amputation. At the present time these require complete revision; first, because the death-rate has l)eeii greatly reduced by the improved after-treatment, and secondly, because many Surgeons perform the operation in hospital-practice, not merely as a substitute for amputation in cases past cure by any other means, but as a means of rapid cure replacing prolonged conservative treatment. The following are amongst the most important of the older statistical records. Penieres, writing in 1869, gives the statistics of 600 cases in which excision of the knee had been performed. Of 431 cases operated on for disease, 300 recovered and 131 died—a mortality of 30 per cent. The result of excision for gunshot-injury has already been alluded to at p. 235, Vol. I., as generally unsatisfactory. On comparing the mortality after amputation of the thigh with that follow- ing excision of the knee-joint, some statistics show no very material difference in the rate of mortality after the two operations. In 1869, Swain found that, in 472 cases of excision of the knee-joint collected by Price, Mac Cormac, and himself, there were 116 deaths, or 24‘5 per cent, ; while in 54 amputations of the thigh there were 13 deaths, or 24 per cent. Other recent statistics, again, show decidedly in favour of excision. Willett has collected the cases that occurred at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital during a period of six years. He finds that of 38 cases of excision 8 proved fatal; w^hilst of 84 cases of amputation of the thigh for disease no fewer than 37 died—showing a preponderance in favour of excision over amputation in the ratio of 21 against 44 per cent, of deaths. Bryant, however, says that the mortality after the two operations varies much according to age. Thus, among patients under 20 years of age, in 69 amputations of the thigh for disease of the knee, 3 only died, while of 97 cases of excision, 27 died ; in 119 amputations between the ages of 20 and 40, 38 died, while of 74 excisions, 39 died. He hence concluded that, during the earlier period of life, excision is a far more fatal operation than amputation; whilst at more advanced ages, though still more fatal, the balance in favour of amputation is less striking. The following may be given as examples of later results. Holmes states that at Guy’s Hospital, where some of the Surgeons are strong advocates of early excision performed w'ith antiseptic precautions, 89 joints were excised in a period of 5 years with only 6 deaths. Kocher, also an advocate of early antiseptic excision, in 1881 recorded 64 cases ■with 6 deaths, 3 from septic poisoning in the early days of the antiseptic treatment, 1 from hmmorrhage, 1 from carbolic-acid-poisouing, and 1 fi’oin acute tuberculosis. i\Iessing, in order to illustrate the effects of the mode of dressing, has collected 92 cases from the hospital at Kiel; 21 were performed before the introduction of the