DISEASES OF THE NECK—CYSTS. ■•4 ill. 32i ::]Q ■a ■ i'll "21 .'.it /Ji- ;itv ■ ) 7'^ ‘•Oi. I. Jtl Till ery {dx [iej i tb il!: i&ii: ¥ •rlllf 4 5^5 The Unilocxilar Serous Cyst or Hydrocele of the Neck is of somewhat doubtful origin, but they are usually supposed to arise iu spaces left by the imperfect closure of the branchial clefts. These tumours were accurately described by Maunoir and Phillips. They may be congenital, but more commonly appear in children or early adult life. The cyst is usually situated in the posterior inferior triangle, but has been met with also in front of the sterno-mastoid between that muscle and the jaw, forming a rounded tumour, smooth, tense, and elastic, and filled with a yellow or chocolate-coloured serous fluid. It may attain so large a size as to interfere with deglutition and respiration. The largest I have seen was of the size of an orange. The skin covering this tumoiu is not discoloured, in some cases of natural thickness, in others thin and expanded, so as to give a bladder-like appearance to the growth. The Treatment of this tumour consists in tapping, when complete collapse of the cyst takes place ; it however soon fills again. A permanent cure may be effected by injection with iodine, or by passing a seton across. It is usually impossible to dissect it out owing to the depth of its attachments and the thinness of its wall. 3. Blood-Cyst or Haematocele of the Neck.—This may be merely one of the cysts just described into which hmmorrhage has accidentally taken place. The true blood-cysts, however, are much more serious ; when punc- tured pure blood escapes, sometimes almost arterial in tint, and even if the cyst be emptied it speedily fills again. They have been met with in close con- nection with the great vessels of the neck. Their origin is not certainly knoAvn, but some have supposed them to originate from a cyst-like dilatation of one of the large veins of the neck. In others no communication has been found with any large vessels, but the lining membrane was highly vascular. The Treatment consists in puncturing the cyst Avith a fine trochar and in- jecting iodine or perchloride of iron. If the cyst could be partially emptied by pressure, showing communication Avith a large vein, this would evidently not be justifiable. Gay has successfully dissected one out, which lay in close contact with the carotid sheath. 4. Deep Atheromatous Cysts are very rare. They are of congenital origin, and arise from inclusion of a fold of skin during closure of the branchial clefts (Yol. I., p. 974). Their most common situations are below the jaAA', in the middle line pushing upAvards beneath the tongue and along the anterior border of the stemo-mastoid. The only Treatment consists in dissecting them out. The operation may be A^ery difficult, owing to the relations of the cyst-Avall to the large vessels and other important parts. i). The Bursal Cysts occur in the middle line about the hyoid bone and the front of the larynx. They have already been described Avith diseases of bursa) (p. 481). 0. True Hydatid Cysts sometimes form in the neck. A Avoman A\'as under my care at the Hospital for a hydatid tumour of the Irier, Avhich I tapped ; scA'cn years afteiwards she presented herself Avith a thinned-AA'alled cla.stic semi-ti’ansyjarcnt tumour in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, about the size of an orange. This I tapped, and found it to contain clear serous fluid with the remains of echinococci. In another case, that of a had aged about 18, otherAvise healthy, I removed a hydatid tumour as large as a shaddock from the nape of the neck, Avhcrc it Avas deeply seated under the