986 rHfKARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOAIY. tlio calculus presents itself. Thus, by this method, Uytterhoeven succeeded in extractimr a calculus, of which he has kindly <);iven me a cast, whicli measured inches in one circumference, and 12| in the other. It was })erfectlv moulded to the shape of the inside of the bladder, and clearly could not have been removed by any incisions through the perinmum, as the outlet would have been insufficient for its extraction. The patient survived the operation eight days. But not only may the high operation bo required on account of the size of the calculus ; it may be rendered necessary by other conditions, such as the existence of so much rigidity about the hips in consequence of rheumatic disease, as would prevent the proper exposure of the perinaeum ; or by that region being the seat of disease which would interfere with any operation being practised through it; or the pelvic outlets may be so contracted by rickets as to prevent the possibility of the extraction of a stone through them by any of the perineal operations. Operation.—The high operation consists in making an incision through the abdominal wall, above the pubes, and opening the anterior part of the bladder below the reflexion of the peritoneum that passes upwards from its summit. In performing this operation, it is necessary that means should be taken to raise up the summit of the bladder, so that it may project well above the puhes, and thus admit of being safely opened. To do this it must be distended with fluid as the first step in the operation. The fluid used should be some unirri- tating antiseptic solution : perhaps the best is a concentrated cold solution of boracic acid, warmed to the proper temperature before being used. Thymol, salicylic acid, and permanganate of potash have also been recommended. Whatever solution be used, the bladder should be thoroughly washed out with it two or three times if the urine be foul. If it be acid and healthy this may be dispensed with. About twelve to sixteen ounces are then injected, and an India-rubber ring put round the penis to prevent the fluid from escaping. This part of the operation may be performed through a metal catheter, which can be securely plugged and left in to serve subsequently as a guide to the bladder. Many Surgeons, however, prefer withdrawing it. Too much force must not be used in injecting the bladder, as several cases have been recorded in which rupture has resulted from so doing. The bladder having been dis- tended, Petersen of Kiel recommends that an india-rubber bag of a pyriform shape, capable of holding about sixteen ounces, and stiff enough to retain its form, should be introduced into the rectum and distended with water through a tube fixed to its apex, and provided with a stop-cock. In this way the bladder is steadied and pushed fonvards, so that it can be felt clearly through the abdominal walls. The incision is then made accurately in the middle line. It should be about tw'O to three inches in length, and should extend slightly over the pubes at its lower end. The pyramidales being drawn on one side, and slightly notched if necessary, the linea alba is exposed, cautiously opened near the pubes, and divided upwards for about two inches. The fat above the pubes is then pushed upwards, and the distended bladder felt for with the finger. If an iustruiuent have been retained, its handle must be depressed, so as to make its point pro- ject, pushing the bladder before it. The part of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum may be recognized in adults by its muscular fibres ; in childreu, Dulles states that its bluish-giny colour is characteristic. The bladder liaving