TUMOURS—CENTRAL SARCOMATA. 3^3 f" ‘ FORM OF SARCOMA. IXFECTKD NEIGH- BOURING SOFT PARTS. INFHCTKD LVMFIIATIC Ol.ANOS. RECURRED LOCALLY AFTER REMOVAL. INFECTED ' THE 1 SYSTEM ! GENERALLY| Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Feeiosteal :— 100 Spindle-celled U 0 GO Kound-celled 60 7-G‘) 50 GG-GG Ossifying 40 G-25 41 G5-G2 CENTR.VL :— 33-33 Kound-celled . . . . . . GO 8-33 25 Spindle-celled 18 0 20 23-07 Myeloid 12 0 8 22-72 When internal organs become affected, the secondary growths will generally be found in the lung, and sometimes also in the liver and other viscera. The secondary tumours, as a rule, reproduce the special features of the primary, such as ossification, calcification, development of cartilage, &c, (Fig. 517). In Central Sarcoma of Bone the tumour springs from the cancellous tissue or medullary canal. It is usually situated at or about the articular ends, expanding the bone, until in many cases a thin shell only is left sur- rounding the mass. The symptoms may at first closely resemble those of Fi^'. 518.—Myeloid Plates or Giant-Cells from a Tuinonr of the Lower End of the Femur. Fig. 519.—Fusiform and oat-shaped Cells from Myeloid Tumour. chronic periostitis and osteitis, or abscess of bone, the only means of diagnosis sometimes being the application of a trephine. In most cases, however, the pain is not so severe as in chronic infiammatory affections. It has been pointed out by Richet, and I have often had occasion to verify the fact, that, though the articular end of the bone may have been completely destroyed by the tumour, the cartilage of the neighbouring joint never becomes implicated. In these cases the close proximity of the tumour to the joint may lead to the disease being mistaken for vdiite swelling of the articulation, as I have fnore than once seen happen in myeloid sarcoma of the lower end of the femur. The cartilage, however, being nndestroyed, there is in these cases usually a considerably greater degi’ee of movement than is possible in white swelling. Central sarcoma, so long as the disease is confined within the walls of bone, developes but slowly and shows but little tendency to infect the system, but when once it extends beyond and implicates the soft parts, the danger becomes greatly increased. Spontaneous fracture is not uncommon. Central sarcomata