476 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. CHAPTER LIIL DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. DISEASES OP BURSiE. The burs® which naturally exist, either under the skin, beneath the muscles and ligaments, or around tendons, are subject to various diseases. These sacs are sometimes developed from continued friction in situations where they are not naturally met with ; thus, for instance, burs® have been found at the projecting point of a hump-back, on the prominent parts of club-feet, or at the extremity of a stump. These abnormal burs® also may become diseased. Situations in which Burs® exist.—Burs® are either deep-seated or subcutaneous. The deep burs® are as a rule more perfectly developed, closely resembling true synovial sacs, and in many places communicating with the cavity of a neighbouring articulation. The subcutaneous burs®, situated over prominent bony points, appear to be little more than enlarged areolar spaces, and are in most places acquired after birth as the result of friction. The fol- lowing are among the most important situations of the burs®. On the front of the neck, according to Verneuil, there are three burs®, one in front of the jDomum Adami, one in the thyro-hyoid space, extending to the under sm-face of the hyoid bone, beneath the sterno-hyoid muscles, and another above the hyoid bone between the genio-hyoid and genio-hyoglossus muscle of the oppo- site sides. Beneath the deltoid and the acromion process is a large bursa, often communicating with the shoulder-joint. In the neighbourhood of the elbow are a large subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon, and a small one between the biceps tendon and the bone immediately above the insertion of the muscle. In the neighbourhood of the hip are three burs® about the great trochanter, a large one between it and the gluteus maximus, and two smaller sacs between the smaller glutei and the bone. Another bursa of con- siderable size lies over the tuberosity of the ischimn. In front of the joint is a bursa beneath the psoas and iliacus muscles, frequently communicating with the cavity of the articulation. In the neighbourhood of the knee there are two burs® in front, the bursa patell® between the deep fascia and the bone, and that beneath the ligamentum patell®, between it and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia. Occasionally the upper part of the synovial pouch of the knee, is shut off from the general cavity of the joint, and forms a separate bursa beneath the extensors. In the ham there is a large bursa between the inner condyle of the femur and the gastrocnemius which frequently communi- cates with the joint, a similar smaller bursa on the outer side, another between the biceps tendon and the external lateral ligament, and others beneath the semi- membranosus, the popliteus, and the sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus between these muscles and the bone. At the heel there is a large bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis. The above burs® are all well-developed and