FEMORA L HERNIA —DIA GNOSIS—TRE A TMENT. 819 Ku readily be confounded, are—1. Enlarged Lymphatic in this situation. From these it may be distinguished by the absence of impulse in the glandular tumour, and by the simultaneous enlargement of several glands. A small strangulated hernia may, however, co-exist with these ; being subjacent to, and covered in by them. AYhen this is the case, and the local signs of hernia are obscure, whilst the symptoms of strangulation continue, an incision should be made into the part, and the dissection carefully carried through and under- neath the glands, with the view of determining whether the hernia exist or not. '2. A small Fatty Growth has been met with in the crural canal, closely simu- lating a hernia. The want of impulse on coughing, together with the limited and doughy character, of the tumour, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish it from hernia. 3. Psoas Abscess may point nearly in the situation of femoral hernia : but generally it leaves the abdomen external to the vessels, while a hernia is internal. It may be further distinguished by its fluctuating feel, by its soft yet semi-elastic character, and by the general history of the case. The impulse on coughing, which is very distinct in the abscess, is commonly more forcible and direct than that of a hernia ; and although the punilent collection may in many cases be squeezed back into the abdomen when the patient lies down, yet it returns without a giu-gle, and without that distinct slip which accompanies the reduction of a hernia. 4. Varix of the 'Saphena Vein is in some danger of being confounded with hernia. It may, however, be distinguished from this by the impulse in it being less distinct than in hernia, and by the enlargement of the lower part of the vein being marked in the varix, but not existing in the rupture. Femoral hernia most commonly occurs in women, and very seldom under the age of twenty ; differing in both these respects from the inguinal rupture. >Sir A. Cooper states that he had seen only three cases under the above age. It very seldom becomes strangulated at an early period of life, even when existing, I have had a girl of nineteen under my care Avith femoral hernia, in whom ’.trangulation had already occuiTed on four occasions ; reduction, however, ia\dng been happily effected each time. Treatment.—The treatment of femoral hernia, when it is reducible, must ■)e conducted in the ordinary way by the application of a proper truss. A sure, however, is never, I believe, effected by the pressure of a pad, as some- imes happens in inguinal hernia ; owing probably to the rigidity and in- ompressibility of the tendinous and aponeurotic structures through which his rupture protrudes. It is often difficult to keep this form of hernia up »y means of a truss. The best instrument for this purpose is the Mocmain russ, which I have found to succeed when all others have failed. When the emia is irreducible, it should be supported by means of a truss with a concave •ad. When a femoral rupture is strangulated, reduction should be effected either by $ iixis or by operation as S])eedily as possible, gangrene ensuing more rapidly in ""■nis than in any other form of hernia. In attempting taxis, the structures 1 the groin should be well relaxed by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, md adducting it, which relaxes the margin of the saphenous opening ; if it 0 not succeed with the assistance of the means recommended at p. 780, Vol. II., Ae operation should bo proceeded with at once. The operation for strangulated ’moral hernia may be undertaken earlier andAvith a better prospect of success lan that for any other form of rupture ; this is owing to the stricture being 3 G 2