TUMOURS OF THE LARTEX. 677 Imvo to bu opened to allow respiration to be carried on ; and this operation ]iiust not be delayed until the i)atient falls into an as})hyxial condition, Xhuvoi's Affuctioxs of thh Lauyxx occur both in childreu and in adults. In children the affection, commonly called Spasmodic Croup, comes on sud- denly and runs its (.‘ourse with great rapidity. The child is seized, olten without previous warning, with dithculty in breathing, uses violent efforts to ins})ire, becomes black in the face and convulsed, and has in rare cases been known to die before anything can be done for his relief ; but ordinarily he trapes and gasps a few times, and eventually recovers himself with a long deep- drawn whooping inspiration. In cases of this kind, the Treatment at the time >f the fit consists in dashing cold water in the face, in exposing the body to a -•nrrent of cold air, and in using friction to the extremities. If asphyxia occur, artificial respiration must be kept up either through an opening made dn the windpipe or by the mouth. In the adult, these spasmodic affections of the larynx may come on either rrom pure hysteria, or from irritation of the laryngeal nerves by the pressure of tumours or aneurisms upon them. In other instances they arise from the ♦oresence of some local inflammatory mischief about the glottis. In the 1 lysterical form of the affection the ordinary remedies for hysteria, together ».vith cold douches, will be of essential service. In some cases, however, the 'Obstruction to respiration is so great, that the Surgeon may think it necessary 00 have recourse to operation. When the disease arises from irritation to the ruuks of the ner^'es, such a procedure may give relief, but the occasioning ;;ause is usually in itseK of a fatal character. Paralysis of the Larynx, either unilateral or bilateral, is occasionally net with. When unilateral, it arises usually from pressure on the recurrent mryngeal nerve by an aneurism or other tumour. The abductor muscles of : he cords are usually affected first. The vocal cord on the affected side then einaius stationary in the adducted position. If only one side is affected it lauses some alteration in the voice, but no serious dyspnoea. If both sides ■re affected from any cause serious dyspnoea results, necessitating tracheotomy 'r its relief. Many other forms of paralysis of the muscles of the larynx are net ^\•ith, but their consideration belongs rather to the physician than the iiurgeon. Tumours of the Larynx.—Simple Tumours. PcqRUomata form the Qost common simple tumours of the larynx. They appear as cauliflower- ke growths of all sizes lip to that of a walnut. They may be single and •edunculated, or multiple and sessile, spreading widely over the upper pening of the glottis. Their most common seat of origin is the vocal cords. ?hey are met with at any age, but are more common after thirty than before, n stiTicture they resemble similar growths elsewhere, bciug composed of rocesses of vascular connective tissue covered with a layer of epithelium, die epithelium is that normal to the part, bciug, as a rule, squamous, nough columnar epithelium is said to have been occasionally observed. dibromata are much less common. They form rounded or smoothly lobu- 1 tted pedunculated growths, springing usually from the neighbourhood of the ocal cords. They are almost invariably single, '^fhey arc com])osed of rdinarj- fil)rous tissue, covered with a sqiiamous epithelium. Mjixoma, tiiionui, and Nmvoid Tumours have been met with, but are of extreme rarity. jsts arising from retention of the secretion of the mucous glands occasionally