ACCIDENTS AFTER LIGATURE. 127 the anastomosing' cluinnels, and it is from this that the laminated fibrine is deposited by which the consolidation of the tumour is ultimately effected. This stream of blood furnished by regurgitation, or by transmission through the smaller collateral channels, is continuous, and not pulsatory; occasionally, however, it is transmitted in sufficient (]uantity by some more than usually direct and open anastomosing branch, and thus gives rise to a continuance or to a return of the pulsation. It is interesting to observe that, in some of the cases in which this has happened, there has been a return of the bruit, but in the majority no sound appears to have been emitted. The period of the return of the pulsation in the sac after the ligature of the arterv varies greatly. In by far the majority of cases, at least two-thirds of those in which it has happened, a certain clegi-ee of thrill or of indistinct pulsa- tion has been found in the sac shortly after the application of the ligature ; at all events, within the first twenty-four hours. This may be looked upon as being rather a fiivourable sig'n than otherwise, as it is indicative of the free - state" of the collateral circulation, and generally soon disappears spontaneously, the sac undergoing consolidation. Next in order of fr-equency are those cases in which the pulsation returns in about a month or six weeks after the ligature of the artery, the collateral circulation having been fully established, and, after continuing for some length of time, gTadually ceases. It more rarely happens : that the pulsation returns betAveen these tAvo periods ; that is to say, about ■ ten days or a fortnight after the application of the ligature ; though in some instances the slight vibratory thrill, scarcely amounting to a pulsation, which perhaps is perceptible a few hours after an artery has been tied, gradually strengthens at the end of a week or ten days into as distinct and forcible a beat as had been noticed before the operation. In some rare instances the pulsation has re-appeared after the lapse of some months, the aneurismal ‘ tumour having in the meanwhile undergone absorption ; then indeed it may with justice be looked upon as constituting a secondary aneurism^ and as indicating a recuri’ence of the complaint. The cause of the continuance or of the return of the pulsation in an aneurismal sac, must be looked for in too gveat a freedom of the collateral circulation. Indeed, it is an essential requisite for the manifestation of this phenomenon, that there should be so free and direct a communication between the arterj’- on the proximal side of the ligature, and that portion of the vessel situated betAveen the ligature and the sac, or the sac itself, as to enable the impulse of the heart to be transmitted in a pulsatory manner into the tumour. Xo regurgitant blood coming upAvards from that portion of the artery which is distal to the sac, however free it may be, can communicate an impulse, as it never flows per solium except in the special case of a continuous circle of large anastomoses, such as are met with betAveen the arteries within the skull, or in the palmar and y)lantar arches. If any of the direct collateral or feeding- vessels happen to be sufficiently large at the time of the operation to transmit the Avave of l)lood, the pulsation in the sac Avill be continuous, or Avill return almost immediately after the application of the ligature. If they be at first too small for this, they may become enlarged as part of the anastomosing circulation, and then the ])ulsation Avill return so soon as their calibre is sufficient to transmit the hoai’t’s impulse. Besides these conditions in the size and distribution of the vessels of the part, it is not improbable, as has been supposed by I’orter, that certain states of the blood in some individuals may,