491 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. a tendency to rotation of the bones of the spine upon one another, in such a way that the bodies of the vertebra3 forming- the dorsal curve are twisted slightly to the right, while those which enter into the formation of the lumbar curve are turned slightly to the left (Fig. 609). This twist is sometimes slight; but in other instances it is veiy marked, so that there is a double displacement—lateral and rotatory. On examining the bones and intervertebral fibro-cartilages after death, even in cases of very considerable distortion, no disease will appear in them; except, perhaps, that the bodies of some may have been slightly compressed where they forai the principal concavity of the arch. The ligaments appear to be stretched, relaxed, and somev^hat weakened ; and the muscles are usually pale, flabby, and apparently wanting in power. Mechanism.—From a consideration of the pathology of this affection, its mechanism becomes sufficiently apparent. The spinal column, being com- posed of a number of separate bones, possesses no firmness in itself, or power of self-support, but is maintained in the erect position by the close manner in which its separate elements are knit together by ligamentous and muscular structures, and by the way in which, when thus bound together as a whole, it is supported on each side by the strong mass of the erector spinse and its pro- longations. The proper tension of these liga- mentous supports and muscular masses is espe- cially necessary for it to maintain the weight of the head and shoulders, which is thrown on the cervical and the upper portion of the dorsal spine. If, from any cause, the ligaments become relaxed, and the muscles lose their tone, or if the weight of the upper part of the body increase disproportionately to the augmentation in the strength of the ligaments and muscles that support the spine, the vertebral column will necessarily give way under the pressure to which it is subjected in a direct line from above downwards, and will consequently become curs*ed. Most commonly, indeed almost in- variably, this takes place in a lateral direction, the spine yielding more readily in this than in any other. In some rare cases, however, the lower portion of the cervical or the upper dorsal region will project backwards in an arched manner, constituting the disease termed Kyphosis (Fig. 612) ; and in other cases, of still less frequent occurrence, there may be incurvation of the spine in the dorso-lumbar region, giving rise to Lordosis (Fig, 613). The directions in which these various curves take place are exaggerations of the natural inclination of the spinal column. In lateral curvature, the chief convexity takes place towards the right side, causing a projection of that shoulder which in most right-handed people is somew'hat more prominent than the other. In h/phosis, the excurvation takes place in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions, which arc naturally prominent ; and, in loi'dosis, the in- curvation is most marked in the lumbar region, in which there is naturally a curve forwards. Fig. 612.— K}i>hosis. Fig. 613.— Lordosis.