1034 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. Treatment of Chronic Cystitis.—'J’lie treatment of chronic cystitis must always have reference to its cause. If it be due to stone or stricture no permanent improvement can be obtained till these causes are removed, but before undertakinf>- this, if the symptoms are verging- on those of the acute form, hot ]ii]>baths, fomentations, mucilaginous drinks, henbane, with alkalies, and especially potash, Avill be found most useful. Tlie bowels must be kej)t regular by enemata or castor oil. If there should be straiigui-y, moi'phia or belladonna suppositories will give most relief. Jiy these means the disease may be prevented from assuming the form of chronic vesical catarrh ; but in order to ensure this it is most important that decomposition of the urine should be prevented, or if it have already commenced that it should be arrested. For the prevention of the decomposition all instruments should Ije washed in carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40) before being used, and then greased with “Lund’s oil,” composed of absolute phenol, 1 part, castor oil, 4 parts, and olive oil, 15 parts ; or with the following, which has the advantage of not crystallizing in winter : absolute phenol, 1 part; castor oil, 7 i)arts; and almond oil, 8 parts. The penis may also be washed with boracic acid or carbolic acid lotion after micturition and covered with lint soaked in glycerine of carbolic acid or a piece of salicylic wool. If the urine has once become foul it becomes necessary to adopt local means to correct it. No good can be expected from medicines so long as the bladder is full of putrid mucus and urine. The bladder must therefore be washed out with some antiseptic solution, once, or if necessary, twice daily. This is done as follows, a soft catheter is passed and the urine drawn off, about two ounces of fluid are then thrown in from an india-rubber bottle fitted with a brass nozzle and stop-cock. The fluid is then allowed to run out again, and this is repeated till that which comes back is quite clean. Nothing is gained by injecting larger quantities, which only cause needless pain and irntation. There is another method of washing out the bladder which will often be found useful. It consists in attaching an india- rubber tube, about three feet long, to the catheter. At the other end of the tube is a glass funnel. By raising the funnel about two feet above the patient’s body and pouring the fluid into it, sufficient force will be obtained to fill the 1 (ladder. AVhen sufficient fluid has entered, the funnel may be allowed to hang over the side of the bed over a vessel, when the fluid will be withdrawn from the bladdei’, the tube acting as a syphon. Amongst the most useful of all antiseptic injections is permanganate of potash ; the’solution may be injected repeatedly till it comes back purple. Its effect is, however, very temporaiy, and it is well after the bladder has been cleaned by Condy’s fluid and water to throw in a small quantity of some more powerful antiseptic. Perhaps the best of these is quinine, ill the strength of two to three grains to the ounce of water, with a minim of dilute sulphuric acid added for each grain ; of this about one drachm may be left in after the catheter is withdrawn. Other antiseptics also are useful, as boracic acid (a concentrated solution); bichloride of mercury (gr. } to 3j.), a concentrated solution of thymol ; dilute nitric acid (m. ij. to 3).), &c. One of the most efficient of all antisejitics I Iuiac found to lie iodoform, in the proiiortion of from two to four grains to tlie ounce of water, with a little mucilage to suspend it. The only drug which seems to exert any influence ovci’ the decomposition of urine in the bladder is benzoic acid. 4’his becomes converted into liipjiuric acid, and is discharged in that form with the urine. It may be given in ten grain doses