863 ABSENCE OF RECTUM—TREATMENT. held in the gi’oin, and can afterwards clean the parts himself. J\Ioreover, diffuse peritonitis by no means necessarily follows. The mortality is no doubt great. Amussat stated, that of 21 children thus operated on, only 4 ultimately ' recovered ; but Kichard of Brest, writing in 18r>9, gives much better results ; for he records 12 cases as having occurred in the practice of himself and other Surgeons in that town, 7 of which recovered. Lumbar Incision.—The lumbar incision, or Amussat’s operation, has been often successfully practised on imperforate children. The advantages of this method consist in the possibility of opening the colon in this situation without wounding the peritoneum. The oljecUons lie in the frequent mal- position of the colon and in the still more frequent presence in the infant of a long meso-colon. ^loreover, the space, especially in a fat infant, is very limited. It thus frequently happens that the peritoneum is unavoidably Avounded. Curling, for these reasons, prefers Littre’s operation to Amussat’s • in these cases. In fact, the arguments for and against the two operations are - so e\'enly balanced that it is difficult to express any strong preference for one over the other. I have myself preferred Amussat’s, and have performed it in : more than one case. In performing the operation it must be borne in mind : that the kidney is very large, extends far outwards, may be enveloped in ver}* little fat, and may thus be easily wounded. If the operation succeeds, I the result is A’ery satishictory. I saw. Some years ago, a yoimg gentleman, eight years of age, who had thus been operated upon in Mexico for con- .genital absence of the anus and rectum. An incision had first been made in the perinjeum, but, no intestine being met wnth, the colon Avas opened in the left lumbar region. The boy Avas in good health, AA^ell-nourished, had no great trouble with the artificial anus. Avhich Avas covered Avith a truss-pad, and 'Suffered only occasional inconvenience from prolapse of the mucous membrane. There Avas a kind of sphincter-like action in the muscles about the orifice, by AA'hich the finger Avas gripped. Absence of Anns: Opening of Rectum into other Canals.—The anal orifice may be absent, and the gut may open into one of the neighbouring mucous canals, as the vagina, the urethra, or the bladder. In such anomalous eases there is usually, I believe, but little to be done, except to restore the anal orifice if possible ; but, if this be impracticable, to make a lumbar opening, and then to take the chance of the other preternatural communication closing. This it will sometimes do ; and cases have occurred in Avhich, although the whole of the meconium Avith fiatus had escaped per urethram, yet, on opening i:he rectum, the abnormal communication seemed gradually to close, the fteces l)eing directed into their proper channel. In a case in which I Avas once con- mi ted, there was imperforate anus and rectum, and the boAvel protruded as a red Ie.shy tube, discharging meconium, and about four inches in length, from the interior abdominal Avail, just beloAv the umbilicus, and immediately above an ‘xtroA'erted bladder. In such a complicated malfoimation, Surgery could inrlentlv do nothing. V O STRICTURE-SIMPLE, SYPHILITIC AND MALIGNANT. Stricture may occur in any part of the large intestine, but with very Amry- ng degrees of frequency in different portions of that gut. E.xcessiA'cly rarely met with in the ascending or transverse, of unfrequent occurrence in the