aOxWRRH.EA IN THE FEMALE. \ o8 ■ ?^i:lischarge as quickly as possible by the means already described. Iodide ol rpotassium, with alkaline tonics, are sometimes of use. Calomel and opium ' 'Were formerly administered, but are not now believed to be of any value, it 'Salicylate of soda in large doses has been tried with varying effect. Quinine ^ji maybe given if tlie temperature is elevated, and in the later stages perchloride ^ ' of iron is often of material service. The local joint-affection must be treated by absolute rest on splints, blistering, and strapping over mercurial ointment in the later stages. If ankylosis occm's, it must be treated as described on p. 352. Gonorrhoeal Pyaemia.—It is not easy to draw a clear distinction between gonorrhoeal rheumatism and pycemia. The term pyaemia is applied to those aggravated cases, fortunately of very rare occm’rence, in whieh the joint-affec- tion terminates in suppuration, with complete destruction of the articulation. In these cases abscesses are not uncommonly met with in other parts of the ■ body, especially in the subcutaneous tissue. Visceral abscesses are of very rare occurrence. The symptoms are those of chronic pymmia (Yol. I., p. 955). Cutaneous Eruptions, chiefly consisting of roseola, with slight pityriasis, and perhaps a few patches of psoriasis, have been described as occurring occa- sionally in severe cases of gonorrhoea. The description given by Travers of these eniptions makes them correspond so closely to the early manifestations of syphilis that it is probable that they really resulted from an intra-urethral chancre, mistaken for gonorrhoea. If these cases and those in which the rash arises from copaiba and ciibebs be excluded, it is doubtful if any truly gonorrhoeal skin-eruptions exist. Gonorrhoea in the Pemale differs from the same affection in the male in not being so severe, though it is usually more extensive, and of longer duration. The severity is less, on account of the shortness of the female urethra prevent- ing the occurrence of the retention of urine as in the male, and also from the absence of such parts as the prostate, testes, &c., the implication of which constitutes the principal source of difficulty in men. Gonorrhoea in the female may affect the parts to very different degrees; thus, the vulva alone may be implicated, or, as most commonly happens, the inflammation may spread to the whole of the mucous membrane of the vagina. The urethra is less com- monly the seat of disease, though occasionally implicated with other parts ; and, lastly, the interior of the uterus may become affected by this specific in- flammation. In some cases it will even spread along the Fallopian tubes to the ovaries : and ovaritis and fatal peritonitis also may be induced. The Symptoms of gonorrhoea in women are sufficiently Avell marked in the early stages, when there is an abundant muco-purulent discharge from the parts affected, with a good deal of inflammatory irritation, accompanied with pain in micturition, and a frequent desire to pass urine. As the disease I>ecomes chi’onic, however, it is more difficult to determine its true character ; it being apt to be confounded with some of those accidental and leucorrhoeal discharges to which females of all ages arc subject. Diagnosis.—In the majority of cases, gonorrhoea may be distinguished from all other muco-pitrvlenl discharges of the female organs, by the presence of inflammation about the external parts, and the mucous membrane of the vagina and urethra. In these crises it will be found, on introducing a speculum which, however, ocaisions considerable pain, and is firmly grasped by the con- traction of the vagina), that the discharge comes from the vaginal wall, and