DISEASES OF JOINTS. I 548 off; and all rotatory movement of the liip is prevented, to-and-fro motion being allowed. Thomas’ hip- or knee-splint will sometimes be useful. found Mineral Avaters and baths are often beneficially used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ; those of Wildbad and Franzenbad in Germany, of Aix-les-Bains in Savoy, Bari^ges and the other Pyrenean sulphurous wateis in France, Buxton and Bath in this country. That warm douching and bathing may give great relief is undoubted. But that they can cure an oiganic joint-disease of the nature of rheumatoid arthritis is scarcely Avithin the bounds of probability. Chronic Hheumatoid Arthritis of the Hip.—This form of the disease commences Avith pain in and about the joint, increased at night, and especially in damp or cold weather, presenting in this respect the ordinary characters of a rheumatic affection; as the disease advances, the pain, Avhich is continuous, is much increased by standing or walking, and the movements of the joint become gradually more and more impaired. The patient experiences the greatest difficulty in bending the body forwards from the hips; he consequently is unable to stoop, or to sit in the ordinary position, being obliged to keep the limb straightened in nearly a direct line with the trunk. The difficulty in walking, in standing erect, in stooping, and in sitting increases. The trochanter will be felt to be thickened. The limb, at first perhaps slightly lengthened, eA'entually becomes shortened to the extent of about an inch or more, OAving to changes that take place in the head and neck of the bone. The pelvis also assumes an oblique direction, and hence the apparent shortening becomes con- siderably greater. The knee and foot may either be inverted or everted, and the heel is raised; The shape of the hip also alters considerably; it becomes flattened posteriorly, the gluteal muscles waste so that the fold of the nates diminishes and sinks to a loAver level, but the trochanter projects more than natural, and on examination seems larger and thicker than natm’al (Fig. 530). On rotating the lunb, the movements of the bone are extremely limited, and crackling, grating, or osseous crepitation Avill often be felt around the joint. As Smith remarks, the lumbar vertebrm acquire gi’eat mobility. The thigh on the affected side is wasted, but the calf retains its natural size and firmness. Pathological Changes.—On examination after death, the changes already described as characteristic of rheumatoid arthritis Avill be found. The round ligament is destroyed, and the head of the bone is remarkably altered in shape, being flattened, greatly increased in size, or placed more or less at a right angle Avith the shaft, sometimes elongated, and ahvays very irregular and tuberous. The neck is more or less absorbed, and in some cases appears as if it had undergone fracture. The acetabulum generally becomes enlarged, sometimes of a more or less circular and flattened shape; but in other cases Rheu- Fig. 530. — Clironic matoici Arthritis of Right Hip- Joiiit. 1 |( ! 'i i