VOL. II. .J R HYDROCELE OF THE TL'MCA YACrJALlS. 1 153 1 ^1, light. This may always he detucted by the Surgeon grasping the posterior I part of the tumour with one hand, so as to put the integuments of the forepart ;jj on the stretcli, then plaeing tlie edge of the other hand along tlie most jn’omi- nent part of tlie swelling, and having a lighted candle held close behind. On i j making this examination, the tumour will appear translucent ; if, however, I the walls of the sac be thick, or the fluid dark, the transmission of light I through it may not be perceived unless the examination be conducted in a I darkened room. Another very simple and efficient method of determining the f cranslucency is by putting the end of a stethoscope against the tumour, and ) looking down the tube against the light. It must not be forgotten that in ! infants a hernia may be translucent on account of the thinness of the structures ( at that age. AVe have already seen that the ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis i may vary as to size : it may also differ as to shape ; in some cases being I globular, in others constricted in the middle, or of an hour-glass shapi- ' fFig. J)G1). The quantity of liquid varies considerably : there are usually from six to twelve or twenty ounces, but I have known a hydrocele to contain more than one hundred and twenty ounces. The fluid is generally clear and limpiil. Fig. 902.—Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalie laid open. Fig. 0015.—.Dissection of a Uydrocele, .allowing its coveriug.s. and of a straw-colour ; but in very large and old liydroceles it may become of a dark-brownisii or chocolate hue, owing to the admixture of disintegrated blood ; and it will then be found to contain flakes of cholcsterine. The sac is usually thin ; but in some old cases it becomes thick and dense, lined by a kind of false membrane, and divided by sejita or bands, occasionally to such 51U extent as almost to separate it into distinct compartments. AVhen the sac is thick, and the fluid opaque and turbid, there nuiy be considerable difficulty in detecting the transliicency.