io86 DL^EASES OF THE URETHRA. pagafccd to the smooth muscular fibres beneath, calls them into activity, and thus gives rise to the spasmodic aflcction. The most usual of these are those conditions of the system in which the lithates are largely eliminated ; as exposure to cold and wet, by which the action of the skin is suspended ; or too free an indulgence in spirituous and acid liquors—such as red or effervesceiit wines, beer, or punch—which are well known to give rise to an attack in many constitutions. Symptoms.—In spasmodic stricture we find evidence of narrowing of the urctlira, and consequent impediment to the free flow of urine, rapidly super- vening under the influence of certain causes, and as speedily subsiding. A patient, for instance, in his ordinary health and passing urine freely, if he take such food or drink as will give rise to a very acid condition of this fluid, if he be exposed to cold, or get out of health in any way, suddenly finds himself able to pass his urine only in a small stream by drops with much straining, or may even be seized with complete retention. Under appropriate treatment these symptoms rapidly subside ; recurring, however, on the application of any exciting cause. At the time of the occurrence of this spasm there is often a sensation of weight and uneasiness in the perinaeum, with evident irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, as shown by reddening of the lips of the orifice ; in fact, a tendency to a combination of the congestive with the spas- modic form of stricture. There will often be found to be a very slight organic stricture in cases of the spasmodic form of this disease; so that, when the spasm subsides, the urethra will not be quite so free as natural. Treatment.—If the patient be suffering from spasmodic difficulty in passing urine, an injection, consisting of half a drachm of laudanum in a little starch, should be thrown up the rectum, a morphia-suppository given, or a fuU dose of Dover’s powder administered, and the warm hip-bath used. As the opium begins to take effect, the urine will usually be passed without much difficulty. The bowels should then be made to act, when the patient will usually be relieved. If the spasm continue, as it often does, for some days or weeks after this, a full-sized soft bougie should be introduced every second or third day, in order to lessen the irritability of the urethra. In some cases, this is more effectually done by the use of a plated bougie well Avarmed and oiled. What- ever instrument is used should be of large size, from No. 8 to 10. A small bougie will often be arrested, and will create much irritation, when a large one Avill pass readily. If the use of the instrument cause irritation and increase of spasm, it is better to omit it entirely, and to trust to constitutional treatment. But the Surgeon must not be discouraged, if the first few introductions of the bougie appear to increase the irritation ; as the urethra becomes accustomed to the use of the instrument, relaxation of the spasm will take place. At the same time, the patient’s general health should be carefully attended to ; the bowels must be kept open, and the diet regulated ; all acids, stimulants, and sweets being carefully avoided. Dming the time when the bougie is being used, he should take the citrate of potash well diluted. As a preventive treatment of these attacks, a careful regulation of the diet, warm clothing with the use of flannel, and keeping the skin in action by means of horsehair-gloves and tepid baths, Avill be found serviceable. Congestive Stricture.—Many Surgeons look upon spasmodic stricture as essentially dependent on congestion of the mucous membrane of the urethi’a, overlooking altogether the existence of spasm, or considering it as the result V /•