sum la via X—S YMPTOMS—DIA gnosis—TREA TMENT. 193 the vessel on the ri«-ht side, though most commonly it is not dilated until after it has passed beyond the anterior scalenus. On the left side aneurism never occurs before the artery has emerged fi’om the thorax ; and then, as on the right, it most commonly happens in the third part of the course of the vessel. Subclavian aneurism may occur at any age above 21. It is most common in middle life; and, according to Poland, is three times more frequent in England than in any other country. Symptoms.—An aneurism of the subclavian artery is characterized by a pulsating compressible tumour of an elongated or ovoid shape, situated at the j base of the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, immediately above the I clavicle. If it be small, it will disappear behind this bone on the shoulder ! being raised ; as it increases in size, it fills up the whole of the space between . the clavicle and the trapezius, often attaining a very considerable bulk. In jl'i consequence of the pressure which it exercises on the brachial plexus of nerves j there is pain, often attended by numbness, and extending down the arm and j fingers, usually with some weakness of these parts. In some instances there is ! a spasmodic affection of the diaphragm, owing to irritation of the phrenic nerve. The external jugular vein is commonly distended and varicose ; ,' oedema of the hand and arm may he present. The tumour does not increase I rapidly in size, owing to its being tightly compressed by the surrounding parts; and, as the disease never extends inwards, it does not interfere with the trachea or oesophagus. In some cases it has been known to extend downwards and backwards, so as to implicate the pleura and the summit of ; the lung. ; Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of subclavian aneurism is usually easy, and presents no point of a special character. Mayo, however, mentions a case in which an exostosis of the first rib pushed forward the subclavian artery in such a way as to cause it to simulate an aneurism, and eventually to arrest the pulsation in it. Results.—As a subclavian aneurism increases in size, it may become diffused, and burst either externally or into the pleural sac. A spontaneous cure has more frequently occurred in this than in any other external aneurism. Treatment.—The treatment of subclavian aneurism is in the highest degree unsiitisfactory. Compression on Ihe cardiac side can be employed only Avhen the artery is so iiTegiilarly distributed that it rises sufficiently high in the neck to admit of pressure being applied between the scalenus and the sac. Such a combination of irregular anatomical distributions with aneurism must of necessity be excessively rare; but in one case in v'hich it occurred, Poland succeeded in effecting a cure by digital compression, kept up for ninety-six hours. The tumour then was smaller and harder, but still pulsated. The ■ patient left the Hospital, and, at the end of a month, the tumour was found to have become solid, and to have ceased to pulsate. The number of cases in which compression is possible, may perhaps be increased by performing the openition under prolonged amestliesia. iJirecf Pressure on the sac has succeeded. It has been tried in three cases, and in all successfully. "Warren of Boston made the pressure by means of a weight ; and Corner of I’oplar, l>y means of a leathern cup moulded to the swelling. I’he attem])ts at obtaining consolidation of the tumour by constitn- tional moans or by (jalvano-pinirlure, have hitherto failed, except in some very rare instances. A case is reported by Ycatman of the cure of subclavian .1