383 EXCISIOJ OF WRIST—LISTER'S ORERATION. jahan the removal of other joints. The objections raised to it were, first, tliat Ijiin caries of the carpus the disease very often extends rapidly, with great con- i ;titntional disturbance, to all the small bones that enter into its formation, ||;ind consequently partial operations rarely succeeded in curing the disease ; jl|.iind, secondly, that owing to the superficial character of the articulation, and I ts close connection with the flexor and extensor tendons, methodical operations oy the older methods were almost invariably followed by a stiff and useless land. The experience of the last twenty ycais has, however, shown that jcomplete excision of the carpus with the lower ends of the bones of the fore- irm, and the bases of the metacarpal bones may in proper cases be undertaken With a good prospect of preserving a useful hand. I had a case in 1858, in he person of a middle-aged man in whom the whole carpus and a portion of he bases of the metacarpal bones were removed, and who recovered with a ,ery useful hand, with some power of flexing and extending the wrist, and vith very considerable mobility of the fingers. To Sir Joseph Lister, and to fc‘»Vest of Ihrmingham, however, is due the merit of proving the practicability of he operation. The mode of operating planned by the former of these Surgeons M’ill be described here. But before giving the details of this operation, it may )e well to mention the principles on which it is founded. On looking at the Qovements of the wrist-joint, it will be seen that they are somewhat limited n extent, so that if tolerably firm fibrous ankylosis can be obtained between he lower ends of the radius and ulna and the upper ends of the metacarpal x)iies, the normal amount of movement is maintained. Should these move- nents be lost or should the union be so loose as to necessitate the application ^ )f a rigid apparatus to support the wrist, the hand may still be perfectly useful, he lost movement at the wrist being supplemented by those of flexion and extension at the elbow. But the hand cannot be useful if the flexion and \xtension of the fingers be seriously interfered with. The essential principle >f'f Lister’s operation is to save uninjured all the tendons concerned in the ^ movements of the thumb and fingers. If we look at the tendons that surround ^ S he wrist, we shall find them divisible into five groups : 1. Those special to he thumb ; 2. The extensors of the fingers ; 3. The flexors of the fingers ; : and 5. The extensoi’s and the flexors of the wrist. Noav the incisions are so ^ ilaiined as to save absolutely the whole of the first three groups, and to divide !>nly the tendons of the wi'ist proper, and these are cut so close to their nsertions that as a rule they form new attachments and resume their functions IS recovery takes place. Lister’s Operation.—From the result of two cases of severe injury to the vrist-joint, which recovered with useful hands. Lister was led to the conclusion hat, with proper after-treatment, the tendons about the wrist might be •ery freely handled without permanent stiffness resulting. At the same ime, he hoped by removing the whole of the cartilaginous surfaces to be able .0 prevent recun-ence of the disease—Avhich is the common ending of cases of oartial excision of the wrist-joint for caries of the carpus. At the time when ] le published his papers, he had performed the operation of excision of the s4 vrist fifteen times. The method of operating was essentially the same in ill; various small details being altered as experience suggested. The opera- ion, as he now performs it, is done as follows. Before commencing, 4 Esmarch’s bandage and tourniquet should be applied, as without them the 11 cozing of blood interferes considerably with the operation. Any adhesions -T >?1