78 DISEASES OF BLOOD VESSELS. mcnts covering this growth were exceedingly thin, and the tumour itself was in the highest degree vascular and active. Excision ajipeared to he out of the question ; the ligature presented little to recommend it; injections with the perchloride of iron and the introduction of setons were successively tried, hut neither of these means produced any effect on the tumour, which commenced to extend upwards into the nostril. I accordingly determined on using caustics. Nitric acid was first employed ; hut, as this did not produce suffi- ciently deep impression on the growth, I had recourse to the potassa cum calce. By means of this, the tumour was gradually removed ; the haemorrhage which occasionally resulted being restrained by pressure. Notwithstanding the amount of tissue destroyed, the resulting cicatrix was small, resembling that of a badly united hare-lip. Three years afterwards, the child was brought to me again, and I was much struck by the wonderful improvement that had taken place since the removal of the nmvus. The lip was smooth, the cicatrix in a great degree worn out, and comparatively little disfigurement was left in the countenance of an exceedingly pretty and engaging child. Finding, however, that the lip was still drawn or tucked in by a very dense band of cicatricial tissue, which caused a deep depression of the ala of the nose, on that side, I divided this, and the result was most satisfactory. It has been recommended when the growth invades the substance of the lip deeply for a limited extent, to remove it by an operation somewhat similar to that for the removal of an epithelioma ; the whole substance of the lip being cut through widely on each side, and the sides of the wound brought together with hair-lip pins. Such opera- tions are, however, not advisable, as apart from the danger of hmmorrhage, the disease can always be cm'ed by some of the means above described, without leaxung the amount of deformity that would result from its removal by the knife. ITaevus of the Tongue is of rare occurrence. I have, however, success- fully operated by means of the ecraseur in one case, in which the whole of the free extremity of the organ was involved (Fig. 434). The particulars will be found in Chapter LIX. Naevi of the Organs of Generation are occasionally met with in the female, but rarely in the male. The only instance of Noiviis of ths Pmis with which I have met occurred in the case of a gentleman thirty-two years of age, who consulted me some years ago for a growth of this kind, as large as a walnut, situated under the reflexion of the preputial mucous membianc. It had existed for many j’ears without giving any annoyance, but, as it had of late begun to enlarge, and occasionally to bleed, he was desirous of having it removed. This I did by applying the quadruple ligature, after having dis- sected the mucous membrane down. Ifgevi of the Vulva are by no means unfrequent. We have had several instances of the kind in the Hospital of late years. They are usually venous. Fig. 434.—Nsems of Tongue.