URJXARY CALCULUS ANJ) LITHOTOMY. 976 l)clvic cellulitis, the patient ]>erisliiu<>- from general blood-poisuiiing rather than from the local condition. I’ymmia, when it occurs, usually sets in after the first week, ddie secondary abscesses are not uncommonly confined to tlie joints and subcutaneous areolar tissue, and the disease may assume a chronic I'orni. The treatment presents nothing special. Othku Methods of Pkiifouming Lithotomy.—Having finished the con- sideration of the ordinary lateral o]ieration, we shall now proceed to that of other methods for extracting the stone l)y cutting procedures, d'hesc are the Aledkui, the liilcitercil, the Medio-lcitercil, the Recio-vcsiccd, and the Suprajmhic operations; each of which has its advocates, to the exclusion of the othei-s, and each of which undoubtedly possesses certain special advantages. In addition to these, there are various modifications of these different operations which the ingenuity of Surgeons has devised, but which have usually little to recommend them in the opinions of any except their originators. Median Lithotomy.—The median operation of lithotomy is that procedui'e by which a stone is extracted through an incision in the raphe of the perinseum extending into the urethra behind the bulb. History.—The history of the median operation affords an illustration of the mutability of professional practice, and makes it appear as if there were a cycle of opinion in surgery, as in fashion, politics, and philosophy. The median operation Avas introduced three or four hundred years ago, and continued to lie practised up to the middle of the last century, when its tediousness, its painful character, and the excessive mortality following it, caused it to fall into disuse as soon as the safer and simpler method of Cheselden was introduced. Of late years, howeA^er, it has been reviA^ed under a someAAdiat modified form ; and it is this modern median operation, and its supposed advantages over the lateral, that we must here consider. The old median operation —called also the “ Marian,” from Sanctus Ma- 1‘ianus, who wrote on it, though it did not originate with him, and the operation of the apparatus major,” from the number of instruments used in it—Avas performed in the following manner, according to John Bell. A grooved staff was introduced into the bladder, and the patient tied up in the usual Avay ; the lithotomist then, kneeling or sitting before him, made an incision in the perinaeum, not exactly in the raphc% Avhich was thought to lie dangerous, but very slightly to the left side, and terminating just above the anus. The knife Avas then carried on to the membranous part of the urethra, Avhich was opened on the groove of the staff; and, the knife being kept firmly pressed against the staff, a long probe Avas introduced into the bladder by its side. The knife and the staff AA'ere now withdrawn, nothing but the probe being left in the bladder, to serve as a guide into this caAuty. Along this probe, two iron rods, called “ conductors,” were now passed, and with these the operator dilated the prostate and neck of the bladder, by separating the handles; at least, it was said that he dilated them, but, as John Bell pithily obserA^es, “ he dilated, or, in plain language, tore open, the prostate gland.” These conductors being held aside, ‘‘dilators” Avere introduced so as to enlarge the opening, the forceps aatis then pushed into the bladder, and the stone extracted as it best could be. The principles of this operation Avere—a limited incision in the membranous part of the urethra above the anus ; dilatation, and not incision, of the prostate