641 LTGATUPxE OF CAXCEFi, OF TONGUE. forward while the lingual artery is compressed in the Avay recommended by C. Heath. To do this the forefinger is- passed over the dorsum of the tongue till it touches the epiglottis ; it is then turned towards the side on which the artery is to be compressed, and hooked forcibly upwards against the jaw. The diseased portion of the tongue is then dissected out with a scalpel, or scissors, and forceps. If the artery be well compressed the operation will be practically bloodless. On removing the pressure the hmmorrhage is free, often profuse, but the larger vessels are easily ligatured, and the oozing will soon cease on the application of ice. Strangulation of the diseased mass by means of the Ligature was formerly much more employed than at the present day, and is indeed now seldom adopted, on account of the pain that attends and the foetor that follows its use. If, however, the Surgeon be single-handed or unprovided with tnist- 'i worthy assistants, or if ha3inorrhage is much to be feared, this means may - still be employed. For the purposes of this operation strong thick saddler’s whipcord is the best, ; as it does not readily cut through the soft and brittle tissue of the organ, which jwill be the case if the small compressed cord usually sold by the instrument .makers be used. There is little danger from luBmorrhage in or after this opera- tion ; and the pain and subsequent discomfort are usually much less than The ligature is passed by means of an ordinary iiffi^ms-needle, or, what is often . nore convenient, a corkscrew-needle curved on the side as well as to the point fFig. 720). In many cases, the plan described for tying flat na3^d will be lund the most convenient mode of passing the whipcord round the cancer f the tongue (Fig. 78o). In whatever way the ligatures are applied, care lould be taken to pass them through the healthy tissue of the organ wide of le disea.se, and they should then be tied very tightly, so as to strangle the lass effectually. This may then be cut away by scissors, so as to dimini.sh the Fig. 729.—Corkscrew-Needle. night be expected. The pain may be prevented by section of the gustatory Fig. 730.—Application of Ligature to Cancer of Anterior Part of Tongue. VOL. II. T T