95 EFFECTS OF ARTERIAL DISEASE. longer capable of rcgfiilating^ the flow of blood to the parts it supplies. At the same time its calibre is always diminished, and the nutrition of the paits beyond is seriously impaired. Thus in the limbs we have all the signs ot defective circulation, coldness of the feet, cramps and spasms of the muscles; whilst, in organs, softening of tissue, fatty degeneration, and other evidences of want of a proper supply of blood are observed. Spontaneous aneurisms rarely result from this change, the coats of the artery being more resisting than natural ; moreover, primary calcification is met with in the vessels below the axilla and knee, and spontaneous aneurisms beyond those points are amongst the curiosities of surgery. Thrombosis is occasionally met with, but is not common, as the endothelial lining is affected only in extreme cases and late in the disease. The lodgment of a small fibrinous embolus carried from athero- matous arteries above is an occasional occurrence, and is very likely to cause trangrene even when only one vessel is blocked, as the collateral arteries are no longer capable of enlarging to carry on the circulation. Occlusion of the calcified arteries by thrombosis or embolism is the common cause of the dry form of senile gangrene. The moist form arises from inflammation taking place in tissues, the vitality of Avhich has been greatly lowered in consequence of the diminished supply of blood which finds its way through the narrowed vessels. Ossification of Arteries.—The formation of true bone in the coats of an artery is an extremely rare occun’ence. I am acquainted with only one authentic case of this change. The specimen was exhibited at the Pathological Society of London, by H. G-. Howse, in 1877. The patient was a man aged ?jG, who Avas run over by a cart, the Avheel passing over his shoulder. The axillary artery Avas ruptured, and death occurred as a result of the accident about a month afterwards. A small plate of cancellous bone was found in the injured vessel, apparently developed in the middle and outer coats. Its greatest thickness was about a quarter of an inch. Effects of Diseases of the Arteries. —The various effects of diseases of the arteries have already been mentioned with the affections to Avhich they are due, but it may lead to a clearer comprehension of the subject if they are again refeiTed to, as the same effect may result fr’om more than one cause. The most important, effects of arterial disease are Ulceration of the Coats of the Artery ; Spontaneous Rupture ; Contraction or Occlusion of tlie Vessel, and, lastly. Dilatation into some of the various forms of Aneurism. Ulceration of Arteries.—Loss of substance in the inner coat results fr’om superficial fatty degeneration (p. 93), and from softening of an atheromatous patch (p. 87). Neither of these processes is a true ulceration. Genuine ulceration of the inner coat is in reality scarcely ever met Avith. When true ulceration of an artery takes place, it is the result of causes acting from with- out, attacking first the external coat, as in the case of a sloughing sore opening a main artery, or the pressure of a seejuestrum in the popliteal space against the vessel. Spontaneous Rupture of an artery is rare, and never happens Avithout jirevious di.sea.se of its coats. Experiments made by Peacock, which I have repeated, and the accuracy of Avhich I can fully confirm, j)rove that a healthy artery Avill sustain a veiy great pre.ssure from Avatcr injected into it, Avithout its Avails giving Avay. But, if these have been softened or Aveakened by disease, they may be unable to resist even the ordinary impulse of the blood : and if