DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 1142 successful in its results than is the extirpation of malignant growths from most other situations. In some of Hey’s cases, which continued under his observation, there was no recurrence of the disease for several years, I have seen several patients who, after a lapse of six or eight years, have continued free from a recurrence of the disease ; and I have also seen a gentleman who had his penis amputated for cancer more than twenty-five years ago, and in whom no return has taken place. The fact is, that we see and hear of those cases in which a recurrence takes place ; but those patients who remain free fr’om a return of the affection do not divulge their infirmity ; and it is exceedingly rare in hospital-practice to find a patient come back with recun-ent cancer in the stump of the penis, which he would certainly do if relapse took place. In those cases in which the operation is not successful, it has usually been delayed too long, the disease having already implicated the lymphatic glands in the groin, and thus contaminated the patient’s constitution. Amputation of the Penis is best performed with the knife, though the dcraseur may be used if preferred. The operation should always be performed towards the root of the organ, so as to be well clear of the disease. Before proceeding to operate means must be taken to restrain undue hgemorrhage. This is best done by tying a narrow tape. tightly round the root of the penis, or by encircling this part by Clover’s tourniquet (Fig. 950), apphed as in circumcision, only nearer to the pubes and more tightly. The operation may be done in various ways, but the following is perhaps as efficient as any. The penis being drawn well forwards a circular incision is made round it with a bistoury dividing the skin only. The corpora cavernosa are then cut carefully through from the dorsal aspect, care being taken not to wound the corpus spongiosum. If necessary a full sized catheter may be introduced to define more clearly the limits of the urethra. The pai’t of the penis beyond the section of the corpora cavernosa being drawn well forwards no difficulty will be found in separating these fr’om the corpus spongiosum. Finally the corpus spongiosum is cut through half to three-quarters of an inch nearer the glans than the incision through the corpora-cavernosa. The bleeding is then arrested. There are usually five arteries requiring ligature : the dorsales penis, one in each corpus cavernosum, and one in the septum. In securing these, trouble is not unfrequently experienced in consequence of the retraction of the stump that is left. The danger of haemorrhage scarcely exists if the tape or the tourniquet have been properly applied before the operation, as every artery should be secured before the compression is taken off. The pro- jecting corpus spongiosum and urethra are then slit up with a pair of scissors along the dorsal aspect. It is then spread out and attached by catgut-sutures to the skin below and to the corpora cavernosa above. In this way the contraction of the urethral orifice, which is often a most serious source of inconvenience and even of danger to the patient after amputation of the penis, may with certainty be prevented. Hilton, who first pointed out the necessity of providing against this accident, recommended that the urethra should be slit along its under aspect, but if this be done the urine is directed downwards between the legs during micturition, while if the slit be made towards the dorsal aspect it is often projected somewhat forwards, and the patient can thus make water with less inconvenience. In performing the operation care must be taken that the skin is not dragged too much forwards, lest sufficient covering be not left. After the operation is finished the cut