1098 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. these distressing cases, death may occur at diiterent periods and in different ways. The earliest period at which 1 have seen a fatal termination has been in nine hours ; usually it takes place in from 24 to 48 hours after the occur- rence of the first rigor. The immediate cause of death may be coma, exhaus- tion, or cardiac syncope. The cause of these rigors is exceedingly obscure. Constitutional nervous- ness or timidity has certainly nothing to do with them. They occur in the strongest and most courageous men, and they very rarely follow the use of the catheter in women. I have only once seen these effects in the female, in the person of a young married lady, strong and healthy, who had a stricture of the orifice of the urethra, which I dilated by a two-bladed dilator. Twenty hours after the operation, she had three most intense rigors followed by profuse sweatings. In men they may occur after dilatation of any part of the uretlira, but are much most frequent after dilatation of a stricture seated in the bulb or in the membranous portion of the canal. I have, how- ever, heard of one case in which a fatal rigor followed incision and dilatation of the orifice of the urethra. I doubt whether severe rigors occur unless there have been some traumatic lesion, such as abrasion or ruptui’e of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Kigors certainly follow the use of metallic instru- ments more ft’equently than that of the softer kinds, which are less likely to produce such mischief. Eigors are not prevented by the use of ansesthetics. Some of the worst cases that I have seen have occurred after prolonged instru- mentation under anaesthetics. Treatment.—The rigor is best prevented by gentleness in the use of instru- ments ; by the employment of soft, rather than metallic ones ; by guarding most carefully against a chiU, the patient being kept in a warm room during the whole of the day; and by the administration of a full dose of opium and quinine before the use of the instrument. When a rigor has set in, the patient should be wrapped up in blankets ; a glass of hot spirits and water or tea may be given, to be followed up by quinine and opimn. The sweating, which is often so profuse as to wet through pillows and bed-clothes, must be encouraged. When it has ceased, the patient should be rubbed dry and laid in dry warm blankets. Suppression of Urine is a rare accident after simple dilatation, being more common after the more severe methods of treatment, such as forcible dilatation. The symptoms are at first those just described, the patient suffer- ing from a rigor, with rapid elevation of temperature, dry skin, and vomiting. The secretion of urine entirely ceases, or at most a few drops darkly-stained with blood escape. The patient usually dies in from two to three days, miless the secretion returns. In these cases the kidneys are usually found more or less extensively affected with chronic interstitial inflammation; but cases have been recorded in which the microscope revealed but little change. They are usually gorged with blood. The condition would seem to arise from reflex nervous disturbance of the kidney, but the exact pathology of the process is very obscure. The Treatment consists in dry cupping over the loins and hot-air baths. Large warm water enemata, with a view of “fomenting the kidneys,” have been suggested. The bowels must be freely opened by a compound jalap powder. Possibly in some cases pilocarpine hypodermically in doses of from to ^ of a gi’ain might be of use.