DISEASES OF TIJE PROSTATE. io66 tratiou of cliloroform, and which I liacl an opportunity of dissectim^, I found that the siimiuit of the bladder reached to live inches above the symphysis pubis, and was only two inches below the umbilicus ; that the line of reflection •of the peritoneum was inches above the bone; and that the space uncovered by serous membrane was 2;^ inches wide. Aflie bladder contained nearly forty •ounces of urine, the retention having lasted forty-eight hours. Brandcr of Jersey and others have modified this operation by puncturing through the symphysis pubis, by means of a trochar and cannula. There is not, however, suflicient evidence to enable us to decide as to the merits of this procedure. Puncture through the Rectum is not generally a safe procedure in retention from enlarged prostate, in consequence of this structure encroaching •on that part of the inferior fundus of the bladder Avhich is uncovered by peri- toneum. When, however, the retention arises from enlargement of the urethral portion rather than of the lateral lobes, this operation may be safely done; nnd, indeed, I have known it put in practice with advantage in such c-ases (Fig. 917). A procedure that was formerly rccoimnended by Brodie, Liston, and most Surgeons of authority in these matters, was Forcible Catheterism, or Tunnelling the Prostate. K& the retention is generally owing to an en- largement of the urethral portion of the prostate, relief was afforded by pushing the point of a silver catheter through this obstacle into the bladder. A false passage was thus purposely formed, in Avhich the instrument was left for about forty-eight hours, when it Avould usnally enter it again with suflicient readi- ness on being re-introduced. This practice has, however, been very generally rendered unnecessary by the use of improved instruments, aided by anaesthetics; and “ tunnelling the prostate ” may be looked upon as belonging to a past age of Urinary Surgery, ruder than the present. When the bladder has been relieved, the jDatient must be freely purged. Belladonna suppositories are often of use, but if there be much pain, opiiun or morphia will be preferable. In a few days the congestion of the prostate passes off, and the patient may be again able to pass water unaided. In many cases, however, the bladder of an old man which has, perhaps, not been completely emptied for some time, becomes permanently atonic after a single attack of retention, and he is never able again to dispense with the catheter. OTHER DISEASES OP THE PROSTATE. Atrophy of the Prostate sometimes occurs. It may be the result of exhausting disease, especially phthisis, of old age, of mechanical pressure from tumours or calculi, or of local disease of the gland itself. Congenital deficiency of the prostate may also occur. Cancer of the Prostate.—The prostate is very rarely attacked by cancer, but rare as the disease is, I have seen at least three instances of it, and can therefore scarcely agree with the estimate of Tanchou, given by Walshe, that it only occurred five times in upwards of eight thousand fatal cases of cancer. The form met with is most commonly scirrhus ; one case of colloid has been recorded by Stanley Boyd. I have seen true scirrhus in a man about 70 years old. He died with secondaiy tumours in the lymphatic glands, and with a liver studded Avith cancefi’ous nodules.