544 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. II such as tannin, chloride of zinc, &c. Bnt under any plan of treatment this affection is apt to })rove rchellions. Follicular Hypertrophy.—Meyer of Copenhagen has described a condition occasionally met with in strumous children, in which there is a general over- growth of the closed lymphatic follicles situated about the postcrioi- narcs and ujiper part of the pharynx. It leads to more or less complete obsti’uc- tion of the posterior nares, and is often accompanied by deafness. The condition can be recognized by the nasal tone of the voice, the stojjpage of the nose, and by the enlarged follicles being felt with the finger passed behind the soft palate. Meyer recommends that the enlarged follicles should be scraped away by means of a ring-shaped knife set in a long handle, whicli can be passed through the nostril and guided by the finger behind the soft palate. Watery Discharge from the Nose.—Sir James Paget has recorded a case in which a clear watery fluid of a specific gra\dty of 1004, containing a trace of albumen and a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium flowed steadily at the rate of a drop every five or six seconds from the left nostril. The fluid ' exactly resembled cerebro-spinal fluid. Following the practice of Sir Benjamin Brodie in a similar case. Sir James Paget administered sulphate of zinc internally, and injected the nostril with a solution of the same substance, and under this treatment the discharge ceased. The flow commenced six months after a severe blow on the forehead. The patient subsequently died of meningitis, the inflammation being most marked about the under surface of the frontal lobes, but no communication was found between the nasal fossm and the subarachnoid space. In the left antrum, however, were found two broad-based polypoid growths which Sir James Paget believes to have been the source of the discharge. Ozaena.—By the term ozrnna is meant a chronic muco-purulent discharge from the nose, having a peculiar and most offensive smell. It may arise m some cases without evident cause, and is then called simple; but more commonly it is due to syphilitic or strumous disease in the nasal fossEe, accom- panied by ulceration of the mucous membrane or necrosis of the bones. The treatment necessarily varies with the cause of the disease, and will be discussed with the affections that give rise to it, but from whatever cause it may arise the nasal cavity must be thoroughly washed out twice a day at least to remove the offensive discharge. This can be done efiiciently only by means of the “ nasal douclieN This consists of an india-rubber tube about three feet long, to one end of which is fixed a nipple-like nozzle to fit into the nostril, and to the other a metal tube bent into the shape of a syphon. It is thus used. The tube is first filled with water and the syphon end hung over the edge of a jug or tumbler containing the fluid to be injected into the nose. The patient then holds his head over a basin, and breathes through the mouth, which must be kept open. The nipple end of the tube is now placed in the nostril, and the vessel holding the fluid to be injected is raised about two feet above the head of the patient. The fluid will then flow through the syphon and enter the nostril with a degree of force proportional to the height at which the vessel is held. As the patient is breathing through the open mouth, the soft palate is curved backwards against the posterior wall of tlie pharynx, and shuts off the nasal part of that cavity ; the fluid, therefore, ])asses out at the opposite nostril, thus washing out both nasal cavities and the part of the pharynx