} 1 r i R, fc i k > I f 4 ai*S’i;6’ 6>/'" OAiVC^Ji FAVOURAJILE for 0RERATI0A\ 743 if the patient is stout; ami if recovery take place the expectancy of life after seventy wonkl not be materially, if at all, increased by the extirpation of a disease which would probably recur and prove fatal within two years ; the more so, as the progress of cancer at advanced age is often very slow. Pregnancy is not necessarily a bar to the performance of any necessary operation, even of amputation, on the female breast. In pregnant women cancer when attacking the breast becomes very active, hence its removal should not be too long delayed, if all other circumstances are favourable. 'vShould, however, the sixth or seventh mouth be reached, it might be as well to delay the operation till after recovery from parturition. But in deciding this question much will depend not only on the rapidity of the growth of the tumour, but on the size of the breast and the moral effect of the operation. o. Cases favourable for Operation.—All cases of cancer of the breast are favourable for operation when recognized sufficiently early, provided the patient is suffering from no constitutional disease, but uufortunately, either from reticence on the part of the patient or hesitation on the part of the medical attendant, the question of operation is frequently not raised until some of the unfavourable conditions already mentioned have appeared. The exclusion of all the cases in which this has happened wiU necessarily limit very materially those in which an operation may be undertaken; it can, however, be performed with every prospect of its being advantageous to the patient, if the tumour be of moderate size, slow or nearly stationary in its growth, unconnected with or at least merely attached by a pedicle of the skin, pretty distinctly circumscribed, movable on the subjacent parts, and not complicated by great enlarged glands in the axilla or elsewhere. The patient has an especially good prospect of recovery, according to Brodie, if the disease be seated in the nipple. When once a tumour of the breast has been ascertained to be of cancerous character, the sooner it is removed the better, unless one of the special reasons adverse to operation that have just been adverted to should exist. Every day’s delay diminishes the chance of permanently relieving the patient. The disease (for reasons stated at pp. 1015—1019, Yol. I.) appears in the early stages often to be entirely local: there is no evidence of constitutional infection, but if the operation be delayed the skin speedily becomes implicated, the axillary glands enlarge, and cancerous cachexy sets in. In all cases of cancer of the breast the whole of that organ ought to be freely removed, especial care being taken that no bits of mammary structure be left behind ; and after removal the mider surface and edges of the gland ought to be carefully examined, to discover whether the' extii-pation has been complete. The question of the simultaneous removal of the axillary glands in every case is still an open one, but when we consider how unsatisfactory the simple excision of the gland usually is, it certainly deserves a trial. When the cancer is infiltrated, the whole of the breast and the surrounding cellulo-adipose structures must be very freely removed, as there is often a halo of cancerous infiltration around the morbid mass, in tissues apparently healthy. It may happen that the tumour, especially if scirrhous, is apparently isolated, and situated at one border of the gland, scarcely, if at all, connected with that structure. Mere the question will arise, as to whether the whole of the organ ought to l.)0 removed or not. In determining this we must, I think, be guid(!d by the position of the sciiThous mass and the size of the breast, ff’he cancer-infiltration proeecds in