991 COX STRUCT ION AXD FORMS OF LFTllOTRFTFS. rack and pinion instrument, which, however, found little favour with Surgeons. Civiale’s very ingenious and heautiful instruments, having the double action jf screw and hand pressure, were those to which many gave the preference until the invention of the cylindrical handle by Thompson. This instrument, havinsr the same double action as Civialc’s, is that which is now commonly used. The lithotrite must be made of well-tempered steel; and should )je tested oy being made to crush a piece of sandstone grit, of about the size of a nwahuit. It should be of as full a size as the urethra will readily admit ; ; t must have the male blade well serrated, and the female or under blade oierced at the beak by "an oval aperture, through which the detritus of the crushed stone is forced, and thus any entanglement of it between the blades ?s prevented (Fig. 878). The object of this open-bladed lithotrite is to break the larger and harder stones into pieces ; but it is not intended to pulverize smaller calculi and Fragments. The lithotrite should be cut out of a bar of solid steel, and not, as is the case ■..vitli some instruments, made of a plate of this metal, tmmed up at the edges ; >is such an one possesses too little strength to be used with safety on large and (5|.iard calculi. Those cut out of a bar of metal have an external blade, having : i grooved shape, as in Fig. 875. In this, the male or internal branch, cut to fit .accurately (Fig. 877), slides smoothly, the whole instrument possessing an i i'lmount of strength and power that no calculus can resist. The bent-up instru- i '.-nent is composed of an outer tube of metal, as represented in its transverse ection (Fig. 874), in which the internal blade fits less accurately (Fig. 870), Lnd which possesses less strength, especially at the elbow, than the lithotrite Itut out of solid steel. The scoop, however, may without danger be constructed f bent metal. Civiale’s lithotrite, such as is represented in Fig. 878, has a most ingenious Fi-. 875. Fisr. 870. Sections of Lithotrites. Fig. S77. Fig. 878.—Civiale’s Lithotrite or Crusliing Fragments. Fig. 874. ' tlouble action, enabling the Surgeon to work it either by the pressure of the land or by a screw. In this instrument, there is' no fenestra in the female •lade. It is of two kinds. In one, the male .blade is much narrower than the ■4. emale ; in the other, it is nearly as broad, The first kind is useful in crush-