111 SYMPTOMS OF DIFFUSED ANEURISM. ^ ilistinctly heard. Another sign of considerable importance consists in the . limbiution in the size of the tumour, and the cessation of the 2Jalsation and I bruit on compressimj the vessel leading to the sac, and the immediate and •. sudden return of these signs on removing the pressure from the artery. ! ^lany of the symptoms that have just been described are peculiar to and ! rheir combination is characteristic of aneurism, being dependent on the com- 5 munication that exists between the artery and the sac. Those that result from i the pressure of the sac upon neighbouring parts are common to aneiu'ism and I ij; to any other kind of tumour ; but, though not of so special a character as : those that have just been described, they are of considerable importance in 5|,[;determining the nature of the disease when taken in conjunction with the : other symptoms. j: Symptoms of Diffused Aneurism.—When a sacculated circumscribed I aneurism becomes diffused, the sac having given way, but the blood being still I bounded by the tissues of the limb, the patient experiences a sudden and acute pain in the part, and usually becomes pale, cold, and faint. On examination, it will be found that the tumour has suddenly and gveatly increased in size, at the same time that it has lost its circumscribed and distinct outline. The pulsation and bruit become materially diminished in force and in distinctness, having receded as it were from the surface, and may disappear altogether. The limb may also become oedematous, or may suffer in other -w'ays fr’om the diffused effects of the pressure of the aneurismal swelling upon the neighbouring veins and tissues. At the same time, the circulation in it being greatly obstructed, the limb may become cold and livid, and a sensation of w'eight and general inutility will be experienced in it. In these circumstances the aneurismal ■ swelling usually becomes harder, in consequence of the coagulation of the blood in the areolar tissue around the sac ; by which indeed the further extension of the disease is an-ested, and a fresh boundary is often formed, so as to limit the : extravasated blood. If it be left to itself, the tumour will now usually increase ; ’ rapidly in size, sometimes without, sometimes with much pulsation, so that at » last it mav so obstruct the circulation through the limb as to occasion nanffrene. ■i The tension caused by the rapid increase of the tumour excites more or less r acute inflammation in the suiTounding structures. As it advances towards the ■ surface, the skin covering it becomes thinned and reddened, the tumour be- ! comes soft and semi-fluctuating, owing to the coagulum breaking down, and *; eventually external rupture will ensue. I In some cases it happens that, when rupture of the sac takes place, the j effused blood, instead of being limited by the surrounding areolar tissue, be- 1 comes suddenly and widely extravasated into the substance of the limb. When ii this untoward accident happens, the shock and local disturbance are very great, I and the patient is suddenly seized with a very severe lancinating and numbing pain in the part. The pain is most severe in those cases in which the rupture takes place under the deep fascia3, by which the effused blood is tightly bound down ; and it may be so severe as to occasion syncope. In other instances, faintness occurs from the sudden escape of blood from the current of the cir- culation into the substance of the part, being most marked in those instances in which the blood is suddenly and largely effused into the areolar tissue. If the extravasation ha])pcn in a limb, this will become greatly swollen, hard, brawny, and cold. The superficial veins are congested, and the circubition in the lower parts of the member is soon completely arrested by the pressure.