843 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION. practised by Hutchinson, Howard !Marsli, Godlec, and others. Ihit tlie prospect of success will greatly depend on the nature and seat of the intussusception, i I If the strangulation be very acute, and if the disease be seated in the ileuin, , ; the chances are not so favourable by any means as in the more chronic form ' i of the atfection, when the large intestine is the seat of the invagination. In I j these cases the gut is incarcerated rather than strangulated. There is, as i I Hutchinson has well pointed out, no hope of natural cure by gangrene of the rj included portion, and the patient will die, worn out by irritation and pain, ) ■> f '? •tj I, c ?- ii 4 II t I i i a h n Hi 4 unless relieved by operation. If the invagination be attended by acute symptoms of strangulation the operation is not advisable, as in these cases it would imobably be impossible to disentangle the swollen gut, and, moreovei', it is in these that there is the best hope of a uatm-al cure by separation of the strangulated portion. In infants mider one year recoveiy very rarely takes place by separation of the invaginated gut, so rarely that not more than one or two cases of spontaneous recovery are on record. In these cases the operation seems to hold out almost the only hope of cure if inflation fails. As to the time at which the operation should be perfoimed, no definite rule can be laid down. In acute cases the earlier it is done after other means have failed the better if the case be one in which it is justifiable. If the invagination be chronic and colic occur in an adult the m-gency for early operation is not so great, ^ though the necessity will eventually be greater. Treatment of Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—As before stated, this arises most commonly from one of the following causes : fEecal impaction, compression of the great intestine by a tumour, stricture of the large intestine, chronic intussusception, and chronic (tubercular) peritonitis. Facal impaction is most common in elderly women. When it is suspected, the rectum should be explored, and if it be found to be blocked up by a rounded mass of indm’ated and impacted fieces, the Sm-geon must Condescend to undertake the duties of the nightman, and empty the human cloaca of its fetid acciunulations. This is best done by anesthetizing the patient, then dilating the sphincter ani with the hand, breaking down the indurated mass with a spoon or lithotomy scoop, and washing it away by copious enemata. If the obstruction ai-ise from the gradual compression of the rectum by an intrapelvic tumour, or from the slow constriction of it or the colon by umlignant disease of the icalls, purgatives will be worse than useless ; they will irritate, ^vill often induce vomiting, and wiU always considerably increase the patient’s distress, and should not be repeated. The patient should be kept quiet in bed and have a limited supply of food ; such as leaves little residue being preferred, the best being beef tea, meat with aiTowroot and a small quantity of brandy. Milk and soda-water is sometimes taken easily, but very often milk in any form and eggs are not easily digested. Enemata may be fairly tried, but ft they do not soon overcome the obstruction nothing is gained by persistently annoying the patient with them. In some cases the introduction of the tube of a stomach })ump as far as possible, and the administration of an injection in this way mtiy bring about relief. If the stricture is within reach, a catheter can sometimes l)e introduced through it, by means of which a large olive oil enema may be administered, and in this way the obstruction may be overcome. If these means do not succeed, opium may be administered, and very often, sometimes after some weeks, the obstruction may give way. Thomas states