DIAPIIRAGMATIC HERNIA—CONGENITAL—TRAUMATIC. 829 ii consisted, in most of the recorded cases, of an aperture in tins membiane, j: varj'ing in diameter from an inch ii])\vards ; and. amounting, in some raic I instances, even to an entire absence of one or both ^Yings of the diaphiagm. Through these openings, the contents of the abdomen have been protruded ; Irthe stomach and small intestines being most frequently displaced, and the f* spleen and liver having been found in the chest in a tolerably large proportion [ of the cases. The hernia has been mostly observed in children at or soon after birth ; but in several instances the subjects have lived to adult age, the hernia at last taking place apparently accidentally. In some of these latter cases, however, it may be a question whether the opening in the diaphragm was not the result of an accident, perhaps some time antecedent to the occui- i,i pence of the hernia. The opening has generally been found in the left side ; -sometimes, however, on the right. Diaphragmatic hernia is sometimes ob^dously of traumatic origin, being f;^he result of a wound or laceration of the diaphragm. It usually attains a f : .aro-e size, and commonly contains the stomach or the transverse colon with U ^rtion of the omentum, which forms a tumour in the thoracic cavity, encroaching upon the lungs, and pushing the heart to one side. The hernia f | s not enclosed in a peritoneal sac, but has been found partially enveloped by S,:-,he pleura. It occurs generally on the left side of the chest, but cases have oeen recorded by Percy and others where the injury of the diaplmagm was on vfoe right side. The following case is a very good instance of this rare ftfection. A man, seventy-four yearn of age, was admitted into University College Bospital. About twelve months before, he had fallen into an area about ten feet leep ; he believed that he had injured his chest and head, as from that time he i lad suffered much from shortness of breath and occasional sensation of suffo- lation, had a hacking cough, and could not lie down without feeling some lifficulty in breathing. At the time of the accident, he coughed up about liree spoonfuls of blood. Ever since the accident, he suffered much from lyspeptic sjnnptoms and constipation, though before he met with the injury le had experienced no inconvenience in this respect. About a month before idmission, the difficulty in breathing increased ; and four days before he came 0 the hospital, violent pain in the abdomen came on, and his bowels ceased to ict, although he took a variety of aperient medicines, and had enemata con- aining croton oil. On admission, the abdomen was much distended, tense, ,nd tympanitic, Avith pain around the umbilicus ; the tongue was coated with vhitish-browTi, moist fur ; the pulse was small, quick, and somewhat resisting; here was nausea, but no vomiting. The skin was cool, and the countenance ,nxious ; the bowels had not acted for seven days, but he had fr-equent desire 0 go to stool. He was ordered an aperient draught every third hour. As his had no effect, he was directed to take calomel and elaterium piUs, and to lave turpentine enemata, which afforded him some relief, though they brought way no faeces. The patient became more restless, the skin cold and flabby, he countenance more anxious, the breathing shorter, and the abdomen more ympanitic, and he died two days after admission, and nine from the coni- nencement of the obstruction. Examination of the Body tioenty-four hours aftei' death.—'I.flie abdomen was listended and tympanitic, and the peritoneal sac contained about six ounces of laid, with here and there patches of recently effused lymph. The small intes- f