VARIETIES AXE DIAGNOSIS OR OVARIAN TUMOUR. 1195 TUMOURS OF THE OVARY, For clinical purposes, may be broadly classed in fc\vo main groups, cystic i and solid. The hmt of these, including those in which cyst-development is ^ the most mai'ked feature of the growth, can be subdivided as follows : 1. Ilni- I locular cysts ; 2. Multilocular cysts ; 3. Dermoid cysts ; 4. Colloid cysts; ' Cysto-sarcomata. The second group, consisting of the more or less solid II formations, would include : 1. Sarcoma; 2. Fibroma ; 8. Carcinoma. ' Of these growths, those included in the first group constitute a large f majority of the ovarian tumours met with ; the multilocular variety being on (the whole the most common, while dermoid cysts and cysts with colloid con- tents are comparatively rare. The solid tumours, referred to in the second grouj), occur very much less frecpiently than any of the above. Tumoui's of tlie ovary may develop at almost any age, being occasionally {\ met with in quite young children, and not very uncommonly in women Avho 11 liaye long passed the menopause; bub the largest proportion of cases occur ')( between the ages of twenty and fifty. One or both ovaries may be affected. ' If uninterfered with, the disease invariably proves fatal after a shorter or j longer interval, usually within two or three years from the first development of i an abdominal tumour, death occurring from gradual exhaustion due to inter- 1 ference with the functions of neighbouring viscera. But, in the great !| majority of inshmees, an earlier fatal termination is liable to result from some i iiitercurrent complication or accident—such as rotation of the pedicle, inflam- I mation of the cyst, rupture of its wall, &c., conditions which, unless promptly ) dealt with by operation, must inevitably hasten the patient’s death, j Diagnosis.—The diflerential diagnosis of ovarian tumours. fr'om the numerous abdominal enlargements Avhich may simulate them is too extensive a subject to Ije treated of here. The following ]nay, however, be enumerated as conditions possibly requiring elimination before a definite diagnosis of ovarian •lisease can be arrived at. 1. Obesity, oedema of the abdominal Avail, tonic spasm of the recti muscles Avibh hysterical tympanitis (phantom tumour). 2. Stercoraceous accumulation, distended urinary bladder, retained men- stnial fluid, distended gall bladder. 8. Tumour of liver, spleen, or kidney, sarcoma of the abdominal glands. 4. Peritoneal hceinatocele, abdominal or ixjlvic absce.ss. u. Normal pregnancy, hydramnios, extra-uterine pregnancy, iiteniie fibro-myoma, uterine fibro-eyst, hydro- or pyo-salpynx. (i. Hydro- ne])hrosis, hydatid cysts, subperitoncal cysts, paroAUirian cysts. 7. Simple ascites, encysted dropsy of jieritoneuiu, peritoneal cancer Avith ascitic fluid. The conditions enumerated iii the last tliiue (jf these groups are perhajAs the most likely to mislead in forming an o|)iiiion. In all cases of abdominal tumour, the patient should be examined undressed and lying upon her back Avith the shoulders someAvhat raised and the] knees drawn up. After carefully noting the salient points in the history of the case, such as the duration and rate of growth of the enlargement, its apparent scat of origin, the past and i)resent cojidition of the menstrual function, Ac., the .Surgeon should proceed to determine the mitni'c of the tumour by the syste- matic employment of the folloAviiig means :—J. Jnspedton : (’ondition of the abdominal Avail; amount of distension; shape and contour of the SAvelling, whether symmetrical or not, jn'ominent anteriorly, or bulging laterally; extent