SIGN'S OF //EFXIA. 761 ‘<r ''A u I' iifv: : I ( 4 While examining the ring the adhesions at the neck of the sac gave wav, and he finger slipped into the abdominal cavity. The vomiting and pain proved 0 have been nothing more than an ordinary “bilious attack,” and the patient speedily recovered. Loose Foreign Bodies have occasionally been met "with inside hernial sacs. They are usually rounded, smooth, and firm ; vary in size from a pea to a •hestnnt ; and are mostly single. On section, they arc found to consist of a atty central nucleus with a laminated fibrous envelope, usually of considerable hickness. They are apparently composed of one of the glandulm epiploicm, vhich has become detached, fallen loose into the peritoneal cavity, and become ■nveloped in fibrinous layers. SiONS.—The signs of hernia, though varying considerably according to the •ontents of the Siic and the condition in 'which it is placed, present in all cases •nany points in common. There is an elongated or rounded tumour at one of he usual abdominal apertures, broader belo-w than above, 'where it is often laiTowed into a kind of neck. The s'welling usually increases in size 'when he patient stands, holds his breath, coughs, or makes much muscular exertion. . t can be pushed back into the abdomen on pressure, or goes back readily if he patient lie do'wn. but reappears 'when he stands up. On coughing, a strong nd distinct impulse may l)e felt in it. When the hernia is altogether Intestinal, it is usually smooth, gurgling '«dien >ressed upon, sometimes tympanitic and rumbling, and resonant on percussion, t may be returned into the cavity of the abdomen 'with a distinct slip and •imgle ; it has a 'well-marked impulse on coughing, and is usually accompanied •y various dyspeptic symptoms, and often 'with much dragging uneasiness. Jmental Hernia is usually soft and doughy, returning slo'wly on iDressure into lie abdomen, feeling irregular on the surface, and having an ill-defined outline, t occurs most frequently on the left side, and is rare in infants, in 'whom the mentum is short. In Entero-epiplocele there is a combination of the wo conditions and their signs ; but these are usually so uncertain, that fe'w nrgeons care to predict before opening the sac what the probable nature of •le contents may be. ' Csecal Hernia necessarily occurs on the right side only. It is a large, knobby, ' nd iiTegular tumour, irreducible, owing to the adhesions contracted by that 'Ortion of emeum which is uncovered by peritoneum. The peculiarity of this emia consists in the sac being absent, or only partial in the majority of cases, be peritoneum being stripped off as the gut descends. When this hernia is irge, and partially invested by serous membrane, a sac usually exists at its pper aspect, into which a portion of small intestine may fall, and which lay in some cases constitute a second hernia lying above or before the ncal one, which will be found situated at the posterior wall when this hernial ouch is opened. Occasionally the vermifonn appendix and the caput coli arc •nnd in the sac, but can rarely be rctunicd. The rule of cmcal hernia having partial jieritoneal investment only, does not hold good in all cases ; and ‘ istances have occasionally been met with in which this portion of intestine y in a distinct sac. 1 Hernia of the Bladder or Cystocele is very rare ; and, like that of the ";ecum, is usually enclosed in a partial peritoneal investment, though it is not ecessarily so. South states that there is a preparation at St. Thomas’s fospital, in which the fundus of the bladder, with its peritoneal covering, has