DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1130 symptoms of stone ; so that patients labouring under this affection are often sounded on the suj)position of the existence of calculus. Treatment.—Vascular urethral tumours may be removed in four ^Yays : by Excision, Ligature, Caustics, or the Actual Cautery. 1. E‘Xcision. When situated within the male urethra, the tumours should be snipped off' by a fine pair of curved scissors. When situated in or around the female urethra, if of small size and pedunculated, they may readily enough be removed by the scissors or dissected away ; the canal of the urethra being encroached on as little as possible. This operation is, however, always attended or followed by very considerable and continuous arterial hgemorrhage, which has even been fatal. Hence, when the tumour is large, and the patient weakly, excision should be practised with much caution. If it be done, the hEemorrhage may be arrested by the introduction of a catheter into the urethra, and by firm pressure on the bleeding surface by means of a pad of lint, supported by a T-bandage. 2. Ligature is not a convenient mode of removing these growths ; its appli- cation is difficult, very painful, and tedious. 3. Caustics, particularly strong nitric acid or potassacum calce, may be very conveniently employed where the tumour is of small size and very vascular. In applying them, the uj)per wall of the canal must be protected by a broad director introduced along it. 4. The Actual or Galvanic Gaut&nj is the most convenient agent for the removal of vascular tumours from the female urethra. By it they are at once destroyed without hEemorrhage ; and the eschar that is formed protects the subjacent raw surface from the irritation of the urine. If they be situated deeply within the urethra, and of small size, the galvanic cautery or a red-hot wire will most easily reach them ; but if they be at or around the orifice, I employ a small olive-shaped cautery. During its application, the surrounding parts may be protected from the action of heat by a wooden spoon having a hole cut in the middle through which the application is made, and the upper wall of the urethra by a director or silver catheter, which should be retained after the operation. Care must be taken not to destroy more tissue than is absolutely necessary, lest a stricture of the orifice be left.