699 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA. I stylet is withdrawn, and aii India-rubber tube attached to tlio end of the cannula. The tap being; then opened, the fluid flows along this into a vessel containing a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid. If the syphoii-trochar be used the fluid is allowed to run off by the elastic tube, the end being in the same way immersed in an antiseptic solution. In the absence of all special instruments the chest may be safely tapped with a common trochar by the simple method suggested by Reybard. A piece of thick linen or cotton rag free from holes is made into a funnel, the narrow end of which is tied lightly round the cannula immediately below its •expanded end. The funnel is then thoroughly soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10). IVhen the trochar is withdrawn the funnel of oiled rag hangs down from the end of the cannula, and serves to direct the fluid into a vessel held to receive it, and at the same time it forms an efficient valve which prevents the entrance of air daring ius])iration. AVhatever plan be adopted, the side of the chest, the operator’s hands and all instruments used must be carefully washed in a solution of carbolic acid (1 in lo). The Joiver border of the sixth rib is then felt for, and if a trochar Is being used, a small incision may be made through the skin, parallel to it, in the mid-axillary line. The point chosen should correspond to the interval between two digitatioiis of the serratus magnus. If the aspirator is being used no incision is required. The skin is then drawn upwards till the point chosen in the skin corresponds to the upper border of the rib, and the point of the trochar is then slipped over its margin and thrust sharply and firmly into the pleural sac, so as to make sure of penetratiug the thickened pleura, and any layer of false membrane, which if the instrument were pushed slowly on, might be thrust before it. By thus passing the trochar immediately above the rib any risk of wounding the intercostal artery or nerve is avoided, while by drawing up the skin before so doing the superficial opening and that in the intercostal muscles and pleura do not correspond and thus the track of the trochar is efficiently closed. After the withdrawal of the cannula the puncture is covered with some dry cotton-wool and collodion, or by a piece of adhesive plaster, and will usually unite without trouble. After tapping, the ung will expand and fill up the cavity prealously occupied by the fluid. If the aspirator is used the details described in Yol. I., p. 237, must be ; ittended to. It must be remembered that when the vacuum is moderately oerfect the lung is being expanded by the pressure of the atmosphere with a ’orce equal to fifteen pounds to the square inch. This may possibly cause ^ome injury by rupture of adhesions, and even cause hmmorrhage from the ung. If therefore the patient complains of severe pain alter a certain imount of fluid has been withdrawn the operation must be at onee brought to m end, and repeated after an interval of a day or two, if necessary. The importance of antiseptic precautions such as have been described above iven in a simple case of hydrothorax is very great. If they are rigidly carried )ut, tapping may be rej^eated sevei-al times without evil result, but should hey be neglected the hydrothorax is very prone to become converted into jmpyema. Surgical Treatment of Empyema.—When the fluid in the chest is purulent it is generally acknowledged tliat the patient’s chance of recovery is !>ut small, cxcejit by surgical interference. The consideration of general wmptoms indicating the presence of juis in the j)leura belongs to medicine