GRADUAL DILATATION OF STRICTURE. 1095 Fig. 928. — Catgut Bougie bent to shape of Stricture. i: 0 do so. The ordinary English gum-elastic catheter is of little use in the rreatment of stricture by simple dilatation. A conical instriunent, the point ■if which is small enough to pass readily through the stricture, can easily be itiijiished on so as to exert considerable dilating force with its thickest part. |-Vn ordinary English gum-elastic which is the same size throughout, cannot be ot into the stricture at all so as to exert any dilating force, as it is not stiff uough to be forced into it. If a stylet be used to stiffen it, it becomes as ^jl.iapable of making a false passage as a steel bougie, and is not under the same ’■•ontrol. If the stricture be not only very tight, but twisted, the plan recommended hj Brodie may be advantageously employed. This consists in taking a line |t ratgut bougie, and bending it, as represented in Fig. 928, I. fbout an inch from the point, so as to follow the track of the ptrictme more closely. In this way, strictures that are other- kvise impassable may be rendered pervious with comparative ‘ease. If metal instruments are used the most eflScient are conical steel bougies or sounds as they are often called. The best cuiTe for these instruments, I think, consists of one-fourth of t:he circumference of a circle 4^ inches in diameter. There >3hould be a difference of tliree sizes between the point and The thickest part, which comsponds to the bend of the iinstrument. The point should be well rounded, and the instrument passps more readily if there is a slight con- 'Striction im: eyond it. The instruments should be made of ! nickel-plated „ be highly polished. It should have a broad 1 metallic handle, whicn .ansmits any sensation communicated to the point more readily than a wooden one. That this instrument will pass much :more easily than a catheter is self-evident, and the latter should be used only when it is intended to tie it in. If a catheter be used it should be made very •solid and stiff. The rings should be large, so as to serve for a handle, and the eyes well rounded off and somewhat depressed, so that they may not scrape the urethra. These instruments should be used with every possible care and gentleness ; but, though no one recognizes more strongly than I do the necessity of not employing unnecessary violence in their introduction, it is useless to think of passing a catheter through a tight hard stricture without the employment of some degree of force. The catheter will not “ find its own way ” here as it may in a healthy urethra, but it must be guided and directed by the hand of the Surgeon ; and there is scarcely an operation in surgery that requires more tact and delicacy of manipulation than that of passing an instrument through a tight stricture. Here some force must be used, but the skill is shown in proportioning this to the amount of resistance, and in using it in a proper direction. The appearance of force is indeed often greater than the reality ; for, though the point of the catheter have passed a tight stricture, it may still require considerable pressure to push the rest of the instrument through it. With a conical steel bougie less force is required than with the catheter, as the stretching is not done with the i)oint which u.sually passes easily through the stricture, but with the expanded part beyond, which from its conical form passes without much difiiculty. Introduction.—Catheters and sounds are best introduced by laying the