TREATMENT OF CONTRACTION OF THE KNEE. 517 in bod for a few days, after which, with the aid of a starched bandage, he may walk about. AVheu the triple displacement which has already been referred to exists— viz., angular contraction, displacement of the head of the tibia backwards, and rotation of the limb outwards—simple extension is no longer sufficient to remedy the deformity. In these cases the hamstring tendons often require division, generally on both sides—sometimes only the external one ; and extension may then be effected, either forcibly, or by the gradual and slow action of rack-and-pinion apparatus. When extension is complete, the back- ward displacement of the head of the tibia may still occasion considerable deformity and weakness of the limb (Fig. G35). This condition is best removed by the use of the instrument of which the sketch on next page (Fig. l!3l)) is a good representation; it was designed and constructed by that excellent surgical mechanician, Mr. Bigg. The diagram represents a limb with the tibia displaced backwards, the angular contraction having been remedied. In the centres of the lower end of the thigh-bone and of the head of the tibia, two letters (X and Z) are placed to designate the axis of each bony head, beneath and above which the displaced joint has formed its abnormal axis. The dotted lines represent the leverage formed by the cylindrical surface of the tibia and thigh-bone. The arrows are placed in such a direction as the bones would take in resuming their normal position. It will readily be seen that any instrument capable of acting in the mechani- cal directions shown by the arrows, would not only accomplish the restoration of the joint, but extend, if contracted, the extremities of both femur and tibia. An additional advantage that this instrument possesses over any other wdth which I am acquainted, is the application of spring-power, by means of which flexion of the knee becomes an element towards the restoration of its utility. Instead of muscular action being arrested, and atrophy of the limb being thus produced, movement is conducive to the perfect action of the apparatus ; so that the patient experiences but little inconvenience from its use, all the ordinary positions assumed by the knee in walking, sitting, or standing being- preserved. By this form of appparatus, then, three important points are secured : viz., replacement of the head of the tibia, extension of the angle of the leg, and free muscular action during the period of treatment. In Fig. 630, A and B are two levers, composed of metal, corresponding in their direction to the perpendicular position of the thigh-bone and tibia. C and I) are two axes-, placed exactly coincident with the centres of the articular ends of the bones. E and F are two powerful springs, acting in opposing directions ; viz., in those indicated by the arrows in Fig. 035. Thus F presses the lever B in a forward direction, bearing the end of the tibia forward, whilst E presses the lever A in a backward direction, bearing the end of the thigh- bone backward. As C and 1) are found acting above and below the actual axis of the knee-joint, they mutually influence the point formed by the apposition of tlie heads of the tibia and thigh-l)one ; and as it has already been e.xplained that the thigh-bone really offers a fixed resistance, and the tibia moves beneath it, the head of the latter bone is brought forward in a semicircular direction consequent on the upper centre (C) being a fi.xed point, and the lower centre (I)) rotating around it. G is an elastic kiicc-cap ; II, a padded plate. When the