9i6 secondary diseases OF THE URINARY ORGANS. instruments, these should be kept scnipnlonsly clean. For this purpose the instruments may be greased with carbolic acid and oil (1 to 10). If decomposition already e.xist in the urine, it should if possible be arrested by washing out the bladder with some antiseptic, for which purpose cpiinine and diluted sulphuric acid, in the proportion of gr. ij. and m. ij. to an ounce of water, will be found very efficacious; or, better still, 10 grains of iodoform to 4 ounces of water, and 3SS. of mucilage. If the cause of the renal mischief be stricture of the urethra or stone, some operation must of course be under- taken ; but if the temperature be elevated, or there be other signs of renal disease, it should be delayed until an attempt has been made by rest and other remedies to bring the kidneys.into a healthy state. If after a few days no improvement be seen, and it seem probable that the disease is kept up by the presence of the stone or stricture, furthei.’ delay is useless; and, choosing the least severe and irritating procedure, the Surgeon must operate at once. The treatment of well-marked interstitial nephritis is extremely unsatisfac- tory. If there be any tenderness in the loins, dry cupping may be of service. The bowels should be well acted on by purgatives, and the skin by hot-air baths, to relieve the kidneys as much as possible. Heroic operations under- taken during acute nephritis in the hope of removing the cause, are almost always, if not invariably, fatal. Quinine and opium have been recommended for the prevention of the rigors that frequently follow catheterism or other operations on the urinary organs. Opium is probably of serffice, but must be given with great caution if any symptoms of urEemic poisoning exist; but quinine has not, according to most who have tried it, proved of any use. A pure milk-diet will usually be found the best in all cases if the patient can take it; stimulation must be regulated on general principles. Sir Andrew Clark has recently suggested the quaint name of “ catheter-fever' for those cases in which, shortly after the commencement of the habitual use of a catheter, obscure febrile symptoms set in gradually, terminating in death in a large proportion of the cases affected. The symptoms most commonly develop about a week after habitual catheterism has been commenced, and almost invariably in those cases in which it is rendered necessary by eularge- inent of the prostate or atomy of the bladder with partial retention of uriue. With the ordinary symptoms of febrile disturbance there is a diminution of the specific gravity of the urine and in the amount of solids excreted by the kidney. There are at the same time but moderate symptoms of cystitis. The symptoms may gradually pass off, or the patient may die exliausted at the end of three or four weeks. At the post-mortem examination it is said that the kidneys are found perfectly healthy, and no definite organic change is present to account for death. Sir Andrew Clark is inclined to attribute the fever to repeated disturbance of the nervous system by the passage of the instrument. The attention drawn to this subject by Sir Andrew Clark cannot fail to be productive of further investigation and increased knowledge concerning it, but it remains to be seen how many cases will be left to be included under the name of “catheter-fever” after the elimination of chronic septicEemia and pyaemia, and of those oases in which the kidney shall have been proved by microscopic examination to be afiected by chronic or snb-acute interstitial inflammation aggravated by the reflex irritation of the passage of instruments. The treatment of these cases must consist of rest in bed, bland diet, especially milk, and the use of opium in moderate doses.