1012 URINARY CALCULUS AND LJTIIOTRITY. percent.; and 101) crushed, with 12 deaths, or 11 per cent.; the combined death-rate for the 211) cases being- 20 per cent. For the third period Sir Henry Thompson gives Ids own results, although possibly the earlier cases might he more ])ropcrly included in the intermediate period. The proportion of lithotomies in his practice has steadily dimiidshoi Of his first 200 cases, 48 were cut; while since 1878, of 211 cases, he has cut only 15 ; and, of the last 125, only 4 were submitted to lithotomy. Sir Henry Thompson’s cases, being derived chiefly from private practice, show but a small proportion of children, 15 in all, of whom 12 were cut, with 1 death and 3 successfully crushed ; 13 Avere females, of whom 10 Avere cut, with 1 death, and in 3 lithotrity was performed. Excluding these, there remain 782 adult males. Of these 110 Avere cut, with 39 deaths, or 35 per cent.; G72 AA^ere treated by lithotrity, with 43 deaths, or 6-5 per cent., or 1 in 15i; making a total of 782 cases, Avith 82 deaths, 1 in 9^, or 10| per cent. Xo less than 595 of these patients were over 50 years of age. The numbei- of indiAuduals upon whom these operations Avere performed were 71G ; 01 cases being operated on a second time, 9 a third, 3 four times, and 2 five times. Cases of small secondary phosphatic accumulations Avere not included as I operations. During the last five years Sir Henry Thompson has uniformly | adopted the operation by the single sitting, and the results have been most | satisfactory. Of 121 cases treated by this method, only 4 died, 1 in 30, or 3-3 I per cent. f The general result of these figures is to shoAv that AA’hen lithotomy was the I sole mode of treatment, about 1 in 5 of all adult males operated on died. I During the transition period the death-rate was about 1 in 6 ; and that since |j lithotrity has been more extensively adopted, it has fallen to about 1 in 9b I and that this has still further been reduced by the adoption of the operation I at one sitting. [ The mortahty from lithotrity in hospital practice has usually been higher I than in private. Thus Malgaigne many years ago, before lithotrity Avas II brought to its present perfection, estimated the death-rate at. 1 in 4 in the 11 Parisian hospitals, Avhile he calculated that of private cases to be 1 in 8. This || difference betAveen the results of this operation in hospital and in private || practice can easily be accounted for by the difference in the constitutious of || the patients, and by their applying for relief in private in a less advanced form 11 of the disease than in hospital practice. We find that the same holds good || with regard to the results of lithotomy. Thus, Coulson states that Dudley |l lost only 1 in 36 of the ijrivaie patients that he cut; Mettauer, 1 in || Martineau, 1 in 42 ; and Mott, 1 in 50. These results, which are fully as || favourable as the best statistics of lithotrity, must, however, be regarded as If exceptional; but they suffice to show the influence which the constitution of If the patient, and a j>roper selection of cases, may exercise upon the results of li the cutting operation. II' Lithotrity, as has already been stated, cannot be applied to all cases ofII stone; in most that are unsuited to this operation, lithotomy may be done II ■ with success. In some cases, however, no operation can be practised, in consc-B^ qucnce of serious disease of the genitals, bladder, or kidneys, or of some A'isceralB mischief that Avould necessarily interfere with the performance of any capital* operation. The necessity of sclectinfj cases of lithotrity is as gi-eat as ever,||i although the field of the o])eration Inis been greatly enlarged by the niodemliy improvements in its performance. f