SUPPURATION IN THE ANTRUM. 579 may follow its removal for phosphorus-necrosis. In the museum of the ; Bellevue Hospital, New York, Wood showed me two speeimens, one of the ( necrosed lower jaw, removed by him for phosphorus-disease from a girl about 19 ! (Fig. 073). She died of brain-disease three years after the operation ; and in i the same collection is her cranium with a reproduced lower jaw, consisting of ! an entire semicircle of bone, about 5-8ths of an inch deep, with all the j epiphyses. This unique and most interesting case has already been described, and the regenerated bone figured (p. 293, Fig. 500). In it the periosteum must have been preserved entire, and thus led to the reproduction of the bone. Should no new bone have formed before the operation, a dense fibroid cicatricial structure Avill replace the lost bone. DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM AND UPPER JAW. Our present knowledge of the operative procedures necessary for the removal of diseases of the jaws, is due chiefly to the labours of Gensoul, of Lizars, and of Liston. Sir W. Fergusson greatly distinguished himself in this field of surgery, and simplified and extended it much in its operative department; and C. Heath has made important contributions to its literature. O’Shaugh- iiessy also, who has had many opportunities of witnessing these affections amongst the natives of India, has added much to our acquaintance with their pathology and treatment. The various large and irregular cavities that lie amongst the bones of the face may become the seat of disease, primarily originating either in the mucous membrane by which they are lined, or in the osseous structures that compose their walls. In this way the frontal sinuses, the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells, and the antnim, may either be seats of chronic inflammation of their mucous linings, with more or less profuse muco-purulent discharge; or the mucous membrane may take on more serious organic disease. Thus epithelio- ma may develope in it, and after distending the cavity in which it originally formed, may thin and destroy its osseous walls ; and, thus passing outwards into other situations about the fiice and the base of the skull, where it is freed from the pressure of sniTonnding bone, it may take upon itself greatly in- creased development, blocking up mucous canals, as the nose and the lachrymal sac and ducts, di.splacing the eye, and producing great disfigurement of the side of the face. These secondary outgrowths, from the rapidity of their unre- strained development, and the amount of deformity and distress which they occasion, may readily be mistaken for the primary disease, the real starting , point of which will often be found in a deeper and more limited locality. The bones constituting the walls of these facial cavities, or the periosteum cover- ing them, may also become the original scats of morbid growths, more particularly of enchondroma, and myeloid spindle-celled or round-celled sar- coma. These run a similar course to the growths originating in the mucous membranes. Suppuration in the Antrum.—Suppuration may take place in the I' antrum ; it is usually excited l>y caries of one of the teeth, the fangs of which '■ome in close relation with the ca\’ity, viz., the first and second molar, the bicuspid, and the canine. It occasionally arises from injury. It is usually accompanied at first by deep-seated aching, throbbing, or lancinating pain in the face. The pus as it forms will sometimes overflow, as it were, into the r I* 2