OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID. i8i Oil analysiuo- the eases in which tlie trunk of the coininon carotid has been lipitnred on the distal side of an aneurism of the root of that vessel, there are several points of interest that arrest onr attention. Tims we find that in every case the tnmonr, immediately on the ligature being tightened, underwent a considerable diminution in its bulk, with corrugation of the integuments covering it, and considerable subsidence in the force of its pulsations. In one case—that of Bush—respiration, which before the operation had been attended with great difficulty, became easy ; and in two others inflammation of the sac took place ; being in one (that of lYardrop) unattended by bad conscc|uences, and in the other (Demme’s case) followed by death. It is not safe to deduce any general conclusion from so small a number of cases; yet the result of these is so uniform, that I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that, whether we regard the principle on which this operation is founded, the amount of success which has hitherto attended it, the necessarily fatal result of these cases if left to themselves, or the absence of any other means that hold out a reasonable hope of benefit, the Surgeon is justified in resorting to the ligature of the trunk of the common carotid on the distal side of the sac, in cases of aneurism limited to the root of that vessel. The trunk of the External Carotid is so short that it seldom becomes the seat of aneurism without involving at the same time the end of the common arcery at its bifurcation. It may, how'ever, become aneurismal. The tumour, presenting the usual signs of aneurism, will be found situated under the angle of the jaw and above the level of the cricoid cartilage. From the im- portant nature and close proximity of the parts surrounding it, the pressure- effects are serious and early. By pressm’e on the hypoglossal nerve the muscles of the coiTesponding side of the tongue may be paralysed, so that when pro- truded the tongue is turned towards the affected side. Aphonia and dysphagia have l>een met with as early symptoms. The treatment consists in ligature of the coimnon carotid above the omo- hyoid. After this operation it may happen that pulsation continues faintly, or speedily returns to the sac, owing to the freedom of enlarged anastomoses. It has, therefore, been proposed by Morris to ligature as well the primary branches of the external carotid—a project certainly difficult in execution and probably of doubtful utility. ANEURISM OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID. The Internal Carotid Artery may be the subject of aneurism before or after it has passed through the carotid canal and entered the cavity of the skull. The symptoms of these two classes of cases differ necessarily in almost every respect, as likewise do the termination and the suscejitibility of the case to surgical interference. Extracranial Aneurism.—When an aneurism affects the triudv of the internal carotid before its entrance into the skull, the symptoms presented by this disease do not materially differ from those of aneurism at the bifurcation, or of the upper ]>art of the common carotid, except in one important respect, which was, I believe, first pointed out by Porter of Dulffi'n—viz., the tendency "f the tumour to extend inwards towards the pharynx, and to ]irotrudc into that cavity. The reason of this is obvious; when we consider the anatomical relations of the internal carotid artery, we at once see that its