BISEASL'S OF THE THYROID—GOITRE. 567 atlecting especially its lower and sternal part, occasionally met with in infants. It is observed either at birth or shortly after. It disappears after a lew weeks or months without any special treatment. Its nature is somewhat uncertain ; it has been attributed to injury during birth, especially in cases of breech-i3i*e- seutation ; Bryant considers it inflammatory ; Holmes is inclined to regard it as a congenital hypertrophy ; and by others, it has been referred to syphilis. In a case recorded by F. Taylor, in which the swelling was examined after death, it was found to be due to a new growth of fibrous tissue between the bundles of muscular fibres. The child was syphilitic, and the case was also one of breech-presentation at birth. Diffuse Cellulitis of the Neck. Ludwig’s Angina has been described in Vol. I. at p. ‘J2G. DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. The thyroid gland is subject to various simple chronic enlargements, which commonly go by the name of BroncJiocele oi’ Gotlre. The thyroid gland is com- posed of closed vesicles, lined by a single layer of cubical epithelium, contain- ing a clear albuminous fluid. The vesicles are held together by areolar tissue, supporting numerous vessels of considerable size. Virchow has shown that all forms of bronchocele commence by a true hypertrophy of the gland-substance, but as the enlargement progresses, one or other of the constituent elements of the gland may increase out of proportion to the others. If all the constituents continue to increase equally, the simple bronchocele results ; if the contents of the vesicles accumulate, unduly distending the cavities, the disease assumes the form known as cystic bronchocele. Very commonly there is a great increase of the fibrous tissue, forming the Fibrous Bronchocele, and occasionally great dilatation of the vessels takes place with simple hypertrophy of the remaining structures of the gland, forming the Pulsating Bronchocele. Secondary changes also may modify the structure of the tumour. Of these the most common is a substitution of a gelatinous colloid material for the albuminous fluid normally found in the vesicles of the gland. Calcification also is common both in the walls of the cysts in cystic bronchocele, and in the masses of fibrous tissue in the fibrous goitre. The Causes of bronchocele have been much discussed, both professionally and popularly. The most generally received belief is, that the disease is directly occa.sioned by some impurity in, or peculiarity of, the water that the patients drink ; and it has been supposed that water coming through chalk or limestone is particularly apt to occasion bronchocele in this country, and that water resulting from melted snow is its occasioning cause in Switzerland. But these ideas are gi’oundless. Hard water is drunk largely in this country in districts where no bronchocele occurs, and snow-water is never used in Switzerland ; spring-water of the purest kind only being drunk. It would appear that air and locality have much more to do with the occurrence of bronchocele than water. In mountainous countries the disease occurs almost entirely amongst the inhabitants of valleys, where the air is moist and stagnant ; the inhabitants, especially, of valleys that run north and south, into which the sun does not jienetrate readily, or for many hours in the day, which are always in the shade of neighbouring and overhanging mountains, are especially prone to it. This is well known to be the case in Switzerland,