129 TREATMENT OF RECURRENT PULSATION. [ A Secondary A7ieurism is of extremely rare occurrence ; indeed I believe there are only two unequivocal instances of this affection upon record, both of which took place in the ham ; the original tumour having disappeared entirely after operation, the secondary disease made its appearance after a lapse of six months in one case, and in the other after four years. It is of importance to ■ distinguish between a secondary aneurism and secondary or recurrent pulsation in an aneurismal sac. The term “ secondary anmrmn ” should be restricted ■ to those cases only in which an aneurismal tumour appears in the site of a former one, which has undergone consolidation and absorption. The question may be raised, whether aneurisms of this kind are in reality secondary or whether they may not originate in the dilatation of a portion of the artery contiguous to the seat of a former disease. It is certainly not very easy to understand how an aneurismal sac that has once undergone consolidation and absorption, can again become dilated into a pulsating tumour ; and I think it most probable that, although the consecutive aneurism may be found in the •same surgical region as the primary one, it in reality takes its origin from a slightly higher part of the artery, where the same structural change may have >been in progress that determined the disease in the first instance at a lower •point. Double aneurism thus arising is, indeed, occasionally met with in the ham as a primary disease. I have seen a case in which an aneurismal tumom- was situated in the ham, and another at or immediately above the aperture in hhe adductor muscle : if the artery in such a case as this had been tied before ;:he second tumour had attained any magnitude, we can easily understand mow, when this became dilated, it might have been considered to be a new enlargement of the original sac, whereas, in reality, it was nothing more than i new aneurism forming in the close vicinity of the old one. Enlaryemmt of an aneurismal sac ivithout pidsation, after the ligature of ;;he arteiy leading to it, is an interesting phenomenon, and one that might ".iause the true natm'e of the tumour to be misunderstood, as it closely resembles its slow and gradual increase the growth of a malignant tumour. It is «|vx;casioned by the distension of the sac by regurgitant blood brought into tt through the distal end of the vessel, without sufficient force to cause ^^oulsation, though Avith sufficient pressure to occasion a gradual increase in the liize of the swelling. Treatment of Recurrent Pulsation.—In by far the majority of cases of secon- t lary pulsation, this phenomenon ceases of itself in the course of a few days or k' weeks from consolidation of the sac, in the same way as after ligature of the I'irterj', by the deposition of lamellated fibrine. This tendency to consolida- -ion of the tumour may be much assisted by means calculated to lessen the bree of the impulse of the blood into the sac, such as compression of the iirtery above the point ligatured, rest, the elevated position, and the cautious I ipplication of cold to the part ; cold, however, must be carefully applied, lest, i/he vitality of the limb being diminished, gangrene be induced. At the same :-ime, direct pressure may l)e exercised upon the sac, so as to moderate the flow )f blood into it; this has in many cases succeeded in procuring consolidation bf the tumour, and may most conveniently be applied by means of a compress vnd narrow roller. 'I’his plan is especially adapted to po])liteal and inguinal Aneurisms, but cannot so well Ikj exercised upon those situated in the neck. Jare must be taken that the pressure l)e not at first too powerful, lest gangrene •esult; the object is not so much to force out the conteuts of the tumour, or VOL. IL K- I 4 i