DIAGNOSIS OF 'THE CAUSE OF OBSTRUCTION. 835 1 i beside the protruding gut into the rectum, which it is of course impossible to do iu a case of prolapsus. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the cause of the obstruction is ,of great im- portance ; attention as to whether it assumes the acute or the chronic form, will throw some light upon the conditions that occasion it. It is often difficult to determine whether the obstruction is mechanical, or whether it depends upon some inflammatory aflection of the intestine. The practice to be adopted in any particular case must at last be determined by a history of the symptoms, by a careful exploration of the abdomen and rectum, and by the light that can be thus thrown upon the question, as to whether the obstruction be dependent on causes that are removable or not by medical means. In many instances, the history of the case, the assemblage of strongly-marked symptoms, . and the result of abdominal and rectal exploration, enable the Surgeon to deter- mine, without much difficulty, that the obstruction is dependent on causes that are not removable by any means short of operative interference. But, in other cases, no means that we possess enable us to arrive at a correct or even an approximate diagnosis. Cases are recorded that have ended fatally from obstruction in forty-eight hours, without sickness, fixed pain in the abdomen, or tympanites. These, however, are certainly exceptional, and do not bear upon the question as to the propriety of perfonning gastrotomy in those in- stances in which it can be satisfactorily determined that a mechanical obstacle, not removable by medical means, exists. That the diagnosis may so far be effected with tolerable certainty is evident, from the fact that, in all those cases of gastrotomy which have been of late years practised in this country, me- chanical obstruction, irremovable by any but operative interference, had been diagnosed and was found. In all cases of intestinal obstruction, certain conditions should first be ex- cluded, which, though not generally included under the name, give rise to ■symptoms of a similar nature. These are lead colic, typhlitis, and general acute peritonitis. Lead colic may be in most cases recognized by the history, )y the occurrence of previous attacks, and by the blue line on the gums. r3qchlitis and perityphlitis may be recognized by the history of constipation, > vith gradually increasing pain in the right iliac fossa, followed by a somewhat udden exacerbation when the peritoneum over the gut becomes implicated, '^he obstruction is seldom’ complete, and vomiting does not form a marked • ymptom. There is fulness with acute tenderness over the emeum. In acute ttacks there is usually a distinct elevation of temperature. In many cases j here is a history of pr-evious attacks. Acute peritonitis is recognized by the itense general tenderness, with distension of the abdomen, and the poculiar I omiting without straining. The cases which most nearly resemble some form I'f acute intestinal obstruction are those arising from perforation of the ermiform appendix. The first step in the diagnosis of any case of acute obstruction must always •e a careful examination of the various abdominal and pelvic apertures for )me of the more obscure forms of external hernia ; for in cases of sup- -osed internal strangulation, it has occasionally turned out, after death, that le patient had been labouring under a small femoral, obturator, or sciatic ^:mia. The points that will chiefly engage the Surgeon’s attention in determining le nature of the obstruction are : 1. The previous history of the patient.