158 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. of trcatiiio- aneurism of tlio aortic arcli by ligature of one oi- two of tlie main arteries at the root of the neck, orio-inated in the results of an operation performed by Christopher Heath in ISdO for the cure of a sipiposed innominate aneurism by the simultaneous ligature of the right carotid and subclavian arteries. The patient, a woman of intemperate hahits, suiwived the operation for four years, appearing for a time to have heen benefited by it. On her death it was found that the aneurism was not one of the innominate but of the ascending aorta, and that it had been practically cured by oi* after the operation. Hr. Cockle about the same time was engaged in a series of interesting observations on the spontaneous consolidation of aneurisms of the aortic arch; he found that in some of these cases the left carotid artery had become occluded, and he inferred from this pathological fact that ligature of that vessel might be of use in the treatment of certain forms of aneurism of the arch. This suggestion was acted on by C. Heath, who, in 1872, tied the left carotid artery in a patient of Dr. Cockle’s affected with aneurism of the ascending and transverse portions of the arch. The patient was benefited l>y the operation. Harwell has operated in two cases, in one with advantage. In the other, in which the left subclavian was also tied, the patient died, apparently uninfluenced for good or ill by the operation. Heath’s second case of ligature of the left carotid proved fatal by syncope. In all, the operation appears to have been done 13 times (Ashurst)—in six cases with more or less benefit. In at least four of these cases the arteiy was ligatured on the supposition that the aneurism was situated at the root of the carotid, when, in reality, it occupied the arch. Harwell states that, in those aneurisms which spring from the aorta beyond the left carotid, ligature of this vessel will do more harm than good, and that the operation should be confined to those in which the tumour appears on the left side, but not far from the median line, and rises into the episternal notch or under the left sterno-mastoid. The Simultaneous Ligature of the Right Carotid and Right Subclavian Arteries for aneurism of the aortic arch has, according to Harwell, been done in three cases only for aneurism diagnosed as aortic before the operation. In some other cases, as the one referred to above, diagnosed erroneously as innominate, but pro'\dng in reality to be aortic aneurism, it has also been done. In the three cases of recognized aortic aneurism the opera- tions were done by Harwell, Lediard, and Wyeth. In aU, the “ Ox-aorta ligature” was used, and the patients lived 15 months, 8^ months, and 1 year respectively after the operation (Harwell). The limature of one or more of the main arteries at the root of the neck O for the cure of aneurism of the aortic arch involves a new principle in the treatment of that disease ; one that differs in all respects from that in wiiich the cure of an ordinary external aneurism is effected. Hy whateA'er way the Surgeon acts, whether by the Hunterian or the distal ligature, by compression with instrument or finger, he seeks one common result, viz., the arrest or retardation of the circulation through the sac so as to facilitate the deposit of laminated fibrine or firm clot. He usually acts directly upon tlie artery that is the seat of the disease, and in all cases of the Hunterian operation, or of arterial compression, the supply of blood sent into the sac is most materially diminished, if not altogether arrested. Hut in the treatment of aortic aneurisms by ligature of the left carotid only, or by that of the right carotid at its root, and of the right subclavian in the third part of its i. ■1 A