URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. ioi6 hold sufficient urine to make the operation a safe one, and may i-eadily beeoine dangerously inflamed in consequence of the repeated introduction of instru- ments, and the presence of angular fragments. H'eiice, if the ordinary ojxii-a- tion of sounding occasion much distress ; if the patient cannot hold his urine long, but pass it in small quantities ; if it be bloody, or much loaded with viscid mucus, he will scarcely be able to bear the procedures necessary for the operation. In some instances, however, the irritability of the bladder may l)e overcome, and in all it may be materially lessened, by keeping the patient in bed, and, as Brodie recommends, daily injecting tepid water. If the bladder be sacculated, there will be a still greater risk of an unfavourable result; the sacculi not only retaining fragments of calculus, but also becoming filled with decomposing mucus and urine, in consequence of which unhealthy inflamma- tion of a very serious character, followed by pygemic symptoms and metastatic abscesses, may result, or in some cases leading to perforation of the peritoneum. In such cases as these, early lithotomy offers the only chance to the patient. The existence of a moderate amount of vesical catarrh, if the bladder be other- wise healthy, is no objection to lithotrity. In encysted calcutus, lithotrity is, for obvious reasons, inadmissible. Atony of the Madder is not only a serious inconvenience, but a gi’eat source of danger in lithotrity. It cannot in all cases be positively ascertained before- hand ; though it may be suspected if the patient can hold his urine for a great many hours, and can beai’ "without complaint the injection of a large quantity—eight or ten ounces—of fluid, the interior of the bladder feeling large and smooth to the sound. This condition occurs chiefly in old men of feeble habit of body. Civiale considered this condition to be a source of great danger after lithotrity, the organ not possessing sufficient expulsive power to rid itself of the fragments of the presence of which it seems to be insensible, so far as the feelings of the patient are concerned; while its low vitality renders it peculiarly liable to subacute cystitis, excited by the'presence of the fragments in the lower fundus. By the use of the modern evacuator, a stone of moderate size may, however, be safely removed at one sitting from an atonic bladder. It must be borne in mind, that this atony of the bladder may, especially in feeble and aged individuals, be induced by the contact of the instrument, and especially by prolonged sittings. If the urethra be the seat of stricture, or be very irritable, lithotrity—wliicli may require the frequent introduction of instruments of large size—cannot be safely performed. Stricture of the urethra does not, however, absolutely pre- vent the performance of lithotrity, but only retards the operation until the constriction can be properly dilated. Should this, however, be not practicable to the full extent of the urethra, lithotomy on a small staff must be practised. Moderate enlargement of the 'prostate, such as is often met with in elderly people, does not prevent the performance of lithotrity ; though it slightly complicates the operation. The introduction of the lithotrite will be attended by considerable difficulty ; and the fragments have a tendency to become lodged in a pouch of the lower fundus behind the enlarged gland. This more especially happens if the middle lobe be enlarged ; yet in these circumstances, the stone may be crushed without great difficulty, and the fragments removed by the evacuator. Any inflammatory disefise or abscess of the prostate must necessarily prevent the performance of lithotrity. Diabetes is not commonly associated with calculus. I have, indeed, bu