CARIES OF SPINE—FATIIOLOGICAL COURSE. 419 with eacli other. These centres arc situated most commonly in the imme- : diate neighbourhood of an intervertebral disc, but are not uncommon on the • surface of the body beneath the periosteum, and are sometimes deeply in , ts substance. A macerated specimen shows the bone to be eaten out into 1] iTcgnlar hollows, around which the cancellous tissue is more porous than ' aatnral. In a fresh specimen these hollows are filled with caseous granulation- I Issue. When the disease commences near an intervertebral disc, this is soon ' iestroyed, and the contiguous surface of the next vertebra becomes implicated i f: Fig. 5G(‘>). The friction of the diseased surfaces against each other then aggra- vates the process, and leads to more rapid destruction at the parts where they ; re in contact. It is this form beginning in numerous centres that is most evidently tubercular, and most frequently terminates in suppuration. In some cases instead of the bone being more spongy than natural round he excavations, it may be seen in the macerated specimen that the osteitis las assumed an osteoplastic form, the cancellous tissue being denser than natural, and its trabeculm thickened, just as a zone of dense bone is often oimd around a chronic abscess in the cancellous ends of the long bones. When the disease leads to suppuration, the pus frequently raises the anterior ommon ligament from the vertebrm for some distance. This is more likely D happen when the resulting chronic abscess has opened externally and become 3ptic from the admission of impure air. Rapid destruction of the interverte- ral discs with which the pus comes in contact then frequently takes place, t is not uncommon to find the vertebrse for some distance above and below le centre of disease bare in front, and looking as if macerated, while the rrtilages between them have more or less completely disappeared. The chronic abscesses forming in connection with caries of the spine are idrected to the lateral aspect of the bodies of the vertebrse by the great thick- ess of the anterior common ligament. As the pus accumulates the abscess akes its way, as in the case of chronic abscesses generally, in the direction least resistance, usually following the course of a vessel or burrowing iueath the fascite covering muscles. Thus in disease of the dorsal vertebrse, e abscess follows the intercostal artery and passes between the ribs with the >sterior branch, appearing under the skin of the back as a “ dorsal abscess.” i the lumbar region the abscess may in the same way follow a lumbar artery id fonn a “ lumbar abscess,” or enter the sheath of the psoas muscle and rm a “ psoas abscess,” pointing below Poupart’s ligament. N hen the caries is complicated by necrosis, the sequestra are frequently so dangled in the excavated cavity in the body of the vertebrae, covered in in ont by the thickened anterior ligament, that it is impossible for them to ake their Avay to the surface, and thus even if the disease ceases to extend ppuration may be indefinitely prolonged till it causes the death of the ■tient. d he angular projection backwards of the diseased part of the spine, corres- •nding in extent to the amount of destruction of the vertebrae, forms usually e most marked feature of the disease'(Figs. 5G7—569). The mechanism of this easily understood by reference to the pathology of the affection. The bodies ne or more) of the veitebrae, being softened or partly destroyed, at last give ly nnder the Aveight of the upper part of the body ; the upper part bends I wards, and the spines project posteriorly. At the same time that the upper •rt Ijends forAvards, the loAver part of the spine rarely maintains the upright B K 2 m 4 it ri if; i V) A If ■IS