932 UlilNAliY CALCULUS'S AND LITHOTOMY. known to break np spontaneously into small fragments. The urate of ammonia calculus is of very rare occurreuoe ; it occurs chiefly in children, is coiuposed of concentric rings, has a fine earthy appearance, and is clay-coloured. The uric acid calculus may be distinguished from the urate of ammonia by heating a fragment in solution of caustic potash : both dissolve, but the urate of ammonia evolves ammonia in the process of solution. Treatment.—The treatment of uric acid deposits must be directed to the removal of the prime causes of this condition, viz., mal-assimilation, defective oxygenation, and the ingestion of too large a quantity of nitrogenous food, xill these may be remedied by attention to ordinary hygienic measures ; the patient must live sparely, should avoid fer- mented liquors, especially red and effervescent wines, and abstain from sweets, pastry, &c. He should take plenty of out-door exercise, and keep the skin in healthy action by warm dry air or vapour bathing, and the use of horsehair gloves. The bowels also must be carefully regulated by means of saline and other aperients, with occasional altera- tive doses of blue pill ; to which, if the constitution l)e peculiarly rheumatic or gouty, some colchicum may advan- tageously be added. Preferable to all medicines, perhaps, are the natural aperient saline waters of Piillna, Friedi’ich- Carlsbad, taken fasting. The patient may also be directed Fis. S26.—Uric Acid Calculus. SO. The dumb-bells sometimes become agglomerated into small rounded masses. forming the so-called hemp-seed calculi. The origin of oxalate of lime in the urine is a somewhat doubtful point. Oxalic acid is not present normally ifl the urine, and is supposed to be derived from uric acid by imperfect . oxidation. It has been ascribed also to the imperfect oxidation of the carbo- hydrates taken as food. Certain articles of diet, as sorrel and rhubarb, which contain oxalates in considerable quantities, will cause their presence in the irrine. It was formerly supposed to be associated with marked symptoms indicating the so-called oxalic diathesis, the patient being pale, hypochon- driacal, dyspeptic, and suffering from acidity of the stomach, disturbed sleep, and loss of sexual power. W. Roberts, however, states that oxaluria accom panies no constant train of symptoms, and asserts that the presence of oxalate; furnishes no definite indication for treatment. Urine containing oxalates i usually pale, abundant, and acid, and may cause some sensation of heat aiic pain in its passage along the urethra. It forms no definite depiosit, but usuallv associated with a slight excess of mucus. The crystals adhere to th shall, or to drink some of the natural alkaline waters, as those of Vichy, Vais, or Fachingen. The Vichy waters, containing a large quantity of carbonate of soda, with free carbonic acid, are often extremely serviceable. If they cannot be procured, a very good alkaline drink consists of a scTuple of bicarbonate of potash and five grains of nitre dissolved in a tumbler of cold or tepid water, to which about five grains of citric acid or a tablespoonful of lemon-juice may be added ; this should be taken early in the morning or in the middle of the day. The preparations of lithia are of essential service in removing uric acid gravel or in clearing the urine of urates. They may be given alone, or in combination with the citrate or carbonate of potash. Deposits of Oxalate of Lime.—Oxalate of lime appears in two forms, as octahedra (Fig. 827), and as dumb-bells. The crystals are colourless or nearly ■i«i "n h I fte .1 ■ I