3i6 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. From cystic tumours of bone the diagnosis is often impossible, as the great majority of “ cysts of bone ” (except in the jaws) are really soft sarcomata with cysts developed in the tumour. It is only by cutting into the diseased part that the nature of the disease can be ascertained. From dismse of the neiylibouriny joint, the diagnosis is made by observing that the joint does not form the centre of the swelling, and that movement, although limited, is not painful, and is unaccompanied by grating or crackling in the articulation. Should the tumour have penetrated the joint, which is very rare, the difficulty of diagnosis becomes greatly increased. Peripheral Sarcoma is most frequently mistaken for a deep seated chronic abscess, but the absence of true fluctuation, the presence of a rounded edge to Fig. 525.—Rapidly gi’owing malignant Tii- moui- of the Head of the Humerus, with Spontaneous Fractui’e of the Shaft. Fig. 526.—Section of rapidly growing malignant Tumour of Head of Humerus : upiier end and Head of Humerus destroyed, hut Cartilage of Incrustation unaffected. Timiour divided by white vertical lines —the Periosteum : inside which only were tlie Os- seous Spicula found. the tumour, and its fixed attachment to the bone will usually enable the Surgeon to recognize the nature of the disease. In all doubtful cases the swelling must be punctured with an aspirator. Even when the presence of a tumour is evident, it is not always easy to make sure that it is attached to the bone. Examination under chloroform, with complete relaxation of the muscles, will usually, however, overcome this difficulty. The diagnosis from aneurism is necessarily unattended by any difficulty so long as its sac is pervious to fluid blood, and presents the characters that are met with in this condition. But if the sac have become consolidated by the deposit of stratifled laminae, and thus have assmned the characters of a solid tumour, it may readily enough be mistaken for a tumour springing from the osseous structure, and amputation has occasionally been performed on tins supposition (as in Fig. 447). Pulsating sarcoma may be mistaken for