PY.EMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. 917 I; A' ■I J Pyaemia and Septicaemia in Diseases of the Urinary Organs.—Tliose conditions are not nncoininonly the cause of death after operations on the urinary passages. Their general symptoms and pathology have been already fully described ; but a few words on the peculiarities they frequently manifest when secondary to affections of the urinary organs may not bo out of place here. Pyj'^mia may assume the ordinary rapid course of embolic pymmia, Avith secondary abscesses in the viscera ; but this is not of very frequent occurrence. Should it occur, softening thrombi will usually be found in the prostatic plexus or in the vesical branches of the internal iliac vein. More commonly visceral abscesses are wanting, the secondary seats of suppuration being most frequently the joints and subcutaneous tissue. In such cases the prognosis, though bad, is not hopeless. The disease not uncommonly assumes a chronic form, and the patient may recover after long suffering, possibly, Avith one or more joints stiffened. Septiemmia may appear under the forms of septic poisoning and septic infection. Poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putre- faction is probably the immediate cause of death in many of those cases in Avhich the bladder, ureters, and pelves of the kidneys are filled Avitli foul de- composing urine and mucus. Its symptoms present nothing peculiar. Septic infection may be assumed to be the cause of death in those cases in Avhich there is febrile disturbance of varying severity, preceded or not by a rigor, and ending in death from exhaustion in a period of from a few days to a fortnight or three Aveeks, and in Avhich at the post-mortem examination a definite source of infection can be found, Avithout the presence of such an accumulation of putrid matter in the urinary tract as to render mere septic poisoning probable, and without eA’ident fatal disease of the kidney. Such cases are not un- commonly met Avith, especially after operations on the urethra, and less :fr'equently after those affecting the bladder. In one case in UniA^ersity ' College Hospital the source of infection was a slight injury fr’om the point of a catheter to a prominent ridge of a fasciculated bladder. In these cases the Avound is found to be covered Avith an adherent grey layer, closely resembling ; the false membrane of diphtheria. A section carried through this, and the j parts beneath, sIioavs that the membranous layer is composed of a coagulated “fibrinous exudation, everywhere crowded with micrococci. The submucous t tissue and the parts beyond, show the ordinary appearances of inflammation, and in many cases the micrococci can be recognized invading the affected tissues. : In some cases further investigation shows the nearest lymphatic glands to be ■ SAVollen, and micrococci may be found forming colonies in their substance. Under these circumstances there is strong reason to believe that the diseased •spot has been the source of the mischief, and that some infective material t has found admission from it, and by infecting the Avhole system has been the cause of death. 'J’he relation of these cases to the chronic form of pygemia is A'eiy close ; possibljq the two conditions are identical, the presence or absence of secondary abscess being merely an accidental variation. The chief peculiarity of the condition i.s- that, although there seems good evidence of a general infective proccs.s, it tends to run a somewhat chronic course, some- times histing for weeks before terminating fatally, and, probably, in many cases ending in recoA’cry.