79 ^JEYOIB LIPOMA. often attain a large size, and may sonietinies involve the intcguinental ■ structures on the inside of the thigh, or on the pcrinieum, as well as the vulva. When the growth is confined to the vulva, it is best removed by the ligature. Some time ago, I removed in this way a large pendulous venous ■ n'cCvus, as large as two or three flattened walnuts, from the left labium of a ; little girl si.v years of age. In this case, I found it most convenient to employ the continuous ligature. The same means were had recourse to in : order to extirpate a large mevus from the labium of a child three years of age ; but in this case the disease extended to the integuments of the peri- ' najum and inner side of the thigh, and was here removed by the application of , strong nitric acid, after the larger growth had separated, i On the Extremities, Neck, and Trunk every possible variety of nae^ms i occui-s. When the disease is flat, consisting rather of staining of the skin than I of any actual tumour, it may commonly be treated successfully by the applica- • tion of the strong tincture of iodine ; or should it be thought desirable to I remove it, this may be effected by rubbing it with strong nitric acid. If the ncevus assume the form of a tumour, it will almost invariably be of a venous : character, and then removal by excision by means of the ligature should be eflected. If the growth be round, the ordinary quadruple ligature may be employed : if flat or elongated, the longitudinal continuous ligature is preferable. XiEVOiD Lipoma.—This is a form of ntevus which I have occasionally seen, but which does not appear to have attracted much notice, although ISFelaton ( speaks of it, and Billroth says that in lipoma he has several times met with 1 cavernous dilatation of the veins. It is a tumour in which the nsevoid i stmeture is conjoined with a fatty growth usually more fibrous than an i ordinary lipoma. This disease is invariably seated upon the nates, back, or thigh. It occurs as a smooth, doughy, indolent tumoui, incompressible, not varying in size or shape, without heat, thrill, or pulsation of any kind, possibly having a few veins ramifying over its surface, but no distinct vascular appearance. It is usually congenital, or has been noticed in early childhood ; and it continues without any very material change in shape, size, or appear- ance, until the inconvenience or deformity occasioned by it requires its removal. This is best effected by the knife. After removal, the tumour will be found to be composed of a mass of fibrous fat, having a large number of veins ramifying through it, so as to constitute a distinct vascular elemeut, often communicating with small cysts containing a bloody fluid. The tumour has occasionally a tendency to recur after removal. In one case I have operated three times for the removal of a large growth of this descrip- tion, situated on the buttock, and extending forward towards the perimpum. The first operation was performed in 1851 ; the second in 1856; and the patient, then eighteen years of age, again presented himself in 1868 with a recurrence of the growth in an ulcerated state, in the cicatrix of the former operations. The situation in which I have seen such tumours occur, where they gave rise to most inconvenience, and where their removal has required the greatest care, has been the anterior part of the thigh, just below Poupart’s ligament, close upon and almost in connection with the femoral ^•essels. In a case of this description, which was sent to me by Edwards of Antigua, the patient, a gentleman of that island, had suffered for some years from a chronic solid mdema of one of his legs, apparently dependent u])on the pres-