771 IR RED IX XRLE HERNIA—INFL A MED. f tlie onientiiin, aud the iiaiTowing of its neck, may prevent a return ol the aipture. The existence of adhesions, either l)etween the sac and its contents, r between protruded intestine and oineutum, will commonly render a hernia iTcducible ; and most frequently these are associated with changes in the hape of the sac or of the omentum. Hernim of the ca3cuui and bladder can '.ever be returned, on account of the anatomical conditions, to which reference .as already been made. Symptoms.—An irreducible hernia is usually a source of great incon- r ■ enience ; it has a tendency to increase if left to itself, until at last it may f 1 ontain, as in some extreme cases it has been found to do, the greater portion the abdomiual viscera, forming an enormous tumour, inconvenient by its ' ze and weight, in which the penis and scrotum are buried. Even when the 'Teducible hernia is of small size, it gives rise to a sensation of weakness in le part, ^vith di-agging pains, and is very frequently accompanied by colicky ui.satious and dyspeptic derangements. The patient also, in these circum- . ances, is in a state of considerable danger lest the rupture become straugu- ■ted by violent efforts, or injured and inflamed by blows. ' Treatment.—For the above reasons it is necessary not only to j^rotect a ipture of this kind from external violence, but to endeavour to prevent its , crease in size. This may best be done by letting the patient wear a truss iith a large concave pad, which supports and protects it ; provided the ipture be not of too great a size for the application of such an instrument. * its magnitude be very considerable, it must be supported by means of a tspensory bandage. Bransby Cooper has recommended that an attempt lould be made to convert the irreducible into a reducible hernia, by keeping le patient in bed for several weeks, on Ioav diet, with the continued applica- ;on of ice to the tumour. If it contains much omentum, and the patient be ;t, the diet may be regulated accordingly. All food containing starch or lA^gar, except a small quantity of bread, and all alcoholic drinks must be for- dclen. The patient must be fed on a small quantity of lean meat and een vegetables. At the same time a dose of blue pill and a saline purgative list be given occasionally, and I have advantageously administered iodide of otassium to promote absorption of the fat. The scrotum, if the liemia be .'guinal, must be raised on a pillow, and the foot of the bed may also be ’2vatcd. Taxis may be attempted daily. 1 By this plan I have seen very large irreducible herniEe returned in a few jck.s. If the patient be young and otherwise healthy, the question of per- rmiug the operation for radical cure by opening the hernia, dissecting rough the adhesions, removing the sac and sewing up the ring may be nsidered. Such an operation, however, should not be rashly undertaken if e hernia be large and the patient fat. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia.—The occurrence of inflammation in an educible hernia is a serious complication, and one that simulates strangula- nn veiy closely. When this complication occurs, the part becomes hot, ider, and painful; there is not much tension in the tumour, which is .doin increased beyond its usual magnitude ; there is a good deal of pyrexia, id symptoms of j)eritonitis spreading from the vicinity of the inflamed pture set in. In some cases there is vomiting ; hut it is not constant, and ver fEeculcnt, occurring generally early in the disease, and consisting princi- lly of the contents of the stomach ; being apparently an effort of nature to 3 n 2