r I 68 DISEASES Ob' THE TESTIS AEl) COIlI). fistulous opcniucr is left. Tliroiioh this aperture a fuii^-iis (hernia testis, or henigu fungus of the testicle) speedily i)rotrudes, Mhich grows sometimes slowly, sometimes rapidly, perhaps attaining a very coiisidera])le size (Fig. t)72). As the fungus increases, the organ appears to atro])hy,hut in reality is pressed out of the scrotum and merges into the fungus. This fungus is not a new growth, but^ is composed of the tubuli testis and inflammatoi-y products. Tt is in the form of a pale-reddish yellow granular mass. If small and firm, it may liecome a very chronic complaint; but if large, rapidly growing, and loose-textured, it si)cedily destroys the secreting structure of the testis, leaving Jiothing but a thick- ened epididymis and a contracted and shrunken tunica albuginea. It is, however, surprising how long the functions of this organ will continue, though its tissue is in a great measure destroyed, and its structure traversed by suppurating fistulae. In other cases no fungus appears but a fistulous- track may be left, leading to an impei-fectly drained cav ity surrounded by indurated tissue, and this may remain unhealed for months or even years. Occasionally, instead of bursting and gi’cihg rise to fungus, the abscess may become surrounded by dense fibroid tissue and remain stationary, and this dense wall has been known to calcify. Simple chronic orchitis can usually be distinctly attributed to a blow, squeeze, or other injury by which inflammation has been excited in the Fig. 972.—Hernia Testis. Benign Fungus of the Testicle. organ. Structure.—On making a section of a testicle affected with simple cln’onic inflammation, the tunica vaginalis will be found to be more or less adherent, and perhaps separated from the tunica albuginea in parts by small collections of fluid. The tunica albuginea is thickened, often presenting on its external surface a series of firm, glistening layers. The septa of the testis are seen to be thickened, rendering the whole organ hard and firm, and giving it a bluish- grey apjDeai’ance. In the midst of this, soft opaque yellow spots may be seen. These have been mistaken for tubercle, but are in reality masses of chronic inflammatory products that have undergone fatty degeneration. The micro- scope shows that the chronic inflammation chiefly affects the intertubular fibrous tissue, but in many cases this is accompanied by catarrhal overgrowth of the epithelium. Prognosis.—Simple chronic orchitis usually terminates in recovery, but the organ may be left somewhat enlarged and indurated, or in other cases it may undergo atrophy as the inflammatory products hecome absorbed. Treatment.—Strapping and the administration of an alterative course of |)erchloride of mercury may be tried. If the organ do not diminish in size by these means, or if it be a source of much inconvenience to the patient, it must be removed. If accompanied by hydi'ocele the tunica vaginalis must be tapped, but on no account should injection of iodine be resorted to. If atweesses form, they must be opened. AVhen a fungus has protruded through one of the fistulous apertures, means must be taken to repress or remove this, lest it go on to complete destruction of tlie testis. If it be of small size, the best plan will be to sprinkle it with red oxide of mercury, and to strap it