1042 DISEASES OF THE EL ADDER. Trealmcnl.—Atony of the hladder, except in the few cases that arise from a single over-distension, is an incurable airection. It is dependent upon senile changes in the viscns of an organic character that may he ]•elie^'ed but cannol he remedied, ddie great danger in this state arises li-oin the retained urine, even though retention be by no means complete. So long as this residual urine is in small quantity no harm results. Even when it accumulates so as to amount to several ounces, it may give rise to no symjjtoms beyond freciueney of micturition. Sooner or later, however, the over-distension causes some in-i- tation of the bladder, and the urine becomes cloudy from excess of mucus. Decomposition of the retained urine then frequently takes place, either fmm extension of decomposition down the urethra or after the passage of instru- ments, as already described. It must not be supposed that mere retention of a small quantity of urine after each act of micturition is sufficient in itself to cause decomposition. Nothing is more common than to find patients who have not emptied their bladders for many months, and yet '\s'hose urine is perfectly normal in every respect. The statement sometimes made that de- composition never takes place till after an instrument has l>een passed, is, however, not accurate, although in the great majority of cases the urine be- comes ammoniacal only after surgical interference. When this takes place all the symptoms of chronic or subacute cystitis set in. Febrile disturbance of the type of chronic septic poisoning sets in, and death may follow. This is more especially likely to happen when the kidneys are affected by chronic interstitial nephritis, which, as already pointed out (p. i)12), is a common result of prolonged over-distension of the bladder. The primary object of all treatment in ordinary uncomplicated senile atony of the bladder is to free the patient from the residual urine, which he is no longer able to expel. This can be done only by the use of the catheter, and it is the duty of the Surgeon to teach the patient how to use this instrument for himself, so that at all times he may be the master of his own situation, and relieve himself when necessary. The commencement of “ catheter-life,” as it has been appropriately tenned by Sir Andrew Clark, is an important period in a man’s existence. For when once the use of the instrument has been begun, it can rarely be discontinued. Hence it is well not to begin it unnecessarily early. But it is of at least equal importance not to fall into the opposite error of delaying its use too long, lest the residual urine be allowed to accumulate to such an extent as to become a source of discomfort to the patient, of injmy to his general health, and ot danger by inducing septic cystitis and all its concomitant evils. The use of the catheter in cases of atony of the bladder for the removal oi residual urine is a very simple business, and, if the kidneys be sound and the most ordinary precautions taken, unattended by any danger. The safest catheter to use is a soft one. Metallic instruments need not be used by the Surgeon, and should never be employed by the patient himself. The ordinary elbowed prostatic catheter, or the conical one with a bulbous end of medium size, Avill be found the most convenient. This should be passed whilst the patient is standing up, Avith every jDOSsible care and gentleness. The instru- ment should be lubricated Avith an antiseptic oil. After and before use the instrument must be AA’ashed in cold carbolized Avater, so that all chance may be avoided of fermentative material being carried into the bladder, and thus leading to })utrofactioii of the urine. At first it may be quite sufficient if the