510 DEFORMITIES. Avill bo covered by tlie flap taken from the dorsum of the middle, and vice versd, as is seen in the accompanying diagram (Fig. G29). Fig. 629.—Diagram of Flaps in Operation for Webbed Finger, with thick Septum. Fig. 630.—«. The lines of the two incisions uniting, so as to divide the Web and leave a Flap on each side. h. The Flaps de- tached from the ojiposite Fingers to those to which they are adherent, c. Tlie Flaps applied to the Fingers, and covering in the raw and exposed surfaces. In the accompanying cut (Fig. 630), transverse sections of the fingers are shown. DEFOBMITIES OP THE LEG AND FOOT. Knock-knee.—The deformity termed Genu Valgum, Knock or X-^iiee, usually affects both extremities, though it is generally more fully developed in one than in the other. In it the knee forms the apex of a triangle, the base of Avhich wonld be represented by a line drawn from the trochanter to the outer ankle. Knock-knee arises at two periods of life ; first, during early child- hood, when it is usually the result of rickets, and is most frequently conjoined with some curvature of the bones of the leg; and secondly, about puberty, when it is due to relaxation of the ligaments, and is frequently the result of canying heavy weights. At this period it is often conjoined with weak ankles and splay foot. In many cases the flat and everted foot is probably the primary affection. Bock states that ont of 221 cases which he examined, 17 originated about the period of the first dentition, and 200 between that age and the 15th or 18th year. Some occupations are said to predispose to it, smiths being especially liable to the disease. In whatever way the deformity arises there is relaxation or stretching of the internal lateral ligament; the biceps, the external lateral ligament, and often the vastus externus are tense ; and the patella is thrown outwards. In cases which arise directly from weakness and relaxation of the ligaments. Little states that a distinct gap, often of consider- able width, may be felt between the inner side of the head of the tibia and the femur. From an early period in the rickety form, and at a later stage in cases of simple relaxation of the ligaments, the bones become altered in foiru. The internal condyle is elongated, sometimes, according to Macewen, to the extent of an inch. It is evident that in knock-knee the pressure in standing would be somewhat lessened on the inner side, the Aveight being unduly thrown upon the outer condyle. It is believed that as the result of this the growth of the outer condyle is arrested, and that of the inner is exaggerated. The lengthening of the inner condyle is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in its antero-postcrior diameter, consequently when the knee is flexed