SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 184 Science, vol. xxv., mentions a case of mnltiloculaT aneurism of the left pos- terior cerebral artery as lai'o-e as a small ap])le ; and Serres, one as larj^e as a hen’s eg-g-. On the other hand, they occasionally prove fatal by rupture whilst still of very small size—not larger than a j)ea or a nut. It is seldom that more than one of the arteries of the brain suffer aneurisma! dilatation. I n the Musenin of the College of Surgeons, however, are the pre- IDarations (Nos. 1(!87 and 1088) of aneurismal dilatation of both internal carotid arteries, resembling “two bulbs about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow on each side the sella Turcica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries ; and from their being filled with lamintE of coagulated blood, there could be little doubt of their being aneurisms of these arteries. The one on the left side was the largest; that on the right side communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other.” A case occurred in University College Hospital many years ago, under the care of A. T. Thomson, in which a somewhat similar condition existed. A man, forty-nine years of age, had fallen on his head some months before ad- mission into the Hospital. Since then he had been garrulous, silly, and very irritable—becoming readily intoxicated. He suddenly became comatose, with vomiting and laborious breathing ; he could close both eyes, but the right pupil was dilated ; the left side was paralysed. He was treated for apoplexy, and became slightly better, but died in ten days from the first attack. On examination, an aneurism a little larger than a hazel-nut was found on the trunk of the right carotid, where it gave off the middle cerebral artery, and another small one on the course of that artery. There was a globular aneurism on the corresponding artery of the opposite side ; the basilar arteiy was thickened, white, and opaque, as were also the other larger arteries of the brain ; there was softening of both anterior cerebral lobes, esj)ecially the right one. The arteries of the brain are very commonly healthy hi these cases. Out of four instances of intracranial aneurism that have fallen under my observation, the other vessels of the brain have been healthy in three cases, and atheroma- tous in but one. In one case I have seen aneurism ivithin the skull associated with aneurism elsewhere—in the thoracic aorta. Pressure-Effects.—The pressure exercised by an aneurismal sac situated within the skull is always chiefly directed against the yielding cerebral substance, which is often extensively disorganized. The bones of the skull, however close their proximitity to the sac may be, frequently escape, and seldom suffer much. This peculiarity in the effects of aneiu’ism in this situation may be partly owing to the very dense and compact character of the inner layer of the skull, but is doubtless principally due to the very soft and yielding nature of the contents of the cavity. Absorption of the subjacent bone, however, sometimes takes place to a limited extent; thus in one case (Moore’s) the body of the sphenoid bone was indented and partially absorbed. The parts compressed in each case will vary according to the situation of the tumour. But the structures that principally suffer arc necessarily those seated at the base of the brain, and forming the floor of the lateral ventricles. In Moore’s case, one of the optic nerves was flattened by the pressure of the sub- stance of the anterior lobe ; the lamina perforata, the roots of the olfactory tract, the anterior part of the corpus striatum, and a considerable quantity of