277 DIFFUSE SEPTIC OSTEOMYELITIS. cancellous tissue or the medullary canal, the products of decomposition will readily diffuse themselves into the soft medullary tissue. This becomes acutely inflamed, and pus is rapidly formed, or owing to the confined space in which the medullary tissue is contained, the inflammatory swelling may arrest the circulation and cause gangi-ene. Whether it ends in gangrene or suppuration the products of the inflammation in their turn decompose, and thus the pro- cess rapidly spreads throughout the medullary tissue. Simple putrefaction is thus sulRcient, in most cases, to explain the phenomena of dilfuse osteomye- litis, without supposing that any specific virus is present. It is probable, i however, that in many cases the wound is really infected with some specific virus analogous to that of diffuse phlegmonous erysipelas or spreading gangrene, for difluse osteomyelitis may attack several patients in one ward at the same I time, and, in fact, is predisposed to by all those conditions which have already been described as influencing the occuiTeuce of other infective processes in wounds. The pus and gangrenous medulla are always found to contain micro- scopic organisms, but they are not uniform in character. The process is often accompanied by offensive decomposition and blackening of the gan- grenous-tissues from the generation of sulphuretted hydrogen. Septic osteo- myelitis is one of the most common causes of embolic pymmia. The con- ■ nection between these conditions has been specially pointed out by Sir ' Joseph Fayrer, who has had abundant opportunities of studying the disease in India. The fii’equency with which pyaemia follows this affection is due to the fact that the veins of bone, lying as they do in rigid canals, do not readily collapse, a condition highly favourable to the extension of throm- i bosis. The thrombi thus formed become impregnated with the products ; of the unhealthy process, disintegrate, and are washed on into the blood- I stream, causing centres of suppuration wherever they lodge. It is this that 1 makes septic osteomyelitis a most dangerous disease, frequently proving fatal. I There is, in fact, a triple pathological sequence of osteomyelitis, osteo-phlebitis and pyaemia, which is of a marked character, t Fat-embohsm has been observed in many cases of acute osteomyelitis, I the liquid fat from the broken down marroAV being forced into the vessels or lymphatics by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation. If the emboli I are impregnated with the products of decomposition, they may give rise to abscesses in distant parts where they lodge. If the patient escape the dangers of pyaemia, the disease almost invariably leads to more or less extensive necrosis affecting chiefly the inner layer of the compact tissue. The long sequestra so frequently removed from stumps, especially after amputation of the thigh, are the result of this process (see Vol. I., p. 71). After death, the appearances presented by the inflamed bone Avill, if it have been the seat of compound fracture, be usually most marked in the upper frag- ment ; if it have been the seat of amputation or excision, they Avill extend through the whole of the bone that is left. They are as follows. The periosteum and outer surface of the bone Avill appear to be slightly injected. On making a longitudinal section of the bone, the part that is inflamed will be found to present the following appearances. The medullary canal is filled with pus or a reddish puriform fluid, often abominably offensive ; the medulla is swollen, soft, pulpy, of a deep red or reddish-brown colour ; the compact bone has a pinkish tinge, and the cancellous osseous structure is often of a bright rosy hue