VARIETIES OF CARIES. 283 attccting the short bones of the tarsus and the cancellous tissue of the heads of the long hones are dependent on the presence of tubercle. The fact that Billroth has found cheesy tubercular deposits in internal organs in 54 per cent, of the cases of caries examined by him is a strong confirmation of this view. He gives the proportions in which these were met with in disease of the different bones as follows: shoulder-joint, 77‘7 per cent.; bones of the chest, 65'5 ; ankle, G4 ; knee, (»2’G ; elbow, G2’3 ; spine, 5G’8 ; \mst, 51'2 ; pelvis, 50'5 ; hip, 47’5 ; tibia, 58 ; skull and face, 83‘G. The Imigs were most commonly affected. It is probable that in many of these the general infection was secondary to the disease of the bone, though it is quite possible that in some the reverse may have been the case. In some cases it is possible that an injury may serve as the starting point of the disease, the tubercle being deposited as a secondary complication. Syphilitic caries has already been described (see Syphilis, Vol. I, p. 1117). It affects most commonly the surface of bones and is then the result of a soften- ing sub-periosteal gumma. The disease does not penetrate deeply, but leaves I the surface rough and porous, and is accompanied by a good deal of inflam- I mation of the soft parts around the affected bone. It occurs most frequently ! in adults and is very chronic. In all forms of caries in which suppuration takes place as soon as the result- I ing abscess is opened, decomposition of the discharges ensues, unless precau- j tions be taken to prevent it, and the irritation caused by the contact of the I septic matter with the diseased surface tends to perpetuate the chronic inflam- j mation and cause extension of the destruction of the bone. In wounds of joints caries may result after destruction of the cartilages merely i from the combined irritation of the friction or pressure of the articular surfaces against each other and the contact of septic matter. Caries may therefore be divided, according to its cause, into simple, tuber- cular and S)q)hilitic. All these forms are predisposed to by a scrofulous constitution and aggravated by decomposition of the discharges when this happens. It is not always possible to distinguish clinically between the different varieties. Caries is divided also into superficial, central or articular, according to the part of the bone which it affects. Many other terms are applied to caries, according to the various modifica- tions which the process may undergo. When the inflammatory new growth forms rapidly in the cancellous spaces which thus soon become filled with vascular granulation-tissue before which the bony cancelli Avaste away and finally disappear, the disease is termed fungating caries or caries fungosa. This form is common in the short bones ' and in the epiphyses of long bones. If the morbid process reaches the cavity of a joint the fungating granulation-tissue sprouts into it, and spreads over the cartilages and synovial membrane, leading finally to complete destruction of the articulation (see Diseases of Joints). After reaching a certain degree of development, fatty degeneration sets in in the new tissue, and this is usually folloAved by softening and slow suppuration. Fungating caries is most com- monly associated with the presence of tubercle, but it is not yet proved that it 18 always so, or that Avlien tubercles, with the characteristic bacilli, are found in the fungating tissue, they have been the primary cause of the process. When the bone is extensively destroyed, as is frequently seen in the vertebra).