ClIEILOPLASTY—BUCHANAN'S OPERATION. nj, '* ; t ; .11 f'i i i) I 11 f 621 vertically dowuAvards below the jaw, for a «;rcater or less distance according to the amount to be removed, even if necessary as far as the hyoid bone. The diseased part of the lip is then removed by a transverse incision below it. The square flap marked out by the two vertical incisions is then detached from above downwards. It is then brought up, and fixed to the pared edges of the remaining portion of the lip by points of suture ; the head being kept properly inclined, in order to prevent undue tension. After sufficient union has taken place to preserve the vitality of the flap, its lower attachment may be divided. This operation is not usually very satisflictory in its results, as the new flap is apt to become cedematous and inA'erted at the edge, or the flow of saliva may interfere with proper union. In those cases in Avhich the greater portion of the lower lip has been excised for cancerous disease affecting its upper margin, another procedure for the restoration of the deformity consists in a modification of the iflan recommended by Serres; and from this I have derived excellent results, as in the case Avhich is here represented (Fig. 711). The object of the operation is to raise the lower lip to a level with the incisor teeth. An incision, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is made directly outwards from the angle of the mouth, on each side, into the cheek ; : from the extremity of this, a cut is carried obliquely dowmvards on to the upper margin of the lower lip, so as to excise the included triangular piece ; the lower lip is then dissected away from the jaw, from the inside of the : mouth, and a V-s^^^-ped piece is taken out of its centre. By means of a hare- i lip pin on each side, and a point of suture, the incisions in the angle of the mouth are brought accurately together ; and in the same way the vertical one, in the centre, is united (Fig. 712). In this Avay the whole of the lower lip is raised, and brought more forwards. If care have been taken in removing the cancer from the edge of the lip, to leave the mucous membrane rather long (which may always be. done, when the skin is affected to a greater extent than it), a good prolabium may be formed, and the restoration effected with but little deformity. Buchanan, of (xla.sgow, as far back as 1841, published an account of a method for restoring the lower lip Avhen affected by extensive cancerous disease, which leaves most satisfactory results. The accompanying figures illustrate the kind of case in which Buchanan’s operation is applicable, the lines of incision required, and the appearance presented by the chin and lip after the disease has been removed, and the flaps brought into proper apjxjsition. The steps of the operation are simple, and the result is excellent. The diseased part of the lower lip is first removed by nii elliptical incision (Fig. 713, A B a). An incisioii, b c, is then earned downwards and outwards