LIGATURE OF ABDOMTXAL AORTA. 237 Stokes, of Dublin ; and once, in circumstances "which will be presently de- scribed, by Czerny, of Vienna. t.vjble of cases of ligature of A1M)0MIN"AL AORTA FOR ANEURISMS. SURGEON. SEX. AOE. DATE. NATURE OK ANEURISM. OrEUATIONS. RESULTS. ]. SiRA.COOrER. M. 38 1817 Diffused liigiiinal Incision through Peritoneum. Death in 40 hours. 2. James. M. 44 1820 External Iliac. Distal liga- ture first: Peiitoncum opened. Death in a few hours. 3. MURR-VY. M. 1834 Inguinal. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 24 hours. L Moxteiro. M. 1842 Diffused Inguinal Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death 01110th day. 0. South. M. 28 1850 Common Iliac. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 43 hours. McGuire. M. 30 18()8 Lower part of Aorta, both Commonlliacs, and Left Ex- ternal Hiac. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 12 hours. • 7. "W. Stokes. 1 1 1 1 1 1 M. 50 18(;0 Iliac. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 13 hours. In Sir A. Cooper’s case, the inguinal aneurism had burst, and the aorta was tied about three-quarters of an inch above its bifurcation, by making an incision three inches in length through the abdomen, a little to the left of the um- bilicus, the fingers being passed between the convolutions of the intestines, and the peritoneum covering the artery .being scratched through. The patient suiwived forty hours. James ligatured the aorta much in the same way as Sir A. Cooper did, in a case in which he had previously employed the distal opera- tion for an inguinal aneurism; but without success, the patient speedily dying. ^Murray ligatured the vessel by making an incision 011 the left side, in front of the projecting end of the tenth rib, and carrying it do^vnwards for six inches to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The parts were then carefully di-vuded to the peritoneum, which was separated from the iliac fossa and the j)Soas muscle, when, with great difficulty, and by scratching with the end of an elevator and the finger-nails, room was made for the passage of the ligature round the artery, which was tied tlnee or four lines above its bifurcation. The patient died in twenty-three hours. The most interesting case on record is that by !Monteiro, who tied the aorta for a large false aneinism on the lower and right side of the abdomen ; here the incision was made much as in Murray’s case, and the artery ligatured with great difficulty. The patient lived till the tenth day, when he died of secondary hasmorrhage. In South’s case, the aorta "Was tied behind the peritoneum by an incision on the left side of the abdomen. The patient died in forty-three hours. McGuire’s patient had an aneurismal tumour of the size of a goose’s egg iu the left iliac region. Digital pressure