MAXAGEMENT OF ADHESIOXS. 793 any connections that have been formed about the neck of the sac, and which constitute the most effectual barrier against fmculent extravasation. When the adhesions are recent, consisting merely of plastic matter, in whatever situation they exist, they may readily be broken down with the finger or the handle of the scalpel, and the parts then returned. When of old standing, and dense, they must be dealt with according to their connections. Most frequently these adhesions occur in the shape of thickened bands, situated within and stretching across the neck of the sac. In other cases, they may be found either as fila- mentous bands, or as broad attachments connecting the sac with its contents, and perhaps tying these together. When of a narrow and constricted form, and more particularly when seated in the neck of the sac, or stretching like bridles across its interior, they may readily be divided by a probe-pointed bistoury, or the hernia-knife. If they consist of broad attachments, they may be dissected away, by a little careful manipulation, from the parts in the inside of the sac ; though, if the adhesions be very extensive and of old standing, it may sometimes be more prudent to dissect away that por- tion of the sac which is in connection with them, or even to leave them untouched, and the adherent intestine or omentum unreduced rather than to endeavour to separate them. They may, however, attach themselves in such situations that it becomes necessary to divide them ; thus I have, in a case of congenital hernia, found it necessary to dissect away some very extensive and widely-spread adhesions that had foi’med between the omentum and the testicle, and indeed had almost completely enveloped that organ. Internal Adhesions between the omentum and intestine or mesentery occa- sionally exist, consisting usually of rather firm bands stretching across from one pai’t to the other, sometimes connected with the inner wall of the sac, but in other cases confined to its contents. As these bands may constitute the real stricture, continuing to strangulate the gut after the division of the structures ■ outside and in the neck of the sac, they must necessarily be di^'ided. This operation requires great care, lest the neighbouring intestine be wounded. It is best done by passing a director underneath, and cutting the bands through with a probe-pointed bistomy ; or if this cannot be done on account of their connections, they must be seized with forceps, and carefully dissected off the gut. In a case of large inguinal hernia, containing both gut and omentum, on which I operated some years ago, I found, after dividing the strictm’e, and taking hold of the omentum in order to push back the intestine, that this could not Ix! reduced. On searching for the cause of difficulty, and drawing the mass well down, I found high up, in the part corresponding to the neck of the Siic, a nan’ow band, like a piece of whipcord, stretching across from the omentum to the mesentery and firmly tying down the gut. On dissecting this \ carefully through, the constricted portion of intestine subjacent to it sprang : uj) to its full diameter, and was then veiy readily reduced. Management of Omentum.—The omentum may require to be treated in one of three ways : 1. It maybe returned; 2. It may be left in the ^sac; 3. It maybe cut off. The method of treatment must vary according : to the state in which the omentum is found. If it be small in quantity, ' healthy in character though congested, and apjiarcntly recently protruded, not having undergone those changes that occur in it when it has been a long time in a hernial sac, it should be reduced after the intestine has been put back.