790 HERNIA. condition of the gut 'when reduced, and is often conservative in character. Tims in a case in University College Hospital, in which the patient died six days after the operation from bronchitis and emjdiysema, the part of the intes- tine which had been nipped was found to be firmly adherent to the surrounding’ coils by recent inflammatory exudation. Opposite the seat of stricture was a small slough, about half an inch in diameter, affecting the whole thickness of the coats, ft Avas already partly separated, and had the patient not died from other causes, would probably have been thrown off into the intestine, with- out fa3cal extravasation, owing to the firmness of the surrounding adhesions. The presence of the signs of local peritonitis are of importance only as indi- cating the necessity of avoiding purgatives or even enemata, until they have passed off. The patient must be kept slightly under the influence of opium to maintain rest of the inflamed bowel till all tenderness has disappeared. Acute Catarrhal Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intes- tines, or acute enteritis, occasionally folloAvs the reduction of a hernia, and may prove fatal. In this condition there is profuse diaiThoea, commencing very soon after reduction. The stools are dark-coloured from admixture of blood. At the same time there may be vomiting, the vomited matter also containing black shreds of altered blood. It is never stercoraceous. Unless relief be obtained, collapse soon sets in, the temperature becomes subnormal, the extremities become cold, and death soon follows. The Treatment consists in the administration of morphia in repeated small doses, with the subnitrate of bismuth. No solid food must be allowed. Milk and soda-water, or barley-water, or carefully prepared chicken-broth may be given. Beef-tea is apt to increase the diarrhoea. Brandy is frequently of service, both as a stimulant and in arresting the diarrhoea. Management of Congested Intestine.—The condition in which the contents of the sac are found in a case of hernia, determines greatly the course which the Surgeon should pursue after division of the stricture. Most frequently the intestine is deeply congested, being of a reddish purple, a claret, or chocolate colour. This congested state must not be confounded AA’ith gan- grene of the part—a mistake which might happen if the Surgeon were to content himself with judging of the condition of the bowel by its colour. However dark this may be, the gut cannot be said to be gangrenous so long as it is polished and firm, free from j)utrescent odour, and without a greenish tinge. In cases in which there is much doubt as to whether its vitality continues or not, it has been proposed to scarify its surface lightly Avith the point of a lancet. If blood floAV fi’om the punctures, this may be taken as a proof of the continuance of the vitality of the part. Such a procedure as this, however, is certainly attended by some degree of danger, and can seldom be required. When the intestine is merely congested, however deeply, the rule is, that it should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen in the hope of its ultimately recovering. This it will generally do if it have not been too much handled after the sac has been opened ; but in some cases it will slough a feAv days after it has been reduced, and, the fceces being discharged through the Avound, a ftecal fistula will be formed ; this may happen as late as the eighth or tenth day after the operation. Management of Tightly Constricted Intestine.—hen the intestine has been very tightly nipped by a sharp-edged stricture, so that a deep sulcus