amputation for diffused popliteal aneurism. 253 It must, however, be borne in mind, that the aneurism may become dif- fused, and extensively so, without any very great change in tlic shape and size of the limb. It is only when the sac ruptures in such a position that the blood escapes into the general areolar tissue of the limb or under the skin, that much tension of the integuments and increase in the bulk of the part take ])lace. 4, When a rupture occurs in a part of the sac that is more deeply seated, the blood is extravasiited underneath the deep fascia of the leg, and is bound down bv this ; and disorganization of the interior of the limb may be the result, without much, if any, change in its bulk or in the colour of the integuments, but with excessive deeply seated pain. There must always be considerable risk, in such a case as this, of confounding the arterial disease with a solid tumour ; and the diagnosis can be effected only by reference to the early history of the case, and more particularly to the existence or absence of pulsa- tion at this period. Indeed, the existence or absence of pulsation in these cases is of the utmost importance in reference to the question of treatment. The pulsation may have ceased in a case of diffused popliteal aneurism, in consequence of the blood that has been extravasated being so confined and bound down by the fascia and muscles under which it is effused, that it com- presses the mouth.of the artery leading into the sac, to such an extent as to arrest the passage of blood through it, either wholly or so that it enters in a feeble stream of insufficient force to communicate an impulse to the fluid that has been extravasated into the limb. This pressure may, as in the case of which an illustration has been given (Fig. 447), be confined to the deep parts of the limb, and not give rise to much, if any, general tension of it, the blood being confined below the deep fascia, where it communicates the sensation of a hard, solid, elastic tumour devoid of pulsation. Attention should conse- quently not be too exclusively directed to the state of general tension of the surface of a limb, as this is by no means necessarily an indication of the state of the parts beneath : but the Surgeon should look rather to the presence or absence of pulsation. If pulsation still exist, the blood continues to find its way into the sac, and most probably through it, the tension of the parts not having yet reached its maximum. If there be no pulsation, he may be sure that the entrance of blood into the diffused aneurism has ceased in consequence of compression exercised on the mouth of the artery leading to it, by the tense condition of the suiTounding tissues re-acting on the mass of blood effused Ixjneath them. In such a state of things as this, the vitality of the lower part of the limb can be maintained only by the blood that may find its way through the anastomosing channels ; and this may be sufficient for the purpose if the tension of the limb be not general, the extravasation being confined below the deep fascia. If surgical interference be delayed in such a case as this, the deep fascia will soon give way by over-distension and rupture, and the blood will be infiltrated into the general areolar tissue of the limb ; and then, by coinpress- ing those collateral branches that have hitherto maintained a feeble circulation in it, will infallilily occasion gangrene. If, on the other hand, recourse bo had to ligature of the main artery, the anastomosing circulation, which may have been barely sufficient to keep up a feeble vitality in the leg and foot will be so much interfered with that gangrene of the limb inevitably ensues. The only resource, therefore, that is left in these cases is to amputate at once, in order that the patient may be saved the shock and the constitutional disturb-