1147 NEURALGIA OF THE TE^TIH—TREATMENT. ' / when it lies immediately outside the ring, hut its effect is somewhat doubtful. Any attempt to bring the testicle down into the scrotum would be ineffectual, for in these cases it null be found that, although the vas deferens is usually long and lax, the vessels are too short to allow of any further displacement ol the gland downwards. A testicle in the gi’oiu may, however, be so serious a source of inconvenience, as to call for some operation for its relief. This most commonly arises when it lies in the inguinal canal. In these cases the gland may occasionally be forced into the external ring and partly strangulated, causing intense pain till it is reduced. Under these circumstances, the ring may be closed by suture, as in the radical cure of hernia, or the gland may be removed. The latter is, perhaps, the preferable operation, as being the more certain. '\ATieu the testicle has missed the scrotum and passed into the perinmmn, it may be a great source of pain from the frequent injuries to which it is exposed in sitting. As in these cases the cord is of sufficient length, the testicle may be put into its proper position without great difficulty. It must be dissected out, and left attached by the cord only. An incision is then made into the scrotum,5 the testicle placed in its proper position, and secured by a catgut stitch. The details of the operation must necessarily vary with the abnormal position from which the gland has to be removed. NEUBALGIA OF THE TESTIS. A painful or iiTitable condition of the testicle may occur -without any actual disease of the organ ; the pain being seated either in the epididymis, -which is the part naturally the most tender, in the body of the testis, or stretching along the cord to the loins and groins. It is usually paroxysmal, and is accompanied by great tenderness, and commonly by some fulness of the organ, which feels soft and flaccid ; but it is difficult to make a proper examination, on account of the agony that is induced by touching the part. This disease occurs chiefly in young men of a nervous and excitable temperament, and is frequently associated with great mental disquietude and despondency, often amomiting to a suicidal tendency. • The Causps are obscime ; in many cases the disease appears to be connected with a neuralgic temperament, but in others it is associated with some dyspeptic disorder, or may be dependent upon local irritation ; thus external piles, or the prefssure of a varicocele, will often give rise to it. The disease is usually of a very clu’onic character. In some instances, how- ever, it ceases spontaneously, after having lasted for weeks or months. Treatment.—When the neuralgia is dependent upon constitutional causes, the treatment is extremely unsatisfactory, d'he administration of tonics, such as iron, zinc, or quinine, the local application of sedatives, as of atropine ointment or the tincture of aconite, may be of service. In other cases, cold bathing or douching-will be beneficial ; and, in all, keeping the part supported with a suspensoiy bandage will bo advaiitageous. In the event of there being any local in'itation, that should be removed ; thus I have known the disease to cease after the excision of external piles ; and when it is comiected with varicocele, proper measures must be adopted for the relief of that affection. In extreme cases, »Sir A. Cooper recommends castration; but such a pro- ceeding is altogether unjustifiable in a disease that is either constitutional, or dependent on local causes which are readily removable.