167 INNOMINATE—RESULTIS OF THEAT2IENT. the sac in such a way as to prevent its contraction ? Surely, if the compara- tively small and feeble streams of blood, that pass through the epigastric and circumflex ilii, are sufflcient to interfere with the cure of an inguinal aneurism after the distal ligature of the femoral, the strong current that sweeps through the carotid and tlie large branches springing from the subclavian, with the full force derived from close proximity to the heart, will most probably be sufficient to prevent all lamination in an aneurism of the innominate. That the aiTcst of the circulation through one of these vessels only is not sufficient to influence materially the growth of the aneurism, is evident likewise from what is not im frequently observed after death in cases of this kind—one or other of the vessels being found compressed and obliterated by the pressure of the sac, or plugged by fibrine, and yet no alteration in the tumour resulting. These I cases, which are tolerably numerous, would of themselves have been sufficient to prove that something more than this amount of obstruction is required, in order to effect proper stratiflcation of fibrine in the sac ; and if we turn to the result of the twenty-three cases in which either the carotid or the subclavian has lx?en ligatured, we shall find that in one case only, that operated on by ‘ Evans of Belper, has a cure been effected ; and in this instance how was it ^ • accomplished ? According to the principle on which it was attempted to be established ? Certainly not; but, as will be seen by attention to the details of f the case, and as has already been pointed out with much acuteness by Gruthrie, ) by the accidental setting up of inflammation, which extended to the sac, and thus obliterated it. »In the case (that of Mrs. Denmark) in which Wardrop tied the subclavian I for the cure of aneurism of the brachio-cephalic, there is some reason to doubt whether the arrest of the progress of the tumour was owing to the ligature of the subclavian arteiy, or whether it was not much influenced by the obstruc- J tion which existed in the carotid for nine days after the operation, during which time so abmidant a deposit of laminated fibrine might have occurred as B to an-est the progress of the disease for some length of time. In this case, I also, Guthrie supposes it probable that the inflammation of the tumour might have led to its obliteration. From a careful consideration of all the circumstances of the cases in which ligature of one vessel only, either subclavian or carotid, has been employed for brachio-cephalic aneurism, we are, I think, fully justified in concluding that in sixteen of the cases the fatal result was accelerated, occurring as a consequence of the ligature of the vessel; in three the progress of the disease Avas not materially interfered witli; in two it was arrested, the patients living for twenty months and two years respectively ; in one the result was uncertain, and in one case only the disease was cured. The improvement in two of the cases was the result of accidental circumstances, which Avere unexpected, and unconnected in any Avay Avith the principles on Avhich the operation Avas.under- taken. These results would not, in my opinion, justify any Surgeon in again making an attempt to cure an innominate aneurism by the ligature of either the suljclavian or the carotid artery alone, the patient having been directly killed by the operation in two-thirds of the cases. Of the remaining third, in one-half the patients recovered from the operation, but the disease ran its course as if no such procedure had been adopted ; and in the remaining slender per- centage of cases the improvement that took jdace in tAvo, and tlie cure iu the one .solitary instance, Avere due to accidental circumstances uiicoimected Avith