66i FOBMS OF STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. h t 1 * i' ft; i y ,] >! It> M creditably saAvcd through and detached the sternal end of the clavicle, and thus relieved his patient fi'oni the iinminent danger in which she was placed. 8. Impaction of a Foreign Body in the Gullet.—If a man swallow such a thing as a piece of mutton-bone, or the settings of artificial teeth, it generally lies across the gullet in such a manner as to be easily felt by the Surgeon on passing a probang ; but there are other cases in which a foreign body becomes so lodged in the canal as to escape detection and removal. Some years ago 1 was requested to see a patient who was said to have swallowed a piece of gutta- percha. He had, it appeared, in consequence of having lost several teeth, endeavoured to construct an artificial masticatory apparatus for himself, which had become loose, and he had accidentally swallowed it. A few days after- Avards, finding that deglutition continued difficult, he consulted a very able Surgeon, who carefully examined him ; but, not detecting any foreign body, he considered that the piece of gutta-percha had passed into the stomach, and that the oesophagus luvd been scraped by it in its passage down. Inability to swallow solids came on. I saAv him six months afterwards. The question then was, whether the foreign body Avas still impacted in the oesophagus, or Avhether the symptoms arose from damage inflicted on that tube. I examined the oesophagus most carefully, but failed, as other Surgeons had previously done, to discoA'er the existence of any foreign body. I thought that the oesophagus had been injured in some way, and that probably epithelioma Avas developing, and avouIcI, sooner or later, prove fatal. One day, while at dinner, the patient suddenly vomited a large quantity of blood, and fell doAvn dead. On examination after death, Ave found that the piece of gutta-percha had formed for itself a bed in the Avail of the oesophagus, lying j)arallel with the inside of the tube, and that the ulceration of the mucous membrane caused by its presence had opened some oesophageal vessel—Avhich, Ave could not ascertain (it Avas not, hoAveA^er, either the cai’otid artery or the jugular A'ein)— thus giving rise to the copious and sudden haemoiThage Avhich had caused the patient’s death. The surface of the gutta-percha Avhich looked into the oesophagus, being constantly covered and smoothed over by mucus, and l)eing protected, as it Avere, by a rim of swollen mucous membrane all around it, had alloAved the probang to pass easily Avithout its presence being detected. These, so far as my experience goes, are the eight conditions Avhich are likely to simulate stricture of the oesophagus; and such are the points to be attended to in the diagnosis of these affections from each other. With regard to the diagnosis of stricture, from these conditions, the process is rather a iiegatiA'e than an affinnativc one, proA*ing the absence of tumour, aneurism, &c. The conclusion that the difficulty of deglutition can arise from no other cause than ■stricture is am'ved at by a process of exclusion: and the situation and extent of the stricture are ascertained I)y exploration with a gum-elastic catheter or bougie. Foiof.s OP’ .Stiucture.—There arc three forms of this affection Avhich it is necessary to distinguish from each other, inasmuch as they differ greatly iu the inode of treatment, and in the ultimate result. These arc—1. Hysterical or ■Spasmodic Stricture ; 2. Fibrous Stricture ; vl. Cancerous Stricture. 1. Hysterical or Spasmodic Stricture is met Avith chiefly in young females under tweuty-flA'c, though it may occur iu much older persons of the