577 XECIWSIS OF THE J.l )r,b’. Epithelioma of the Gum is not common. It presents the ordinary characters of epithelial cancer. It is distinguished from myeloid sarcoma by its flat surface, its early ulceration, the everted edge of the ulcer, and its com- paratively sliglit tendency to fuugate. In the later stages the neighbouring lymphatic glands become enlarged. In the lower jaw when the growth penetrates the compact bone, it extends widely in the cancellous tissue. In the upper jaw it may invade the antrum, and completely fill that cavity. The treatment is to remove the growth freely with a considerable portion of the bone on each side of it. In the upper jaAV, if the gi’owth fills the antrum, it may be necessary to remove the whole or a great part of the upper maxilla. Necrosis of the Jaw is commonly the effect of blows, of salivation by mercury, of syphilis, of fever, or of exposure to the fumes of phosphorus. I have, however, seen the disease occur idiopathically in otherwise healthy subjects, without any assignable cause. In this way I have seen the whole of the alveolar process of the upper jaw exfoliate in a young lady, otherwise perfectly healthy ; and I have several times had occasion to remove large portions of the lower jaw—in one case more than half of the bone—for necrosis that could not be referred to any of the causes mentioned above, or indeed to any assignable reason. The disease begins with deeply-seated pain resembling inveterate toothache, which nothing will allay; the gums become swollen; the teeth are loosened, and eventually drop out. Before they do so, however, pus usually wells up through the alveoli. Abscesses form inside the mouth and under the angles of the jaw, having fistulous openings through which bare bone is reached by the probe. The general health suffers greatly, more so than in necrosis generally, doubtless in consequence of the patient swallowing some of the pus from the dead bone. Necrosis of the jaws, arising from the inhalations of the fumes of phosphorus during the manufacture of lucifer matches, first noticed by Lorinser of Yienna has been especially described by Yon Bibra and Geist, who had abundant opportunities of observing the disease at the large manufactories at Nuremberg. This Lucifer match disease was some years ago very frequent, but, in con- se({uence of the adoption of precautionary measures, is now much more rarely met with. It consists in necrosis of the jaws, and is attended by the symptoms above described, but in a more severe degree and an acute form. The affected bone undergoes a remarkable change, assuming the porous aspect and grey colour of dirty pumice stone. Both jaws are equally liable to be affected; but commonly one only at a time is diseased ; the whole of the bone may die and be separated. Thus of 51 cases observed by Yon Bibra, both jaws were affected in five instances only—the upper alone in 21 eases, the lower in 25. According to Langenbeck, the local disease is preceded in many instances by :general symptoms of phosphorus-poisoning; and there is a considerable & amount of bony deposit from periostitis, enclosing the necrosed bone. It has ! l)een believed that workmen having sound teeth are not easily if at all in- 'fluenced by the fumes, and that the phosphorus acts through carious teeth ; r but Langenbeck has observed that the teeth have been sound in cases of the idi.sea.se. The iHagnosia of necrosis of the lower jaw is usually unaccompanied by any : difficulty. In the upper jaw, especially when limited to the palate process, it may resemble epithelioma in the raised and everted edges of the ulcer in the hard palate and the spongy feel communicated to the probe by the dead bone.