JIEUNIA. 782 the apparent reduction tlic o'ut may liavel)ccn merely squeezed from the outei' ])art of the sac into that lying- within the cavity of the a]>domen. 5. second liernia may exist in a state of strangulation, Avhich has escaped detection. The diagnosis of these several conditions may possibly bp made by atten- tion to the following circumstances. In the mhiciion in maun the tuiiKmi- has slipped U]) without any gurgle ; the canal is very open, and no trace of sac can be felt in it, but a rounded tumour, possibly at the upper ]jart, on coughimr. In the case of internal adhesions there will have been, no gurgling, but the canal is still filled by the sac ; the abdominal apertures are not preternaturally })atent and distinct. In the case of extreme nipimiej and consequent inflamma- tion and paralysis of a portion of the gut, gurgling will have been felt and heard in effecting the taxis, which does not happen in either of the other con- ditions, and the symptoms of intestinal obstruction will not be quite complete. The vomiting Mali lose its stercoraceous character, and probably some flatus will pass. An hour-glass sac is met with only in old inguinal hernia, and appears to arise fi-om a partial reduction in mass. Four cases of this kind have occurred in University College Hospital in the last twelve years. In each apparent reduction was easily effected, with slight gurgling. I’lie protrusion readily re-appeared, and was easily ]mt back again. The nature of the case was recognized only after operation perfonned for persistence of symptoms in three cases, and after death in the foiu’th. In the case of the co-existence of a second hernia in a state of strangulation, the cause of the continuance of the symptoms may be ascertained by careful examination of N the abdominal walls. It is especially the co-existence of a small femoral with a large umbilical or inguinal hernia that is apt to be overlooked. This I have seen happen in a very fat person. A man was admitted into University College Hospital Avith strangulated inguinal hernia. It was reduced by the ^ house-surgeon, but the symptoms persisted, and the patient died unrelieved, f there being no indication for operation. After death a very small piece, half a knuckle, of intestine Avas found strangulated in the crmul canal of the same ^ side. The patient being extremely fat, this strangulation was not detected, and could not be recognized during life. The folds of the groin should be , very carefully examined in all these cases. The Treatment of these different conditions is full of difficulty and of , anxiety to the Surgeon. As a general rule, I think that the proper practice in all cases Avhen the symptoms of strangulation, especially stercoraceous vomiting, continue unrelieved and undiminished in severity for some hours after the ap- parent reduction of the hernia, is to cut down upon the canal, expose the sac. and, if that be found still strictured, dmde the constriction in the Avay Avhich Avill shortly be described. Should the hernia not haA'e been reduced “ in mass,’ it might possibly be found that a small knuckle of intestine is still gripped at the inner and deeper ring ; but should that not be the case, it Avill, I think, be safer not to push any exploration into the abdominal cavity Avith the vieAV of discovering the possible existence of unrelieved internal strangulation, the presence of Avhich aa^ouM be highly problematical, and, if existing,^ could scarcely admit of discoA^ery. The safer and Aviser plan uuder such circuiu- stances appears to be, to leaA'e the wound open, Avith a light dressing over it, and to give the patient the chance of the formation of an artificial anus on the sloughing of the strangulated or badly nipped knuckle of intestine ; a I’csnlt