i82 ISPEGTAL ANEURISMS. pharyngeal aspect is that which, if one may so term it, is the most sii])erficial, and that between it and the surface the smallest amonnt of soft parts inter- venes—nothing lying between the vessel and the mucous membrane except the thin paper-like constrictor, some lax areolar tissue, and the superior laryngeal nerve ; whilst externally there are interposed between it and the integument the layers of the cervical fascia, the margin of the sternomastoid, the digastric stylo-hyoid and stylo-pharyngcus, and the styloid process, and above the digastric the parotid gland. AVhen, therefore, dilatation of the vessel takes place, it necessarily has a tendency to push forwards that part of its covering where it meets with least resistance ; and, this being to the pharyngeal side, more or less prominence will consequently be found in this cavity. In a case that occurred to 8yme, this was especially well marked, the aneurism of the internal carotid simulating closely an abscess of the tonsil. In two cases related by Porter in the seven- teenth volume of the Duhlin Journal of Medical Science, this was one of the most marked features : the “ appearances of the tumour (as seen by the mouth) were most alarming; the pulsation could be distinctly seen, and the blood almost felt under the mucous membrane; it seemed ready to give way and burst into the mouth every moment.” Treatment.—The treatment of these cases does not differ from that of aneurisms connected with the carotid arteries, and seated at the upper part of the neck; but we are not in possession of a sufficient number of facts to enable us to determine with any degree of precision what the result of surgical inter- ference in them is likely to be. If we could give an opinion from the limited number of cases at present before the profession, we should feel disposed not to entertain a very favourable opinion of the result of the Hunterian operation, as applied to aneurism of the internal carotid outside the skull. This is doubtless owing to the situation of the aneurism against the mucous membrane of the mouth, being such that the surrounding tissues do not exercise a suffi- cient amount of pressure against the sac after the ligatime of the vessel to allow the efficient deposition of lamellated coagulum, and consequent occlusion of the artery leading into it, which, in accordance with the principles that have been laid down in speaking of the Hunterian operation, are necessaiy to success. INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. Aneurisms within the skull may arise from any of the arteries that are met with in this situation, though some are much more liable than othei’S to the occurrence of this disease. Of 62 cases noted by Sir ^Y. Gull, the basilar artery was the seat of disease in 20 cases, and the middle cerebral in 15. In 8 of the remaining cases, the internal carotid was affected as it lay by the sella Turcica; and in 6 others the anterior cerebral artery was the seat of aneurism. The vertebral arteries and their branches were affected in 28 cases, and the carotids and their branches in 34. Causes.—The causes of intracranial aneurism are very obscure. It might be supposed that the comparatively small diameter of the arteries within the skull would render them little liable to the occurrence of spontaneous aneurism, were it not that the anatomical characters and physiological relations of these vessels predispose considerably to the occurrence of this affection ; there being I! t