JIERNIA. 762 Itassed into a distinct sac, in some instances the cystoccle is accompanied hv an entoroccle. This hernia is always irreducible, is attended by a good deal of difficulty in urinating, with vaiying tension, according to the quantity oi fluid contained ; by squeezing it, urine may be forced out through the urethra, and fluctuation has been telt in. it. Urinary calculi have been formed in the tumour, and have been removed l>y incision through the scrotum, oi' liave ulcerated out. Causes.—The causes of hernia arc usually sufficiently well marked. In some instances the disease is congenital, arising from preteniatural patency of the abdominal apertures ; in other cases, it occurs at a later period of life, in con- sequence of some forcihle effort, as lifting a heavy weight, jumping, coughing, straining at stool, or passing urine through a tight stricture. Such causes as these act especially in tall and delicate people, particularly in those who have a natural disposition to weakness or bulging of the groins. The displacement of the abdominal viscera by a gravid, uterus, will also occasionally give rise to the disease. Hernia frequently results fi’om a combination of causes : thus, if an aged person of feeble build, or whose abdominal apertures are patent in consequence of rather sudden emaciation, make a violent effort, a hernial pro- trusion is very apt to occur. Amongst the most frequent Predisposing Causes of hernia, are certainly sex, age, and occupation. Sex.—Men are more liable to this disease than women, in the proportion of about 4 or 5 to 1. Thus, according to Malgaigne, in France, one man in thirteen and one woman in fifty-two are the subjects of hernia. But, though men are more generally liable to hernia than women, they are less so to certain forms of the disease, especially to the femoral and umbilical. It is to the inguinal that they are particularly subject. According to Lavi'ence, out of 83,584 patients who applied to the City of London Truss Society, 07,798 were males and 15,786 females. Of 43,214 applicants at the same institution during the eight years 1800-1807, 30,101 were males and 7,053 females. Of these, 34,788 males, and 3,085 females had inguinal hernia ; 1,373 males, and 3,96K females had femoral hernia. Age exercises a very material influence upon the frequency of hernia. Mal- gaigne, who has carefully investigated this subject, finds that in infancy the disease is sufficiently common, owing to the prevalence of congenital inguinal and umbilical hernise at this period of life ; and that, in the first year after birth, hernia occurs in the proportion of 1 in every 21 children. It then goes on decreasing in frequency, there being 1 in 29 at the second year ; 1 in 3< at the third year ; until, at the thirteenth year, it has fallen to 1 in 77. Shortly after this, its frequency begins to rise again, and then goes on pro- gressively increasing until the close of life ; thus, at the 21st year, there is 1 case in 32 ; at the 28th year, 1 in 21 ; at the 35th, 1 in 17 ; at the 4oth, 1 in 9 ; at 50, 1 in 6 ; from 60 to 70, 1 in 4 ; and from 70 to 75, 1 in 3. In women, according to Malgaigne, hernia most frequently occurs from the 20th to the 50th years.* Malgaigiie’s figures give the ages of the patients when they came under his observation. Kingdon has investigated the question of the ages at which the hernia commenced. He states that out of 9,290 cases. w Ol' Those interesttMj in the stntistics of Hernia will find ninch information in .an ehO^^^^^^ ernher, of (aessen, in Vol. XI. of I>jin«enheck's “ ,\i chiv fUr KlimseUe Chirurgiu (ISO.*), and m Kej.orU I’rovost-Murshal General’s Hni'ean, United States Arnij', 187<>.”