465 EXCISION OF HIP—MODES OF OPERATING. the trochanter and upper end of the femur with "reat accuracy. The patient is • then placed on the sound side. If the disease be femoral, the gluteal region per- forated wdth sinuses, and the soft parts thinned, the head of the bone lying dislo- cated on the doi’sum illii, it suffices to pass a director down one of the chief • sinuses leading to the carious bone, and to slit this up. If, however, the bone be more thickly covered, and be not easily reached with the probe, and if the . sinuses open on the thigh at some considerable distance from the seat of disease, then a "f-shaped incision should be made over the upper end of the thigh-bone, so as to expose it (Fig. 590). The limb should now be adducted, rotated inwards, and pushed upwards by an assistant, and the soft structures ‘ separated by a probe-pointed knife from around the upper end of the bone, so that the whole amount of disease may come into view. Tlie upper end of the Fig. 590.—Excision in Femoral Coxalgia. Fig.5S9.—Resiiltof Excision for Extensive Acetabular Coxalgia, three years ijfter Operation. femur is then cut off with a saw, the soft parts around being protected, if necessary, by means of retractors. There is one practical question with regard to the amount of the upper end of the thigh-bone to be removed, which requires consideration ; and that is, Should the bone be sawn through below the great trochanter, or through the neck only, leaving the trochanter ? The practice should, I think, differ according to the nature of the disease. If. this be femoral, it is best to take away the great-trochanter, as the caries has generally reached its cancellous stnicture, or it may be infiltrated with tubercle. Hut if the disease be aceta- bular, and the jielvic bones be the parts most extensively and deeply affected, it will suffice to remove the head only, leaving the trochanter, which is not affected in these cases. After removing the head of the bone, the upper cud VOI,. II. „ „