173 LIGATURE OF THE COMMON CAROTID. Iiig^ature.— Since the time when Sir A. Cooper first li^jitiired the carotid, in 1805, the means on which the Surgeon almost always relies for the cure of aneurism of this vessel is dcligation of the artery at a distance from the sac. When the aneurism is so situated that a sufHcient extent of healthy vessel exists between the sternum and the base of the tumour to admit of the applica- tion of a ligature, the Hunterian operation may he practised. If, however, the root or lower portion of the artery be so involved that there is no room to applv the ligature between the heart and the seat of the disease, the distal operation may be performed. Ligature of the Carotid.—The patient must be placed upon his back with the shoulders supported by a pillow, and the head allowed to fall back- wards so as to put the sterno-mastpid slightly on the stretch. In the later stages of the operation, the head must be brought a little more forwards to allow the muscle to be drawn outwards. If brought too much forwards the arter}' becomes relaxed, and the difficulty in passing the needle is increased. When the Surgeon can choose the seat at which to ligature the artery, he usually selects the part of the vessel which bisects the angle formed by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid with the omo-hyoid muscle at the level of the cricoid caifilage. The course of the arteiy is marked by a line draAvn from the sterno-cla-vdcular articulation to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw. The practical guiding line during the operation is the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, which forms the first rallying point. The artery is reached by making an incision about three inches in length in this line, the middle of the wound being opposite the cricoid cartilage. After dividing the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma, with the brandies of the superficial cervical nerve, and the deep cervical fascia, the fibres of the sterno-mastoid come into view ; the inner border is easily found, and the muscle turned outwards. The second rallying point is the upper border of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. To bring this into dew, the layer of cervical fascia forming the posterior part of the sheath of the stenio-mastoid must be dissected through, taking care not to wound the descendens noni nerve which usually lies immediately beneath it. When the muscle is found, its upper border is pushed downwards with the handle of the scalpel, and held out of the way with a blunt hook, and the sheath of the ves.sels then comes into view. The Sm’geon now presses his finger backwards towards the bodies and transverse processes of the cervical vertebrm, and the artery ivill be felt rolling under the finger over the bone, and its exact position is thus easily ascertained. The vessel is enclosed in a sheath of cervical fascia common to it, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve. This sheath is divided into three compartments by distinct fibrous septa, and it is important to open the most internal of these, in which the artery lies, if p(jssible without disturbing the others. To do this, the common sheath must lx; opened well to the tracheal side, as the compartment for the vein is much larger than that for the artery, and occupies the greater part of the anterior suspect of the sheath which is exposed in the operation. xVfter opening the common shesith, the special sheath of areolar tissue surrounding the artery must he carefully divided until the white extermil coat comes into view. The needle is then passed from without inwsirds (Fig. 471), between the sp<icial shesith and the external coat, through the loose sireohir tissue naturally found in this sitimtion. If the vessel be properly clesmcd, it is almost im-