DEFORMITIES. 498 The muscle itself is seldom the seat of the primary lesion. G. V. Poore has pointed out that a single muscle or group of muscles may be weakened, and their contractility in response to electricity impaired by excessive use without sufficient intervals of rest. This is often accompanied by. spasm of the oppo- nent muscles, sometimes tonic, but more often clonic, and thus deformity may result. This is not however a common cause of actual deformity. The conductivity of a motor nerve is frequently abolished by wound, injury, pressure of tumour, exposure to cold, or neui-itis from other causes. A good ' example of the effects of lesion of a motor nerve in producing deformity may 1 be seen in the peculiar condition of the hand and foreann, described at p. -073, Vol. I., as resulting from paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve in certain fractures of the humerus. In paralysis of the facial neiwe from cold the face ^ is distorted by being drawn to the sound side. Internal squint may result from paralysis of the sixth nerve from pressure upon it as it enters the orbit, the external rectus losing its power and the eye being drawn inwards by the action of its antagonist, the internal rectus. Disease of the central nervous system, more especially of the spinal cord, is a frequent cause of deformity, which is very common in infancy and early child- hood, as a consequence of Infantile Paralysis. This disease is now known to i be due to inflammation of the anterior grey cornua of the cord. At first i there is extensive paralysis, which gradually clears up as the acute stage passes off, often leaving merely a single gToup of muscles permanently para- lysed, as for instance, the tibialis anticus, and the extensors of the toes. As the result of this the foot becomes extended by the unopposed muscles of the ; calf, and one form of acquired club-foot is produced. Little has made the n important observation that many cases of deformity in infants appear to be c due to mischief inflicted on the base of the brain during protracted and •) instrumental labours. Another example of defonnity from disease of the central nervous system is the club-foot and occasionally club-hand also, met with in cases of encephalo- cele or spina bifida. (c.) Spasm of a muscle or group of muscles also may give rise to deformity, | the opponent muscles remaining perfect in their contractility, but being over- i balanced by the continued contraction of their antagonists. Spasm may be the result of direct irritation of the central nervous system, .r This would appear to be the case in some forms of squint. It may also be 1 reflex, resulting from some peripheral irritation. This we commonly see happen j ( in cases of contraction occurring from the cutting of teeth, the irritation of j ( worms in the intestinal canal, in the so-called hysterical contractions from j i uterine irritation, &c. From aU these various causes, contraction and con- ' £ sequent deformity may arise. In some cases deformity will cease after ; ; removal of the cause ; but in other instances, in which it has been of long ' v duration, the deformity will continue, owing to the muscles havmg fallen into s a kind of rigid atrophy, being shortened and wasted. 4. When deformity has arisen the lower extremity as a consequence of any n of the above conditions, it becomes gi’eatly aggravated by the weight of ilm 'i hotly acting on the deformed limb. This we see especially marked in old f club-feet. ; Treatment.—The General Treatment of deformity consists in removing ;?i the cause of the contraction in those cases in which it is dependent oii central U