968 UlUiVARY CALCULUS A^VD LITHOTOMY. until the completion of the. operation, lest the li<;atnre he pulled off during the extraction of the stone. 2. d'he Division of the Deop Arteries of the perinmum, that of the ljulb and the internal pndic, would he attended by far more serious, ])crhaps even hv fatal consequences ; as, from the dc])th at which the vessels are seated, it would be ahuost impossible to> apply a li«-ature to them, unless the patient were very thin, and the perintcum proportionately shallow. The facility of ligaturing- any of these arteries, especially that of the bulb, when wounded, is greatly increased by enlarging the incision upwards. In the event of a ligature not being applicable, the Surgeon would have to trust to j)lugging tlie wound round the tube, as described further on, or to the pressure of un assistant’s fingers continued for a considerable time, or to the ap|>lication of forcipressure forceps. The pressure of the fingers of relays of assistants, kept up for a considerable length of time, although it seems to have been an efficient mode of treatment, is painful to the patient, and is difficult to carry out. The pressure must be kept up for many hours ; thus South relates a case in which it was maintained for fourteen hoiu’s ; and Brodie one in which, after twenty-four hours, it succeeded. The assistants should not be changed more frequently than necessary, each keeping up pressure for two or three hours, and removing his fingers as cautiously as possible. It is, doubtless, very rare for these arteries to be wounded when they follow their usual course ; though such accidents have happened in the hands of some of the most skilfid lithotomists, such as Home, Bell, Eoux, and Desault. It was the opinion of Aston Key that the artery of the bulb was generally cut during lithotomy ; but iii this he was mistaken, so far as its trunk is concerned, though doubtless in many cases the bulb itself may be wounded, and the mesh of twigs, in which the vessel terminates, divided ; this, however, would not yield an alarming haemorrhage. The trunk of the artery of the bulb would, however, be en- dangered by opening the urethra too high up, and lateralizing the knife toi> early, and if Avounded bleeds A^ery freely. It may happen that on pulling the wound widely open the bleeding point may be seen, but at such a depth that it is impossible to apply a ligature. It may then be seized in torsion or forcipressure forceps and immediately tAvisted, or if this does not succeed the forceps may be left hanging on the vessel for a few hours. For this purpose the forcipressure forceps are the best, as they more efficiently crush and obliterate the vessel. The internal pudic artery, bound doA\m by a strong fascia, and under coA^r of the ramus of the ischium, runs but little risk unless the knife be lateralized too much, and the incision be carried too far outAA'ards. In children in Avhoin the ramus of the ischium is to a great extent cartilaginous, this accident could more easily happen. It is in some of the anomalous distributions of these vessels that the greatest danger would be occasioned. The artery of the bulb, the inferior hmmorrhoidal, the dorsal artery of the penis, or the internal pudic. may take such an anomalous course that their division is ineA'itable ; ami. as the Surgeon has no possible means of knoAving beforehand Avhethcr the distribution of the arteries is regidar or not, and as his incisions arc all planned on the supposition that they arc, he is not to blame in the eA*ent of a vessel being accidentally divided, Avhen it takes an abnormal direction, Avith AA’hich it is impossible to be acquainted until after the accident has occurred. If the incision be commenced too high up, and esjK'cially if the upper part