215 RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN, pain in the chest, which was particularly severe at the base of the right Inng, and extended np towards the axilla, llespiration throughout the right lung was bronchial, and there was duluess on percussion over the lower ribs; the aneurismal tumour had suddenly disappeared at the time of the attack. On the 18th, the patient experienced a sensation as if a fluid were passing from the pleural cavity into that of the aneurismal tumour ; and, upon auscultating, a splashing sound was heard at every inspiration, the noise resem- bling that produced by shaking water in a closed vessel. On the 20th, he died. Upon dissection, the aneurism was found to communicate by an aper- ture, one inch and three-quarters in length and an inch and a half in width, with the pleural cavity; this opening was situated between the first and second ribs, and was obviously the result of ulceration and absorption, caused by the I pressure of the tumoiu-. Both ribs were denuded of their periosteum. The right side of the chest contained nearly three quarts of bloody serum, inter- ' mixed with laminated clots and flakes of lymph ; the former of which had evidently been lodged originally in the aneui'ismal sac. Besides these cases, a somewhat similar one has been recorded by Neret, of ; Xancy. A patient was admitted into the hospital, suflering from brnmoptysis, j and on examination Avas found to have an auein’ism of the left subclavian j artery as large as a chestnut. He died shortly after admission; and, on exami- nation, the anemism was found to communicate Avith a large cavity in the j upper part of the lung. The cause of death in Gross’s case was probably the fact of the sac opening I and discharging its contents into the pleural cavity. This does not ajDpear to ! have occurred in Bullen’s, in which a communication was established directly I with the lung, the contents of the abscess finding exit through the air-tubes. I The process here was analogous to what occasionally occurs in hepatic abscess when this opens through the lungs, adhesion having previously taken place betAveen the opposed surfaces of the plema. In Furner’s case of axillary aneurism, both arteries became alfected by the : disease, and both subclaAdaus Avere tied in the third part of their course at an I interA'al of about fifteen months. In this most remarkable and interesting case, the result of which reflects much credit on the skill and decision of the operator, the patient, a stone-mason by trade, made an excellent recovery from the first ; operation. After the second operation he progressed most favourably for I tAveh'e weeks, Ijy Avhich time the tumour had diminished so much as to be not j more than a third of its original size. Without obvious reason febrile dis- I turbance set in, the tumour enlarged again, and shoAAnd signs of suppurating. ! Fumer noAv made a free incision into it through the pectoral muscle, and let ' out 18 or 20 ounces of veiy offensive pus and broken-doAAn coagulum. The patient speedily recovered, the tumour disappearing entirely. The principal danger, and the most frequent cause of death after the suppu- ration of the sac, is the supervention of profuse arterial hemorrhage. 'This may occur either from the distal extremity of the artery opening into the sac, or from one of the large branches Avhich serve to support the collateral ciinula- tion round the shoulder, such as the subscapular or posterior circumflex, coming off either immediately aboA’e or beloAV the sac, or from the sac itself. AVhen hfcmorrhage does not take place after suppuration of the sac, it must be from the fortunate circumstance of the occlusion of the main trunk, Avhere it opeus into the tumour. It can scarcely be from the occlusion of the principal