13 CANCERS—SARCOMATA. Secondary Cancer of tlie Skin nifiy firisc from direct extension from a primary gTowth or from a secondary glandular tumour. The most marked examples are commonly met with in cancer of the breast. In this disease, after the primaiy tumour has reached the surface, numerous smooth, elevated tubercles of a dusky red or brownish colour, may appear dotted in the skin for many inches around the part first implicated. Each of these is a small scin-hous cancer identical in structure with the primary growth in the mam- maiy gland. In other cases, fortunately rare, the skin covering the side of the chest is widely infiltrated by the malignant growth. It becomes smooth, of a brovmish- red colour, and hard and rigid, like a piece of leather, from which it has received the name of the cancerous cuirass. Sarcomata of the Skin.—Yarious forms of sarcoma are met with in the skin. Spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma are seen here as in all other fibrous structures. Two forms, however, show a special predilection for the skin—the melanotic, and the alveolar. Melanotic sarco^na often commences in some pigmented spot, such as a mole. It forms a rounded tumour, smooth on the surface, and dark brown or black in colour. It is intensely malignant, and however early it may be removed, it is very apt to return both loeally and in internal organs. If not removed it gradually increases and at last ulcerates, but before this takes place it often reaches a considerable size. I have met with two instances of late of this disease, one on the foot, the other on the hand, of ladies both above seventy years of age. Some time after removal in both cases, brownish black patches looking like stains Avith Indian ink appeared on the skin in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix. These gradually developed into new tumours. In one case hundreds of these formed up the leg, varying in size from a pea to a filbert. They slowly ulcerated and life was destroyed, probably by secondary growth in the viscera, after a period of about four years fr’om the primary manifestation of the disease. Alveolar Sarcoma of the skin is rare. Its structure and general character have been already described (p. 1003, Yol. I.). It is probably this tumour that was described by Scarpa as the “ scirrhous wart,” as from its hardness and the local and general malignancy it usually manifests, it closely resembles scirrhous cancer. The treatment of a malignant tumour of the skin, whether a cancer or a sarcoma, consists in its excision or in amputation of the limb affected. Its removal by excision should be effected as soon as its true characters have declared themselves : provided it be of such a size, and so situated, that it can be freely removed with a sufficient stratum of subjacent healthy parts, and a wide border of surrounding skin. Should it be so situated that its excision through surrounding healthy tissue is not practicable, the limb must be' ampu- tated, as Avas done in the case depicted in Fig. 420. In such circumstances the limb may be removed at no great distance aboAn the disease ; it not being necessjiry, as in ctises of cancer of the extremities in AAdiich the bones are affected, to allow a joint to intervene betAveen the seat of operation and the malignant groAvth. Simple Tumours of the Skin.— Pibroma.—Circumscribed fibrous tumours are occasionally met Avith in the skin, but are not common.