4 II 2 1 i ^ PERFORMANCE OF OVARIOTOMY—AFTER-TREATMENT, 1203 'i of bleeding- vessels ; tlie latter, if extensive, may require to be laced by a line « continuous suture involving only the peritoneal coat of the intestine. The peritoneal caA’ity should now be thoroughly and systematically sponged out, care being especially directed to the uterine pouches, and to the iliac and i| lumbar regions. The pedicle is again examined to make certain that all is j| left secure ; the forceps holding it are removed, and it is dropped in. A ir small flat sponge is then introduced for the purpose of protecting the intestines II during the insertion of the sutures, for which no better material can be j| employed than fine silk, passed at intervals of about half an inch. To ensure II a siitisfactory cicatrix, each stitch should include the edges of the sheath of II the rectus muscles, in addition, of course, to the peritoneum, which is the most I important layer of any in the wall. Before closing, all sponges and forceps I are carefully counted to make sure that none are missing. I Should drainage be deemed advisable, a glass tube of the required length is || introduced to the bottom of Douglas’s pouch from the lower end of the i| abdominal incision, a sutui-e thi-ead being left untied at the point of insertion, I so as to permit of subsequent closure of the opening. The use of a small I rubber sheet, perforated in the centre so as to fit closely round the neck of I the tube, will greatly facilitate the after-management. I Finally a dry dressing, preferably of carbolic gauze, is applied and kept in I place by broad straps of adhesive plaster, over which a flannel binder is I fastened securely round the patient’s abdomen before placing her in bed. I After-Treatment.—On recovery from the ansesthetic, an opiate should at I once be administered, either in the form of a hypodermic injection of morphia; or perhaps more conveniently as the ordinary Liq. Opii, of which twenty drops may be given by the bowel, and repeated as required, usually once in every six hours, for the first three or four days. Should sickness be trouble- some, nothing need be given by the mouth for the first twenty-four or thirty- six hours beyond a little ice, plain soda-water, or brandy and water; after which milk and water may be tried, to be succeeded, if retained, by plain bread and milk. In the meantime nutrient injections of beef-tea with or without the addition of a tablespoonful of port wine, administered every three or four hours, will probably be of sendee ; the nurse being directed to introduce a rectal tube before each injection in order to fricilitate the escape of flatus. The urine should be drawn off by the catheter four times daily for the first few days, or until the patient be able to pass it naturally. If all be doing well, ordinary light diet, such as milk-pudding, fish or chicken, may be allowed on the third or fourth day. Should there be much fever at any time, the application of an ice bladder to the head will soothe and tranquillize the patient, and promote reduction of the temperature. As a rule the bowels may be left undistiirlKjd until they show some inclination to act, when they may be assisted by an enema. Finally the stitches should be removed on the seventh or eighth day, and the patient may be allowed to leave her bed at the end of the second week, wearing a suitable abdominal belt. After recovery from ovariotomy, the cure is usually comjilete. Hernia of the Ovary.—It may happen th.it the ovary, on one or both sides, becomes displficed, and cscajies from the jiclvis through one of the openings which give passage to intestinal hernia. In three-fourths of the recorded cases ftwenty-seven out of thirty-eight, according to Knglisch of