1122 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. It will be seen that there are two distinct classes of perineal abscesses ; those that communicate with the urethra, and those that do not. The former usually end in urinary fistula, the latter do not. The Characters of a perineal abscess are those of a hard, rounded, elongated or oviform mass, situated in front of the anus, extending along the urethra, or perhaps occupying to some extent one side of the perinmum. Fluctuation is not to be felt so long as it is bound down by the superficial fascia ; when it bursts beyond its limits, then that sign may be met with. But so long as it is under the fascia the abscess will be found to be surrounded by so dense a mass of indurated tissue, and so tightly bound down, that fluctuation, or even elasticity, is not appreciable by the most practised finger. Treatment.—The usual routine treatment of local sedatives, fomentations, and poultices, are of no avail in these cases. When once pus has formed in this situation it must be freely evacuated. I^o good can possibly come of delay, and every possible harm may result from the infiltration of pus among the important tissues of this region. The Surgeon must not wait for fluctuation, but when once the hard mass has fully formed must make a free incision into it. For this purpose he must keep in the mesial line, or as close to it as possible ; for in all perineal incisions “ medio tutissimus ” must be his motto. Urinary Fistulse commonly form in the perinseum and scrotum, as the result of abscess in these regions communicating with the urethra ; occasion- ally, however, they are met with in other situations, as in the groin, the anterior abdominal wall, or the inside of the thigh. They usually communi- cate with the membranous portion of the urethra, but occasionally occur anterior to this. In number they vary considerably ; when occurring in the scrotal and penile portions of the urethra, they are usually single ; but when in the perinseum, they are often rather numerous, several apertures being occasionally met with about the perinseum, scrotum, and nates. In one case Civiale found as many as fifty-two. Their size also differs considerably ; some admitting only the finest probe, whilst others are large cloacae. In a case under my care, the patient had a tunnel of this kind in the groin that would readily admit three fingers. They are usually tortuous, elongated, and naiTOw; sometimes constricted externally and more widely dilated behind. The surrounding parts are gveatly condensed ; the whole of the scrotum and penis is enormously enlarged, indurated, and almost cartilaginous in structure. The urine may escape almost entirely through the fistulge, scarcely any being discharged through the urethral orifice; or there may be but a slight exudation from the fistulous openings. The Treatment of urinary fistula varies according as it is complicated with stricture, and as it is situated in the anterior or the posterior part of the canal. If there be a stricture, this, as the cause of the fistula, will require removal either by dilatation or by the perineal section. If the stricture be not very tight and hard, dilatation commonly succeeds ; the instrument being intro- duced every second or third day, until the urethra is dilated to its normal size, when the fistulous tracks will in most cases close. In some instances, however, the frequent introduction and withdrawal of the catlieter is a source of irritation, and then it had better be left in. When this practice is adopted, a moderate-sized elastic catheter should be used. If this be too small, the urine will flow between it and the sides of the urethra, and thus escape