904 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. of urine was valvular in nature, so that increased force applied to the contents of the bladder could only shut the valve more closely ; and over-distension with such an amount of stretching of the neck as to render the valve incom- petent, Avas the only means by which urine could he pa.ssed without artificial aid. This last condition is peculiar to prostatic disease, and some cases of tumour of the bladder. In all cases of great hypertrophy of the muscular walls of the bladder, the bundles of fibres form ridges on the surface, giving rise to the condition known as fasciculation. In many cases in which great pressure lias frequently existed in the bladder, cither from the forcible contraction of its hypertrophied Avails on the contained urine, or from simple over-distension from retention arising from a valvular obstruction in the prostate, the mucous membrane becomes thrust betAveen the bundles of muscular fibres, so forming pouches called sacmlL These sacculi are most frequent in the posterior part of the bladder, and, in most cases, their Avails are composed merely of mucous membrane and peritoneum. Sometimes, hoAvever, a layer of muscular fibres is also found. These sacculi form pouches in Avhich putrid urine accumulates, and frequently gives rise to inflammation of the mucous membrane, sometimes ending in ulceration, and possibly perforation of the bladder. Much more often it gives rise to attacks of local peritonitis, and portions of intestine may so become adherent to the bladder. The causes which give rise to an increased demand for force in expulsion of the urine, and consequently to hypertrophy of the bladder, are A-arious. The most common is perhaps obstruction in the urethra from stricture. In some cases it may arise from an irregular enlargement of the prostate in which the obstruction is not valvular in character. Villous groAvth and other tumours of the bladder may call for increased force, from partially obstructing the orifice of the urethra. Chronic cystitis, from the alteration it produces in the cha- racter of the urine, always causes more or less hypertrophy. Stone in the' bladder causes obstruction to the floAV of urine, partly mechanically and partly by the chronic cystitis to which it usually giA^es rise. The thick ropy mucus of chronic cystitis undoubtedly offers very considerable obstruction to the floAV of urine. All these causes, therefore, may giA^e rise to more or less hypertrophy. There is no evidence that mere frequency of action plays any important part in the production of hypertrophy. In the few recorded cases in which there Avas great frequency of micturition with healthy urine in cases of calculous pyelitis, no mention is made of any marked hypertrophy. There is every reason to believe that hypertrophy of the bladder plays a very important part in the production of kidney-disease. In no case, as the result of obstruction to the exit of urine from the bladder, do we find the ' valves of the ureters incompetent. In the simple dilatation from valvular obstruction in the prostate, they are closed more firmly than natural. Xo ; regurgitation takes place, but of course the pressure in the ureters and kidneys ■ will be increased, while the bladder is over-distended. In hypertrophy of the walls, Ave find also a certain amount of obstruction to the entrance of urine : into the bladder, as the ureter has to pass obliquely through the thickened : AAull, and is doubtless often pressed on by thickened bands of fibres. The swelling of the mucous membrane at the orifice of the ureter in an inflamed bladder probably adds to this obstruction. Here then, although there may be no over-distension of the bladder, there is increased pressure in the ureters and kidneys, the force of secretion remaining unaltered while obstruction to the