2o6 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. taneoiis cure, or been consolidated l)y constitutional treatment. Compression or ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course is the only means of cure. Axillary aneurisms are favourably situated for the employment of (lujiial compressio7i. By this means the subclavian can easily be coinmanded as it passes over the first rib. And the success of this treatment is likely to l>e great; first, because, the sac being usually large, a considerable rpiantity of the contained blood is well out of the current of the circulation, readily stagnates, and may thus easily coagulate ; and secondly, because the current of Ijlood through the sac is proportionately small, and thus, if coagulation once begin, may easily be completely arrested. Digital compression, therefore, in my opinion, should always be had recourse to in the first instance. By this means, aided by rest and constitutional treatment, the progress of the tumour may be stayed, and possibly a consolidation of its contents and cure be effected. This occurred at University College Hospital in a patient seventy-one years of age, in whom an axillary aneurism as large as a shaddock and of an actiA'ely progressing character was cured by intermittent digital pressure continued at intervals for between two and three weeks, during which time compression was kept up in all about twenty-three hours, the consolidation commencing on the third day of treatment after seven hours of pressure had been tried. Holmes mentions eight cases in which digital compression has been tried. Three of these, under the care of Ciniselli and Dutoit, and another Surgeon whose name is not mentioned, were of traumatic origin, and of these two were cured. The remaining five were idiopathic. Three of these, under Cooper Forster, Peatson, and Rizzoli, were cm-ed. Two, under Turet and Vanzetti, failed. In Cooper Forster’s case the compression was applied twice under chloroform ; on one occasion for three and a quarter hours and on the other for eight hours. In Peatson’s case the pressure was applied at intervals for a period of nearly three months. In Rizzoli’s case the treatment lasted even longer, the cure not being complete for nearly six months. In this case the artery was so dilated and diseased that ligature was impossible. In Dutoit’s case the compression was applied for six hours a day for six days. Lund has also recorded a case cured by digital compression in two periods, the first of ten and the second of seven and half hours. In another case under the care of S. Jones, compression was combined with the application of Esmarch’s bandage to the arm, but without success. Compression by instruments on the cardiac side can seldom be made ap- plicable to aneurisms in this situation ; inasmuch as the pressure that is brought to bear upon the subclavian must necessarily at the same time influence the greater part of the brachial plexus of neiwes to such an extent as to be unendurable by the patient. Yet it is not impracticable, and means might be devised to overcome this difficulty. IJgature of the artery is, however, still the Surgeon’s chief resource in the treatment of these cases. The part of the vessel universally selected for the application of the ligature is, in accordance with the Hunterian doctrines, that which lies on the first rih beyond the scalenus anticus muscle ; this part presenting the advantages of being sufficiently removed from the seat of disease to ensure the probability of the coats of the artery being in a sound state, of being by far the most accessible, and, when deligatcd, of allowing the collateral circulation by which the vitality of the arm is to be maintained to remain un- I I A ■ i» i '.■»A id .'■7 4 Mr; n’ •C'l :£•' F.r