1040 DJSKASE.'^ OF THE IlLADDFR. time, tliere is not imfreqneiitly a tendency to the drihhliii'i- away of’ a few drops towards tlic end of the emission of urine, aiid after its apparent cess{i- tion. The patient feels a desire to ]>ass watei- more fretpiently than usual lie cannot retain his water for more than an Jionr or two—is often distur])C(] during’ the night, and if he does not at once obey the impulse, is aj)t to wet his clothes, ddiis frequent desire to jiass water is due to the bladder never emptying itself, a certain quantity—several ounces—of residual urine hein«- left behind ; by the addition of a small quantity the bladder becomes overloaded, and the desire to micturate is felt. Temporary relief is afforded but as secretion continues the bladder soon fills up again, and so the process goes on. When complete retention occurs, whether this take place gradu- ally or suddenly, the bladder slowly enlarges, rising out of the pelvis into the abdomen, stretching up into the hypogastric region, reaching even as high as the umbilicus. On examining the lower part of the abdomen, the organ will be felt hard, elastic, rounded, and jiyriform in sha]m, projecting above the pubes, and feeling much like an enlarged uterus. In this situation, also, percussion will elicit a dull sound; and on exploring the jjart through the rectum, the bladder will be found to project in this direction also; and on tapping with the fingers abo\'e the pubes, fluctuation may be felt through the wall of the gut. The distension of the bladder is sometimes so very gradual and slow, that the over-distended organ has been mistaken for an abdominal tumour. No pain and but little inconvenience is felt; the urine dribbles away ; but at the end of two or three months the over-distended bladder is felt as a large, Arm, clastic, and rounded tumour, stretching up to and perhaps above the umbilicus. <Edema of the legs may occur from its pressure on the iliac veins. Atony of the bladder is a sufficient cause for incomplete retention of urine. But it does not appear to be adequate to explain the complete retention with distension of the bladder that is commonly seen. For this to occur there must be some mechanical obstacle, how’ever slight, to the outward flow of the urine—contraction of the neck, or a congested or enlarged prostate. Could complete retention occur from a merely atonic bladder, we should meet with it as frequently in women as in men. It is the mechanical obstacle at the neck of the male bladder Avhich intensifies the effects of its atony and leads to the complete stoppage. After the bladder has once become distended, the retention may be com- ])lete, but it more commonly happens that a quantity of urine continues to dribble out of it; in fact, the amount that escapes in this manner may he very considerable, though the retention continue unrelieved. This retention with dribbling is a condition of much practical importance, as the continued escape of urine may lead the patient, and even the Surgeon, to overlook the tine nature of the disease ; the more so, as in elderly people retention slowly induced often occasions but little inconvenience. I have drawn off nearly a gallon of urine from a patient in whom it had not been suspected that reten- tion existed, in consequence of the continuance of this dribbling. In women, retention is not by any means so common as in men, but the bladder will sometimes attain an enormous size, rising as high as the umbilicus ; and such large bladders liave been tapjied under tlie supposition of the tumour being an oviirian cyst, or some similar growth. I once witnessed such a Ciise in which the Surgeon, to his surprise, on taj^ping the tumour, drew off a quantity of