576 DISEASJ^JS OF THE JA]VS AND THEIR uiPPENDAGES. sometimes contains spiciila of bone. It is covered by a thin layer of mucous ji membrane. Trecdmenl of simple fibrous epulis consists in the removal of the whole of the mass. If it be very small and superficial the growth alone may )>e removed and the surface from which it springs scraped with a gouge. By this means it may occasionally be cured, but more commonly, as it CA'inces a great tendency to reproduction, it must not be simply shaved off but the portion of the alveolar border from which it springs must be removed as well ; unless this be done, the growth Avill to a certainty be reproduced. In all ordinary cases of simple epulis, the removal may be done from the inside of the month without the necessity of making any incisions through the cheek. In very large masses of epulis extending towards the ramus, it may be necessary either to carry an incision from the angle of the mouth down- warns and outAvards, or to dissect up the cheek from the bone, and thus expose the disease fully. In performing the operation, the first thing to be done is to extract a tooth on each side of the tumour ; a cut must then be made AAoth a saAV through the alveoli of the teeth that have been removed, down to a level with the base of the growth. In doing this, care must be taken not to cut too near the remaining teeth, lest the akeoli be opened and their support lost. If the tumour be large, it maybe necessary to saAv deeply; but the base of the lower jaw should, whenever practicable, be left intact, the whole of its substance not being sawn through, so that, though a considerable portion of bone be removed, yet the length of the jaAV may be preserved. For this piu’pose Hey’s saw should not be used, as it is a niggling instrument, difficult to manage in this situation ; but a straight and stiff-backed saw, with as deep a blade as the mouth Avill conveniently admit, will be found most useful (Fig. 680). The epulis, included between two vertical cuts, may now, if small, be removed with cross-cutting forceps, and the bleeding stopped by placing a plug in the wound and compressing it against the teeth of the upper jaw by means of a bandage passed under the chin. If the epulis be large, a ^ horizontal cut should be made along the bone about midway between the I alA’eolus and the base, by means of Hey’s saAV ; and, after the bone has been I penetrated to a sufficient depth, the blade of the cross-cutting forceps may be I: fixed in this cut, and the diseased part then removed. Should there be a I spouting dental artery, it maybe necessary to apply a red-hot wire, or the perchloride of iron, in order to arrest its bleeding. The cut surface will speedily granulate ; and the cavity fills up with fibrous tissue. The operation At for the removal of epulis is a very safe one. Of 28 cases collected by Hutchinson A from different liondon Hospitals, only one Avas fatal, from pyEemia. A . Malignant Epulis.—By this term is commonly meant a myeloid sarcoma of I ‘ the alveolar border, but it is occasionally extended to eiDithelioma of the gum. Alyeloid Sarcoma of the Alveolar Border forms a soft purplish, very vascular I; tumour, groAving rapidly and speedily recurring after reinoA’al, unless the incisions are carried Avidely beyond the giwth. It occurs principally, so far as my observation goes, in males advanced in life. These tumours require H- the same operation as the simple epulis ; and, as much hajinorrhagc usually folloAvs their removal, a red-hot iron must he applied to the bleeding siirfiice. H If a malignant e])ulis be A’ery large, it may be necessary to remoA'c a portion of the whole thickness of the bone, through an external incision, as Avill be described in the section on Excision of the LoAver Jaw (p. 5‘.)7). H;