OPERATION FOR ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 841 K occasionally ])roYccl successful in the relief of cases of internal strangulation of an obsciu‘e character. It is aj)plical)le only to those cases in which the sudden invasion of the disease and the acuteness of the symptoms lead to a strong presumption of the presence of a twist or internal hernia. It is useless to attempt it if there is great abdominal distension. The operation is done as follows. The patient is anesthetized to complete muscular relaxation. He is then suspended by the flexed knees over the shoulders of a strong man. The small intestines will then be seen to gravitate towards the epigastrium, the l)ubic and iliac regions becoming hollow. The abdomen may now be gently manipulated, and the man Avho supports the patient may raise himself on his toes and come down sharply on his heels so as to give a slight concussion. In a case at University College Hospital, of extremely acute obstruction with violent stercoraceous vomiting, this treatment was immediately successful. As the patient Avas im’erted there Avas a loud gurgle and a feeling like the reduction of a large hernia Avas perceived by the hand on the abdomen. I have seen a case of fatal obturator hernia—unrecognized during life—in Avhich at the -})Ost-moriem examination it seemed probable that inversion and shaking Avould have effected reduction and so saved the patient. Enemata are useless and usually injurious in cases of acute obstruction. The external application of belladonna has been recommended Avith ; the vieAv of stimulating the peristaltic action of the intestine, but it does not seem to have been of any sendee. Puncture of the Intestine by means of a trochar or the aspirator for the purpose of withdrawing flatus iu cases of great distension has been fre- quently performed, sometimes Avith great relief to the patient. It may be safely done with a trochar, about a tenth or a twelfth of an inch in diameter. This must be introduced at the most prominent resonant point. The trochar iis then withdraAA'ii and the cannula left in for from five to ten minutes, the :gas being alloAved to bloAv off. It must not be moved about needlessly while ii it is in the gut. '^Vhen no more gas escapes, the vacuum of the aspirator may [i be applied to it as it is AvithdraAvn to prevent any fecal matter falling into the peritoneal cavity. If the cannula becomes choked with fecal matter it should be AAdthdraAvn. The puncture is rarely followed by any escape of feces into the cavity of the abdomen. In some apparently hopeless cases relief of the obstruction has been knoAvn to folloAv the paracentesis of the intestine. Operation for Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—When a patient is suffering from the symptoms of internal strangulation Avhich resist medical treatment, and haA'e not yielded to iiiA’ersion—if it have been thought ex- ■pedient to employ it—he Avill to a certainty die, unless relief caii be afforded oy operation ; and tAvo great questions will at last press themseh^es upon the Surgeon’s attention :—f, whether it is advisable to haA’e recourse to operative nterference ; and, 2, Avhen it is proper to undertake it. The solution of :hese questions is fraught Avith difficulty, and must ahA’ays be a matter of the most anxious consideration to the Surgeon. It is not only that he knows that, if the j)aticnt be left unrelieved, he must necessarily die ; hut that he is aware that the only means of relief, gastrotomy, is probably nearly as fatal as the disease for Avhicli it is undertaken. Ilut the difficulties that present Iiemselves in the solution of the question are much increased by the great obscurity in diagnosing the cause of the obstruction, for in many cases it is