302 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. while, ill the elongated tibia, the cnrve is usually directed forwards, the margins are broad and i-ouiid, the surfaces are convex, and the comjiression or flatten- ing, if there be any, is from before backwards.” Ateophy of Bone.—This term comprises two conditions: one in which the bone is wasted, and another in which an arrest of growth occurs. Atrophy occurs, as a natural result, in old age ; the change that takes place in the lower jaw being a familiar example. In other cases it happens as a consequence of fracture ; the nutrient artery of the bone having been torn across, and one of the fragments consequently I’eceiving insufficient vascular supply. Atrophy of bone commonly occurs also fi’om disuse, as is the case in old dislocations. In atrophy, the bone becomes thinner, lighter, and more porous than usual ; the compact structure dis- appearing until a mere paper-like layer may be left, and the cancellous being expanded, the spaces being filled with soft yellow fat. Atrophy of bones is common in general paralysis of the insane. It is often especially marked in the ribs, and is a common cause of fractures, occurring either spontaneously or during the restraint necessarily employed during a maniacal outbreak. Arrested Growth of bones is an occasional consequence of disease. Its occurrence in rickets will be presently referred to. It may be a result also of various diseases of the epiphyses and joints of atrophy, or of the resection of the epiphysis in children, and may follow the formation of cicatrices after bums in the neighbourhood of joints. The effect of paralysis on the growth of bone varies. It is common to see normal growth of the bones in limbs affected with infantile paralysis, in which the muscles are wasted; while in other cases it has been materially impaired. This probably depends upon whether the epiphyses are properly developed or not. EICKETS. Rickets is a general disease, the most important manifestation of which is an imperfect development of the new tissue of growing bones. It occurs only in early childhood,' most frequently appearing during the first or second year of life, though it has been observed as late as the ninth year and is said occasionally to be congenital. Causes.—Want of sufficient food and of fresh air, want of cleanliness and light, and all the unhealthy surroundings of the overcrowded poor of a large city, are the great causes of rickets. It is rarely met -with amongst the wealthy classes, and in the country it is scarcely seen, even among the poor. Insuffi- cient or improper food is undoubtedly the most important of the more special causes of rickets. There is but one proper food for a child during the first nine months of its life, and that is the milk of a healthy woman. The ill-fed mothers amongst the working-classes, exhausted as they often are by repeated child-bearing and unnaturally prolonged lactation, are very frequently unable to supply milk of a sufficiently nutritive quality, and thus, even when suckled the child is but half-fed. Should it be brought up by hand, in order to save expense, flour, or various useless patent preparations of starch are largely used in place of cow’s milk. This early feeding with starch before the child is capable of digesting it, is probably the most fruitful cause of rickets. Even if there be no eiTor in feeding, there is reason to believe that the offspring