DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND COED. 1178 the first case was as large as a cocoa-nut; in the second as a man’s fist, lioth were mednllaiy. The operation consists in exposing the tumour by a free incision—if necessary, carried through the tendon of tlie external ol)lique— opening tlie tunica vaginalis, enucleating the mass, and tying with care the shortened spermatic cord, which would probably he the most difficult part of the operation. The i^ossible co-existence of a congenital liernia must lx; remembered. But it is remarkable that peritonitis does not appear to be the chief danger of this operation. In neither of the cases above referred to did it occur, the patient dying of erysipelas in Arnott’s case ; of recuiTent cancer, a year after the operation, in that of Storks.'' OPEEATION OF CASTRATION. This operation may be required for the various non-malignant affections of the testicle that have resisted ordinary constitutional and local treatment, and have become sources of great annoyance and discomfort to the patient; in the •early forms of malignant disease, also, it may be advantageously practised. The operation is performed in the following way. The patient, having- had the pubes shaved, should lie upon his back with the legs and thighs hanging over the end of the table. If the tumour be of large size and vascular mi india-rubber tourniquet may be applied (Fig. 10, Yol. I., p. 43). The Surgeon should then take his stand in front of the patient between his legs, and, grasping the tumour at its posterior part with his left hand, make the scrotum in front of it tense. If the mass to be removed be of small size, he makes a longitudinal incision over its anterior surface ; if of large size, or if the skin be implicated, two curved incisions, enclosing a portion of the scrotum. The incision should commence opposite to the external abdominal ring, and be carried rapidly down to the lower part of the scrotum. By a few touches with a broad-bladed scalpel or bistoury, whilst the skin is kept upon the stretch, the tumour is separated from its scrotal attachments, and left connected merely by the cord, which must then be divided. In some •cases, it will be found advantageous to expose and divide the cord in the first instance, before dissecting out the tumour from the scrotum, as in this way a better command over it is obtained. The Division of the Cord constitutes the most important part of the operation, whether this be done first or last; as, unless care be taken, the cord may be retracted through the abdominal ring into the inguinal canal, where it is extremely difficult to follow it, and where the stump may bleed very freely, pouring out blood into its own areolar tissue so as to swell uj) rapidly and form a large extravasation of blood, and, if not properly secured, giving rise to extensive and even fatal infiltration into and between the muscles of the part and into the flank. This accident may be prevented by :separating the cord cleanly from the sheath—more especially from the cremas- teric fibres which are the chief causes of the retraction. It may then be seized with a pair of clamp-forceps, or tied tightly with a tape (Fig. 978). It is ver> ■slippery, and apt to slip through the assistant’s fingers, hence the use of the clamp or tape. It may then be cut across below this, and the arteries tied separately. The veins must be tied as well as the arteries. Hie arteries * I would refer those who wish for further information on this subject to Curluig’s excellent work ou tlie Testia.