595 CYSTS OF THE LOWER JAW. I incision externally, as the pus extends too far in the neck to allow of suflicieiit drainage being provided from within the month. Necrosis of the Lower Jaw has been already described (p. 577). Tumours of the Lower Jaw.—The lower jaw is a common seat of tumours. Simple Epulis, Myeloid Sarcoma of the alveolar border, Epithelioma of the Gum unplicating the bone, and Dentigerous Cysts, have been already described with tumours of the alveolar borders and of the upper maxilla ; they are, however, all more common in the lower jaw than in the upper. Cysts of the Lower Jaw.—Sinyle cysts, containing a glairy or mucous llnid in which cholesterine crystals are often seen, are not uncommon in the lower jaw. They cause a painless, slow enlargement of a limited portion of the bone. At fimt the fluid is surroimded by a solid bony wall, through which no fluctuation can be felt, and in this stage they have been mistaken for solid tumours. As the wall becomes thinner, fluctuation and egg-shell crackling can be felt. They originate in connection with a tooth, but their mode of origin is not very clear. Sometimes in extracting a painful tooth a small cyst, seldom more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, is found attached to a fang. These cysts are developed beneath the periosteum of the fang, and hence have been termed periosteal cysts. Tomes believes they are of inflam- matory origin, and the fact that their contents have the appearance of inspissated pus bears out the view. AVhether the single cysts are of a similar origin is nob certain. Multilocular cysts, which have also been described under. the names of cystic-sarcoma, adenoma, and fibro-cystic tumours of the jaw, although occasionally met with in the upper jaw, are infinitely more common in the lower. These tumours are of slow growth, but may reach a great size ; they are composed of cysts varying in size, and having more or less solid matter between them. The walls of the cysts are sometimes thin and membranous, sometimes composed of tissue, appearing to the naked eye as fibrous tissue, -while in other cases bony lamelke enter largely into their composition, so that on pressure they occasionally communicate the semi-crepitant sensation peculiar to cystic expansions of osseous structures. The fluid contained in these cysts is viscid, and usually semi-transparent, yellowish or bloody. Most commonly these tumours run a simple course, but occasionally they have been known to recur after removal and infect surrounding parts. The origin of these cysts formed the subject of a most interesting lecture delivered by F. 8. Eve at the Royal College of Surgeons. He confirmed the fact uilready noted by several observers, that the solid part of these tumours is composed of in-egular, branching columns of small round epithelial cells ■resembling those in the deeper layers of the epithelium of the gum, and sur- rounded by a fibrous stroma. In some cases the cells at the circumference were a>lumnar. The cysts arc formed by colloid degeneration of the epithelial \ cells. Eve believes that he has demonstrated that the columns of cells arc formed by an ingrowth of the epithelium of the gum, and that the starting point of the disease is often the irritation caused by. a diseased tooth. Falkson and Rrj’k, on the contrary, believe that in some cases at least these cysts have their origin in a persistence of a portion of the e]nthelium forming the enamel :»rgan of the developing teeth. They found their opinion upon the resemblance >f the epithelium cells and the contents of the smaller spaces to those observed in the enamel organ. The question of the origin of the tumours cannot be