RECURRENCE OF STONE AFTER OPERATION. 1017 •/ery rarely seen the two conditions combined. The only form of calculus that !! have seen in diabetic patients has been the uric acid. It is necessarily very aazardons to operate in such cases, at least by lithotomy. And even if lithotrity oe determined on, it would be well to defer the operation until the glycosuria las been checked or removed, at least for a time, by proper treatment. I have said nothing in this comparison between lithotrity and lithotomy of ;he comparative painfulness of the two operations ; for, as anaesthetics may be idmiuistered with equal advantage in both cases, there is little difference in his respect, except that perhaps the advantage lies on the side of lithotomy, ■48 being the shorter proceeding. From all that precedes, then, it would appear that although lithotrity, as at jresent performed, is adapted to by far the larger number of cases of stone in -he adult male, it cannot be looked upon as a universal mode of treatment, ■'jeing applicable only in favourable conditions of the urinary organs, to •alculi of moderate size, and after puberty ; and that a considerable number of .;ases will always be left in Avhich lithotomy offers the sole means of relief. Choice of Operation of Lithotomy.—The particular operation of litho- ii-omy to which recoimse should be had, will also vary according to the cha- racter of the stone. If this be small, and the patient an adult, the median operation may advantageously be performed. If it be of moderate or tolerably ;.arge size, and more particularly if the operatioir be practised on a child, the ateral appears to me to be the more applicable. If, again, the calculus be of k nordinate magnitude, the suprapubic, the medio-bilateral, or the recto-vesical I operation should be the method selected. In fact, the Surgeon should not con- iine himself too exclush^ely to any one method of operating, but should adopt idiat procedure which appears to be best adapted to the special circumstances oresented by the particular case before him, and should vary his method ac- ; wording to the state of the urinary organs, the age of the patient, and the size ind character of the stone. The Result of Operations for Stone will depend in a gveat measure ipoo the condition of the bladder, and the character of the stone. If the oladder be healthy, all symptoms Avill cease on the removal of the calculus, and ihe patient Avill be restored to perfect health. This usually happens when the calculus is of the lithic acid or the oxalate of lime variety, and of renal origin. If, however, the bladder be unsound, irritable, and the urine alkaline from de- lomposition, and disposed to the deposit of iffiosphatic matters, the calculus oeiiig phosphatic, and chiefly, if not wholly, vesical in its origin, then an • n’itable state of bladder may be lefc, or may speedily return after the opera- •tion, which will con.seciuently have been productive of little, or only of temporary benefit. Kecl'iirence of Calculus afier Operatiox.—This may take place from Four distinct causes :—1, in consequence of a continuance of the constitutional condition, under the influence of which the calculus wuis originally formed ; 1 '.2, from the descent of a renal calculus, which has existed in the kidney before the first operation ; 3, from a fragment of calculus having been accidentally 5 left in the bladder ; and 4, from the .accumulation of i)hosphatic deposit 4 in the fundus of the bladder, or in the line of imperfectly healed incisions. Relajvse from the first cause is probably not very common. When it occurs, the recurrent calculus is of course of the same comjK)sition as the primary one. The occasional occurrence of relapse shows the necessity of continuing consti-