EXTlPiPATlON OF THE LARYNX. 6Si recuiTcnce of the disease—14 only recovering', and of these only (> have been reported as alive one year or more after the operation. 22 out of the 42 deaths occurred within the first fortnight, chiefly from shock and pneumonia. Indeed, pneumonia appears to be the great danger during tlie earlier period after laryngectomy. But the influence of shock is also apparent in the death- rate, and this is not surprising when we reflect that many of these operations occupied from one to three hours in their performance. These results are by no means encouraging. There would appear to bo some prospect of advantage from laryngectomy in certain cases, especially when the disease is recognized early and is intrinsic, and more especially if it is sarcomatous. In extrinsic malignant disease of the organ it is very doubt- ful whether it is a justifiable procedure. In such cases there is not only the imminent risk of a directly fatal result, but the absolute certainty of a speedy recurrence of the disease. Lai-yngectomy, indeed, appears to offer no advantages over tracheotomy in such cases. By tracheotomy the patient is saved from the danger of immediate suffocation with little risk to life, and his subsequent existence will probably endure as long as it would in the face of the inevitably speedy recurrence of the carcinoma after complete extirpation of the larynx. The operation is clearly unjustifiable when the cervical glands are widely implicated, so as not to admit of thorough removal. The operation must be varied somewhat according to the extent of the disease, but the following plan recommended by Foulis is applicable to most cases. A vertical incision must be made accurately in the middle line from the body of the hyoid bone to the second ring of the trachea. The soft parts are then to be turned off the larynx, all bleeding vessels being ligatured as they are cut. When the larynx is fully exposed and all bleeding arrested, the cricoid cartilage is di’awn forwards with a sharp hook and the trachea divided, care being taken not to wound the oesophagus. The trachea is then at once plugged with a large vulcanite or leaden tube, slightly conical in shape and completely filling the passage. Several such tubes of different sizes should be at hand. The lar}'nx is then drawn forwards and separated from the oesophagus and the lower part of the pharynx, the edge of the knife being carefully turned towards the parts to be removed. ^Vlien all htemorrhage has ceased the wound may be partly closed, the tube being retained in the trachea. In the after-treatment the patient must be fed by means of a tube passed down the oesophagus. When the wound has contracted G ussenbauer’s artificial larynx, containing a reed for the production of vocal sounds, may be intro- duced. If the disease is not found to be so extensive as was expected, part of the larynx may be saved, as, for example, the upper part of the thyroid < cartilage.