SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. 920 Calculous Pyelitis forms the second stage of stone in the kidney. In it the same symptoms as above described persist, but tlie pain is more constant, though often less acute. Tliere may l)e great frequency of micturition. The urine, which remains acid, contains a gradually increasing amount of j)us, reaching sometimes to many ounces daily. If the several quantities of urine ])assed during the day be collected, it may be found that the pus is variable in (juantity, and may e^'on disapjiear for a few hours, or even ‘days, its rea])pear- aiice being accompanied by some relief of the pains in the loin. Intermittent pus in acid urine may be regarded, as llayer pointed out, as undoubted evidence of pyelitis affecting one kidney only. Before long, the ureter and pelvis, partly obstructed by the stone, become insufHcient to drain the pus away, and distinct and often very great enlargement of the kidney sets in. The swelling assumes the ordinary form of a renal tumour, to be subsequently described. The pelvis becomes dilated, the calyces enlarged, the pyramids destroyed, and at last the kidney may be reduced to a multilocular sac, the walls of which are composed of the thinned cortex surrounded by the thickened capsule and the indurated perinephritic fat. Fluctuation is often distinctly perceptible. This condition is termed Pyonephrosis. If the disease be allowed to progress unrestj’aiiied by treatment, the dilated pelvis or the thickened cortex may give Avay, and a perinephritic abscess form. The pus then gradually points towards the surface in the loin, but before doing so it may extend widely, from the iliac fossa to below the ribs. In other cases rupture into the colon may take place. In these cases medical treatment is useless, and early surgical interference gives the only ch^ince of cure. Three oj)erations may be performed ; aspha- tion, nephrotomy, and nephrectomy. Aspiration is seldom of any use in calculous pyonephrosis, except as a means of diagnosis, the needle sometunes grating against the stone as the puncture is made. It may, however, be ad- vantageous to attempt to reduce the bulk of the tumour by aspiration, repeated at short intervals, three or four times before proceeding to neplu’otomy. Nephrotomy is the operation specially indicated in these cases. Nephrectomy has been frequently performed for calculous i^yohephrosis, but the general opinion at present entertained is that much better results are obtained by nephrotomy with antiseptic drainage, followed at some months’ interval by nephrectomy if recovery does not follow the simpler operation. The calculus which has been the cause of the mischief is removed at the time the nephrotomy is performed. The removal of a stone from what must be regarded as the cavity of a large abscess is, as Morris points out, a very different opera- tion from nephro-lithotomy, and should certainly be distinguished by another name, otherwise great confusion must arise in our statistical records. Tubercular or Scrofulous Kidney.—The pathology and symptoms of this disease are fully described in works on medicine. It Avill be sufficient to allude here merely to those points that have a bearing on surgery. Tubercular disease of the kidney is indeed of considerable interest to the Surgeon, not only because he may be called upon to perform nephrotomy or nephrectomy for this cause, but because in a considerable proportion of cases the early symptoms are referred by the patient to the lower urinary tract, and may closely simulate stone and various other vesical affections, iubercle of the kidney may form merely a part of general tuberculosis, but in these cases the infection occurs late in the disease and gives rise to no sym]‘>toms.