I 642 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. quantity of sloug-li tliat would otherwise l)o left in the mouth. Hwellimr of the tongue, followed by rather profuse salivation and fVntor of the breath attends this operation ; but the mass, if properly constricted, will slough away in a few days, leaving a large gap that readily fills by granulation. When the disease extended so for back that it could not readily be reached from the mouth, Clocpiet, Arnott, and others, succeeded in strangling it by making an incision in the hyoid region, between the genio-hyoid muscles, carrying the ligatures by means of long needles through the base of the tongue, and then < drawing them tight through the aperture in the neck, so as to constrict the diseased mass. This method of operating was rarely successful and has long been abandoned. Excision of the Whole or of a Large Portion of the Tongue.— i This operation may be performed in four ways. 1. From the inside of the | mouth, without any external incisions. 2. By the submental method, through I the mylo-hyoid space. 3. By the buccal method, a free incision being made 1 through the cheek ; and 4. By division of the lower lip and jaw. 1 The excision of the whole tongue from the interior of the mouth is most I easily ]3erformed by means of the ^craseur, and it is to the introduction of this | i instrument into surgical practice by Chassaignac that we owe to a great extent I; the advance made in this operation during the last thirty years. There are [ many methods by which this operation may be performed, the difference in the ( 1 minor details being dependent on the extent and situation of the cancer, and 1 the amount of tongue that consequently requires extirpation. The following plan is that most usually adopted, and will be found effectual and safe in the { vast majority of cases. [ The gag having been applied, the end of the tongue should be secm’ed ^vith \ a piece of whipcord and well dravm forwards and upwards. The Surgeon then cuts across the frmnum by means of strong curved scissors, and divides successively the insertions of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossal muscles i into the lower jaw, cutting freely backwards so as to liberate the base of thejll tongue. He now snips across the reflexion of the mucous membrane of the ■ floor of the mouth from the lower jaw, and then, laying aside the scissors, ^ separates widely with his fingers the base of the tongue from these parts. As H he does this the assistant, who has charge of the whipcord ligature, draws the il tongue well forwards, and it comes bodily out between the lips. If the anterior H pillar of the fauces offer any obstacle it may be snipped across, and the wire of 11 the ecraseur may then be applied well round the back of the organ, the shaft H being pressed up under the base of the tongue. If the wire have a tendency »■ to slip forwards, a large double hook should be passed in front of it into theII base of the tongue, so as to steady it and prevent its slipping. By now working il it slowly, the Avhole organ can be removed without hmmorrhage. Nunneley, of Leeds, devised an ingenious mode of applymg the ecraseur sojw as to remove portions of the tongue, or, indeed, the whole organ, as far backll as the hyoid bone. This operation consists in passing the chain of the e'eraseurH through the centre of the mylo-hyoid sjDaceby means of a sickle-shaped needle,™ about 4| inches long and as broad as a bistoury blade. By this needle theH: chain is brought into the mouth close to the frmnum. Two or three curved™^ and strong hare-lip pins are now passed deeply into the tongue, obliquely,H" behind the seat of the disease, their points being made to project forwards^ below the organ, so as to prevent the chain from slipping. The loop is nowM.