650 DISEASES OF THE 2I0UTII AND THROAT. situated near the fnicninn adhering to the jaw, and extending upwards into the substance of the tongue, ddie whole incisor portion of tlie lower jaw and the anterior half of the tongue with the corresponding part of the floor of the mouth ^vere removed in one piece. The operation was performed more tlian ten years ago, and the patient is still alive and in good health. The mortality directly dne to the operation is considerable, but not very high. Barker has collected 218 cases from various sources, and finds that the death rate is IGT per cent. It is satisfactory, however, to note that of late years it has considerably diminished, ddius, at University College Hospital 38 cases were operated on between 1871 and 1881, of these 10 died ; 2o of these operations were performed before 1877, and of these 8 died, while of the 18 since that date only 2 died. The diminished death-rate seems to be due in part at least to the more successful prevention of decomposition by the use of iodoform. The records of excision of the tongue are so far from satisfactory, that some Surgeons have doubted the propriety of performing the operation; but when we remember the terrible fate of the patient if the disease be allowed to run its course, and that cases of apparent cure, although exceptional, are not unknown, it cannot be denied that the opera- tion is not only justifiable but advisable. The hope of improvement in the results seems to lie first in early recognition of the disease, so that it may be removed before the glands are affected, and secondly, if this period be passed, in free removal of the diseased organ with the whole of the lymphatic glands, which receive lymph from it, if this be possible. The fact that epithelioma seldom recurs in the viscera encourages us to attempt the removal of the affected glands whenever their situation is such that the operation can be safely undertaken. Effect of the Removal of the Tongue on Speech.—Although distinct- ness of articulation is necessarily affected for a time by these operations on the tongue, yet it is usually restored when only the anterior third or half is removed ; the tissue of the organ recovering its normal mobility with remarkable facility, and indeed appearing to possess a very considerable reparative power, and to be capable of reproduction to some extent. Even after removal of the whole of the tongue, the power of deglutition is preserved, and that of articulation, although at first somewhat imperfect, eventually returns, so that the patient is able to speak so distinctly that strangers would not be aware of the loss he had sustained. Amongst the tortures to which Christian martyrs were subjected in the early ages, and the punishments which have been inflicted on heretics, “ cutting out the tongue ” was one of the most barbarous. Martyi’ologists in describing this horrible mutilation have remarked with wonder, that, although it was practised with the view of depriving the sufferers of the power of speech, yet it often failed in its effect, and those who had been subjected to it were enabled to speak afterwards as plainly as before. This they have attributed to direct miraculous intervention. But, as modern Surgery has shown that the power of speech returns equally, whether a cancerous tongue have been extirpated by the knife of the Surgeon, or a heretical tongue by that of the executioner, we must look upon the return of speech rather as a physiological fact, than as a miracle specially "wrought for the benefit of those mutilated in and for the propagation of the true faith. Diseases op the Floor of the Mouth.—Solid Tumours are occii-