1046 DISEASES OF TJIE SLA DDK It. iidinittcd into University College Hospital, and was under the joint care of Wilson Fox and myself. There was a tense elastic tumour, smooth and rounded, occupying the whole abdomen and extending into the pelvis, so as to he felt through the rectum. Had it occurred in a woman, the disease would probably have been pronounced ovarian. The tumour had existed for six months, had gradually increased, but occasioned no uneasiness except by its pressure-effects. There was and had been no difficulty in passing urine or in defecation. The tumour was aspirated at its most prominent part, and seven pints of clear urine were drawn off'. The patient suddenly became faint, and died of syncope. On examination after death, two enormous sacs were found connected with the bladder, one on each side, by a rounded opening that would admit the little finger. These orifices were ccpiidistant from the mesial line, and about an inch and a half above each ureter. The sacs were thin-walled, composed chiefiy of mucous membrane and peritoneum, possibly having scattered muscular fibres in their composition ; both were emptied through the bladder by the one puncture. The ureter on each side was adherent to the wall of the sacculus and considerably pressed upon, and as the result of this the pelves of the kidneys were dilated ; the pyramidal portion of the kidney was absorbed and the cortex greatly thickened and indicated by chronic interstitial inflammation. The bladder was greatly dilated and hypertrophied, its mucous membrane was opaque and white, and showed no signs of old or recent cystitis. The prortate and urethra were healthy, and no source of mechanical obstruction was detected. The cause of the condition is extremely obscure. There is a similar specimen, but somewhat less marked, in the museum of University College ; the sacculus springs from the same spot, which indeed, from comparison with other specimens, seems to be the common point of origin of all sacculi of the bladder which reach any considerable size. TUMOUBS OF THE BLADDEB. Various forms of tumour, both malignant and simple, are met with in the bladder. The most common simple growth is the Villous Tumour or Papilloma. It consists of delicate branched processes which, when the growth is immersed in water float out, so that it somewhat resembles a sea anemone. These may spring from a narrow base forming a peduncu- lated mass, or spread over a considerable area of the bladder wall. The ; base from which they arise may be almost level with the sm’face of the i bladder, or may form a fleshy mass of some thickness, klicroscopic exami- V nation shows that each papilla is composed of a fine capillary loop, surrounded £ by an extremely delicate connective tissue, in some parts almost homogeneous, with numerous rounded or spindle-shaped cells scattered through it. The «.j surface is covered with epithelium of the same character as that of the bladder, but more delicate. The cells are often oval or fusiform, and are w arranged in several layers. This delicate epithelium separates almost im- IN mediately if the growth is put in water, and is consequently often lost in m microscopic specimens. The base is composed of loose and highly vas- cular connective tissue. These tumours almost invariably spring from some | part of the trigone, usually near the orifice of one ureter or the meatus internus. They are usually single, but occasionally two or more are found. Sir Henry Thompson states that only about one in six or seven arc dis-