850 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. of 20 cases in which the lumbar operation was performed, 11 recovered and 9 I Ciosar IlaAvkins lias collected and analysed 44 cases, in which an artificial anus was formed by opening the intestine; in 17 of these the artificial anus Avas made through the peritoneum, and in 27 behind that inembi-ane; hut for Yarious reasons, which are stated at length in the 'paper, Hawkins ex- cludes 5 of the cases of peritoneal section, leaving only 12 to compare with 2G cases of operation behind this membrane. Of the former he finds that 7 died and 5 recovered ; the recoveries amounting, therefore, to only forty-one per cent, in the cases of this category; whilst of the 2G cases Avhere the peritoneum AAms uninjured, 10 died and IG recovered ; the proportion of recoveries in the cases of this category amounting to sixty-one per cent. Though the large intestine was opened in all these cases, the operation was [lerformed on the right side in 10 instances ; in 4 cases the right colon and caBcum were opened through the peritoneum, and of these all died; whilst of the remaining G, in which the right colon was opened behind the peritoneum, 4 recovered. The preference, therefore, as Hawkins observes, on the right side, is certainly due to the lumbar operation. It is remarkable, however, that in the operation on the left colon, the results are someAvhat different; for, of 8 cases in Avhich this intestine Avas opened through the peritoneum, 5 recovered and 8 died ; whilst died. Hawkins observes, that the inequalities of the numbers appear, hoAv- ever, to leave the question as to the mode of oj)erating on the descending colon still undecided ; and that an operator is justified in selecting whichever situa- tion he thinks best for the formation of an artificial anus on the left side of the body. Van Erckelens, who has collected 262 cases of colotomy, confirms the opinion expressed by Hawkins. Of the 262 cases, 165 were performed by Amussat’s method, and of these 63 died, about 38 per cent.; 84 were per- formed by Littre’s method, and of these 39 died, or about 46 per cent. lu the remaining cases the method of operating Avas not recorded, Of the 262 cases, 110 were for cancer, 49 for strictures, 44 for imperforate anus, 43 for intestinal obstruction, and 16 for fistulous openings from the rectum into neighbouring passages. The difference in the mortality is therefore not great, but yet is distinctly in favour of Amussat’s operation. Of those cases in which death has resulted from Amussat’s oj>eration, a large proportion appear to have been due, not directly to the operation, but to the influence of the preAious disease, the operation having occasionally been uselessly done at the last extremity. We should, therefore, have less hesitation in performing the extra- peritoneal operation in an early stage of those cases in AAdiich it is called for, than Ave should if the section itself Avere attended Avith any serious risk to the patient’s life. I I