DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. 1172 cavities may heal, and tlie testicle remain withered, hut free from active disease. Treatment.—The more 1 sec of this disease the more conA'iiiced I am tliat the sooner the diseased organ is removed the better will be the patient’s chance of prolongation of life. The danger of infection of the system by acute tuberculosis from a tubercular testis is so great that when once the diagnosis has been made castration should not be delayed. In most cases however the operation is at best calculated to give the patient only temporary relief, as the disease usually extends along the vas deferens befond the reach of the knife, and will continue to progress in the vesiculm seminales and prostate, unless the patient succumb early from tubercular disease of the lungs or brain. Before undertaking it, the urine must be examined for pus, and the state of the prostate and vesiculm seminales ascertained from the rectum, as the operation would, of course, be useless if the afiection of the testicle were merely a part of tuberculosis of the whole genito-urinary tract, Should the patient decline to submit to the operation, or his health be so bad that its performance is not advisable, the treatment must be conducted on general principles; alteratives, tonics, especially the iodide of iron, with cod-liver oil, and general hygienic means calculated to improve the health, must be steadily persevered with. Local applications are of little avail. The abscesses must be opened when they form. The cavity should be thoroughly scraped out wth a sharp spoon and dressed with iodoform. Under this treatment it sometimes heals rapidly, but the cure is rarely permanent. If fungus form, it is of little use to try to treat it by the methods before described, if the body of the testis be deeply infiltrated with tubercle, no good could result. Syphilitic Orchitis, Syphilitic Sarcocble.—Syphilitic disease of the testicle appears under two forms, a simple inflammatory and a gummatous. The latter was formerly confounded with tubercle, under the name, of tuberculo-syphilitic sarcocele. The error arose before the exact nature of the syphilitic gumma was understood. Syphilitic orchitis of both forms may occur either as the result of inherited syphilis in infants or of acquired syphilis in adults. It is usually one of the later manifestations of the disease. The Simple Inflammatory Form, which has been accurately described by Virchow, consists essentially of a chronic inflammatory overgrowth of the connective tissue between the tubuli seminiferi. The disease may uniformly affect the whole gland or be limited to localized patches. If the whole gland be affected, the organ slowly enlarges to perhaps more than double its natural size. The enlargement will be found to affect the body of the gland, the epididymis undergoing but little if any change; in fact, it may be so far] concealed by the thickening round it as to be scarcely recognizable. The cord and vas deferens are unaffected. The body of the gland feels hard, almost cartilaginous, and the surface is smooth or perhaps slightly irregular. There is’no pain, except a dragging sensation in the gi’om due to the increased weight of the testicle. There is little or no tenderness, and in the more advanced stages the peculiar sensation caused by squeezing a healthy testicle is absent. There is no tendency to softening or to the formation of abscess. The disease is almost always accompanied by hydrocele, but at the same time adhesions may exist at various parts between the parietal and visceral layers of the tunica vaginalis, dividing the fluid into two or more portions, or