LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 95' .assKstanfc, 'who stands on tlie patient’s left, and who raises and draws aside the -scrotum with the left hand whilst lie holds the stall’ in the ri^’lit (Fi«‘. Hoi). The Surgeon then sees that the stall is held in the way in which he prelers it. There are two ways in which it may he held ; it may either l)e drawn well up into the arch of the pubes, or it may be pushed somewhat down, and slightly turned towards the left of the ])eriiuenm. Liston always employed the first meihod, which I certainly think is the best, as it tends to increase the space between the nrethra and the rectum, and consequently lessens the danger of wounding the gut, which more than counterbalances the advantage of tlie other method—that of approaching the membranous portion of the urethra to the surface. The external incision is made by entering the knife in the raphe of the peri- ' na3um, one inch and a half above the anus, and carrying it downwards and outwards, until it reaches a point that is just below the anus, but about one- ; tliird nearer to the tuberosity of the ischium than to the margin of the anal :«iperture (Fig. Hoi). It is useless to prolong the incision beyond this, as any (freer division of the structures of the scrotum and on the nates cannot facili- ctate the extraction of the stone ; but it must occupy the extent indicated, otherwise considerable dilli- tculty may be experienced in :the later steps of the operation. ,The depth to which this in- ' cision should be carried must vary according to the obesity of the subject; usually from about three-quarters of an inch tto an inch, but not so deeply :above as below. By this in- ' cision the skin, superficial (fascia, subcutaneous fat, and i inferior hEeniorrhoidal vessels, ;are divided. After it is com- ipleted, the knife is again intro- ( duced a little below the upper ipart of the avouikI, and the i blade is run lightly down- wards over any resisting struc- S52.—Lateral Litliotomj'; Finger-nail in Groove of tlie Stall'. •tures ; the left fore-finger ' x' I*"' being placed at the middle of the wound, so as to protect •the rectum. In this, way the triangular space is opened between the ;.accelerator urime, the erector penis, and the trailsversalis perintei muscles ; ..and as the knife is carried downwards, the last-named muscle, the •transversalis perinaii artery and some areolar tissue are cut through. The ’ lower border of the triangular ligament also is notched so as to open up the space betiveen the two layers of the ligament, in which the membranous part of the urethra lies. The knife is tlien withdrawn, and the left index-finger is pushed deeply into this space until the edge of the nail is lodged in the groove of the staff (Fig. 852), Avhich can be felt just anterior to the prostate, thinly covered by the membranous portion of the nrethra, the constrictor urethra.',