i6i OF THE INiWMINATE^SYMFTOMS recurrent laiyiigeal nerve. Such cases arc very rare pathologically, and necessarily most difficult ol‘ accurate diagnosis. As the Surgeon will usually get the credit of having killed the patient if he be induced to perforin the operation, and the relief be not immediate and great, I would advise him not to operate unless the diagnosis be most clear, or in circumstances of imminent death from uncomplicated laryngeal spasm, with the view of affording immediate, even if it be temporary, relief. If any operation be done, it should certainly be laryugotomy, and not tracheotomy. ANEUBISM OF THE INNOMINATE ABTERY. Aneurisms of this artery are very frequently accompanied by dilatation or actual aneurism of the aorta. Innominate aneurisms may be either of the tubular or the sacculated kind, and usually give rise to a train of serious and dangerous symptoms, from their pressure upon important parts in their neighbourhood. Indeed, a glance at the relations of this artery will show the important effects that must be produced by the pressure of a tumour springing from it. Before it lies the left innominate vein, to the outer side are the lower cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, the right innominate vein, the right pneumogastric and the pleura ; behind it and to its inner side is the trachea. An aneurismal tumour of the innominate artery may extend backwards so as to come into relation with the oesophagus, and upwards so as to press on the right recurrent laryngeal. SY3IPT03IS.—The general symptoms of an aneurism of this artery are the existence of a pulsating tumour of a globular shape behind the right sterno- clavicular articulation, attended with pain, and perhaps oedema of the right side of the face and arm, with some difficidty in respiration, laryngeal cough, and dysphagia. The tumour is usually soft and compressible, filling up more or less completely the hollow above the sternum, and even rising as high in the neck as the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage ; it pushes forwards, first the sternal, and afterwards the cla-\dcular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and has occasionally been seen to extend into the posterior inferior triangle of the neck; and, indeed, is generally most distinctly defined towards its brachial aspect. In some cases no tumour rises into the neck, but the sternum, clavicle, and costal cartilage of the first rib, are found to be considerably pushed forwards beyond their natural level. In the space around the right stemo-clavicular articulation, and about the upper part of the sternum, there will be dulness on percussion, and marked pulsation is often felt in .the first intercostal space. In very many instances there is no bruit, but merely a strong impulse with the heart’s sounds, as distinct as in the cardiac region, or even more so ; but in other cases there may be every variety of bruit. Pressure-Effects.—The most important symptoms are occasioned perhaps by the pressure-effects of the tumour upon the neighbouring parts, affecting the pulse, the venous circulation, the nerves, respiration, and deglutition. The Pulse is iLsually influenced, being much smaller and feebler in the radial artery of the affected than of the sound side, and in some instances being completely arrested ; owing, doubtless, to pressure on or occlusion of the subclavian. The pulsation in the right carotid and its branches is also frequently much less powerful than in the opposite vessel. These signs com- monly occur iKjfore any extenial tumour is seen or can be felt, and hence con- stitute an important element in the early diagnosis of the disease. VOI-. II. ;vf