URIXAMY CALCULUS AND LITJIOTOMY. 978 Surgeon can judge of the exact point where to enter the knife (directing it ko as to open tlie groove just below the angle), which he cannot do with the curved stair; the incision u])wards also is limited, and there is, besides, less danger of wounding the rectum, the urethra being drawn upwards away from it, and not pushed down against it, as with the ordinary stall*. The knife should be straight-backed, having the back not more than two inches long; so that the Surgeon can tell to what depth he has entered it, 1 liave found it advantageous in practice to cany a beaked director, shaped like a lai-«»-e hernia-director, along the groove, after the incision has been made in tlie urethra, so as to open up the canal and thus to clear tlie passage for the finger. And having opened the urethra, I think it better to dilate the prostate befoi-e withdrawing the staff; by pushing the finger slowly, with a rotatory movement, along its side, the bladder is entered vnth more ease and certainty ; Avhereas, if only the probe be used, it may not be stiff enough, and the Surgeon is a])t to push the bladder before him. It has been proposed to employ mechanical means of dilatation, instead of the finger, to open up the prostate and neck of the bladder ; and I had some dilators for this purpose constructed by Coxeter on the principle of the two-bladed dilator of the female urethra. I tried them on the dead subject; but I have not ventured to use them on the living, lest, by the employment of screw-power, the same deep lacerations of the neck of the bladder should result that were so fatal in the old jilariau operation. Indeed, I believe that their use would be fraught with danger from their liability to occasion rupture of the neck of the bladder ; and, if persisted in, I cannot but fear that they will bring discredit on the operation, reducing it to the condition of an old Marian, and repeating the dangers of that procedure. No safe dilatation can be effected except by the finger, with which no harm can be done, whilst it appears to me that the greatest possible mischief may be done with screw-dilators. COMPARISOK BETWEEN THE MEDIAN AND THE LATERAL OPERATIONS.—The two operations, the lateral and the median, cannot with propriety be compared as a whole, as we have as yet no sufficient statistics -to enable us to determine whether the mortality after the median has been less than that which has fol- lowed the lateral. We may, however, compare the modern median ojieration with the lateral, and endeavour to determine in what respects the median is superior, in what inferior, to the lateral, and in what cases it might be eai- ployed instead of the latter. For in this, as in lithotrity, the Sm’geon should not be too exclusive ; it is his duty to learn and to practise different methods of attaining the same end, and to make use of one or the other according to the requirements of the actual case before him, and to endeavour to select what is good and to reject what is doubtful in every method brought before him. It would be in the highest degree unsurgical to crush only, or to cut only, every patient with stone coming under care ; and I believe that there is a choice as to the cutting operation to be performed. In fact, there are no opera- tions in Surgery that require to be so frequently modified, aceordiug to the necessities of the particular case, as those for stone ; the age of the patient, the size and number of the calculi, and the condition of the urinary organs, all exercise very important modifying influences, and prevent the Sui’geon from confining himself to one method exclusively. In order to make a proper comparison between these two oj'yerations—the median and the lateral—we must take them seriatim. Tlie difficulties and 'i. ■»