OBTURA TOR HERNIA—TREA THE NT. 827 Treatment.—Taxis has been employed in a few cases. In one instance, Reiser reduced an obturator hernia in this way, tlie patient surviving ; but, in another case under his care, death took place, a portion of the walls of the in- testine remaining strangulated. AVerner was successful in an instance in i\ which, in addition to applying pressure externally, he introduced his hand into £ i I; the vagina, and employed traction backwards and upwards. AVclsch of Herren- berg reduced an obturator hernia by external pressure ; the patient was ap- parently doing well, Avhen, in a few days, an abscess appeared at the site of the hernia, and he died in seven weeks. At the post-mortem examination, the end of the vermiform appendix was found projecting through the thyroid foramen, with its tip laid open by the suppurative process. In thirteen cases of which I can find records an operation was performed, followed in four cases by recovery and in nine by death. The recoveries occurred in the practice of Obre, Bransby Cooper, and Lorinser of A^ienna ; and the deaths in cases operated on by Heath of Hewcastle-on-Tyne, Nuttall of Leicester, Heilberg and Zaln-tmann, Amtz of Ringkjdbing, Ulrich and ■ Wilms of Berlin (two cases), and Szigmondi of Vienna. In Obr6’s case, the 'patient was seized with symptoms of strangulation, but no tumour could be 'detected in any of the ordinary seats of hernia. “ On uncovering the upper :oart of both thighs at the same time, the eye detected a slight degree of hilness in Scarpa’s triangle on the right side ; this triangle of the opposite imb was well marked with a hoUow, or depression passing down its centre, out this was lost on the affected side, and the whole contour of this part of ,:he limb was visibly fuller than that of the corresponding one. There was no :umour or circumscribed swelling ; but, on standing over the patient, and .^•ising firm pressure with the ends of the fingers over the neighboiu’hood of the bmoral artery, and a little below the saphenous opening, a distinct hardness ii > )Ould be felt (slight in its extent), giving an impression as if the sheaths of r,he vessels were being pressed on.” Taking the dangerous state of the patient nto consideration, Obre acted in accordance with the best rules of surgery ; t and, thinking that there might be a hernia deeply strangulated in the femoral 4 anal, he made an incision downwards in this situation, but was disappointed an finding, when the saphenous opening was exposed, that there was no intes- i ine confined there. As, however, a hard structure could be felt deeply at he inner border of the opening, the fascia lata was exposed, and the pectineus luscle divided to the extent of about two inches, when a hernial sac of about he size of a pigeon’s egg, and containing intestine, came into view. In this •peration the saphena vein gave some trouble, lying in the course of the ncision. The sac having been laid open, the stricture was divided upwards, uring which part of the procedure the vein was accidentally cut, and required . gature ; no other vessel was tied. The operation, which reflects the greatest i. ' redit on Obr6’s diagnostic skill and dexterity, was perfectly successful, the i-atient making an excellent recovery. In Bransby Cooper’s case, the patient, ’ woman aged forty-nine, recovered from the operation, but died of bronchitis refore leaving the hospital. In Lorinser’s case, the existence of the hernia 'tr ivas detected by vaginal examination. On cutting down on the hernia (on the leventh day of the symptoms) the intestine U’as found gangi’enous. A fmcal stula resulted, but subsequently closed ; and the patient survived eleven lonths, dying at last of tuberculosis. In Szigmondi’s case the patient died rom dysentery some time after the operation. In another case operated on i Sr h a