EXCISION OF JOINTS. 374 scapula the situation of the suprascapular artery can be ascertained, and unless it is overlapped by the tumour it may be at once tied and divided. The pos- terior scapular may be now sonj^ht for by carefully dividing the levator aiiguli scapula} beneath which the main trunk will be found, and may be secured. An assistant can then force his finger forwards in the upper and outer angle of the wound, and compress the subclavian artery against- the firet rib. The muscles attached to the posterior border may then be divided, the serratus magnus being cut as close as possible to its insertion, and the hand passed to the ventral aspect of the bone, which is thus drawn forcibly backward and outwards. The muscles attached to the coracoid process may then l)e divided or the process sawn through at its root. The whole bone can now be drawn still further outwards, and the joint opened from the inner side by dividing the subscapularis close to its insertion. The disarticulation is then completed, and the remaining muscles divided, the knife being kept as close as possible to the bone so as to avoid wounding the main trunk of the subscapular. The posterior circiunflex is in danger of being cut as the long head of the triceps is divided unless the edge of the knife be turned away from it. The teres major should be cut near its attachment to the scapula. In this operation the haemorrhage is necessarily copious, and may be dangerous but by compression of the subclavian artery after the early stages of the operation, and the immediate application of Sir Spencer Wells’s forceps (a dozen of which at least should be at hand) to every bleeding point, it can usually be kept well under control. In one of the earliest cases of removal of a portion of the scapula, in which Liston took away the upper part of the bone for a vascular sarcoma, the bleeding was frightful, and was arrested only by the most energetic means. After the operation the flaps must be laid down and retained in position by sutures, free drainage being provided by means of tubes. Result.—In 1878 Yon Adehnann published the results of 61 cases of total removal of the scapula which he had collected from medical literature. Of these, 46 recovered, 14 died, and in one the result was not ascertained. These cases include those in which the arm was removed at the same time as the scapula, and several in which the amputation or excision of the head of the humerus had been j)erformed at some previous time. In 17 cases in which the subsequent utility of the arm was mentioned, it was very good in 12, in one only was it recorded as being very slight. In fact the danger is much less than might at first be supposed fi’om an operation of such magnitude. Clavicle.—The clavicle may require to be partially or wholly excised. In caries or necrosis of this bone, portions of it may be gouged away or extracted without much difficulty, the bone being rarely affected through its Avhole thick- ness, and its posterior part not requiring removal; but when, in consequence of the growth of tumours, the removal of the whole or greater part of the bone is necessary, the operation is one of the most hazardous in surgery, as a glance at the anatomy of the parts lying beneath the bone, and encroached upon by the morbid growth, will indicate. In 1828 Mott excised the clavicle for an “ osteo-sarcoma ” which measured four inches in diameter. This operation was one of great difficulty ; it occupied four hours in its performance, and forty ligatures were required to restrain the hiemorrhage. The subclavian vein, thoracic duct, and phrenic nerve were exposed, but the patient made a good recovery, and was alive many years afterwards. Similar operations, but not