912 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. the dilatation of the vessels is preceded by a contraction of longer or shorter duration, giving rise to the suppression noted above. 1 n a healthy kidney such an attack of acute hyperasraia soon passes off and does no harm ; but supposing the kidney to be already diseased, the subacute condition may readily become acute and terminate fatally. Repeated attacks of such hyper- mmia, which probably result from the irritation of a stone, or passing urine through a bad stricture, Avould in all probability be alone sufficient to lead to a chronic interstitial change in the kidney. It is a matter of observation, that fatal affections of the kidney scarcely ever result from operations performed on the penile portion of the urethra. 3. The presence of Septic Matter in tlLe Pelvis of the Kidney. This plays the most important part in producing the final acute condition which so often kills the patient. In the first ^dace, the mere presence of such an irritating sub- stance as ammoniacal urine in the pelvis of a kidney already diseased, would certainly intensify the existing inflammation. It seems probable, however, that in many cases the septic matter thus pent up at some degree of pressure (for the thick mixture of mucus, pus, and urine cannot pass the valves of the ui’eter, already somewhat obstructed by the swollen mucous membrane and perhaps by a hypertrophied or distended bladder, so readily as healthy urine) becomes absorbed by the lymphatics of the kidney, and thus gives rise to a diffuse intertubular inflammation rapidly running on to suppuration. This would account for the pale streaks seen running in many cases parallel to the straight tubules in the pyramids, and expanding in the cortex. The pre- sence of the micrococci in the tubules may also be taken as evidence that the decomposition of the urine may extend far into the kidney substance from the pelvis. Probably this condition alone is sufficient to account for many cases of acute suppurative nephritis, but it must be remembered that suppuration of the kidney does occur, occasionally, in cases in which the urine in the pelvis is free from decomposition. George Johnson suggests that the scattered abscesses may occasionally be due to rupture of the tubules and local extrava- sations of urine ; and in a kidney already softened by acute interstitial nephritis, it is very possible that this may occur. Dickinson accounts for the abscesses by a theory of septic embolism in the veins, a sort of local pysemia; but the presence of the general change, and the fact that eveiy stage is found between commencing diffuse interstitial inflammation and the fully formed abscesses, seem to contradict this view. Goodhart of Guy’s Hospital has suggested the possible connection between erysipelas and suppuration of the kidney, and has advanced some very interesting evidence in favour of his view, which is well worthy of further investigation, although, at most, it could account for but a small proportion of the deaths from this disease. It will be seen from the above, that in the production of fatal interstitial nephritis a number of causes are at work, sometimes all together, sometimes singly, and no exclusive theory can possibly explain more than a small propor- tion of the cases. Symptoms of Kidney-Disease in Surgical Affections of tlie Genito- urinary Organs.—Simple dilatation of the Icidney^ although a condition seriously endangering the success of any operation on the urinary organs, gives rise to remarkably few symptoms ; and it is surprising to what an extent the structure of the kidney may be damaged by chronic interstitial nephritis arising from this cause without interfering in any noticeable degree with the patient s