DISEASES OF ARTERIES. 90 diseased kidney, Johnson has described a thickening of the walls of the smaller arteries, which he believes to be due chiefly to the hypertrophy of the muscular coat. The nature of these changes and their extent is still a matter of dispute ; but whatever the exact pathological change may be, it is beyond a doubt that it causes considerable obstruction to the circulation, a fact which is made evident by the hypertrophy of the heart that accompanies the disease and the evidence of increased arterial tension as indicated by the The granular contracted kidney and the general vascular changes associated with it are veiy commonly the result of gout, so much so that this form of Bright’s disease is often termed the “gouty kidney.” Gout is usually the result of an abuse of alcoholic stimulants, and thus habitual alcoholic excess comes indirectly to be an important cause of chronic endarteritis. The influence of syphilis in the causation of atheroma is a more doubtful point. Aitken attaches great importance to it. The effect of syphilis in causing disease of the smaller arteries, and fibroid induration of organs and tissues has already been pointed out (see Syphilis, Yol. I.), and it is evident that these changes would tend to obstruct the circulation and thus cause increased arterial tension. Whether it acts more directly as a cause of atheroma is uncertain. The most important predisposing cause of chronic endarteritis is old age. After a certain j)eriod of life the arteries in common with other tissues become impaired in structure. This manifests itself chiefly by a diminution in the normal elasticity of the coats, so that they become less capable of withstanding any strain to which they may be exposed. So frequent, and indeed constant are these transformations of the arterial coats during the decline of life, that they may be considered the natural result of the diminution of the nutrient activity consequent upon advance in years. Gmelin has found that there is a progressive increase in the earthy matters contained in the coats of healthy arteries as the individual advances in life. Thus he ascertained that the ash of the arteries of a newly-born child yields 0’86 per cent, of phosphate of lime ; the healthy arteries of an adult 1'25 ; and those of an old man 2'77 of the same salt; whilst the calcified arteries of an aged man contain 4*01. There is no precise period of life at which these changes set in ; old age is a relative term, and, so soon as the system has passed its full maturity, in what- ever year of life this may happen, there is a tendency for these degenerative changes to take place. The tendency to early degeneration of arteries is frequently hereditary. Effects of Chronic Endarteritis.—As a consequence of the loss of elas- ticity resulting from the chronic inflammatory and degenerative changes in the coats of the arteiy, it usually yields more or less before the distending force of the heart. This change is most marked in the aorta and its primary divisions, but is occasionally seen in the femoral and brachial arteries. The dilatation may be regular, or pouch-like projections may fonn here and there. At the same time the vessel is often somewhat elongated so as to assume a tortuous form. It is in consequence of these changes that the name arferifis defoiimns, was given to this disease by Virchow. The interior of the dilated vessel is rough and irregular in consequeiice of the projection of the atheromatous patches ; when softening has taken place, “ atheromatous ulcers ” may be scattered here and there over the surface, and in other cases it may be paved