1NTE8TINA L OllBTJl VO TION. 840 impossible, it is generally expedient to try the effect of proper medical treatment, 'which will sometimes, even in apparently hopeless cases, afford relief. In former times it 'was the custom to administer purgatives in these cases, hut it has long been recognized that they do nothing but harm ; they increase the pain and vomiting, exhaust the patient, and can have no influence over any real intestinal obstruction. The only plan that appeal’s to me of any value is the continued administration of opium, accompanied by hot fomentations to the abdomen. It was formerly the custom to add a small quantity of calomel to the opium, but further experience has shown that this is not neces- sary, and as it might possibly cause some irritation of the intestine it is better avoided. The opium may be given in the solid form ; but in acute obstruction, if there is much vomiting this would be useless, and hypodermic injections of morphia then be administered. It must be given in such quantities as to relieve pain ; usually about one grain of opium, or a quarter of a grain of morphia hypodermically every six to eight hours will be found sufficient. This treatment will in all cases be of considerable service, and in some, even the most hopeless and complicated, will afford satisfactory results. In a very complicated case of intestinal obstruction which I attended with Garrod, this plan was eminently successful. A patient was admitted into the Hospital, having symptoms of internal strangulation ; he had at the same time double inguinal hernia, and a small umbilical rupture, as well as the remains of a fatty tumour, which had been partially removed from the abdominal wall many years previously. There were peritonitis with tympanites, stercoraceous vomiting, and much 'sdtal depression ; but, as there was no strangulation existing in any of the external hernim, and as there was no e’^ddence as to the precise locality of the internal mischief, it was not thought advisable to have recourse to operation. The patient was accordingly treated with opium, when, on the tenth day, the obstruction gave way and the bowels acted, the patient ultimately recovering. H. 0. Thomas of Liverpool, who has paid considerable attention to the subject of intestinal obstruction, and advocates the exclusive use of opium in aU forms of the affection, gives some valuable practical directions for the management of these cases. He insists that the drug must always be administered hypodermically, and in sufficient quantity to relieve all pain. The patient must of course be confined to the recumbent position. His diet must be limited to the smallest possible amount, and must be exclusively liquid. Arrowroot or ground rice and cooked with water, "with the addition of a little brandy or wine, is the food he chiefly recommends ; mutton or chicken broth being occasionally allowed as a change. Milk he has usually found to aggravate the symptoms. On small quantities of this food, given at intervals of two hours, a patient kept warm in bed and under the influence of opium may maintain life for many weeks without serious loss of strength. Should natural relief take place, the restricted diet and rest should be continued till all pain has passed away and the bowels have become regular. In cases of acute obstruction with severe vomiting, Thomas states that the patient experiences much relief from having the foot of the bed raised about ten inches on blocks, by which the act of vomiting is facilitated. He advises that the abdomen should be kept cool. If symptoms of collapse appear, he recom- mends the hypodermic injection of small doses of atropine. Inversion of the Patient is an empirical method of treatment that has