545 DISEASES OF THE NASAL CAVITY—OZ.ENA. j above the soft palate. The tliiid used should contain some antiseptic, as I Condy’s fluid, chloride of zinc (gr. j to 5]') ; a concentrated solution of boracic f acid, or sulphate of zinc (gr. ij to 53). After the nose has been thoroughly cleaned, G. Y. Poore recommends the following powder to be taken as snufl ; 1 biborate of soda, nitrate of bismuth, aa 5.I ; disulphate of quinine, gr. x ; iodoform, gr. v.—The snuff may be used two or three times a day, care being taken to wash it out thoroughly each day with the nasal douche. Simple Ozsena.—A very foetid discharge from the nose will occasionally occur in delicate or strumous children while cutting their teeth, and may j continue for several years. It may arise also after one of the acute specific fevers, especially scarlatina or measles. Sometimes it occurs at a later period, i chiefly iii women. The mucous membrane is swollen and red, but the disease is not necessarily attended by ulceration, although this may take place if the , foul discharge is allowed to accumulate. The Treatment consists in the use of the nasal douche, after which some astriugent application may be applied. Glycerine of tannin will often be found of great use. It may be applied by I means of a camers-hair pencil through the nostrils, and in most cases it is necessary also to pass a long brush on a bent stem from the mouth behind the soft palate, so as to reach the upper part of the pharynx and the posterior nares. In young children the teeth and stomach must be attended to. Chronic Thickening of the Schneiderian Membrane.—The mucous membrane of the nose is not unfrequeiitly chronically inflamed, especially in strumous children; that portion of the membrane coveriug the turbinate i bones becoming thick, soft, and vascular, and projecting like a broad fringe I from their surface. It is usually of a bright red colour, and covered with muco-pus without offensive odour. This swelling at all times produces snuffling and a peculiar intonation of voice, but increases in wet I weather, and then may become so great as seriously to obstruct the breathing. Abscess occasionally forms either in the mucous membrane or on the septum, and thus may lead to necrosis of the cartilages and bones, separation of these, flattening of the nose, depression of its bridge, and great deformity. These various forms of abscess, followed by necrosis, are commonly syphilitic, and result fi-om softening gummata beneath the mucous membrane or periosteum, and are associated with ulcers and a foul and foetid discharge, which has a tendency to cake upon the surface, forming dark and rugged crusts, constituting the condition known as Syphilitic Ozeena. A similar condition may be met with also w'ithout any evidence of syphilitic infection. Tin's most commonly occurs iu strumous subjects, and is usually associated with enlargement of .the glands at the angle of the jaw. Such a condition would be described as Strumous Ozama. Ulcemtion in the nasal cavity may in some cases be consequent upon the irritation of decayed teeth, producing disease of the antrum, and escape of morbid secretion from this into the cavity of the nose. The Treatment of these conditions must be conducted by the use of the nasal douche, followed by the application of solution of nitrate of silver, ' sulphate of copper, bichloride of mercury, one to two grains to the ounce ; or black wash. The snufl' above mentioned will often be found very useful. In syphilitic cases the general treatment of syphilis must be carried out, iodide of potassium or mercury being administered according to the condition of the