EXCISION OF JOINTS. 366 4. In adults in whom tlie bone lias attained its full length, the epiphysis may be more freely removed, if necessary. But the shaft should not be enci’oached upon if it can be possibly avoided, and especial care should lie | taken not to open the medullary canal. 0. The periosteum should bo carefully preserved, being stripped off the bone ‘ where it- is thickened and loosened, and manipulated very gently, so that its vitality may be impaired as little as possible. 6. It is of great importance not to confound bone softened by inflammation, but otherwise healthy, or roughened by the growth of osteophytes, with that which is carious or necrosed. 7. Skin, however redundant, should seldom if ever be cut away. The flaps, at first too large, soon shrink down to a proper size, and, if trimmed, are very f apt to become too scanty. 8. In cases of ordinary white swelling, the pulpy granulation-tissue occupy- , ing the site of the synovial membrane should be removed as thoroughly as ■ possible, partly by scraping with a sharp spoon and partly by forceps and \ scissors. 9. After the operation, if the skin were previously unbroken, the wound | may be treated by any of the antiseptic methods already described in the chapter on Wounds, the edges being brought together as accurately as pos- | sible and proper provision made for drainage by the insertion of tubes. If j sinuses exist and the discharges are not aseptic at the time of the operation, i an attempt should be made thoroughly to disinfect the wound. For this purpose the sinuses should be scraped with a sharp spoon and afterwards syringed through with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr.xx. to. 3].) or tincture of iodine (5ij. to Oij.). The whole wound should also be washed with the same solution, and afterwards treated by some antiseptic method. Thorough drainage and antiseptic treatment have of late years greatly diminished the death-rate of excisions in general, and especially of the knee. After the dressing is applied, the limb must be placed on a pillow or a well-padded splint according to the joint operated on. As healing progresses, great 1 attention must be paid to position. 10. The constitutional after-treatment should be nourishing or stimulating. . As there may be a great drain on the system should profuse suppuration set in, and a prolonged confinement to bed, the strength must be kept up under it by good diet. These operations are always serious; in many cases fully as much so as the amputation of a corresponding part, or even more so, owing to the large wound that is often inflicted in the more extensive division of the bones ; to the necessity of making the incisions in the midst of diseased or injured structures ; and to the more prolonged character of the after-treat- ment. 11. Should caries or necrosis return after the operation, secondary resection may be required. This I have done successfully at the hip, shoulder, and elbow-joints. In the elbow, in one case I performed a third resection with perfect success ; the two previous operations, which had been performed by other and different Surgeons, having failed. The success of these secondary 1 resections will necessarily be greatly dependent on the possibility of establish- : ing an improved state of the patient’s constitution.