LATERAL LITHOTOMY IX ROYS. 961 j,||[ have known this to oconr in several instances to Hospital Surgeons of skill land experience, the forceps being ])assed into this space under the supposition i'Df its being the bladder ; and in every case the patient died unrelieved. This jl\'Lccident is the more likely to happen, because in boys the parts are veiy fdelding, and readily admit of being ])ushed before the knife or finger ; and the jj inger may thus pass between the neck of the bladder and the pubes, or into |Jie loose areolar tissue l)etween the rectum and the bladder. The urethra joeing opened, urine escaiK's ; and the Surgeon introduces his finger into a dis- M, inct cavitv, which he believes to be the interior of the bladder, but which is ot so, but the recto-vesical space. The liability to the occurrence of this dis- rressing and fatal accident is materially lessened by injecting the bladder fully . ith tepid water, by which it is steadied and brought lower down. But in oung boys lithotomy is from this cause always an anxious operation. It ills to the lot of but few Surgeons of experience in lithotomy to pass through n active professional life without meeting with difficulty and anxiety in perating on boys ; and when such an untoward accident occurs, those will -e the most charitable in their judgment of others, who have themselves had le most experience in the operation, and have had most frequently to en- ounter its intrinsic difficulties. In order, then, to obviate the special dangers that have just been mentioned likely to occur in the lateral lithotomy of boys, the following points should 3 attended to. 1. The bladder should be injected with two or three ounces of tepid ater. 2. The knife should not be too narrow, as it has to make an opening of ifficient size to admit the forefinger of the operator in the child as in the :lult. Its point, when it has entered the groove of the staff, should be kept sry firmly pressed against its side, and carried somewhat upwards instead of rraight forwards. 3. When the knife is laid aside and the Sm-geon proceeds to pass his finger tto the bladder, he will find the following manoeuvre to facilitate this stej) of it.e operation very greatly, and lessen materially the danger of pushing the !ck of the bladder before him. Placing the nail of the left index in the groove the staff, he should not carry it along the convexity of this instrument, but, i' ding it over to the concave side, gently but steadily work his way along this :co the bladder. In doing so, he passes the finger between the roof of the ethra, whicli is a fixed part of the canal, and the staff, instead of between this d the floor of the urethra, which is mobile and yielding.' There is the ditional advantage that, by pressing down the staff as the finger goes above the urethra and neck of the bladder are somewhat dilated. 'C. Heath recommends the following plan, which will be found most ncient; as soon as the knife is Avithdrawn he inserts a strong director Avith landle like that of a staff set at a convenient angle. This is passed along 3 groove of the staff like the conductor in median lithotomy. The staff* is en Avithdrawn and the finger passed above the dii-ector, Avhich is at the same sne pressed doAvmvards. U. So soon as the finger enters the bladder and the staff is Avithdrawn, the cuius should be fixed with its point agjiinst the floor of the bladder, Avhere may then be seized easily by the forceps. Hifficultiks nuiUNG Lithotomy.—The difficulties before and during the VOL. II. 3 Q