443 SYMFTO.MS OF IIIP-JOINT DISEASE. position may be due to the direct irritation of the flexors and external rotators which lie more immediately in contact with the capsule than the extensors and internal rotators. When the limb is abducted, if the patient be put in the erect position, the pelvis is tilted in such a way that the anterior superior iliac spine of the diseased side will be found to be somewhat lower than its fellow; at the same time the sound limb is adducted to a degree corresponding to the abduction of the affected side, and thus the two limbs are brought parallel to each other. The knee is flexed, partly on account of the lowering of the side of the pelvis and the flexion of the hip-joint, and partly because by putting the toes only to the gi’ound, the elasticity of the foot is brought into play, and the pain prevented that would arise from the jar of the limb if the patient trod on the heel. The position assumed by the affected limb gives rise to an apparent elongation. Often in these cases of apparent lengthening there is actual shortening, but measurement from the anterior superior spinous process to the inner malleolus on each side shows the fallacy of this appearance. As the disease advances, the position of the limb undergoes a complete change ; the flexion remains and is increased, but at the same time the thigh becomes adducted and rotated inwards, so that the knee is carried against the lower part of the sound thigh. The cause of this position has been the subject of as much difference of opinion as that of the earlier displacement. In some cases it is undoubtedly due to destruction of the head of the bone and partial or complete dislocation. In these cases it is accompanied by dis- tinct shortening with displacement of the trochanter above N^laton’s line. (Yol. I., p. 596.) Much more commonly, however, it sets in long before there are any signs of extensive destruction of the head of the bone, and must then arise from other causes. Busch has suggested that it may be due to the erosion of the upper and posterior wall of the acetabulum, so constantly met with as one of the earliest destructive processes in hip-disease. In consequence of this the head is displaced upwards and backwards, so slightly at first as not to give rise to signs of dislocation, but enough when the ilio-femoral ligament is unsoftened to cause adduction of the limb. The altered position of the limb has been ascribed also to softening and yielding of the thinnest part of the capsule, the posterior and outer, while the inner and anterior part, which is much stronger, retains its toughness; to the external rotators becoming impli- cated early in the disease, as they lie most closely in contact with the capsule, and thus ceasing to oppose the adductors and internal rotators ; and lastly to the position assumed in bed by the patient when the diseased hip becomes too tender to bear any pressure. Probably all these causes are more or less con- cerned in the production of the adducted position, each acting in a different degree according to the circumstances of the case. When adduction sets in, the position of the pelvis undergoes a change. In order to bring the limbs parallel and in a straight line with the body, the patient must now raise the pelvis on the affected side and abduct the sound limb, thus giving rise to apparent shortening of the limb on the side of the disease. This may occur without any real, or with very slight, shortening, the amount of which can be ascertained only by measurement. The displacements of the pelvis and limb arc accompanied by corresponding changes in the position of the spine. Owing to the tilting of the pelvis, there 18 a lateral curve produced in the lumbar region, the concavity of which looks