852 Ol^ERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. REMOVAL OF PORTIONS OP THE INTESTINE, Tlic operation of removal of a ])ortion of the intefitine for disease, or, as it is termed, Enterectomy, or if performed on the colon, Cfolectomy, was fii-st attempted in 1888 by Keybard. Three inches of the colon wei-e removed, the divided ends united by suture, and the ])atieut recovered. In 1880 Dieffen- bach removed a gangrenous portion of the intestine, and sutured the ends of the gut successfully in a case of strangulated hernia. Excision of a portion of the intestine remained one of the curiosities of surgery till within the last few years, during which it has been frequently performed by Gussenbauer, Czerny, Billroth, Madelung, Juillard, and many other continental Surgeons; and by Bryant, Marshall, Treves, and others in this country. In 1882 Made- lung collected 88 cases in which the intestine had been united by suture after complete division, with or without removal of a diseased portion. Seven of these were accidental wounds, and of these three died, and in one the result was not recorded. In 44 it was undertaken for gangrene of the gut in strangu- lated hernia, and of these 23 died ; in three for internal strangulation, and all these died ; in 22 for the cure of artificial anus, with 8 deaths ; and in 9 for tumours of the gut, with three deaths. These statistics well illustrate the nature of the cases in which this operation has been undertaken, and the degree of success that has attended it. The cases of tumour most adapted for removal are annular papillomata or columnar epitheliomata of the great intes- tine, before they have formed connections with surrounding parts. Such tumours may often be recognized by the symptoms of stricture and by feeling the growth through the abdominal wall. Tumours of the small intestine are extremely rare, and could scarcely be diagnosed by external examination. The symptoms of the various conditions calling for enterectomy have already been sufficiently described, and it remains here only to give a brief description of the operation. If enterectomy is to be performed for artificial anus, the patient must be prepared by a few days limited diet and an aperient, followed by an enema to empty the bowel immediately before the operation. In other cases this is impossible. The general directions given on p. 756 must be carefully attended to. The patient must be thoroughly under the influence of the aneesthetic ; complete relaxation of the abdominal walls being a gi’eat assistance to the Surgeon. The incision must be made according to circumstances. In cases of tumom* it is most conveniently placed over the growth. I The abdomen having been opened with all antiseptic precautions, the part of the intestine to be removed must be di’awn well out so that not only the diseased part but two or three inches of the healthy bowel on each side may be clearly in view. A flat carbolized sponge may then be placed in the abdominal opening to prevent the protrusion of any more of the intestine The part of the gut that has been drawn out should then be laid on a cleai linen rag moistened with some warm antiseptic solution. A solution 0 carbolic acid (1 in 40) will be found the most efficient, and will not cause anj irritation of the gut. If these precautions are carefully taken, should any fmc« matter escape on dividing the gnt there is no danger of its entering the perito neal cavity, an accident Avhiidi would very probably be fatal. The next step 1 to apply a clamp about two inches distant on each side of the jiiece of gnt to b removed, partly to restrain luemorrhage and partly to prevent a co]3ious escap