HER XIA EXCYST ED IX THE TUX 1C A YAG IXA LIS. 815 I i y ! I t c I); •Hj 'When stmiijjulated, coiijxenital liernia docs not coniinunly admit of reduc- tion, and thus necessarily renders an operation imperative. The procedure is more commonly required for this kind of hernia in adults than in mlants. The operation is the same as that for oblique inguinal hernia, but the parts concerned are usually thinner, the tunica vaginalis serving for a sac ; liencc more caution than usual is required in these cases. The sac commonly con- tains a large quantity of fluid, usually clear, but often dark in colour, there being, in fact, a hydrocele conjoined with the hernia. The stricture Avill always be found in the neck of the sac, at which point it is often constricted by a i?harp narrow ring; hence it is useless in these cases to endeavour to relieve the strangulation, without laying open the sac and dividing its neck from within. The stricture, in fact, appears to be formed by the imperfect contrac- tion of that portion of the funicular prolongation of the peritoneum, which normally becomes obliterated before birth, and establishes the separation between the two serous sacs of the tunica vaginalis and of the peritoneum. As the congenital hernia is always external to the epigastric vessels, the section of the stricture may be done with perfect safety in a direction upwards and outwards, though, if the Simgeon should have any doubt as to the exact nature of the case, it will be better to divide the stricture directly upwards. The reduction of the contents of the hernia may in the adult be prevented by adhesions in the neck of the sac, or between them and the testis. I have found both the gut and omentum closely incorporated with this organ, and requiring some nice dissection to separate them. In operating upon infants of a very tender age, much caution will necessarily be demanded, on account (;f the tenuity of the coverings, their tension, and the small size of the aper- tures. The narrow ring forming the stricture may often in these cases l)e ruptured by passing a director under it and stretching it, and the use of the knife is thus avoided. The testis, as well as the spermatic cord, the veins of which are excessively turgid, come into view, and will usually be found much congested, and of a black or bluish-black colour’. A species of congenital hernia has been met rvith in the female, especially in children, in which the protru- sion takes place into the canal of Nuck, which invests the round ligament. In one instance, I have seen a double inguinal hernia in a girl of five years old. It is of extremely rare occurrence, and requires the same treatment as the corresponding disease in the male. Ency.sted Hernia of the Tunica Vaginalis, or In FANTILE Hernia, as it has been somewhat absurdly termed, occurs in those cases in which the funicular Fig. TOT.-iuftmtiic rieniiii. portion of the tunica vaginalis is partly obstructed by a septum, or l)y being converted into filamentous tissue, but in such a way as to leave a ])Ouch above, wliicli is protruded down beliiiid or into the tunica vaginalis, • so that it lies behind this cavity (Fig. 797). There arc no characters by whicli the encysted can be distinguished from the ordinary congenital hernia, if it should become strangulated, it must be borne in mind that during the opera- ‘ tion the tunica vaginalis will first be opened ; no hernia will be seen here, but the tumour lies behind this sac, and requires to be dissected into through the double serous layer of which it is comi)oscd. The stricture will probably be iu the neck, and requires to be divided in the usual way.