GLEET. 107 r i |feiiny mouths, or even years, then degenerating- into a Gleet. In proportion to i |e continuance of the afteotion the inflammatory symptoms subside, though || e sjxjcific and contagious character docs not disappear, and the affection may ' ntinue so long as the discharge keeps up. Hunter mentions the case of a rl who had been two years in the Magdalen Hospital, and who infected a "•i*son with whom she had connection immediately after she left that Institu- 011. The persistence of the contagion of gleet is, it is true, more marked in omen than in men. So long, however, as any imrulent discharge continues om the male urethra, though it be but a daily di-op, the patient must be looked •K)n as infectious. The severity and the continuance of goiion-ha'a are often opposed to one iother. Thus the disease is most severe in young and plethoric persons, and first attacks ; but it is most difficult of cure in strumous and phlegmatic !>nstitutious, more especially if there be a gouty or rheumatic tendency co- -isting:, and is very troublesome to remove after repeated attacks. I have ■>}served repeatedly that it is very apt to degenerate into a gleet in people who \e subject to chronic eczema. There is a form of chronic gleet which continues very persistently after an [tack of gonorrhoeal epididymitis. In these cases the* discharge is not so lUch urethral as testicular. It appears to proceed from the increased exuda- on fi-om the mucous membrane of the secretory and efferent structures of '.e testis, during the process of resolution of the inflammation. The length of time that the infection of gleet will continue in both sexes, ;it especially in the female, makes it somewhat difficult to say whether the )ison of gonorrhoea can be generated de novo, as it is not improbable that any individuals communicate the disease, believing themselves to be perfectly iired, though still suffering from slight gleet. ' Gleet.—The term gleet is applied to any mucous or muco-purulent discharge, hich is very small in amount and persists for an indefinite time unaccom- nnied by any other obvious symptoms. This condition is one which gives rise gi-eat mental uneasiness in many patients, and some varieties are, moreover, uble to terminate in strictme if unrelieved. The correct diagnosis of its dure and source is, therefore, of extreme importance. In the first place, it necessary to remember that in young men a somewhat copious flow of mucus apt to accompany an erection of the penis. "When, as is frequently the case, i erection occui*s just before waking in the morning, the mucus may be found !- ueing the lips of the urethra together, and may be mistaken by the patient 'T a gleet. Again, true gonorrhoeal gleet must not be confounded with pro- >atorrhcea (see p. 1055). Desormeaux has shown by means of the endoscope, i. at a tnie gonorrhoeal gleet is due to the presence of chronically inflamed itches of mucous membrane in the urethra. These patches are purplish or irk red in colour, whereas the nonnal urethra is a pale pink. Sometimes the i^rface of the mucous membrane is covered with small granulations, like those en on the conjuctiva in granular lids. This condition Desormeaux calls jgranular urethritis.” The patches may be multiple, but more often there is i ily one situated in the bulbous portion of the urethra. The symptoms of ch a condition are the following. A slight, sometimes almost colourless, metimes yellowish, discharge will be found glueing the lips of the urethra igether in the moniing. This discharge is little aficcted by diet or stimulants, it is usually greatly aggravated by connection. If during micturition the first l! f-