1091 SYMPTOMS OF STRICTURE. 5. The Ureters ure often more or less dilated. This is not, as was I i Di'inerly supposed, due to regurjjitation of urine, hut to obstruction to the ^'rifice of the ureter by the chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, ad the hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the bladder ; the force that dates the ureter being the force of secretion from the kidney. The fui’ther L aanges that occur in the pelvis and in the kidneys arc fully described in II hapter LX VI I. Symptoms.—The amount of constitutional disturbance set up by a ricture will vary gi’eatly in difterent cases. In many, and indeed in most -Hstauces, it is not very gi'eat. The extent to which the constitution is ifluenced will generally be in proportion to the tightness and duration of the ricture ; but it is surprising how much constitutional irritation is set up in )me systems by a stricture, even though it be not very tight. The inter- '^rence with the free flow of urine ultimately causes secondary mischief in the -idney, the nature and the symptoms of which have been fully described in hapter LXIL, to which I must refer the reader. In some cases the consti- :itional symptoms are rather of a nervous character; the patient suffering not '.ily great pain in micturition, but being seized with rigors, followed by nervous i|rrostration, each time the urine flows over the tender and irritable surface. The Local Signs of stricture are always well marked, are very miequivocal, -.ad are dependent simply on the mechanical obstacle presented by the con- '.•acted urethra to the free escape of the urine. The disease usually com- lences with the retention in the m-ethra of a feAV drops of mane after evacua- on of the contents of the bladder ; these escape and wet his clothes. The ;atient finds that he has to pass urine more frequently than usual, both by ;ight and day ; there is some straining, perhaps a slight gleety discharge, and feeling of weakness about the genital organs. The stream of urine has baanges impressed upon it during its passage through the strictime, by which .“S shape and direction are modified ; thus, it may become forked, scattered, n.visted, fan-like, or be discharged in a double ciUTent—one projected directly arwards, the other dropping perpendicularly downwards. There is usually ut little pain in micturition, and such as there is ocem’s during this aet, and •3ases as soon as it is completed. As the disease advances, these signs eecessarily become more marked, until they may terminate in complete |tetention; they, however, often come on in a very insidious manner, and Ihen the patient seeks advice he is found to be already the subject of a very ,ght and intractable stricture ; indeed, in some cases, the first circumstance fiat directs the attention of the patient to his complaint is the sudden 3cun’ence of retention of urine. Examination of the Patient for Stricture.—In all cases of suspected -ricture, the Surgeon should, if possible, see the patient ptiss water before sing an instrument. He will thus be able to judge of the actual amount of bstruction. It sometimes happens that the canal, though not greatly an-owed, is tortuous and indurated, so that an instrument enters with great ifficulty, although the patient passes a fair stream of urine. Such a case light readily be mistaken for a very tight stricture if the examination is coni- lenced by attempting to pass an instrument. The existence of a stricture lan however be determined with certainty only by the introduction of an in- tniment. In exploring the canal in a suspected case, two ])oints have to be •scertained, the existence of a stricture, and its degi’ce of tightness. \ A -2