SPECIAL IIERNLE. 822 the very remote one of the wound of the obturator artery, when it takes the anomalous course round the inside of the neck of the sac. Guthrie states that he has known some of the best Surgeons in London to lose patients by hEemorrhagc after the operation for femoral hernia. This -accident, however, is of extremely rare occun-ence, and might in a great measure be guarded against by slightly blunting the edge of the hernia-knife before dividing the stricture, so that the tense fibrous bands constituting the constriction would yield, while the artery Avould probably escape, being pushed before the blunted edge. I have, however, more than once seen blood well up rather freely on the division of the stricture ; but it has ceased spontaneously, and I have never known it to give any trouble. If the division of the stricture be limited to a line or two, there will be but little danger of wounding the vessel, even when it takes the abnormal course. The best means of arresting the bleeding from a wound of an abnonnal obturator can hardly be said to be certainly determined. A. E. Barker, to whom this accident happened in operating on a patient in University College Hospital successfully arrested the haemorrhage by pressure, the patient dying from gangrene of the gut four days after. In a case recorded by A. H. Corley, of the Jervis Street Hospital, in Dublin, the bleeding was very free, but was easily controlled by passing the fore finger into the wound and grasping the abdominal wall between it and the thmnb. A curved needle was accordingly passed in through the ring and out immediately above Poupart’s ligament, and a twisted suture ajDplied around it. The haemorrhage ceased, and did not recur. The patient died from other causes, and the 'posi-morUm examination showed the obturator arising from the epigastric and cut opposite the neck of the sac. The two ends had retracted one inch apart, the distal having gone so far in the direction of the obturator foramen that any attempt to reach it would have been out of the question. The needle was found to have passed imme- diately in front of the proximal end, crossing the trgck of the artery, but not actually including it ; yet the traction so exerted seems to have been enough to close the vessel, as it was obliterated by a clot. The distal end contained no clot. Bartley, in the Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, 1881, records a case in which he successfully ligatured the vessel after enlarging the wound sufficiently to bring it into view. The patient recovered. Barker, who collected the records of 16 cases of this accident, states that in 6 a ligature was applied. Probably the best means would always be to enlarge the womid up to Poupart’s ligament, and attempt torsion or ligature. The artery might also be exposed by an incision above Poupart’s ligament, like that for ligature of the external iliac by Cooper’s method, if simple enlargement of the wound did not bring it into view. If these means fail acupressure or pressure may be resorted to. It will generally be found that the intestine contained in the sac of a femoral hernia is dark-coloured and tightly nipped ; it requires to be treated in accord- ance with the general principles that guide us in the management of hernia. UMBILICAL HERNIA. By umbilical hernia or cxomphalus is meant a protrusion through the lun- bilical aperture. It occurs either in children or in adults. Umbilical Hernia in Children is sometimes congenital. At an early period of foetal life, a great part of the intestinal canal lies without the abdo-