DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1092 The Existence of a Stricture is best determined by passing a soft conical French bougie about No. 8 (English scale). It must l)e slightly Avarmcd and well oiled. This will pass readily, unless the canal be distinctly constricted, when it will be arrested at the narrow ix)int. In this exploration too small an instrument must not be used, lest it hitch in the fossai of the urethra or against the verumontanum, and this accidental arrest be mistaken for the obstruction produced by a stricture ; or it may pass through the stricture, and thus mislead the Surgeon. The existence of a stricture having been ascertained, the next point is to determine its defjreeof tightness. This is best done by withdraAviug the instrument previously used, and then introduc- ing a smaller one about the size of the stream of urine that the patient passes. If this fail to enter the stricture, a smaller one still must be used, until that size is reached, which can be introduced with but a moderate degree of force. In this way the existence, the seat, and degree of tightness of the stricture, are ascertained. A soft instrument should always be used by preference for this preliminary examination, as it causes less pain, and with the most ordinary skill and care must first be determined by carefully passing a graduated “ catheter d hovlef and noting the exact moment at which the urine commences to flow. The graduated olive-headed sound is then passed, and slowly withdrawn. If the hitch or cling be felt between one inch and one and three-quarters, the stricture is in the membranous part. If between one and three-quarters and | three inches, it is in the bulbous portion. For the purpose of measuring these slight strictures, Otis, of New York, has invented an instrament which he callSj the “ urethrometer ” (Fig. 925). It consists of a straight tube, the end of which can be dilated into a sort of fenestrated sphere, and the size to which it is dilated is registered on a small dial on the handle. The instrument can be readily introduced into the bladder, if necessary, but there is no advantage in so doing. When in the urethra, behind the stricture, the bulb is gradually expanded till it is just held, but not tightly grasped. It is then drawn steadily it is impossible to do the patient any injury with it. There is no doubt that information as to the length, degvee of indm-ation, and form of the narrowing, may be gained by the expe- rienced Surgeon by means of a metal bougie: but the knowledge thus gained is not sufficient to counter-balance the greater ease and safety of a soft instrument. Conical-headed Sound. Pig. 923.— Fig. 924.— Olive-headed Sound. The slighter narrowings of the m’ethra are not easily recognized by the means just described. For this purpose the conical or olive- headed bougie (Figs. 923, 924) AnU be found most useful. The conical shape of this instru- ment enables it to j>ass readily towards the bladder, but on Avithdrawing it the shoulder hitches on any narroAV part. The instrument should be graduated in inches, so that the exact distance of the stricture from the orifice can be readily determined. If it be desired to determine more accurately the seat of the stricture, the distance of the orifice of the bladder fi'om the meatus externiis