DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1128 a naevus or cork-screw needle, a full half inch from the freshened edge of the fistula, and brought out through a corresponding point on the other side of the fistula, without having transfixed the mucous membrane of the bladder. As many threads as necessary having been passed in this way, a piece of silver wire about eighteen inches long is attached to the silk, which is then drawn out, leaving the wire to occupy its place, so that its centre corresponds to the fissure, and both ends hang out of the vagina. Sims then passes the upper- most free ends through holes made in a narrow leaden bar, on which they are clamped, by having split shot fixed upon them in the same way as is done on a fishing line. The undamped wires are now drawn down until the bar is pulled close to the upper suture holes ; and a second clamp is then fixed to these ends and is pushed up against the lower sutm-e apertures. In this way the edges of the fistula are brought and held together on each side by a clamp, which may be allowed to remain in from seven to ten days. The clamps may rig. 945.—Hollow Sutiu'e Needle. then be removed by clipping off the flattened shots from the anterior one, which is thus detached from its bed. The posterior one, with the wires attached, may then be hooked up, pushed backwards, and lifted out of the vagina with forceps. Instead of a clamp, Simpson used a splint made of annealed iron wire, which surrounds and supports the tissues around the fistula. In many cases, however, where the fistula is of but moderate size, the clamp and splint may be dispensed with, and the edges of the opening brought together with the suture-wires only. In the after-treatment, especial attention is required : and here the great point is to prevent contact of urine with the edges of the fistula. With this view a catheter should be introduced, and worn in the bladder, so that no urine may collect in this organ. For this purpose, Sims has invented a very ingenious catheter, represented in the annexed cut (Fig. 94G), which may be worn with more comfort, and Avith less chance of slipping, than the ordinary instrument. After the patient has been put to bed, and the catheter introduced, a full opiate should be given, and continued throughout the treat- ment, with a view of preventing the action of the boAArels, a point on which Sims lays much stress, and to which the success of his operations may be in a great measure attributed. It is very seldom that they require to be opened for ten or fifteen days, provided the patient be kept on a suitable diet. During this treatment the catheter may be removed once or twice a day, in order to be cleansed and to be kept free from phosphatic or mucous accumulations ; and free ablutions of the external genitals by sponge or syringe and warm water Fig. 946.—Sims’s Catheter.