86 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. than a pound of dark clotted blood, and the anterior interosseous artery was ' found to coniinunicate with it by an opening a cpiarter of an inch in length. The vessel was successfully ligatured above and below the opening, and the | boy recovered. At the time of the operation there was a loud double aortic ' murmur. i Acxite Endarteritis.—Comil and Eanvier describe under this name an ' affection of the inner coat, met with chiefly in the aorta, but occasionally also in smaller vessels, especially near wounds. It is characterized, to the naked eye, by prominent patches formed by a swelling of the intima. They are circular or oval in outline, and seldom exceed half an inch in diameter, though both their form and size may be altered by the coalescence of neigh- bouring patches. They are pale pink in colour, and semi-transparent or opalescent ; in consistence, they are soft and elastic, almost gelatinous. The ; internal surface has often lost its polish, in consequence of the irregularity of j the swelling, but its endothelial covering is usually intact. The middle coat ; beneath the patch appears usually to be somewhat swollen, and this condi- tion more marked in the adventitia. Microscopic examination shows that the swelling is due to an accumulation of small cells, either round or slightly irregular in outline, between the fibres of the sub-endothelial connective tissue | ; and the elastic layers of the inner coat. These cells have a distinct nucleus surrounded by a small quantity of protoplasm, and show signs of active growth. Cornil and Eanvier believe they are produced by proliferation of the original cells of the part. The swelling of the external coat is found to be due to the presence of numerous cells of new formation separating the fibres of the connective tissue. The conditions under which acute endarteritis occur are not clearly deter- mined, but as every intermediate condition between it and the chronic form j to be immediately described, is to be met with, sometimes even in the same j; vessel, it seems to be nothing more than the same process increased in |i intensity. Chronic Endarteritis, Arteritis Deformans, Atheroma.—This is by | far the most common disease to which arteries are liable, in fact, it is very | rare after middle life to find it completely absent in the larger vessels. It occurs in its most marked form in the aorta and the large arteries of the neck, abdomen, the upper parts of the limbs and the base of the brain. It j is less commonly seen in the smaller vessels, in which the muscular coat is more fully developed. Chronic endarteritis first appears as pale yellowish patches or streaks, smooth, slightly elevated above the surface, and evidently seated in the deeper layers of the inner coat. They are irregular in outline, their long diameter is usually in the line of the vessel’s course, but they show a special predilection i for the mouths of the branches leaving the main trunk, round which they form annular elevations. Their outline becomes subsequently more iiregular by the coalescence of neighbouring patches. As the disease advances, the | patches become more elevated, often reaching a line or more in thickness. H At this stage they are grey, semi-transparent or opalescent, and inelastic, some- tt times almost cartilaginous in appearance and consistence. This condition is, | however, speedily followed, before the patches have reached more than half an W inch in diameter, by a change to an opaque yellow colour, the alteration in tint commencing in the central parts. This change is due to fatty degeneration Bi