MODIFICxiTIONS OF FiIIINOrLASTY—OSTEO-RIIINOPLASTY. 6ii , oozing have ceased before the cut edges arc brought into contact, and that ; no tension nor constriction be exercised. A. principal source of failure in : the operation, or in the result so far as concerns the after-appearance of the I patient is gangrene of the flap, in whole or in part, arising from the root I being too narrow or too tightly twisted, or from the flap being too roughly j handled in its dissection. So also, if it be cut too small and not pi’operly j supported afterwards, the result will not be very satisfactoiy. Other acci- 1 dents occasionally happen; thus, erysipelas may occur early, destroying j the vitality of the flap, or come on at a later period, causing the new I nose to slough under the attack of inflammation, which it has not sufficient vitality to resist, as happened in one of Liston’s earlier cases ; or the new nose may be destroyed by a return of the lupus which proved destructive to , the old one. Htemorrhage also may occur from underneath the flap. In the last case operated on by Liston just before his death, and which was com- pleted by Morton at University College Hospital, hemorrhage to the extent of more than a pint took place on the ninth day, without any evident cause, from under the flap, and could be arrested only by plugging. Further, the operation is not without its dangers. Dieffenbach lost two patients out of six oil whom he operated in Paris ; their constitutions having probably been I in an unfavourable state. The operation as just described will usually be attended by very satisfactory i results. Of late years some modifications have been introduced into it. Thus I Langenbeck recommends that the periosteum should be dissected up fr'om the I frontal bone together with the skin-flap, in order that, by the after-develop- I ment of osseous tissue, a firmer and better organ should be left. It has been I feared by some Surgeons that exposure of the frontal bone, by stripping I off its periosteum, would jirobably be followed by necrosis. Experience has, I however, shown that this fear is groundless, as, indeed, might have been I inferred fr’om analogous conditions often observed in injuries of the head, I in which large portions of the pericranium may be detached without the I exposed bone losing its vitality. But it appears to me that there are more I serious objections to “ Osteo-Phinoplasty,” and that it is an unnecessary com- I plication of the operation to turn down the pericranium in the nasal flap, I for two reasons. First, the pericranium is very firmly attached to the I bone, and very loosely to the integumental structures, which glide over it. I From the bone it is not detached without difficulty and a certain amount of I scraping, by which its vitality is likely to be impaired to so gveat a degree I that it would be of no service as a bone-producing organ in the new nose, and I would not improbably, when twisted down, slough from iusufiicient vascular I supply. Secondly, even if the pericranial lining of the new nose were to I retain its bone-producing power, it seems to mo that an osseous layer inside I that organ would rather be a disadvantage than of service, and would I certainly expose it to gi'eatcr risk of fr’acture and other injury than if such I brittle material as a thin shell of bone did not enter into its composition. I The operation practised by Ollier appears to mo to be less happy than I many of that excellent Surgeon’s suggestions. It consists in cutting down I the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and then bonding it across so as ■ to form a kind of bridge, on which to sustain the tcgumento-i)cricranial ■ flap deflected from the forehead. But by doing this the lateral sui)i)orts I to the bridge of the new nose are removed, and necrosis of the bent or rather I R u 2