WFLAMyfATfON AXD ABSCESS OF THE PROSTATE. J053 CHPATER LXXL DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. I The prostate is subject to Acute and Chronic Inflammation, to Hypertrophy, i id occasionally to Atrophy, Malignant Disease, Tubercle, and the formation ^ Calculi. PROSTATITIS. ;t 3 Acute luflammatiou of the Prostate, or Prostatitis, very rarely ;cur.s as an idiopathic aifection. When met with, it is usually the result of ouorrhoea. or of the use of stricture-instruments, more especially in middle- tfcd men. Symptomb.—These are—deeply-seated dull pain, with heat and weight in the ►Brimeum, a frecpient desire to pass urine, and very great and spasmodic pain xcompamdng the act ; in fact, the irritability that is set up about the neck of lie bladder is perhaps the most marked and distressing feature hi the disease, i'hese symptoms are, however, common to various inflammatory affections of le m-iuary organs, and they can be distinctly referred to the inflamed prostate inly by rectal exploration. On introducing the finger into the gut, the rfostate will be found much enlarged and exquisitely tender to the touch ; and lie patient often suffers considerably from the pressure of the inflamed organ {poll the rectum during defecation. Treatment. —This should be of an actively antiphlogistic character, so as ) prevent, if possible, the foimiation of abscess. The perinmum must be Duppc*d or well leeched ; wann hip-baths and poppy fomentations assiduously employed; and salines with antimony administered. In this way, the for- iiation of abscess witliiu or around the prostate may, in many cases, be r re vented. Moiphia suppositories may be used to relieve pain. Prostatic Abscess may form either as a consequence of acute inflam- mation running on to the suppurative stage, and in this way it is not very ! nfi’equently met with as a complication of gonorrhoea ; or it may occur with om]>aratively little antecedent inflammation—as sometimes happens in pymmia. rr if the organ be accidentally bruised during lithotrity. In these cases, I'bscess perhajis as frequently forms in the areolar envelope as in the organ ~elf. Idioiiathic suppuration of the prostate, irrespective of any of the above •auses, is of rare occurrence ; but it may occur in individuals of broken ealth, the matter then usually accumulating in large quantity, and discharging •jlf into the bladder. Symptoms.—When inflammation of the prostate terminates in abscess, rigora, nth strangury, and perhajis retention of urine, occur. In many cases the lerinaeum becomes brawny ; in others, tenderness of the gland and dee{> uctuatioii may be felt through the rectum. When left to itself, the abscess tnost usually gives way into the urethra or neck of the bladder ; but it may, ‘SjKicially when occurring in the prostatic capsule, open externally into the