875 ULCER AND FJSSURE OF THE ANUS. I I 1 I i I I [ 3 9 0 i; 1 9 7 t: e if u '7 a Lacerateil Feritia’um, the opevation for that eonditioii, described at p. 871, Vol. I., must he performed, and the edg'es of the fistula, being deeply ]>ared, brought together at the same time. Sometimes in these cases it happens that the periiimnm unites, leaving an aperture al)ove this in the recto-vaginal septum ; if this aperture be but small, it may be closed by its edges being touched from time to time ■with the actual cautery ; if it be large, so as to allow the introduction of the finger, 1 believe that it is generally useless to attempt to close this aperture by itself ; but the perimeum should again be divided, and the whole operation reiieated, AVhen the recto-A'aginal fistula is of a syphilitic origin, there is usually some degree of stricture of the rectum associated with it, and an extensively excoriated and diseased state of the vaginal mucous membrane. In these cases the sufferings of the patient are often very great, and the only means of relief open to the Surgeon is the performance of colotomy. Entero-vesical Fistulae.—A fistulous communication may be established between the intestine at some point above the rectum and the bladder. The fistula usually forms between the sigmoid flexure of the colon and the upper and left lateral part of the bladder. It is possible that the small intestine may be the seat of this fistula, but most certainly such an occurrence is rare. In these entero-vesical fistulm there is usually a long antecedent history pointing to cancer of the intestinal wall. Some obscure hardness, Avith ' tendeniess or occasional shooting pains, is then met with, and suddenly the patient observes in his urine some dark offensiA'e deposit, which, on examina- tion, proves to be fmculent matter, with or without the escape of flatus by the urethra. In other cases, after more than usual pain, with rigors and the con- stitutional symptoms indicative of suppuration, the urine will be found to be loaded with pus of a stinking character. In a feAv days fmces will appear in it, and flatus pass through the urethra. In either case, adhesion has formed between the intestine and the bladder. Perforation takes place, and ■ the intestinal contents escape either directly into the bladder or through the cavity of an intervening abscess. The bladder-irritation is usually at first but trifling; but after a time cystitis is developed and phosphates deposited. The treatment in the early stages should consist in clearing out the boAvels with castor-oil, and then locking them up for 10 or 14 days with opium, so as ■ to give the fistula a chauce of closing. Should this fail, the bladder must be washed out twice daily, and if the patient’s sufferings increase so as to render life a burden,colotomy—a palliative measure—may be resorted to, or ej'^stotomy may be done, and thus a wider outlet for fteces, urine, and flatus, afforded through the ])enna?um than the ui-ethm ])ermits. ULCEK AND FISSURE OF THE ANUS. This disease, though trivial in point of size and in its pathological relations, is of great ]>ractical importance, on a(;count of the excessive local pain and great constitutional iiritation to which a patient labouring under it is often subject, ricer and fissure commonly exist tf)gether in this situation, though it by no means unfrc(juently ha})pens that the two conditions occur separately. The ulcer is usually of small size, seldom larger than a silver three-pence, of a <Ircnlar or longitudinal shape, situated IjctAVcen the folds of the mucous mem- brane in the nppei- part of the anus, or j'atber the lower part of the rectum,