495 TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE. and contracted ; and those very evils arc produced by the mechanician which it is the object of the Surg-eon to avert or correct. 'When the affection is further advanced, though the spine still continue flexible, if there be dcci<led projection of the ribs on one side, and the shoulder and hip be prominent, Avith apparent difference in the length of the limbs, and much impairment of the general health, more decided measures of treatment must be had recourse to. In these cases, as in those just described, the con- stitutional powers must be carefully attended to on ordinary medical principles ; iron, and good living, with fresh air, being the basis of the treatment. At the same time that we endeavour to improve the strength of the system in this way, and that of the muscles of the back, especially by cold bathing and fric- tions, it is essential to adopt means to take off the weight of the head and shoulders, and to prevent its continuing to keep up and to increase the deformity. This may be done in two Avays : by keeping the patient in the recumbent position, or by alloAAung her to go about, Avearing proper supports. The recumbent position in the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine, though a valuable means as an adjunct to other measures, has been greatly abused, by being employed as an exclusive plan. This should not be, except when the patient is unable to stand or walk with comfort, as happens in extreme cases, AAdien it may be necessary to confine her for a time to this position, until the proper muscular poAver has been restored by the syste- matic use of electricity or other means. These instances, however, are very rare ; too much so to constitute the rule in the treatment. Whenever the recumbent position is employed, the prone seems to me far preferable to the supine, for reasons mentioned when speaking of angular curvature of the spine (p. 428) ; and the best couch for the purpose is certainly Verral’s. The patient should be kept on this during the intervals of exercise, not being allowed to sit even at meals or to stand ; she will A’ery soon become accustomed to a position that at first appears constrained, and Avill, pro- bably, speedily be able to sleep in it. The Mechanical Contrivances constructed for the purpose of taking the weight of the head, neck, and upper extremities off from the Aveakened spine, are of A'ery various forms, and have had much ingenuity expended in their construction. They all have three principal objects, however much their details may A^ary ; viz. : 1, to form a broad basis of support round the pelvis, by means of a strong AA ell-fitting band ; Fig. ciS.—Spinal support for Ijiter.il curvature. 2, to carry off the Aveight of the head and upper extremities from the spine by means of lateral crutches, which transmit it to this band ; and 3, to influence the couA'exities of the spinal curve by means of movable plates, acted upon by rack-and-pinion or screw power. The best of these mechanical coutriArances for supporting the Aveight of the head and shoulders, is the apparatus represented in the accompanying