REDUCTION IN MAES—TREATMENT. 803 larger than usual, ami somewhat rounded. On pushing the finger into the canal, tliis will be found (piite empty; but in some cases, on deep pressure with the finger, especially when the patient stands up or coughs, a rounded tumour may be indistinctly felt behind the ordinary seat of the hernia. In many cases, however, the most careful manual examination Avill fail to detect any pro- minence of this kind. Treatment.—If, after careful examination of such a case as this, in which the symptoms of strangulation continue, the Surgeon learn by the previous history that a tumour has existed, but that it has suddenly gone up ; and further, if he find that the seat of the supposed hernia presents the negative evidence that luis just been described, it will then be necessary for him to push his inquiries a step further by an exploratory incision. Such an incision as this may first be • used as a simple means of diagnosis, and, as it docs not penetrate the peritoneal i cavity, there is no danger attending it; and if the hernia be found, it will serve ; the purpose of the ordinary incision required in the operation, and may be used ; for the relief of the strangulation. The first incision should be made so as to (expose the abdominal ring; if this be found peculiarly round and open, it would ; increase the probability of the existence of the condition sought for. The i inguinal canal must next be laid open, and the parts contained within it 5 carefully examined. If no appearance of hernial sac be found, but the cord be •• distinctly and clearly seen, still further presumptive evidence will be afforded t of the reduction having been effected in mass ; for, if the hernia have been put 1 back in the usual way, the sac will necessarily be left in the canal, and will ’^preserve its usual relations to the cord. This supposition will be strengthened ..iilmost to a certainty if it be found that the “ condensed cellular capsule imme- ■ diately investing the sac,” as it is termed by Luke—in other words, the con- I densed and laminated subserons areolar tissue—has been left in the canal. An • opening made into this will, as that Surgeon observes, allow the finger to be brought into contact with the hernial tumour itself. Should, however, this condensed areolar tissue not be found, it must not be concluded that no hernia ■is present, inasmuch as this investment may have been accidentally absent. /The finger should then be passed into the internal ring, which will probably be found open, and should be carried from side to side ; the tumour, if present, will be detected lying externally to the peritoneum behind the abdominal wall. When found, it must be brought down into the canal by enlarging the ring ; it must then be opened, its contents examined, and the stricture in its neck .livided. The intestine that has been so strangled must be dealt with in iccordance with the rules already laid down. If the tumour cannot be readily wrought down so as to admit of an examination of it and its contents, the patient should l>e desired to make some propulsive efforts, so as to cause it to protrude. If it still do not come down, it must be opened, and the stricture cautiously livided within the abdomen with a sheathed bistoury. Treatment of Strangulated Hernia by Aspiration.—This operation, in vhich it is attempted to render a strangulated hernia reducible by withdrawing ts gaseousand fluidcontents bymeans of the pneumatic aspirator, was introduced nto jjracticc by Dieulafoy, and is thus performed : An aspirator of the form presented in Fig. 9.S, page 2:58, Vol. L, is to be preferred, and the needle must lot e.xceed Trr inch in diameter. Tdie aspirator having beeu proved to be in vorking order, and the needle clear, a vacuum is made by withdrawing the listen. A few drops of water may be left in the bottom of the cylinder, so that :5 V 2