UBINARY CALCULUS AND LITJIOTRITY. lOIO twenty years of age, is fully as high as, if not higher, than what occurs in lateral lithotomy, and far exceeds that resulting from lithotrity. ApplicaUlity.—When we compare perineal lithotrity with ordinary lithotrity, or lithotomy, whether lateral or median, it presents ])ositive disadvantages in many cases, no advantage in others, and appears to be applicaljle only to a few exceptional instances. In cases of small or medium-sized calculi, the results of ordinary lithotrity are infinitely more satisfactory ; and no object can be gained by complicating this operation with an incision into the urethra. For ordinary calculi, too large for lithotrity, the lateral and supra-pubic operations offer fully i! as successful if not more successful results than those which have heeu | obtained by perineal lithotrity ; and very few Surgeons would, when once i they had seized the stone, trouble themselves to break it up before extract- ing it, or subject their patient to the delay in the operation that always occurs, j even when the stone is accidentally broken after seizure—a delay occasioned ^ by the prolonged manipulations which then become necessary, and which are ! not without their own special dangers. The only cases, indeed, in which I can conceive that perineal lithotrity would li be adopted by a Siu’geon, are those in which he has to do with a very large soft '! phosphatic calculus. As such a stone almost inevitably crumbles down when seized before extraction, it might possibly be as well to convert into a step of : | a regular operation that occurrence which Avould otherwise happen as an acci-i' | dent in ordinary lithotomy. Should it become necessary, after ordinary ;; lithotrity, to cut a patient for the speedy extraction of the fragments, Dolbeau’s : method of dilating the neck of the bladder, and his small forceps, might be , j found useful. i COMPARISON BETWEEN LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. Lithotomy and lithotrity differ so entirely from one another in principle and detail, that it is useless to attempt to establish a comparison between the different steps of these two operations. It is, however, a question of the very first importance and interest to ascertain by which operation a patient can most safely have a calculus removed from his bladder. In determining this point, it is necessary not only to make a comparison between the general results of cases that have been subjected to the two procedures, but more especially to ascertain those circumstances that influence the result of each operation in particular cases—to determine, in fact, in what cases lithotomy, and in what lithotrity, holds out the best prospect to the patient. It is, I think, in the highest degree unpractical to enter into a discussion as to which should be the general method of treatment in cases of stone. That Surgeon shows his practical skill the best, who chooses which operation is most appropriate to the particular case before him, and who knows best how to apply the operation that he selects most wisely. Both operations have been re- duced to great simplicity and certainty ; but neither should be exclusively practised. It is undoubtedly the duty of the Surgeon to make him^lf familiar with the practice of both, and to adopt that one which j)roniiscs best in the particular instance with which he has to do. In all cases in which it is practicable, and in all cases even in which the chances of the tAVO operations are evenly balanced, lithotrity should as a matter of I I I I h U ik tt ft