COMPARISOX OF MEDIAN AND LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 981 SI stone inch in diameter; such a stone must citlier be cut or torn out. Now, what space liave we in the median operation for the introduction of the forceps and the extraction of a large stone ? Here, I think, is tlie weak point 1 of tlie median operation. In it the incision is made, and all the manipulation is practised, towards the apex of the narrow triangle formed by the rami of the pubic bones. The base of this triangle is represented by a horizontal line corresponding to the level of the membranous portion of the urethra, and consequently does not occupy the widest part of the perinmum; it is formed by the lower portion of the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament, the space behind it being filled up by the rectum and its muscles, and the ischio- rectal fat. The ligament forms a barrier stretching across the perinmum, which cannot be depressed, and requires to be divided laterally into the ischio-rectal fossa before a stone of any considerable magnitude can be removed. It was in consequence of the extensive bruising and laceration of , these structures,, and the difficulty experienced in bringing the stone through . them, that the old Marian operation fell into disuse. [I In performing the median operation there are three points, or rather planes, 1 ■ of obstruction, between the surface and the interior of the bladder. The first is occasioned by the muscles of the perinmum, and, perhaps, also by the under l i portion of the deep perineal fascia. In the lateral operation we cut across this plane, and lay open the ischio-rectal fossa, giving abundance of room for the manipulation of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, along the base of the triangle formed by the rami of the iscliium and pubes. But in the alj median we have to extract towards the summit of this space, at the apex of a li ; narrow triangle, having the muscular structui’es forming a tense bar along its I 4 base, and offering a material obstacle to the introduction of the forceps and the -extraction of the stone. The second obstacle lies in the prostate ; but, as it is easily removable by dilatation, it cannot be considered a serious one. The third, the deepest and most important, is situated at the neck of the : bladder. We find here a narrow tense ring beyond the prostate; and this bar remains intact in spite of the dilatation and laceration to which the prostate ihas been subjected. On introducing the finger, we shall feel it grasped tightly : by this ring. I have found, by experiments on the dead subject, that this ; inner ring of the neck of the bladder cannot be expanded to a size more than •sufficient for the extraction of a calculus of one inch in diameter without laceretion or incision : and its laceration or rupture is well known to bo one of the most dangerous and fatal accidents in lithotomy. It is in consequence of the obstacle offered by this, that the median operation is not available for The extraction of large calculi. A calculus over one and a half inch in diameter cannot be extracted by the median operation without the employ- ment of gi’eat violence. But, though much force is usually required in order to extract a calculus of even moderate size through this tense ring at the neck of the Iffadder, it is an undeniable fact that serious consequences seldom follow the violence so used, and that a degree of force, Avhich would be fatal in lateral lithotomy, may be employed without danger in the extraction of a calculus by the median operation. Jn this respect the extraction of a calculus by the median ojxiration resembles the removal of one through the dilated urethra of the female; the great point in favour of the median over the lateral procedure, and the cause of its compai’ative safety, being that the