864 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. descending colon, it becomes more common in the sigmoid flexure, and very frequently occurs at about the junction of tliis ]Jortion of the colon with the rectum. In the rectum itself it is most commonly found either at the upper part, from four to six inches above the anus, or else a little above that apertm-e. The frequent passage of small {quantities of liquid faeces, with occasional constipation, should always lead to a suspicion of stricture. It is of three kinds : 1, the simple, dependent on simple thickening of the intestinal coats ; 2, the sijphiliUc; and 3, the mali/jnant, consisting of a can- cerous growth of the walls of the gut. 1. Simple or Fibrous Stricture, though occasionally occurring in the transverse or descending colon, is most frequently met with in the sigmoid flexure or at its junction with the rectum, or at the upper part of this gut, from four to six inches from the anus. This form of stricture of the large intestine commonly occurs in elderly people, and with special frequency in women. It is usually the result of long-continued diarrhoea or of chronic dysentery. In some cases the narrowing is really caused by inflammatory thickening outside the gut, especially in wmmen who have suffered fr:om pelvic cellulitis after labour. This form of stricture is seated just vdthin reach of the finger. Symptoms.—The symptoms of simple stricture of the rectum consist at first of some difficulty in defmeation, the patient being obliged to strain at stool. The fmces will also appear to be flattened, narrowed, or furrowed, and in many cases, more especially as the stricture advances, are passed in the form of small scybala, with occasionally a kind of spurious diarrhoea, consisting of the passage of the more fluid intestinal contents, whilst the solid matters are left behind. At the same time there are very commonly pain in defmeation, and the occa- sional passage of some mucus or blood ; and dyspeptic symptoms, with flatu- lent distension of the abdomen, are apt to come on. If the stricture be withiu four or five inches of the anus, it may be reached with the finger, and its precise situation and diameter ascertained. If above this point, it must be examined by the introduction of a well-greased bougie, attention being paid to the curve which the rectum makes from laterally, as Avell as from before backwards. In introducing a bougie in order to ascertain the presence of a stricture above the upper end of the rectum, but little information can be gained in many cases, as the point of the instrument is apt to hitch in folds of the mucous membrane, or opposite the promontory of the sacrum; and thus, its onward passage being qjrevented, there may seem to be a constriction, which in reality does not exist, and unless care be taken the mucous membrane may actually be lacerated, and the instrument forced through it into the peritoneal cavity. In other cases, the bougie will appear to pass, when in reality its point, meeting with an obstruction, curves dovmwards into the rectum. The Progress and termination of a simple stricture vary in different cases. Many persons wdll live on in very good general health through a long series of years, who present all the symptoms of this simple stricture of the rectum. In others the contraction may go on increasing, until at last complete occlusion takes place, with retention of fieces and all the symptoms of obstructed bowels. This condition usually comes on slowly, and, after the obstruction is complete, life may continue for several weeks ; but in some instances the obstruction seems to take place rather suddenly, and