1159 ENC YSTED IIYUROCELE. pei*sed by simple acu[)imcture, in an almost painless manner. The scrotum having been put upon tlie stretch, the hydrocele is ])iiuctnred at two or three points with a large darning-needle, introduced slowly by being rotated between the finger and thumb. From the punctures thus made the serum slowly escapes into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, whence in two or three days it is absorbed. This mode of treatment will be found also the safest and most effectual in the hydroceles of young children in whom it would be extremely dangerous to attempt a cure by injection of iodine. It may always be saiely employed if the application of the lotion before mentioned fails to cure the disease. It is not always prudent to have recourse to the radical cure in the treat- ment of hydrocele. In persons advanced in years, or of feeble and unhealthy constitution, the inflammation excited in the tunica vaginalis by any of the means just detailed may run on to such an extent as to give rise to inflamma- tory cedema, and even sloughing of the scrotum, Avith great danger to life. In these subjects it is much safer and usually sufficient to temporize with the hydrocele, and only to tap as occasion arises from the increasing size of the swelling. Ex'Cystkd Hydrocele.—In this variety of the disease the fluid does not lie in the tunica vaginalis, but is contained in a cyst which projects from the surface of the epididymis or testis, and pushes the serous investment of the gland before it. These cysts are much more frequently found connected with the epididymis than with the body of the testicle. Indeed, Curling has pointed out the fact, that small pedunculated cysts about the size of cmTants, and composed of a fine serous membrane, lined with tesselated epithelium, are very ft-equeutly found beneath the visceral tunica vaginalis covering the epididymis. They are delicate in structure, contain a clear limpid fluid, and are very liable to rupture. They are met Avith at all ages after that of pul)erty. According to Gosselin, after the age of forty, they occurred in at least tAvo- thirds of the testes examined to ascertain their presence. Such cysts as these may remain stationary, of small size, undiscern- ible during life they may rupture into the tunica vaginalis ; or they may enlarge and become deA'cloped into tumours of con- siderable magnitude. The fluid of these cysts possesses the re- markable characteristic, discovered by Liston, of containing sjKTmatozoa (Fig. Odb). Though spermatozoa do not always exist in this fluid, yet they are usually met with, sometimes in small quantities, at others so abundantly as to give it a turbid Fig. 005.—Spennatozoa from Eiicysteil Hydrocele. or opalescent appearance. This admixture of spermatozoa Avith the clear fluid of the cyst is probably due, as pointed out by Curling, to the accidental rupture of a seminal duct into an already existing cyst. Spermatozoa have also, but very rarely, been found in the fluid of an ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis ; and then probably their jiresence Avas due to the rupture of one of these cysts into the tunica vaginalis. Hence their presence in the