DISEASES OF THE HLADDER. 3 028 wliicb ail apparatus can be apjilied, to save the patient all the aimoyance of constant dribblin.u'. The first operation for the remedy of this malfdrination that was suceess- fully performed was done, in 1850, by Ayres of New York, in the case of a young- woman 28 years of age. fie, consequently, has the merit of haviiur been the pioneer in this branch of Snrg-ery, Ife was followed by Ihmcoast of Pliiladclphia, and subsequently by Holmes and Wood of London. Ayres’ Operation.—The operation pi-actised by Ayres comprised two steps. The first consisted in dissecting down a long flap of integument and of super- ficial fascia from the anterior wall of the abdomen aliove the bladder, and turning this down so that the cuticular surface was innermost and lay over the exposed bladder as far as its inferior border. Lateral union Avas then secured in this position, but the lower part of the flap Avas left open, so as to allow a free exit for the urine. In this Avay the bladder Avas covered in com- pletely by a skin flap, haAung its cuticular surface underneath, and conse- (juently next to the exposed vesical mucous membrane. The integuments of the abdomen were noAV sufficiently separated from their areolar connectioiig Avith the muscles beneath, on each side of the reversed flap, to admit of their sliding forwards, and being united by sutures along the mesial line, so as com- pletely to cover in the exposed raAv surface of the flap. Iii this way the bladder Avas overlaid by integumental structures, which readily united along the mesial line ; and Avere the patient a male, little more would require to Iac done than to dissect up the integumental structures beloAv this flap, and so to close in the epispadias and form an anterior Avail to the urethra. In Ayres’s case, as the patient Avas a female, the second step of the operation, which was practised after a lapse of three weeks), consisted in fashioning a covering for the vuHa, by dissecting up the integuments covering the peMc hones on each side, and uniting them to one another on the mesial line and to the loAver part of the rcA^ersed flap. The principle of the operations adopted by Pancoast, Holmes, and Wood, is essentially the same as that practised by Ayres—auz., that of raising integu- mental flaps from the abdominal Avail, and coA^ering in the bladder by turning the cuticular surface of these flaps toAvards it. But the details of the operations differ chiefly in this, that the flaps have been taken from the groins and lateral aspects of the abdominal AvaU, with their bases downwards, so that they might be nourished by the superficial branches of the common femoral artery. Wood’s Operation.—A flap composed of the skin and areolar tissue of the abdominal walls above the extroverted bladder is first dissected up. This flap is someAvhat square in shape, and its base should correspond in Avidth Avith the exposed mucous membrane of the bladder. Its length should be sufficient to coAnr the Avholc of the exposed mucous membrane. This flap is turned doAvn with its skin-surface toAvards the bladder. Then a “ pyriform flap,” the base of Avhich is about equal in Avidtli to the length of the umbilical flap, is dis- sected up from each groin, the base of the flap being “ directed toAvards the scrotum and thigh ” (Fig. DOT). These tAA'O flaps are brought together so as to meet in the median line, and to coA^er in the umbilical flap, the raAv surfaces of the two groin-flaps being iu contact Avith the raAV surface of the rcvei-sed umbilical flap. The flaps are then secured in ])Osition l)y hare-lip pins, each pin passed so as to transfix both the groin-flap.s and a fold of the umbilical flap beneath, holding the three firmly together (Fig. OO.s). Xo sutures arc