807 VARIETIES OF INGUINAL HERNIA I uinscle, aud then receives a partial iuvcstment of cremasteric fascia, especially on its iliac side, as it comes into relation Avith the internal oblique, ibis fonn of direct inguinal hernia, therefore, receives very nearly the same covering that the oblique does, though its investment by the cremaster is not so perfect. It does not come into relation Avith the conjoined tendons. Relations.—In the direct inguinal hernia, the sjjermaiic cord lies to the outer side of the sac ; and its elements are never separated from one another, JAS occasionally happens in the oblique. The epigastric artery also is on the outer side, but usually arches very distinctly over the neck of the sac, some- times indeed completely encircling the^ u]iper as Avell as the outer margin (Fig. 704). I^’GOM^LETE OR IxTERSTiTLVL Hernia is usually of the oblique kind ; but LaAvrencehas observed that it may be of the direct variety. It often escapes notice, but may not unfrequently be observed on the ojDposite side to an ordinary inguinal hernia. Double Inguinal Herniae, on opposite sides, are of very common occur- E rence, and they may be of the same, or assume different forms. In some : instances, the tAA'o forms may be observed on the same side (Fig. 705). In females, inguinal herniae are much less frequent than in males. They may occur at all ages, but seldom come under the notice of the Surgeon except » at advanced periods of life. They have the same relations as in the male, f excc[)t that the round ligament is substituted for the spermatic cord. Signs.—The signs of inguinal hernia A^ary somcAvhat according to its character, Avhether intei’stitial, com])lete or scrotal, oblique or direct. In the interstitial hernia, a degree of fulness Avill be perceived in the canal Avhen the patient stands or coughs ; and, on pressing the finger on the internal ring, or passing it up into the external ring, and directing the patient to cough, a distinct impulse, together Avith tumour, may be felt. In the ordinary obtiqve ingmnat hernia, a tumour of an oblong or oval shape, oblique in its direction, taking the course of the canal downwards and forwards, Avill be felt protruding /'/ Fig. 794.—Double Direct Inguinal Heniia : Neck of Sac crossed by Epigastric Arterj’. Fig. 795.—Double Inguinal Hernia on the same side : Oblique above,' Direct below ; separated by Epi- gastric A’essels.