6o8 PLASTIG surgery OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. abandoned by Surgeons in this country, having been replaced l)y the more certain procedure, which will now be described, of borrowing the skin for the new nose from the forehead. 2. The Indian Operation, a knowledge of which was brought to this country by Carpue in 1814, is extremely successful in its results, though requiring a good deal of nicety for its proper execution. The operative pro- cedures required by this method are somewhat complex, and may conveniently be divided into three distinct stages : 1, the Dissection of the Flap from the Forehead, and its Attachment to its new situation ; 2, the Separation of the Foot of the Flap where it is turned down from the Forehead, and the Formation of a proper Bridge to the Nose ; 3, the Formation of the Columna Nasi. 1. Formation and Attachment of the Flap.—In the shaping of the flap, care must be taken that it is of sufficient size ; as during the after-part of the treatment it often has a tendency to shrivel, and more inconvenience usually results from its not having originally been made large enough, than the reverse. The size adapted to the particular face may best be judged of by moulding a thin piece of gutta-percha to the nose, then flattening it out by dipping it in hot water, and using this as the guide for marking the outline of the flap upon the forehead. This should be traced with tincture of iodine, which will not be washed off so readily as ink by the flow of blood, which is often rather free. This flap should be of the shape in Fig. 692, taking care that it is rather square at the angles, and not too much rounded off. The size will necessarily vary according to the character of the countenance, and the extent of loss that has to be repaired. When the whole of Fig. *592.—Diagram in Rhmopiastic requires restoration, it is usually necessary to make it about two and a half to three inches in length, by about the same in width at the broadest part. It may either be taken from the middle of the forehead, or obliquely from one side ; if the latter, the right side is the most convenient. It must now be dissected off the forehead ; in doing this, care must be taken to cut the flap as thick as possible, especially at its root between the eyebrows. It must also be but little handled, and, above all, not pinched, either with Angers or forceps. The dissection should be commenced at the root, so that the outline may not be obscured by blood ; and this part should be left long, in order to admit afterwards of a very gradual and easy tAvist. In order to facilitate this, it is desirable also to make the incision on the right side a little loAvcr than that on the left. After the flap has been raised throughout the whole of its extent, pressure should be applied to the forehead by means of a sponge, Avith a view of an-esting the bleeding, before the next step is taken. This consists m paring the surface and edges of the stump of the nose, and remoA ing tlic integuments from it in such a AA"ay as to leaA’e a triangular law suifacc. In doing this care must he taken—whilst a good base of attachment is left not