EXCISION- OF JOINTS. 380 ment should be divided and the head of the radius removed first. The lower end of the humerus can then be dislocated and forced out at the external wound, or sufficiently exposed to be safely sawn with a narrow-bladed saw ; after which the olecranon and the upper end of the ulna can be cleaned with the elevator, protruded from the wound, and removed. In all methods of operating it is generally recommended to save as much of the periosteum as possible. Ollier states that the results obtained by sub- periosteal resection are far better than those by the older methods. In practice it will be found that, in excision for disease, whether the knife or the periosteal elevator be used, if the rule of keeping the instrument close to the bone be followed, the greater part of the periosteal covering of the bone will be saved, as its adhesion is always loosened by the inflammation. In primary excisions for injury, on the other hand, the gi’eatest care must be taken to save the periosteum, otherwise a flail-like joint is very apt to result. In many cases of excision of the elbow no vessels require ligature, though there may be free general oozing. I have never seen troublesome bleeding. After the operation the wound may be closed with sutures and treated ac- cording to the rules already laid down (p. 366). Much of the success in the result of the excision of this, as of other joints, will depend upon the care and attention bestowed on the after-treatment of the case. The object of the treatment is to obtain a strong false-joint possess- ing all the natural movements of the elbow. In order to do this a somewhat different course of treatment must be adopted in different cases. In all ex- cisions for disease, we have to guard against ankylosis ; undue mobility is very rare, and I have never seen it. In primary excisions for injmy, a flail- like joint is not uncommon, especially if much bone has been removed and the periosteum not preserved. I have met with it in one case—that of a young woman, the lower end of whose humerus was completely disorganized by a fall, and the elbow-joint opened. In this case the lower epiphysis of the humerus was excised, together with the articular ends of the ulna and radius. A good recovery took place ; but, although every care was taken to support the limb on splints, a very movable joint was left. In excisions for disease, or for the secondary results of wounds, we may in most cases dispense with splints. After the operation, the limb may be laid upon a pillow nearly in the extended position. Some of the Edinburgh Surgeons have recommended that the limb should be placed in the fully extended position with a very gentle weight exten- sion applied to the "wrist to prevent the bones from coming in actual contact with each other. This treatment has been tried in University College, and found to be very comfortable to the patient. At the end of a week or ten days passive movement must be commenced. In doing this, care must be taken not to grind the bony surfaces against each other ; gentle extension must be maintained while the angle of the limb is altered. At first it is sufficient merely to alter the posi- tion of the limb, letting it lie in the flexed position one day and the extended the next. As the wound heals more extensive movements may be carried out daily. Pronation and supination must not be neglected, and in carrying out these movements the ulna must be held steady with one hand while the radius is rotated on it by the other hand. The pain accompanying passive movement is much less if it be commenced early than if it be delayed till fibrous union has taken place between the bones. Splints are required only if there should be any tendency to displacement immediately after operation, if more than < I « i j ■i ■ i !l : i !i i i i