ROD EXT ULCER—SY2IPT0MS AND DIAGNOSIS. 9 stress on its commencement in a hard wart, and its contiimed extension by a hard maruin. This nlccrated tubercle becomes covered by a scab ; but, as the process of destructive ulceration progresses, the sore becomes too large to be covered in this way, and an nicer is left. This nicer, which constitutes the disease, and is the true “ L'lipus,” or “ NoU-ine-iccRycrG ” of the older authors, presents the following characters. It is always single, and spreads solely by continuity of tissue. It is depressed slightly below the surface, is of a pale pink colour, Avith a furrowed rather than a granulating surface, resembling by its farrowed smoothness an irregular layer of pink wax, and is usually painless, except where cicatrizing. Its edges are slightly raised, the degree varying in different cases and depending on the closeness with Avhich the destruction of the new growth follows its development. In some cases the two follow each other so closely that the ulcer appears to be a simple loss of tissue, scarcely any thickening of the edge being recognizable. Imperfect attempts at cicatriza- tion form a peculiar feature of the ulcer. At one part of its margin it ceases to spread, and a thin blue line of epithelium begins to extend over the raw surface. It never, how- ever, advances far ; before long the spreading recommences at the edge of the apparently unaltered skin, and the thin layer of epithe- hum speedily disappears. This attempted cicatrization is never accompanied by any contraction of the sore. This want of con- traction is a very peculiar feature of the disease. If half an eyelid is destroyed, the remaining half retains its normal position un- altered. Consequently signs of contraction may be taken during treatment to indicate that the growth has been successfully destroyed in part at least. The course of the disease is ahvays progressrfe ; more rapid in the skin, more slow in the bones and less vascular tissues, as those of a cartilaginous and fibroid character—the pinna of the ear, the sclerotic, and the septum of the nose, for instance. When it attacks bones, it penetrates them, and sinks deeply into their softer parts. Moore has noticed that the morbid giwth in front of the advancing disease is ahvays most clearly marked in cancellated bone—in the diploe, for instance. The soft parts immediately contiguous to the disease are perfectly healthy and uninfiltrated ; and there is never, even after many years of progress, any sign of secondary affection of the lymphatic glands. Unless the progress of this ulcer be arrested by treatment, it is never interrupted, but Avill terminate in the death of the patient. This fatal termination may, however, be long delayed. The accompanying Fig. 418 is from a patient of mine who had suilered from the disease for nearly thirty years, but Avho was to all appearance in perfect health, although the skull was perforated, the dura mater exposed, and the pulsations of the brain distinctly visible. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis has to be made from Epithelioma, Syphilis, and Lupus. The distinction from ordinary ejnllielioma is oi’ten at first dillicult; but in the later stages the absence of glandular allcction, the small amount of Fig. 418.—Rodent Ulcer: Perforation of Skull and exposure of Dm-a Mater.