6o4 plastic SUItCfERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH, hare-lip pins may advantageously be used. The use of collodion, where e applicable, is of great advantage in plastic surgery, as it not only secures / adhesion, but, by excluding the air, lessens the chance of suppuration. If the tj wound is large, it must not be completely covered by collodion lest discharges y accumulate beneath the flap. In some parts in which the Avound is moistened s by the secretion of some neighbouring mucous membrane and cannot be kept j dry, as in the eyelids, wet boracic acid lint or boracic acid ointment will be d found the best application ; in other parts absorbent iodoform or salicylic wool may be applied, a small piece of the “ jDrotectivc ” oil-silk being placed $ next the wound to prevent it from sticking. The wool may be flxed in | position by collodion. i For a plastic procedure to succeed, it is absolutely necessary that no morbid L process be going on in the seat of operation; and not only that none be actually in progress, but that all have ceased for some considerable time. This is more particularly the case when the deformity, for the remedying of which it is practised, has resulted from syphilitic ulceration. In such cases it is necessary to see that the constitution is sound, as well as that all local disease has been eradicated; otherwise the irritation of the operation might set it up again, and the new flap might be invaded and destroyed. From want of this precaution, I have more than once seen disappointment result. When an operation, as on the nose or lip, is performed for epithehoma or ; rodent ulcer, ablation of the morbid part may be done at the moment of : operating—the affection being a local one; when for struma or syphilis, the disease is constitutional, and care must be taken that all morbid action has thoroughly and completely ceased. As a general rule, plastic operations j practised for the repair of mutilations from injury, or of congenital j deflciencies, are more successful than those that are performed after disease. j No routine system of treatment should be adopted; but a few days of rest, good diet, and a dose or two of aperient medicine, may be prescribed before the operation is proceeded with. In the after-treatment of the case, a nourishing but unstimulating regimen should be observed. Faulty Cicatrices about the face and neck often occasion much deformity and annoyance, and may require a plastic operation for their removal. Those resulting from burns have already been considered, as also their treatment (Yol. I., p. 379, et seq.). When due to other causes, such as the unskilful opening of strumous abscesses, or the healing of wounds with dirt or grains ot gunpowder imbedded in them, being puckered, depressed, adherent, or dis- coloured, much may be done by proper surgical means to remove the disflgurement they occasion. This is best done by dissecting them out cleanly, then loosening the edges of the cut by running the point of the scalpel under the skin, so that they may be brought together without puckering, and then uniting them by means of horse-hair or fine catgut sutures j)assed by a round sewing-needle. Burow’s Operation.—A plastic operation specially suited for the repair of deformity consequent on the removal of morbid growths froin the cheeks i and other parts of the face, has been introduced by Burow, a Polish Surgeon, i and successfully performed and described by Stokes (lig- 087). The stej'S | are as follows. The growth to bo removed is included in three incisions, 1. 2, 3; and the integmnents fi’om which it springs arc then carefully dissectei off, leaving a raw triangle, the apex of which is on one, the base on the other | i