1073 TREATMENT OF GONORRllCEA. ectious less painful. The patient should also be desired to pass his urine I wquently, so as to wash the urethra clean. During this stage, or earlier if the nature of the disease is recognized, AY. Cheyiie recommends the use of iodoform and eucalyptus bougies, diese are composed of iodoform, 5 gr. ; oil of eucalyptus, 10 nt j leobroma, 35 gr. This is sufficient to make one bougie 4 inches long. It : thus used: the patient first passes water to clean the urethra, he then dips the )ugie in carbolic oil (1 in 20) and passes it quickly into the urethra before it icomes softened by the heat of his fingei-s. It must be pushed in with a ' ‘iicil, or some convenient instrument, till it completely disappears. An absor- •iit pad of iodoform or salicylic wool is then placed over the end of the penis, ; id covered with oiled-silk or gutta-percha tissue secured by a strij) of plaster, he patient then refrains from making water for as long as possible. One bougie av be used daily for two or three days, and in the interval some simple .jection, such as chloride of zinc (gr. ^ to 33’), or sulpho-carbolate of zinc I "T. ij to 5j) may be used. Chepie states that by these means the inflamma- on is often cut short and a cure effected in a week or ten days or sooner. ■ it fails it does no harm. One-twentieth of a grain of percliloride of is said to increase the certainty of their I added to each bougie eercuiy ition. During the second, or in fact in all stages of gonorrhoea, much harm is •fen done by applying lint to the penis. This does not absorb the discharge, it rather shuts it in. It is better to put the penis in a macintosh gononiioea- ;ig, at the bottom of which a good sized piece of salicylic wool may be aced to absorb the discharge. When the third stage of the disease has been reached, specific treatment iay be employed with gi’eat advantage ; while, if recourse were had to it an earlier period, it would certainly increase the inflammation and give he patient much distress. Even in this stage the specific remedies, such as ppaiba and cubehs, must be cautiously given ; the Surgeon feeling his way iith them, and being prepared to discontinue them and to return to strictly itiphlogistic measm'es, if he find that they increase the iiTitation. Should e disease, however, from the commencement, have assumed a subacute laracter, the specific treatment may with safety be adopted at a much earlier !riod. Copaiba and cubebs are the remedies that are almost universally used in is stage of gonorrhoea. Of these, copaiba is the least irritating, and con- quently most generally to be preferred. It may be administered in a variety ways ; in capsule, pill, draught, or extract. The capsule is generally to be efeiTed, on account of the nauseous taste being thus more completely disguised; it in many cases it acts with more certainty, and with better effect, if given either of the other foims. When the capsules are given, the patient may •ke from six to eight or ten in the day, and should at the same time have an Icaliue mixture, which increases materially the effect of the drug. A very :cellent mode of administering copaiba is to rub it down into a mass with irnt magnesia, and to let the patient take about a drachm of this paste three mes a day, in a bolus wrapped in wafer-paper ; or, if the taste be not much (jected to, he may take it most advantageously in mucilage, with liquor itassie and tincture of lienbane. In some relaxed constitutioms, and more particularly after frequent claps, 1 VOL, n. 7,