58o diseases of THE JAWS AND THEIR ADDEND AGES. nostril throno'li tlie aperture into the middle fossa, and then may keep up constant.irritation, with much foetor in the nostrils. 'When this takes place the patient is conscious of an unpleasant smell, hut according to Heath this is not perceptible to other people as it is in ozmna. In other cases, it drains through the socket of a tooth into the mouth ; and in other instances again, but much less commonly, its exit being prevented, it gives rise to enlargement of the cheek, the soft parts of which become brawny and inflamed, and the bones expanded, so that at last they are thinned to such an extent that, as in dropsy of the cavity, they crackle when iDrcssed upon. Any portion of the wall of the cavity—'the orbital, buccal, palatal, or nasal—may thus be expanded and fluctuation be felt through it; and, the lachrymal duct being commonly obstructed, the eye on the affected side becomes watery. In some cases abscess of the antrum has been followed by loss of sight in the eye of the same Fig. 674. Pig. 675. Fig. 676. Various fomis of Antrum-Perforator. f side. Temporary blindness is not uncommon when the floor of the orbit is raised by the pus. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition consists in the extraction of any carious tooth seated in the neighbourhood of the antrum ; or, if the teeth be all sound, in the removal of the second molar, the fangs of which come into close relation to, and frequently perforate the bottom of, the cavity. In this way an exit may be given to the matter ; but as it will not discharge itself sufficiently freely, the antrum must be opened through the alveolus, or through the canine fossa under the cheek, provided it be much expanded in this situation, so that its cavity can be easily reached. The perforation into the antrum may readily be made, or the socket of the tooth enlarged, by means of one of the forms of antrum-perforator here represented (Figs. G74, 07.’), 070), or a carpenter’s gimlet, as recommended by Fergussoii. As the matter drains away, the cavity will gradually contract, and the deformity thus be