887 STRUCTURE OF FILES. thus it will iirisc from the pressure of im aueurismal tumour on some ol the lar^e venous trunks within the chest. Structurk.—A pile, whether external or iutcriial, consists essentially in the first instance of a varicose condition of a portion of the ha3niorrhoidal plexus, or rather, of the small veins of the submucous tissue that pour their contents into this ; this varicose condition, becoming’ prominently developed at certain points, gives rise to small knots or tumours. A pile in this state is quite soft and compressible, andean readily be emptied by pressure ; and when cut into, it will be found to be composed of one or more cysts filled with blood, and surrounded by areolar tissue. The appearauce of cysts is, however, deceptive, being occasioned by a section of the sacculated and dilated veins that cntei* into the composition of the tumour. After the piles have existed for some little time, or after they have once become inflamed, the tissues that enter into their composition undergo modifications that induce corresponding altera- tions in the character of the tumour. The coats of the veins become thickened; their cell-like dilatations are tilled with coagulated blood ; the investing areolar tissue is hypertrophied or thickened ; aud, on being cut into, the pile is seen to be composed of a spongy kind of tissue filled with blood. External piles, when examined after removal, often resemble in structure a mass of hyper- trophied cutaneous aud subcutaneous tissue, in which a number of small vessels of uniform character ramify, but without any appearance of cyst-like spaces. Internal piles, on the contrary, contain more of the venous, and less «d‘ the areolar element. They are also commonly furnished Avith a small central artery, which is apt to bleed freely, or even dangerously, if the tumour 1)C cut across ; hence, provided they are not clogged with coagulated blood, they may readily be injected from the inferior mesenteric artery. In studying the structure of haBinorrhoids, it is of importance to observe that they occur under two different forms : one in Avhich there are distinct tumours, within or external to the anus, aud another in which there is merely a varicose condition of the veins of this region, without distinct intumescence. In those cases in Avhich there is merely a general varicose state of the veins of the submucous areolar tissue of the anus, without any distinct tumour springing above the level of the membrane, it will be found that the smaller branches of the haemorrhoidal plexus, and the small twigs that enter these from the submucous areolar tissue, have undergone varicose dilatation, being apparently greatly increased in number, as well as in size. The mucous membrane is of a deep mulbeiTy or port-wine colour, and becomes everted after each motion. There is usually some mucous secretion about the anus, rendering the part moist: and the patient complains at times of Aveight and of bearing doAvn, Avith pains either in the part itself, in the sacro-lumbar region, or in the thighs. The motions, more especially if hard, are streaked with blood, and more or less of this fluid drops in a rapid manner after the i passage of the fajces. There is seldom much blood lost ; but at times there is an exacerbation of all these symptoms, and the hasmon-hage, as Avill more \ particularly be mentioned hereafter, may become very abundant. This con- «<lition of the mucous membrane may precede, and is frequently found to accom- ’ pany the true pile, Avhether external or internal, and may be looked upon as - constituting the first stage of this disease. If this state of things be alloAAX'd : to continue unrelieved, the tendency to congestion increases ; more and more < f the mucous membrane is everted aud ])rotruded after deficcation ; the sub-