239 GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC. Anenrisms of the Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries may be either traumatic or spontaneous. Fischer of Hanover has published with comments, in tlie Arcldv fiir KUnische Ckinirf/ie, the records of tliirty-five cases of gluteal and sciatic aneurism : to which must he added a case of gluteal aneurism described by CJallozzi of Naples and one by Bickersteth of Liverpool. In twenty-seven of the cases ; the aneurism was distinctly gluteal ; and in six distinctly sciatic. Thirteen of the gluteal aneurisms, and two of the sciatic, were of traumatic origin ; I fourteen gluteal and four sciatic aneurisms were spontaneous. The gluteal I aneurism has been generally found situated at the upper part of the great I sciatic notch ; but may extend over a large portion of the buttocks. Sciatic aneurism lies more deeply ; and a portion of the sac may be Avithin the pelvis. The size of these aneurisms varies from a slight SAvelling to a tumour as large as a child’s head. In almost all the recorded cases there has been strong pulsation, isochronous Avith the heart’s beat; and Avhirring and buzzing murmui-s are heard on auscultation. There is almost ahvays pain in the tumour itself and in the course of the sciatic nerve, Avhich may be folloAved by paralysis of the parts supplied by it. The affections AA*ith which these aneurisms are most likely to be confounded are abscesses, soft sarcomata, cysts, and sciatic hernia. The diagnosis is sometimes difficult: thus Guthrie ligatured the common iliac artery for a large pulsating tumour in the gluteal region, Avhich lAresented all the characters of aneurism, but AA'hich proved, on the death of the patient eight months after the operation, to be a sarcoma. Gluteal aneurisms have on several occasions been opened by mistake for abscesses. According to Holmes, this accident has most frequently happened : Avhen the aneurism has been more or less diffused, and in such cases he i suggests that the aspirator should be used to render the diagnosis certain. In the Treatment, various methods have been employed. The sac has Uen \ laid open and the gluteal artery tied in five cases, all of Avhich recovered. In i another instance, after laying open the sac, the aneurism (gluteal) Avas found to extend into the pelvis ; and the internal iliac artery was tied, Avith a fatal result. Ligature of the internal iliac artery has been performed in eleven cases, six of which recovered. The common iliac artery has been tied in three cases, all of Avhich proA'ed fatal. Lijection of the perchloride of iron has been used in six cases ; four recoA’ered, one died, and in one the result is not knoA\m. Ligature of the scicitic arterg opening the sac has been performed intAvo cases, one of Avhich recovered. Spontaneous recovery is reported to haA^e occurred in one case. Ligature of the Internal Iliac.—This vessel Avas ligatured for the first time in 1812. The operation was performed by Stevens of St. Croix, on a negress Avho suffered from an aneurism of the nates, supposed to be of the gluteal artery, but found after death three years subsequently to take its origin from the sciatic. Ste])hens in this case made an incision fi\'e inches long- on the left side of the abdomen, carefully dissected through the parietes, separated the i)eritoiieum from the iliac fossa, turned it on one side, together with the ureter, and passed a ligature round the artery Avithout much difficulty. Since that time the operation has been done tAventy times ; in six cases A\dth success, by Arndt, AVhito, Mott (who accidentally Avounded the peritoneum), Kyme, Morton, and Gallozzi; in fourteen cases unsuccessfully, by Atkinson of