223 LIGATURE OF RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. u.n. ■fl.c.uT The Ulnar Artery above the Wrist mn,y be refidily ligatuied by making an incision (Fig. 480) about two inches in length along the outci side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the direct- ing line to the vessel. The incision should terminate about half an inch above the pisiform bone. If the edge of the tendon cannot be clearly felt, the incision must be made in the line of the artery. This is found by drawing a straight lino from the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus to the radial edge of the pisiform bone. The first rallying point is the edge of the tendon of the flexor ulnaris. As soon as this is clearly exposed it must be drawn inwards with a blunt hook, the wrist being slightly flexed to relax the muscle. A distinct fascia, usually marked by transverse fibres then comes into view ; this must be carefully opened and the artery will be found beneath, accompanied by a vein on each side and the ulnar nerve to the ulnar side (Fig. 485). The needle must be passed from the inner side. The artery lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and of the flexor digitorum subhmis and upon those of the flexor profundus. The mistake most likely to be made is carrying the incision too far inAvards so as to miss the tendon; the error is recognized by finding fleshy fibres directed downwards and inwards; the tendon is to the radial side of these. Ligature of the Ulnar Artery in the Middle of the Arm is a more troublesome operation, as the artery lies deeply on the flexor profundus covered Fig. 485.—Diagram of the Ulnar Artery at the AVrist. flx.suh. flexor sublimis iligi- torum; Jl.o.ul. flexor carpi ulnaris ; v.v. veins ; o. artery. Fig. 486.—Lines of Incision for Ligature of the Brachial Artery at the bend of the elbow and the radial and ulnar arteries in the middle of the fore-arm and at the wrist. by the superficial muscles of the fore-arm. It can, howcAnr, be reached with- out difficulty by separating the flexor carpi ulnaris from the contiguous border of the flexor digitorum sublimis. To find the interval betAveen these tAA'o muscles, a line must be draAvn from the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus to the radial edge of the pisiform bone. This line corresponds to the outer edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris and also in its loAver tAA'o thirds, to the com’se of the artery. The upper part of the artery pas.ses beneath the superficial muscles of the fore-arm from the middle of the hollow in front of the fore-arm to the junction of the upper and middle third.s of the line just mentioned. The operation is thus performed ; the guiding line having been found, an incision t\\^o inches in length is made in it (Fig, 48(!) through the skin and fat. A Avhite line then comes into vicAv formed by a fcAv tendinous fibres in the edge of the flexor ulnaris. If more than oneAA'hitc lino is seen a piece of ligature thread may be placed Avith one end on the inner