741 TREATMENT OF CANCER BY OPERATION. i:lie average duration of life was a little more than 48 months. Of 47 operated m, the corresponding average was also a little moi'e than 4!) months. In the jf irst two years of the disease the proportion of deaths was much less in those |j': operated on than in those Avho Avere left—being in the former 24 per cent,, in ;he latter oO per cent. The longest duration of life in cases not operated on [..A'as 18 yearn ; in those operated on, a little more than 12 years. Morrant Iji Baker finds that in 84 cases in Avhich no operation Avas performed, the average lEluration of life was 43 months ; in (52 cases operated on, the average Avas 56i- 1 nonths. vSibley finds that the average duration of life in unoperated cases ‘ vas about 32 months ; Avhilst in those subjected to amputation of the breast it E ’eached o4 months. Thus it Avill be seen that, independently of the possible ; ;hances of a complete cure, the operation holds out the prospect of an average ;;ain of about a year and a half. ■ There is, lioweA'er, another point of vieAV from Avhich these operations may be considered ; for, even if they do not prolong life, they may greatly improve ' he patient's condition, and place her in a state of comparative comfort during he remainder of her existence. Thus, she may be suffering so much pain rroin the local affection, or, if the cancer be ulcerated, maybe so much annoyed ■>y the fetor of the discharges, that she may be placed in a position of far Teater comfort by liaAnng the local source of disease and irritation remoA’^ed ; .nd though she die eventually of cancer, it may be with much less suffering 0 herself and others for her to be carried off by cachexy Avith secondary .Towths in the lungs or liA'er, than to be Avorn out by the pain, discharge, and lasmonhages, of a slowly progressiAm ulcerating cancerous mamma. The question as to the adArisability of operation in any given case of cancer f the breast cannot, hoAvever, be determined by abstract pathological reason- Qg, by reference to scientific principles, or by calculations founded on sta- isticid results. The Surgeon must minutely examine and attentively Aveigh 11 the circumstances of the particular case before him, and he must endeavour 0 distinguish those cases in AAdiich the operation may possibly be the means f preserA'ing or prolonging life, from those in which there is no prospect of :;s being of any service, or in Avhich indeed it must ineAutably hasten the atient’s death. "Whatever the A^alue of statistics may be in determining the nestion, Avhether in cases of cancer of the breast generally the operation will fiect a cure oi‘ prolong life, they are not equally valuable in their application D individual cases. When a Hurgeon is called on for his opinion respecting he propriety of amputating the breast of the patient before him, it is not ufficient for him to be able to state Avhat the general result of the operation Iuay be, but he must be able to satisfy himself AA'hether the particular instance nder consideration may or may not l)e one of those cases, exceptional 'Crhaps, in Avhich there is a possibility of extirpating the disease entirely from he system, or at all events of prolonging the patient’s existence. In order ) do this, it is necessary to endeaA'Our to lay doAvn some rules that may guide s in selecting those cases in Avhich the operation may be advantageously one, and in setting aside otliers in Avhich Ave knoAv that it Avill almost to a ertainty hasten the patient’s death. And, indeed, it is the absence of all udi considerations in general statistical inA'cstigations into the results of ■^'-peration for cancer, that deprives them of much of their value as guides in ctual practice. I hough nothing can be more unsurgical or improper than the indiscriminate