738 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. of importance, that it becomes necessary to consider its beai-ings somewliat in detail. No constitutional means ajDpear to he of the slightest perviee in ari'esting, and still less in removing, cancerous tumours of the breast. The advantafreB stated to have been derived from the use of arsenic, conium, iron, various preparations of mercuiy, &c., have not been borne out by experience ; and indeed, it may be stated generally that these and all other known remedies are perfectly valueless in the curative treatment of this disease. Compression by various means, whether by plasters, as employed by Young ; by agaric, as used by Recamier ; by the spring-pads of Tanchou ; or by the slack air-cushion of Arnott, has been much praised, not only as a palliative, but as a curative means of treatment in this disease ; and cases are recorded—which, however, even the Avarmest advocates of this plan of treat- ment are forced to admit to be altogether exceptional—in which the employ- ment of this means has been stated to have effected a complete removal of the tumour. But, although I am not prepared to deny that indurated masses in , the breast may have become absorbed during the employment of this treat- ' ment (and indeed I have had occasion to observe this in my own practice), ' I think that evidence is altogether wanting to show that an undoubted case of cancer of the breast has ever been cured by this means. And, nottvith- standing the high authority Avith which some of these alleged cures of cancer have been brought before the profession, no positive proof has been adduced to shoAV that the tumour that was observed was really and truly of a cancerous character, and that it may not have been merely the result of chronic inflam- mation. Every practical Surgeon well knows that it is utterly impossible, in the present state of science, to diagnose in many cases Avith complete certainty the true nature of a tumour of the breast, and must frequently have witnessed cases in which, after extirpation, the morbid groAvtli has been found to be of a different character from what had originally been supposed. I am acquainted ■ with at least eight or ten cases in Avhich some of the most experienced Surgeons, • both in this country and in Paris, have amputated the breast for supposed sciiThus ; when, after removal, it was found simply to have been the seat of a . chronic abscess with very dense walls. And with regard to a hard, chronic, ! and indolent tmnour of the breast, few Surgeons will hazard a positive diagnosis | as to whether it is scirrhous or not, until they have actually seen a section of it. For these reasons, it is impossible not to receive with the utmost hesita- tion the cases of supposed cancer of the breast reported as cured by the ; advocates of compression, and not to suspect that the cases recorded by these gentlemen as instances of the successful employment of this plan of treat- ment may have been simple chronic indurations of the breast and not cancer. But, though there is no evidence before the profession to prove the utility of compression as a curative agent in cancer of the breast, I think that, when practised Avith Arnott’s slack air-cushion, or Tanchou’s spring-pad, it is of con- siderable value as a palliative in some of the earlier stages of this disease should the patient refuse to submit to operation ; then it may undoubtedly occasionally arrest its progress for a time, diminish the size of the sAA'elling, and lessen the violence of those attacks of lancinating pain which are so distressing to the patient. In conjunction with tlie pressure, much relief te suffering may be afforded by the use of belladonna plasters, or of atropine oi