428 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of sequestra which will not come away, and prevent liealing, adds greatly to the gravity of the case. Treatment.—The first and great principle in the treatment of angular curvature of the spine is to take off the weight of the upper part of the body from the diseased vertebrm, and at the same time to fix the vertebral column so as to prevent disturbance of the healing process, that of ankylosis, by which the mischief is repaired, and consolidation ultimately effected. These great principles of lightening the weight upon, and securing the rest of, the diseased portion of the spine, may be carried out by one of three methods, viz., 1, the maintenance of the horizontal position ; 2, use of : mechanical apparatus ; 3, the employment of a plaster-jacket or one made of other material, moulded to the body. These various methods may be combined. : Thus after the application of the plaster of Paris or felt jacket, the horizontal i position may be.enjoined. They cannot be employed indiscriminately. One i method will be more suitable than another at different ages, in different stages of the disease, or according as it affects different portions of the column. In infants, the utmost that can done is to enjoin strictly the maintenance of the recumbent position on a soft pillow or small couch. In children and , young adults, the plaster-of-Paris jacket will be found to be most serviceable, • combined with long-continued rest in the horizontal positions ; whilst in persons j: of more mature age, felt, or so-called poroplastic jackets, or some of the various !; forms of mechanical apparatus, will be of most use, for by the use of these the 11 patient may sit, stand, or walk without risk of aggravating the disease. Also, j i • the weight of the head, shoulders, and arms is great in adults, and requires i ' to be taken off the spine by properly devised mechanical means. j As to the period for the application of these various means of securing rest, all that need be said is, that one or more should be employed in as early a stage of the disease as possible. So soon as the existence of an angular cmwature is determined, no time must be lost in securing rest and support to the spine. -f As to the seat of the disease and the corresponding choice of means, it is difficult to give more than very general rules. But it may be said that when the cervical or upper dorsal spine is affected, mechanical apparatus will found to be most effective. When the middle or lower dorsal, or lumbar spine is the seat of disease, then the plaster or felt jacket, according to the age of the patient, will be found to be most useful. When the recumbent position is had recourse to, it is necessarily, if it can be maintained, the most effective, and should in no case be omitted as an adjunct to other methods of securing rest. It will be found that the prone is preferable to the supine posture, and the patient should, if old enough to understand the importance of rest, be laid upon a properly constructed prone couch. The prone position is certainly the best; for not only is the projecting angle formed by the excurvated spine not injuriously compressed, as it would be in the supine or lateral position, but the patient is more comfortable ; and it is easier should it be necessary to apply issues or the actual cautery. At the same time, the back not being the lowest part of the body, there is a less tendency to congestion of the spinal veins, and to consequent increase of the inflammatory softening of the bones. Formerly the patient was thus kept in the recumbent position for many months, seldom less than twelve or eighteen, tiU all the acute symptoms had disappeared. Since the introduction of the treatment by the plaster jacket to be immediately described, this is no longer i I Hi r !l