SELECTION OF OFERATION FOR STONE. 1013 Selection of Oferation : LiTiioimY or ]jItiiotrity.—Tlic cii’cuni- tmces tliat must chietly detennine the Surgeon in the selection of the • irticular operation to be performed are—1, tlie Age of the Patient; 2, the .;ze and Character of the Stone : and the Condition of tlie Urinary rguns. 1. Age.—The age of a patient is an important element. As a general rule, may be stated that at the middle and advanced periods of life lithotrity is ost successful; while, in early ages lithotomy is the preferable operation. In :ildren under the age of puberty, the geuito-urinary organs are undeveloped ; e urethra is narrow, and the bladder small. These conditions not only X'essitate the employment of instruments specially constructed of reduced :e, and render great care in their manipulation requisite, but the narrowness the urethra is especially apt to render the expulsion of the fragments of e cruslied stone extremely difficult, and to favom- their impaction. If, in dition to this, we bear in mind the great sensitiveness of the bladder in : ung children, and their restlessness under the repeated instrumental inter- if^.’ence which may be necessary, it can easily be understood that lithotrity neither an easy nor a safe operation in them unless the calculus be so nail—not larger than a cherry-stone—that it can be crushed and brought :^ay by a single introduction of the lithotrite. Lithotomy, on the other i!,ud, is so successful an operation in children, that the Surgeon would in nothing by substituting lithotrity for it. Thus, of 35 children under , operated on by Cheselden, only 1 died; of 58 children cut for stone St. Thomas’s, but 1 case proved fatal; and the average mortality of hotomy cases in childi'en is not more than about 1 in 14. Guersant, at ;e Children’s Hospital in Paris, performed lithotrity in children 40 times . 35 of the cases being in boys : of these, 7 died, and 3 at least of the others jjuired to be afterwards subjected to lithotomy. Of the deaths, 4 were 'nsed by croup and scarlatina, and 3 were attributable to the operation, lese results ain anything but satisfactory when compared with those of hotomy in children in this country, or even in Guersant’s own practice ; of 100 that he cut, 14 died. I think that the best and most experienced |;|rrgeon8 are agi-eed in this, that, although lithotrity is practicable on boys, yet hotomy, being much safer and far speedier, should be preferred to lithotrity all patients under puberty. -At very advanced periods of life, the irritable state of the urinary organs, 2 tendency to the supervention of cystitis, and the enlarged state of the ©state, are often such as to prevent the performance of lithotrity with any ospect of success. At the same time, the success of lithotrity in old age has cn very great in the hands of some Surgeons. Thus, Segalas states that, of octogenarians whom he lithotrized, he did not lose one ; and of 27 septua- T I narians, but two. Lithotomy, on the other hand, is very fatal in aged rsons. fit is at the middle period of life, or in persons Avho, tliough advanced in ^ lare, preserve tlieir powers unimpaired, that lithotrity is most generally 1 plicable and most successfid. . 2. Size and Character of the Stone.—With regard to the size of the one, there is no doubt that a small stone is more favourable to lithotrity than large one. All calculi below one inch in diameter may easily be crushed, ovided no special circumstance is present rendering the oi)eration undesirable.