INFLAMMATORY (KDEMA OF THE ECROTUM. 1143 'Spongy tissue should be wiped over with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 do 3j’.)j and the stump must be covered with a piece of lint moistened in iboracic acid or some other antiseptic. After passing water the parts must be -well bathed with some antiseptic solution. In this way septic infection, which may readily occim in so spongy and vascular an organ, may be prevented. If the amputation be performed too high up infiltration of urine may take : place into the scrotum, and to prevent this, it may be safer to introduce an elastic catheter after the operation, and leave it in for a few days. When the ecraseur is used it is better to divide the skin and the coi*pus • spongiosum with the knife, the corpora cavernosa only being cut through by the wire. There is, however, little if any advantage to be gained by the use of this instrument, unless there is any special reason for avoiding loss of blood, as haemorrhage is not usually a serious trouble in the operation. If the glands in the groin are distinctly, but not too greatly, enlarged, an attempt should be made to remove them at the same time as the amputation of the penis is performed. In a case extending too far back to allow the performance of the ordinary operation, Pearce Gould successfully removed the disease by dividing the scrotum and dissecting away the whole organ as far back as the crura, leaving an opening in the perineeum through which the patient subsequently passed water. If after amputation of the penis much inconvenience arises from the mine being passed downwards between the legs, it may best be avoided by following Ambrose Park’s advice of adapting a funnel, which may be made of metal, or ivory, to the pubes over the stump, and thus carrying the urine clear of the person. Other Tumours besides cancer are occasionally met with in the penis. I have seen Cysts and Nce^vi situated under the prepuce (p. 942, Vol. I.); and Fibrous Tumour may occm' in the corpora cavernosa. Such morbid gi’owths if small can readily be removed without injury to the rest of the organ; if large, they may require its amputation. DISEASES OP THE SCEOTUM. Inflammatory (Edema of the scrotum is an erysipelatous inflammation of this region, and derives its chief peculiarity from the circumstance of its giving rise to great effusion into and swelling of the areolar tissue of this part and of the penis, with a tendency to the rapid formation of slough in it, by which the integument may likewise become aftccted to such an extent that the testes and cords speedily become denuded. This disease usually originates from some local source of irritation, as fissures, cracks, or urinary extravasation (p. 702, Vol. I.). There is a peculiar and specific form of “ inflammatory oedema ” of the scrotum and penis, which is apt to occur as a sequence of small-pox and scarlet fever. In this form of the disease rapid and extensive infiltration of the parts occui-s, ivith a tendency to speedy gangrenous disorganization of the areolar tissue and skin covering the organs of generation. Treatment.—This coiLsists in elevating the scrotum, fomenting it well, and making early and free incisions into it, particularly at the posterior and dependent parts of the scrotum and penis, with the view of relieving the tension to which the tissue is subjected by the effusion into its meshes, and thus