i TREATMENT OF CHRONIC CYSTITIS. •035 irce or four times a clay, either in pill or in a mixture containing' mucilage i * I suspend it. * f When by these means the urine has been brought into a tolerably liealthy ! I'ondition, so far as putrefaction is concerned, there still may continue a con- 11 .derable excess of mucus wliich renders it prone to decompose, and unless onstant care is exercised the iiatient may speedily relapse. To check tliis ii arious astringent injections are sometimes of use, such as tannin (gr. j to 53); {; cetate of lead (gr. ^ to 5]) ; or nitrate of silver (gr. j to 53'). , j Simultaneously with antiseptic or astringent injections, medical treatment / i| lay also be carried out. The greatest benefit will be derived from warm, V| imulating and balsamic diuretics. Amongst the best of these are infusion i I f buchu, uva ursi, and triticum repens ; but these remedies are useless, unless ll iken in cpiantities of a pint or a pint and a half in the day. When the .isease is very chronic no remedy appears to me to possess so much influence ver the mere ropy mucoid discharge as the balsam of copaiba. Turpentine, ubebs, and tincture of the sesquichloride of iron, will be found useful. It is ;ften difficult to say beforehand which diuretic will suit best, and I can lay ■ own no precise rales to guide the practitioner in this respect. But they may •fteii be tried or alternated with advantage. In many cases great relief is btained from each new remedy, but it is not maintained. The diet must be very carefully attended to ; no hot or spiced food should e allowed, and little or no salt. Alcoholic stimulants are better entirely voided, but should any be required weak gin, or Hollands and water, or r rhisky and Avater are the best. Coffee must be strictly forbidden, but weak ea may be taken without restraint. Much benefit may often be derived from pure milk diet for some Aveeks if the patient can bear it ; if it prove too ich the cream may be taken off. A course of one of the alkaline mineral Avaters nay sometimes prove of service, especially in gouty subjects. The body must e Avarmly clothed and all exj)osure to cold avoided. Irritability of the Bladder.—This is not a disease ; it is merely a •ATnptom. It is of Anry frequent occurrence and is met Avith at all ages, and "rises from a great variety of causes. It consists in a frequent desire to pass ivater, not dependent on an increase in the quantity of the secretion. The .esiro is usually so urgent as to amount to actual pain, and in extreme cases it impossible to delay the act by any voluntary effort. The urine is generally jected forcibly, or even spasmodically, and in small quantities at a time. It nay <n' may not be attended by strangury according to the cause, and the part ffccted. StrangurA" io most marked in those cases in Avhich it is due to disease ; f the prostate or neck of the bladder. Causes.—Iiritability of the bladder may arise, as has already been stated, pfrrom a great variety of causes. These differ someAvhat as the disease occurs in I men, in women, or in children. The causes of irritability of the bladder in men nay be aiTangcd under the folloAving heads. 1. Morbid Condiiians of!he Urine.—If this secretion be prctcrnaturally acid Mid loaded Avith lithates, or uric acid, it is esjiecially apt to occasion an irrita- ioii of the bladder, attended by jiain and a freipient desire to expel the •ffending fluid. Urine containing oxalates in large quantity is sometimes, Iiough more rarely, a source of irritability of the bladder, Avhich in those cases 8 perhaps increased by the morbidly sensitiAe state of the nervous system sometimes co-existing Avith these conditions of the urine. Amorphous phos- I