CANCER OF THE TEETICLE, 1177 (eiicephaloid ciiiicer. The stroma is small in amount, and encloses spaces ol great size lilletl with large cells of irregular form. A malignant testicle may rapidly attain a very considerable magnitude, becoming as large as a cocoa-nut in a few weeks or months. When of this size it is, of course, abundantly sii]:)plied by blood-vessels ; consequently the spermatic artery and accompanying veins will be found a good deal dilated. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood speedily become enlarged, those in the iliac fossa especially, as may be ascertained by deep pressure in the flank. The inguinal glands do not in general become affected, until the skin has become iinpliciited by the progress of the disease. It is then also that the 1‘ancerous cachexy rapidly develops itself. The Fymjitomis of encephaloid of the testicle are usually somewhat obscure in the early stages, although they become clearly and distinctly developed as the disease progi-esses. It is most commonly met with after middle life. The patient first complains of some degree of draggmg pain and weight in one of the testes, which on examination will be found to be indurated and enlarged, though preserving its normal shape. The enlargement con- tinues until the testicle attains about the size and shape of a duck’s egg, being somewhat tense and elastic, but smooth and heavy. As it increases in size, which it usually does with rapidity, it becomes rounded and some- what doughy or pulpy in parts, where, indeed, it may almost bo semi- fluctuating, though in others it continues hard and knobbed. This altera- tion in feel is partly due to softening of the substance of the tumour, and partly to its making its way through the tunica albuginea. The scrotum is ranch distended, reddened, and purplish, and becomes covered by a network of tortuous veins ; the cord may Ijecome somewhat enlarged, hard, and knotty. As the disease advances, the scrotum becomes adherent at some of the softened parts, ulceration takes place, and a fungus projects, which presents all the characteristic signs of fungus haematodes; it does not commonly happen, how- ever, that the disease is allowed to go so far as this before removal. The pain is not veiy severe at first, but after a time assumes a lancinating character, extending up the cord ajid into the loins. Secondary infection of the system takes place through the medium of the lumbar and iliac glands in which the absorbents of the testis terminate. In cancer of the scrotum, just as in the .same disease of the penis, the inguinal glands become secondarily affected. Trealment.—The only treatment of any avail in encephaloid of the testicle., is the removal of the diseased organ. This operation is not performed so much with the view of curing the jpatieut of his disease, which will probably return in the lymphatic glands or in some internal organ, as of affording temporaiy relief from the sufiering and incumbrance of the enlarged testicle. 11 is therefore an operation of expediency, and should be done only in those. ca.ses in which the di.sease is limited to the testicle, the cord being free and the glands not evidently involved; so that, if recurrence take place, it may not lx; a veiy speedy one. An Undescended Testis may become the scat of a tumour, just as it may be affected by inflammation. The combination of malposition of the organ and a tumour is necessarily rare. But its possible occurrence must be borne in mind by the Surgeon, as it may lead to the necessity of an operation for the removal of the diseased mass from the inguinal canal. Cases of this kind arc recorded by Storks and .1. ^1. Arnott. The tumour in