DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 568 where tlie disease is endeinic ; so filso in larg-e towns, it occurs cliiefly amongst the poor who live in cellars and kitchens, or damp, ill-ventilated streets and || courts. When it is met with in the richer classes, it is found mainly amongst I children and young people shut up in school-rooms or devoted to a sedentary and indoor life, unnatural and prejudicial. It is rarely, if ever, met with amongst those who lead open-air and active lives. Bad food and low living no doubt conduce to it. The tendency is probably hereditary in some cases ; when associated with idiocy, constituting that wretched condition “ cretinism,” it undoubtedly is so. Every race of men is liable to bronchocele, and it occurs in all latitudes, from the Arctic region to the tropics. Thus Franklin found bronchocele amongst the inhabitants of the polar regions, and Mungo Park amongst those of the interior of Africa. In this country it is most common in Derbyshire, and has consequently received the name of “ JJerhyshire neclc." It is most frequent amongst women. Symptoms and Varieties.—Simple Hypertrophy.—The thyroid gland may be simply hypertrophied, and may then attain a considerable size. It forms a smooth rounded tumour, maintaining more or less accurately the form of the normal gland, though frequently the enlargement on one side is greater than that on the other. It is soft and elastic to the feel, and moves up and down with the trachea during deglutition. In the majority of instances in England, the tumour is of but very moderate size, commencing at first as a mere fulness and uniform rounded enlargement of the isthmus, until perhaps, by the pressure of the growth confined between the sterno-mastoid muscle and under the deep fascia of the neck, the voice becomes croaking and harsh, and respiration and deglutition seriously affected. It is seldom that the bron- 1 chocele distorts the structures of the neck to one side ; but this may happen. ' Thus I have seen the larynx and trachea pushed completely over to the left, i forming a long convexity in that direction, whilst the carotid sheath on the right side was thrust behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. There is a remarkable connection between tumours of the thyroid gland of this kind, and a general anmmic condition of the system. In London nothing is more common than to find a certain degTee of bronchocele in pale and bloodless women and girls ; indeed, so frequent is the coincidence that it is impossible not to regard it in the light of cause and effect. The immense lobulated tumoiu’s hanging from the fore part of the neck, which are met with in various districts of this country and of the Continent, more especially in the valleys of the Alps, in which the disease is and has been epidemic for ages,* usually belong to the fibrous variety of bronchocele. Fibrous Bronchocele.—This form commences as simple hypertrophy, but as the tumour increases in size it loses its soft elastic feel and becomes dense and indurated ; at the same time its form often changes, becoming more irregular and lobulated. The pressure effects of the fibrous bronchocele are more severe than those of the simple form, owing to the greater density of its structure. Respiration may be greatly impeded, at first only during exertion, but, when the growth reaches a considerable size, during rest also. Occasion- ally the tumour may extend below under the sternum, and the pressure-signs then become more serious. Deglutition is seldom seriously interfered with. Cystic Bronchocele is due to the development of cysts in the substance * Quis tuiniduin Guttur miratur in Alpibus?