’I 1' . I RESULTS OF EXCISION OF THE ELBOW. 381 Fig. 541.—Arm after Excision of Elbow. Uhe usual amount of bone has been removed, or if there should be any tendency : to e.xcessive looseness of the new joint after the third week. *lhe patient can usually leave his bed at the end of the second week, and the arm must then be carried in a sling. ^ In priinaiy excisions for injury, a properly-constructed splint is frequently j required for some weeks, as the tendency is usually towards a flail-like, fibrous liinion rather than to ankylosis. A splint jointed opposite the elbow will be ■ found useful in many cases so as to allow of variation of position Avhen neces- sary. Pronation and supination must not be neglected, and must be made when the splint is removed, as no apparatus has yet been invented which will illow of these inovenients being carried out in a normal way whilst it is applied. By the above mode of treatment a useful false joint can almost always be obtained. In two cases avhich I have had the opportunity of dissecting, one ^ (.sixteen months and the other two ^ yeai-s and a half after the operation, it was found that the ends of the bones were rounded and firmly held together by a capsule of dense liga- mentous tissue. In this way a most excellent and useful limb will result, having the four movements of : flexion, extension, pronation, and supination nearly perfect, with but little deformity, as may be seen by the accompanying cut (Fig. 541), Avhich was taken nearly two years after operation from a patient of mine. A coachman, whose elbow-joint I excised, was able to drive, to lift a pail of ''water, and to do aU the duties of his employment, nearly as weU as if the arm rhad retained its normal condition. Should there be any danger of ankylosis, the patient may be put mider r chloroform and forcible flexion and extension be employed ; after which, ipassive motion must be kept up daily. If this fail, care must be taken that t the ankylosis takes place in a flexed position. Should recun-ence of disease take place, resection may be again resorted to |A.with success. In one case, indeed, Avhich had been unsuccessfully operated on : twice by other Surgeons, I excised the bones about the elbow for the third • time with complete success, removing a considerable portion, nearly three . inches, of the necrosed shaft of the humerus, and the carious upper ends of the radius and ulna. In this case, which was that of a boy about fourteen years of age, complete recovery took place. He had a most useful arm, regaining the four movements of the joint, pronation, supination, flexion, and exten- ssion, and this notwithstanding his being of a most strumous habit. Six i months after the excision he Avas obliged to haA^e one thigh amputated for disease of the bone, and he eventually died at the end of two and a half years, of caries of the spine. Results.—Excision of the elbow-joint, so far as life is concerned, is a A^ery ' 8ucces.sful operation. The result, Avhen it is practised for compound fracture or dislocation, has been already stated at pp. 575, G(J3, Vol. I. When practised for disease it is equally .satisfiictory; and indeed death can occur only from some unforeseen and accidental complication, such as may, and does occasion-