COXSTIT UTIOXAL TREA TMENT. 117 occurs in a similar manner (Fig. 448). On the serous surfaces, as into the pleura or pericardium, the aneurism may burst by a fissure or by a stellate opening (Fig. 449) forming in the membrane. An aneurism has been known to give way and discharge blood for some weeks before it proved fatal ; and it may even happen that, after the rupture has occurred, no hcBmoiihage may take place, but death may result from the pressure of the tumour, ihus, in the case of Liston, the sac of the aneurism which caused the death of that gi'eat Surgeon had actually given way, a mass of coagulum projecting from it frito the trachea ; yet death resulted from the irritation induced by pressure upon the inferior laryngeal nerve, and not from hmmorrhage. Treat^iext.—The treatment of aneurism is of two kinds—constitutional and local. In many cases, as in the various forms of internal aneurism, for in.stance, the constitutional treatment can alone be employed \ and in all cases Fig. 448.—Aperture in CE.sopliagus procluceil by Pressure of an Aortic Aneurism. Fig. 449.—Stellate Rupture of an Aortic Aneiuism into Pericardium. of external aneurism it .should be had recourse to as an important adjunct to any local measures that are adopted. In the Constitutional or Medical Treatment of aneurism, the great object is to bring about the same condition as that by wLich the spontaneous cure of the disease is effected, and, indeed, to put the patient and the part in the most favourable state for nature to consolidate the tumour; and, though it may not be possible in the great majority of cases to effect a cure in this way, at all events the disease may be palliated, and its progress retarded. ^The sacculated is, however, the only form of aneurism that can ever be cured by constitutional means; in the fusiform variety, all that can be done is to retard the progre.ss of the disease. The principal objects to be held in view are, in the first place, to lessen the force of the heart’s impulse, so as to diminish the excentric pressure upon the arterial coats ; and, secondly, so to modify the condition of the blood ns to dispose it to the deposition of its fibrine. In carrying out these indications, it should be borne in mind that there are two opposite conditions of the system in which aneurism occurs ; in one there is a plethoric, and in the other an aimnnic tendency. The plethoric and irritable state of system occurs chiefly in young sultjects, in wlu)m the j)rogress of the disease is acute and rai)id, attended by