1050 DLSEASES OF THE BLADDER. colotx:)my, constitute the main elements of tlie treatment of this incurable malady. HEMATURIA. The admixture of blood ^^'ith the urine may usually be recognized by the colour that it communicates to this fluid. If the blood be in large quantity, the urine will be dark brown, chocolate, or moroiie-coloured, and will stain red the bottom of the utensil or a piece of white blotting-paper. If it be in smaller quantity, the urine will be brown in varying shades—smoky, or having some- thing the aspect of thin beef-tea ; and in other cases it will be little discoloured, but will deposit a red or brown sediment on standing. Under the microscope, blood-discs may be detected in large numbers. Heat coagulates the blood into a brownish-grey deposit, leaving a clear supernatant fluid. Microscopic exami- nation should never be neglected in doubtful cases, as by that means small traces of blood may be certainly recognized ; and, moreover, it must be re- membered that in the condition known as hmmatinuria the urine is darkly stained with blood-pigment, but contains no corpuscles. The patient’s word that he has passed blood should never be relied upon too imphcitly, as liigh- coloured urine depositing uric acid or urates is often ignorantly supposed to contain blood. Hmmaturia may arise from a constitutional condition or from a local cause. When constitutional, it is usually the consequence of scurvy. In these cases it will necessarily be associated with other, and probably marked, evidences of the disease. A form of hsematuria, depending on the presence of a parasite— the Bilharzia hccmatolia—is prevalent in Africa, and has been ably investigated by Leuckart, John Harley, Cobbold, and others. When arising from local causes, hmmaturia is a symptom of disease existing in some part of the urinary apparatus, and it often assumes great importance from the loss of blood induced. Sources.—Ha3maturia may arise from, 1, the Kidneys ; 2, the Bladder; 3, the Prostate ; or 4, the Urethra ; and from each source several distinct causes will produce it. The recognition of the precise morbid condition that gives rise to hmmaturia is of the first importance in its treatment. 1. Haemorrhage from the Kidneys.—When occiuring from the kidneys, the bleeding may be the result of congestion, acute inflammation, or malignant disease of those organs, of acute, tubercular, or calculous pyelitis, or of passage of a calculus down the ureter. The most certain evidence that the blood comes fi’om the kidney is the presence of blood-casts of the renal tubules. The renal congestion may be inflammatory or passive ; in either case the urine will pre- sent, after the discharge of blood has ceased, evidences of chronic renal disease in the form of albumen, pus, or casts of tubes. When the hemorrhage arises from renal calculus, either stationary or descending, the symptoms of that morbid condition, described at p. 918, Vol. II., will be well marked. Blood from the kidney does not often appear as clots, and is uniformly mixed with the urine. Blood-casts of the ureter have been seen in cases of very profuse renal haemorrhage from cancer or injury. 2. Haemorrhage from the Bladder.—If the blood proceed from the bladder, it may be the result of congestion of the mucous membrane, of the irritation of a calculus, of a papilloma or other villous tumour, or of the ulcera- tion of malignant disease. When it depends on vesical congestion, there vill