28 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. mastoid. The division gave some relief, but the stretching only exagge rated ; the spasms. | TRAUMATIC PARALYSIS. || Traumatic paralysis is referable to three distinct sets of causes. Tirst, it I may arise from Injury io, or Comjpression of ihe Brain giving rise to localised ! paralysis when the cortical motor centres are injured, or to hemiplegia or more general paralysis when the deep centres are implicated, or pressure is exerted | on the brain-substance generally. These conditions have already been fully described in the Chapter on the Injuries of the Head (pp. 742 and 700, Vol. I.). Secondly, it may arise from Injury of the Sjpinal Cord giving rise primarily or secondarily to lesion of the substance, either by laceration, com- pression, or ultimate disintegration. The effects produced will vary with the | extent and seat of the injury from complete paraplegia, with loss of sensation in the paralysed parts, to irregular impairment of sensation and motion. (See Wounds of the Spinal Cord, p. 785, and Secondary Effects of Concussion i of the Cord, p. 771, Yol. I.). Thirdly, Injury to the Nerves at any part of | their course, from the roots to the terminal subdivisions of their trunks, may occasion paralysis of the parts supplied by them. The effect produced may be immediate, as from Section of a Nerve (see p. 473, Vol. I.) ; or more j gradual, from Pressure (see p. 472, Vol. I.) ; or it may occur as the result of j Chronic Neuritis following a strain, or other injury (see p. 477, Vol. I.). j These conditions having been already fully described, it remains to notice ' here only a form of paralysis that is occasionally confounded with the ; traumatic varieties ; viz., that arising from exposure to cold, or rheumatic I paralysis. Rheumatic Paralysis, or Paralysis from Exposure to Cold (Du- chenne), is a form of disease more frequently spoken about than met with— that is to say, if we apply the term paralysis to loss of nervous power in- dependently of inability to use the limb from muscular weakness, rigidity, or pain, or from similar conditions connected with the joints. Genuine rheumatic paralysis from affection of the nerves does, however, exist. Du- • chenne states that he has met with it in most of the nerves of the limbs, and it ■ is far from uncommon in the facial nerve. It most commonly arises from i exjDosure of the affected part to a draught or prolonged chill while the body is sweating. It is difficult to assign a distinct pathological cause for it: that it ; is due to an actual inflammation of the nerve, a neuritis, may be assumed from the symptoms, and the paralysis is probably the result of compression of the fibres of the nerve from effusion into its sheath. The paralysis may arise in two ways. In the first variety there is prolonged evidence of neuritis before the loss of power appears. The first symptoms when a compound nerve is affected is pain along its course, gradually increasing in severity, stabbing or violently aching in character. With this there may be various modifications of sensation in the parts supplied by the nerve, as numbness, tingling, or hypersesthesia. These symptoms are increased by movement. After lasting some time, even for weeks or months, the pains cease, and the muscles supplied by the nerve become paralysed, and after a time waste, and then electrical irritability becomes impaired. In the second variety the preliminary symptoms of neuritis are wanting, the . paralysis appearing immediately after exposure to cold. This is conmionly i