1119 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. (time there is a sense of some relief, as if he were emptying the bladder, followed after a time by a hot and burning throbbing pain in the perinmum. : In other cases the process is more gradual, and is preceded by the formation ' ^ of an abscess in the immediate neighbourhood of the urethra, most probably j: commencing in one of the lacuine or glands opening into it. The abscess f bursts into the urethra, and its cavity is subsequently distended with urine at I each act of micturition ; finally its walls give way, and general extravasation q takes place. In some cases it is probable that the abscess arises from a very limited extravasation of urine into the tissues in the immediate neighbourhood of the urethra, consequent upon ulceration of the mucous membrane behind the stricture. In these cases the signs of perinmal abscess, to be presently described, precede the extravasation often for some days. The part of the urethra that gives way is almost invariably the membranous portion of the canal, just between the layers of the triangular ligament, where it is weak, being least supported by surrounding structures, and usually most dilated and attenuated by the pressure to which it has been subjected. The extravasated urine afterwards finds its way through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, where it is perforated by the urethra, and so beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinseum, by which its course is afterwards directed. This fascia is firmly attached across the perinseum to the free border of the triangular ligament and, along each side, to the rami of the ischium and pubes, as far upwards as the pubic spine, from which point its attachments are continued outwards along Poupart’s ligament to the crest of the ilium. The extravasated urine, therefore, uniformly takes a coui-se forward into the perinseum and scrotum, and upwards upon the external organs of generation, the groins, and the anterior abdominal wall: so that it ascends contrary to gravity rather than soaks back into the more dependent parts of the body, as it would do, were it not for the particular connections of the fascia that has just .been alluded to, I have, however, known the super- ficial fascia to give way, and the urine, then gravitating backward, to give rise to extensive sloughing in the ischio-rectal fossae and about the nates, denuding the rectum. The Local Effects of Extravasated Urine that has become acrid, decomposed, and concentrated by long retention, are most deleterious upon the tissues with which it comes into contact. It acts as a most intense irritant on all that it touches. The vitality of whatever portion of areolar tissue it infiltrates is quickly destroyed; the ti.ssue becoming converted into a kind of putrid stringy slough, intermixed with and soddened by a quantity of fetid dark-coloured acrid pus and urine. '^I'he ravages of extravasated urine are often extensive ; the urethra giving way suddenly behind the stricture, the fluid is driven with all the force of the vital and physical contractility of the over-distended bladder into the perinmum, and thence ra])idly finds its way through the scrotum upwards. lta])id swelling and inliltration, ])artly urinous, partly inflammatory, take place in the scrotum and penis ; these parts become enor- mously distended, rcdematous, crackling, and cmj)hyscmatous. The skin is 8i)ee<lily affected, becoming of a dusky-red or jmr])le colour, and then falling into a state of gangrene. In this way the testes may become denuded, and the cords exposed. It is remarkable, howev'er, if the patient survive these destructive effects, with what rapidity repair goes on in this region. It is seldom that infiltration extends higher than the groins, or the anterior