825 VENTRAL HERNIA. ;ook place from septic peritonitis. The well-known danger of the operation j. bnnerly produced considerable hesitation on the part of the Surgeon, an I lerhaps tempted him to lose time over inefficient means, and this may have n x;en another cause of the excessive mortality. The risk is now gieatly I liminished by the use of antiseptics, and if the operation be performed early I he death-rate is not greater in umbilical than in other forms of hernia. I k)iuetimes, after the external division of the stricture, it will be found that i here is an internal strangulation in the hernia, the gut having slipped hrougli an aperture in the omentum, if so, the edge of this sharply defined •peniug may require division. Sir A. Cooper mentions an umbilical hernia onuing two tumours, having a communication between them ; and South elates a case in which the tumour resembled a figure of 8, a dense areolar »and binding down the middle of the sac. In such cases as these, which are >y no means uncommon, central constriction may require to be divided as well s the stricture at the neck of the sac. Adherent omentum had, I think, „ letter be left in the sac in cases of umbilical hernia ; and gangrenous intestine r omentum must be treated upon general principles. It is not often that trangulation of an umbilical hernia occurs during pregnancy, but, should it do D, the o^xiration must be performed as usual ; this condition does not com- licate the case much, and instances are recorded by Sir A. Cooper, Sir W. iawTence, and others, of its successful perfoiTuance at this period. After ivision of the stricture and reduction of the parts, the wound must be closed y sutures, a drainage-tube being introduced and an antiseptic dressing put on, ver which a broad flannel roller may be firmly applied. AVhen the patient is not too fat, the operation may be completed by removal f the sac after ligatui’ing its neck, and an attempt may be made to close the .ing by sutures. In very fat subjects the strain upon the ring would be so reat that this would very probably fail. It should not be attempted in the bsence of the means of carrying out efficient antiseptic treatment. 1 VENTEAL HERNIA. I im q , .1 n By Ventral Hernise are meant those protrusions of the intestine that ccur through any part of the abdominal wall, except the inguinal, the femoral, the umbilical apertures ; they most commonly occur in the mid-line between le recti muscles, the linea alba appearing to have given way in this situation uring parturition ; and here they may attain an immense size. A case was ace sent to me from the countiy, in which there was a long triangular gap irough the upper part of the abdominal wall, extending from the umbilicus I the ensiform cartilage, through which a protrusion had taken place that was 3arly as large as an adult’s head. These ruptures have also been met with in le lineae semiiunares, and in the hypochondriac and iliac regions; and Cloquet :scribes a case occurring in the lumbar region. When these herniae form the vicinity of the stomach, they are apt to occasion dyspeptic symptoms id much gastric irritation ; but Lawrence is doubtless right in thinking that lese symptoms do not arise from the implication of the stomach, but simjily ora irritation of it. These different protrusions have occasionally lieen met ith as the result of injuries, by which the anterior abdominal wall has been cerated : indeed they seldom, if ever, take place below the mnbilicus, unless iaing from a directly traumatic cause.