PREPARATIONS FOR OVARIOTOMY. 1201 oatieut, must be thoroughly clean, airy, and well ventilated, if possible with in open fire-place. A trustworthy and competent nurse, accustomed to the use of the female catheter, and to the giving of nutrient injections, should be chosen to take sole charge of the case ; she, as well as all. concerned in the operation, ought to be completely free from any taint of recent septic con- :tamination. All sponges and instruments, previously well cleansed, must be immersed in ,ia warm 2j per cent, solution of carbolic acid, and placed within easy reach 'Of the operator’s hand. The silk employed for ligatures, sutures, &c., should be thoroughly purified by soaking in a 5 per cent, solution of the acid for an bhour or two before being used. It is an important rule, for obvious reasons, .carefully to count the sponges and artery-forceps in use immediately before icommencing the operation, so as to prevent the possibility of any subsequent idoubt as to their nnmber. After the bladder has been emptied by means of the catheter, the patient in ;her night-dress and wearing a flannel bed-jacket and warm stockings, is j placed upon the operating table with her head and shoulders comfortably ‘Supported by pillow's. Anaesthesia having been induced, the lower Ihnbs •‘■wrapped in a blanket are secured by a broad strap buckled across just above :the knees, while her hands are fastened on either side of the table. A thin Fig. $)34.—Diagram shewing the incisions in tlio following operations: Ida. and Klb. Ligature of External Iliac according to Aberncthy and according to Cooper. L. Abdominal Nephrectomy. 0. Ovario- tomy. S. Oastr(.«tomy. mackintosh sheet, large enough to entirely cover the patient from the shoulders downwards, and having an opening in the centre four inches by si.x, coated around witli adhesive material, is next applied to the abdomen, of which the skin, previously well cleansed with soap and water, should be sponged over with carbolic lotion before turning on the spray. The Surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, is faced by his assistant on the opposite side of the table. Operation.—No definite rule can be laid down as to the length of the incision, beyond stating that while necessarily proportionate to the size and VOL. II. 4 u Ei I