DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 564 then of course be abiiiidant, but may usually be immediately arrested by the ligature of the divided artery ; indeed, in most cases the bleeding is profuse, owing- to the unavoidable section of nutrient vessels and of large subcutaneous veins, but may generally be readily arrested l)y ligature and pressure. In most I' instances, however, by keeping the edge of the knife carefully against the j tumour, and by drawing it well forward, so as to loosen it in its areolar bed | at each stroke of the scalpel, removal of the morbid mass may be effected without the division of any important vessel or nerve. It is of more con- sequence to avoid a wound of the portio dura or of the chief branches of the i pes anserinus, than even of the temporo-maxillary artery; as incurable paralysis 1 of the face would result from such an injury. Injury to this nerve is best avoided by dissecting out the tumour by incisions parallel to its main trunk and chief branches, and especially by drawing the mass well forward, and directing the knife towards it. If the tumour, though non-malignant, have been allowed to attain an enormous size, developing at its deeper attachments as well as superficially, with large lobes lying behind and under the ramus of the jaw, in close relation Avith the pharynx, the internal carotid, and jugular vein, it Avill not be prudent to attempt its removal. Excision of the Parotid Gland itself is occasionally spoken of, but is very rarely done. I believe that in most cases in which it is stated that complete removal of this gland has been accomplished, tumours overlying and com- pressing it have been mistaken for it. Godlee, in one case in Universit College Hospital, completely removed the gland for an infiltrating growth.! The operation was tedious and difficult, and the facial nerve and carotid artery were necessarily divided. The wound healed Avell, but the gTOAvtl returned and ultimately proA^ed fatal. DISEASES OF THE NECK Congenital Fistulae in the Neck or Branchial Fistulas are of vei7| rare occurrence. They arise from imperfect closure of one of the branchialf clefts, most commonly the lowest (see Fig. 365, Vol. I., p. 974). The fistula] opens on the skin near the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid. It is linec Avith mucous membrane and discharges a small quantity of mucous fluid. A fine probe can usually be passed a considerable distance upwards towards the hyoid bone, and, in rare cases, can be made to enter the jDharynx. Similai congenital fistulee have been met Avith in the middle line of the neck. As thej cause no inconvenience they are better left alone as it is impossible to dost the whole track, and obliteration of the orifice would probably be followed bj the dilatation of the remainder into a cyst. Cystic Tumours in the Neck.—Six varieties of cysts are met Avithin the neck ; 1, the congenital multilocular cysts or cystic hygroma ; 2, nniloculai serous cysts or hydrocele of the neck ; 3, blood-cysts ; 4, deep atheromatoud cysts ; 5, bursal cysts ; and G, true hydatid cysts. The Congenital Multilocular Cysts or Cystic Hygromata are usually situated in the middle line in the subcutaneous tissue in front of the tracheaj Avhere they may attain a good size. Their supposed origin and their structure have been already described (Vol. I., p. 976.) If not too large or too deeply attached they may be removed.