942 UHINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTOALY. owing to tlie stone being impelled against its neck, and thus blocking up the nretlira is a common symptom in children, but ^'ery rare in adults. On the patient lying on his back or on his side, the stream flows again, the situation of the calculus being changed. As a result of the straining and general iiTitation about the genito-urinary organs, Prolapsus of they Anus, accompanied by Tenesmus, is by no means un- common, especially in children ; and in some cases there is very troublesome Priapism. Stone in Elderly Men often gives rise to but feebly marked symptoms. This fact has been specially called attention to by Sir Henry Thompson. He states as the result of his unrivalled experience, that possibly from diminished sensibility of the bladder in elderly men, partly from the frequency, with Avhich only a moderately enlarged prostate, may mask the symptoms, many a man may and does carry a uric acid calculus for three or four years with little or no inconvenience, so that the presence of the stone may easily be overlooked till it attains such a size as to make its removal a serious and possibly a dangerous operation. In these cases the symptoms he regards as most charac- teristic, are slight pricking or smarting at and near the end of the penis, often but not invariably felt during and after the close of mictm’ition ; increased frequency of micturition, less felt at night, and more manifest in the day, espe- cially during exercise ; but if the patient lead a very quiet life this symptom may be wanting. Florid blood in small quantities may appear after more violent exercise, or jolting from any cause. The urine is acid and clear, and often deposits lithates. By sounding the patient when these slight symptoms are present, a small stone may often be detected and removed without appreciable risk. Stone in Children.—The symptoms in children present few peculiarities, except that the patient is often unable clearly to describe what he feels. Pain on movement is indicated by the child’s disinclination to play or run about. Screaming or crying after micturition is common ; the irritation of the stone often leads to incontinence at night, and frequent wetting of the clothes during the day. Constant handling of the penis and pulling of the foreskin till it seems in some cases to be actually lengthened, are also important signs.. With these, straining, with prolapsus of the rectum during mictmition, is usually present, and sudden stoppage of the stream during mictmition is not uncommon. Whenever a child presents these symptoms, he should be at once sounded. If no stone be found, the child must be examined for worms, the irritation of ■\^dlich may give rise to symptoms closely resembling those of stone. A tight phimosis will also cause s^Tnptoms distinguishable from stone only by sounding. Encysted Calculus.—When a stone is enc7jsied,i\\os>Q symptoms that depend upon its being loose and rolling about in the bladder, are necessarily absent; thus there is no stoppage of the urine, this fluid is seldom bloody, and the pain is not materially increased by jolts and rough movement; though there are- weight and pain in the usual situations, and increased frequency of micturi- tion from the pressure and irritation of the calculus. Physical Diagnosis of Stone.—The existence of stone is finally deter- mined by Sounding the Sladder. A Sound is a solid steel instrument shaped like a catheter, but shorter in the curve (Fig. 837), so that it may exiilore thoroughly all jiarts of the bladder.