398 EXCISION OF JOINTS. long, till the patient is exhausted by pain and discharge, and the tissues round the joint perforated by numerous sinuses ; but, on the other band, it can hardly be considered justifiable to resort to excision without a fair effort to cure the disease by simple treatment. Every case must be decided on its own merits, and tlie results obtained will be in proportion to the judgment shown by the Surgeon in selecting the proper cases. In a doubtful case there is another consideration which cannot be altogether discarded in enabling us to form a judgment as to the preferable operation. And it is this, that, in con- sequence of recent improvements in surgical mechanics, artificial limbs are now constructed of so durable and useful a character, as to supply to a great extent the loss sustained by amputation, and this more particularly if the limb have been removed early in life, when the patient can more readily adapt him- self to new methods of progression. Bones of the Leg.—The Tibia is very frequently the seat of caries in the upper and lower epiphyses, and of necrosis in the shaft, requiring partial operation for the removal of the diseased portions. Occasionally a very con- siderable extent of the shaft, indeed the whole of it, may be removed in a state of necrosis, as a loosened sequestrum, from the interior of the periosteum, more Fig. 554.—Limb with Necrosis of Fibula. Fig. 555.—Limb after Remoyal of Fibula. or less consolidated and strengthened by the deposit of new bone. Such opera- tions present nothing special, and the result is usually very satisfactory, the limb that is left being strong, useful, and sound. The Fibula is less frequently the seat of operation, but it, like the tibia may require partial removal. In one case, that of a child six years of age, I successfully removed the whole of the necrosed fibula. This operation is readily done by slitting up the sinuses in a direction so as to expose the sequestrum, which may then be drawm out without difficulty (Figs. 554 and 555). After the operation an inner splint must be applied, in order to obviate the tendency to varus which will ensue. In the case from which the annexed drawings are taken, very considerable reparative action was set up in the periosteum and soft tissues along the line of bone that had been removed, new osseous matters apparently being deposited ; and the child, when examined two years after the operation, had an excellent, well-nourished, and useful limb.