323 SYNO VITIS-ACUTE-^CIIRONIG. membrane increase, until at last it becomes so turgid and distended with blood and eft'iised fluids, that a kind of chemosis results ; a thin purulent-looking fluid is poured out, composed of granular corpuscles—partly migrated leucocytes, and partly desquamated and degenerated endothelial cells—floating in a serous liquid. In all cases of acute synovitis the fringes of the membrane become swollen, and their vessels injected with blood, so that they form prominent red elevations, especially at the margins of the cartilages. The inflammation in such cases frequently extends to the other structures forming the joint, and the disease then forms one variety of acute arthritis. In other cases, gi’anula- tious are thrown out on the looser portions of the membrane, and becoming injected with blood-vessels, constitute fringed and villous membranous expansions, lying upon the subjacent cartilage. Symptoms.—Acute Synovitis.—The symptoms of synovitis consist of pain and heat and distension of the joint, with fluctuation. If it be large and exposed, the pain is severe, especially at night, being gveatly increased by moving or pressing upon the articulation ; it is usually sharp, but when the disease occui’s in rheumatic or gouty constitutions, it is of a gnawing character. In pimulent synovitis fi’om pyaemia, it is usually very superficial, indeed almost cutaneous. On laying the hand on the joint, it will be felt to be hot. The swelling of the affected joint is considerable, and evidently depends on accumulation of fluid within the synovial sac, the extreme outline of which is rendered apparent by the tension to which it is subjected. Thus in the knee it rises up high in the thigh under the vasti, to the extent of three or four inches above the upper border of the patella, the swelling being higher on the inner than the outer side of the limb, whilst in the elbow it rises in the same iLr manner under the tendon of the triceps. There is but little if any effusion ! into the surrounding tissues ; and hence the outline of the joint can be dis- : tinctly felt, and fiuctnation perceived in it. The limb is usually semiflexed, ; for in this position there is the greatest general relaxation of the ligaments. Hand it consequently gives the patient most ease. The joint cannot be moved »without considerable pain. The constitutional febrile disturbance is tolerably > severe, especially if the affection occur in a rheumatic constitution. Chronic Synovitis.—The disease, at first acute, may terminate in a sub- acute or chronic form ; or, subacute at its commencement, it may fall into a chronic condition. Chronic synovitis is characterized by all the symptoms of the acute variety of the disea.se, but in a less severe degree. The swelling and W’eakness of the joint are the most conspicuous local conditions. In some cases, the swelling from accumulated serous fluid is so considerable as to consti- tute a true dropsy of the joint—Hydrartlirosis. This accumulation of fluid, partaking in various degrees of the characters of serum and synovia, is usually preceded or accompanied by evidence of synovial inflammation ; but, though this generally happens, it is not invariably the case, iliehet, in particular, has recorded instances from which it would appear that inflammation is not a necessary or invariable accompaniment of the affection, the synovial mem- 'brane being indeed pretematurally white, and looking as if it had been w^ashed or soddened ; and though these cases are rare, those that commonly present themselves to the Hurgeon being of a decidedly inflammatory character, yet their occasional occurrence is sufficient to establish the existence of a passive, as well as of an inflammatory form of the disease.