479 DISEASES OF THE BURSA PATELHE. iio igniting of the articular ends ; and little if any constitutional disturbance. The inoveinents of flexion and extension of the joint arc free up to a certain point, where they are checked by the mechanical obstacle of the pnrnleub accnmnlation. But the most important diagnostic sign is the relation of the abscess to the patella. In a suppurating bursa, the patella is invisible, being covered by the fluctuating swelling ; in effusion, whether synovial or purulent, into the joint, the patella is above, floating upon the fluid. The Treatment of this conditiouu's simple enough. A free incision must be made to let out the pus, and this should be done if possible before the abscess has e.xtended beyond the natural limits of the bursa. The incision is usually made in the middle line, but better drainage is obtained, and the scar over the knee-cap avoided if the incision be made at the outer side. To do this, a very small puncture may be made in front, and a probe introduced, the point of which may be made to project at the outer limit of the cavity. The probe may then be cut down upon, and a drainage tube introduced, the anterior puncture being allowed to close. If the abscess be of considerable size, an incision must be made on each side, care of course being taken not to cut so deeply as to iiijm-e the capsule of the joint. If antiseptic precautions are taken, it is necessary only to make an opening of sufiicient size to admit a drainage- tube, but imder other circumstances, the incision must be much more free. The burrowing beneath the fascia lata that not mifrequently follows abscess of the bm-sa patelhe, is due first to not opening early enough ; secondly, to insufiicient drainage; and, thirdly, to decomposition of the discharges, and cannot be resrarded as an unavoidable accident of the case. Disease of the Patella.—Sometimes, but very rarely, abscess of the bursa patellm will give rise to disease of the patella itself. Caries of this bone secondary to suppuration of the bursa, is, so far as my experience goes, ex- ceedinsflv rare. I have seen one case of the kind—that of a woman who was in the Hospital, under my care, several years ago. When admitted, she had several flstulous openings on the fore part of the knee-joint, tlu’ough which the probe led down to a rough and carious patella. On inquiry it was ascer- tained that she had had inflammation of the bursa patellm—“ housemaid’s knee ”—which had run on to suppuration, but that the abscess had never been freely laid open. The jwesent condition had resulted from that suppuration. The joint itself was unaffected ; there was no pain in it, and its movements were perfectly free. I laid open the sinuses, and, flnding the anterior surface of the patella soft and carious, removed with the gouge the diseased bone to which they led. About two or three weeks after this, the joint became suddenly swollen, evidently filled with pus, and the seat of acute pain. In consequence of the severity of the symptoms, it became necessary to remove the limb above the kuee. After amputation, it was found that the disease had extended through the patellar cartilage, perforatiug it by a small aperture, and so given rise to suppuration within the joint. Sloughing of the Bursa Patellae occasionally occurs as the result of its inflammation and suppuration. A woman was admitted into the Hospital, in whom this bursa had inflamed and suppurated ; and not only the bursa but also the integuments covering it had sloughed away, leaving in front of the knee a circular ulcer as large as the palm of the hand, having a flabby sur- face, and undennined, purple edges. The patella was not exposed. Under ordinary' treatment, the ulcer slowly healed.