DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 1134 glans and prepuce, distends this structure, and is then squeezed in a fine jet or in a scattered sprinkling stream through the narrowed preputial orifice ; and irritability of the bladder, often presenting symptoms simulating calculus may thus be set up. Calculous concretions may form between the glans and the prepuce in such cases as these, and have been known to do so in enormous numbers. Whishaw, of Fyzabad, removed no fewer than 42() calculi, varying in size from a pin’s head to a small bean, from this situation in the person of a native of India, GO years of age, who came under treatment for what appeared to be a large tumour of tlie end of the penis, the true nature of which was not detected until in removino- it the knife grated against the contained calculi. Various affections of the genito- urinary organs in children, such as incontinence, intermittent flow of urine, hmmaturia, priapism, &c., have been shown by Biyant to be owing to con- genital phimosis. The straining in micturition may give rise also to hernia. Hydrocele of young children will also be found to be very frequently associated with phimosis. Sayi’e has pointed out the important fact that reflex paralysis and various forms of spastic contractions chiefly of the lower limbs are due to the same cause, being readily curable by circumcision. In addition to these I have seen general spasmodic affections in children resembling chorea, resulting fr-om congenital phimosis. At more advanced periods of life I have known it to be a cause of impotence, or rather as interfering with conception in the mfe, the semen after emis- sion being retained under the tight and narrow prepuce until erection had completely subsided. Congenital phimosis especially becomes a source of inconvenience in after-life if any gonorrhoeal or venereal disease be contracted, as it renders exposure of the diseased part difficult or impossible, and interferes with the necessary treatment. In the opinion of some Siu’geons, cancer of the penis, if not directly occasioned, is at all events predisposed to, by congenital phimosis. Acquired Phimosis usually results fr’om repeated attacks of inflammation, or of specific disease in the part, giving rise to solid oedema, or to false hyper- troj^hy of the ]3repuce. In elderly men, phimosis will sometimes slowly come on as a consequence of the irritation set up by cracks, fissures, or superficial ulcerations forming round the pre]3utial orifice, which becomes narrowed, so as to prevent the glans fr'oiu being uncovered. It is not uncommon in gouty subjects from repeated attacks of herpes preputialis. The ])reputial mucous membrane l)ecomes thickened, and can be felt like a, broad band under the loose and possibly slightly oedematous integument of the prepuce. This condition is a source of much irritation and annoyance, and requires relief by dilatation or by circumcision. TreatmPAit.—Every child who has a congenital jfliimosis ought to be circum- cised ; and even those Avho, without having phimosis, have an abnormally long and lax pre]uice, would be improved greatly in cleanliness, health, and morals by being subjected to the saine operation ; and it would be well if the enstom of Eastern nations, whether it be regarded as a religious rite or only as a time- honoured observance, were inore frequent amongst us. Phimosis, when not congenital, must be treated in accordance with its cause ; thus, if it have re- sulted from inflammation, that must be subdued ; if from venereal disease, that must be remedied, when perhaps the contraction and elongation will gradually