DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. iS CHAPTER XXXVIII. — DISEASES OF THE NERYOUS SYSTEM. NEUEITIS. Inflammation of the Nerves, or rather of the Neurilemma, is not of very iinfrequent occurrence, being usually the result of rheumatism, of wounds, or of strains. When Neuritis is rheumatic, it affects principally the nerves of the face and the lower extremity. Symptoms.—These consist of tenderness on pressm’e along the course of the nerve, and severe continuous pains running down its trunk and ramifying along its branches, with occasional violent exacerbations, especially on moving or touching the part, and at night. In very rare cases the disease may assume an acute form, with some swelling along the course of the nerve, and slight pyrexia. Ordinarily the affection is chronic. It is one of the causes of neuralgia. On examination after death in acute cases the sheath of the nerve will be found injected and swollen from inflammatory exudation. In chronic cases the neurilemma may be found indurated and increased in quantity, the nerve fibres being more or less compressed by the new fibroid tissue. Trau- matic neuritis has been already fully described (Yol. I., p. 477). Treatment.—In acute cases this consists in the employment of antiphlogistic means ; cupping or the application of leeches, according to the situation, and poppy- or belladonna-fomentations. In chronic cases blistering or the applica- tion of mustard-plasters along the line of the nerve usually gives relief. The part in which the affected nerve is situated must if possible be kept at perfect rest. When the affection is rheumatic, salicylate of soda is frequently of great use ; in some cases the acetous extract of colchicum is the best remedy ; when it is more chronic, and the pain is chiefly nocturnal, iodide of potassium may advantageously be given. SCIATICA. The characteristic feature of sciatica is pain of a neuralgic character in the course of the great sciatic nerve. The affection is believed in the great majority of cases to be due to chronic rheumatic inflammation of the sheath of the nerve, and some thickening of the neurilemma has been recognized after death in a few cases. In other cases pain of a similar character may be the result of pressure on the nerve by tumours in the pelvis or gluteal region, or occasionally from affection of the cord or disease of the spine in the lower lumbar or sacral region. Sciatica is most common in young adults, and frequently arises from exposure to cold or damp. The Symptoms of sciatica are pain in the buttock, back of the thigh, and the leg below the knee. The pain may amount merely to uneasiness, or be intense and paroxysmal. It is usually aggravated by movement, often to such an extent as to render locomotion impossible. When the pain extends to