626 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. palate perpendicularly on each side, so as to leave a scpiare and mobile central dap. In dividing the levator palati, Pollock ado])ts a different practice from that of Ferg-nsson. Instead of cutting from behind, he passes a ligature through the curtain of the soft ]3alate so as to control it and draw it foi’wards ; then imshing a narrow-bladecl knife through the soft palate to the inner side of the Fig. 722. Sedillot’s Operation for Stapiliyloraphj'. hamular process, he readily divides the muscular fibres by raising the handle and depressing the point. This method of dividing the levator palati, which is analogous to the jdlaii employed and depicted by Sedillot (Figs. 720, 721, 722), aj)]3ears to be more simple and easy of execution than the division of the muscles of the velum from behind. The gap that is left closes without difficulty by granulation, and seems still more to take off tension from the parts. In some cases in which the cleft is limited to the soft palate, which is how- ever otherwise well developed, so that during attempted deglutition with the mouth open the two sides of the fissure meet to a considerable extent, division of the muscles may be dispensed wfith, and two deep sutures of thicker wire introduced to relieve the strain on the finer stitches. The deep stitches may be removed on the fourth or fifth day. Uranoplasty.—Fissures of the Hard Palate are usually closed by means of “ obturators ” made of gold, vulcanite, or ivory. To Warren, of Boston, is undoubtedly due the merit of having been the first to close these fissures by a surgical operation. The operation was first brought before the Profession iu this country by Avery and subsequently by Pollock, who ha'^'e invented some very ingenious instruments for its proper performance. Warren operated by dissecting the soft tissues from the palatal arch between the margin of the cleft and the edge of the gum, and then uniting them in the middle line by means of stitches in the same way as in fissured soft palate. If the arch of the palate be very high, there may be sufficient tissue to meet in the middle line when separated from the bone and allowed to hang down, but it is better not to trust to this, but to make a free incision on each side. The operation is performed in the following way in a case of complete cleft of the hard palate. An incision is made from near the canine tooth parallel to the alveolar margin and about a third of an inch, or less, internal to it, reaching backwards to a little beyond the last molar. A second incision is then made along the edge of the cleft at the junction of the nasal and