EXCISION OF THE THYROID BODY. 571 would think it proper to undertake so serious a procedure for an affection that is not necessarily mortal. Cases, howcYer, occasionally occur in which, from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular vein, the dyspnoea is so excessive, the dysphagia and vertigo so serious, that there is no escape from death except by the removal of the tumour. Of all the methods for the removal of enlarged thyroid gland, P. H. Watson’s operation is probably the safest in execution, and most satisfactory in results. It is done as follows. A free incision is made in the mesial line from the upper to the lower end of the tumour, the hiscia being as freely opened as the skin ; but the delicate tascial investment of the thyroid gland, which is a prolongation of the sheath of the thyroid vessels, should be left intact. The vessels on each side of the tumour, superior and inferior thyroid, are then to be securely ligatured within their sheath, by passing an aneurism-needle round this, and tying them en masse. It is of the first importance that the vessels be tied in and with their sheathing envelope ; for, as Watson truly observes, if this be not done, they will be found to be so fi-agile as to risk being cut through by the ligatures. After ligature of the four sets of supplying vessels, the areolar capsule of the thyroid should be opened by being scratched through in the mesial line, and the mass removed with care and delicacy, aU attachments being divided by blunt-pointed scissors. The principal danger, besides the hsemorrhage, would probably consist in the adliesion of the tumour to the sheath of the vessels, more particularly the internal jugular vein. In one case refeiTed to by W. Greene, this vessel was wounded. Professor Koclier, of Berne, living in a goitrous country, has probably per- formed the operation of excision of bronchocele more frequently than any other Surgeon. He has also been enabled to study the effects of the operation on the after-health of the patients, and his observations in this respect are of interest alike to the physiologist, the surgeon, and the pathologist. His operations may, indeed, be regarded as physiological experiments on the use of the tlm'oid body, on which they throw much light; and as pathological re- searches into the nature of that remarkable disease first described by Sir W. Gull—“ jMyxoedema ”—in which atrophy of the thyroid is an important characteristic. Kocher has partially or wholly excised the thyi'oid body in 101 cases ; of these he was able to trace the after-conditions in 28 cases of partial, and in 18 cases of total extiipation of this organ. In none of the cases of partial excision was any deterioration of general health noticeable. Of the 18 cases of total extirpation, in two only w'as there no change for the worse with regard to the general health, and it was most remarkable, that in one of these cases a vicarious hypertrophy of a small accessory thyroid body had taken place, whilst in the other a return of the goitre had made its appearance. In all the remaining 1(5 cases of total extirpation, more or less marked signs of derangement of general health were manifest. This derangement was of a progressive character, being more noticeable in the oldest, least so in the more recent cases that had been operated on. Professor Kocher describes the symptoms that manifested themselves as occurring in the follow'ing order. Some time after leaving the hospital a sense of fatigue, lassitude, and weariness was experienced in the limbs, with dragging pains in the arms and legs. A sensation of coldness soon was superadded, especially in the hands and feet, which parts in the winter became bluish-red and cold, chilblains making their