4i8 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of the vertebroD in tlicsc cases often takes place soinewliat rapidly, and at the same time the osseous tissue is softened by extension of the rarefying osteitis for some distance from the centre of the disease. In consequence of this the weight of the body above the diseased vertebrae, causes a bending forwards of that portion of the column, and a coiTespoiiding projection backwards of the spinous processes. A vertical section made through a spine thus affected shows the anterior common ligament thickened and swollen. The bodies of the affected vertebrae are softened and partly destroyed, the destruction being almost invariably more extensive anteriorly, as this part is exposed to the ^ greater pressure when the spine is bent forwards. The intervertebral cartilage ; between the two vertebrm has more or less completely disappeared ; if any i remains it will be at the posterior part. The opposed surfaces of the vertebra3 are covered by granulation-tissue, and are sometimes mutually adapted to each other as the result of friction. In the cancellous spaces of the bone on each side the normal medulla has disappeared, and its place is taken by the same tissue. The periosteum covering the remaining portion of the vertebrae and frequently also that of the vertebrm above and below is affected by osteo- antl Ankylosis. Fig. 566.—Caries of Bodies of Lumbar Vertebroe: no attempt at Anky- losis. I I f plastic inflammation, irregular spiculated nodules of new bone being fornied [ beneath it. The spines, the transverse and the articular processes being' unaffected, there is no dislocation, and consequently the spinal canal is but little if at all narrowed. Should the disease cease at this stage, as it frequeiitlj does, the granulation-tissue of the opposed surfaces coalesces, and subse-|: quently becomes developed into bone, and the angle formed by the bending o. the spine is filled up by a buttress of bone formed beneath the periostcmn, anc thus the spine, although retaining its deformed position, may become ai strong as before the disease. (Fig. 565.) In other cases of caries of the spine the disease is more extensive, comnienc ing from many centres, often situated in different vertebrm and unconnec