362 EXCISION OF JOINTS. Conditions of Succkss—For resection to succeed, the following condi- tions appear to me to be necessary. 1. The disease should not he too extensive, so that its removal would entail such ail amount of mutilation of tlic limb, as to render it less useful to the patient than an artificial member would be. This is esfiecially important in the lower extremity. If the bones be so extensively affected as to require to be considerably shortened by several inches—a limb would be left, which, instead of serving as a proper basis of support to the patient, .would be only a useless incumbrance. In the upper extremity, length and strength are of less consequence than in the lower ; the preservation of the hand is the chief thing to aim at, and, if this be effected, the bones may be encroached on to a greater extent than is proper in the lower limb. 2. The disease for which resection is practised should be allowed to become chronic before any operation is undertaken : for this there are two reasons. First, in the acute stage of disorganization of a joint, it is not always possible to say, however unpromising the case may appear, whether ankylosis may not result, so that as useful a limb would be left as could be obtained by resection. And, secondly, if the joint be excised whilst acute and active disease is going on, inflammation and diffuse suppuration of the medullary canal are liable to set in—a condition very apt to be followed by pyaemia. In the only fatal instances of resection of the elbow-joint that I have witnessed, death resulted from this cause ; the operation having been performed whilst the articular affection was acute. 3. The soft parts about the joint must be in a sufficiently healthy state. There are two morbid conditions connected with the soft parts that may interfere with the success of resection. First, they may be so thinned and permeated by sinuses, and so adlierent to the bones, that an insufiicient covering would be left. Or, secondly, the long-continued existence of strumous disease in joints and bones may give rise to great infiltration of the tissues around the articulation with chronic inflammatory products often in a state of fatty degene- ration or containing tubercular centres either caseating or softening. The tissues in this state are incapable of healthy repair. Cj^’onic abscesses form, leaving sinuses when they discharge their contents, and the integuments become blue and doughy ; and the soft parts around the seat of operation fall into a state of strumous disorganization, that prevents ahke the forma- tion of a false joint, osseous ankylosis, or the healing of the wound, and thus leads inevitably to the ultimate amputation of the limb. Even though this exudation-matter do not exist in large quantity, if the joint be peculiarly loose, owing to softening and disorganization of ligamentous and tendinous structures, excision is not very likely to succeed, especially in the ankle or knee. 4. The state of the patient's constitution must necessarily influence the ; Surgeon materially in his determination whether to resect or to amputate. If ; the constitution be tolerably sound, or even if the general health have given ; way as the simple consequence of pain, irritation, and continued discharge, j resection will have a fair prospect of success. In fact, when the patient is j hectic in consequence of continued sujipuration, the removal of the joint or j bone that maintains it may be advantageously practised. But if the patient is suffering ft’om septic fever in consequence of the absorption of tlie discharges from ill-drained cavities opening on the surface by narrow sinuses, the o]ieration [