6q6 operations ON THE AIR-TUllE AND CHEST. of tlie tube to exclude dust. If the operation liave been performed for some i tempoi-aiy obstruction of the glottis, sucli as tlic impaction of a foreif'ii body, the tube may be taken out as soon as the cause is removed, and the wouiid allowed to heal by ^Tanulation. ddic afler-treaiment of tracheotomy for membranous larynyilis rccpiires special attention, as the success of the operation depends almost entirely upon it. 1 he objects in view arc, 1st, to provide a warm moist atmosphere, in order to diminish as far as possible the risk of broncliitis ; 2nd, to keep the tube clean and free ; Mrd, to hasten the separation of the membrane and limit its exten- ' sion ; and 4th, to remove the tube at the earliest possible period. A ivarm moist atmosphere is best provided by placing the child in a bed over which a sort of tent of sheets is reared, supported by pieces of lath or iron attached to the legs of the bedstead. One side of this tent must be left open, and through this opening a current of steam must he introduced from a kettle, to the nozzle of which a tin tube is attached. The best apparatus for ; this purpose is the “ croup kettle,” invented by R. W. Parker, which supplies i a current of warm air mixed with the steam, thus efficiently maintaining ' ventilation as well as warmth and moisture. By its means the temperature i can be easily regulated, so that there is little risk of weakening the child by | over-heating. 2. The tube must be kept dean by frequently remo^^ng the inner part and washing it with warm water and cleaning the inside with a feather. If it is caked inside with dried mucus this will be readily removed by a solution of carbonate of soda. After the fourth day the outer tube also may be removed and cleaned once every twenty-four hours. The patient must be constantly watched day and night, and any mucus that appears at the orifice of the tube during efforts at coughing must be wijDed away with a sponge. 3. To hasten the separation of the membrane and to prevent its exten- sion various substances may be administered by inhalation. Acting on the theory that the formation of the membrane is dependent on the micrococci which are invariably fomid in it, quinine, carbolic acid, creasote and eucalyptus inhalations have been recommended. Carbolic acid, creasote and eucalyptus oil may be administered by adding a few drops to the water in the kettle, from which the steam is being suj)plied. Quinine may be given by means of a spray from a Siegel’s apparatus, the solution used containing about four grains to the ounce. Solvents may be used in the same way to soften the membrane; the best of these is carbonate of soda (gr. xx. to 5].). Lactic acid also has been recommended, but it does not seem to be superior to the soda solution. These substances in spray may be used every two or three hours, the child being wrapped in a mackintosh cloth at the time to avoid wetting the clothes. R. N. Parker, believing that in all cases of membranous laixmgitis the disease is at first local, and that the general symptoms are due to the absorption of the unhealthy products of the local process, insists very strongly on the necessity of clearing these away both at the time of the operation and afterwards. Before inserting the tube he recommends that the incision in the trachea should be held open with hooks or a dilator, while all membrane within reach is removed by means of a feather, which has been previously soaked in a solution of carbonate of soda. In order to clear the larynx the feather may be passed upwards into the mouth. This apparently severe treat- ment has in his hands proved very successful, no fewer than 8 out of 10 cases thus treated having recovered. I