844 INTESTINA L OBSTR VCTION. this has frequently occurred in his practice, and that lie lias been able to prevent the early return of the obstruction by keeping the patient on the restricted diet already mentioned. AVhen other means have failed and the patient is becoming exhausted, operatiN'c interference becomes necessary. AVlien, as is the case in the great majority of cases, the disease is seated in or below the sigmoid flexure, the descending colon may be opened ; but should there be any reason to belie\-e that the obstruction is situated at a higher point the operation must be j^erformed on the right side. In chronic intussusception inflation of the gut may be attempted, and if that fails, the only chance for the patient lies in gastrotomy. In Tiibercular and other forms of chronic peritonitis no operative interference is justiflable. It is in these cases that relief has sometimes been obtained by kneading the abdomen (massage) or by electricity. Operatioks for Intestinal Obstruction.—Gastrotomy, or, as it is more correctly termed, Laparotomy, may be required for acute intestinal obstruction, from—1. Internal strangulation, however produced ; 2. For volvu- lus, or a semi-twist of the large intestine on itself; 3. For intussusception, occasionally when acute and more often when chronic. In performing the operation of gastrotomy, all the rules already laid down for abdominal operations in general must be attended to (p. 75G). The patient must be laid on a high table, the legs being alloAved to hang over the ■ end of it, so as to afford a full view of the abdomen. The anmsthetic having been administered, and the bladder emptied, the incision should be made below the umbilicus in the middle line. If the patient be very fat it may be necessary to enlarge the Avouud upwards. Even in cases, such as intussus- ceptions, in which the tumour is situated on one side of the middle line, the median incision wiU always be found the best. It is accompanied by less Inemorrhage, and leaves less tendency to the occurrence of a ventral hernia. The linea alba then having been exposed, the incision must be carried Enough the abdominal wall until the peritonemn is reached ; this must then be slit up by means of a probe-pointed bistoury guided by the forefinger of the left hand. The incision should at first be only just large enough to admit the hand, which may be introduced, without allowing the intestines to escape. It is possible that in this way the constricting band might be felt and ruptured or the intestine relieved from it. If this cannot be done the hand must be with- drawn, Avhen some of the coils of the small intestine will protrude through the wound, curling over its edges. These must be carefully supported by an assistant, Avho should press upon them with a soft linen towel moistened with a Avarm solution of carbolic acid (1 in 50). By following the intestine along, reducing one part as the next is AvithdraAvn, the obstruction may at last be reached. It is usually recommended to find the collapsed pai’t of the intestine and to follow this upAvards, but this is more easily said than done, as the distended coils of the above usually obscure the empty part below. ^ It Avill usually be found that, hoAvever careful the Surgeon may be, if there is much distension, a large part of the intestine Avill be exposed before the obstruction is found. If there be a hernial constriction formed by a dense adventitious fibroid baud, he may divide the band that constitutes the stricture on a director by means of a probe-pointed bistoury or hernia-knife, or brea' it through with the finger ; or he may AA'ithdraAA' the constricted coil o