DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 440 eflfect a diagnosis in ordinary coxalgia—viz., the pain in movement influencing the hip-joint merely, and the increased length of lirnh', as determined on measuring from the anterior superior spines—will prevent his falling into error as to the true nature of this disease. TreatjMENT.—With respect to treatment I.have but little to say, and that by no means satisfactory. The treatment must be conducted on the same general principles that guide us in the management of cases of carious diseases of the spine. The great object is to prevent the formation of abscess. If the cure be fortunately accomplished, the patient will probably recover with a limb that, though weakened, is but little impaired in utility ; for, the sacro-iliac junction being naturally a fixed joint, it matters little if, in the adult, it become ankylosed by disease. Long-continued rest in the prone position ; fixing the pelvis, hip-joint, and thigh by means of a large leather cap and sj)lint, or a plaster of Paris bandage, which should embrace the whole of the limb from above the crest of the ilium to the sole of the foot; counter- irritation, in the earlier stages, before suppuration has set in (after that has occurred it is worse than useless) ; the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and suitable tonics, are the means to be employed. When abscess foims, this must be opened in a suitable and convenient spot, with antiseptic precautions; and the powers of the patient must be kept up by ordinary dietetic means and medicinal tonics, with the view of procuring ankylosis; but, unfortunately, little advantage usually follows the treatment beyond the mitigation- of suffering and some prolongation of life. When once suppm-ation has set in, our hopes of a cure are materially lessened. I am not prepared to state that the affection is inevitably fatal when it has reached this stage, but certainly in the very great majority of instances it is so ; the profuse discharge from the large abscesses connected with it inducing hectic, and exhausting the powers of life. No operative interference is admissible.