DISEASES OF THE HLADDEH. 1032 Fig. Oil.—Sat-eulus in tlic Willi of the Bladder. bladder to resemble somewhat the inside of one of tlieeavitiesof the heart, with its projeotino-colnmnm cariiem. The hypertrophy is usually dependent on the same cause that has j^iven rise to the chronic inllammatiou, hut in some cases cystitis alone may cause the hypertropliy. J t would,' then, seem to he due to the obstruction caused by the thick ropy mucus, which reijuires g-reater force for its expulsion than healthy urine, and it is conse- quently only an indirect effect of the inflammation. Sacculi arc commonly found projecting at the posterior and lateral parts. These are of two kinds, both of which are formed by projections between the fasciculi of the wall of the bladder. In the first and least common kind, the muscular as well as the mucous coat is pushed outwards ; in the second form, the mucous coat alone forms a kind of heniial protrusion (Fig. Dll). Jn the sacculi thus formed, accumulations of Yarious kinds may take place : mucus, pus, phosphatic dej)Osits, and even calculous concretions, not unfrequently being met with in these situations. The urine, mixed with mucus and pus, retained in these i^ouches, where it undergoes decomposition, is the cause of the great fetor of the urine in such cases, and of the difficulty in cleaning such bladders by washing them out. iSometimes ulceration takes place as a consequence of the irritation of the fetid ;i 2 accumulation, and perforation may occur, followed by peritonitis and death. Ulcer- ation of the mucous membrane and abscesses in the submucous tissue are occasionally met with in bladders which have suffered from chronic cystitis, but they are usually the result of the exacer- bation that often sets in before death. The effect of chronic cystitis in causing disease of the kidney has already been described (p. 904). Symjptoms.—Chronic cystitis gives rise to symptoms closely resembling those of the acute form but differing in degree. The diseased and tender bladder is uuable to bear more than a slight degree of distension without pain, consequently there is a frequent desire to pass water, and the urgency is such that the slightest delay gives rise to considerable sufferiug. This pain before micturition is always one of the most prominent symptoms. The fluid is generally ejected forcibly or even spasmodically, and in small quantities at a time. Its passage may be attended by some pain, but seldom enough to be termed strangury. If the cystitis is not complicated by stone there is distinct relief after micturition. The urine is turbid, always contains an excess ol mucus. In slight cases this is small in amount, but more commonly it becomes abundant, viscid, and glutinous, requiring some force and straining for its expulsion, forming the condition known as Catarrh of the Btaitder. The urine then, unless special means are taken to prevent it, becomes amnioniacal and Fig. 912.—IMicroscopical Appearances in Mu- cus of Vesical Catarrh. 1. 1. Mucus. 2. Epi- thelium. :i. Pus. 4. “ Organic Globules,” met -with in the Urine.