SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 90j DISEASES OF THE GENITO-UEINAKY OEGANS. CHAPTER LXVI. I'^ECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORG-ANS ARISING I FROM SURGICAL CAUSES. —PYiEMIA AND SEPTICiEMIA IN URINARY DISEASES. The great majority of cases of stone in the bladder, stricture of the urethra, cystitis secondary to paralysis, retention from enlarged prostate, tumours of ,:he bladder, and, in short, of every disease tending to hinder the escape of -. .irine from the bladder, or to induce chronic inflammation of that organ, •terminate, if not relieved, by giving rise to fatal disease of the kidneys. This . fact alone is sufficient to make the study of the secondary affections of the kiidney of the greatest importance to the practical Surgeon ; and the obscurity -^vhich suiTounds their diagnosis, and the general impotence of treatment intended for their relief, renders the subject well worthy of the fullest investigation. Morbid Conditions of the Bladder.—If we examine a case in which Jikieath has occurred fi’om one of the above-named diseases, we find that the fj rmucous membrane of the bladder shows signs of both recent and old inflam- matimi. The recent is indicated by the swollen and softened condition of the mucous membrane, and the intense purple of the summits of the rugm, and 'possibly by patches of ulceration, the ulcerated surfaces being often covered by a thick slough closely resembling diphtheritic membrane. The old inflamma- tion is indicated by the dark slate-grey pigmentation which affects the greater part of the mucous membrane, and which has resulted from repeated attacks of intense congestion, in which red blood-corpuscles have become extravasated, and, after breaking up and becoming absorbed, have left their pigment behind ithem. The muscular wall of the bladder is found to be hypertrophied, or not, ■according to circumstances. If, in order to expel the urine, it have been called upon to make a gi’eatly increased pressure on its contents, the hypertrophy will be ver}' marked. If the obstruction to the flow of urine have been of a valvular nature, as is often the case in enlarged prostate, then dilatation of the ! bladder will greatly exceed the hypertrophy of the muscular walls. It may, : therefore, always be supposed, when great hypertrophy with contraction of the i bladder is found, that increased difficulty existed in expelling the urine, but t the increased power of the bladder proved equal to the occasion. When dila- : tation is found combined with hypertrophy, we must conclude that increased j power was required to expel the urine, but the increase of muscular tissue was : not quite sufficient, and that the bladder suffered frequently from over-disten- sion. When dilatation alone is found with scarcely any hypertrophy, we know either that the bladder has been paralysed, or that the obstruction to the exit h A I n I i