401 DISEASE OF THE TARSAL BONES. i i le os calcis, extending even to the cuboid, with very little likelihood of its focceding farther for a length of time. Such disease is limited to the outer irt of the foot, does not involve its integrity, and readily admits of removal operation. But let him have disease springing up in the scaphoid, or in one ■ the cuneiform bones, or in the bases of the second or third metatarsal bones, id the morbid process will rapidly spread through the whole of the anterior id inner part of the tarsus, and, in all probability, no operation of resection n be advantageously employed. Hence the seat of disease influences materially ^ amount and extent, and the kind of operation required. When the foot is affected by strumous disease it becomes painful, the tient being unable to bear upon the toes or anterior ball of the foot. ,'elling of an unifonn character takes place, with tenderness at some point posite the bones or articulations that are chiefly involved; and eventually kcesses form, leaving suiuses through which the probe passes down upon "tened and carious bone. These evidences of disease are usually much irked about the dorsum and sides, where the bones are most superfleial, oi 3 sole being often comparatively free—an important point in reference to eration. The bones that are most frequently the seat of primary disease are the . caneum, the astragalus, the scaphoid, the cuboid, and the metatarsal bone the great toe. When the disease is limited to one or two of these bones, iision is usually practicable ; but when it extends, through the influence of } connecting articulations, to other bones of the tarsus or metatarsus, rtial amputation will probably be required. Primary disease of the articulations of the foot is a less frequent cause of :3ration than caries of the tarsal bones leading secondarily to an implication the contiguous articulations ; and the particular operation required wiU, in Treat measure, depend upon the extent of implication of the synovial mem- i.nes of the foot. When the calcaneo-astragaloid or the calcaneo-cuboid iculations are alone affected, with their contiguous bones, resection of the les and joints implicated will often be attended by very satisfactory results; j when the large anterior tarsal synovial membrane is in a state of chronic ;3ase, either primary or secondaiy to disease of the scaphoid, the cuneiform, of either of the metatarsal bones connected with it, then resection is rcely admissible, and Chopart’s amputation offers the best means of relief, iammation of the large and complicated anterior tarsal synovial membrane amonly commences in disease of the scaphoid. It may, usually, be Dgnized readily enough in its earlier stages by the pain and swelling that take i 3e across the line of articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, pain being greatly increased by bending the foot down, and extending 088 the whole breadth of the foot. Although it is usually most severe at inner side, which is the first affected, yet the external section of this com- : ated articulation, that l^etween the external cuneiform and the cuboid, be- ling involved, causes suffering to be experienced on the outer side of the ■/ as well. J n the more advanced stages of this particular disease, the foot imes a remarkable bulbous or clubbed appearance ; the symmetry of the 1 and the outline of the ankle are unimpaired, but the fore part and domum the foot are greatly swollen, glazed, and sometimes perforated by sinuses charging thin pus. I look upon this disease of the anterior tarsal synovial nbrane as a distinct affection of the foot, requiring to be diagnosed from D D '^1 VOL, II.