4 K 2 TAPPIXa A HYDROCELE. *'55 progi-essive cure by siini)le tappinu- I have several times seen, cliiefly in old men. When a congenital hydrocele has been tapped, the sac soon fills again by drainage into it fi-om the peritoneum ; and, indeed, in such a case the fluid •of an ascites has been drawn oft' by tapping the tunica vaginalis. In tapping a hydrocele a few precautions are necessary, the principal Ixjing to avoid puncturing one of the scrotal veins, or injuring the testis. In the majority of cases the testis is situated at the back of the tumour, and is con- :scquently altogether out of the way of the trochar. Its situation should, however, always be determined before the operation. This may usually be done by pressing with the finger firmly on dilferent points of the sac in succession. The patient will usually be able at once to toll when the testicle is pressed upon by the peculiar “testicular sensation.” The seat of the gland may be ftirther determined by the want of translucency at the spot at which it is situated. The operation is then performed as follows :—1. The trochar should be well greased with antiseptic oil. 2. The patient should bo made to lie down or to sit on a chair, lest he become faint. 3. The Surgeon, then grasping the hydrocele, di-aws the scrotum back so as to make the coverings on the anterior ]3art -of the tumour as thin and smooth as possible. 4. He then selects a spot n little below the middle of the tumour where no vein or blood vessel is visible, and there taps the hydrocele. 5. The trochar should not be thrust in with Fig. 064.—Tapping in Hydrocele : «, Introduction of Trochar: h. Position of Cannula. •ji sudden plunge—this is always painful to and startles the ]iatient—bub -should be steadily pushed forwards, the tumour at the same time being pressed against its point. In this way the operation is almost painless, especially if care is taken to avoid blood-vessels and their accoinjianying nerves. The trochar is to be pushed in directly backwards (Fig. 9G4, a), but as soon as the stylet is withdrawn the cannula should be inclined obliquely upAvards, so as to avoid the chance of pressure against the testis (Fig. IKU, 1)). (». When all the fluid has escaped, the cannula is slowly Avithdrawn, the edges of the small puncture pressed together and covered Avith a bit of plaster, or a little cotton-Avool and •collodion. A suspensory bandage should l)c then put on, and rest enforced for a feAV hours. The fluid sometimes escajies Avith a pulsatory moA'omcnt, apparently communicated by the arteries of the cord. If the testicle have been found in front, the hydrocele should be tapped at the side or behind. Before using the trochar, it is Avell to see that the cannula fits closely round the neck of the stylet; and, above all, that the instrument has not become rusty by having lieen carclcasly put a.sidc after use on a jirevious occasion, the cannula Avhile still Avet having been juit on the trochar.