DIAGXOSIS FROM XON-PULSATING TUMOURS. facts that the pulsation is a distinct lieaving up and down of the tumour, and neither eccentric nor distensile, and that the swelling may often be wholly or partly separated, by raising it up, from the artery lying beneath it. By at- tention to these points, abscesses in the axilla, under the pectorals, at the root of the neck, and in other situations where pulsation may readily be com- municated to the fluid mass, can be distinguished from aneurisms; yet errors in diagnosis have happened, and vill continue to do so, from the intrinsic difficulty of these ctises, and from no want of skill or care on the part of the Surgeon: and those will be most charitable in their criticisms of the mistakes of others, who have most frequently had occasion to ex- .perience these difficulties in their own practice. TTunours that do not pulsate, either by their own vessels or by those that lie beneath them, are not so readily con- foimded with aneurism as the class of ^alfectious that has just been described. ;Yet it must be borne in mind, that in 'Some instances even aneurisms do nob •;pulsate, or but very indistinctly so, having become filled with a dense and firm coagulum. The non-pulsating tumours that chiefly require attention are glcmdu- Jar, or ihijroid swellings, seated over the carotid artery at the root of the neck, or in the popliteal space. If these be of a fluid character, their fluctuation, unvary- ing size, and the want of pulsation in them, 'Sufficiently indicate that they are not coii- ! nected \vith the artery, from which they may also frequently be separated, and upon •which they may be distinctly moved. If solid, they are usually irregular and nodu- lated on the surface, and can frequently be detiiched by the fingers being passed underneath them and raising them from the subjacent ve^el. There is much danger of mistaking a consolidated aneurism vhich is undergoing or has undergone spontaneous cure, and in which there is consequently no pulsation, for a solid tumour of some kind., I ha\ e know n one instance in which the thigh Avas amputated for a very painful solid tumour of the popliteal space, which proved on dissection to be a con- solidated aneurism pressing upon the posterior tibial nerve (Fig. 447). Aneurisms, more particularly those that are diffrised, have not nnfrequently oeen mistaken for abscesses ; and it is no very uncommon thing for a Surgeon •/) be called to an aneurism which, under this supposition, has been diligently •ooulticed, or painted with iodine. I have twice ligatured the external iliac for meurisras of the groin that had been mistaken for abscesses. Occasionally, •ffie more fatal en-or has been committed of puncturing the tumour with the view of letting out pus, when none aiipeared, and, either immediately or after I lapse of a few hours, profuse arterial hfemorrhage ensued. That this acci- VOL. II. Fig. 447.—Section of Aneurism of Calf, under- going spontaneous cure, ■ mistaken for Tu- mour. Limb amputated, (o) Black recent Coagulum lying in centre of Laminated Fi- briue. (h) Posterior Tibial Nerve stretched.