I COXALGIA—ARTHRITIC—FEMORAL. 449 ii Results.—In this, the arthritic form of hip-disease, various terminations may take place ; the result depending greatly upon the constitution of the patient, the nature of the disease, and on the manner in which the affection is treated. In the most favourable circumstances, as the inflammation is sub- dued, the disease falls into the subacute condition, and recovery gradually but very slowly takes place, with a limb that continues stiff and partially ankylosed, as well as wasted and somewhat shortened from disuse. Some- times complete ankylosis occurs without the previous formation of abscess. In the majority of instances, however, abscess forms, and then the patient may either be worn out by the continued irritation of the disease, or by the profuseness of the discharge ; or great shortening taking place, either by the destruction or separation of the head of the bone or its dislocation out of the acetabulum, the cavity of the abscess may ultimately contract, the sequestra, if any are present, may exfoliate, the carious surfaces heal, and the sinuses close after years of suffering. In the most favourable circumstances, when once the joint has been acutely inflamed, a year or perhaps two will elapse before the patient can use his limb with any degree of security. The safety of the patient depends in a great measure on preventing the occurrence of suppura- tion. In a certain proportion of cases in which the disease commences with the acute symptoms above described, suppuration rapidly follows in spite of any treatment. In many of these the arthritis is dependent on acute osteomye- litis and necrosis of the epiphysis of the head, and on opening the abscess this may be found as a sequestrum in the cavity of the joint. Such cases are not distinguishable at first from those in which the disease is purely arthritic, commencing in the soft parts. If the patient be very strumous acute arthritis of the hip, from whatever cause arising, can rarely be prevented from reaching the stage of suppuration, but if the patient be tolerably healthy, and the disease be not due to acute osteomyelitis, suppuration may be avoided, and then recovery may take place with a useful though somewhat stiff and crippled limb. This form of hip-disease is rare in the adult, but should it occur the patient seldom recovers, hectic and exhaustion speedily carrying him off. The lives of children may, however, be saved even in these circumstances ; but they will be left permanently lamed. Pathology.—The pathology of acute arthritic coxalgia is the same as that of acute arthritis in other joints (p. 329). Surgeons have referred its origin to all the component parts of the joint. Aston Key believed the round liga- ment to be very frequently the starting point of the inflammation, and in the ^luseum of University College we have a beautiful wax model, supposed to illnstrate the mode of origin; but it is not possible from this to say whether the disea.se commenced in the ligament itself or in the synovial membrane cover- ing it. Probably all the forms of acute arthritis described as occm’ring in other joints may occur also in tli6 hip. Chronic Stmmous Arthritis of the Hip, White Swelling of the Hip, Femoral Coxalgia. —Symptoms.—The disease usually commences very insidiously. It assumes a subacute character, and is chiefly met Avith in young children. The first symptom that usually attracts attention is, that the child limps and Avalks in a peculiar shuflling, hopping manner ; he does not stand firmly upon both feet, but rests on the toes of the affected limb, the knee of Avhich is bent. The limb Avill be seen to be everted, someAvhat ab- ducted, slightly flexed upon the thigh, Avith the knee partly bent, and appar- AOL. II. Q ri