COMPLETE EXCISION OF THE UPPER JA]Y. 589 3 I ! iji I I I I i' I i • i such as a lithotomy tube, may bo passed between the root of the tongue and the soft palate, through which respiration can be readily carried on. During the operation a good-sized sponge, attached to a piece of string, may be placed in the mouth on the side on which the operation is being performed, care being taken to leave a sufficient space for the passage of air in respiration. It must be remembered, that the patient does not require the whole mouth to breathe through, and if it be carefully managed, a great part of the cavity may be filled with a sponge during the operation. In this way, in ordinary cases, this operation may be performed without a drop of blood passing down the throat. If the tumom- be veiy large and vascular, and much hmmorrhage is expected, it may be advisable to adopt more efficient means to prevent the risk of asphyxia. This danger may be entirely avoided by the method devised by Trendelenburg, and adopted by Langenbeck, in cases of operation about the jaws, palate, or pharynx, in which serious hmmorrhage is anticipated. The patient having been placed under the influence of chloroform, tracheotomy is Fig. (382.—Treiulelonburg’s Trachea-Tampou. 1. The Trachea-tube and Collar slightly inflated. 2. The Inhaling Funnel. 3. The Inflating Bottle attached to the Collar on Trachea-tube. performed in the usual way above the thyroid body. A trachea-tube fitted with a hollow India-rubber collar (Fig. 082, 1) is then introduced, and the inhalation of the anaesthetic vapour earned on through it by attaching, by means of an India-rubber tube, a funnel containing a sponge (Fig. 082, 2). When the Surgeon is about to commence his operation, the collar is inflated by means of the India-rubber ball attached (Fig. 082, 3) ; the effect being to close the trachea round the tube, and thus to cut off all possibility of blood finding its way down the larynx into the bronchi and air-cells. After the operation is completed, the “ trachea-tampon ” is removed, and an ordinary trachea-tube is substituted and retained as long as it may be thought neces- saiy. If this apparatus be not at hand, the desired result may be equally well obtained by perfonning a preliminary laryngotomy and then plugging the pharj'uxwith a large sponge, which can be withdrawn as soon as the operation is over. Macewen has recently suggested, that instead of opening the larynx or trachea a tube should be pas.sed from the mouth through the glottis and the pharynx, the upper opening of the glottis being then plugged with a sponge.