989 HISTORY OF LITHOTRITY. CHAPTER LXIX. URINARY CALCULUS {continued). LITHOTKITY. Thk operation of lithotrity, by which the stone is crushed in the bladder umd the pulverized fragments are expelled or extracted through the urethra, is? of modern, and indeed of very recent invention ; for, notwithstanding that tJ varioiis rude and incomplete attempts may at different times have been made II "with this view, it was not until about the year 1818 or 1820 that the subject began to attract serious attention : and to the French Surgeons is undoubtedly ( due the great merit of having not only introduced but perfected this operation. .About this time Civiale, followed by Amussat, Leroy, and others, began con- 'Structing instruments, which, though very imperfect, yet were sufficient to break down a calculus in the bladder. This was publicly done by Civiale in 1822. From this period the system made rapid progress ; and the successive improvements made by the Sm*geons whose names have just been mentioned, together with the ingenious mechanical adaptations introduced by Charrim’e "land Weiss, enabled Surgeons to attack the stone with certainty and effect. The importance of lithotrity was urged upon the profession by the Avritings, ;(and its applicability demonstrated by the practice of CiAuale, Amussat and IHeurteloup in France and of Brodie and Costello in this country. The [practice thus commenced and established by these Surgeons has from time :to time been improved by the ingenuity and skill of others, amongst ’.whom Sir William Fergusson, William Coulson and Sir Henry Thompson, vwere conspicuous. To Thompson especially the jArofession is indebted for having laid down with precision those rules by which the operation rmay be performed with as much simplicity as safety. Up to the year 11878 the operation of lithotrity continually improved by the combined labours 'of these distinguished Surgeons, aided materially by the skill and ingenuity of : the surgical mechanician, had been practised on the lines originally laid down by Civiale and Brodie. In that year, hoAvever, a new principle in the . operation was introduced by BigeloAV of Boston, by which its practice was 'materially modified, if not completely revolutionized, old rules were discarded, ' new methods introduced, and instruments of novel and ingenious construction devised. In treating of the subject of Lithotrity therefore, the operation will l)e described, first as practised antecedently and up to 1878, and secondly, as done since Bigelow’s operation, to Avhich he has giA'en the someAvhat quaint name of “ Litholapaxy,” has been generally adopted by Surgeons. Lithotrity as practised before 1878.—The iiu'ention of lithotrity Avas surmounted by difficulties of all kinds—anatomical, pathological, and me- chanical—and too much credit cannot be given to those Surgeons and ^Mechanicians by whose unceasing labours, practical skill, and inventiA’c 'V