586 DISEASES OF 'THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES, j growth of this part lias passed beyond the osseous boundaries of the antrum, the question of removal becomes very complicated. J-n reference to this point, I think that it may be stated generally that, if the cheek be freely movable over the tumour, and the sulnnaxillary glands unaffected, the operation may be proceeded with. But, if it have advanced so far as to implicate the soft structures of the cheek, with enlargement of the sulunaxillary glands, it is neither wise nor prudent to interfere with it by operation ; as infiltration will have taken place more widely than the knife can reach, and speedy recurrence must of necessity ensue. So long as it is contained within this cavity, where indeed it is often impossible to ascertain, until after removal, the true nature of the affection, it may be excised, pro\dded the glands in the neck be not greatly enlarged. If they be much implicated, even though the walls of the antrum be not perforated, it is wrong to interfere, as a cure by operative procedure must be hopeless. Whenever the soft struc- tures of the cheek are.involved so as to require partial excision with the tumour, no operation should be performed ; as it cannot be com- j)letely extirpated, and will speedily recur in the cicatrix. When the upper jaw on both sides is affected, as sometimes, though rarely, has happened, it is clear that the tumour can- not be removed (Fig. (579). Operations on the Upper Jaw.—The Operations that have been practised for the removal of tumours springing from the uj>per jaw are of three kinds. They consist of—1, Scooping out of the Tumour; 2, Partial Excision of the Superior Maxilla ; and 3, its Complete Eemoval with or without the Malar Bone. For operations on the upper jaw, the Surgeon will require strong cutting Fig. 679.—MalignantTumonrofthe Uiiiier Jaw, invoh'ing tlie whole of the Bones of the Face : not admitting of Operation. Fig. 680.—Saw with Movable Back, for Operations on the Jaws. pliers, and two or three narrow-bladed saws, wdth handles set at different angles, and having movable backs (Fig. 680). 1. Scooping’ out the Tumour.—The practice of scooping out tumours of the antnim, after turning up the cheek from the anterior surface of the superior maxilla, is one on the jiropriety of which there is a difierence of opinion among Surgeons. liiston, whose experience in these diseases was in his day unrivalled, denounced all “grubbing” operations; and Syine strongly dis-