DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 1138 by a fold of integument—the swollen mucous layer of the prepuce—corresponds to the inner margin of the preputial orifice ; and it is by the division of this, in which the stricture is situated, that immediate relief will be given. This operation may readily be done by drawing the glans forwards, then passing the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel into the sulcus on the dorsum of the penis, and making a perpendicular incision about one third of an inch in length through the integuments at the bottom of the gi’oove directly across it Fig. 955.—Reductiou of Paraphimosis. Fig. 95G.—Incision in Opera- tion for Paraphimosis. (Fig. 956). In consequence of the great stretching of the parts, the incision will immediately gape widely ; so that, instead of being longitudinal, it will appear to be transverse ; and then reduction of the glans may readily be effected. Balanitis.—Inflammation of the prepuce commonly occurs as the result of local irritation from want of cleanliness, not uirfrequently set up by a gonorrhoea. When confined to the prepuce, and constituting 'balanitis, that structure is much swollen, infiltrated, and reddened, and, while the inflamma- tion lasts, continues in a state of phimosis. When the mucous membrane of the glans is affected as well, constituting Posthitis, there is a good deal of irritation and smarting, together with muco-purulent discharge. Treatment.—The disease requires to be treated on ordinary principles. The continued application of lead lotion, with the internal administration of salines, wiU generally remove it; but in many instances the most effectual plan will be found to consist in rapidly sweeping the inflamed surfaces with a stick of nitrate of silver passed down between them on one side of the fi’mnum, and carried round to the opposite side. If the patient is liable to repeated attacks, circumcision should be performed. Herpes of the Glans and Prepuce is characterized by the formation of small vesicles or excoriated points upon the mucous membrane of this region, attended by much smarting and itching, and occun’ing chiefly in persons of a gouty habit of body, ivith an imtable mucous membrane. Treatment.—This slight affection is often veiy rebellious to treatment. In many instances, local means alone will not suffice ; for, though relief may l)e obtained by powdering the part with the oxide of zinc, or by using slightly astringent and cooling lotions, yet no permanent benefit will be derived unless