1144 DISUASJSS OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. preventing- the liability to slough. Should this occur, the case must be treated on ordinary principles, when cicatrization Avill speedily ensue, however extensive the denudation of parts may be. The constitutional management must always be conducted in accordance with those principles laid down in the fii-st division of this work, and with special attention to the maintenance of the patient’s strength. Hypertrophy of the scrotum seldom ocem’s in this country, though Liston once had occasion to remove such a mass, weighing 44 lbs. ; but in some tropical regions, prticularly India and China, it is of frequent occurrence, and may go on until it attain an enormous bulk, forming a tumour nearly as large as the trunk, and perhaps weighing 70 or 80 lbs., or even, as in one f-ase recorded by Larrey, 200 lbs. These enormous growths are of simple character, and constitute the disease termed Elephantiasis Ardbum of the scrotum.(^eQ Vol. I., p. 980). Fig. 960 rejDresents a tumour of this kind, weighing 40 lbs., which was successfully removed by Rogers of the ]\Iamitius. It is taken from a photogi-aph of the case, kindly sent to me by that gentleman. Treatment.—Tumours of this kind necessarily require extirpation. In performing this operation, two points imperatively demand attention. The first is the avoidance of haemorrhage, which in so vascular a region might easily be fatal. The other is the preservation of the penis and testes. The avoidance of haemorrhage may be effected by four methods, which may be employed singly or combined. These are 1, by position, as originally advocated by O’Ferrall in 1844. The patient lying on his back and haA'ing the tumour raised above the level of the body for an hour before the operation. The tumour may at the same time be bandaged so as to compress its vessels, and thus empty them. This method does not prevent the proximal ha3mor- rhage. 1. This proximal haemorrhage may be prevented by one of the following methods :— 1. The application of the aortic compressor. 2. Esmarch’s bandage. Fig. P60.—Elephantiasis of the Scrotinn,