1111 OPERATIONS FOR IMPERMEABLE STRICTURE. : three weeks, attending carefully to his constitutional condition, but without juaking any further eflbrt. He was then placed under chloroform, when I '■succeeded in passing No, 1. The urethra was then dilated up to No. 5, beyond which no instrument could be passed, when the perineal section was performed. The patient made an excellent recovery, the fistulous openings closing, and the urine being discharged by the natural channel. In another case, persevering attempts had been made for five years to make an instrument enter the bladder, but without success, the stricture not only being exces- 'sively tight, but the urethra acutely sensitive ; under chloroform I succeeded in introducing No. | silver catheter into the bladder, and speedily cured the patient. The influence of Ancesthetics in facilitating the passage of instruments through apparently impermeable strictures is very marked. Shortly after the introduc- ■ tion of ether as au anesthetic agent, Liston was going to cut through a stricture that had resisted all attempts made by his most dexterous hand at introducing an instrument into the bladder ; but no sooner was the patient put on the table and rendered insensible, than the No, 8 silver catheter, which had been passed down as far as the stricture, and the point of which was to serve . as a guide to the knife, slipped into the bladder, and thus reudered a dangerous operation unnecessary. Yet no Surgeon can doubt that cases do occasionally, though rarely, occur, in which, in consequence of extravasation of urine and old inflammatory action, the urethra has become so tortuous and narrow, and the perimeum so thickened and indurated, that an instrument cannot be passed through, even though the ui’ine pass out readily. It must be borne in mind that a stricture may be permeable to urine, but impermeable to a catheter, even in the most dexterous hands. It does not follow necessarily that, because a fluid will trickle out of a narrow and tortuous channel, a catheter or solid sound can be passed into it from without. In a case of extravasation of urine following stricture, consequent on injuiy of the periiigeum, under my care at the hospital, in which no catheter had been introduced for eight years, it was found after death that, although the urethra had been converted into a mass of cicatricial tissue at the part injured, it was yet permeated by a narrow tortuous passage, through which the urine had escaped. Hence cases will occasionally occur, in which the perineal section is not practicable. In the event, therefore, of a stricture being so tight and tortuous that no instmment will pass through it, or where, a portion of the urethra having sloughed away, its canal is obliterated, neither the cure by dilatation nor urethrotomy can be performed, and it may then be necessary to have recourse to incision of the stricture without a guide. Operations for Impermeable Stricture.—In operating for the relief of impermeable stricture various means have been adopted, the chief of which are, J, opening the urethra behind the stricture; 2, opening the urethra Ixihind the stricture and cutting forwards tlirough the constriction ; .'I, opening the urethra in front and dividing the stricture from before backwards. 1. Opening the Urethra behind the Stricture, or as it is often called in this country Cock’s operation, is tliiis performed. The patient having been prepared as for lithotomy, the ojxjrator introduces his left fore-flngcr into the rectum. He then takes a broad sharp-pointed knife, which Cock advised should be doulfle-edged, and passes it towards the apex of the