BUNION. 483 pressure the cyst may be made partially to empty itself into the knee, the si^ns of fluid in the joint then becoming apparent. These enlarged bursm in the ham usually cause but little pain. The skin covering the swelling is normal in appearance. The Treatment must be conducted with caution, owing to the close proximity, if not actual connnunication, of the bursal tumour with the joint. Painting with tincture of iodine and blistering with elastic f)res- sure may be first tried ; if that fails aspiration followed by pressure may be tried ; if that is not successful injection with iodine may cure the disease. When eveiything else has failed, antiseptic drainage will usually efiect a cure. In one case, after every other means had failed, Johnson Smith successfully dissected the cyst out, leaving the pedicle which passed under the gastroc- nemius. The operation was performed under the carbolic spray, and the wound treated antiseptically. The Bursa beneath, the Tendo Achillis at the heel is sometimes diseased. It forms a fluctuating swelling on each side of the tendon, and may simulate disease of the ankle-joint. The treatment presents nothing peculiar. Bunion.—When the biu’sa which lies towards the plantar surface of the Fig. 602.—Distorted Foot, from Pressure and Bunion. Fig. 603.—Apparatus for Deformity of Foot as in Fig. 602. head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe becomes enlarged, or when a new sac is formed upon the inner and posterior aspect of this bone, the disease termed a hunion occurs. In this affection, the enlargement of the bursa is usually secondary to an alteration in the shape and position of the great toe, which in consequence of the pressure of narrow-pointed boots, has been thrown outwards in an oblique direction, so as to lie over or under some of the contiguous digits (Fig. G02) ; in this way a sharp angle is formed at the junction between the first phalanx and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. This angle, being constantly pressed upon by the boot, becomes irritated; and, for its protection, the bursa that is there naturally situated becomes enlarged, or an adventitious one forms. From time to time the bursa and the projecting angle become iivitated and inflamed; and the morbid process thus set up may run on to suppuration of a very troublesome kind, a thin, unhealthy pus being formed, which is discharged through an opening I I 2