MOBBID CHANGES IN BUESN:. 477 constantly present, and are those most liable to disease ; but in addition to these a number of less perfectly formed subcutaneous sacs are met Avith in all parts of the body. The most important of these are in the folloAving situations :— behind the angle of the lower jaAv, on the symphysis of the chin; on the acromion, the external and internal condyles of the humerus, the styloid processes of the ulna and radius; on the dorsal surface of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and on the doi-sal aspect of the phalangeal articulations; on the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; on each condyle of the thigh-bone, the tuberosity of the tibia, the tAA'O malleoli, the dorsal aspect of the toes, and on the plantar aspect of the heads of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. Morbid Alterations.—The continued iiTitation of bursm by the pressure that is exercised upon them, may cause them to inflame, to enlarge, to become thickened, or to undergo A^arious other changes in structure. This enlargement of the bursm in particular situations is often connected AAuth special employments, by Avhich continuous and severe pressure is exercised upon certain parts of the body ; thus frequent kneeling Avill occasion enlargement of the bursa patellae, hence called “housemaid’s knee miners are occasionally subject to an enlargement of the bursa lying over the olecranon, hence called “ miner’s elboAV ” (Fig. 601) ; and Aveavers to the same condition in that over the tuber- osity of the ischium, giving rise to “ weaver’s bottom.” The five folloAAung pathological conditions may occur in the bursae in any part of the body :— 1. The bursa may, in con- sequence of continued pressure or irritation, become simply enlarged and filled by the excessive secretion of a clear straw-coloured serous fluid. 2. Inflammation may take place in the biu’sa Avith or Avithout previous enlargement. The inflammation so set up speedily runs on to suppuration ; and Avhen the tumour is opened, fluid, consisting of an admixture of the bursal secretion and pus, escapes. The bursa, when its contents have suppurated, may either give way externally, pointing like an ordinary abscess, and the integuments covering it sloughing ; or the pus may escape subcutaneously beneath the deep fascia, and form a Avidely spreading abscess around the Fig. 601.—Enlarged Bursa over Olecranon—Miner’s Elbow. pirt. 3. The enlarged bursa may contain a dark fluid, usually of a broAvnish colour, with a large number of small flattened elongated bodies of about the size of grains of rice or of melon-seeds, floating in it. These bodies are of a fibroid stnicture, and their mode of origin is not certain. They have been supposed to lie formed in some cases by a fibrinous exudation into the cavity of the bursa, their peculiar form being the result of the moA’-cmeut of the part. In other cases they Imve Ideen supposed to arise from villous groAvths similar to those observed in the synovial membranes of joints. That they may be formed from extravasated blood also seems ]irobal)le from the fact that S. G. Shattock has discovered crystals of hamiatoidin in some of the specimens in