936 IIaJNARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. Fig. 831.—Section of an Altei’nating Calculus. STONE IN THE BLADDER. Structuiik of Calculi.—Ciilculi, tlioiigli sometimes composed throiigliout of the same deposit, are not unfreqiiently made up of layers or strata, differ- ing in cliemical composition from one another, and tliese usually go by the name of alternaiinrj calculi (Fig. 831). Most fre- quently the nucleus consists of uric acid ; ne.vt in the order of frequency comes the oxalate of lime ; and then the concretion of a phosphatic character through- out. It is very seldom that the nucleus is absent; but concretions have occasionally been met Avith in which none could be detected, or in which it was even replaced by a cavity. The nucleus is usually as nearly as possible in the centre of the calculus, and is gene- rally nearly regular in shape ; occasionally, lioweA’^er, it is branched or curiously radiated, and then the con- cretion generally afiPects a corresponding outline. Calculi containing two or three nuclei have sometimes been found, consisting probably of an equal number of concretions agglo- merated together. A foreign body occasionally takes the place of a nucleus. The body of a calculus having the uric acid nucleus is usually composed of the same substance possibly mixed with some urates ; but not unfrequeutly these are incrusted by a deposit of phosphates. In other instances, the body may be wholly composed of some of the earthy phosphates, which more rarely alternate with the oxalate of lime or the triple phosphates. An oxalate of lime nucleus usually has a body of the same constitution ; but in some cases it is incrusted by phosphates or urates (Fig. 832). "When the interior is phosphatic, the concretion is always of the same constitution. The alterations in the composition of a calculus are due to varying con- ditions of the general health, ‘and consequently of the character and constituents of the urine, and of the state of the lining membrane of the bladder. The uric acid and oxalate of lime nuclei and layers are undoubtedly due to constitutional causes. The phosphatic laminm, whether interposed beUveen the uric acid or incrusting the calculus, are dependent on vesical irritation and decomposition of the urine, consequent on the presence in the bladder of the uric ' acid or oxalate of lime nucleus Avhich has been pre- Adously formed. Origin.—Calculi may be formed either in the kidneys or in the bladder. Those that contain nuclei of the urates or oxalates are probably renal in their origin ; whilst those that have a phosphatic nucleus are usually vesical from the first, renal nuclei of this composition being rarely met with. All renal calculi, all those vesical calculi that have a renal origin, and some of those even that appear to be primarily formed in the bladder, have a con- stitutional source; they arise from a morbid state of the urine, which in its turn probably depends upon mal-assimilation, the peculiar form of Avhich .deteraiines the chemical composition of the stone. Those calculi that are formed by deposit from the urine upon and around some foreign body, as a Fig. 832.—Section of Oxalate of Lime Cal- (iuliis incrusted with Phosphates.