35 TETANUS—PATHOLOGY. effects of this kind produced ; the spasms, indeed, being in general not very violent, though continuous and very painful. The only muscles that I have seen torn have been the recti of the abdomen. The intellectual faculties are not disturbed, and the mind continues clear to the last. Cases of tetanus occasionally prove fatal without any elevation of temperature ; but in most instances there are great heat of surface, profuse sweats, and quickness of pulse ; not so much from any febrile disturbance, but apparently from the violence of the muscular contractions. In most cases this symptom is peculiarly marked, especially towards the end of the case, when the temperature may rapidly rise to extraordinary heights. Thus, 'Wunderlich has recorded a case in which it reached 112°'55 Fahr. imme- diately before death. It may rise a few tenths of a degree higher after death in these cases. The prolongation of life appears to depend greatly upon the intensity of the convulsive movements : the more severe these are, the sooner does death result. The fatal termination occurs not so much from any great physical lesion, or disturbance of important parts, as from exhaustion con- sequent on the frequency of the tetanic spasms. Pathology.—There is surely nothing more remarkable in the whole history of disease than that, in consequence of a trivial wound inflicted on a distant part of one of the extremities of the body, an otherwise apparently healthy man should be seized with a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the jaws; that this spasm should extend to the trunk ; and that after a few hours it should be followed by general convulsive movements which will, in the great majority of instances, speedily end in death. It might reasonably be expected that such a train of phenomena would leave the most unmis- takable evidences of the conditions that had given rise to them ; and that pathological anatomy would at once, and in the clearest manner, enable us to unravel the mysterious bonds that connect a graze of the foot with a spasm of the muscles of the neck and jaw. But in this we shall be grievously disappointed; for the morbid appearances found after death from tetanus throw but little light on the real nature of this affection,— so little, indeed, that it has been frequently described as a “ functional di.sease.” But in saying that this or any other disease is functional, we express only our ignorance of its real cause. There is no function without an organ to perform it; and there can be no derangement of a function without a corresponding and concomitant disorder of the organ that pro- duces it. Every “ functional ” disease must, therefore, at last be referred to an organic lesion. The term “ functional ” is employed only when we are not acquainted with the true nature of the disease. As less is known of the real physiology and pathology of the brain and spinal cord than of other organs of the body, we have more “ functional ” diseases of the nervous system than of the circulatory or respiratory. But, as pathological anatomy becomes more studied, and as minute investigations into structure are en- tered upon, so the class of so-called “ functional ” diseases becomes narrower, ^e do not speak of “functional” coma, because we can appreciate the different conditions that occasion compression of the brain ; but we still • sometimes speak of functional convulsive diseases and of fimctional amau- rosis. The ophthalmoscope, however, has shown that “ functional ” amaurosis ■ does not exist, but that the failure of visual power is always dependent on ' some change of structure in the interior of the eye ; and advances in pathology