OPERATIONS FOR CANCER OF TONGUE. 639 divided. The deep fascia must now be opened, and the subinaxillary gland raised and drawn upwards towards the jaw. The tendon of the digastric then comes into view, and a space is exposed bounded below and externally by the curved tendon of the digastric, internally by the free edge of the mylo-hyoid, and above by the ninth nerve accompanied by a small vein. The floor of the space is formed by the part of the hyo-glossus arising from the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must now be picked up care- fully in this space, and divided horizontally, when the lingual artery will come at once into view (Fig. 72o). Care must be taken while exposing the artery not to cut too deeply, as it is separated from the mucous membrane of the pharynx merely by a few fibres of the middle constrictor. Sometimes the stylo-hyoid ligament comes into view ; it may be recognized at once by its pissing upwards and outwards, while the artery is directed iq^wards and inwards. Should it be seen it may be used as a guide to the artery which passes between it and the hyo-glossus. In rare cases the artery lies with the ninth nerve superficial to the hyo-glossus, in which situation it must be sought if not found in its proper place. Operations on the Tongue.—The operations that are practised on the tongue when it is affected by cancer consist in removal of a portion of the ^ organ only, or its complete extirpation from the hyoid bone according to the ■ situation of the disease and the extent to which the tongue is implicated. Unless the disease can be veiy fully and freely extirpated, it is better not to attempt any operation, for in no organ is there a gi’eater tendency to recurrence of cancer than in the tongue. "^^Tien the disease extends to the floor of the mouth, implicates the arches of the palate, or has largely infiltrated the sub- maxillary lymphatic glands, the propriety of operating becomes very doubtful. Even under these circumstances, however, extensive operations have been ' performed with at least temporary benefit in some cases. In determining the ■ cpiestion of operating, much will depend upon the condition of the patient. If he be otherwise in good health, though suffering greatly from the pain of the cancer, and if the secondary affection be limited to the glands below the jaw, which can be removed without difficulty, an operation may be under- taken. If he be greatly exhausted by pain and want of food, and more especially if the glands under the sterno-mastoid are enlarged, an operation would at the best give very temporary relief, and would be very likely to be directly fatal. In all ojKTations upon the tongue, three precautions must be taken ; 1, to P’ig. T2(i.—Apjilication of Screw-Ga", Clieek-Rptractor, and Whipcord, in Operations on tlie Tongue.