12 2 ANEURISM. the artery being ligatured in a diseased part, or by diffuse inflannnation, suppuration, and gangrene in the deeper tissues of the limb operated upon, that recovery after its performance was considered a marvel, and most Surgeons preferred submitting the patient to amputation at once. At the ja’esent time, however, the difficulties, are much diminished 1)y the bloodless method of operating, and the subsequent dangers by the improved methods of treating wounds. The operation may, therefore, be undertaken with less hesitation as a last chance of saving a limb in which an aneurism has become diffused. Its applicability will be further discussed with the special aneurisms in the treatment of which it has been employed. 2. The Iiigature of the Artery on the Cardiac Side of the Aneurism, ■without opening the sac, was first done by Anel, in the year 1710, in a case of brachial aneurism. This operation, though attended with the risk of wounding or inflaming the sac, which was in close proximity to the seat of ligature, constituted a considerable advance in the treatment of the disea.se ; inasmuch as it did not necessarily lead to the opening up of the aneurismal tiunour, and to the dangers that were inseparable from that mode of procedure. As Anel, however, performed his operation as a mere matter of convenience in a particular case, and without the recognition of any new principle of treatment being involved in it, it attracted but little attention at the time, and does not appear to have been repeated by any of the Surgeons of his day. It was reserved for John Hunter to make the great improvement in opera- tive surgery of ligaturing the artery at a distance from the sac, where its coats were healthy, and where there was no danger of hiterference Avith the aneurism itself. In this way the objections to Anel’s operation were avoided : for though, like Anel, Hunter tied the artery on the cardiac side only of the sac, yet he differed from him in doing so in a healthy part of its course, and at a considerable distance above the tumour, where the appli- cation of the ligature would be attended with less risk of haemorrhage, and with no danger of opening, irritating, or inflaming the sac, Avhich is uisepar- able from Anel’s operation. The follo’wing are the reasons, given in Sir Everard Home’s own words, that induced John Himter to adopt the operation that is now generally known in surgery as the Hunterian. “ Mr. Hunter proposed, in performing this operation, that the artery should be taken up at some distance from the diseased part, so as to diminish the risk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily secured should any such accident happen. The force of the circulation being thus taken off from the aneurismal sac, the cause of the disease would, in Mr. Hunter’s opinion, be removed ; and he thought it highly probable that, if the parts were left to themselves, the sac, Avith the coagulated blood contained in it, might be absorbed, and the Avhole of the tumour removed by the action of the animal economy, Avhich Avould consequently render any opening into the sac unnecessary.” Hunter’s first operation was performed in December, 1785, in a case of popliteal aneurism. The femoral artery was ligatured rather below the middle of the thigh, underneath the sartorius muscle ; and fr'om that time his method was almost exclusively employed by Surgeons in the treatment of aneurism, until the introduction of compression in 1842. The Effects produced upon an. aneurismal t"umour by the ligature of the artery according to the Hunterian method, deserve careful attention. The