TUBERCLE SACCULI OF THE BLADDER, 1045 I : !■ ibinuc for a leiij^th of time to require its introduction. If left to themselves, ; though the bladder may become much distended, it will not burst, but will probably empty itself without further trouble, particularly if the patient be put : into a tub and well douched over the hips and loins with cold water. In some i cases, these morbid conditions in women appear to be connected with some : local irritation about the urethra or uterus : and then proper treatment must be directed to these organs before the disease can be removed. ; I’AiNFUL Conditions of the Bladder.—The bladder may be the seat of I severe pain, either continuous or remittent, without any disease being dis- 1 ceniible in it on the closest examination ; the pain being either a kind of neuralgic condition, especially occurring in hysterical or hypochondriacal I patients ; or else being sympathetic with, and dependent on, disease at a a distance, as in the kidneys, uterus, rectum, &c. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that the secretion of acid or irritating urine will, in some individuals, be a source of much and constant suffering ; and that any disease {I 'Seated about, or coming into contact with, the neck of the bladder, as tumom’, ^ 'Stone, &c., it is especially apt to give rise to severe suffering, and will, in many i teases, be accompanied by frequent desire to micturate, with much spasm about cthe part. TUBERCLE OF THE BLADDER. TuberciUar Disease of the bladder appears to be very rarely primary. It is usually an extension from similar disease of the kidney and ureter, or of the prostate. The bladder usually presents the ordinary appearances of chronic cystitis ; liut, in addition to these, ulcers are found slightly raised at •the edge, having a yellow granular surface, and situate exclusively near the i trigone. The symptoms are merely those of chronic cystitis, and often I closely resemble those arising from stone. The urine contains pus, usually i'abundantly. The diagnosis can be made only by the co-existence of tubercular 'disease elsewhere, more especially in the kidneys, prostate and testicles. .'Little can be done in the way of treatment beyond washing out the bladder ro diminish pain and the imtation as far as possible. Morphia-injections ;may give great relief. SACCULI OP THE BLADDER. Sacculi have already been mentioned at pp. 904, 945, and 1032, as arising in connection with over-distension of the bladder or obstruction to the escape of urine from it. These are of small size, not usually exceeding a pigeon’s ' arise, as already described, in the bladders of elderly men who Ihave suffered from severe mechanical obstacles to the passage of the urine, in I the shape of stricture or enlarged prostate, are associated with a generally I thickened fasciculated state of the organ, and appear to be the result of 1 pressure on the contained urine during efforts at expulsion, causing extrusion • of the mucous and serous coats, and j>erhaps of the thinned muscular coat at fsome points of least resistance. Sacs connected with the bladder are, however, occasionally met with, the ♦ origin of which can hardly be explained in this way. I’liese may be single or multiple, and may attain an enormous magnitude. The largest I have seen occurred in a man 35 years of age, otherwise i)erfectly healthy. lie was