CLUB-FOOT. TALIPES EQUINUS. 523 anterior part of the leu; find the peronei. Tn such instances as these, electricity becomes an important adjunct to the more directly siii'U’ical and mechanical treatment. In infants with talipes, Sayre begins treatment at once, as soon as possible after birth, by drawing the foot into position. AVhen this is done, it becomes quite white and bloodless. The traction must then be discontinued, but may be resumed again in a very short time, and so repeated. After a time the limb may be fixed in proper position by the ap])lication and traction of plasters ; and thus if the talipes be not cured, it may very early in life be much ameliorated and rendered more fit for operati^^e treatment. Pathological Changes.—On dissecting a foot affected by talipes, it will be seen Fig. 6.3f).—Talipe.s Eiiuinus. Fig. 640.—Bones in Talipes Equinns. that but little alteration has taken place in the condition of the bones. In some preparations of this kind which are in the University College Museum, these are nearly nonual (Figs. G40, G44). Indeed, in talipes equiuus and calcaneus, they are scarcely if at all altered ; but in talipes varus, if of old standing, the astragalus will generally be . found atrophied, more particularly about its head, which may be somewhat twisted, and the navicular and cuboid bones will be seen to have undergone similar changes. The ligaments are necessarily somewhat altered in shape, being lengthened on the convexity, and shortened on the concavity of the foot; the direction of the tendons is altered, and the muscles, not only of the foot, but of the leg and thigh, are generally atrophied from disuse, so that the limb in old cases is withered and shortened ; indeed, so great an incumbrance may it occasionally become nnder these circumstances, that amputation of the leg may be insisted on by the patient, and with pro])riety l)e performed by the Surgeon. Talipes Eqninns is characterized by elevation of the heel, and tension of the tendo Achillis, In slight cases the heel may merely be raised a few lines above the ground, and it will be found on examination that it cannot be bent fonvardsto an acute or even to a rigid angle with the leg. In severe cases the