SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 2i6 collateral branches : as there would, in this event, he a difficulty in the preser- vation of the vitality of the limb. It is easy to understand that, if the sjic sprang from the axillary, at a little distance above the orifices of the subscapu- lar and circumflex arteries, all that portion of the main trunk which intervenes between the tumour and these vessels might be occluded, and thus hmmorrhage be prevented on suppuration taking place ; whilst the collateral circulation would take place uninterruptedly through these vessels. If this portion of the artery have not been occluded by inflammation, the safety of the patient must depend upon the accident of a coagulum or piece of laminated fibrin being fixed or entangled in the mouth of the sac. This may jn’event for a time the escape of arterial blood, which, on such a plug being loosened, may break forth with impetuosity, and either at once, or by its recurrence at intervals, carry off the patient. Another danger may be superadded in these cases on the suppuration of the sac and the supervention of haamorrhage—namely, the occurrence of inflam- mation of the pleura, lung, and pericardium, from extension inwards of the morbid process going on in the sac. Secondary htemorrhage does not frequently occur in cases of ligature of the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, except as a consequence of suppuration of the sac. I myself have seen but two cases in which death occurred from liEemorrhage taking place from this artery at the part ligatured. One of these happened to Liston, and the preparation is preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons (No. 1695). In this case it may be seen that the artery was diseased at the point ligatured, and that the bleeding occurred, as usual, from the distal side of the ligature. Barwell, taking Koch’s table of 79 cases, and adding to it 11 collected by himself, finds that of 32 deaths occurring in the 90 cases, 10 were from haemorrhage from the site of ligature. i I 1 , j, V •J 1 c I ' I ! Gangrene of the Hand and Arm is but seldom met with as a sequela of the operation we are considering. This is doubtless owing to the freedom of the anastomosing circulation between the branches of the transversalis colli and suprascapular, and those of the subscapular, circumflex, and acromio-thoracic arteries, as well as between the suiDerior and long thoracic and the branches of the intercostals and internal mammary, by which the vitality of the limb is readily maintained. The principal risk from gangrene would doubtless arise from the subscapular artery being in any way occluded or implicated in the disease, as it is on the anastomoses of this vessel that the limb is mainly dependent for its supply of blood. But, at all events, this danger is small, the only case in which it appears to have given rise to a fatal termination being one in which Collis tied the artery ; gangrene of the limb came on after much constitutional disturbance, with rapid, weak pulse, thirsts, sweats, restlessness, and delirium. In Blizard’s case, there were sloughing of the sac, and pericarditis, the gan- grene being confined to two fingers : and in Brodie’s case, it occun*ed in both the lower as well as in the upper extremities, and must, therefore, have pro- ceeded from some constitutional cause altogether independent of the mere arrest of circulation through the subclavian. Failure of the operation to cure the disease if the above accidents arc avoided is a very rare occurrence. A case of this kind occurred to Berkeley Hill in University College Hospital. The subclavian was successfiilly tied for a large axillary aneurism ; there was some inflammation about the sac after