INTRACRANIAL—CAUSES OF DEATH FROM. 187 converted me to the belief that the patient had even temporarily recovered from this condition. Death fi'om rnptnre of the sac appears to he most frequent in younger sub- jects. In the later period of life, aneurism is commonly associated with atheromatous disease of the vessels generally, which may cause death by softening and effusion of blood. According to Gull, of 20 cases occurring in persons under thirty-five years of age, IG (or 80 per cent.) were fatal from rupture of the sac ; while in 37 cases over thirty-five, death occurred fr'om this cause in only 14, or 38 per cent. 3. Death may result from another cause than the pressure of the aneurismal sac or its rupture and the extravasation of its contents—viz., from sofienioig of the suhstemee of the brain to a greater or less extent, in consequence of the obstruction offered to the passage of the blood through the aneurismal vessel. Fig. 474.—Aneurism of the Left Interaal Carotid, bursting into Lateral Ventricle. View of Aneurism from above, projecting into Ventricle. Fig. 475.—View of the same Aneurism from below, imbedded in substance of Hemi- sphere. In the case of aneurism of both carotids, already mentioned as having occurred at University College Hospital, this was the case ; both anterior cerebral lobes were affected with white softening, and this condition was especially observable on that side on which the aneurism was larger. 4. Lastly, death may be produced by the mere irritation occasioned by the pressure of one or more aneurismal tumours within the cranium. Of this an interesting example is afforded by the history of a case of aneurism of both internal carotids, contained in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, and related by Sir G. Blaiie in the Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Medical and CJiiruryical KnoivJedcje, vol. ii. p. 102. In this case the patient, a lady aged GO, had suffered for four years from attacks of giddiness, headache, and imperfect vision ; about sixteen months before her death she became insane, recovered, and then relapsed twice into the same state. After having- regained her senses for some months, she became affected with giddiness, red- nes.s of the eyes, and violent maniacal delirium, which continuing for some weeks caused her death. After death the following appearances were found. “ Upon examining the l>^xly, there was no appearance in the brain itself that could in any way account for the symptoms. There was, indeed, a gi’catcr quantity of fluid than common