261 OSTEITIS AFFECTING COMPACT TISSUE. f ( I I < ft ) I and subsequently calcified, tlie rcinaiiiing cells forming the bone-corpuscles. The development of the inflammatory new growth into bone commences at the points most distant from the vessels, and gradually encroaches on them till they come to lie in channels surrounded by bone (Haversian canals). "We have before seen that the same changes occur in the foimation of callus in the repair of a fracture (Yol. I., p. 505), but in these circumstances cartilage occa- sionally appeal’s before the development of bone. This is never met with in osteoplastic periostitis arising from other causes. Billroth is of opinion that the new bone developed in osteoplastic periostitis is not always formed solely from the periosteum. That it is so in those cases iu which the compact tissue beneath is dead is of course evident, but in other cases he believes that granulation-tissue sprouting out of the openings of the ' Havereian canals takes part in the process. In the union of fi-actures the callus is partly formed from the injured soft parts superficial to the periosteum. Chronic Suppurative Periostitis is not common, but occasionally the • periosteum is found separated from the bone by a small quantity of curdy pus : such as is met Avith in chronic abscesses elsewhere. It is usually merely a ! secondary process, being dependent on some of the destructHe changes to be r subsequently described as commencing in the bone beneath. Syphilitic Periostitis and Gummata of the Periosteum have been ah’eady i described (Yol. I., p. 1115). Any localized chronic inflammatory swelling of the periosteum, whether I simple or SAphilitic, and whether accompanied by the foi’mation of a new bone j or not, is commonly termed a node. iNFLAilAIATORY PROCESSES AFFECTING THE COMPACT TiSSUE OF A BONE.— The compact tissue of bone is composed of lamellm arranged for the most part ■ concentrically around the Haversian canals. Beneath the periosteum the lamellm lose their concentric arrangement and lie parallel to the surface. Between the lamellfe lie the bone corpuscles in the lacunm and from these the fine canaliculi pass through the bony tissue. The Haversian canals are narrowest near the surface, and gradually increase in size toAvards the deeper parts, so that the compact and the cancellous tissue gradually merge into each other Avithout any sharp line of distinction between them. Each Haversian canal, except the very smallest, contains a small artery and vein, a flattened IjTuphatic vessel, and a pale nerve-fibre, sun’ounded by a small amount of delicate connective tissue containing branched cells. There is no reason to believe that the bone-corpuscles take any active part in the inflammatory processes in bone ; all the changes observed proceed from the Haversian canals. The nature of the tissue in Avhich the inflammation is taking place necessarily causes some modifications in the phenomena. Exudation and migi’ation of the,cor- pnscles occurs as in other structures, but the amount is someAvhat limited by the unyielding nature of the surrounding tissue. The SAA^elling of the delicate connective tissue in the Haversian canals Avill moreover tend to compress the vessels, and thus in acute inflammation of compact bone death of the affected part is verj- prone to occur from aircst of the floAV of blood through it. Should this not happen, Ave sec the same changes occurring as in other tissues; the iicAv cells increase in number and the original tissue disappears before them. In bone this process is necessarily slow on account of the density of the structure, but ultimately a portion of the solid bone may lie as completely destroyed