WHITE SWELLING OF KNEE—FREE INCISIONS. 391 I walking, a patten is worn on the boot of the sound side, so as to equalize the length of the two limbs (Fig. 549). A broad strap may bo carried from the < splint over the opposite shoulder, as in Fig. 549, but if the e.xteusion apparatus is properly fixed to the leg, and the tapes tied sufficiently tightly, this is not necessary. A Thomas’s splint applied as above described is perhaps the most perfect apparatus ever invented for fixing the knee. If, however, all the de- tails are not attended to, it becomes as useless as any other form of splint. Even if the limb is flexed to a considerable angle, the Thomas’s splint may be applied as above described, slight modifications being made to suit the altered position of the limb. After a few weeks in bed the limb will usually become •• straight, if no ankylosis exists. During the time that the limb is on the splint the accessory means of At^treatment, such as counter-irritation or pressure by an elastic bandage, may be f L employed, should they be considered necessary ; but in a large proportion of cases simple rest is all that is required. If the joint improves under this ; treatment it must be patiently continued for many months, or even a year or more. Should the joint continue to enlarge, and abscesses form in spite of : the treatment, or should the case be seen for the first time after these com- plications have arisen, operative interference is required. It is not necessary, however, to have immediate recourse to excision or amputation. If the general health of the patient is good, and his surroundings favom’able, an attempt may be made to save the ends of the bones by making free incisions along the lateral aspects of the joint as far back as possible, so as to drain the ca'sdty thoroughly. If they are made too near the patella a pouch is left behind the a Tt iSi incision on each side, in which the discharges may accumulate. The incisions should extend from the level of the upper limit of the pouch of synovial membrane above the patella to the head of the tibia. If an abscess be found burrowing beyond this point, the knife must be carried further, so as to lay it freely open. The incisions having been made, the pulpy granulation-tissue nifefilling the cavity of the joint may be freely scraped away with a sharp spoon, t Band if a carious patch be felt on either of the bones this also may be treated in ! S L the same way. In some cases sequestra may be found, and removed. By this 1)1 rmode of treatment good results have been obtained by H. 0. Thomas and V IRushton Parker of Liverpool. It is specially adapted to children under V i fourteen or fifteen years of age, and the younger the child the better hope -I*-1 there is of success. In adults it is rarely to be recommended ; nor is it prac- ' ticable when the bones are extensively destroyed. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions. In the after-treatment I drainage-tubes are not necessary if the incisions are sufficiently free. The » ' dressing must be changed at the end of the first twenty-four hours, as it will be soaked by the abundant bloody and serous discharge which flows away im- fc t mediately after the operation. An antiseptic cotton-wool di’essing, either of ! iodoform- or salicylic wool may then be applied, enveloping the knee widely on If ■ each side, and suiTounding the splint. This may be left undisturbed till some IjB- discharge soaks out, unless severe pain or elevation of temperature indicate ^ that all is not going on well. Konig strongly recommends the application of M some iodoform to the inside of the joint at the operation. Should the treat- J ^ ment fail to arrest the disease, the incisions can be utilized in a subsequent w excision or amputation. # When the foregoing methods fail, or in cases not adapted to the treatment