1118 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. nence, more especially Paget of Leicester, have strongly recommended and often practised it. This operation, which has been discussed at p. 1005, is un- doubtedly easy of performance, and sufficiently safe, though not free from the danger of infiltration of urine into the tissues around the puncture, and of the inconvenience of a fistulous opening being left. There is one class of cases to which it appears to be especially applicable, and in which I have had occasion to practise it; viz., those cases of retention from impassable stricture, in which there co-exists an enlargement of the prostate, rendering puncture through the rectum impossible, the Surgeon’s finger not being able to reach beyond the enlarged prostate ; and here undoubtedly the safest, if not the only course to pursue, is the suprapubic puncture. In some cases of impermeable stricture, Paget has established a permanent fistulous opening above the pubes, the patient wearing a tube, through which he passed his water. Sir Henry Thompson also has adopted a similar proceeding in some cases of disease of the bladder with painful and frequent micturition, in which catheterism could not be carried out. Brainard has suggested that, after tapping above the pubes, especially if the cause of difficulty in passing an instrument has been in great part the presence of false passages, an attempt may be made to pass instruments from the bladder down the urethra. 5. The Employment of the Aspirator for the purpose of emptying an over-distended bladder is, however, upon the whole the simplest method of treatment, and should be preferred to any of the j^receding plans, in the first instance at all events. The perforating trochar of the aspirator should be passed directly into the bladder above the pubes. The operation is a simple one, and with a little care is perfectly safe. The chief j)oints are not to thrust the needle too deeply, to direct it well behind the pubes, and gently to withdraw it before the whole of the urine has escaped, so as to prevent the emptied bladder from collapsing upon and being wounded by its point (see p. 697, Vol. II.). After the bladder has been punctured, either through the rectum or above the pubes, means must be taken to restore the calibre of the urethra, so as to prevent the orifice of the puncture from degenerating into a permanent fistulous opening. With this view the cannula should be left in the bladder, and the urine allowed to discharge through it for from four to six days. At the expiration of this time, should no mine have passed by the urethra, the stricture in the canal will be found to be relaxed, and a small instrument may usually without much difficulty be introduced into the bladder, where it should be retained, the cannula being withdrawn. The cure of the stricture by dilatation may then be proceeded with in the usual way. In connection with this subject, it may be stated that Pimctureof ihe Bladder may be required for the following conditions :— 1. Impermeable stricture (through rectum). 2. Complete rupture of urethra (through rectum). 3. Enlarged prostate (above pubes). Extravasation of Urine is one of the most dangerous and fatal results of nnrclieved retention. This accident may occur in consequence of rupture of the dilated portion of the urethra which is immediately bcliind the stricture. It then occurs suddenly, the patient, while suffering from retention, feeling something give way during a violent effort at micturition, and at the same ■ f a