I MEDIAN LITHOTOMY, 977 iiul neck of the bladder ; or, to use the words of Le Cat, “ small incision ; much dilatation.” Its results were, however, so unsuccessful, that it fell into entire disuse here, ;md almost so on the continent, merely appearing from time to time under vrarions modifications at one or other of the continental schools. This condition iDf things prevailed until a new form of median operation was devised by .iVllarton, who with great pei-severaiice and equal ability urged it upon the ittention of Surgeons in this country, by whom it has now been extensively oractised. Operation.—This operation, for the introduction of which into modern ..urgery the greatest credit is due to Allartou, is performed as follows. A stalF, . .:;rooved along its convexity, having been inserted into the bladder, the patient 'S tied up in the usual manner ; the Surgeon then, sitting in front, introduces lis left index finger into the rectum, and feels for the apex of the prostate, against which he keeps it lodged, in order to judge of the distance of the pros- ^rte from the surface, to act as a guide to the knife, and prevent the rectum rrom being wounded. A straight-backed bistoury is now entered half an inch ilbove the anal aperture, and Fig. SCO.—SIcdian Operation witli Eectangular Stafl'. •ushed straight forwards, to a .epth of about an inch and a lalf in the mesial line, so as to inter, if possible, the groove of die staff at the apex of the prostate. A small incision np- rards is then made in the groove ■ f the staff, and, as the knife is nthdrawn, the incision in the kkin is also extended upwards : e knife is then laid aside, and i long ball-pointed probe is intro- i uced into the bladder along the rroove of the staff, which is then rithdrawn. The probe is now le only guide to the bladder; and up to this point, therefore, there is but tttle, if any, difference between the modern median and the old Marian perations, except that the incision is exactly in, instead of a little to one de of, the middle line. The forefinger is now introduced along the probe, 1 id by working it forwards the prostate is dilated, and the finger enters the ladder, when, the probe being removed, the forceps is introduced, and the cne extracted. Thus it will be seen that the only real point of difference yfltretween thi.s and the old Marian operation, is that in the modern median . le finger is used as the dilator, whilst in the Marian the prostate and neck of le bladder were forcibly expanded or torn open by the use of instruments ; ■ difference, however, of no slight moment. I have found it advantageous to modify this operation in one or two points. ! he fii-st, which I think of some utility, is to use, instead of the ordinary curved ■ •aff, a rectangular one grooved from about one inch above the elbow nearly '' the point, resembling the staff introduced by Buchanan of Glasgow (Fig. h'.). Its use and advantages are that, when in the bladder, the angle rests j;ain3t the aixjx of tlie prostate, and can be felt in the perinmum, and the VOL. II. tt ■S Wil (•ivl