HERNIA. 8o4 j?as may he recognized as soon as it enters, d’he needle is now introduced into that part of the tumour, where, from resonance or percussion, or elastic feel, the gut is supposed to lie, and as soon as its eye is covered the vacuum is turned on. The needle must now be carefully and steadily jmshed onwards. If there be fluid in the sac this will rise into the syringe, and as soon as it ceases to flow, the needle must be again carefully pushed onwards, until, from the appearance of gas or faecal matter in the syringe, it is known that the gut is reached. The needle must be held steadily and pushed in one direction onl}'-, as any lateral movement would tend to scratch or tear the gut. The gas may be sufficient in quantity to All the vacuum, and if this occur, the cock must be turned, the sjn’inge emptied, and a fresh vacuum made. If one 13uncture ffiils to diminish the bulk of the tumour, the needle must be with- drawn and inserted at a fresh spot, and this may be repeated two or three times. If the needle become plugged, it is better to abandon the operation at once, as further attempts would probably meet with no better success. After the operation taxis may be immediately employed, and if it fail the ordinaiy operation must be jDerformed. Aspiration has been performed sufficiently often to show that if needles of the proper size be used carefully, it is almost, if not absolutely, innocuous. Dieulafoy records 27 cases, 20 of which were suc- cessful, reduction of the gut by taxis following the operation. In the remaining 7 it was harmless, and of these 3 died and 4 recovered, after the ordinary operation for hernia. Other Surgeons have not succeeded in obtaining such satisfactory results. At University College Hospital aspiration has been tried 7 times. In 1 case only was it followed by reduction ; in 1 the fluid from the sac only was withdrawn, yet the impulse returned and the patient recovered, though the hernia remained unreduced ; in 4 it failed entirely, and the ordinary operation was performed in 3 cases successfully. In the fatal case two days after the operation the punctm’es could not he found at the post-mortem examination. In the remaining case the patient Avas moribund at the time, and died a few minutes after the operation. At the post-mortem no gas or fluid could be squeezed from the punctm*es in the gut. It seems, therefore, that the danger of faecal extravasation is very small, although it is said to have occurred. The operation may fairly be tried in suitable cases, especially when the hernia is very large and resonant on percussion, and only recently strangulated. It would be unAvise to attempt it Avhen from the duration of the strangulation inflammation or gangrene of the gut might be suspected.