1167 CIIROXIC 1N FLAM MAT lOXS OF THE TESTJS. •:>i however, it probably escapes, being held out of the way with the vas deferens, .)( blit observations on the dead body show that this is not always the case. ' Since the introduction of the antiseptic treatment of wounds the risk of t pyaemia following ligature of a vein is so completely abolished that the opera- { tion of exposing the enlarged veins and tymg them may be safely undertaken, j It is thus performed. X small incision, one inch in length, is made over the {■spermatic cord, commencing about one inch below the external abdominal ring. The skin and superficial fiiscia are then dissected carefully through, until this cord is exposed. An assistant then grasps the cord immediately above and i below the incision, and squeezes it forwards till it projects from the wound, i The veins are then isolated, and a double ligature of carbolized catgut or silk i is passed under each by means of an aneurism-needle. The veins are then » divided between the ligatures, which are cut short, and dropped into the t wound. If the incision is made high enough up, two or three veins at most ' will require ligature. The wound is then closed, a small drain being laid in : its lower angle, and an antiseptic dressing is applied. It is dressed at the end of twenty-four to forty-eight hours, and the drain removed. At the second ; dressing, which should be at the end of a week, the small wound will usually ■ be found to have united by the first intention. The operation has the great advantage of causing no pain during the after-treatment, and it is certainly as safe as any other. It has been repeatedly performed in University College Hospital with the best results. Pearce Gould has also operated successfully on a considerable number of cases, by dividing the veins with a galvanic cautery, the wire being passed round them from a small puncture in the skin. SOLID ENLARGEMENTS OP THE TESTIS. All tumours of the testicle were formerly classed together under the generic term of Sarcocele ; and when they were conjoined with fluid accumu- lations in the tunica vaginalis, they were termed Hydro-sarcocele. The term is of little use ; but so long as it is understood that it means no more than a solid enlargement of the testicle, there is no harm in using it. Solid enlargements of the testicle may be di\’ided into the Simiile, the SyphilHk, the I'ul&rcular, and the true Tumours of the Testicle. Chronic Orchitis.—Simple Sarcocele is a chronic enlargement of the testis resulting from inflammatory mischief in the organ, not arising from SA^philis or deposit of tubercle. It is, in fact, chronic orchitis. Both the epididymis and the body of the gland are usually affected. The testicle feels hard, smooth, solid, though perhaps slightly elastic at points : it is ovoid in shape, and usually about as large as a duck’s egg. It is heavv and but slightly painful, and, except in very old cases, the peculiar sensa- tion felt on squeezing a testicle is present. The cord is usually somewhat thickened, and, as well as the groin, is the seat of pain of a dragging chai-actcr. The tunica vaginalis occasionally contains serous fluid lying in front of and obscuring the testis. The scrotum is always healthy, and usually one testicle only is affected. Occasionally sim])le chronic inflammation may slowly give rise to suppuration, and one or more abscesses may form, especially in strumous subjects. In thesii circumstances, a part of the indurated testicle softens and becomes prominent, the skin becomes red, shining and thinned, and adhesions form between it and the gland beneath. At last the abscess bursts and a