APPLICATION OF NITRATE OF SILVER TO LARYNN. 673 ordinary spray-douolio, such as is used for iirocnriiig aiunsthcsia by the local application of ether. But of all these astringents none equals in value the t topical application of a solution of the nitrate of silver, which ma\ be looked upon almost as specific in the simpler forms of this disease. The practice of treating chronic disease of the larynx by the application of a strong solution of the nitrate of silver is by no means of recent origin. IMany veal's ago it was employed by Sir C. Bell: and before him Bretonneau applied the solution in these cases by means of a sponge attached to a piece of ■ whale-bone. Subsequently the practice was brought very prominently before the profession by Trousseau, and by the American Surgeons, especially Horace Green and J. ^Varren. ' Of the great value of this treatment in laryngeal tdiscasc there can be no doubt. Other astringents are preferred by some [NSui'geons at the present time; thus Mackenzie recommends chloride of zinc ^gr. XX. to 5j'), but none seems really superior to the nitrate of silver. The .astringent must be accurately applied to the inflamed part by the help of the ...aryngoscope by means of a small piece of sponge firmly attached to a curved vhale-bone stick (Fig. 749) or a camel’s-hair pencil, attached to a piece of ■ vire bent to the proper angle and set in a handle. In the absence of the aryngoscope, if the tongue be well depressed with a proper spatula, the solution rmay be applied after a little practice with almost equal certainty. The solution of nitrate of sih'er should vai-y in strength from half a drachm to a drachm of hhe salt to an ounce of distilled water; most commonly, the latter strength will (>emost useful. This plan of treatment has been extensively practised, and with considerable success in a large number of cases. Some of its advocates, how- ever, not content with curing in this way disease that is visibly seated in the throat, state that the morbid condition extends down the trachea into the >ronchi, and that it is necessary to follow it in these situations. They ?,ccordingly speak of passing the probang or brush between and beyond the 'ocal cords, and of sponging and mopping out the interior of the larynx and ; he lower parts of the air-tube, and of applying the caustic solution to them, «s if this were a proceeding that could be adopted with as little difficulty as luassing the sponge into the nares. I cannot believe, however, that this ^•ractice, though commonly spoken about and professedly employed, is ever in eality carried out. The utmost that can be done is that, guided by the laryngoscope, a small 'ni.sh may be momentarily passed between the vocal cords, but the spasm so laused renders it impossible to do more. Other instruments have also been assed beyond the tnic cords, and warty gi'owths have been in this way removed 'om the cords themselves ; but the moment they arc touched, spasm occurs, ’he most that can be done is a sudden touch of a brush or snatch with a r)rcej)S or loop of wire. Any more deliberate proceeding is impossible. Inhalation of the Nitrate of Silver in Powder is occasionally useful in -OSes in which the follicles about the opening of the glottis arc much enlarged, t is most conveniently done by mixing it, in proper proportions, with some