2 68 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. and sometimes the cells in tlie lacimm are represented merely by oil globules. This is due to interference with the nutrition of the osseous tissue consequent on the changes occurring in the medulla of the cancellous spaces. Finally the bony tissue in the atlected area may entirely disappear, the Avhole space being occupied by soft vascular granulation-tissue. This may be taken as the type of the process, but numerous modifications occur which require further consideration. {a.) The granulation-tissue may grow exuberantly, with rapid destraction of the bony cancelli, and if reaching a surface, as the cavity of a joint, may form fungating projections. This form is termed fimgating caries or caries fimgosa. It is most common in the articular ends of bones. {!).') After destruction of the bony matter the granulation-tissue may be absorbed and waste away without suppuration. This is most common where the diseased surface is exposed to pressure, as in the bodies of the vertebrae, or occasionally in joints. It leads to a progressive destruction of tissue, and from the absence of suppuration has been termed dry caries or caries sicca. (c.) The granulation-tissue after destruction of the bony cancelli may break down into pus. When this occm-s in the centre of a bone, the result is the Fig. 49S.—Scrofulous Vomica in Head of Tibia. Fig. 499.—Chronic rarefactive o.steitis of the Cancellous Tissue, with caseation of the inflanimatorj’ produets. formation of a chronic abscess surrounded by bone on all sides—the chronic abscess of bone. When the disease is situated near or on the surface of a short bone the periosteum is first raised by the pus and subsequently perforated, the chronic abscess then finding its way slowly to the surface. This forms the most common variety of ordinary caries tviih swpimration. In cases of wound of a joint with septic suppuration, after the cartilages have been destroyed, the exposed cancellous tissue is affected by a somewhat acute fonn of rarefying osteitis, in which the destruction of the granulation-tissue by suppuration follows closely on that of the bony caneelli. This is sometimes called traumatic caries, but is more commonly termed utcei'ation of bone. (di) The inflammatoi’y process may end in suppuration before the cancelli