CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 1^5 disease, the epididymis is almost always tlie starting point of the disease, and is enlarged more than the body ; in syphilitic sarcocele, the body is first and almost exclusively aflected. In chronic orchitis, the enlargement is usually uniform and smooth, and fluctuation is rarely present; in tubercular sarcocele, the enlarged epididymis is craggy and nodular, and spots of softening may be felt ; in syphilitic sarcocele, the body of the gland is greatly indurated, often nodulated, and softening is very rare. The testicle is usually painful and tender in chronic orchitis; in tubercular sarcocele it is sometimes tender, seldom painful ; in syphilitic disease, it is almost invariably perfectly painless, and free from tenderness. The constitutional condition of the patient should also be carefully inquired into. Chronic orchitis usually arises as a sequence of injury, or perhaps gonorrhoea, in patients possibly strumous, gouty, or rheumatic ; tubercular disease occurs almost always in cachectic subjects, with a tubercular history and a tendency to phthisis. The lungs should therefore l3e carefully examined. In syphilitic sarcocele, the ordinary symptoms of constitutional syphilis may be present, or a syphilitic history may be obtained. Ill tubercular sarcocele, the vesiculm seminales may often be felt to be enlarged through the rectum. Cystic Disease of the Testis, or Cystic Sarcoma of the Testis, or Cystic Sarcocele.—In this disease the testis becomes enlarged, indurated, of a yellowish-white opaque appearance, and studded with a multitude of cysts, that vary in size from a pin’s head to a cheny, containing clear amber- coloured or brownish fluid (Fig. 977). The disease may run a simple or a malignant course. The en- larged testicle may reach a very great size, without showing any signs of general malignancy. In the simpler forms, the disease somewhat resembles the adeno-sarcoma of the mamma. The new growth is found to be composed of a stroma, consisting of various inodiflcations of connective tissue in all stages of growth, in the midst of which are spaces lined with epithelium. The stroma shows great irregularity of structure. In the same specimen may be found flbroid tissue, cartilage, myxoma-tissue, spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma-tissue. Paget has found the (rartilage to be arranged in beaded branching lines, resembling the course and shape of the lymphatic vessels, and has shown that it actually lies within them. The epithelial spaces are irregular in shape and size. It is difl&cult to say whether they represent the remains of tubuli seminiferi or not. The cysts are formed by dilatation of these spaces, and arc lined by an irregular cubical epithelium. Intracystic growths may be found, as in the mamma, projecting into the cysts. The disease may a.ssumc a malignant form, becoming generalized in the internal oi'gans like a sarcoma; or, according to Kindfleisch, actual cancerous transformation may take place, the stroma iissuming the form of a caiicer-stroma, and the epithelium of the spaces taking on the active growth of the cells of a true carcinoma. According to Whirling, cystic disease of the testicle is the result of morbid changes in the ducts of the rete testis. Fig. 977.—Cystic Sarcoma