307 OSTEO-MALAGIA—GA USE. : canal of a long bone is increased in diameter, the spaces of the cancellous tissue are enlarged by coalescence, after destruction of the bony trabeculae, and the compact tissue is more spongy than natural, from widening of the Haversian canals. However advanced these changes may be, there is always a thin un- altered layer of compact bone immediately beneath the periosteum. The enlarged cancellous spaces and Haversian canals are filled with an oily, red, i i gruinous, semi-fluid substance. IMicroscopic examination shows, according to Cornil and Eanvier, that the fat cells of the medulla have disappeared to a great extent, and their place is occupied by small round cells, spindle cells, and some flattened cells. Hemorrhages into the medullary substance are common. In the later stages the contents of the medullary spaces contain a "'f. substance resembling the splenic pulp in appearance, and the cells contain numerous pigment-granules derived from the extravasated blood. The tra- . ^beculm of bone appear as if they had been acted on by acid. The lime-salts ihave disappeared from the layers of bone nearest the vessels, leaving the tissue transparent, but still showing the bone-corpuscles just as in bone artificially : decalcified. This process gradually advances, and is followed by absorption of the decalcified matrix, while the corpuscles either perish or mingle with the cells of the altered medullary substance. The term senile mollities is sometimes incorrectly applied to the atrophy of iold age. In this, however, the enlarged spaces are filled with yellow fat, and not with the characteristic tissue just described. In chemical composition, the diseased bone has been found by Leeson to be jomposed of 18'75 parts of animal matter, 29T7 of phosphate and carbonate )f lime, and o2'08 of water in every hundred parts. Cause.—The cause of the complaint is obscure. It has been stated that it is iometimes connected with a rheumatic tendency ; as, in every case recorded, r ;he affection has been preceded or accompanied by severe pains, resembling I'-heumatism. In some instances the patients have been affected with j syphilis. It most commonly, though not invariably, occurs in females, as “J Noointed out by Kilian'; and in a majority of cases it appears to have a con- nection with the childbearing state. Among 131 patients whose histories have I *3een collected by Litzmann of Kiel, there were 85 females, in whom the disease iBither appeared during pregnancy or was modified in its course by this Bondition. Of the remaining 46 patients, 35 were females, and 11 males. It :.nost generally attacks adults, having been observed in few cases under the of 20 : and it may occur even at very advanced age. The Seat of the Disease, according to Litzmann, varies according as it occurs within the childbearing period or independently of this. In 85 child- ' bearing w'omen, the whole skeleton was affected in 6 cases only, and all except the bones of the head in two ; while in 46 other cases, all parts of the skeleton -were diseased in 21, and all the bones except those of the head in six. The ' percentage of the occurrence of the disease in various parts is shown in the following table :— A 85 cliikl-benring 40 other cases. Pelvis .... women. . ik; 87 Spinal Column . . . . ol 87 Chest .... . ai 80 Lower Limb . . 17 78 Upper Limb . . 12 02 Head .... . . 8 02