414 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. rose to 103° F., and symptoms of spinal meningitis with a tendency to opisthotonos and convulsive movements came on, hut passed oil". The sac gave way and a considerable quantity of pus was discharged, after which all the symptoms were relieved, d’he cavity closed by g.ranuIation, the skin covering it being thickened and corrugated, the patient soon completely recovered, and is now—ten years after the last operation—strong, healthy, and active. In infants also where the skin covering the spina bifida has been thinned and translucent—in danger of giving way—tapping and pressure combined have proved successful. In cases in which the child is otherwise healthy and strong, the tumour smaU, with sound skin covering it, and in which little pain or inconvenience arises from pressure on it, means may be adopted for relieving or possibly even curing the deformity. In these circumstances, bearing in mind that the disease is not necessarily fatal, we shall probably best consult the welfare of the child by abstaining from all operative interference, and merely protecting the tmnour with a piece of leather or a layer of cotton-wool. If it be thought desirable to attempt a' cure, the simplest mode is to employ pressure on the tumour, by means of a compress and bandage; or, what is better, an air-pad, similar to those used for umbilical hernia, and kept in place by an India-rubber band. In addition to pressure exercised in this way, the recommendation of Sir A. Cooper may be followed, and the tumour punctured from time to time with a small trochar; care being taken, however, to prevent the ulceration of the punctures, by covering them with collodion. In this way, by the com- bination of puncture and compression, cases have been cured. Gradually applied lateral compression has been successful in a few cases. Thus Wilson removed the tumour by the gradual pressure of a clamp applied to its base, and keeping the parts in close apposition by means of this instrument, so as to prevent the entrance of air, and the consequent occun’ence of septic meningitis. In this case the tumour was as large as an orange, and not pedunculated. If it have a narrow base, the prospect of cure by this means will be better, but before attempting any operation of this kind the tumour should be illuminated by strong transmitted light in order to ascertain the presence or absence of the spinal cord or nerves. Beynard and Latil applied compression successfully by means of threads passed through quills or small wooden tubes, and gradually tightened. All plans of treatment, by which the tumour is opened, and the air allowed to enter it, are fraught with danger, and will, I believe, be inevitably followed by the death of the child, from inflammation of the meninges of the cord, and convulsions. In fact, as a general rule, operations for the removal of the tumour are to be condemned. I have never known any but a fatal issue follow its removal by the ligature, scissors, or knife. Injection of the sac with various preparations of iodine was a method of treatment which had fi’equently been resorted to without success before 1876. In that year, hoAvever, Morton of Glasgow suggested the use of the following preparation : iodine gi’. x, iodide of potassium gr. xxx, glycerine 5]. This has now been used in a large number of cases Avith more success than has attended any pre\dous mode of treatment. The adA’antagc of the glycerine solution seems to be that it diffuses extremely slowly, and consequently if the patient ))C kept recumbent and partially erect, it has little tendency to extend into ; I h '■ Jr iJr i i- I I ( i t