SARCOMATA. 727 ill' :issue in the early stages of their growth, but later on they tend to spread beyond this, and inhltrate the snrronnding structures. §1 Sarcomata are ditlicult to distinguish from the softer forms of adeno-fihroma, lM:..ind are practically indistinguishable from the iideno-sarcomata till after ||; removal. Usually, they develop in women after thirty. They form soft, elastic tumours, smooth 011 the surface, and uniformly rounded or oval in m eutliue. They may he deejily buried in the substance of the gland, but more « recpiently they are situated at one side. They are painless and movable over he pectoralis major until they have reached a considerable size, and they diow no tendency to infect the lymphatic glands. Sarcomata here, as elsewhere, may develop cysts in their substance from ioftenintr or from haemorrhage. These accidental cavities must not be con- dninded with the cysts of a cysto-sarcoma. Sometimes the whole tumour aiay be so soft as to be indistinguishable from a collection of fluid. In a case A this kind under my care a small puncture was made ; nothing but blood 1 'Escaped, and in a few weeks a fungating sarcomatous growth protruded from lie opening. The breast was removed, and the growth was found to be an exceedingly soft sarcoma, the structure of which was to a great extent, broken ; lown by hremorrhage. These tumours present the most tj'pical examples of •eciuTcnt sarcomata. It may be stated broadly that the softer the sarcoma lie more rapidly wiU it recur. In one case, in which I removed a very large iuniour of this kind, weighing about four pounds, with the whole of the I nvolved and atrophied mammary gland, from a lady forty years of age in tS51),recun-ence took place in 1801, and again in 1808, 1804, 1805, and 1808. ; The recuiTcnt tumours were developed at some little distance from the original licatrix, and proved on careful examination to be sarcomatous. The general lealth continued perfectly good throughout, and there was no infection of the ;; ymphatic glands. She died of paralysis some years after the last operation, [i.n these cases this absence of all glandular implication or of constitutional ;iffection from secondary growths in the viscera will indicate the benign •haracter of the disease; the peculiar local malignancy not being associated .vith any tendency to general infection. In such cases as these the tendency 0 recuri’ence will often gradually wear itself out, and after several operations lave been performed at intervals of months, or a year or two, the disease will lease to be reproduced, and a cure will be thus established. The result is not, lowever, always so favourable. Instances are not wanting in which the tendency to local reproduction of the sarcoma has been so active that it out- .’an all possibility of complete extirpation, and eventually destroyed the patient. Moreover, whenever a sarcoma is not only exceedingly rapid in its growth, ait recurs after removal, suspicions of general malignancy not unnaturall}" irise, as two of the most frequent and important elements of such a condition, ixuberaiit vegetative activity and local return, exist. In a case under my care 1 few years ago, 1 removed a sarcoma about the size of a hen’s egg from the mamma of a middle-aged unmaiTied lady. The tumour was distinctly eiicap- mled, and was easily dissected out. It was soft in structure, and yielded a ,'Iaiiy fluid from the cut surface, and was composed of large oval and spindle- shaped cells with scarcely any intercellular substance. A few months after live small soft tumours sprang up around the cicatrix. The whole breast was then removed, but the patient died a year afterwards from a large secondary growth implicating the sternum.