HERNIA. 772 get rid of un indigestible meal. If there be constijmtion, as usually happen^ in all cases of peritonitis, it is not complete, flatus occasionally passing anmn, together with a small quantity of fluid fmces. It is of importance in these cases to observe that the inflammation commences in the body of the sac, and extends into those parts of the abdomen that are contiguous to ib neck; the gastric and intestinal derangements being secondary to this consideration. The Treatment of an inflamed irreducible hernia must be directed to the peritonitis which attends it. The application of leeches over the sac and its neck, and the administration of opium or hypodermic injections of morphia if the vomiting continues, followed by hot fomentation, with strict antiphlogistic regimen and rest, will usually speedily subdue all signs of inflammation. Incarcerated Hernia.—An irreducible hernia occasionally becomes ob- structed, then constituting the condition termed incarcerated hernia. This condition occurs principally in old people, from the accumulation of flatus, or of undigested matters, such as cherry-stones or the remains of a large meal of cabbage or spinach, in an angle of the gut. In these cases there is con- stipation, with eructation, and j)erhaps occasional vomiting. There mavbc some degree of pain, weight, or uneasiness about the tumour ; but there is no tension in it or in its neck, and the symptoms altogether are of a chronic and subacute character. The Treatment of such a case as this should consist in the administration of a good purgative injection ; the compound colocynth enema is the best, thro*.rn up as high as possible by means of a long tube. Ice may then be applied to the tumour for about half an hour; and the taxis, as will afterwards 1)e de- scribed, may be used under chloroform. The ice may be omitted in those cases in which, on handling the tumour, gurgling can readily be felt; but the taxis should always be used, as by it the incarcerated gut may be panially emptied of its contents ; or if any additional protrusion should have slipped down, this may be returned. After these means have been employed, an active purgative, such as a full dose of castor oil or a calomel and colocynth pill may be administered. Should there be any signs of inflammation, purgatives must be avoided, and the case treated as already described. STRANGULATED HERNIA. A hernia is said to be Strangulated when a portion of gut or omentum that is protruded is so tightly constricted that it cannot be returned into the abdomen ; having its functions arrested, and, if not relie^'ed, speedily running into gangrene. This condition may occur at all periods of life, being met with in infants a few days old, and in centenarians. It commonly arises from a sudden violent effort, by which a fresh portion of 'intestine is forcibly pro- truded into a pre’viously existing hernia, which it distends to such a degree a> to produce strangulation. But, though old herniae are more subject to thi> condition than recent ones, it may occur at the very first formation of a hcriiiai swelling, the gut becoming strangled as it is protruded. There are therefon two distinct kinds of strangulation. One may be said to be of a passive kiu( - occurring chiefly in elderly people, the subjects of old and perhaps irreduci) i hernia); which, inconsequence of some accidental circumstance, become v m tended by the descent of a larger portion of intestine than usual, and tn- undergoing constriction and compression at the neck of the sac. gradua ,