14 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. I Keloid is a fibroid growth nob cncapsuled, but fusing with the liealthy skin at its edges. It forms a flat tumour, raised about a line above tlie surround- ing healthy skin. It is oval, rounded or irregular, and branching or radiating 1 in form. The surface is smooth, and white or pink in tint. It is firm and ■ elastic in consistence. It arises without known cause and most frequently upon the trunk or extremities in persons otherwise healthy. It is seldom ; ' painful, but may give rise to itching and burning sensations. It extends ! slowly, and although covering a wider area sometimes seems to have under- i gone a process of contraction like a scar, the surroiinding skin being drawn in | and wrinkled or puckered. After reaching a certain size it ceases to grow. j It has no tendency to ulcerative or to degenerative changes. The treatment is i merely to allay uneasy sensations by sedative applications. If excised, it i almost certainly returns in the scar. ! Closely allied to true keloid are those fibroid growths that have a tendency j to sprout up in scars, constituting False Keloid. It was described also by Sir CcBsar Hawkins under Warty Tumours of Cicatrices. This morbid condition appears to be simply an abnormal increase in the activity of the development of the cicatricial tissue, which springs up with great luxuriance. They are especially apt to follow the irregular cicatrization of bimns, more particularly in children. I have, however, seen them in the adult, occasioned both in this way and by the irritation of a blister. The warty cicatricial tissue develops chiefly on the chest and neck, and is commonly attended by much itching and tingling, often of a most distressing character. It is very vascular, bleeding freely when mcised. The Treatment of these growths is not satisfactory. As a rule, they may safely be let alone. If they cause any annoyance the only treatment is to remove them by the knife if they are so situated as to make this possible, but most commonly the new scar assumes the same unhealthy condition. The disease known as Molluscum Fibrosum, in which enormous pendulous tumours composed of hypertrophied skin and subcutaneous tissue, has ahnady j been described (p. 980, Yol. I.). ! Osteomata of the Skin have been described. They are always atheroma- I tons cysts, the walls of wliich have undergone calcification, and occasionally j true ossification in parts (p. 968, Yol. I.). Adenoma of the Skin, arising both from the sweat-glands and sebaceous follicles, have been occasionally met with. They are, however, very rare, j When arising in connection with the sebaceous follicles they form lol)ulated | masses of some size, which after growing for many years may ulcerate and resemble epithelioma in appearance. On microscopic examination, they are found to be composed of a structure resembling a number of greatly enlarged follicles bound together by a vascular connective tissue. Atheromatous and other Cysts have already been described (p. 967, Yol. I.), and Nsevi will be described in a subsequent chapter with diseases of the blood vessels. Moles are pigmented patches of variable size in the skin, and always of congenital origin. They are often raised above the smface of the surrounding skin and covered with hair, sometimes long and coaise. They cannot, be properly classed as tumours, as they show no tendency to grow out of proportion to the rest of the body. In later life, however, a mole not unfrcqucutly forms the starting point of a tumour. It may gradually increase