I 184 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. <lyspepsia, the languid feelings of which the ])atient complains being very often due to this much rather than to the loss of semen. The loss of semen by an involuntary emission causes no more depression than a corresponding loss during coition, and if occurring not more than twice a week has no evil effect. It is the constipation and dyspepsia accompanying it, that are the real source of the symptoms complained of. Treatment.—The curative treatment of true spermatorrhoBa should consist in giving tone to, and in lessening the irritability of, the genito-urinary organs. In these cases it becomes necessary to maintain and improve the tone of the system by remedies calculated to remove the anasmia and to stimulate the nervous energies. With this view, the preparations of iron, phosphorus, nux vomica, and cantharides will be found the most effective. The syrup of the phosphate of iron and strychnine, or the tincture of the perchloride of iron, in combination with those of nux vomica and cantharides, will be found of the greatest service. But under any form of treatment the cure will be slow, and long-continued perseverance in the use of remedies, local and consti- tutional, is imperatively necessary. In addition to these means the cold hip- bath should be assiduously employed. This the patient should use every night and morning ; remaining in it, at first, for about three minutes, but gradually increasing the time of immersion to ten or fifteen. The patient must sleep on a hard mattress, be lightly covered, and eat no supper. Some satisfactory mental occupation should also be provided, or travelling if possible. In some cases the cold shower-bath appears to give more tone, and then sliould be preferred. These means, useful as adjuncts, will not, however, cure the patient. For this purpose, the local irritability must be removed by the appli- cation of the nitrate of silver to the prostatic and bulbous portions of the urethra. It will usually be found that there is a good deal of tenderness in these situations, felt on pressing upon the perinseum, or on passing an instru- ment into the urethra, when, as the point enters the bulb, the patient will suffer much pain. The continuance of this irritation certainly keeps up the seminal emissions, and thus maintains the debility of the genital organs, and the nervous irritability, that are so characteristic of these cases. It may most ■effectually be remedied by the application of the nitrate of silver, as originally recommended by Lallemand ; and, if this be done in a proper manner, a cure will usually be accomplished. For many years past I have employed, with much advantage in such cases, the instrument here figured (Fig. 980). It Fi". 980.—Syringe-catlietcr for applying Caustic to tlie Urcthi-a. consists of a silver catheter, having about a dozen minute apertures near the end. In the interior is contained a slender piece of sponge, about two inches long, fixed to the expanded end of a firm stylet that moves ■within the catheter. The instrument is charged by filling the sponge with some solution of nitrate of silver by withdrawing the stylet. It may then be well oiled ; and, being