133 GANGIiENE OF THE LIMB. :o prevent a recurrence of the bleeding ; but in general it will not do to trust jO these means, unless the anatomical relations of the part be such as to pre- )lude the possibility of adopting any more active measures. Vl Various plans suggest themselves to the Surgeon for the permanent sup- oression of the bleeding. The sac may be laid open, and an attempt made to ■igature that portion of the artery from which the blood issues. But this can Ucarcely be expected to succeed, as, in the majority of the cases, the coats of -he vessel being softened and pulpy, there would be little prospect of its holding ’ ligature, even if it were possible to expose it before the patient perished of limmon-hage. Indeed, though this plan has been several times tried, I am not iware that by it the Surgeon has ever succeeded in arresting the bleeding from 1 suppurating aneurismal sac. The application of the actual cautery to the bleeding orifice would, I think, hold out a better chance, more particularly if the blood were poured out from i collateral vessel of a small size. In this way Morrison, of Montevideo, suc- •eeded in arresting the bleeding of an aneurism in the groin that had suppu- •ated. Should this means, however, not suffice (and it is the only means that :an be applied in many situations, as in the gi-oin and axilla), there is no ioiuse left but, in those situations in which it can be done, either to ligature he arteiy higher up or to amputate. The application of a ligature nearer he centre of the circulation, even though practicable, appears to me to • )c of very doubtful utility ; for the probability is, hat the circulation through the limb, embairassed '-s it must have been by the first ligature, and by he subsequent distension and suppm’ation of the me, will be so much interfered with when the ^ rrtery is tied a second time, that gangrene will ^ t esulb ; or else that the collateral circulation, if •i, : ufficiently active to maintain the ^fitality of the li i imb, will also keep up the haemorrhage from the [ pening in the artery communicating with the sac. n these circumstances, the only course left to the lUrgeon is amputation of the limb when the aneu- ;i i.sm is so situated that it can in this way be emoved. 4. Gangrene of the Limb.—The general ubject of gangi’ene of a limb, following injury nd ligature of the main artery, has already been .escribed (Vol. I., p. 442) ; and we have at oresent to consider only those cases in which it .'ccur.s after the operation for aneurism. Causes.—If the aneurismal sac have attained large size with great rapidity, it may, by -:s liressure 011 the collateral vessels, or on Fig. 4.')4.—Popliteal .\neurism coiapre.ssing the Vein, niul tiuus C!iu.siiig Gangrene of the Limb Artery ; />, Vein comprcs.seil at U ; c, Aneurism. the . veins in its vicinity Fig. 4.")4), produce such an amount of disturbance in the circulation of tie limb, jireventing the influx of arterial or obstructing the efflux of venous ■lood, as to occasion a great liability to the occurrence of gangrene. But •erha])s the principal source of danger consists in the aneurism becomhiq nddmUi%,nd ujidehj diffused, more particularly in those cases in which the natoniieal relations of the collateral vessels are such, as in the ham, that