574 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. DISEASES OP THE GUMS AND ALVEOLAR PROCESSES. CHAPTER LVI. Abscess of the Gums, Alveolar Abscess or Gumboil is of veiy frequent occurrence, from the irritation of decayed teeth. The common gumboil forms at the edge of the gum and is quite superficial ; it is at once relieved by puncturing it with a lancet. A more troublesome form of alveolar abscess is that which developes in connection with the fang of a tooth, usually carious but occasionally apparently healthy. The pus forms at the extremity of the fang, the alveolus being absorbed around it, so that a small abscess-cavity is J | hollowed out deep in the bone. The pus may find its way out along the tooth, pointing at the margin of the gum, but not unfrequently, especially in the molar or bicuspid teeth it perforates the compact tissue of the jaw-bone i and forms an abscess deeply seated below the reflection of the mucous mem- brane from the gum to the lip or cheek. This is accompanied by considerable - swelling of the face and severe pain. The uatm’e of the swelling is recognized | by its being firmly fixed to the jaw. By a free and early incision and extraction of the diseased tooth the pus may be let out into the mouth and immediate relief obtained, but not uncommonly in the lower. jaw the abscess opens externally near the angle and a troublesome sinus may be left, which refuses ' to heal until the affected tooth is removed. In the upper jaw the pus may burrow beneath the palate, forming an abscess in the roof of the mouth which j occasionally leads to necrosis of a portion of the bone. To prevent this such abscesses should be opened early and the diseased tooth immediately extracted. Spongy Gums, sometimes accompanied by ulceration, may occur as the > result of scurvy, or fr’oin the administration of mercury. If the condition be due to scurvy, it is quickly relieved by attention to diet, fresh fruit and vegetables being freely supplied. The mouth may be washed at the same ■ time with an alum-gargle. Such cases are not uncommon among the female poor of large cities whose food consists chiefly of bread and tea. In mercurial ; salivation a strong alum-gargle will be found the best remedy. In scrofulous ill-fed children a spojigy condition of the gums with ulceration and ftntor of the breath is sometimes met with. The ulcers are covered on the surface with a grey slough. The cause of the condition is often obscure. It must be treated by tonics, cod-liver-oil and iron, and by chlorate of potash, administered internally to very young childi’eii or used as a gargle when possible. Inflammation of the gums during teething must be relieved by lancing. Simple Hypertrophy of the Gums, in the form of pendulous fringed outgrowth overlapping the teeth is occasionally met with in young children. The cause of the condition is uncertain, but it is remarkable that the