448 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. pueqocral fever. More commonly the disease runs the course of white swell- ing or strumous arthritis (p, 839), and in the hip as ,in other joints the morbid process may commence in the synovial membrane or in the cancellous tissue of the bones. When arising in bone the head of the femur is so con- stantly the seat of the primary disease, that this variety may be termed Femoral j Coxalgia. It must be remembered, however, that clinically it is impossible in these cases to determine the actual starting point of the disea.se with any degree of certainty. Thus R. J. Godlee has reported a case in which the disease was runniug the ordinary chronic course of white swelling of the hip, and was apparently receiving great benefit from treatment when the child died from tubercular meningitis. The examination of the hip showed two small tubercular centres, each forming a cavity about the size of a pea, filled with soft granulation-tissue. One was situated in the growing bone in contact with the Y-shaped cartilage of the acetabulum, and the other in the same tissue between the epiphysis of the head and the neck of the femur. The synovial membrane was injected, and its fringes swollen and becoming con- verted into granulation tissue. Lastly the hip-joint is liable, especially in adults, to a form of disease which may be termed Pelvic or Acetabular. This conunences as inflammation, ter- minating in necrosis of the rami of the pubes or ischium, the disease subse- quently extending to the acetabulum, and thus giving rise to disease of the joint. Arthritic Coxalgia, Acute Arthritis of the Hip.—Symptoms.—In this form of the disease the patient is seized with signs of acute inflammation of the joint, coming on rather rapidly, and with great constitutional disturbance and pyrexia. The pain in the joint is most excruciating, accompanied by spasms and twitchings of the limb, and marked by nocturnal exacerbations. The suffering is so intense, that the patient cannot bear the slightest move- ment of the limb ; a fit of coughing, the weight of the bed-clothes, or the shaking of the bed by a person leaning against it will give rise to the most intense agony ; and in the intervals of his suffering the patient is in constant fear of a return of the pain, to which he looks forward with much anxiety. In these cases the limb is flexed, everted, abducted, perfectly helpless, and motionless : the nates will be found flattened, and there is usually some fulness about the anterior part of the joint, or to its outer side, in the hollow behind the trochanter. There is also theoretically true elongation of it, in conse- quence of the capsule becoming distended with fluid, and pushing the head of the bone downwards, but this seldom, if ever, occurs to such an extent as to be recognizable by measurement. On measuring in order to ascertain the true length, it is necessary to examine the two limbs together, and to place the sound in exactly the same position as the diseased one; unless this be done, error will very probably creep in, for, on measuring the lower extremity from the anterior superior iliac spine to the lower border of the patella or the inner ankle, it will be found to be of greater length when abducted or extended than when adducted or bent. In some cases the distension of the capsule with synovial fluid, as the result of the inflammation in the joint, may be so great as to lead to its rupture, and to the sudden dislocation of the head of the bone on to the dorsum ilii, with great pain and much shortening ; this, however, is of very rare occurrence, the dislocation seldom taking place until after abscess has formed within the joint, and the articulation has been thus destroyed.