43S DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. ■ V interference, whilst sacro-iliac disease docs not admit of relief or removal am not prepared to say that it is of necessity fatal, but I have never seen a patient recover after the full development of the disease, and alter suppuration had set in, I have, however, seen a case cured, in which, from the history of the symptoms, the thickening over the sacro-iliac articulations, and tlie permanent displacement of the side of the pelvis, there was every reason to believe that this disease had existed. But in this instance no abscess had formed. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of sacro-iliac disease is important, and not always easy. There are five distinct affections with which it may be con- founded—viz., neuralgia of the hip, sciatica, spinal disease, disease of the hip- joint, and disease of the pelvic bones. 1. Neuralgia of the hip in young females may readily enough be confounded with the earlier stages of sacro-iliac disease. But the widely spread and super- ficial nature of the pam in the neuralgic affection, the co-existence of the hysterical temperament, the sex of the patient, and the absence of all limita- tion of morbid action to the neighbourhood of the diseased articulation, render the true natm’e of the affection sufficiently clear. The obliquity of the pelvis which occasionally occurs in neuralgia of the hip, and causes apparent elonga- tion of the limb, is readily removed when the patient lies on the back; whereas, in sacro-iliac disease, position does not affect the displacement of the limb on the affected side. 2. Sciatica.—In this affection, the age of the patient, usually more advanced than that of the subjects of sacro-iliac disease ; the seat of the pain, below the articulation, and its extent down the back of the limb, the tenderness being in the line of the great sciatic nerve, and not over the articulation ; with the absence of elongation, will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. 3. From spinal disease^ the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy; for, although the situation of abscess resulting from caries of the vertebrae may in many cases be the same as that which is occupied by the collections of pus resulting from sacro-iliac disease, yet in caries of the spine, in the vast majority of instances, excurvation of the vertebrae has become prominently marked by the time that the abscess has assumed so great a magnitude as to occupy the inferior lumbar or gluteal regions. In those rare cases in which, as in an instance that was some time ago under my care, caries of the vertebrae, with consecutive abscess, takes place without any angular curvature, it will he, found that the patient complains of tenderness on the Surgeon percussing the spine opposite the seat of disease ; that the spinal column has lost its flexibility, moving stiffly and as a whole ; that there is an absence of that elongation of the limb on the affected side, dependent on displacement of the wing of the pelvis, which is so early observable in sacro-iliac disease ; and lastly, that examination of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis neither elicits pain nor reveals swelling or any of the other signs of disorganization of that articulation. 4. Disease of the hip-joint is the affection that is most easily confounded with sacro-iliac disease, and that from which it is of most importance to make the diagnosis. It is especially from that variety of hip-disease which com- mences in the acetabulum, primarily involves the pelvic bones, and only secondarily implicates the joint, that it is difficult to distinguish sacro-iliac disease; and the importance of effecting this diagnosis is great when we reflect that these cases of hip-disease may be successftilly subjected to operative ( 1 i i <1 i i •4 A i II i t I .1 II i i i li I ' M 18 \a n m rj y di Sf: A r ■k i fl< 1 f! I si ) I