TBEATMENT OF TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. 585 conical prominence, and dips down into the montli between the gums and the soft structures of the face. It does not involve the palate, 01 alter the line of the teeth ; but rather spreads over the hones, and involves the covering soft parts by continuity of tissue, without any definite anatomical disposition. As the tumour increases in size, it will implicate the anteiioi wall of the antrum, and thus secondarily projects into that cavity. When the disease developes primarily behind the superior maxilla, between it and the great ala or the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, the upper jaw-bone is simply pushed bodily forwards, there being little if any deformity in its outline, the line of teeth not being displaced, nor the walls of the antrum—palatal, nasal, or orbital—expanded. Yet. it must be borne in mind that the difficulty of diagnosis is greatly increased by the fact that a tumour, though not origi- nating in the antrum, may find its way at an early period of its growth into this cavity, or may .pass into the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and may make its way forwards amongst the bones of the face, partly by creeping through, and partly by absorbing and displacing them. Treatment.—In the treatment of tumour Fig. 678.—M.alignant Disease of Malar Bone not suitable for operation. of the upper jaw and antrum, nothing can be done except to extirpate the growth; and it is consequently of gi-eat importance to distinguish those forms of the disease in which an operation can be undertaken with safety, and with a fair chance of success, from those in which none should be performed. The points to be con- sidered are : 1, whether the tumour is benign or malignant; 2, if it be benign, whether it gi’oivs from the antrum or springs from behind the superior maxilla; or 3, if it is malignant, Avhether it has passed the boundaries of the antrum. When the tumour, springing from the antrum, is of a simple character, the disease should be removed, together with the whole of the superior maxilla ; the tumour, whatever size it has attained, being generally encapsuled, and the Ixines expanded and absorbed around it; so that it is well bounded, and does not imjdicate neighbouring parts. Here, as Liston justly observes, no nibbling or grubbing operations, but free excision of the whole mass, should be practised. When the tumour springs from the spheno-maxillary or pterygo- maxillary fossa, pushing the bones of the side of the face forwards, an opera- tion should not be lightly undertaken, as it is doubtful, in many cases, whether the Surgeon can interfere with any prospect of success. Should, however, the tumour be simple, the patient’s health be good, and an operation be deemed expedient, the tumour can be reached only by excising the upper jaw, when it may either be removed attached to that bone, or it may be extirpated from the cavity in which it lies behind it. Such an operation, implicfiting as it does the bfise of the skull, may he followed by death from shock to the nervous centres, as I saw happen in a patient of Liston’s thus operated upon ; or, involving the internal maxillary artery, may be attended by very profuse and troublesome hjcmorrhagc. When once a malignant