5o6 DEFORMITTES. finger contractions, lie •found on dissecting a hand which was the scat of this disease, tliat after the removal of tlie skin, wliicli was loose and flaccid, the conti-aotion continued as before, and this, therefore, could not be its seat; that the palmar fascia, which was exposed, was tense and shortened, whilst from the lower aspect some cord-like prolongations passed up by the side of the fingers ; and that, when these were divided, the contraction was imme- diately removed, the tendons, the bones, and the joints being perfectly sound. He considered these fibrous cords to be digital prolongations of the palmar fascia, and consequently looked upon this membrane as the seat of the disease. Goyrand, who has carefully dissected hands affected in this way, states that these fibrous cords, which he looks upon as the seat of the affection, are not prolongations of the palmar fascia, but are ligamentous structures that extend from its superficial aspect to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, into Avhich they are inserted opposite the second phalanx ; being formed by hypertrophy of bands of subcutaneous connective tissue which naturally exist in this situation. HoAvever this may* be, the fact remains certain that the flexor tendons have nothing to do Avith this special form of finger contraction, but that it is due entirely to fibrous cords from the digital divisions of the palmar fascia; and as Adams has pointed out, the insertion of these digital prolongations of the fascia into the periosteum of the second phalanx readily explains the draAving doAAm of that bone. The Diag7iosis of cases of digital contraction, so far as the defonnity is con- cerned, is obvious, and requires no comment ; so far as the cause is concerned, it is not so easy. Is it tendinous or fascial ? When tendinous, the contracted tendon can be followed up to and above the wrist as a tense cord ; the palmar structures being healthy. When fascial, the tendon cannot be clearly defined, but the palmar structures are dense, thickened, and incorporated together, forming distinct ridges and sulci. This true digital contraction must not be confounded with that “ arthritis deformans,” Avhich often distorts the weather-beaten hands of labouring nien and sailors. In these cases all the fingers are bent inwards, and more or less twisted to the ulnar side, so that the hand presents a claw-like appearance, the mischief evidently affecting the joints. Ti'eatment.—The treatment of digital contractions is purely mechanical and operative. The progress of the disease may be retarded, and some benefit obtained by the use of finger-splints applied to the dorsal aspect, and provided with elastic tractors. The kind of operation must be determined by the patho- logical cause of the disease. As it is now knoAvn to be due to fascial changes, the tendon and its sheath must not be touched, but the contracted structures outside them must be cut across. This consists, when the deformity is slight and recent, in dividing each tense digital fascial prolongation by a subcu- taneous incision. This should be done opposite the second phalanx, where i t is usually most tense ; but, if the other finger-joints be affected, a separate section may be required opposite each phalanx. The Surgeon must be careful not to carry his incisions or pimctiu'es too deeply into the palm, lest the super- ficial palmar arch or one of its branches be divided. The guide to the com- mencement of the digital prolongations from the palmar fascia is the tra^isverse flexion fold in the palm. This—as Adams has pointed out—corresponds exactly Avith the line of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and is of course Avell in advance of the superficial palmar arch. By keeping the highest I ! t 1 i