956 VRIKARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. prostate,—by a moderate section of its apex, followed by simple dilatation witli the fino-ei',—sufficient space will be obtained for the extraction of all moderate- sized calculi, without the employment of any violence, or the infliction of aiiv bruising upon the tissues. But another obstacle exists which will prevent fclie dilatation of the neck of the bladder to any very material extent, without an amount of bruising, or laceration, or even rupture that would probably prove fatal to the patient. Idiis obstacle consists of a firm resisting tissue, which has Ijeen described by Tyrrell as “ an elastic ring,” surrounding the neck of the bladder ; by Liston as “ a fibrous or ligamentous band surrounding the orifice of the bladder, into which the muscular fibres of the organ are inserted.” If this ring or band be ruptured, either by the finger or by the expansion of the forceps, fatal conse- quences will ensue ; but if it be divided, the other tissues, as Liston observes, will yield to an inconceivable extent, without injury to the recto-vesical fascia. The division of this ring must be practised only to a very limited extent. I believe that it is always effected in the act of pushing the scalpel inwards into the bladder ; a mere notching of the fibres of the ring, indeed, is sufficient to allow the requisite expansion to take place when pressure is applied. In thus describing the mode of incising the prostate and neck of the bladder, I have, generally, used the term “ dilatation; ” and I believe that, by a simple j)rocess of dilatation or expansion of these parts, and without any violence whatever, small calculi under an inch in diameter may be extracted. In fact, for the removal of such stones, no force whatever is required, either in opening up the prostate or in withdrawing the calculus. But, in removing stones of greater magnitude than this, I believe that the p>rocess of expansion of the prostate and neck of the bladder, whether effected by the finger, by a blunt gorget, or by the opening up of the blades of the forceps, is a process of lace- ration rather than of dilatation, as I have frequently had occasion to observe in experiments on this point made on the dead subject. If this laceration be, however, confined to the substance of the prostate, and do not extend through the lateral ligament of the bladder, and into the subj)eritoneal tissue, no harm results. It is difficult, with ordinary force, to lacerate the dense ligament. This structure, therefore, remains as a firm unbroken barrier between the pelvic areolar tissue and the external wound, preventing the possibility of the infiltration of urine into the internal subperitoneal areolar tissue, and lessening materially the chance of diffuse inflammation. But if, in the with- drawal of the stone, or by an undue expansion of the blades of the forceps, the Surgeon feel a sudden giving yvay of a tense annular structure, he may be sure that the lateral ligament has been torn, and fatal mischief will probably ensue. Extraction of the Stone.—A forceps of sufficient length, of a size proportioned to that of the calculus, and previously warmed by immersion in tepid yvater, must be slid along the index-finger, yvhich is kept in the yvouud, and by which the neck of the bladder should be drawn somewhat down so a to meet the instrument. In this way, also, the stone may often be fixed by tin point of the finger, and its position thus accurately determined. The forcep having been introduced closed, the finger is withdrawn, yvhen a gush of urine will usually take place through the yvound, if that fluid have not already escaped at the time yvhen the incision is made through the prostate. By thi^ ^ gu.sh the calculus may, as Forgusson obsery'es, sometimes be carried into tlnj,