282 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. Numerous cases have been recorded by Holmes, J. Bell, Macnamara and S others, in which early removal has been practised with excellent results. New J bone is slowly formed from the periosteum, and after a few months the limb is in most cases almost as strong as before the operation. The removal of J the bone can usually be accomplished by simply exposing it by a free incision, i laying hold of it with the lion forceps and twisting it out. In some cases the H operation is facilitated by dividing the shaft into two pieces with a chain-saw. If the bone on examination be found to be firmly attached it should be left 1 alone. It is only in those cases in which there is reason to believe that the 1 whole diaphysis is separated from the periosteum and the epiphyses that the j operation is justifiable. : ' CARIES. The term Caries has been used with considerable laxity, so that it cannot I be said to have any definite pathological meaning. It is in fact applied to every slowly progressive ulceration of bone except that concerned in the separation of a sequestrum fr’om the surrounding living bone. All these pro- cesses belong to the class of rarefying inflammations of bone, that is to say, the bony tissue is gradually absorbed before an advancing inflammatory new growth proceeding from the vascular tissue, either in the medulla of cancellous bone, or in the Haversian canals of compact bone. These processes have already been described (pp. 262, 267). The modifications of caries depend upon the cause of the disease, the part of the bone affected, and the stage of the process in which suppuration, or degeneration of the inflammatory products takes place. The Causes of caries are very various. As in all other inflammatory processes we have to consider, first, the constitutional or local condition which predisposes the tissue to inflammation, and secondly, the source of iiTitation which is the immediate cause of the process. Caries occurs most frequently ; in strumous subjects, in whom, as before stated (see Scrofula, Yol. I., p. 1054), inflammation is prone to be set up by slight causes, and to persist. The immediate cause of the disease is, in many cases, an injury. This is very frequently the case when it starts in the soft tissue, between the epiphysis and diaphysis of a growing bone, or in the bodies of the vertebree. The persist- > ence of the process in these cases is due chiefly to want of rest, the diseased bone being constantly exposed to slight mechanical injury whenever the part i is moved or the weight of the body is thrown upon it. That this is the true | explanation of many cases is shown by the readiness with which cure takes > place when the diseased part is put at perfect rest. This is also well illustrated j in some cases of disease of the hip-joint, vdth caries of the acetabulum. If ; dislocation takes place, the carious cavity, being relieved from the friction of j the head of the bone, frequently heals rapidly. If the cause of the con- tinuance of the inflammation be not removed suppuration frequently takes place. Another very common cause of caries is the deposit of tubercle in the cancellous tissue of bones. Tubercle undergoes the same changes in bone as elsewhere ; it caseates early and subsequently softens, exciting inflammation in the parts around it. The observations of all pathologists during the l^t few years have tended to prove that the great majority of all ciiscs of caries