15 SIMPLE TUMOURS—PAPILLOMATA. in size, becoming more and more prominent, and sometimes pedunculated. It may thus form a tumour, usually lobulated or papillary, and more or less darkly pigmented. Finally, from the friction of the clothes it may ulcerate and become very troublesome. A mole also not uncommonly forms the seat of origin of a sarcoma, or more rarely of a squamous epithelioma. A mole requires no treatment unless it become affected by one of the complica- tions above mentioned, when it must be at once excised. The Surgeon is often consulted as to the possibility of removing a disfiguring mole from the face. There is no method by which this can be done without leaving a scar in its place, but if the patient prefer this to the pigmented pateh, the mole may be destroyed by caustics. Nitric acid and potassa fusa are the two most efficient appheations, but they should not be applied in such quantity as to destroy the whole skin, otherwise a puckered and rigid cicatrix will result. Papillomata of the Skin, or Warts, consist of elongated papillse, covered by strata of thickened and hardened cuticle, usually situated about the hands and face, and chiefly affecting young people ; they appear in many cases to be simple overgrowths of the cutaneous structures, coming and going without any e^fident cause. In other cases they are more permanent, becoming hardened and dark in colour, and continuing perhaps through life. The Treatment of warts is usually sufficiently simple. They may be readily destroyed by the application of caustics or astringents ; among the most use- ful of these, I have found the concentrated acetic acid and the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron. Brodie recommends a solution of a di’achm of arsenious acid in half an ounce of nitric acid. In some cases they may be ligatured or snipped off with advantage. Corns consist of thickened masses of epithelium accumulated on those points on which undue pressure or friction has been exercised. They result from an overgrowth of the epithelium, consequent upon the abnormal stimula- lation to which the part is exposed. This is accompanied by some enlarge- ment of the papilloe. The mass of epithelium is hard, dry, and scaly. In the central parts it may lead to some atrophy of the papillae from pressure, and consequently the horny mass assumes a conical form, with its apex downwards, pressing on the sensitive cutis beneath, and thus causing considerable pain. When the com is situated in places where the secretions of the skin accumu- late and keep it moist, as between the toes, the excessive epithelium forms a soft pulpy mass which is easily removed, and the enlargement of the papiUrn is then very evident. Under old and very thickened corns, it is stated by Brodie that a small bursa is occasionally found ; this bursa may suppurate, and become very pain- ful. Corns are at all times sufficiently painful, but become especially so if in- flammation or suppuration take place beneath them ; the accumulation of a small drop of pus under the thickened cuticle, which in’events its escape,'giving rise to very intense agony, and causing oedema and redness extendingfrom tlic toe to the foot, and sometimes up the leg. There is a special form of warty corn that I have seen only in the sole of the foot, and which may become the source of the greatest possible pain and inconvenience to the patient, preventing his walking, and in fact completely cripifiing him. This corn is usually of small size and circular in shape, the neighbouring cuticle being always greatly thickened and hardened. It is extremely sensitive to the touch, the patient shrinking when it is pressed upon, as if an exposed nerve had been injured.