DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 728 The Diagnosis of sarcoma of tlie mamma from tlie softer forms of adeiio- fibroma and adeiio-sarcoma, is not possible in many cases befoi-e removal. It may be suspected when tlie tumour is uniform in outline, free from lobulation, of rapid growth, and commences after the age of thirty-five. From cancer it is distinguished by its softness, its more rapid growth, its more definite cir- cumscription, and the absence of glandular affection and of retraction of the nipple. Should the sarcoma from the first infiltrate the surrounding tissues, the diagnosis becomes much more difficult, as the groivth closely resembles some of the softer forms of cancer. The Treatment of sarcoma of the breast is early and free removal. Nothing else can be of the slightest use. Before commencing the operation it is well to obtain the patient’s consent to complete removal of the breast if necessary. The tumour may then be exposed and dissected out. If it be firm and distinctly encapsuled, it may be removed without taking away the whole mamma, the capsule, if possible, being removed with it; but should it be soft, ill-defined, very vascular, it is safer to remove the whole gland at the same time. Should recurrence take place, the breast must be fully removed, and the operation may be repeated as often as local recurrence takes place, so long as there is no evidence of secondary gTOwths in the viscera. Sanguineous Cysts are occasionally met with in the mamma. These are of various kinds. As before stated, retention-cysts with papillary growths within them may become fiUed with blood, wliich may be squeezed from the nipple by pressure on the tumour. Yery soft sarcomata also may be so broken down by hgemorrhage into their substance as to be mistaken for blood-cysts. A peculiar form of cancer to be subsequently described, in which it seems to arise rather from the ducts than the acini, may also present numerous cysts filled with blood. Lastly, any form of cyst may become fiUed with blood as the result of an injury. Fcetal Remains have, in some rare cases, been met with in the breast; these, however, are rather matters of pathological curiosity than of practical importance. CANCEB OP THE BREAST. Glandular cancer, that is to say, cancer the cells of which belong to the type of glandular or spheroidal epithelium, is the form commonly observed in the mamma. Its three varieties, sciri’hus, encephaloid, and colloid, are met with, but the first occurs Avith far greater frequency than any of the other forms. The encephaloid form of the disease occurs with some frequency ; but colloid is very rare. Cancer of the breast, whatever form it assume, is invariably primary : it may affect one lobe only or be infiltrated into the Avhole gland, and it may commence in or immediately beneath the nipple, or so early affect the skin and spread so vddely in it as to appear to have originated in that structure. Most fi’equently one breast only is affected, but in some cases both are implicated. SciiiiiHUS.—Scirrhus is the form of cancer which is commonly met with in the breast. It may occur in several ways : either affecting the nijAple, impli- cating the skin, primarily develoiAing in the form of an intra-mammary tumour, or infiltrating the whole substance of the organ. It most commonly commences as a circumscribed tumour of small size, at first perhaps smooth and round, hard and indolent in its character, Avith little or no pain ; it is