702 OPEIIATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. culty will ])c found in turning- the intercostal artery out of its <rroove at the lower border. A curA^cd elevator or a broad flat dii-ector is then passed completely under the rib from below upwards and the bone divided in two places with a saw or j^roperly constructed bone-forceps, and about one ineb of its length removed. The pleura should not be wounded ‘ u]) to this stage in the operation. All bleeding having been arrested, the pleura may be opened and the tube inserted. If it be preferred the operation may be performed by a T-shaped incision, but this usually presents no advantage over the simpfe ' longitudinal. The removal of a piece of rib is not accompanied by any difficulty or danger. Necrosis rarely follows, not more often apparently than after the simple insertion of a tube between the ribs. New bone rapidly forms from the periosteum, and after a time the continnity of the rib is restored, and sometimes a mass of bone fills the intercostal spaces. The operation may therefore be undertaken without hesitation whenever it seems to offer the slightest advantage. 3. The Tube. The ordinary India-rubber drainage-tube should be used, but care must be taken that there is no hole in the part corresponding to tbe chest walls, as granulations are apt to sprout up into it and obstruct the lumen. It must be provided with a shield, lest it slip into the pleural cavity. The best form is that suggested by E. B. Baxter. It is thus prepared. In the middle piece of sheet India-rubber,'about a sixteenth of an inch thick, and one inch and a half to two inches square, a round hole is cut of the same size as the drainage tube. The tube is then passed through for a sufficient distance, and split into four pieces sufficiently long to reach to the four corners of the shield, to which they are attached by silver wire. The remainder of the tube on the other side of the shield must have holes cut in it at in- tervals, as in an ordinary drainage tube. The tube must vary in diameter with the size of the patient. It should always be as large as can conveniently be passed between the ribs, but as the discharge lessens, a smaller size may he substituted. It need never be more than two or three inches in lencfth. Nothing is gained by putting eight or nine inches of tube into the pleura ; it cannot suck the fluid out, and only causes needless irritation. 4. The dressing and after-treatment. The most efficient dressing is carbolic , i gauze. Should it cause irritation, eucalyptus-gauze may be substituted for it. ' 1 Should this not be at hand, an efficient absorbent dressing may be made of | salicylic or iodoform-wool, carded oakum or carbolized jute, covered with a piece ; of oiled silk or some other impermeable material to prevent the discharge from soaking through too soon opposite the Avound. The dressing should be | conducted under the carbolic spray, but if this cannot be done, the entrance i of impure air can be prevented with a little care, by coA^ering the opening im- ; mediately with a piece of rag soaked in some antiseptic solution as the i j dressing is removed, and drawing it out again from under the fresh dre-ssing ; | as it is applied. For the first few days daily dressings are required, but the t ij intervals may be gradually increased. It is seldom adA’isable to leave it for i more than a Aveek, even if no discharge appears at the edge. In ordinary j cases nothing is gained by washing out the cavity Avith antiseptic solutions, a | proceeding Avhich has been knoAvn to cause sudden death in more than one I case, an accident the cause of Avhich is quite unknoAvn. | 5. The removal of the tube. The time at which the tube should be removed I is often a difficult point to determine. When the discharge becomes purely I