814 ^FECIAL JJEENIyE. hernia, was sent ii]) from the country for opei-ation. On l)eiiif,^ called to him 1 found the honse-surgeon attempting the reduction of the tiimonr in the hot hath ; hut as soon as 1 felt the swelling, I was convinced, from its hard, solid' mid irregular feel, that it was not a hernia. On inquiring into the hishny of the case, it appeared that the jiatient had for the last two days suffered from occasional vomiting, and had been constipated ; that the tumour in the groin had not appeared suddenly, though it had enlarged with great rapidity ; that it Avas excessively painful; and that he had always Avorn a truss for a supposed rupture on that side, until the last few weeks, when, in consequence of the instrument breaking, he had discontinued it. On examining the groin care- fully, a tumour about as large as the fist was found in the right inguinal canal; it was tender to the touch, hard, and irregular at the upper and outer part, but somewhat soft and fluctuating below ; Avhen the Anger Avas passed into the external ring, the outline of the tumour could be A'ery distinctly felt in the canal. There Avas no impulse in it on coughing, but some abdominal tender- ness on that side. The right testis AA^as not in the scrotum. I ordered the man to be bled, the tumour to be leeched, and salines administered : undei- this treatment the case did well. When a knuckle of strangulated intestine lies behind and above the testis, still retained above the external ring, the symp- toms of strangulation will be violent and persistent; and this, even though the tumour present but little the feel or the ordinary character of a hernia. In fact, in such a case, the Surgeon is guided by the character of the general symptoms, and not by those of the local tuinoiu’. In a case of this kind to which I was called, there could be felt behind and above an inflamed and swollen testicle, which lay at the external abdominal ring, a small, hard, round tumour in the upper portion of the canal. As symptoms of strangulation were urgent, this Avas cut down upon, the anterior wall of the canal was incised, and the tunica vaginalis, much distended with fluid, was laid open, AA'hen a small knuckle of intestine was found lying at its upper part, Amry tightly constricted by the inner ring. But in other cases the diagnosis is not so easy ; the Avhole tumour lying in the canal feels smooth, elastic, and uniform, so that no manual examination can enable the Surgeon to say with certainty whether the tumour is an inflamed testis surrounded by fluid in a distended tunica vaginalis, or whether there is a loop of intestine lying above an undescended testis. In such cases as these, however, the Surgeon is guided in the course he should adopt by the symptoms. If these indicate strangulation of intestine, and persist after a reasonable time has been consumed in the application of leeches and hot fomentations, he should, without further delay, cut down on the tumour aiid examine its nature. If it be hernial in part, the internal ring will require dmsion, the intestine must be reduced, and the testis put back in the canal. Treatment.—The treatment of congenital hernia consists in the reduction of the tumour, and the application of a proper truss, the pad of Avhich should compress the Avhole length of the inguinal canal. In children, a radical cure may be efPcctcd in this Avay ; but, in order to accomplish this desirable result, the truss inust be Avorn for several years. The application of a truss Avith an air-pad Avill in many instances be found especially useful, as it ajqAlies itself Avith greater exactness than an ordinary incompressible one. In applying tlie truss, care must be taken not to compress the testis if undescended. In order to avoid tliis, the loAver end of the pad may be cut out so as to be concaA'C, and thus press down the testis AA'hile it supports the hernia.