OPERATIONS FOR PILES—CRUSHING—CAUSTICS. 897 5;:Qass very readily. This treatment is, however, more troublesome, and pre- ii'Snts no advantages over the method by the clamp and cautery. Crnsliing.—The plan of removing piles by crushing has been introduced |vy Pollock. By this method the hmmorrhoid, after having been properly )|reed by snipping with scissors, is seized in a pair of screw-forceps, which are I, jghtened so as to compress the pile into a narrow line at the part seized—the ji rojecting portion is then cut off and the instrument removed. Allinghain j I as invented a clamp (Fig. 817) for this purpose, which is more powerful than 1^ |,re forceps and very easy of management. M ' Caustics.—In certain kinds of internal piles, the application of nitric acid ifr.-is been recommended by Houston of Dublin, and H. Lee, and may certainly ||) adopted with advantage. It must not, however, be applied to the external II • to the intero-external pile, as it will produce extreme irritation ; nor can it >1; looked upon as a substitute for the ligature or the cautery in internal piles t jj :‘nerally. It is especially in the granular pile, having an ulcerated surface, nat this mode of treatment is useful ; as in these cases it appears, by destroy- a portion of the mucous membrane, not only to cure the pile to which it (|: applied, but, by producing an ulcer, to give rise to a cicatrix, which, by ilrntracting, consolidates the parts in its vicinity, and so lessens the relaxed . ; I f I Fig. 818.—Speciilum Aui. Fig. 819.—Gilt Clip. m UH£,e of the rectum, which favours the hsemon-hoidal tendency. The acid '■ conveniently be applied through a glass speculum, havmg an aperture on sside (Fig. 818). This should be introduced well oiled, until the pile pre- ss through the opening in it, when it must be freely rubbed with a piece of . or a glass rod, or bru.sh,- dipped in the acid ; the surface is then imme- ely wiped with a piece of lint saturated with prepared chalk and water, ithe instrument removed. Or the gilt clip (Fig. 819) may be used, so as Spffectually protect the neighbouring parts from the action of the acid. A slough separates, leaving a raw surface, which gradually cicatrizes and iBracts, The application of the acid occasions but little pain when fairly e within the rectum ; but if a drop of it accidentally come into contact the muco-cutaneous surface, a vast deal of irritation and inflammation is .ed. This plan of treatment, though useful in particular forms of pile, as 1 the tumour is granular and flat, so as not to allow of ready removal by •igature, should not be practised when other means can be employed, as it no means so certain a mode of treatment. It cannot be considered 'ether devoid of risk; for 1 have known one instance in which fatal 'pelas followed tlie cauterization of piles with nitric acid. f :ior f fectf'