I 859 REMOVAL OF TUMOURS FROM GROIN. The Solid tumoiii’s in the gi'oin may either he simple or malignant. The history of the case, the feel of the tnmonr, the rapidity of its in’ogress, the I extent of contamination of neighbouring parts, and the other signs that serve as diagnostic differences between simple and malignant growths, will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis with snfKcient accuracy. The Treatment of many of these tnmonrs, such as abscess of various kinds, aneurism, varix, and hernia, has already been so fully considered in the various chaptei-s devoted to these diseases, that I need not enter upon it hero. But the question of operating for the removal of cystk or solid tumours of the groin, is one that presents several special points for consideration. These are, the relations of the morbid mass, 1st, to the femoral vein ; 2nd, to the femoral artery; and 8i-d, to the abdominal cavity. If the tumour lie upon or com- press the femoral vein, a3dema of the foot and leg will be the result; and, ' should the compression have been prolonged and very chronic, this oedema may assume a semi-solid character, so as to occasion a condition of the limb . closely resembling elephantiasis. Although an intimate relation such as this L between the tumour and vein would obviously inculcate the necessity for sextreme caution, it need not necessarily preclude the idea of operating for the c removal of the tumour, which may possibly be altogether above and unattached ! to the sheath of the vessels. I once successfully removed a nmvoid and lipo- : matous tumour of many years’ standing, in a case where the limb was in a state ■ of spurious elephantiasis from compression of the femoral vein, but the vessel was not involved in the growth. If the femoral artery be compressed to such an extent as to interfere with the circulation through the lower part of the limb, it will most probably be found that the tumour dips under or surrounds ; the vessel, so as to render removal impracticable. The mere overlaying of the .artery by a freely movable mass, without any compression of the vessel, need ! not preclude operation. The growth figured p. 487, Yol. II., was of this kind. The connection of the tumour with the abdominal or pelvic cavities under IPoupait’s ligament, or through the obturator foramen, must be most carefully examined. Should this exist, or even be strongly suspected, operation is necessarily quite inadmissible.