59 VARICOSE VEINS. only ill the steady extension of the redness and pain up the course of the vein, and in the presence of the general symptoms of blood-poisoning. Trkatment.—The first point to be attended to in the treatment of phlebitis is absolute rest of the limb in an elevated position. The im- portance of rest in these cases is two-fold ; first, to prevent pain and in- crease of the local mischief; and secondly, to guard against the danger that mav result from the detachment of the thrombus, which, carried into the circulation, may occasion sudden death by plugging of the pulmonary artery, or more remotely, in cases of septic phlebitis, by pyiemia. In simple or gouty phlebitis, much local comfort is derived from the application of Extract of Belladonna and Glycerine, in equal parts, covered by a thick layer of cottoii-wool and a bandage. Should this application not be at hand, hot fomentations will afford great relief. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary medical principles in accordance with the age and strength of the patient, always avoiding depletory measures, which are not well borne, and early having recoiu'se to a tonic or stimulating plan. The hardness that is often left after subsidence of the inflammation may be removed by salt and nitre poultices, as recommended by Basham. If oedema of the limb continue, the pressure of an elastic roller will remove it. But if the oedema has been extensive and chronic the limb rarely, if ever, completely recovers its natural size. If abscesses form they must be treated by free and early incisions, and the most scrupulous attention being paid to the prevention of decomposition. In spreading septic phlebitis treatment is of little avail. If a superfleial vein is affected it would be justifiable to expose the vein above the affected part and remove a portion of it to arrest the progress of the disease. If the deep veins are affected and the diagnosis can be clearly established, and especially if rigors and other symptoms of blood-poisoning are present, am- putation may give the patient a last chance. This form of phlebitis is, however, almost certainly preventable by any eflicient antiseptic mode of treating wounds. In those cases in which a similar condition is set up in the vein leading from an area of infective inflammation, not septic in character, as in acute necrosis of the bone, the diagnosis is almost impossible till it is too late for amputation to be of any service. VARICOSE VEINS OR VARIX. By Varicose Veins or Varix is meant a permanent dilatation of the veins with thickening of their walls. It must be distinguished from simple dilatation or phlebectasis such as arisQS from acute obstruction to the return of blood, or from the pressure of a tumour or aneurism. Simple dilatation subsides as soon as the cause is removed, and it is not accompanied by any definite change in the structure of the walls of the vein ; varix is permanent, and is always associated with degenerative changes in the coats of the affected vessel. C’auses.—The causes of varix are generally such conditions as induco more or less permanent or frequemthj repeated distension of the veins. Thus, for instance, strains and habitual over-exertion of a limb, by driving the blood from the deep into the subcutaneous veins, may give rise to their distension ; so