OSTEOMYELITIS OF LONG BONES. 265 m -ft «.» i] illli m! I 0 M li \ u 4 d 4i 0 free from irritating properties. If it have perished in consequence of some infective inflammation, or liave been impregnated with decomposing matter, its absorption becomes impossible, for absorption of bone is carried out solely by the medium of the living cells before described, and these cannot exist in a healthy state in the presence of the virus of an infective process or the products of putrefaction. Larger fragments of dead bone arc always separated from the living and cast off. This is accomplished entirely at the expense of the living bone. The process by which it is carried out is merely one of rarefying osteitis can’ied to its highest stage and ending in complete destniction of the osseous tissue where the living is in contact with the dead, its place being occupied by granulation-tissue. The layers of this tissue touching the dead bone break down into pus, and thus complete separa- tion is accomplished. The further details of the process will be given when treating of necrosis clinically. INFLA11XLA.TORY Processes in the Medulla op Long Bones.—The maiTow of a long bone is composed of fat, supported by a delicate connective tissue and traversed by vessels. It contains numerous cells resembling white corjiuscles. In contact with the solid bone the connective tissue assumes an imperfect membranous form and is more abundantly vascular, and this layer has received the name of the medullary membrane. It is unnecessary to enter into any great detail in describing the inflammatory processes that occur in the maiTow of bone, as they are the same as in other soft structures. The forms of inflammation occurring in the medulla are the following :—(1) Simple osteomyelitis ; (a) acute, (b) chronic. (2) Diffuse acute osteomyelitis ; («) septic, (b) infective. 1. Simple Acute Osteomyelitis is usually of traumatic origin. The phenomena observed are the same as in other soft parts, dilatation of the vessels, exudation and migration of the corpuscles, and gradual disappearance of the normal tissues before the new cells. In compound fractures and am- putations it occasionally ends in suppuration, a small collection of pus some- times fonning which discharges itself through the open end of the medullary canal. In simple fi’actures suppuration never takes place, but the products of the process are developed into bone, thus forming the internal callus (vide Repair of Fracture, Vol. I., p. 507). Osteomyelitis in its early stages is recognized by the dark red colour of the man’ow. Later on the fat disappear, and soft tissue, ha\dng the ordinary pink colour of granulation-tissue, takes its place. If bone forms it appears first in contact with the pre-existing osseous tissue. Chronic osteomyelitis occurs only as a part of more general inflammatory affections of bone. Thus, in an osteoplastic osteitis, we often find the medul- lary canal encroached on by the newly-formed osseous tissue, until in some cases it is completely filled by spongy bone. In necrosis of the compact tissue the neighbouring medulla becomes chronically inflamed, and the products of the process undergo ossification. Acute Diffuse Osteomyelitis is one of the most serious affections of bone. It occurs in two forms, traumatic and idiopathic. The traumatic is usually of septic origin, and is the direct consequence of decomposition of the discharges in a wound communicating with the medullary canal, as in a comiKjund fracture or amputation. ^Fhc products of putrefaction difluse themselves in the soft tissue of the medulla and set up acute inflammation.