582 DISEASES OF 'THE JAWS AND THEIR APPEXDAGES. in eitlier jaw. They arise in connection witli tectli whicli from some cause have been retained in the jaAv. They are almost invariably connected with the permanent teeth. Tomes believes that they arise from the excessive formation around a retained tooth of a fluid which is normally found after the complete development of the enamel, betAveen it and the soft tissues investim^ it. The tooth is not unfrequently found to be inverted. The cysts may occur at any age, but are most common in young adults. In the upper jaw they may form cysts in the antrum. In the lower jaAV, they form ])rominent isolated tumours. They have been mistaken for solid tumours, and the jaAv has in consequence been partially removed. Occasionally they may suppurate. Heath mentions also dentinal tumours, i.e. irregular masses of dentine groAv- ing from a tooth and forming tumours of the jaw ; but they seem A’eiy rare. The treatment consists in cutting aAvay a part of the wall of the cyst and removing the retained tooth. The subsequent treatment is the same as that of cyst of the antrum. Solid Tumoues of various kinds may take their origin from the superior maxilla or its immediate neighbourhood. In most cases, by the time the case comes under observation, it is impossible to say with certainty in what part or tissue it took its origin—whether it began in the upper jaAV, or spread into it from contiguous structures. The following are the chief tumours met with in this region. ribroma.—This is not uncommon springing from the periosteum, and either filling the antrum or projecting from the alveolar border. It groAvs slowly, and has no tendency to infect the suiTounding tissues, but when springing from the antrum it causes gradual absorption of the sun’ounding bone, and forces its Avay into the neighbom’hig sinuses and cavities, or projects forwards on the face, sometimes forming - a tumom’ of considerable size. Enchondroma.—Pure enchondroma is uncommon ; its general mode of groAvth, and the appearance it gives rise to are similar to those of fibroma. Osteoma.—Bony growths are occasionally met A\dth filling the antrum and causing a projection forwards on the cheek. They are composed of tissue having the normal structm’e of bone, and somewhat denser in structure than ordinary cancellous tissue. They increase slowly and painlessly. A case of this kind occm’ring in a young Avoman, aged 25, Avas recently in University College Hospital, under the care of C. Heath. It formed a considerable projection on the face, and had been growing for ten years. Pedunculated groAvths have been met with growing from the outer surface of the bone, and stiU more rarely ivory-like tumours have been found in the same situation. Vascular Tumours.—Liston removed a tumour from the maxillary region, which in section presented the appearance of erectile tissue. The specimen is now in the Museum of University College. The section closely resembles that of the corpus cav^ernosum penis. Sarcomata of various kinds are of fi’equent occurrence in the upper jaAW originating in the maxilla itself, or in the surrounding bones. Spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma, in some cases undergoing partial ossification, and in others developing into cartilage, are the varieties chiefly met with. They form soft, rapidly-growing tumours, often implicating the surrounding parts and pushing into the neighbouring cavities from an early period. They arc extremely vascular, so much so that in rare cases they pulsate distinctly. / i. 1 I. )• I j « ( e i & i i I