FOEiMS OF HIF-JOINT DISEASE. 441 i CHAPTER LII. I DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. Hip-disease presents so many points of peculiar and serious importance, that it is usually, and not improperly, described as a distinct affection, apart from other joiut-diseases. Like all these it may be acute, subacute, or chronic, 1 and most commonly occurs in strumous subjects ; indeed, I think its con- ' nection with scrofula is generally more distinctly marked than that of most i other affections of the joints. It almost invariably occurs before the age of 1 puberty. Out of 48 consecutive cases of this disease, of Avhich I took notes, I h find that in IG only did it commence at or after fifteen years of age, and, of these, in G cases only it happened above the age of twenty. The collected statistics of cases appeai-s to give a very similar proportion ; thus it may be considered essentially a disease of childhood or early youth. It is commonly attributed to slight causes, such as over-exertion in a long walk, a sprain in jumping, a fall, or sitting in the wet. Forms of the Disease.—All the inflammatory affections attacking the ' coxo-femoral articulation are usually confounded under the term “Hip- Disease ” or “ Coxalgia.” This is too general an expression ; and we shall find included under it several distinct forms of disease that differ from one another i in pathology, symptoms, result, and treatment. On looking at the hip-joint ' in a surgical point of view, we find it to be composed of three distinct parts ; viz., the soft structures, the acetabulum, and the head of the thigh-bone. Any one of these may be principally or primarily affected ; and we may accordingly : dinde hip-joint disease into three distinct forms—Arthritic, Acetabular, and Femoral. This division is not purely pathological, for in aU three forms when the later stages are reached, all the component parts are more or less extensively affected. The distinction is, however, of practical importance, especially in its bearing on the question of excision. General Phenomena of Hip-disease.—Before proceeding to describe each separate fonri of coxalgia in detail, we may consider briefly the condi- tions which are more or less common to each variety of the affection—viz., Pain, Attitude, Imperfect Mobility, Suppuration, Sinuses, Dislocation, and Ankylosis. 1. Fain.—The pain in hip-joint disease varies gi’eatly according to the form which the affection assumes. In the more chronic forms of the disease it is at first slight, and, perhaps, referable rather to the knee than to the hip ; this is particularly the case in the femoral variety, and may be explained by the irritation of the articular branch of the obturator nerve, causing a referred pain to be felt in the terminal branches by the inner side of the knee-joint. Both the hip and knee receive articular branches also from the anterior crural and sciatic nerves. That from the obturator, however, enters the round liga- ment, and is perhaps for this reason implicated early in cases in which the disease commences in the head of the femur.