439 DIAGNOSIS OF SACEO-ILIAO DISEASE. 11 by these means. The diagnosis between coxalgia in all its forms and the ii disease we are at present considering may be eifected by attention to the »'j following circumstances. ; a. The seat of pain on pressure varies. In hip-disease the patient suffers :j most severely when pressure is exercised deeply behind and above the tro- j chanter, in the hollow behind that osseous prominence, or when the com- I pression is exercised against the anterior part of the hip-joint. In sacro-iliac j disease, little or no pain is experienced on pressure in these situations ; but tenderness is elicited by pressure upon the sacrum and along the line of junction between the sacrum and ilium, behind and altogether away from the hip. h. The movements that occasion pain are different in the two diseases. In hip-disease, abduction and rotation outwards, or pressure of the head of the thigh-bone into the acetabulum, aggravate the sufferings of the patient to a greater or less degree, often to an unbearable extent. In sacro-iliac disease the thigh may be moved in all directions, ab- or adducted, rotated, flexed, or extended, whilst the patient is lying on the back, without any increase of suffering, provided the side of the pelvis be fixed by the Sm-geon. Should this precaution not be taken, the movement impressed on the thigh will be communicated to the diseased articulation, and wiU necessarily occasion suffering. c. The signs connected with the alteration in the length of the limb differ in the two diseases. In hip-disease there may be, and usually is in the advanced stages, considerable shortening. This never occurs in sacro-iliac disease. (1. The alteration of the level and of the prominence of the two anterior superior spines, in sacro-iliac disease, may be confounded with that arising from the obliquity of the pelvis usually occiuTing in the early stages of coxalgia. But here also the diagnosis may be effected by observing that the displace- ment of the bone in sacro-iliac disease is permanent, and is not influenced by position. The obliquity of the pelvis in hip-disease, giving rise to apparent elongation of the limb, is dependent on a twist in the lumbar spine, which may be rectified by placing the patient on his back, and using a little mani- pulation. The alteration in the level of the two ilia, in sacro-iliac disease, is not modified by change of position, or by any movement that may be impressed upon the spine. 5. Disease of the pelvic hones may of course occur independently of any affec- tion of the sacro-iliac articulation ; and, when so occurring, it always com- mences at a distance from the joint—the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, or the acetabulum, being the usual seats of the disease. When it occurs in the first of these two situations, the resulting abscess seldom attains a very large size, and is altogether above or below the synchondrosis, the outline of which can be felt clear and unobscured by swelling of any kind. AVlien the abscesses are opened, the sinuses that result will lead directly down to the rough and carious bone, examination of which will leave no doubt as to the nature of the cases. In these cases, also, no change takes place in the length of the limb, or in the position of the side of the ilium. ^ hen the acetabulum is primarily affected, the difficulty of diagnosis may he greater, in consequence of the large size and often intrapelvic nature of the abscesses, and the co-existence of a certain amount of displacement or elonga- tion of the limb. But here the same circumstances that enable the Surgeon to