TUBERCLE OF THE PROETATE. 1067 it The Symptoms are obscure pain and in’ital)ility about the neck of the sadder, with the occasional passage of blood. Digital examination by the iis|“Ctnm will probably detect a hard, ill-dehned mass, occupying the situation i| the iwostate, nodular on the surface, and often peculiarly fixed. It is ,(ii|sightly tender on ju-essure. The rapid increase in size, with obstruction to fs|.'.e passage of urine, and frc»iuent hmmaturia and increasing pain, will reveal II e true nature of the disease. !|i The only 'Treatment that c-an be adopted is that calculated to relieve the §1 adder from the mechauietd obstacle to the escape of urine, and to palliate || tfiferiug by ordinary means. I' Tubercle of the Prostate is not uncommonly met with. It usually forms part of extensive tubercular disease of the genito-urinary tract. In fact it is cje to tind it sufficiently advanced for a diagnosis to be made without one or oth epididymes being similarly affected, and it is often very difficult to tell ffiere the disease originally commenced. The vesiculm seminales are usually apliaited, and the tubercular infiltration frequently extends to the floor of the . adder. Not unconmionly it is associated wnth tubercle of the kidney. The >:)st mortem appearances are those of tubercle elsewhere. Softening yellow masses are found usually near the urethral surface. After a time the mucous :.embrane gives way, and a ragged cavity with yellow walls is left in the floor ' the prostatic urethra. Sometimes the tubercular abscess may open into the !ctum, and thus a fistula may be left between the urethra and the bowel, lore rarely it causes an aliscess pointing forwards in the perinmum. Tubercle 1 the lungs is usually present at death. The Symptoms vary very much,. 3cording to the situation of the ulceration. If it is limited to the prostate, may cause sui’j:)risingly little disturbance. In a case which occurred in diversity College Hospital, the patient died of tubercular meningitis, some ; ionths after castration for tul)ercular testicle. At the post mortem examina- on two cavities were found in the prostate large enough to admit the top of !iie thumb, but the patient had made no complaint of any urinary trouble, ff the ulceration extend towards the bladder, there may be extreme symptoms ff irritable bladder. Digital examination by the rectum shows the prostate ; be hard, nodidar, and iiTegularly enlarged. Sometimes a softening patch lay be detected in it. The vesiculm seminales, if they can be reached, are >sually found to l^e enlarged. There may be a juiruleiit discharge from the rethra, and pus in the urine. The detection of the tubercle bacillus would I eeteraiine the nature of tlie case. The 'Treatment is merely iDalliative. The } Isease is too widely disseminated Avhen first recognized to make it possible to o aiij'thing by e.xposing the gland and scraping it. Cysts or Cavities are sometimes found in the prostate; they may be ilatations of gland-follicles, abscesses, or cavities containing concretions or ilculi. Prostatic Calculi have been already described in the Chapter on Urinary I'alcnlus (Yol. II., ]). D80).