6' YSTO TOM Y 0 F IR RITA IIIE BLA D D ER. 1037 ver.il patients wlio had heeii operated on for stone, and who, some years jifterwards, snflered from gouty irritability of the bladder, imagine, but Toiieonsly, that they were labouring under a recurrence of the calculus, so ; losely do the two classes of symptoms coincide in character. A tew eases, however, will be met with now and then, in which, in spite ot le most careful examination and prolonged observation, no tangible cause 'ill be found for the irritability of the Idadder. Treafnient.—In the treatment of irritability of the bladder it must be orne in mind that this condition is not a substantive disease, but is anassem- Lige of symptoms resulting from the influence of a great number of xary arious causes, which must first be removed before the bladder can recover its t ormal sensibility and tone. When once the occasioning cause as been > enioved, Avhether that be a calculus, or gout, or prostatic disease, or a pile, uch local vesical irritability as may remain may be removed by alkaline and lucilaginous drinks. Sedatives may be of use ; some in one case, others in .nother. Opium and belladonna, either by mouth or in suppository, are : mongst the best. Henbane, or Indian hemp, suits some patients ; and chloral ss amongst the most generally useful remedies. The diet should be carefully f tegulated, and warm hip-batlis used frequently. Cystotomy.—In cases in which no tangible cause can be found and ’ emoved, and Avhich prove hopelessly intractable to every means of treatment ocal and constitutional, nothing can be more miserable than the state of the mfortunate victim of an “irritable bladder.” In such extreme and long- ;ontinued cases in which the patient’s life has become a burden to him, in vhich every constitutional remedy and local sedative has been unavailingly ried, the idea has occurred to Surgeons of incising the inflamed and diseased )arts by an operation as for lithotomy. Guthrie, who in 1834 strongly •'ecommeuded this procedure, states that Sir W. Blizard successfully practised t in several cases as far back as 1806, dividing the enlarged prostate and neck t )f the bladder with a double gorget. Of late years it has been projDOsed (o make au incision as for median or medio-lateral lithotomy, into the neck )f the bladder, and, l)y introducing a caoutchouc tube, allow the urine to Irain away. This operation has proved successful in the hands of Yerneuil, ind is certainly a proper procedure in hopelessly chronic and otherwise ncurable cases. Irritability of the Bladder in Boys may, as in adults, arise from a variety of causes. Among the less common is stone, but this should always be ixcluded fii’st by careful sounding lest time be lost in useless treatment of ome other supposed cause. A long foreskin, especially Avith accumulation of rthc preputial secretion beneath it, or a phimosis, may give rise to considerable > 'frequency of micturition and pain in a young boy. If neither stone nor i phimosis be present the urine should be examined, and possibly a deposit of « uric acid may be present, which is not uncommon in young children who arc overfed or exposed to an impure atmosphere in a crowded city. If much tnucus be present, or even pus, it may be due to chronic cystitis. This affection appears to be analogous to the strumous inflammation of the mucous membranes of the eyes, nose, and tliroat, that commonly occur in scrofulous c hildren. In this condition the child passes water with great frequency and with much pain ; the urine is offensive, and usually ])hosphatic ; there is much uneasiness complained of about the groins and along the penis ; in fact, many