DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 536 to disturb the circulation tlirougli tlie l)rain. After a moderate quantity of fluid has been withdrawn, the small aperture should be closed with a strip of plaster, and an clastic bandage should be ajiplied round the head so as to compress and to conflne the bones. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the prognosis in these cases is not of a very favourable ch'aracter. DISEASES OP THE EAR. Affections of the Extehnal Ear and Meatus.—Malformations of the lobule are not uncommon. Absence of the pinna or such deformity as completely to close the meatus has also been met with. Hypertrophy of the external ear is sometimes met with in idiots; and in gouty subjects, Tophi, or Gouty Concretions, are occasionally deposited in it. Paget, Bruck, and Vanzetti have described a Fibrous Tumour that occasionally forms in the lobule of the ear from the irritation produced by piercing it, as “ one of the penalties attached to the barbarism of ear-rings.” These tumours are semi-malignant, like the warty growths of cicatrices; and, after excision— their only treatment—are somewhat apt to return. Bloody Tumours, or Hsematomata, are occasionally developed without apparent cause in the external ear of the insane or idiots, and are not uncommon in other patients as the result of injury. They may attain a large size, and are often multiple. Unless they become inflamed, I think it better to leave them untouched, when they will gradually be absorbed. If inflamed, they must be opened. Bezema of the External Ear, sometimes extending into the external meatus, is a common afiection. It occurs in scrofulous children, and in gouty adults. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary princiifles; locally the application of glycerine of borax or of boracic acid ointment, to which a small quantity of extract of belladonna may be added, will be found most useful. Concretions in the Meatus.—We not uncommonly find that the meatus becomes blocked up by accumulations of wax, dark, indurated, and pipe-like, or forming balls and masses that lie in contact with the membrana tympani. These occur chiefly in individuals of the bilioso-phlegmatic temperament, and are a common source of temporary deafness among young people. They not only materially impair the sense of hearing, but are very apt to give rise to noises in the head, and to crackling sensations on opening and shutting the mouth. Their presence is best ascertained by examination with a well- constructed ear-speculum. The Treatment of these concretions consists in softening the wax by the introduction of a little glycerine into the ear for a few nights, and then repeatedly washing out the meatus by the injection of tepid soap and water, thrown in with a large syringe; as the fluid regurgitates from the membrana tympani, it will at length bring away dark and hardened ceruminous masses. Thickening of the Cuticle.—Occasionally the cuticle of the external meatus, and that covering the membrana tympani, becomes thickened and indurated, assuming a dull white appearance. This is commonly a result of eczema, and may give rise to some degree of deafness. In these circum- stances, glycerine, citrine ointment, or solution of nitrate of silver, will be useful in restoring the healthy condition of the part.