1072 DISEASES OF TJIE URETHRA. lew drops of urine be passed into a separate vessel, fiocculi of mucus and pus arc seen floating in it. There is no pain or discomfort in micturition, but the stream may be slightly narrowed, and a few drops of urine may be retained in the urethra, and dribble away afterwards, as in a slight sti-icture. These inflamed ]iatches may usually be detected without difficulty l)y the use of the olive-headed bougie. As the sound passes the inflamed s])ot, the patient will complain of pain, and on withdrawing it a drop of blood may l)e found upon its bulb. A slight feeling of resistance to the instrument is also felt. In other cases the gleet may be due to a chi’onic inflammatory discharge from the glands and follicles of the urethra. Hill states that it occasionally arises also from small vegetations or warts situated immediately inside the meatus. Treat:ment.—The treatment of gonorrhoea must be conducted with re- ference to the stage to which the disease has attained, but especially with regard to the amount of inflammatory action accompanying it. It is of two kinds, rational, and sjjecific or empirical. Both plans are useful, and, indeed, usually necessary for, a proper cure, but they cannot be adopted indiscrimi- nately. Thus, if specific means be employed during the acute inflammatoiy stage of the complaint, much mischief may ensue; whilst, if antiphlogistic treatment be persevered in for too long a time, the disease may be kept up indefinitely. It has been proposed to adopt what has been termed t\\Q alorUve ox remilsive treatment, during the earliest stages of gonorrhoea ; indeed, during the imu- lative period. This method consists either in the injection of a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver into the m’ethra, or in the application to the inflamed mucous membrane of a strong ointment of that salt by means of a bougie smeared with it; other Surgeons, again, have recommended the admi- nistration of very large doses of copaiba at this period. These various plans have, however, deservedly fallen into disrepute. I have on several occasions seen most intense inflammation produced by this mode of treatment, and never, in any case, any good result. Independently of this, it is impossible to know whether the case, in the earliest stage, will prove to be one of simple m’etliritis or a specific gonorrhoea. In the acute inflammatory stage, attended by heat, swelling of the organ, great ardor urinm, and abundant muco-purulent discharge, the treatment must be entirely antiphlogistic, the activity of the measures being propor- - tioned to the intensity of the infiammation. If this be severe, warm hip- ^ baths, poppy fomentations, or the envelopment of the penis in warm water- dressing, will be of essential service. At the same time the urine must be diluted, and its acidity lessened, by the patient drinking large quantities of alkaline diluents—barley-wmter or linseed-tea containing carbonate of potash in solution ; and the skin and bowels may be kept in action by the adminis- tration, every second night, of a dose of blue pill, and every fourth or sixth hour, of a powder composed of a drachm of sulphate of magnesia, 0 grains of nitre, and -Path of a grain of tartar emetic, dissolved in a wine-glass of water. All alcoholic stimulants, spices, salt food, and coffee must be avoided, the diet being restricted to light slops, and perfect rest enjoined. By sucli jneans as these, the activity of the inflammation Avill be gradually lessened, the dis- charge becoming thinner, the smarting in micturition less severe, and the