STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 310 bone may be connected with an arrest of development of the bone from which, it springs. Thus I have seen the lower third of the ulna completely arrested, in its development by the formation of the exostoses at the lower part oi the middle third, the bone being permanently shortened and dwarfed below this point. Treatment.—If an exostosis be so situated as to occasion inconvenience oi- deformity, it will be necessary to remove it ; and as it is a local disease, therel is no fear of its return, provided this be fully done. If, however, the whole ol it be not taken aw^ay, it may grow again ; and Stanley accordingly recom- mends that if it be so situated, as upon the skull, that its base cannot be| extirpated, potassa fusa or nitric acid should be applied to the part that is left,, so as to produce exfoliation of it. The removal of these tumours is Ijesti effected by a Hey’s or a chain saw, or cutting pliers, or a chisel and mallet.. In some situations, as wdien close upon joints, or springing from the cervical vertebrse, they cannot be interfered with ; and in other cases, as occasionally happens in the neighbourhood of the orbit, their density and hardness may be such that the saw can scarcely work its way through them. There is one variety of exostosis which deserves special attention. It is that which springs from the upper surface of the ungual phalanx of the great toe. It forms a small rounded mass, usually about half as large as a cherry, projecting under or beyond the nail, and gi'^dng rise to much pain and inconvenience in walking. Dupuytren, who first described this peculiar variety of the disease, has pointed out the treatment proper for it, which consists in exposing it by a double elliptical incision, and cutting it off with the scalpel, or a small pair of pliers, without amputating the toe. Enchondromata or Cartilaginous Tumours of Bone are often met with. These have already been described when speaking of enchondroma and its pathology (p. 984, Yol. I.), and need not, consequently, be more than alluded to here. They usually require resection or amputation of the affected bone, according to the attaclunents and size of the growth. Fibroma of Bone.—Fibromata are not common in bone ; when they do occur they spring from the periosteum. The situation in which they are most frequently met with is the base of the skull, from which they project down- w^ards into the pharynx and posterior nares, forming the disease known as fibrous polypus of the nose {vide Diseases of the Nose). They are also occa- sionally met with in connection with the jaws. Cystic Tumours of Bone are extremely rare, if we exclude those met with in the jaws, which arise in connection with the teeth, and those in which the cysts are merely an accidental formation in a solid tumour. The cystic tumours described by the older writer’s under the name of Spina Ventosa are always sarcomatous growths in which cysts have developed. N61aton describes simple cysts of bone containing a clear or reddish serous fluid, and lined with a smooth membrane having the appearance of a serous membrane, as being occasionally met with in the long bones. He states that the cysts may be unilocular or mulilocular. He describes but one case as having come under his observation. The tumour occupied the femur, from the trochanter to one inch from the condyles, expanding the whole shaft to a great size. It was composed of an agglomeration of cysts, mostly about the size of a walnut, and separated from each otlier by bony septa. The cysts were filled with reddish serum. He states that