834 INTEST IN A L OBSTR UGTION. large gut as many feet may be involved, Tlie inner and middle tubes show, as a rule, marked evidence of strangulation. They are intensely injected with blood and swollen, and the mesentery included in the space between is in a similar condition. It is this swelling that offers the great barrier to reduc- tion. The strangulation is caused by the closely ])acked folds of the sheath at the point of reflection between it and the reflected tube. The fate of an uurelieved intussusception varies according to circumstances. If the strangu- lation is very slight, not being sufficient to cause gangrene of the inner and middle tube, while at the same time it seriously or completely obstructs the passage of fleces, death must inevitably occur sooner or later. If the constric- tion is sufiicieiit to cause gangrene, adhesions may form between the upper part of the entering tube and the reflection between the sheath and the re- flected tube, the gangrenous portion may then be cast off into the bowel, and complete recovery take place. Unfortunately the patient often perishes from exhaustion before this is accomplished. The causes of intussusception are often uncertain. In children they are sometimes due to the irritation of worms or to the straining accompanying dysenteric diarrhoea. In adults the invagination not unfrequently commences at the seat of a tumour. The symptoms of intussusception may be acute or chronic, according as it is more or less tightly strangulated. In all cases the .invasion is sudden, the patient feeling that something has gone VTong internally. If the case is acute, the signs of urgent intestinal strangulation are well marked, usually accompanied by tenesmus with the passage of a bloody mucous or glairy dis- charge. Vomiting soon sets in, but does not become feculent for some time. In such cases the patient, especially if a young child, will die in the course of five days or a week from collapse. If older, he may recover after gangrene and separation of the included part of the intestine. Chronic cases occur more frequently in adults, but may be met with in children. In these the symptoms are more obscure. There is a sudden invasion, followed by paroxysmal pain, with some vomiting. The bowels may not be completely obstructed, fecal matter escaping in small quantities, often mixed with blood, and this condition may last for some weeks, at last ending in complete ob- struction. The abdominal distension is usually not great. The acute intus- susception is usually situated in the ileum or at the ileo-colic valve in children; the chronic is commonly at the ileo-colic valve or in the colon in adults. In all cases of intussusception there is a tumom* at the seat of disease which can usually be felt through the abdominal walls. It is sausage-like in form, doughy to the feel, and becomes tense under manipulation from the peristaltic contraction of the gut composing it. It is tender, and the hardening during manipulation is accompanied by some griping pain. If the case be watched from the beginning, the tumour will be found to change its position as the i invagination progresses ; thus, when beginning at the ileo-colic valve, it will be first felt in the right iliac fossa, subsequently in the umbilical region, and often at last in the left iliac fossa. If the intussusception be ileo-cajcal or of] the great intestine, it often descends low enough to be felt by passing the finger up the rectum. In one case, related by Hutchinson, the intussuscep- tion was of such length that the inverted ileo-colic valve was extruded for some inches beyond the child’s anus, and had been mistaken for and treated as a prolapsus. Such a condition is easily recognized by passing the finger