723 PAINFUL MAMMARY TUMOUR. may very rapidly grow to a great size. In a case on Avliich I operated some I years ago, the tnmonr had contimied for eighteen years about the size of a jbwalnut, but in the course of six months it increased to an enormous magni- |i tude, and on removal weighed nearly five pounds. This tumour usually commences as a small, movable, finely nodulated i :;rt)wth, attached by a pedicle to one side of the mammary gland; it is hard I ;i.nd incompressible, often appears isolated, and is not generally painful, but in j inaemic women may be the seat of intense neuralgic pain ; it increases slowly, I vithout discolouring the skin or becoming attached to it, and is frequently iiany years in attaining a moderate size. It is often floating, as it were, in :he substance of the gland, into which it can be pushed back. This tumour i-s sometimes mistaken for a cancerous growth, and the diagnosis is often as j-lifficult as it is important, though in many cases the comparative youth of i he patient, the mobility of the mass, the absence of all implication of the I .kin and glands, and its accurately circumscribed character will indicate its •me nature. Cysts and chronic interstitial inflammation of a lobule are often huistaken for adenoma, and in many cases the distinction is very difficult, rihe diagnosis is made by the more accurate circumscription of the flbro- l^idenoma, and by its being usually clearly separable from the mamma, and not onnected with the nipple by a cord of duct Avhicli can be felt on drawing the [rumour away fi’om the nipple while that is gently held between the Anger and humb. On examination after removal, an adenoma appears to be irregularly )bulated, is enclosed in a capsule of areolar tissue, and its cut surface is found 0 present a bluish- or greyish-white colour, Avhich after exposure to the air, ["Ssumes a rosy tint; and on pressure, drops of a thick mucous or serous fluid •re often seen to exude. On examination with a lens, its foliated structure is [ften very apparent, so much so, that it has been compared by Yirchow to the (!Ction of a cabbage. This is more clearly seen after it has been a few days 1 spirit. Adeno-sarcoma.—An adeno-ffbroma, though usually very chronic in its ■'■ogress, may at times assume extreme rapidity of gi-owth, so as to simulate a hft cancer. This happens usually in those cases in which the tumour has miained in a quiescent state from an eai’ly period up to about the middle of •h. In cases in which the disease developes for the first time between the res of 35 and 40 it may grow quickly from the first. In these cases it Avill .’OAV with extreme rapidity, attaining in a few months a size equal to that of cocoa-nut, or even larger, and simulating in this respect the progress of an icephaloid tumour. These rapidly growing adeno-sarcomata are painless, id, as a rule, however large, continue perfectly movable, free from deep Ihesion, or from glandular implication; the skin covering them is healthy, inned, and unadherent, the nipple projecting usually very prominently. ;ne tumour itself will be felt to be nodulated, semi-elastic, not stony, and '*vays rounded in outline. After removal its section is lobulated and glisten- i;, something resembling a mass of rice or sago-jelly, often having cysts terspersed through its substance. ‘Painful Mammary Tumour.—It occasionally hapjicns that an adeno- iroina becomes the seat of very severe and paroxysmal neuralgic pains, tended with very considerable cutaneous sensibility, and it has then been rmed the jjad///// mammary (amour. This condition most frequently occurs 3 A 2