670 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. should he kept moist by steam carried into the room from the spout of a kettle. This is especially important in children, to ])revent the diyin^r of the mucus during sleep. Hot fomentations may be applied to the throat, and the patient should he made to inhale the steam from a ])int of boiling water, to which a teaspooufiil of compound tincture of benzoin has been added. A free jmrge will be usually found useful at the onset of the attack, and should there be much pain and cough small doses of opium should be administered. Should symptoms of dyspnoea appear, indicating a tendency for the inflammation to assume the oedematous form, more active measures must be adopted, which will be described with that affection. Acute (Edematous Laryngitis may arise as an intensification of simple catarrhal inflammation, as an independent affection by extension from neigh- bouring parts, or as a complication of various chronic affections of the larynx. In many cases it seems to be distinctly erysipelatous in character, occurring as the result of exposure to the impure air of crowded hospitals, to sewer gas, or to the specific infection of erysipelas. In fact it appears to be at times epi- demic, and in its pathological conditions to resemble closely phlegmonous erysipelas of the part, the mucous membrane becoming red, pulpy, and swollen, and the submucous tissue infiltrated with sero-purulent fluid. OEdematous laryngitis is occasionally met with in fevers, especially in scarlet fever, and it is predisposed to in some cases by Bright’s disease. It is most commonly met with in adults, being very rare before the age of eighteen. The symjjtoms are usually well marked. The fauces are reddened, dusky, and swollen ; diffi- culty in swallowing is often an early and prominent symptom, and continues throughout; dyspnoea, often of a spasmodic character, then appears, the lips becoming livid, the nostrils dilated, the features pale and bedewed with per- spiration, the eyes watery and bloodshot, and the respiratory muscles are called into violent action ; gasping efforts at breathing and sudden fits of increased difficulty in inspiring come on ; at the same time the pulse is feeble, though it continues rapid ; and, unless efficiently relieved, the patient will speedily sink. The voice is at first hoarse, but is speedily lost, and there may be some tenderness about the larynx. The dyspnoea is usually peculiar in character in the intervals between the spasms. Inspiration is always more or less difficult, as the swollen oedematous parts fall together in a valve-like manner over the opening of the glottis. Expiration, on the other hand, may be comparatively easy. The fatal result is frequently due directly to spasm. The spasms come on early, and are very apt to be brought on by speaking or swallowing ; but as the disease advances the dyspnoea becomes more continuous, until stupor at length supervenes, and speedily terminates in death. There is usually well- marked • febrile disturbance. If the finger be passed over the back of the tongue the rigid swollen epiglottis may be clearly felt. Laryngoscopic exami- nation shows the epiglottis forming a red semi-transparent roll, usually bent upon itself transversely. It may completely conceal the parts beneath, but in many cases the oedematous arytaeno-epiglottidean folds may be seen on each side. It is rarely possible to obtain a view of the cords. The oedematous infiltration in this form of laryngitis is confined principally to the submucous areolar tissue around the epiglottis, in the arytjcno-epiglot- tidean folds, and over the arytmnoid cartilages. In these situations the tissue is distended with an abundant inflammatory exudation, of an opalescent appearance, so that the swollen membrane may almost completely occlude the 11: Hi ■ 1 \ ; ,1 • » i' 1 i h i : I '1 ;» I