URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 938 bladder. This curious phenoiiieiioii, which has been met with only in uric acid calculi, may happen to a stone that is single, or to one among several. AVhen it occurs, great irritability of the bladder is set up. There are several ways of explaining this fracture, or rather disintegration, of a calculus. Civiale supposes it to occur by the contraction of the hypertrophied coats of the bladder upon the stone. It is possible that, when there are several calculi in the bladder, the concussion of one against another may give rise to it; and for the breaking up of a calculus to happen, it w'ould by no means be necessary that this pressure of the bladder or concussion should be sufficiently strong to resolve the stone at once into fragments. If a crack or fissure merely Ije formed in it, the infiltration of the urine into this may so soften and loosen its cohesion, that it becomes resolved, without further violence, into a number of pieces. In some instances these become agglomerated together, by the deposit of a quantity of phosphatic matter upon and around them. In other cases, the different fragments may each form the nucleus of a fresh calculus, so that the bladder may afterwards contain numerous concretions. Physical Charactees.—The Size of calculi varies from that of a hemp- seed or pin’s head to a concretion of immense magnitude. One of the largest with which I am acquainted, was a calculus removed by the high operation by Uytterhoeven of Brussels, which I saw some time ago in his possession, and of which he has been obliging enough to give me a cast; it is pyriform, and measures 19|- inches in its longest circumference, and 12| inches round at its broadest part, being 6| inches long, and about 4 wide. In the celebrated case of Sir W. Ogilvie, Cline attempted, but failed, to extract a calculus measuring IG inches round one axis and 14 round the other. It weighed 44 ounces, and must have been about the size of Uytterhoeven’s. These enormous concretions- are happily rarely met with at the present day; the usual size of stones removed by operation being from about one to two inches in the longest diameter, some- what narrow, and perhaps flattened. The Weight of calculi varies from a few grains to several oimces ; the commonest weight is from three drachms to about an ounce, reaching occasionally fr’om three to six ounces ; from this they may range upwards until several pounds are reached. Thus, in Cline’s case the stone weighed 44 ounces. Deschamps saw one of 51 ounces, and Morand one weighing 6 lbs. : none of these admitted of removal. The largest calculi are usually composed of phos- phates, in greater part if not in whole. Large and heavy calculi are certainly less frequently met with now than formerly, owing to operations for stone being simpler and less dreaded since the introduction of anEesthetics, and hence practised in an earlier stage of the disease. The Hardness of calculi varies considerably ; the oxalate of lime is the hardest; the lithates come next in consistence, and are often very hard, though brittle; the phosphatic calculi are always comparatively soft and friable. The Shape of calculi presents great variety; most commonly, however, they have an ovoid figure. Concretions of urate of ammonia and uric acid are generally pretty regularly ovoidal, smooth, and disc-like. Those composed of oxalate of lime are usually somewhat globular or square-shaped, and generally rough, nodulated, or spiculated upon the surfiice. The phosphatic calculi present usually the most iiTegular outline ; most commonly, it is true, they are ovoid or globular, but are not unfrequently branched, as if moulded to the