DISEASE,':; OE THE TESTIS AND CORD. 1186 been completely impotent for the twenty-four ju-ececling years, spermatozoa in considerable quantities were after death found in the testes, ^s•hich were carefully examined Avith the view of ascertaining Avhether they ever secreted semen. Eetention of both testicles, or atrophy of both glands from mumps, will of course cause impotence. Temporary impotence from nervousness is not uncommonly met with in young men immediately after marriage. In these cases the treatment recommended by Sir A. Cooper, of ordering some harmless medicine, and forbidding the patient to attempt connection, will usually be elfectual. Sterility in the male is a condition that has attracted some amount of attention of late years. It is, of course, not unfrequently connected with, and probably dependent on, the same conditions that give rise to the various forms of sexual debility that have just been described. But it may occur inde- pendently of any of these states, in iiidhdduals, indeed, who are possessed of a very considerable amount of sexual desire and vigour. It Avould appear to be due to some morbid condition of the seminal fluid, in consequence of ivhich the spermatozoa are either absent, or are possessed of insuflicient vitality to effect impregnation. The causes of this condition are very obscure ; but over- indulgence in sexual intercourse appears to be amongst the most frequent. It would seem as if each individual were endowed Avith a certain amount (ff procreative power, AAdiich, if early exhausted, or habitually Avasted in indis- criminate intercoiu’se, cannot be restored. Hence, polygamists in the East, or their Western congeners, do not propagate, as a rule, more than the aA'erage number of children. Amongst organic causes of this state, chronic epi- didymitis appears to be the most frequent (p. 1150). The only Treaimeni that can be adopted with any prospect of success, is in the one case prolonged avoidance of sexual excitement, and ill the other the remoATil of local disease existing in the urethra or testis, such as stricture, or thickening or condensa- tion of structure, by the long-continued use of absorbent remedies on general principles. Tonics are A'ahieless in such cases. Sterility arises also from malformation of the penis, such as complete hypospadias, and more rarely ft’om the size of the male organ rendering complete coition impossible. In conclusion I need scarcely say that, in the treatment of that general melancholia or hypochondriasis that accompanies these A'arious affections, much good may be effected by means that directly influence the spirits and the mental condition of the patient. He should be encouraged to travel, to occupy himself AA'ith healthy out-door pursuits and amusements, to take regular exercise, to avoid all enervating habits ; and, above all, his mind should be cheered by the hope of eventual cure. Should there be any local disease, such as balanitis, phimosis, or varicocele, that should be subjected to treatment or operation.