EXLARGEMENT OF THE PRE-lIYOIDEAN BURSA. 481 the hand ^Yhen the tumour is manipulated. This arises from the melon-seed bodies floatiu? about and rubbino: ao;aiust each other The Treatment of this alfectioii consists in making an incision, with anti- septic precautions, free enough to allow the melon-seed bodies to pass out. The cavity may then be syringed out two or three times with carbolic acid lotion, to ensure the removal of all the solid bodies ; a drainage-tube is then inserted and retained for a week or ten days, the wound being treated by some form of antiseptic dressing. Solid Tumours may be formed in connection with the bursa patellae. By many these are supposed to be the result of a deposition of a fibroid material, which gradually takes the place of the fluid of an ordinary “ housemaid’s knee,” and which, instead of taking the form of melon-seed bodies, is de- posited in concentric masses, and thus accumulated in the interior of the cyst. This has not been the case, however, in many instances that I have seen. In these ca^es I believe there is a true fibroid growth in the wall of the bursa from the very first ; the tumour is never fluid, but hard and solid from the commencement, and continues slowly to augment in size, until it occasions sufficient inconvenience to require removal. In some cases there has been a previous syphilitic taint; the patient complains of pain in the tumour like that which is experienced in nodes, and it is by no means impossible that there may be a syphilitic origin for these tumours. However that may be, in the cases that have fallen under my observation, the tumours have never been fluid, nor have they originated in pressure, but appear to have been primary deposits of fibroid matter. Treatment.—There is nothing to be done with such tumours but to dissect them out. This may be required in one or in both knees. With the most ordinary care the joint runs no risk ; but much trouble may arise from open- ing up that layer of deep fascia which, after surrounding the knee, is fixed to the borders of the patella. Such an accident is liable to be followed by infil- tration and deep abscess in the ham, unless careful attention be paid to drainage and to the prevention of decomposition in the discharges. In order to provide more efficient drainage, it will often be found convenient to remove the tumour by a curved incision at the outer border of the tumour instead of in the middle line. This plan has been repeatedly tried in University College Hospital with the best results. Diseases of other Bursae.—The diseases of the Bursa Patellm being taken as the type, the affections of the other more important bursse require to be but briefly alluded to. Enlargement of the Pre-hyoidean hnrsa or of that between the genio- hyoid muscles is not very uncommon, forming a large, thin-walled fluctuating tumour in the front of the neck and beneath the chin. When the bursa between the genio-hyoid muscles is the seat of disease, the cyst may push up into the floor of the mouth between genio-hyoglossi. When the pre- hyoidean bursa is affected the cyst tends to extend downwards over the larynx, forming one of the varieties of the so-called “ hydrocele of the neck.” Treatment.—These cysts can usually be cured by tapping, with injection of chloride of zinc or tincture of iodine, followed by antiseptic drainage. The walls are too thin and their attachments too deep to make it advisable to attempt their removal by dissection. The Bursa beneath the Deltoid is not uncommonly enlarged. The VOL. II. . .