578 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Treatment.—Tlie treatment of necrosis of tlie jaws presents nothing special. 'J'hc removal of the sequestra should he eifected as far as practicable through tlie interior of the mouth, by free incisions through the gums. In the vjjper jaw, where the necrosis seldom extends beyond the alveolar border or the palatal process, this may always readily be done. In the tower jaw, the question as to whether the dead bone should be ex- tracted through the inside of the mouth, or by incision from without through the cheek, will be determined partly by the position of the sinuses and partly by the situation and extent of the bone affected. This may in a great measure be ascertained by the situation of the sinuses leading down to it. If these he in the cheek, or in the side of the neck, or under the angle of the jaw, it is usually an indication that, if the whole of the corresponding ramus or body of the bone be not involved, the posterior and outer parts are certainly affected ; and, in these circumstances, extraction of the sequestrum is best effected by opening up the sinuses parallel to the line of the jaw, and removing the necrosed bone in the usual way. The incisions for this purpose need not usually be very extensive. If the operation be delayed, in accordance with those principles that guide us in the management of necrosed bone generally, until the seques- trum is quite loose, it may usually be readily extracted, in whole or in pieces, through an opening that will leave but a small cicatrix. By such operations as these, the whole of the lower jaw has been extracted piecemeal at intervals in a state of necrosis, first on one and then on the other side. Carnochan has removed the whole of the necrosed lower jaAv at one operation, disarticulating first one and then the other condyle in the usual way. If, however, there be no external abscess or sinus—if the gum have been loosened and perforated, with a ragged portion of sequestrum projecting through it into the ca^dty of the mouth, then no external incisions will be re- quired, but the dead bone may readily be removed from within «/ the mouth. Large portions of the jaw may thus be removed. I have taken away the whole of the ramus with its processes, entirely through the gums, without any external incision: and, in a iiegTO, the whole of the bone in a state of necrosis has thus been removed in sepa- rate pieces, by Perrv, thrpugli Fig. «73.-Wood-s Caee^of K.oSFl»n.s-Necro3» of entito Reproduction of the Jaw after Removal.—The amount of regeneration of bone will depend greatly upon the state of the periosteum before the removal of the sequestia. If this be healthy, and if new bone have already formed prior to operation, a very perfect reproduction of the portions of jaw removed may take place, in fact, complete reproduction of the whole of the lower jaw, body, rami, and epiphyses, though in a somewhat rudimentaiy and imjieifect form. f