457 IIIP-JOINT DISEASE—WEIGHT EXTENSION. counter-extension, and if necessary the foot of the bed may be raised on blocks to prevent the patient slippins*’ down in the bed. The most convenient form of weight is a tin can filled with shot or water, till the degree of extension obtained is comfortable to the patient. The pulley and weight arc to be adjusted in such a way that the extension shall act on the limb directly in the line of its abnormal position. To do this the diseased limb must be raised till the lumbar spine is in contact with the bed, and the degree of abduction or adduction must correspond to that noted before the apparatus was applied. During the acute stage any forced attempt to di'ag the limb immediately into its normal position would only aggravate the pain, but by making the extension as above described, it will be found that the limb Fig. 583.—Apparatus for Extension by Weights in Hip-joint Disease. speedily falls into the proper position. At the end of each day the pulley must be readjusted so as to gradually bring the limb parallel to its fellow. In recent cases a few days 'will often sulRce to bring the limb into its normal position, in more advanced cases some weeks may be required. If the treatment has to be continued for any length of time, the apparatus repre- sented in Fig. 583 may be employed. In it the pelvis and body are fixed to the bed by means of broad felt straps and buckles. A leather ankle-strap is then placed round the foot and lower part of the leg, and a padded belt above the knee. From the sides of each of these, straps are carried to a point six or eight inches beyond the foot, where they are attached to a transverse iron rod, four inches long. From this the cord suspending the weight passes over a pulley-ft'ame fixed to the end of the bed. The weight applied should be from two to three pounds in children up to six years of age ; four pounds between the ages of six and ten ; five or six pounds from ten to thirty. If the long splint alone be used, it must be applied as for fractured thigh, the perineal band being dispensed with if it causes pain. A single long splint, though moderately efficient in the adult, is of little use in children, as they always manage by twisting the body to maintain a considerable degree of flexion with adduction or abduction. Hamilton’s double long splint (Fig. 238, Vol. I., p. 004) should therefore be applied, by \vhich much better position is obtained. Weight extension can be applied with this if required. When there is much adduction or abduction, the part of the splint corresponding to the hip-joint on the diseased side may be sawn through and fitted with a hinge, allowing of movement in the required direction, the lower end beiiur at