77H JIERNIA. DiAcimsis.—The diagivosis of sfcmiigulateiTlicmia I'ccuiircs to he made from the following conditions. 1. Obstructed Irreducible Hernia.—In this there are no acute synijAoms, and the rupture will generally he found to he a large one of old staudiug. Ifc may become somewhat tense and swollen, hut is not tender to the touch, and always presents a certain degree of impulse on coughing. There may he consti]3atioii ; but there is no vomiting, or, if there be any, it is simply mucous and bilious, consisting of the contents of the stomach. The speedy restoration of the intestinal action, by the treatment already indicated as proper in these cases, will remove any doubt as to the nature of the affection. 2. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia.—Here there are great tenderness and pain in the tumour, with pyrexia, and some general peritonitis, but there is no vomiting ; or, if the j>atient have vomited once or twice, he does not continue to do so with the same degree of violence, or in the same quantity, as he would if it were the result of strangulation. Again, the constipation is not absolute and entire, but flatus and liquid fasces will usually pass.^ 8. General Peritonitis conjoined with Hernia.—Here the diagnosis is often extremely difiicult, especially if the hernia be an irreducible one. In these cases, however, it may be observed that the peritonitis is most intense at a distance from the sac ; that there will be little or no vomiting, or, if there be, that it is simply of mucus and the contents of the stomach ; and that the constipation is by no means obstinate or insurmountable by ordinary means. 4. In Double Hernia, one tumour may be strangulated and the other not, though irreducible. In these circumstances, it may at first be a little difficult to determine which one is the seat of constriction. This, however, may be ascertained by observing greater tension and tenderness about the neck of the strangulated than of the unconstricted hernia. 5. The co-existence of Early Pregnancy, or a threatened Miscaridage, may obscure the diagnosis, the Surgeon possibly being in doubt whether the vomiting is dependent on the state of the uterus or on the strangulation of the hernia. Here it may be stated generally that the vomiting of pregnancy never becomes stercoraceous ; that constipation is not complete, flatus if not fmces passing ; and that the local signs of strangulation are usually well marked. Besides these various conditions of hernia, which may be confounded Avith strangulation, there are other tumours which may be mistaken for this disease : but these Ave shall have to consider AA'hen speaking of the special forms of hernia. Treatment.—The treatment of strangulated hernia is one of the most important subjects in surgeiy. The object to be accomplished is the removal of the constriction from the strangled hernial tumour. This is efiected either by the Reduction of its Contents by Taxis ; or by the Division of the Stricture. Taxis.—The reduction of the hernia is effected by the employment of the taxis, by which is meant the various manual procedures employed in putting the rupture back. The taxis, Avhen properly performed, is seldom attended by any serious consequences to the patient. I have iieA'cr seen it folloAvcd by death ; and out of 2!)3 cases of hernia reported by liuke, as haying been reduced by taxis in the London Hospital, none died. In the l\eix)rts of