ioo6 UlUNARY CALCULUB AND LITIIOTRITY. by Clover’s apparatus, or by Sir i\ Cramptoii’s device, whieli consisted in exhausting- the air from a pro])crly-constriicted bottle, fitted with a stop-eoek, and then attaching this to a catheter previously introduced, and opening the stop-cock, when the pressure of the atmosphere drove the contents of the bladder, urine and grit, into the exhausted bottle. With the present cvacuators moderate enlargement of the prostate can scarcely be termed an inconvenience. As a general rule it is neither necessary nor desirable to turn the blades of the lithotrite downwards, lest the floor of the bladder be injured ; but when the prostate is enlarged, the stone, if small, or the fragments after the first crushing, fall into a pouch behind the neck of the bladder, and it is then impossible to seize them except by this manoeuvre. When the blades are reversed the handle of the lithotrite must be well depressed between the patient’s thiglis, the blades are then gently opened and closed over the base of the bladder. When the stone is seized the blades must be carefully turned into the ordinary position before it is crushed. Dangers in Lithotrity.—The principal dangers in lithotrity arise from the state of the bladder and kidneys. When death follows the operation, it results, in the great majority of cases, from septic suppuration of the kidney, preceded by cystitis. Atony of the bladder adds seriously to the dangers. Pyaemia is a rare complication. Cystitis.—The occurrence of cystitis was formerly attributed solely to the mechanical irritation to which the bladder is subjected during the operation. The success which has attended lithotrity at a single sitting has however demonstrated beyond a doubt that the bladder is much more tolerant of mechanical irritation than was at one time believed. The effect produced directly by the operation is, in most cases, limited to slight catarrhal m- flammatioii, with an abundant secretion of mucus and some irritability of the bladder. In the operation by numerous sittings this was frequently aggravated by the presence of large and angular fragments. The thick mucus secreted under these circumstances is never perfectly expelled, but a certain amount remains adhering to the mucous membrane of the bladder after micturition. This speedily undergoes decomposition, and the most potent cause of cystitis is the contact of this foul mixture of mucus and urine within the interior of the bladder. When decomposition sets in, the alkaline products of the decomposing urine render the mucus thick and ropy, and this still further adds to the difficulty of its complete expulsion. Under these circumstances the patient becomes poisoned by the absoi-ption of the putrid contents of the inflamed bladder, the temperature rises,- the, tongue becomes brown, and if not relieved the condition will very likely terminate in death, the immediate cause of the fatal result being, in most cases, extension of the decomposition to the pelvis of the kidney and setting up suppurative nephritis. Such a condition necessarily ofifem an insuperable obstacle to any farther crushing operation, supposing any stone to be still present, and the only course that gives a chance of life is to perform median lithotomy, by which not only are the fragments removed but the bladder is efficiently drained of its decomposing contents. The prevention of this complication is best accomplished by the use of antiseptics. There is every reason to believe that the putrefaction of the urine is due to the intro- duction of an organized ferment from without. This may be carried in by the instruments or by the water used in washing out the bladder. The