1194 DJSEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. freely ai:)ply pure tincture of iodine to the interior of the womb, in order to avoid the risks of septic mischief otherwise liable to ensue. Malignant disease of the uterus may occur in any one of the three following forms, viz.: as glandular carcinoma (usually of the medullary type); as epithelioma ; or very rarely as sarcoma. (1.) Glandular carcinoma, which is much the most common fonn of malignant disease here met with, commences as a hard somewhat nodulai' hypertrophy of the cervix, with a tendency speedily to affect the neigh- bouring tissues of the broad ligaments, thereby leading to early impairment of the natural mobility of the uterus. As the disease progresses, infiltration rapidly extends, until the pelvic organs are found completely fixed, and surrounded by the new growth. Destructive changes next take place in the tissues implicated, usually accompanied by fetid discharge, and by occasional attacks of hoemorrhage. The amount of pain complained of varies in different cases, but it is often of a most severe character. General constitutional cachexy ensues, and the patient dies exhausted. Treatment in advanced cases must necessarily be pm-ely palliative, the chief indications being to control hemorrhage, relieve pain, and sustain the patient’s strength by suitable nourishment. In the earlier stages of the affection, before there is any apparent implication of neighbouring parts, attempts arc occa- sionally made to arrest the disease either by excision and the use of the cautery, or else by resorting to the solvent properties of a strong bromine solution injected into the diseased tissues. Such treatment, although, perhaps, justifi- able, can be ol little use in retarding the progress of the malady. Complete extirpation of the uterus, practised per vagiuam or by abdominal section, is a procedui-e which, unless resorted to in the very earliest stage of the disease, when the uncertainty of diagnosis must render its adoption bai’ely justifiable, cannot possibly hold out hopes of prolonging life. The immediate results of the operation have so far proved most disastrous in this countiy ; while in the very few exceptional cases where the patient has survived, re- currence of the disease has invariably taken place within the course of a few months. (2.) Epithelioma of the uterus, commonly known as cauliflower ex- crescence, commences as a papillomatous growth, afiecting the mucous lining of the cervix, which rapidly spreads to a soft fungating mass, with a tendency to implicate neighbouring parts. While still confined to the tissues of the cervix, the disease may be eradi- cated by removal with the ecraseur or by free excision ; but if once the broad ligaments have been invaded, rapid infiltration takes place, and the affection inevitably proves fatal. (8.) Sarcoma of the uterus is of very rare occurrence, being met with either as a localized submucous growth, or still more rarely as a diftiise infiltration of the uterine Avail. ’’J’he prognosis is ahvays unfavourable, although less speedily so than in the case of the cancer. When confined to the fundus, the removal of the projecting groAvths may occasionally be effected after dilata- tion of the cervical canal, by means of the curette or sharp spoon, folloAved by the application of strong nitric acid. 'J’he only other treatment likely to prove effectual is extiipition of the entire uterus, as referred to above.