DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. it to be invariably an dlcct of syphilis, but there seems no doubt that this view cannot be maintained. A. E. Barker has paid great attention to this subject, and to his valuable article on the “ Diseases of the Tongue ” in Holmes’s System of Surgery I would refer the reader for more detailed informa- tion than can be given here. He has collected from various sources 110 cases of chronic superficial glossitis. Of these, 101 occurred in males and 1) in females. Of the 101 cases in males, 55 affected the tongue only ; 33 the tongue and cheeks ; 12 the lips and checks ; 1 the hard palate, and in 4 the seat was not mentioned. Of the 110 patients, 33 had certainly had syphilis, and 19 certainly had not; in the remaining cases it was doubtful. The fact that nearly one-third of the patients had suffered from syphilis would suggest that though not the sole cause, it may form an important element in the production of the disease. The disease was associated with psoriasis or eczema in C of Barker’s cases, and with syphilitic psoriasis in 2. It has also been seen associated with icthyosis of the skin. In 75 cases evidence was given as to smoking. Only 4 patients did not smoke, Avhile 46 are said to have indulged in the habit to excess. Smoking may, therefore, be fairly considered to exert some influence on the occurrence of the disease. Chronic dyspepsia and habitual spirit-drinking are also supposed to act as predisposing causes. That dyspepsia should take a part in its causation is not surprising, as it is well known to every smoker that the tongue becomes sore more readily Avhen “ the stomach is out of order.” The Prognosis is always bad as to cure. Of the 110 cases recorded by Barker the disease ended in epithelioma in 43. The average duration of the disease before this took place was 14 years. Such cases must be carefully watched for the earlier signs of the invasion of ej)ithelioma, as by early removal only can the patient be saved. The Treatment is not usually very satisfactory. If there is any evidence of syphilis the patient must be treated for that disease. Smoking, the use of spirits, and hot condiments must be prohibited. Locally, before ulceration has taken place. Barker recommends frequent washing of the mouth with a solution of bicarbonate of soda (gr. xx. to 3j-)- The application of strong caustics to the diseased surface does nothing but harm. If simple ulceration has taken place a solution of bichloride of merciuy (gr. ij. to 3].) applied to the dried tongue with a camel’s-hair pencil twice a day will often be found extremely useful. Its chief value is as an antiseptic, as the surface of the ulcer is apt to become very foul. Other Superficial Affections of the Tongue.—Various other super- ficial affections of the tongue are commonly met with. The small tender whitish patches or aphthae met with so commonly as the result of dyspepsia and thrush belong rather to medicine than to surgery, and need not be described here. A peculiar wandering rash which has been described under the name of “ lichenoid of the tongue ” by Grubler, has been called attention to by Barker in this country, who suggested for it the name of “annidus migrans.” It is characterized by the appearance on the tongue of small circlets or crescentic bands of light-coloured rash, Avhich rapidly sjiread ccntrifugally over the tongue. It causes some salivation and itching. It is not apparently due to the presence of a parasite. The disease runs a chronic course, and no treatment seems to have any effect upon it. Simple Ulceration is not uncommonly met with upon the side of the I I if 0