135 TREATMENT BY INSTRUMENTAL COAIPRESSION. f I I i t r I •I 1: \ •t, 1 % II !The upper extremity must generally be removed at the shoulder-joint; iJie lower above the middle of the thigh. In these cases there will generally be a considerable amount of luemorrhag'e, and many vessels will require to be tied in the stump, in consequence of the enlargement of the collateral circulation. Compression by Instruments.—In consequence of the dangers and diffi- culties attendant upon the use of the ligature, Surgeons have endeavoured to treat aneurism by compression. The employment of direct pressure on the aneurism was almost naturally suggested as a means to counteract the ex- tension of the disease by the pressm-e of the blood from within, and has consequently been applied from a very early period in the treatment of the affection. This plan of treatment was first employed by Bourdelot at the close of the seventeenth centuiy ; afterwards by Genga, Heister, Guattani, and others. These Surgeons made the pressure directly upon the sac ; and Guattani and Flajani relate several cures that they effected in this way ; but the method was so micertain in its results, and so dangerous, from irritating and inflaming the sac, that it fell into disuse. The French 'Surgeons introduced a modification of the pressure plan, by laying open the ■sac, clearing out its contents, and applying the pressure directly over the opening into the vessel. Deschamps exposed the artery leading to the sac, and compressed this with an instrument which he termed the “ presse-artere.” These barbarous modes of treatment, however, were entirely set aside by the ■ facQity and comparative success of the Hunterian operation ; and compres- - sion in aneurism was rarely practised by Surgeons after the gveat step made by John Hunter in the treatment of this disease. Yet we find that John Hunter himself, Blizard, and Fi’eer attempted, though without success, to cm-e i this disease by pressure on the artery leading to the sac. Pelletan and Dubois .appear to have been the first who successfully applied pressure to the a artery above the sac, instead of to the aneurism itself; this was in 1810. . After this period, various attempts were made methodically to treat aneurisms ! in this way ; but the merit of having introduced the practice of compression iin the treatment of aneurism into modern surgery, of having given it a I definite place in our art, and of having established the true principles on which it acts, incontestably belongs to the Dublin Surgeons ; amongst whom the names of Hutton, Bellingham, Tufiiell, and Carte deserve especial . mention. Principle of Compression.—In the early trials of the cure of aneurism by ' compressing the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour, the Surgeons who ■ employed this method acted on an erroneous theory ; and, the principle not : being understood, the practice was bad. It was supposed that it was neces- •sary, in order that a cure might take place, that the ivhole flow of blood t through the artery should be arrested ; that inflammation of the vessel at the I point compressed should 1x3 set up ; and that the consolidation of the aneurism ‘ depended upon the obstniction of the vessel consequent upon this inflamma- t tion. This led to the employment of such violent and forcible compression, '■with the view of exciting inflammation in the artery, that the patient could 'Seldom bear it for a sufficient length of time to effect a cure ; sloughing of the • skin commonly resulting from the severity of the pressure to which it was sub- jected. To the Dublin Surgeons belongs the very gi-eat merit not only of having pointed out the en’or of this doctrine, but of having distinctly laid down as