rAVXJA’)' CALCULUS AXD UTIIOTOMY. 982 lateral true ligaiuout of the bladder is not incised, nor otherwise opened. But, it may be said, what is easier, when the finger is in the bladder, than to push a probe-pointed bistoury along it, and cut downwai-ds and outwards through these structures into the ischio-rectal fossa-, if the stone be large, and thus get plenty of space ? Nothing could be easier or more simple; but what would 1)0 the consequence ? Wc at once reduce the median to the conditions of the lateral operation. A free incision in the neck of the bladder and ]>rostate increases the tendency to ha3morrliage, opens up the fascia, and exposes the patient, in fact, to all the dangers of an ill-contrived lateral operation, destroy- ing at once and altogether the principle of the median operation—A iz., dilata- tion, and not incision ; and, if we do not gain space by incision, but attempt to extract a moderately large stone by dilatation of the parts, we shall certainly not succeed, but our dilatation will end in a laceration, not only of the sub- stance of the prostate, which is safe, but of the neck and perhaps of the base of the bladder, wliich will be fatal. Urinary fistula was common after the old Marian operation. It remains to be seen whether it will be so after the modern median. In conclusion, then, it appears to me that the median operation, when per- formed in suitable cases, has the advantages over the lateral of being attended by less risk of arterial haemorrhage, and less danger of injury to the lateral ligament of the bladder; but, that in consequence of the very small size of the opening that can be made in the bladder by it, in'ovidcd these advantages are onaintained, it is applicable only to stones of at most a medium size, and that it cannot in all cases be substituted for lateral lithotomy, as the general operation for stone, where lithotrity is not admissible. Indications for the Median Operation.—The median operation may with propriety be performed in the following classes of cases. 1. In cases Avhere foreign bodies, such as pieces of bougie, of tobacco-pipe, &c., are lodged in the bladder, the median is preferable, the body being small, elongated, and easily extracted. 2. It may be employed to remove-stones not exceeding one inch in their smallest diameter. But then, it may be said, calculi of this size can generally be safely subjected to lithotrity. That is true ; but, in certain of these cases, lithotrity is not admissible ; so that the median operation is indicated in cases of small calculi in which lithotrity cannot be practised in consequence of infiammation of the bladder, or some other complication. If a small calculus be lodged just behind the prostate, in a pouch which occasionally forms at a lower fundus of the bladder, we may come do^vn on it at once by the median incision. 3. When there are numerous small calculi, lithotrity is not desirable, and then the median operation appears to be preferable. 4. In cases in which lithotrity has been performed, and the patient is unable to expel the fragments, we may perform the median operation, and readily extract the detritus by the scoop, as it lies behind the prostate. 5. In the case also of calculi which are too large to be successfully subjected to lithotrity, but which, if removed by the lateral operation, are attended by a fright- ful rate of mortality, it seems to me that the median operation might possibly bo advantageously combined with lithotrity. The stone having been broken up at one sitting, the fragments might at once be extracted through a limited incision in the mesial line of the perinaeum. 6. In cases in which the patient is so anaemic that the loss of an additional ounce or two of blood might turn the scale against him, median is preferable to lateral lithotomy. For, although it is by