I TREATMENT OF NASO-PHARYNGEAL TUMOURS. 593 I rale, though the more complete operation secures longer immunity. The liability to recuiTence is remarkable in these cases, when we consider how isolated the upper jaw is, being bounded on three sides by the cavities of the mouth, nose, and orbit, and how completely it can be excised. It is, I believe, mainly due to two causes—early implication of the soft parts, and extension of the mischief through the fissures and sinuses behind the bone. These recurrent malignant growths, after removal of the primary tumour, do not admit of extiipation. When the tumour is benign, the result is most satisfactory, and the cure usually complete. Tumours that spring from behind the Superior Maxilla have already been adverted to in speaking of iiaso-pharyngeal tumours (p. 585), and in discussing the diagnosis of tumours of the upper jaw (p. 583). They may grow from the sphenoid bone, or from some of the deep cavities lying between it, the palate bones, and the ethmoid, constituting various forms of naso- pharyngeal, palatine, or naso-palatine polypi. Formerly these tumours were either left untouched, or were extirpated together with the superior maxilla or after its removal. Of late years various operations have been devised without the necessity of removing that bone, which is either tmmed up, domi, or on one side. The best operation on the whole for their removal is Langenbeck’s Osteoplastic Section of the Superior Maxilla, with displacement of that bone. The first operation was performed in 1859. Up to 1877, Langenbeck had performed it 13 times, with 10 complete cures and 3 deaths. It has been performed in Germany also by Esmarch, Wagner, Simon, Nussbaum, and Billroth. The last two performed it for removal of the superior maxillary nerve for neuralgia. In America it has been performed twice by Cheever. In one case, it was done for removal of a tumour growing from the body of the sphenoid bone ; the tumour recurred, and the operation was repeated at the end of eleven months, with perfect success. In the other case, both bones were displaced at the same operation ; but the patient died on the fifth day of “ prostration with excitement.” In Langenbeck’s first operation, the incision was made from the middle of the nasal eminence of the frontal bone towards the right, over the nasal process of the superior maxilla and down- wards to the ala of the nose. The edges of the wound were dissected up so as to expose the whole nasal process and the nasal bone, the periosteum remaining untouched. The cartilaginous portion of the nose Avas separated from its bony attachments. The nasal bone was then cut through Avith bone- forceps, close to the septum, and upwards as far as the frontal bone; by a second cut the nasal process of the superior maxillary was divided into the antnim. The cut ended Avhere the nasal process of the superior I: maxillary bone forms the lower border of the orbit. The upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillaiy and the nasal bone AA'ere then prised |; up and were turned on to the forehead, being still attached by periosteum land mucous memluane. The nose Avas then fully opened, and the polypus was removed. ’I’lie bones Avcre then replaced and supported in position by • a plug of charj}ie. I’lie Avound healed readily, and there Avas no exfoliation c)f bone. Langenbeck’s second operation Avas undertaken for a tumour springing from behind the superioi’ maxillary bone in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Two incisions Avere made ; the first began at the insertion of the ala nasi and ran along the loAver border of the malar bone, describing an arch VOL. II. Q Q