422 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of the spine will be found, except the excurvation. It will be oljservcd that the spiue has lost its natural free mobility and flexibility, moving fixedly, stiffly, and as a whole, when the patient leans forwards or sideways. The patient, when laid flat on his back, cannot raise himself into a sitting position without the aid of his hands or elbows, and he cannot turn sharply and suddenly over upon his face, but struggles with outstretched arms in vain attempts to do so. Occasionally the incipient curvature, when it occnrs, assumes more of a lateral than of an angular direction ; and in one fatal case I have seen the spine actually bent backwards, so as to bei incurvated at the seat of the disease. In some cases, the| true angular excurvation dependent on caries of the bodie.s> of the vertebrae may be associated with the ordinary laterdll curve of debility. The lower limbs become weak, and thoi patient walks with a peculiar shuffling tottering gait, th(j legs being outspread, and the feet turned out. The weakt ness of the limbs is especially marked in going upstairs, and may be tested by directing the patient to stand unsup ported on one leg, and raise the other so as to place th( foot upon the seat of a chair, which he will probably bf unable to do. Not unfrequently there is more or less of i neuralgic affection associated with the muscular weakness. —a species of neuralgic motor paralysis which is ve: characteristic. Sensation is not only perfect, but over-acu in parts, whilst there is an ataxic state of the muscles of thj! lower extremities, presenting a peculiar and characteristij I train of nervous phenomena. The deformity of the spinH may slowly increase ; the patient may become unable ti stand; and paralysis of the muscles of the lower extremity may come oi together with a tendency to relaxation of the sphincter ani, and retention q urme. Paraplegia does not occur so frequently as might have been expecte when we consider the very acute angle that is formed by the diseased spii in extreme cases of excurvation. But the spinal canal is not encroached upo: as there is no displacement of the laminae and transverse processes of vertebrae in the form of dislocation, the deformity being due simply 4 Fig. 570.—Attitude of Cliild in Angular Curvature in Ad- vanced Stage. bending: forwards owing to the destruction of the bodies—hence the cord not compressed as in a dislocation. When paraplegia does occur, it is tl result of compression of the cord at the seat of disease from inflammatoi exudation upon the meninges or in the canal. These become absorbed after I time, and hence the paraplegia is not of a permanent character, but will paa off after some months, or a year or two at most, even though electric irrih ij bility and sensibility may for a time have been completely lost. Pleuritic Attacks of a localized character dependent on extension of tlM inflammations of the vertebral substances to the contiguous pleurm not in commonly occur when the caries affects the dorsal spine. Abscess commonly makes its appearance as the disease progresses ; and some cases it occurs before any of the other signs except pain and weakness the spine, and certainly before any deformity. AVheu the abscess forms, Stanley has observed, the pain consequent on irritation of the spinal cord an nerves is usually lessened for a time.