214 SPECIAL ANEUIUSMS. and perliaps actual injury done to the aneurisinal sac during the operation, are, in many cases, the immediate causes of tlie inflammation and suppuration. The statistics collected by Koch show a much greater mortality in those cases in Avhich the subclavian artery has been tied for spontaneous aneurisms extend- ing above the upper border of the pectoralis minor, than in those below that point. Of 17 of the former 13 were fatal, of 22 of the latter only 10 died. The period at which suppuration of the sac may be expected to occur in cases of axillary aneurism, after the ligature of the subclavian, must necessarily in a great measure be dependent on the state of the sac at the time of the operation. If inflammation have been already set up around it, it may happen a few days after the artery has been tied. But if this morbid j^ro- cess have not already commenced, the period at which suppuration may most probably be expected is between the first and second month. The period at which suppuration and rupture of the sac take place does not influence the probable termination of the case to any material extent ; as, in the cases that prove fatal, death occurred at various periods between the seventh day and the second month ; in Aston Key’s case, on the ninth day ; in Mayo’s on the twelfth ; in Belardini’s and G-rafe’s, at the end of the first month ; in Bigaud’s at the sixth week ; in B. Cooper’s, in the second month. The recoveries, likewise, took place at all periods after the ligature of the vessel, between a few days, as in Porter’s, and six weeks, as in Halton’s case. An axillary aneurism that has suppurated may burst either externally, or into the lungs or pleura, or both. It is most usual for it to burst externally ; I the tumour enlarges, with much pain and tension ; a part of the skin covering : it becomes inflamed ; fluctuation can be here felt, and, if an incision be not , made, the tumour will give way, discharging most usually a quantity of dark- , \ coloured pus, mixed up with more or less broken-down and disintegrated i coagulum, and perhaps sooner or later followed by a stream of arterial blood. i Occasionally, but more rarely, the sac, extending inwards, perforates the : i cavity of the chest and becomes adherent to the pleura, and may give way into I its cavity ; or, by pressing upon the lungs, may become incorporated with j ^ them. Of this remarkable termination two instances are recorded, in one of ' j which recovery took place. ■ The first case of the kind is one in which Bullen hgatured the subclavian , r. artery for axillary aneurism. Eighteen days after the operation the tiunoiu* ■ began to increase, and to take on the symptoms that are indicative of suppu- | ration. On the twenty-sixth day six or eight ounces of bloody pus were ex]3ec- >] torated during a paroxysm of coughing, and the tumour suddenly diminished ^ to one half its size ; it was now punctured, and five ounces of the same kind of I matter were let out with great relief. When the patient coughed, air passed into li and distended the sac through an aperture between the first and second ribs, ^ near their sternal extremities, through which the contents of the tumour had i escaped into the lung. The discharge from the external aperture greatly | decreased ; the cough lessened ; and finally, three months after the operation, y the patient was quite well. Gross tied the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism on the 18th of, ! February. After the performance of the operation the contents of the tumour ‘ c solidified, and its volume progressively diminished. On the 15th of j\Iarch, | i the patient suffered from fever, and slight tenderness on the apex of the i ' ■ tumour was perceptible. On the IGth he was suddenly seized with intense i