ii8 ANEURISM. much impulse and excitability of the heart, and throl)bing of tlie arteries gene- rally. The other condition of the system is found usually in elderly people, in whom there are a feeble pulse, a quiet heart, a cachectic state of health, and a tendency to anmmia; in such a habit of body the disease makes slow progress. In these opposite conditions it is perfectly clear that the same plan of treatment cannot succeed; and that the constitutional means must accordingly be modified according to the state in which the patient is. In the acute or hypercemic state, the plan of treatment originally introduced by Valsalva, and hence called by his name, by which plethora is removed, the irritability of the heart and the force of its action lessened, and the blood brought into a healthy condition, may be advantageously employed, in the modified manner that has b'een recommended and adopted by some modern Surgeons. Pelletan, and Hodgson, and Tufnell especially report very favourably of this treatment, and I have seen several instances in which it has proved decidedly beneficial. As recommended by Valsalva, this method of treatment was in- tended to carry out two important points : 1, by a process of gradual starvation and depletion to reduce the quantity of blood in the system, the power of the heart’s action, and consequently the pressure exercised upon the walls of the aneurism ; and, 2, after the patient had in this way been reduced, the plasticity of the blood was to be improved by feeding him up in a gradual and careful manner, so that the tendency to the deposit of laminated fibrine might be in- creased. Valsalva endeavoured to carry out the first of these objects by sub- jecting the patient to small and repeated bleedings, and by gradually reducing the quantity of food that was daily taken, until it was lowered to half a pound of pudding in the morning, and a quarter of a pound in the evening. In this way the patient’s strength was reduced until he could scarcely be raised up iu bed without fainting ; the quantity of food was then gradually augmented, so that the plasticity of the blood might be restored. It is seldom that Surgeons carry out Valsalva’s plan of treatment in the precise manner indicated by him; it is generally found to be more convenient to modify it somewhat according to the circumstances of the case, though the principles on which it is conducted are essentially the same. In adopting any constitutional treatment in cases of aneurism, the fii’st and most essential point to be attended to is, to keep the patient perfectly quiet iu bed and free from aU mental, emotional, or conversational excitement. The diet should at the same time be very carefully regulated, being gradually re- duced in quantity, and being made to consist principally of farinaceous food, with but a very small quantity of meat, but little liquid, and a total absence of all stimulants. Perhaps the best regimen is that recommended by Bellingham, consisting of two ounces of bread and butter for breakfast, two ounces of bread and the same quantity of meat for dinner, and two ounces of bread for supper, with about two ounces of milk or water with each meal, or occasionally sipped in small quantities. At the same time pm’gatives should be administered, especially such as give rise to watery stools, and remove obstructions of the portal system ; with this view a scruple of the compound jalap powder may be given twice a week. In some cases, if the heart’s action be particularly strong, recourse may advantageously be had to small bleedings from time to time. Iodide of potassium, in doses varying from five to thirty grains three times a day, has been largely used in cases of intrathoracic and abdominal aneurism,