86o DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. CHAPTEK LXV. DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. Congenital Malformations of the amis and rectum are by no means uii- freqnent, and are of considerable importance. They may exist in various degrees, which may most conveniently be arranged under the following heads. Narrowing and Partial Closure of the Anus.—The canal continues pervious, but not sufficiently so to allow of the bowels being completely emptied, the contraction usually merely admitting a full-sized probe. In some cases the obstruction appears to depend upon constriction of the anal orifice, in others upon an imperfect septum stretching across it. Treatment.—This consists in notching the contracted anus with a probe- pointed bistoury, and then introducing a sponge- or laminaria-tent, so as to dilate it to the proper size, to which it must be kept by the occasional introduction of a bougie. Complete Closure of Anus.—The anus may be completely closed by a membranous septum stretching across it, usually having a raphe along the central line, and a slight depression, through which the dark meconium can be seen, and on which an impulse can be felt. This constitutes perhaps the most common form of malformation that is met with. Treatment.—In this variety an incision must be -made through the septum along the middle line, and across on each side, when the meconium will freely escape. The four angular flaps that are left must now be removed, and the aperture kept open by the introduction of a well-oiled plug. Occlusion of B.ectum above the Anus by a Membranous Septum.— The anus may remain open ; but, at a distance of about half an inch or an inch from its apei'ture, the rectum will be found occluded by a perfect membranous septum stretching across it. This is a rare and somewhat puzzling kind of malformation, as in it the infant will be found to labour under intestinal obstruction, and yet, on examination, the anal orifice will be found perfectly formed, and thus the Surgeon may be misled as to the seat of the obstacle. He will, however, detect it by introducing a probe or the end of his little finger into the anus. It can readily be brought into view by inserting the nose speculum (Fig. G5G), and throwing light up the bowel by means of a laryngeal mirror. Treatment.—The operation, of which the following are the details, will be found to be successful. 1. The child is put in the lithotomy position. 2. A trochar-cannula is then passed doAvn to and pressed against the septum. 3. Ihen the trochar is passed doAvii the cannula and through the septum. 4. Ihe trochar is withdrawn, and the cannula left in. 5. A probe is pas.sed through the