352 DISEASES OF JOINTS. ing cases of diseased joint, that more or less complete ankylosis is taking place at one part of the articulation, whilst caries, or necrosis of the bones, is goin^^ on at others. It is usually easy to make the Diagnosis between fibrous and osseous ankylosis ; the joint being movable, though perhaps only to a very slight degree, in the false, whilst it is rigidly and immovably fixed in the true form of the disease. Cases not unlrec|uently occur, hoivever, in which the rigidity of the structures, muscular and capsular, outside the joint, is so great in the fibrous, and the mobility of the neighbouring bones and joints so free in the osseous, that it becomes very difficult to decide to ivhat degree the joint is stiffened. Here the diagnosis may be made by putting the patient under aiiEBsthetics ; when, if the ankylosis be fibrous, the joint will be found to yield. In fibrous ankylosis any attempt to move the joint forcibly is usually accom- panied by much pain, with involuntary contraction of the muscles connected with the joint, whilst in osseous ankylosis such attempts, unless very forcible, are painless. Treatment.—The treatment of ankylosis is, in the first instance, of a pre- cautionary nature ; that is to say, when the Surgeon finds that the establish- ment of ankylosis is, as it M'ere, the Fig. 532.—Os.seous Ankylosis of Hip. natural means of cure adopted by Nature in a deeply diseased joint, his efforts should be directed to taking care that the joint become fixed in such a position as will leave the most useful limb to the patient. Thus, if it be the hip or knee, the ankylosed joint should be in the straight position ; if it be the elbow, it should be placed at a right angle, and the hand in the mid state be- tween pronation and supination. T^Tien once ankylosis has occuiTed, the treatment to be adopted will depend partly on the degree of stiffness, whether it be fibrous or osseous ; and partly on the object to be attained, whether this be merely the restoration of mobility in a part ankylosed in a good position, or the remedying of the deformity occasioned by faulty ankylosis. 1. In attempting to restore the mobility of a joint ankylosed in a good position, as of a straight but stiff knee, the Surgeon may usually succeed if the ankylosis be only fibrous, (when some degree of movement will always be perceptible in the part,) by the employment of passive motion, frictions, and douches, more particularly with warm salt water or the mineral sulphimous springs. In the more obstinate cases, and where the immobility appears to depend, in some degree at least, on fibrous bands stretching across the joint, an attempt might be made to rupture these subcutaneously. Sayre has established an important point in the distinguishing of those cases in which it is necessary to cut a contracted tendon or fascia, and those in which it will yield by stretching without division. It is this ; if, when the part is stretched to the utmost point and firm pressure is made on it with the finger, reflex action be induced, then it must be cut. If no reflex contraction ensue, then stretching is sufficient.