DISEASE OF ATLO-AXOID, AND OCGIPITO-ATLOID JOINTS. 433 endency to stmmous or tuberculous osteitis, the disease probably comnieiiciiig .uther ill the ligamentous than in the osseous structures. The signs are the usual ones of pain, rigidity, and swelling, diffused and 1-defined. But there is in the cervical region no tendency to angular xxcurvations. This is owing to the shallowness of the bodies of the yertebrm ot admitting that coalescence after their destruction, which is characteristic f the same disease in the dorsal and lumbo-dorsal regions. But the patient unable to support or to turn his head ; he holds it in his hands when in le upright position, and rotates the whole body when he attempts to look lUiid. There will be pain on any attempt at movement, whether rotatory • ahtero-posterior, and on downward pressure on the vertex. Although no .igular curvature can, for the reason just stated, take place in this region, .le spinous processes may become irregular, one or two projecting more than >e others. ’Disease of the Articulations between the Atlas and Axis, and fcstween the Atlas and Occipital Bone, constitutes one of the most rious forms of vertebral caries. In these cases there are pain and swelling, th great difficulty or absolute inability to move the head. Patients affected th this disease present a remarkable as well as a distressing appearance, le sterno-mastoid muscles are remarkably tense and prominent, and the neck ing perfectly rigid, they are unable to turn the head, but when they want to [■)k round have to twist their whole body ; at the same time, the weakness in 3 neck usually compels them to support the head with both hands, putting e under the chin, the other under the occiput, and so holding it. The ’.ease may suddenly terminate fatally by luxation of the atlas forwards, npression of the cord, and asphyxia ; or more slowly by hectic or gradual :erfereuce with the respiratory functions. \P\.eiro-iiliarijn(jeal abscess may form as a consequence either of disease of the ;i lies of the upper cervical vertebrm, or the articulations of the first two. It _nmences with induration and swelling of the areolar tissue at the back of ; pharynx. Subsequently the swelling becomes softer and fluctuation •ceptible. The posterior wall of the pharynx is pushed forwards against ■ posterior nares, giving a peculiar nasal tone to the voice, and if the icess be large it may cause difficulty in breathing and swallowing. The mation of retro-pharyngeal abscess in young people should always lead an examination of the cervical spine. The abscess may burst into the fllnrynx or may extend outwards, and point at the side of the neck, coming r.l-wards under the stemo-mastoid. The Trealment of Disease of the Cervical Spim must be conducted on the iqI le principles as that of angular curvature, by absolute rest and attention to general health. The actual cautery may sometimes be of use before sup- o| 'ation has taken place. AVhen there is much pain it must be applied on h side of the spine at the back of the neck. As great and immediate *r|-iger may result from the sudden displacement of the vertebrm and con- ii| uent compression of the cervical cord, the head requires to be steadied by I»cr apparatus, calculated to support and steady its movements. Sayre’s het with the “jury-mast” (Fig. 57.5) is the most efficient apparatus for 25we below the first two vertelirm. I n disease of the atlas and axis, the •d must be fixed absolutely so that no movement is possible. The patient uld Ik: confined to bed in the recumbent position, with a heavy sand-bao- VOL. II. ® it