SHOCK AFTER ABDOMTXAL OPERATIONS. 755 Vfused, exciting iiifiamniatioii wherever they go, ami thus the whole peri- i torieuin becomes attected. At the same time there is intense poisoning g,I* from the absorption of the chemical products of the process. In fact, in large proportion of cases, this is the immediate cause of death, and may t I Drove fatal before the local signs of peritonitis become very marked. Ihc I '(vmptoms are those already described (^ ol. I., p. J)40) of acute septic ;ooisouing. It does not always happen that diffuse peritonitis occurs when the opening 11 the membrane communicates with a foul Avoimd. Thus congested )inentum in the operation for strangulated hernia was formerly ligatured 8 nth a piece of whipcord, the mass being cut off and the stump and liga- y .lire left Inng in an open wound to which a poultice was applied. Under hese circumstances septic suppuration necessarily occurred, but diffuse peri- t 'Onitis by no means invariably followed. In those cases there was a free xit for the discharge from the wound and the opening into the peritoneal i avity became sealed by firm inflammatory exudation in the first few hours efore decomposition set in in discharges, and thus the danger was averted. 1 ’his is, however, an uncertain barrier, and these exceptional cases do not li-istify us in neglecting any precaution by which the close contact of septic us with the peritoneal cavity can be avoided, ffj The prevention of septic peritonitis and its consequences is carried out on ,vo principles ; first, by the use of antiseptics in such a way as to exclude any ving organisms from the cavity, and secondly, by draining the cavity in all rose cases in which an amount of exudation is expected, beyond that which ill be immediately re-absorbed. Considerable difference of opinion exists as » » the relative value of these methods, some Surgeons maintaining that if dlf. itiseptics are properly used drainage is scarcely ever required ; and others i. lat, if the peritoneal cavity be thoroughly cleansed before closing the wound, id drainage be efficiently employed, antiseptic applications are scarcely ecessary. It is not the place here to discuss this disputed point. The great ajority of Surgeons are agieed upon the value of antiseptics to a certain tint, the use of the carbolic spray being the matter chiefly in dispute. Its ipoiients maintain that it increases the shock by chilling the patient, that aen the peritoneal cavity is widely open there is considerable danger of rbolic acid poisoning, and that with careful attention to other antiseptic tails it may be safely dispensed with. Its advocates maintain that by ;af;f reful management the chilling of the body and the entrance of a dangerous louiit of carbolic acid into the peritoneum are easily avoided, and that by its 3 they are able entirely to dispense with drainage—which, to say the least, is inconvenience—save in a few exceptional cases. The point must still considered an open one, as excellent results have been shown both by those lO use the spray and those who do not. In those cases in which but a small ening is made into the peritoneum, and it is consequently impossible to clean ; cavity before closing the wound, and in which moreover drainage mot be efficiently carried out, as in operations for hernia, there can be no jection to using the spray, especially in hospital practice. Shock is a common cause of death in operations upon the abdominal eera. It probably arises chiefly from the injury done to the large sympa- ;tic plexuses in connection with these parts. The exposure of the risccra t cold and the loss of blood doubtless aggravate it in many cases. 3 c 2 \r'