AXEURTSM. lOO met witli at early periods of life : thus Syme mentions a ease of popliteal aneurism in a boy of seven, Hodg-son had a preparation of a carotid anenrisin in a girl of ten, and Schmidt a case of spontaneous aneurism of the radial artery in an infant eight weeks old. 11, W, Parker, in a most valuable papei- on aneiu’isms in young subjects read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society in 188d, states, that after a careful search in medical literature, he has found only fifteen cases of spontaneous aneurism recorded as occurring under the age of twenty, including a case of his own of inguinal aneurism in a boy aged twelve years and eight months. In eight of the fifteen cases there was disease of the valves of the heart, in five the state of the heart was not recorded, and in two only was it healthy. A forcible, irregular, and occasionally greatly increased action of the heart is the immediate cause of the over-distension and dilatation of the vessels, and thus of the production of aneurism. Hence we find that this disease is especially apt to be induced in those individuals in whom the muscular system is called upon to make sudden, \dolent, and intermittent exertions ; as, for instance, in men who habitually lead somewhat sedentary lives, but occasionally and suddenly change their habits, and indulge in sports, such as hunting, rowing, or a long day’s shooting, which they might without risk have practised in early life, but which cannot be taken up with impunity at an age when the arteries, having become weakened, are unable to bear the same strain upon their coats as heretofore. 1 agree with Porter, in thinking that continuous, steady, laborious employments do not predispose to aneuri.sm, as this disease is seldom met with amongst those of the working class who labour hard and uninterruptedly ; but it occurs rather in those who, after long periods of comparative inaction, are occasionally and suddenly called upon to make A^ery violent muscular efforts, disproportioned to their strength, or, at all events, to their preAuous habits. It is in this way that soldiers, sailors, and members of the wealthier classes in society, are rendered peculiarly liable to aneurism. As violent muscular strain and exertion predispose to this disease, AA^e should necessarily expect to meet with it more frequently among men than in women; and accordingly. Crisp finds that, of 551 cases of aneurism of all kinds, more than seA^en-eighths occun’ed in men. It is important, however, to obsei’A^e that different kinds of aneurism occur Avith varying degrees of fr-e- quency in the sexes : thus, this affection is met with in the carotid artery about as often in Avomen as in men, whilst the other external aneurisms occur in the proportion of thirteen cases in males to every one among females. It is remarkable, however, that in the dissecting aneurism the proportions are reversed ; for eA^ery one case in men, two occur in women. Climate exercises an important influence on the occurrence of aneurism, Avhich is far more frequent in cold than in hot countries. It is not, however, the geogi’aphical position or the meteorological state of a country that exercises any direct influence over the occurrence of this disease. It is in reality the habits of the people that dispose to it, and that regulate its preA’alence; and it is in the more energetic nature and the more active physical habits of the northern nations that we must look for an explanation of its greater prcA'alence amongst them, than in the more indolent inhabitants of the South. If Ave may judge of the preA^alence of aneurism in a country by the number of published reports of cases, I should say that it is of more common occurrence in Great Britain and Ireland than elsewhere ; indeed, Roux states that it is less frequent