EXCISION OF MORE THAN ONE TARSAL BONE. 409 (|jt, implicating a great extent of the foot when diseased. The extent of this implication is such, that excision of the primarily diseased hone would probably seldom be attended by much benefit, and Chopart’s amputation or disarticula- tion at the ankle-joint becomes necessary. Next to disease of the astragalus. ^ ii I look upon strumous inflammation and caries of the scaphoid as most destructive to the integrity of the foot. When the Cuneiform Bones are the seat of caries, it will generally be fe found that the middle cuneiform is the bone primarily affected. Thence the ||..lisease extends to the lateral ones, or to the bases of the second and third uetatarsal bones (Fig. 5G3). In such cases the anterior tarsal synovial II membrane usually becomes extensively implicated, and Chopart’s amputation ll'.will be required. But if the disease continue to be limited to the middle M mneiform and the contiguous metatarsal bones, I and the patient’s general health be good, removal ?| jf the aftected osseous structures by the gouge, Awith extraction of the carious cuneiform, may be attended by successful results. Excision of more than one of the Tarsal Bones is sometimes required in chronic disease, md may leave an excellent and useful limb. No brmal rules for the operation can be laid down ; :he course of proceeding must depend on the nature )f the case and the judgment of the Surgeon. In II lad who was many years since under my care yith very extensive and chronic disease of these )arts, I removed the lower three inches of the ibula, and gouged away considerable portions of he end of the tibia and of the astragalus, calca- a^ ieum, and cuboid—removing a whole handful of •ii i.^rious bone ; yet a perfect cure resulted, the « »atient recovering with a strong and useful foot. \ ’fhe os calcis and astragalus have been both suc- eessfully removed by T. Wakley in 1848, and by Watson of Edinburgh ; r.nd the os calcis, almost the whole astragalus, and a part of the scaphoid, A yj Nicholls of Chelmsford. Mulvany, in a case of disease of the tarsus n I onsequent on compound dislocation, removed the greater part of the ii caphoid, half the os calcis, all the astragalus, and the lower end of the ^ ibia. Fa}Ter removed the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, the os n ialcis, astragalus, and scaphoid for disease, in a boy 9 years old ; and 41' jehmann of Polzin, in a case of caries in a man aged 40, removed by 91^ ■ ubperiosteal excision the entire os calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid ^ x^mes, the foot having a perfectly normal appearance three months after the peration, and the patient being able to walk well, without a stick. t In infants and very young children, disease of the tarsal articulations and 1 ven bones may often be recovered from, without the necessity of having ■0 course to operation, by attention to the child’s general health, and by niviim he part rest. » j b & The MaUeoli alone seldom require resection. Should either of them do so, ne operation may readily enough be accomplished, in the outer malleolus, by •ncUng the bone with cutting pliers ; but in the inner malleolus, more care Fig. 563.—Disease of Cuneifomi Bones. P 4 i