.S'YMPTOMS OF STRAFGULATED HERMA. 777 h i . I ' if I' I'll jt ■^iif . I >i i ;< ■ I i:, i'. ft; f i )o.sed to bo iui inverted peristaltic action of the intestines. liriiiton, however, >pposed this time-honoured view, maintainino’ that tlie peristaltic action con- ;innes direct and causes a perijdieral downward cnrrent as far as the obstruc- ion, from wliich point a central upward cnrrent returns the contents of the ntestine towards the stomach. The quantity l)rought up is often very large n amount, and consists not only of the normal contents of the intestine, but >f an abundant secretion from the congested and irritated mucous membrane dx)ve the obstruction. It is greatly increased in quantity should the patient lave taken a purgative. In cases of prolonged obstruction it is sometimes nixed with black shreds of altered blood, indicating intense congestion of the uucous membrane. The vomiting is attended by colicky and dragging pains bout the navel. These symptoms are more severe in their character when the trangulation is acute, than when it is passive. They occur equally in the ncomplete and the complete forms of the disease; indeed, it not unfrequently lappens that the hernial tumour may be so small as to have escaped observation, he occurrence of the above-mentioned symptoms being the first indication of he probable nature of the mischief. Hence, it is well always to examine for .leraia when called to a patient suddenly seized with constipation, vomiting, nd colicky pains, even if told that no tumour exists. After the strangulation has existed for some time the abdomen becomes distended and tympanitic with much pain and distress. The pulse becomes mall and rapid, and perhaps intermittent; the tongue is dry and speedily lecomes brown; the countenance is pale, anxious and dragged. The xtremities become cold, congested and clammy, and the temperature falls )clow normal. "When gangrene of the rupture takes place, hiccup usually :omes on, with sudden cessation of pain in the tumour, and intermittent )ulse, cold sweats, pallor, anxiety, rajiid sinking of the vital powers, usually pith slight delirium ; and death speedily occurs. Modifications of Symptoms.—The symiDtoms just described are those vhich are usually met with in strangulated hernia. They may, however, be Qodified iu some important respects. 1. There may be little or no tension in a strangulated hernia, the tumour ••ontinning soft and lax ; this is especially the case when the hernia contains •mentum, and in congenital hernim when strangulated. It may occur also in he case of double hernim on the same side, in consequence of the outei’ ac being empty, or merely filled with serum, and the posterior one being u'otruded against this and strangulated, but its tension being masked by he lax state of the outer one. 2. Vomiting sometimes does not take place from first to last, there being at nost a little retching ; at other times the patient vomits once or twice, and hen there is no recurrence of this symptom so long as he remains quiet, and :eeps the stomach empty ; but, on moving or taking nourishment of any kind, ven fluids, it comes on again, and thus the Surgeon may elicit this symptom, hoiild it be necessary in a diagnostic jioint of view. 3. Extensive jieritonitis, with copious effusion of a puriform liquid, may •cenr without any pain, and with but little tenderness and no elevation of emperature ; the anxiety of countenance and sharpness of pulse being the only ymptoms that lead to a suspicion of its existence. ^ I. Heath may insult from exhaustion consequent on vomiting, without any ign of gangrene in the constricted portion of intestine.