TUBERCULAR ULCER—GUMMA OF TONGUE. 633 tongue usually opposite the molar teeth, most commonly dependent on irrita- tion of sharp projecting stumps. These ulcers cause considerable pain in eating and speaking ; they are red on the surftice, with slightly raised but not everted edges, and the base is free from induration. They are thus easily distinguished from epithelioma. They readily heal if the offending tooth is filed, stopped, or removed. Tubercular Ulcer of the Tongue.—Tubercular ulceration of the tongue was first noticed by Portal, and has been since accurately described by Raynaud and ^^edopil and others. It is not common, but occurs with suffi- cient frequency to justify a description here. It commences as a minute white spot, over which the mucous membrane gives way and a small quantity of puriform matter escapes, leaving an excavation which gradually extends. Similar spots appear round about, and the sores thus formed may coalesce, forming a larger irregular ulcer with a yellowish, uneven surface, and slightly indurated base. They occur usually at the anterior part of the tongue at the edges or on the under surface, very rarely on the dorsum. It is extremely painful. These ulcers commonly appear in advanced pulmonary phthisis, but may occur before the lung-symptoms become marked. Nedopil has microscopically demonstrated the presence of tubercle in these sores. In a case under the care of Godlee, the ti\bercle-bacillus was detected in the base of the ulcer. In another, recorded by Boyd, it was not found. The treatment consists in the application of morphia and glycerine to relieve the pain. If the patient is in a state to stand an operation the sore may be scraped with a sharp spoon and di-essed with iodoform, or the whole sore may be dissected out. Some efficient treatment may become necessary to relieve the pain, which may be so great as to almost prevent the patient feeding. Syphilitic Affectioxs of the Tongue.—The following are the chief syphilitic affections met with in the tongue : iirimary sores (Vol. I., p. 1088), these are very rare and present nothing peculiar ; in the early secondary stage papules are not uncommon ; later on small superficial ulcers may occur ; and later still fissures with thickened epithelium around them may be met with ; mucous tubercles are more rare. In the tertiary stage the patient may suffer from fissures and superficial ulcers similar to those already mentioned, from chronic superficial glossitis with leucoplakia, from diffuse induration of the organ, and from gummata. These have aheady been described in the chapter on Syphilis (Vol. I., p. 1111), and the gminmata alone need be further referred to here. Syphilitic Gummata are not uncommon in the tongue. A gumma forms an irregular indurated mass imperfectly circumscribed, and of rounded shape situated deeply in the substance of the organ. It may occur at any part of the tongue, but it is perhaps most frequently situated near the dorsum, some- times in the middle line, a situation in which epithelioma is very rarely found. It commences distinctly beneath the surface, the mucous membrane covering it being at first unaltered. As it approaches the surface the mucous membrane liecomes adherent to it, and dusky red in colour. Under proper treatment the growth may disappear, but frequently it softens ; the mucous membrane over it then gives way and a ragged cavity is exposed, in which the lemains of the gumma are seen as an adherent slough, resembling wet wash-leather in appearance. If the gumma is watched from the beginning, and presents the tyj)ieal course and appearances above described, there can be little difficulty in