898 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. Dcmgers attending Operations for Piles.—The opercition for the removal of piles may he attended by three sources of danger. After excision, and even the application of the ligature or of nitric acid, erysijielas may develop. Tf the objectionable practice of transfixing the pile by tlie needle be followed, and it be tied in two separate parts, a hajmorrhoidal vein may thus be opened, and its sides held apart by the action of the ligatures, and' thus a tendency to direct pyaemic infection be induced; and lastly, I have seen a kind of erysii)e- latous colitis follow the operation, leading to profuse muco-purulent discharge and high fever. I have also in one case seen pelvic cellulitis set up. But all these various secondary affections—erysipelas, pyaemia, colitis, and cellulitis- are happily of rare occurrence, A permanently moist condition of the skin around the anus is notun- frequent, as the result of portal congestion or a hEemorrhoidal tendency. It is best removed by the habitual use of aperient salines, or of aperient mineral waters, as those of Plilhia or Friedrichshall. Pruritus Ani is often an extremely troublesome affection, the itching and general irritation about the anus being almost unbearable. In some cases it is due to the presence of external piles or worms. In others it results from the irritation of the skin from the mucous discharge just mentioned. In others again it is due to eczema. Excess in alcoholic stimulants, habitual constipation, and other conditions may give rise to it ; but frequently the most careful investigation fails to detect any cause. The Treatment must have reference to the cause if one can be found. If there be an external pile, the removal of it ; if worms, their expulsion will probably cure the condition. If it is due to eczema, boracic acid ointment with a drachm of extract of belladonna added to each ounce will frequently bring about a speedy cure. If there is a mucous discharge the frequent application of boracic acid lotion may give relief. In some cases it seems dependent on gout, and the treatment for that disease removes the pruritus. In other cases arsenii preparations will be fomid useful, together with the local application 0: chlorinated lotions or those containing hydrocyanic acid. Sometimes ta applied by means of a piece of oakum gives complete relief, but in man; cases nothing succeeds. PBOLAPSUS ANI. Prolapsus Ani consists in a protrusion of the mucous membrane of th| rectum through the anal orifice ; the areolar tissue that lies underneath i| being also, in the majority of instances, much thickened and elongated, the ordinary prolapsus, the muscular structures of the gut are not protrudedl^;, yet occasionally the muscular coat descends with the mucous membrane, invagination of the bowel taking place, which constitutes a far more serioM condition. The former condition alone is correctly termed prolapsus ani, tip., latter is more correctly spoken of as prolapsus or procidentia recti. Prolaps ^ recti is rarely met with in adults, and is in them never extensive ; in childr p, it is the common condition, true prolapsus ani being very rare. The prolaps ■ of children is, therefore, better considered separately from that of adults. Causes of Prolapsus Ani.—In weakly persons generally there is a uatu. tendency to prolapsus ; the slight protrusion of the mucous membrane whi takes place during defmcation being increased by finy constitutional conditi* that gives rise to atony of the muscular system, especially if irritation of t t