H 652 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. secretion of the snbmaxillary gland. It nltiinately reached the size of a plover’s egg. That this tumour Avas formed hy an accumulation of the secretion of the snbmaxillary gland, there can be no doubt ; but it is quite possible that the collection formed in the sulmiucous tissue, and that it Avas not enclosed in an actual dilatation of the Whartonian duct. The Treatment of this form of ranula consists either in passing a seton through its Avails, so that contraction may take place on this (Fig, 737) ; or else in the excision of a large portion of the anterior Avail of the cyst, the remainder contracting, until it at last becomes obliterated, 2, The Congenital Dermoid Cyst.—This rare form of cyst is met Avith in the middle line. It most commonly forms a SAvelling, projecting into the mouth beneath the tongue, and also appearing on the neck. In a case of this kind under my care, the contents closely resembled cream-cheese in appear- ance, and Avere composed of epithelial scales and fatty matter (see also Vol. L, p. 974). These cysts may be dissected out from the mouth or by an external incision in the middle line betAveen the chin and the hyoid bone. The opera- tion is troublesome and may be accompanied by free bleeding. 3. Bursal Cyst.—This is believed to arise from enlargement of the bursa above the hyoid bone betAveen the genio-hyoidei and genio-hyo-glossi. It projects usually more distinctly in the neck than into the mouth, and thus forms a large tumour, soft or elastic, and semi-fluctuating, occupying, perhaps, all the space betAveen the symphysis and the hyoid bone. It may attain the size of an orange. The tumour is best treated by making a free incision into it, from the mouth if possible, and Aviping out the cavity Avith chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5j- of Avater), after which a drainage-tube may be inserted. If the tumour is more superficial externally the same treatment may be carried out from the outside. It is not possible in most cases to dissect the cyst out, as its wall is thin and its connections deep and important. Salivaey Calculi are occasionally met Avith in connection with the sub- lingual, submaxillary, and parotid glands. They are most common in the sublingual gland, and will then be found to be situated in the Whartonian duct. From this situation I have two or three times removed them. Gross mentions a case of calculus in the duct of the submaxillaiy gland. Wherever occmTing, they obstruct the duct and produce retention of saliva in it. Hence, when the salivary glands become actively secreting, as at mealtimes, the calculus, by preventing the escape of the salivary fluid, causes dis- tension of the gland, with pain and tenderness, rendering mastication difiicult. The Treatment is simple. It consists in dividing the mucous membrane over the calculus and then extracting it with forceps. The largest Avhich I have removed was of the size of a small damson-stone ; it Avas loose in Wharton’s duct. DISEASES OP THE PALATE, UVULA, AND TONSILS. Hard Palate.—The hard palate is liable to necrosis, usually the result of syphilis or scrofula, but occasionally arising from a subperiosteal abscess, starting from a diseased tooth. These conditions liaA'e already been sufficiently described in the chapter on Diseases of the JaAVS, Epithelioma is occasionally met Avith affecting the hard palate, but it is far from common. Encliondroma, III II! Ill I i Y < 'i i I li H ! i t