HYPEUTROPHY—EPITHELIOMA OF SCROTUM. IH5 ‘ •'>. The application of a screw-compressor to the root of the tuinonr. The I Mrst and either of the other methods may lie conjoined. [ Tlie use of the compressor is especially advocated by Dr. Turner, a medical missionary at Samoa, who has had vast experience in this operation, having removed no fewer than 138 of these tumours. The clamp used by Dr. Turner consists of two parallel bars of sufficient length, united by two long upright screws worked by nuts. After the turaoiu’ has been raised and emptied of its blood, the compressor is applied to the neck and screwed down tight when the operation is proceeded with. The directions given by Dr. Turner for the safe performance of the operation are as follows :—The patient having been anassthetized, the clamp applied, and the tumom- emptied of its blood by pressure, the clamp must be screwed home. The tumoiu*, if small, may then be raised by the hands ; if large, two large hooks should be passed deeply into the leathery skin at the bottom, and being- attached to a block and tackle fixed to the ceiling, the whole mass must be raised so that its posterior part is brought into view. A couple of skin- ttaps about 1^ inch long are then made here at its neck. The tiunour is then lowered and allowed to fall forward. Two or three skin-flaps are now to be made from the front and sides of the tumour, the front flap being intended to cover in the penis when dissected out ; one should be of sufficient size for this purpose, 'fhe lateral flaps are intended to cover in the testes. The penis must next be sought for. In small tumours -where it lies superficially, it is easily found. In larger ones where deeply buried, it is best reached by slitting up the aperture through which the urine escapes, going in search of the glans penis, and then dissecting out the organ, which shoidd be held up against the abdomen. The testes are now to be sought for by cutting diagonally, and with finger and knife they must be cleared and the cords followed up. By a few strokes of the knife this mass is now removed. A large number of vessels—from 30 to 10—may require ligature in the stumj); they are tied as the clamp is gradually loosened. The skin-flaps are then brought together over the penis and testis, and the wound treated on ordinary principles. Some Surgeons object to the formation of skin-flaps with the view of covering in the penis and testis, as tending to favour recurrence of the disease. But as Dr. Turner very truly remarks, the skin On the neck of the tumour is generally healthy, being merely dragged down from the parts above the scrotum. Epithelioma occasionally affects the scrotum; and, as it occurs principally in chiiniicy-sweepei-8, it has been appro]triately enough termed Chimney- Mucepf^r'n Cancer. This affection appears to arise from the irritation of the soot lodging in the folds of the scrotum (Vide Yol. I., p. 1013). It com- monly commences as a tubci-clc or wart, which after a time cracks or ulcerates, presenting the ordinary characters of a caucerous ulceration. It rapidly spreads, involving at last the greater part of the scrotum, and pei’haps invading the testis. After a time, the inguinal and pelvic glands will 1h‘ affected : and the patient, if de])rived of his covering of soot, will be found to he cachectic-looking. The Trmhnrnt consists in excising widely the diseased ])ortiou of the scrotum, pi-(^vidcd the inguinal glands be not involved, or the patient’s consti- tution poisoned. The disease huvs a great tendency to return, and it is seldom that tJic jiatient long escapes with life when once he has been affected by it.