199 LIGATURE OF FIRST PART OF SUBCLAVIAN. clavian artery, behiiul or beyond the scalenus, that vessel has been Ligatured on the Tracheal side of these muscles; on the left side this operation is scarcely j)racticable, on account of the depth at which the artery is situated. It has, however, been perfonned in one case by Dr. J. R. Rodgers of New York ; and it was attempted once by Sir Astley Cooper, who failed to secure the vessel, and is said to have wounded the thoracic duct. In another case McGill exposed the artery, and temporarily compressed it with a pair of forceps. The pleura was wounded in the operation, and the patient died on the sixth day of pleiu'isy. When we consider the anatomical relations of that portion of the right subclavian which intervenes between the brachio-cephalic artery and the tracheal edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, we are at once struck with the great difficulties of this undertaking ; and when we reflect on the position in which the ligature will be placed between the onward current of blood in the brachio-cephalic on the one side, and the regurgitant stream conveyed by the vertebral, the thyroid axis, the internal mammary and superior intercostal, into the subclavian, immediately beyond the seat of deligation on the other side, we can scarcely, in accordance Avith those principles on which the forma- tion of a coagulum within a ligatured vessel takes place, anticipate any but the most disastrous results. Ill reference to the mere difficulties of the operation, Fergusson justly charac- terizes it as the most serious in Sm’gery; the proximity of the common carotid arteiy on one side, the internal jugular vein on the other, the A^ena innominata below, the vagus and numerous small venous trunks in front, the recurrent laryngeal nerve and pleura behind, constitute relations of sufficient importance to justify Fergusson’s opinion. But supposing these difficulties OA^ercome, and the ligature applied, this must be situated, as has just been stated, in such a position, AAitli a strong current of blood flowing upon each side of it, as to render the formation of an internal coagulum impossible, and thus up to the present time secondary haemoiThage has invariably occurred when the ligature separated. Whether the application of an absorbable ligature Avithout division of the coats of the artery Avill be more successful remains to be seen. Besides the danger of secondary hgemorrhage from these causes, there would be the additional risk of the coats of the artery being diseased, as we commonly And them to be in a more or less morbid state in the immediate vicinity of aneurisms ; and, thus being rendered insusceptible of healthy repair, ulcera- tion and sloughing would take place along the track of the ligature, causing the probability of a recurrence of liEemorrhage. Thus, in Colles’s case it Avas seen on exposing the subclavian arteiy, that the anem'ism had extended in such a way towards the carotid, that it Avas doubtful AAdiether any part of the affected vessel continued sound. On exposing fully, it Avas found that only a space of the vessel three lines in length remained free betAveen the sac and the bifurcation of the brachio-cephalic, and it AA'as in this narroAV space that the ligature Avas applied. The subclavian has been ligatured on the tracheal side of the scalenus in fourteen cases, all of Avhich proved fatal : tAvelvc from hcemoiThage, one from inflammation of the pericardium and pleura, and one from pymmia.