DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 36 will doubtless show that other so-called fuiictioual diseases of the iieiTOUs system are in reality dependent on structural lesions. State of the Nerves at the Seat of Injury.—There is one morbid condition that will, I think, invariably be found in tetanus, viz., a marked congestion and inflammation of the nerve connected with, and leading from, the Avound that has occasioned the disease. This morbid state I have never found Avanting. In all cases of fatal tetanus that I have seen in Avhich a careful dissection has been made, the signs of inflammation of a nerve communicating Avith the wound have been found; and the vascularity, Avhich is often A^ery intense, may be traced up the nemnlemma, often to a considerable distance. In a case of tetanus following a Avound of the knee, in a patient who died in University College Hospital, a small branch of the internal cutaneous nerve AA'^as found to have been injured, and Avas inflamed. In another patient who died of tetanus about sixteen days after treading on a rusty nail, a black speck was found on the internal plantar nerve, where it had been wounded by the nail. In a man who died of acute tetanus a Aveek after receiA'ing a lacerated wound of the dorsum of the foot, i| the digital nerves were found to be sloughy, and evidences of inflammatory irritation extended some distance up the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In another case under my care, in which tetanus resulted fi’om a bruise of the back, and terminated in death, the injured nerve (a dorsal branch) was found lying bare and reddened in the wound ; and, on tracing it up to the spinal cord, its sheath was found to be much injured and ecchymosed. In another instance, in Avhich tetanus followed a Avound of the Avrist, the external cutaneous nerve Avas found in a similar inflamed state. The Pathological Conditions found in the Spinal Cord in cases of tetanus have been studied by Rokitansky, Lockhart Clarke, Dickinson, and Allbutt. Rokitansky described them as consisting chiefly of a proliferous development of connective tissue, composed of young cells. Billroth doubts the correctness of this observation ; and many competent observers have failed ; to discover anything more positive than ecchymosed patches and interspaces | in the spinal medulla. Lockhart Clarke has in at least six cases observed j| lesions of structure in the spinal cord, consisting of disintegration and soften- J ing of a portion of the grey substance of the cord, which appeared in certain '| parts to be in a state of solution. The fluid thus formed was in some parts I granular, holding in suspension the fragments and particles of the disintegrated | tissue, but in many places it was perfectly pellucid. He considers this due to I hypersemia of the cord, accompanied by exudation and disintegration. Dickin- I son has described intense hyperasmia with a structureless exudation poured out |l around the vessels in many parts of the grey matter, breaking doAAii the i surrounding tissue. He observed also some liEemorrhages in the white columns. I These observations have been confirmed by Clifibrd AUbutt, but the exact I significance of the changes obsei’A^ed is still uncertain. I The absence of any constant and distinct pathological lesion has led to the ■ hypothesis of tetanus being dependent primarily on blood-poisoning, and not I on a lesion of the nerve-centres. Billroth, who inclines to this idea, admits I that it is a mere hypothesis. This theory of blood-poisoning being the pri- ■ mary cause of tetanus is based on the following line of argument. A chemical I substance, capable of producing convulsive moA’ements when it is absorbed ■ into the blood by its action on the nervous centres—of acting, in fact, like |l