S68 DISEASES OF THE LAIKIE INTESTINE AND ANUS. truly miserable, between the dread of excessive suffering when the bowels act, ; f • It is very insidious in most cases in its early manifestations. A sense of uneasiness, a tendency to diarrhoea, a sliglit discharge of blood or mucus a feeling as if the patient had piles, are usually the only early evidences of the development of this distressing disease. After a time, the rectal pain becomes very severe. There is now a constant feeling of pain and weight in the gut, with a sensation as if the bowels had not been completely relieved, together with the discharge of mucus, blood, or pus, and some flattening of the faeces. On exploring the parts with the finger, the lower ])ortioii of the rectum will usually be found unaltered, whilst the tip of the finger will come into contact with the contracted, hardened, ulcerated, and rugged j mass ; at one part of which an opening will be found leading into J an irregular cavity that passes ujd through the cancerous mass to the healthy gut above. The patient experiences most intense suffering dmlng I; defaecation, in consequence of the passage of faeces over the raw and ulcerated [ surface. This pain is not confined merely to the diseased part, where the sen- sation is of a hot and burning character, but usually radiates round the loins j | and down the thighs, and is so severe that the patient looks forward to each : j action of the bowels with the greatest dread, and restrains it as long as I j possible. The wdiole nervous system at last participates in this continually 11 recurring suffering ; the countenance becomes anxious ; the spirits are de- ^ i Fi S07.—Cancer of Up]ier Part of Rectum. At x perforation leading to fatal Peritonitis took idace, during administration of an Enema. pressed ; sleep and digestion are destroyed. The patient’s condition is indeed on the one hand, and the fear of impending obstruction on the other. In many instances he is worn out by this suffering, occasionally combined with the constitutional cachexy induced by the contamination of the system and the development of secondary visceral growths. Not unfrequently the misery is much increased by the formation of fistulous openings in the neighbour- hood of the bowel, and communications between it and neighbouring parts, such as the vagina, bladder, or urethra, Avith cancerous implication of them. Flatus as well as fieces thus get entrance into the bladder and vagina ; the flatus passing out with a rush, the fmces sometimes obstructing tlie urethra, and often very seriously irritating the bladder, producing stranguiy and great pain. Death may put an end to the patient’s sufferings in several ways : by exhaustion from pain and continuous discharge, together with constitutiona cachexy ; by perforation of tlic cancerous mass, which, ulcerating throiigli at