I EXCISION FOR COMPOUND, COMMINUTED FRACTURE. 2,11 re dependent on the actions of the muscles that arc inserted into the tuher- isities of the humerus, are usually permanently lost; for in all cases of caries if the head of the humerus requiring' excision, the Surgeon will find it neces- ary to saw through the bone below the tuberosities—in its surgical, and not u its anatomical neck. Hence the connection of the supra-spinatus, infra- pinatus, and teres minor, and the subscapularis to the bone will all be ejiiirated. Should the Surgeon succeed however in maintaining the connection f the capsule of the joint and the tendons with the periosteum by adopting the , ub-periosteal method of operating above described, the divided tendons may >rm new attachments to the humerus, and the muscles retain their functions j 1 a greater or less degree. Those muscles which adduct and Avhich give the I utero-posterior movements, viz., the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, the pectoralis ■! lajor, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, will all be preserved in their integrity; ; nd hence it is that the arm, after this excision, is capable of guiding the hand I i so great a variety of useful mider-handed movements. In the case of a 1 lan whose shoulder-joint I removed many years ago, I last saw the patient j bout fifteen years after the operation had been performed, and then found 1 latr the upper end of the humerus had been drawn up underneath and between le acromion and coracoid processes, Avhere a false joint had formed. The arm : -as extremely useful, and all the parts below the elbow were well developed. , 'he upper arm was shortened by two and a half inches. ; E.xcision of the shoulder-joint is on the whole a very successful operation, 3 regards life as well as limb. Hodges has collected 50 cases of excision of le head of the humerus for disease: of these, 8 died and 42 recovered from j le operation. Of these 8 deaths, 3 only occurred before the third month, i id 3 were from phthisis. In 2 only of the cases did the deaths appear to I ave been directly occasioned by the operation. In but 17 of these 50 cases : i as the glenoid cavity interfered with; but it is a remarkable circumstance J i lat in no fewer than 7 out of the 8 fatal cases this cavity was diseased, and ■ squired either gouging, excising, or cauterisation. Thus it would appear that le chance of a fatal termination is greatly increased by the implication of the I enoid cavitv. 1 . 2. Excision for Compound and Comminuted Fracture.—When exci- i on of the shoulder-joint is required for compound and comminuted fr’acture T- om gun-shot injury, the operation is of a less formal character. The bullet- f I lies must be laid fr-eely open in a longitudinal direction, or the deltoid even f; it across at its superior attachment, all loose splinters removed, and the .gged and spiculated ends of bone cut off with pliers or narrow saw ; especial / ire being taken in manipulating towards the inner and under sides of the !; int, in the vicinity of the plexus of nerves and large vessels. Without going > ick to the earlier cases of Percy, Larrey, and other military Surgeons of the ! tter part of the last century, who frequently practised this operation with the ' ippiest results, the more recent experience of the wars in Europe and America • mionstrated its great utility, and that it ought invariably to be preferred to npntution at the shoulder-joint in all cases in which the large blood-vessels id nerv'es are intact. Hodges states that in DO recorded cases from all - lurces there were 25 deaths, or a mortality of 2G per cent. Put iii the ■I rimean war the result was much more satisfactoiy. Thus Paudens relates * t cases occurring in the Crimea, with only 1 death ; and in the Pritish •) -my, of 14 cases, 12 recovered ; whilst of GO amputations at the shoulder- B B 2