SPAjVTOX’S OFEPATIOX fop FADICAL cure. 769 iitiscptie fluid. The sci’ofcuin sliould he either suspended in a turn of the •aiidaue, or kept up by a small cushion or strap of plaster. '^I’he wires should be kept in from fonrtcen to twenty-one days, according to he amount of solid effusion Avhich subsequently occurs. Any pain in the bdomen should be allayed by opiates and fomentations, and by slackening or emoving the bandage after forty-eight hours. Pain sometimes results from icluding the ilio-inguinal nerve, which must not be mistaken for the pain of ■eritonitis. AVood had np to 1872 operated in nearly 200 instances, and estimated his iccessful results in cases of all degrees of severity at about sixty-five per cent, n young pemons the results have been still more favourable, and he now onfines the operation to patients below the age of thirty, unless in special ircumstances. Three deaths have resulted from pyaemia and peritonitis. An ingenious operation, much the same in principle as AA^ood’s, has been itely devised by AA'. Dunnett Spantoii. After invaginating a portion of the , ibcutaneous tissue, of the scrotum and the sac as in AA^ood’s method, instead . f passing wires he inserts an instrument like a cork-screw, the point of which introduced through the skin at the upper limits of the inguinal canal. By •otating the handle the point guided by the finger in the canal, which at the ime time protects the cord, is made to penetrate the same parts as are pierced V the needle in AA'ood’s operation as well as the invaginated subcutaneous .■^ssue, and it is finally made to emerge at the incision in the scrotum. In lis way the parts are thoroughly brought together and held in position. The istruinent is left in for about a week, till some inflammatory swelling is per- ■sptiblo around it. The instrument must be suited to the size of the patient, p to 1882, Spanton had operated on 51 cases without an accident, and with ost satisfactory results. It is especially adapted to young subjects with cent hemife, especially when of the congenital variety, r Since the introduction of the antiseptic method of treating wounds, the old >eration of cutting off the sac has been revived with considerable success. In ')71 Sir Joseph Lister reported two cases in which he had cut down upon a rrnialsac, and closed the abdominal opening with cat-gut sutures. This sthod of operating did not, however, find much favour, as further experience owed that it was uncertain in its results. During the last few years Annan- '.ile, Banks, Czerny, and others, have practised a variety of operations of this pe, of which the following are the chief forms. 1. Closing the inguinal ,ig by sutures Avithout touching the sac ; 2. Ligature of the neck of the c ; o. Suture of the ring with invagination of the sac ; 4. Ligatm-e of the r; with excision of the portion below the ligature ; and 5. Ligature of the ck of the sac, excision of the part below the ligature and suture of the ring, these various operations the last has proved the most successful, and is the e adopted by Annandale, Banks, and Czerny. Banks has further modified i by using strong silver Avire sutures to close the ring, leaving them to heal > 0 the AA'ound ; a mode of operating found free from inconA’enience, and inorc iectual than any other. The operation for inguinal hernia is thus performed, ■le incision should be commenced one inch above the external ring, and '.Tied doAvn to the loAver limit of the sac. Before beginning to clear the sac t it must be thoroughly exposed, as any attempt to pull it ont of its coA^ring-s thout so doing is likely to be folloAvcd by suppuration. In old inguinal hornim nc careful dissection may be required to separate the sac from the tunica A'oe. [r. i? n