923 DIAGNOSIS OF RENAL TUMOURS. i 1 most important symptom is free hmmaturia, and in the absence of this we are never jiistitied in making; a diagnosis of renal cancer. Tlie Diagnosis of Renal Tumours is usually not accompanied by any great ditticulty. In manipulative examination of a kidney, whether healthy or diseased, the patient must be placed on his back, with the knees drawn up and the shouldei’s supported. The Surgeon then places one hand in the flank with the tips of the fingers immediately outside the mass of the erector spinm just below the last rib, and pushes firmly forwards, while with the other hand placed flat upon the abdomen outside the edge of the rectus, he presses backwards. The kidney is thus grasped between the two hands, and in this way a healthy kidney can usually be distinctly felt, and in a diseased organ its size and form can be readily judged of. It is more difficult to estimate the degree of mobility in this way, as the parts to which the ; kidney adheres in this region are themselves movable. A tubercular or •calculous kidney which is really adherent to a mass of indurated fat can often be moved forwards and backwards for some inches. If the tumour be .large the hand must next be passed below its border to ascertain by the i.absence of a pedicle passing into the pelvis that it is not ovarian. When the ttumour is of such size that this cannot be done errors are very likely to occur, iiand numerous cases are on record in which the most accomplished ovariotomists ihave been deceived, the nature of the case being ascertained only after open- iing the abdomen. The anterior border of the tumour must next be examined; •.aU renal timioui*s are rounded in form and lobulation is common. The move- ment during respiration must not be too much relied upon ; renal tumours move less than those of the liver, but are not as a rule fixed. The outline of the tumour must next be ascertained by percussion; it -will be found that all rrenal tumours form an angle with the costal margin, which is less than a right angle. The reverse is the case with splenic tumours and some of those \}A the liver. The flank will be found to be persistently dull in any position in hich the patient may be placed. The most characteristic sign is the presence of the colon crossing the tumour. This may sometimes be recognized by nanipulation, and after watching the case for a few days and examining .■epeatedly so as to hit upon a time when the colon contains flatus, a line of •esonance will often be found passing across the dull mass of the tumour. :'A retroperitoneal sarcoma close to the kidney may not only closely resemble a enal tumour, but may be indistinguishable from it. In these cases the presence of a rapidly-growing soft tumour in the renal region without hmma- uria would lead to a suspicion that it did not implicate the kidney. The presence of a renal tumour having been made out, it remains to deter- nine its nature. When fluctuation is distinctly present it is probably either lydronephrosis, pyonephrosis or a cystic kidney. A very soft sarcoma may, lowever, yield a sense of elasticity or even of fluctuation. The diagnosis is K38t effected by aspiration, during which the diagnosis may be still further 1! leared up by the needle impinging on a calculus. If it be pyonephrosis, the pus has usually a peculiar sickly smell, especially ■ it be tubercular. In calculous pyelitis it is sometimes offensive from de- omposition which has spread up from the bladder. This is far less common :i tubercular pyelitis. All renal abscesses may acquire a ftccal smell when hey approach very near to the colon. The lobulated form and great size of the cystic kidney and the absence of I I 1