OPERATIONS FOR PILES—LIGATURE. 895 Fijc. S14.—Ring Fi>rcei)S. Fi is ready, lie should he laid on the bed 011 his left side, with the nates well ])rojecting ; the Surgeon then seizes the most prominent pile with a ring- forceps (Fig. 814), draws it well forwai’ds, and ties its base as tightly as possible with a thin whipcord ligature. The ring-forceps may be tightened by a clip or by a strong India-rubber ring on the shanks, which closes them if drawn down to the handles. He does the same to one pile after the other, until all that can be mot with have been strangulated in this Avay. In some ctises the pile is so broad at the base, that the ligature will not include it. In such cases some Surgeons employ transfixion ; this may usually be done readily enougli by meims of a najvus-ueedle, or by the instrument repre- sented in the annexed drawing (Fig. 815), Bushe’s Needle, Avhich consists of a steel shank fixed in an ivoiy handle, and having its free end perforated for the reception of a needle- eye near its point. In this instrument not only is the angle formed by the needle and the shank a very convenient one for passing a ligature through a pile inside the auus, but more particularly, as the needle can be detached, it may, as soon as it is carried across the base of the tumour, bo separated and so AvithdraAvn more readily than it otherwise could. Trans- fixion of the pile and its ligature in two halves is, however, a A'ery dangerous procedure, and should noA^er be had recourse to if it can possibly be avoided. The danger of this operation con- ■sists in the possibility of a haemorrhoidal vein being transfixed, and the tAvo- halves then tied separately. In this way the vessel is left open and cannot collapse, and the risk of direct septic absorption becomes very great. Transfixion may usually be avoided when the pile is large and round, by ■snipping through the cutaneous portion by means of curved scissors, thus leaving a deep groove for the reception of the ligature, which then constricts •only the substance and mucous surface of the haemorrhoid. If the pile be longitudinal, it may be deeply notched Avith scissors in a direction upAvards from its lower attachment, at the line of junction between the skin and mucous membrane, and the ligature tied in the groove thus formed. In whatever way the ligatures are applied, care should be taken that they are tied as tightly iis possible, so that the piles may be effectually strangled at once ; as in this Avay they separate much more readily, and Avith far less pain to the patient than if loosely tied. "When all the tumours requiring ligature have been tied, the ends of the threads must be cut off close, and the strangulated mass pushed Imck into the bowel. If there be any external piles, these must hoav be cut ■off; for, unless this be done, they become iiTitated, SAVolleu, and inflamed by the presence of the ligatures, and constitute a source of much distress. A imoq)hia-suppository is administered and the patient must uoav return to bed and should keep the recumbent posture until the ligatures separate, Avhich nsiially happens from the sixth to the eighth day, Avheii an ulcerated surface Avill be left, which, hoAvever, speedily closes and contracts. In some Slo.—Buslie’s Ncedlf lor applj’iug Ligature to- Piles. cases