i SYMPTOMS OF ClfliONlC CYSTITIS. jf etui, and often mixed "witli much })us. The urine, on standing', separates into jf wo parts, the up])cr being clear, but the lower consisting of a thick, \iscid, ^limy or gummy mucus, often semi-opaque and purulent in appearance ; it ticks tenaciously to tlic bottom of the pot, and when poured out liangs from lie edge in long stringy masses. It often contains triple ])liosphate crystals I n large numbei's. Its microscopic appearances are represented in fig. 912. The alkaline condition of the urine in vesical catarrh is due to he formation of ammonium carbonate from decomposition of the urea. The •ause of this ehange is a question of great importance, as the irritation of the iininoniacal urine in the bladder is one of the most important causes of tlie )ersistence of vesical catarrh. It is generally recognized that it takes dace by a process of fermentation, but the exact nature of the ferment has been i matter of dispute. All urine undergoing ammoniacal fermentation is found to lontain microscopic organisms, often of various kinds. The most constant is i small round fungus or micrococcus, but with this, rod-shaped organisms or tacteria showing active movements are almost invariably present. These >rganisms are very generally regarded as the actual ferment, and they are ^supposed to be cm-ried into the bladder in most cases by instruments used in die treatment of the varioigs conditions upon which the cystitis is dependent, irhe evidence in favour of this view cannot be fully discussed here, but it may oe briefly stated that experiments by Lister and others have shown that healthy urine drawn from the bladder Avith proper precautions against the admission •'.(f organisms from the air, into vessels Avhich have previously been heated or ■exposed to the flame of a spirit lamp, shoAvs no tendency to undergo spon- •:aneous decomposition, and may be preserved for months in contact "with iltered air Avithout becoming ammoniacal. It is not uncommon, moreover, m practice, to meet Avith cases in Avhich the patient has been unable to com- ipletely empty his bladder for many months in consequence of prostatic disease, uind yet the urine has remained acid and free from clecomiAOsition throughout; lilt last a catheter is passed, and Avithin three days the urine is decomposing md strongly ammoniacal. These facts seem to suggest strongly that the ferment is carried into the bladder from Avithout. Cases are hoAvever not unfreqiiently met Avith in Avhich 'the urine is foul, and yet no instrument has ever been passed. In these :the explanation suggested is that the mucus secreted as the result of cystitis Miangs in the urethra, Avhich is not Avashed clean at eveiy act of micturition, and constantly forms a channel of communication between the external air and the bladder by means of Avhich decomposition may extend into the bladder, i Urine Avhich is mixed Avith a considerable proportion of alkaline mucus decom- poses far more readily than the healthy secretion. The constitutional symptoms of chronic cystitis are chiefly due to the dis- turbance at night and Avant of rest, unless the urine is allowed to become foul, [f this happen, the ordinary symptoms of chronic septic poisoning usually I manifest themselves, irregular febrile disturliaiicc, loss of appetite, foul tongue, • and progi’es.sive emaciation. Chronic cystitis is not unfreqiiently fatal, death resulting in most cases from septicminia, or from extension of decomposition to the urine in the ureters and pelves of the kidneys Avith sujipuratiA^c nephritis. These conditionii • are accompanied by the symptoms already described. Occasionally, in old patients, the constant disturbance may cause death by exhaustion.