DISEASES OF THE URETJIRA. lOQO sharp-edged, and are then palled “ pack-thread ” or “ l3ridle ” strictures ; cc^n- sisting of bands stretching across the urethra (Fig. i)21). Sometimes tliere are several of these in close proximity to one anotlier, leaving mei-ely nari-ow passages behvecn or under them. These bands opcasionally stretch directly across the canal, but at other times and more commonly they take a somewhat oblique direction (Fig. !)22). ft is not very clear how these bridles or frtena stretching across the urethra are formed. It can scarcely be by inflammatory exudation ; it is more probable that they are occasioned by perforation of an annular narrowing of the mucous membrane by the point of the catheter. These various kinds of organic stricture are hard and elastic ; sometimes, when old, almost cartilaginous in their density, feeling gristly and rough to the instrument that passes over them. The Amount of Constriction varies greatly in organic stricture, from slight narrowing of the channel to almost complete obstruction of it. A question has arisen whether the canal of the urethra is ever rendered com- pletely impermeable by a stricture. In answering this, it is necessary to be agreed upon the meaning of the term “ impermeable.” If by it be meant impenetrable to the passage of a catheter, there can be no doubt that such strictures may occasionally, though very rarely, occur ; the channel being so narrow, oblique, or tortuous, that the instrument cannot be passed through it. Strictures, however, of this description may usually be ultimately made per- meable to instruments by proper and careful treatment. If by “ impermeable” is meant generally impendous to the passage of urine, there can be no doubt that such a condition does not exist. It would clearly be incompatible with life, unless a fistulous opening existed behind the stricture, through which the urine might pass out; and, even with such an aperture existing, I have never heard of or seen a case in which no urine whatever escaped by the meatus, unless, in consequence of injury or disease, a portion of the whole cafibre of the urethra had sloughed away ; and it is clear that, so long as any urine passes out in this way, a stricture cannot be looked upon as truly impermeable. 3. The Urethra behind the Stricture is dilated often, so as to form a considerable pouch, in which in rare cases phosphatic concretions may form. The mucous membrane is more opaque than natural, and its loss of elasticity is indicated by its being thrown into longitudinal folds; it is usually of an ash- grey colour indicating that it has suffered from chronic congestion or inflam- mation. The orifices of the lacunae, and of the small glands opening upon it are dilated often to a considerable size. This is also veiy marked in the floor of the prostatic urethra. These small pits and hollows often cause considerable embaiTassment in treatment, the instrument lodging in them after having safely passed the stricture. The cause of these changes is the extreme tension, this part of the urethra is exposed to during micturition owing to the obstruc- tion in front, and the powerful hypertrophied bladder behind. 4. The Bladder in all well marked cases of stricture shows evidence of chronic cystitis. Its mucous membrane is thickened, rigid, and of an ash- grey colour. If from any cause the condition has been aggraA’ated before death, dark red and j^urple patches will be found upon it. As a rule cavity of the bladder is diminished, and its muscular coat greatly hypertrophied, giving rise to marked fasciculation of its inner surface. In exceptional cases, especially in old men, it may be dilated as well as thickened; sacculi are very common.