BISUASUS OF THE BREAST. 730 a liarcl, leathery character, or feeling brawny and infiltrated; often without discoloration, but presenting a hypertrophied a]jpearance, the ]jores being enlarged, and the interspaces between them increased. In other cases, the infiltrated skin assumes a brownish or purplish coloiii-, and is covered by rough desquamating crusts, so as to resemhle the bark of an old tree. This diseased state of the integuments will extend very widely, without ulceration or further development of the tumour situated in the gland. I have in this way seen the integuments of the whole front of the chest, from tlie clavicles to below the mammae, and from one axilla to the other, infiltrated, hard, and leathery, of a brownish-red colour, forming a stiff cuii-ass, as it were, but with- out ulceration. This condition is very chronic ; and it is remarkable that in it the axillary glands are not infiltrated, or the constitution ren- dered cachectic, at nearly so early a period as when the disease more extensively implicates the mammaiy gland. Another way in which the skin becomes involved is by the forma- tion of a scirrhous tubercle or nodule in it towards the outer or axillary border of the mamma, the gland beneath being implicated to but a limited extent. It is probable that in these cases the disease com- mences in an outlying lobule of the gland situated immediately beneath the skin. Occasionally small isolated tubercles spring up in the skin, around the spot first implicated. They are of a reddish-brown colour, Fig. 775.—Ulcerating Scirrhous Cancer of Breast. slightly clcVated, SmOOtll Oil the surface, and very hard. By the coalescence of these the condition above described of wide-spreading impli- cation of the skin may arise. The Pain is in many cases but trifling in the early stages of the affection; so much so, indeed, that it is the tumour, often accidentally noticed, that firet excites alarm ; as it increases, however, the suffering becomes severe, more particularly at night, is greatly aggravated by handling the diseased mass, and chiefly extends up to the shoulder and down the arm. The pain usually becomes most severe about the time when the skin is first implicated ; but, as the cutaneous infiltration goes on, it gradually lessens, owing probably to the destruction of the cutaneous nerves. Retraction of the Nipple commonly commences about the same time that the skin is implicated. It is most marked in the atrophic fonns of scirrhus. It is due to the shrinking and contraction of the older parts of the growth, which forms so characteristic a feature of scirrhus (Yol. I., p. 10i^4). As this takes place the ducts passing from the affected part of the gland to the nipple become dragged upon. The depression may be at the same time