66o DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AXD THROAT. and the actual condition can be readily ascertained by tlie use of the laryngo- scope ; but the combination of dyspha<^ia with a snflbcative fit, and tliese probably associated with laryng-eal cough, are the chief points to be attended to in the diagnosis. o. Tumours in the Neck outside the (Esophagus.—Enlai'ged glands or a carotid aneurism, developing posteriorly, as lias Ijeen known to occur with the internal carotid artery ; or a tumour connected with the thyroid body, tightly bound down by the sterno-mastoid muscles and cervical fascia, may, by ])ressing on the oesophagus, give rise to dysphagia. In all cases where that symptom is complained of, the neck should be examined carefully for tumours, which will generally be very readily detected, especially where the difficulty has existed for some time, and the person has become much emaciated from deficient nourishment. 4. Aneurism of the Innominate Artery.—When this disease has risen into the root of the neck it is easily recognizable ; but in certain cases it de^'elops first in a direction backwards, and then one of the earlier sjmiptoms is dysphagia. Indeed, the patient may suffer but little from any other s^Tuptom, and may apply to the Surgeon for relief from it alone, quite unconscious of the existence of any serious disease. The diagnosis will be effected by careful attention to the symptoms described at pp. 161—163, vol. II. In such a case, much danger might be incurred by at once putting an instrument into the oesophagus, under the impression that stricture existed ; for the point of the bougie, or whatever instrument might be used, might perforate the sac of the aneurism, and so give rise to instant death. .5. Aneurism of the Aorta, whether of the fusiform or the sacculated variety, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition by pressure on the gullet. In this case, also, there is great danger of the aneurismal sac being pierced by an instrument passed down for the purpose of ascertaining the existence of stricture. The presence of the symj)toms of intratfioi'acic aneurism, described at pp. 153—157, vol. II., will determine the diagnosis. 6. Intrathoracic Tumours, such as enlarged bronchial glands, sarco- matous and other growths, developed from the thoracic spine into the posterior mediastinum, may compress the oesophagus. In such cases the diagnosis is very difficult. It is difficult enough to determine the existence of a tumour, but still more so to distinguish it from an aneurism undergoing consolidation; but duhiess on percussion, and dyspnoea with dysphagia, together with fixed pain in or to one side of the spine, with neuralgia down the arms or up the side of the head, and a varicose condition of the superficial veins of the chest, are the signs on which we place our chief reliance in diagnosing the exist- ence of a tumour. Indeed, in the diagnosis of aneurism of the aorta and of mediastinal tumour, I look upon the combination of dyspnoea with dysphagia, and fixed wearing pain between the shoulders, as of the greatest importance. 7. Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle Backwards. whether merely a simple dislocation, or produced in consequence of excessive curvature of the spine, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition. Of the latter kind there is at least one case on record, which is narrated by Sir Astley Cooper, in which the sternal end of the clavicle by its pressure so obstructed the passage of food, that the patient was brought into a condition of extreme danger. The Surgeon, under whose care the patient was, very skilfully and t