77/A’ DIAUXOSIS OF TRUE SPERMATORRJKEA. 1185 practised in solitude, which dike emasculates the body, enfeebles the mind,, and degrades the moral nature of its perpetrator, or of debility of the genera- tive org-cins induced by gonorrha'a, or of the continued struggle to repress the natural sexual desires by a life of forced or unavoidable continence. In this form of the disease there is a mixture of irritability and of debility. The gene- rative organs are excited by slight emotional causes, or by trivial and ordinary physical stimuli—a thought, a look, a word, the movement of a carriage, the etfort of straining at stool, will excite the secretion of the testes, which the debilitated state of the parts allows to escape with a feeble ejaculatory effort, or in a kind of leakage of a few drops from the urethra. In the slighter cases, and in the eai’lier stages of the malady, these emissions take place but occasionally—three or four times a week, chiefly in the morning, in the mid state between waking and sleeping, and are preceded by an erection. In the more advanced stages, the emissions occur once or oftener in the twenty-four horn’s without an erection ; the semen at last, when discharged, flowing back into the neck of the bladder, escaping with each discharge of the urine, or being squeezed out after deftecation. The patient’s physical and mental state becomes seriously implicated in these more advanced cases of true spenna- ton’hoea. His countenance is pallid, aiisemic, and sallow ; his features are drawn, their expression is listless; his eyes hfeless; his spirits depressed, often to the lowest depths of despondency and despair. Connection is impracticable, as the discharge of semen takes place either before erection occurs, or without its occuiTence. Diagnosis.—The first point in making a diagnosis is to ascertain that there is some real disease, and that the patient is not merely the subject of hypo- chondriasis or sexual melancholia. Various conditions are mistaken for spei-matorrhoca by a nervous patient. The white discharge of jjhosphates occun’irig at the end of micturition (p. 934), when the urine is alkaline in some forms of dyspepsia, is often believed by the patient to be seminal fluid ; and as this condition is frequently accompanied by the languor of dyspepsia, and is common in those- who sit up too late at night and overwork themselves, this hai’mless condition may give rise to the deepest mental depression. Prostatorrhoea (p. lOiyij, Vol. II.) is very apt to be confounded with sperma- toiThcca ; but the diagnosis may always be effected by a microscopical exami- nation of the discharge. An occasional involuntary emission is not spermatorrhoea. It is common to young men of an ardent and excitable temperament, and is often the occasion of much groundless alarm. It occurs at that period of life when the genera- tive power and sexual feeling are at their highest point of development. It is simply the result of a hypersecretion of the testes and overflow of the semen. I’or its repression, moral advice and medicinal agents are equally unneccssarv and unavailing. For it, early and congenial marriage is the only remedy. Unless this be adopted. Nature will assert herself—she is indifferent to social (;onsiderations—she will enforce her rights in spite of all restraint. “Naturam expellas furca ; tamen u.squc reciin-et.” The escape of a small quantity of .seminal fluid from the vcsicuke seminale.s while straining at stool is of common occurrence in young men leading a continent life, and need cause no anxiety, and reipiires no treatment beyond a ]>urge and a cold hip-bath. Frequent nocturnal emissions in many cases arc merely a symptom of