41 LYMPHANGITIS—DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. imfrequently appear, and coalesce until they assume a considerable size, and constitute a distinct variety as it were of eiysipelas. In some cases the glands are affected before any other local signs manifest themselves, owing probably to the deeper seated lymphatics having been first implicated ; or possibly to the direct absorption of and deposit in them of some infective matter that consti- tutes the primary source of the inflammation. Not uncommonly through- out the disease the inflammation continues to be confined principally to this set of vessels, giving rise to great and brawny swelling of the limb, but without much if any superficial redness. The constitutional disturbance, at fii-st of the active inflammatoiy type, may gradually subside into the asthenic form. Results.—The disease usually terminates in resolution at the end of eight or ten days ; not uncommonly it runs on to erysipelas ; and in other cases, again, localized suppuration may take place, sometimes in the form of one large deep-seated abscess in the iliac fossa or in the thigh if the lower extremity, or under the pectorals and in the axilla if the upper extremity be the seat of irritation ; or a chain of abscesses may form along the course of the inflamed lymphatics and in the glands to which they lead. In some instances, after the disappearance of the disease, a state of chronic and rather solid oedema of the part may be left, giving rise indeed to a species of false hypertrophy, and con- stituting a troublesome consequence. More rarely death results, either from general blood-poisoning, or as the effect of exhaustion from prolonged suppu- ration of deep-seated abscesses. The Diagnosis of inflammation of the lymphatics has to be made in its early stages from phlebitis and erysipelas, and of the abscesses in later stages from those of pymmia. From phlebitis it is easily distinguished by the super- ficial redness of lymphangitis, and the absence of the cord-like plugged vein. From erysipelas it is distinguished by the want of a defined margin to the red- ness, and by its extending in the line of the lymphatic vessels only ; but the affection in most cases is closely allied to erysipelas, and in others merges into it, and consequently the distinction is often of little consequence. The acute lymphatic abscess is usually distinguished without difficulty from the pymmic; the Ipnphatic abscess being, if deep, solitary ; if superficial and multiple, confined to the tract of the previously inflamed absorbents ; in either case being always between the starting point of the primary source of irritation, or wound, and the glands ; in the calf, thigh, or iliac fossa, if the primary irrita- tion be in the lower extremity, in the axilla if in the upper. The fever is moreover more continued, and the severe rigors and sweatings of pymmia are wanting. Treatment.—In superficial lymphatic inflammation of the skin and iu- tegnmental structures, the local application of belladonna, as recommended by C. Heath, is the most efficient agent in subduing the local process ; a paste of equal parts of the extract and of glycerine should be thickly smeared over all the inflamed parts, and covered with a thick layer of cotton-wool ; the limb at the same time being kept elevated. As a substitute treatment, though of inferior value, hot poppy-fomentations may be used. If after the subdual of the acute inflammation much chronic induration and oedema occur, bandaerinsr, so as to compress the limb, and methodical friction will be of service. If abscesses form, they should be opened early and treated on ordinary principles.