DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1084 tliat the uterine orifice is free from it, or nearly so ; 'whereas in leucorrlicea the discharge iwocecds in a great measure from the iiiterior of the uterus, the os and cervix of wliich will probably also present signs of diseased action. It ]uust, however, be borne in mind that tlie discharge "in gonorrhoea may occa- sionally be in a great degree uterine ; and that that of leucorrhoea may be an exudation from the mucous membrane of the vagina. In such circuiiLstances, when the disease is chronic, it is almost impossible to arrive at a correct con- clusion as to the nature of the case from simple inspection ; and in these cases of doubt the Surgeon had better give a very guarded opinion, lest he be led into the error of inculpating an innocent woman. The difficulty is increased, and a good deal of obscurity thrown over the case, by the fact that leucorrhoeal discharges will occasionally give rise to urethritis in the male, which closely simulates gonorrhoea. Female Children also are occasionally subject to an acute inflammation of the vagina and nymphm as the result of simple irritation, of constitutional disturbance, or of teething; these cases require to be recognized, as they have frequently been the cause of unfounded accusations. The Treatment of gonorrhoea in the female must vary, according as the disease is acute or chronic. In the acute stage, general and local antiphlogistic means—salines, low diet, rest in bed, and emollient sedative fomentations— must be used. As the disease subsides into a chronic condition, astringent injections must be employed ; a weak solution of acetate of lead, or the liquor aluminis compositus largely diluted with tepid water, being especially useful. In other cases, a weak solution of nitrate of silver may be used with much advantage. These injections should be employed three or four times a day and in large quantity. After they have been tlmown up, a piece of lint well soaked in the lotion should be introduced between the opposed mucous sur- faces, so as to prevent their coming into apposition, the discharge being in a great measure kept up by their friction against one another. In order that the injection may be properly given, the woman should lie flat on her back, and 23ump in the fluid by means of one of Kennedy’s elastic bottles. In the treatment of gonorrhoea in women, sj)ecifics are of no use unless the m’ethra be affected, when copaiba may be given, as in the male. The disease is apt to degenerate into a chronic gleety condition, lea-^ing a thin muco-puriform dis- charge, which will continue to be infectious for a gi-eat length of tune. STRICTUBE OF THE URETHRA. Much discrepancy of opinion for a long time existed as to the structure of the urethra, some Surgeons admitting, others denying its muscularity. The ju’esence of muscular fibres in the urethra had been suspected by many in consequence of the phenomena presented by some forms of stricture being solely explicable in this way, their presence was first actually demonstrated by Kolliker and Hancock, who showed that the tube is surrounded through its entire length with an organic muscular coat. Hancock has demonstrated the course of these fibres. He has pointed out that the fibres of the inner layer of the muscular coat of the bladder pass forwards underneath the mucous membrane of the j)rostatic portion of the urethra, and those from the outer layer of the muscular coat of the bladder outside the jirostate. These two layers join at the membranous jDortion of the urethra, forming tbe muscular covering of this portion of the canal. At the bulb, these two layers divide again ; the inner lying underneath the mucous membrane, se^xarated from it