478 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. the museum of University College. The fluid is sometimes found to contain cholesterine. 4. The Avail of the bursa may gradually become thickened by a growth of dense fibroid tissue, until the tumour becomes perfectly solid, or at most contains but a small cavity Avith a little serous fluid in its centre. The section of a bursa thus solidified presents a laminated or foliated appearance. 5. Occasionally in gout, burste may become the seat of a deposit of urate of soda. This is most commonly met Avdth imthe bursa over the olecranon. The symptoms of the diseases of bursa3 in general Avill be best studied by considering them as they occur in the bursa patellas, AA^hich, from its exposed situation, and its liability to injury, render it more prone to become diseased than any other similar structure in the body. I shall therefore first describe the symptoms and treatment of that bursa, and subsequently briefly allude to the similar morbid conditions in some of those situated in other parts. Diseases op the Buesa Pateelpe.—The ATarious affections to Avhich the bursa is liable, may be divided into two classes : 1. Inflammatory affections ; and 2. Enlargements, of a fluid or of a solid character. 1. Inflammatory Affections.—This bursa is frequently the seat of Simple Inflammation. Undue pressure in kneeling upon a hard, irregular, and cold surface, such as stone, is likely to excite inflammation : hence its frequency in housemaids, whose occupation obliges them to kneel a great deal on floors and stone steps ; and hence, also, the common title of “ housemaid’s knee,” given to this and to many other affections of this bursa. But this disease, although frequent among housemaids, is not limited to them ; for it occurs in females following other occupations, and in men as well as in Avomen. In simple inflammation, hoAvever occasioned, the bursa becomes rather sud- denly swollen, tense, red, and hot, with some fluctuation deeply under the integuments. The swelling, heat, fluctuation, and redness of a dusky colour, all situated in front of the patella, point out the nature of the affection. The Treatment of this inflammation is simple enough. Leeches, followed by evaporating lotions, and keej)ing the patient at rest, are the means to be employed. Under this treatment, the disease will frequently undergo resolu- tion in the course of a few days. It may, however, go on to suppuration, and in rare cases, to disease of the patella itself, or sloughing of the bursa. Siqjpuration of the Bursa occurs in perhaps the majority of cases of acute inflammation. This is a matter of great consequence ; because the accumula- tion of pus, being of large size, and tending to diffuse itself around the knee- joint, is liable to be mistaken for abscess in that articulation. Sometimes it Avill point, and the pus discharge itself externally in the usual manner ; but very generally it gives Avay subcutaneously, invariably to the outer side of the sac, and its contents speedily diffuse themselves Avidely around the joint beneath the fascia lata. The history of the case affords the means of diagnosis. In suppuration of the bursa patellaB, the abscess commences by a superficial swelling and inflam- mation in front of the knee, Avhich, after a time, extends laterally, enveloping the joint, the fluid gravitating on each side, but more especially on the outer one, nearly as far, perhaps, as the ham-strings. There Avill haA'e been none of the signs indicatiA'e of acute arthritis accompanying the formation of this large abscess ; no startings of the limb, no laxity or pain inmoA'ingthe articulation,