ACUTE DIFFUSE INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS. 907 in it. It separates easily, but tears tlie kidney-substance in so doing'. 'Ibe surface of the kidney is coai'se and irregular. The colour ot the surface is mottled, the greater part being usually of a pale yellowish tint intermixed with pui'ple patches. Sometimes the mottling is very fine, almost granular. The venous star's always seen on the surface of the kidney are injected, and show out prominently. On section, the cortex is found to be abnormally soft, and to pi’esent the same mottled colour as the surface. Sometimes the part of the cortex corresponding to one pyramid may present a more uniformly pale appeaiiince than that belonging to another. Small yellowish spots, looking like minute collections of pus, may be present, which are, howe’S'^er, on section found to be solid, though very soft. The pyramids are usually intensely injected, and contrast strongly with the paler cortex. Pale streaks can often be seen running parallel to the straight tubules. These are most frequent in those cases in which the pehns is filled with putrid urine. The pelvis is found in some cases free from any signs of acute inflammation, though more frequently it is much affected and filled with foul urine and mucus. The appearances here described are often conjoined with the signs of pressm’e mentioned above, varying from mere flattening to complete destruction of the pyramids. The microscope shows that this condition is a mere exaggeration of that found as the result of simple pressure. The change is chiefly and primarily interstitial, but the small cell-growth is so abundant as in many parts to press upon and even destroy the tubules, areas being found in which nothing but crowds of small round cells can be seen. These, when large, form the small yellowish spots visible to the naked eye. It requires only an increased intensity of the inflam- mation and a softening of these spots to com^ert them into minute abscesses. As in the form of interstitial nephritis first mentioned, the cell-infiltration is most marked round the ]\Ialpighian bodies. The change is rarely uniform throughout the kidney. It varies in degree usually in every field of the microscope, and parts may be found apparently almost healthy. The epithe- lium thi'oughout the kidney is usually swollen and granular, and readily washes out in preparing the specimen, but it does not choke the tubules as in acute catarrhal nephritis. In very acute cases, smaU round cells, similar to those outside the tubules, are seen in the liunen of the tube surrounded by epithelium. These have probably found their way in from the outside, and, if washed on by the secretion from above, would appear as pus-cells in the urine. The vessels are often seen to be gorged with blood, and occasionally minute hsemorrhages are present. It is not always easy to distinguish this form of disease by the unaided eye, as, from the pallor caused by the pressure on the vessels from the small-cell-infiltration, it closely resembles the fatty kidney or some cases of catan-hal nephritis. The microscope alone can decide the question with certainty. Even in such a kidney the secretion of urine may be mode- rately abundant. In a case at University College Hospital, the patient excreted < over 300 grains of urea on the last day of his life. 3. Acute Interstitial Nephritis ivith Scattered Abscesses.—(Suppuration of the ! kidney—suppurative nephritis: when accompanied by pyelitis—pyelo-nephritis (Rayer) .) This is usually found in conjunction with that form of acute I pyelitis in which the pelvis of the kidney is filled with putrid urine, pus, and 1 mucus, but is by no means constantly so. In one case which was observed at I University College Hospital, both kidneys were equally riddled with abscesses, 1 but in one the pelvis was acutely inflamed and filled with foul urine, while,in