873 ELSTUL.E. RECTO- VESICA L A XD RECTO-]M GIXA L by the dribbliiij)^ of urine gives rise to iiii offensive animoniacal odour about him. If the communication between the rectum and bladder be cancerous, 1 fmcnlent matter and flatus pass throngii the opening, and escape from 1 time to time by the urethra ; peiiiaps even more abundantly than the urine I does iJer aniim. There is this difference then between the traumatic and I cancerous fistuhe, viz., that when traumatic the chief escape is from the I bladder into the rectum ; Avlicn cancerous, of the contents of the rectum into j the bladder. It is remarkable how little irritation is often set up by this j admixture of fieces with urine in the bladder. The fistulous aperture in the 1 rectmn, if traumatic, can readily be detected by passing the finger into the gut, or examining its interior with the speculum ani; when cancerous it is too high up for this. Treatment.—If the fistula be cancerous, nothing can be done in the way of treatment beyond keeping the parts clean, or diverting the fmces by colotomy; , but if it be traumatic in its origin, of small size, and more especially if it be recent, its closure may not unfrequently be accomplished by touching it vnth nitrate of silver, or the thermo-cautery through a speculum ani. If, how- . ever, the fistula be of old standing, and the aperture large, cauterization ; will not succeed ; and the only mode of treatment that can be adopted will be . to introduce a grooved staff into the bladder, and cut through the sphincter • 11 upon this, thus laying the parts into one, and converting the anal into a i i perineal fistula. By draining the bladder, granulations wiU spring up, and deep union be accomplished. In cancerous recto-vesical fistula of a painful { character, colotomy may be had recourse to with every prospect of mitigating : I the patient’s suffermgs (Yol. II. p. 84G), and of thus prolonging life. 1 Entero-Vaginal Fistula.—It has happened that a communication has 1 been set up beeweeu the small intestine and the vagina, an artificial anus in :■ fact forming in this cavity. These cases, however, are very rare, and may 1 indeed be looked upon as incurable. Eoux and Casamayor endeavoured to H ■ establish, by a deep and difficult dissection, a communication between the \ ' small and large intestine ; but the operation, as might have been expected, . proved fatal. X Hr Yh ill E,ecto-Vaginal Pistulae may arise from two causes : 1st, sloughing of the posterior wall of the vagina, in consequence of undue pressure exercised upon it dimiig partiultion ; and 2nd, its perforation by syphilitic ulceration, d hey may be ranged in two classes : those consisting of a button-hole opening (and these are often syphilitic), and those complicated with more or less extensive laceration of the perimeum. The size of these fistulous openings, when uncomplicated Avith rupture of the perinaeum, varies greatly ; in some cases there is merely a small perforation, in othera there may be loss of the lO’cater portion of the posterior Avail of the vagina. Whatever their size, they are necessarily sources of veiy great discomfort and annoyance, both physical and mental, to the patient. The recognition of the disease is of course at oiicc made ; the escape of the fieces and flatus into the vagina being obvious, and digital or ocular examination by means of the duck-bill speculum at once detecting the seat and extent of the aperture. As there is just the possibility of a communication existing betAA'een the A'agina and the small intestine, it may be u.seful to bear in mind that, in this case, the matter that escapes has been found to be yellower and less stercoraceous than when the rectum is opened.