S86 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. ut a later period of life is attributable not only to the pressure of the gravid uterus on the veins, but also, after the cessation of the menses, to the determination that is apt to be set up in certain orgajis of the female economy, and to the retardation of the portal cii'culation by the accumulation of fat and by other causes ; these conditions occur chiefjy in women of a plethoric habit of body. A sedentary life Avith indolent habits constitutes, ])crhaps, the most powerful predisposing cause of the disease ; more especially if habitual high living be conjoined Avith want of proper and sufficient exercise. Indeed, the artificial aud luxurious habits of the more opulent classes, by diminishing tone at the same time that they occasion plethora and a tendency to abdominal engorge- ment, exercise a considerable influence on the occurrence of this disease, Avhich is much more frecpient amongst them than in persons in the humbler Avalks of life. Alcoholic excess is amongst the most common causes of piles owing to the hepatic congestion it commonly gives rise to. If it be carried to the extent of i causing cirrhosis of the liver the condition becomes aggravated. Under these circumstances bleeding piles may seiwe as a sort of safety-valve to the overloaded ; portal circulation, and should on no account be interfered Avith. So important is this that in all cases of piles before undertaking an operation the symptoms . , of cirrhosis—morning vomiting, failure of gppetite, intermittent diarrhoea and : occasional shght jaundice—should be inquired for. There are a number of minor conditions Avhich are commonly looked upon i as predisposing causes of this disease, though it is extremely difficult to : determine the precise share that each has in its production. Amongst these ; may be mentioned intemperance in food ; residence in warm, moist, and ' relaxing climates ; the use of soft and warm beds, or the opposite condition of sitting on a cold stone or damp cushion. OAnr-excitement of the generative ji organs also Avill occasion it. i ‘ Exciting Causes.—Amongst the exciting causes may be mentioned fcraZ b irritation of any kind. Thus, in some people hard riding Avill bring on an j: attack of piles. The hahitKalitse of drastic jmrgatives, move Q&^eciaWy of aloes, .;i I’hubarb, &c., is well knoAvn to occasion the disease; though it must he observed ! that individuals, Avho make habitual use of these remedies, often labour under j. some of those obstructions of the abdominal viscera that have already been :■ noticed as conducing to piles. The existence of other diseases about the rectum ' i; and anus, such as fistula, ulcer, or stricture, by inducing local congestion and \ i irritation, may excite the disease ; so also, uterine affections aud A'ariousrf/se^ws :• of the (jenito~urinary organs may give rise to this affection. The most direct exciting cause of piles is certainly a retardation to the return ; > of tJie portal blood. Any imjDediment to the onward current of the blood ■ -1 through the hgemorrhoidal or mesenteinc veins, the trunk or ramifications of the vena portee, exercises a marked influence on the tendency to cougestion > of the haemorrhoidal plexus. Habitual constipation ; the accumulation of ' hardened fmculent masses in the large intestine ; the want of due secretion : ■ from the mucous surface ; obstruction to the proper action of the liver, and | i consequent congestion of that organ; the pressure of abdominal tumours, or | of the gravid uterus, arc all actiA’c exciting causes, interfering as they do Avith | the proper return of the portal blood. In some cases, even the existence of an t obstacle to the circulation in the systemic A'cins may occasion this disease ; j