COMPARISOJ OF TRACHEOTOMY AND LARYNGOTOMY. 695 i l I I 1 i T 4 tition, and afterwards, by the extension of tliis swellinj*’ and infiltration to the lips of the glottis and the interior of the larynx, causes an impediment to the entrance of air into the bronchi. But, as has been pointed out by Sir Prescott Hewett, this submucous areolar tissue terminates at the true vocal cords, where the mucous membrane becomes directly applied to the subjacent librous structures ; the swelling and consequent mechanical impediment are hence confined to the limits of the th}Toid cartilage, and any opening made below this will clear the lowest limit of the disease, which is always accurately and almost mathematically bounded below by the vocal cords. Hence an aperture in the crico-thyroid membrane is quite as effectual as one in the trachea. 2. Laryngotomy is a far safer operation than tracheotomy. On this point I need scarcely dwell; a glance at the anatomy of the parts concerned will be sufficient to establish it. The crico-thyroid membrane is nearly subcutaneous, and no parts of importance can be wounded in opening it, if we except the small crico-th\Toid artery which crosses it, and which might be cut across, but from which I have never seen any trouble arise. The trachea, on the contrary, is not only deeply seated, but covered by a large plexus of blood- vessels, Avhich, when rendered turgid by the asphyxiated condition that exists when an operation is required, pours out a large quantity of dark blood, and thus seriously embarrasses and delays the Siu’geon at a time when the life of the patient depends on the speedy admission of air to his lungs. 8. Laryngotomy can be much more quickly performed than tracheotomy. This I look upon as an inestimable advantage in many of the cases requiring operation ; a few seconds more or less being sufficient to turn the balance either in favour of life or of death. The rapidity with which lar^mgeal obstruction—partly mechanical and partly from spasm—sets in, is sometimes so gi’eat, more particularly when an acute inflammation supervenes on chronic disease of the laiyux, that life may be extinguished before the Surgeon has time to open the windpipe, if he endeavour to do so by tracheotomy. In extreme cases, as where the lungs have become slowly engorged, the action of the heart is already enfeebled, and a sudden spasm occurring at the glottis, ^nll at once place the patient beyond recovery. But even though life appear for the moment extinct, it is the imperative duty of the Surgeon to open the air-passage as speedily as possible, and to endeavour, by means of artificial respiration, to recall the flickering spark ; and it is impossible to experience a gi’cater satisfaction in the exercise of our profession, or to witness a greater triumph of art, than in’ thus snatching a patient out of the very jaws of death. An objection has been urged to laryngotomy in these cases, that it does not allow the ])atient to wear a tube without much irritation being induced. This, however, I have not found to be the case in my practice. I have had patients who have worn silver tubes in this situation a considerable number of years, in one case as many as twelve, and in whom no special irritation has lx;en occasioned by them. The conditions which necessitate an opening in the windpipe, and the operation adapted to each, have been already given (p. GHO). After-Treatment of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy.—In all cases after the wind])ii)e has been opened, the patient should be ])laced in a well- warmed room, the air of which should be kc])t moist by means of steam. A thin piece of muslin folded two oi’ three tijiies may be laid over the opening