424 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. from extending downwards into the pelvis by the attachment of the ilio-psoas fascia to the brim ; tliere is nothing to limit its extension outwards over the Avhole surface of the iliacus, though the attachment of the fascia to the crest of the ilium prevents its passing beyond that point. Thus we find that a psoas abscess usually extends outwards, forming a large fluctuating swelling filling the iliac fossa. As the accumulation increases it passes beneath Poupart’s ligament most commonly by a somewhat narrow neck situated in the line of the anterior crural nerve. It is thus at this part situated to the outer side of the femoral vessels. Fluctuation can readily be felt between the swelling on the thigh and that in the iliac fossa. There is very distinct impulse com- municated to the part outside the abdomen on coughing, and this, combined with the somewhat sudden appearance of the swelling on the thigh, may make it in some respects resemble a hernia. After reaching the thigh the abscess extends downwards to the outer side of the vessels for a short distance till it meets the profunda, and following that vessel it passes under the femoral artery, which can be felt stretching across it in front. It then continues its course under the adductor longus, and forms a large cavity at the inner side of the thigh, having the gracilis stretched over it internally, the adductor magnus behind it, and the adductor longus in front. Processes frequently ' extend from the main cavity along the branches of the profunda. The most, common of these prolongations is one winding round the neck of the femur with the branches of the internal circumflex, and passing through the interval; between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris, becoming superficial i immediately behind the trochanter major, between it and the tuberosity of t the ischium. The abscess seldom extends beyond the upper part of the thigh,, but it may continue its course downwards, until it reaches the popliteal space, : and may even pass some distance downwards between the deep and superficial [.i muscles of the calf following the main vessels. I have seen an abscess, which took its origin in disease of the dorsal vertebrae, opened by the side of the tendo h Achillis (Fig.92,Yol. I.). A psoas abscess when fully developed usually consists of four parts, a narrow track in the upper part of the psoas muscle, a wide . expansion in the iliac fossa, a second narrow part extending under Poupart’s : ligament and the femoral vessels, and a large cavity on the inner side of the ■ thigh. The difiiculty of properly draining such a cavity by an opening in the i, thigh only is evident. In some cases the abscess may follow both psoas ; muscles, and project in each groin at the same time. As in the dorsal region, the abscess may pass backwards instead of down- wards, and point in the loin, forming a lumbar abscess. More rarely it : may burrow amongst the layers of the abdominal muscles and point in front. ; In disease of the lower lumbar vertebrm and upper part of the sacrum the pus i may get beneath the fascia covering the pyia'formis, and then following the ;j nerves, may point in the buttock beneath the gluteus maximus, or it may extend downwards to the ischio-rectal fossa. In all spinal abscesses small sequestra derived from the diseased vertebrm are not uncommonly found in the pus. In the patient from whom Fig. 570 was taken several fragments of bone thus came away from an abscess that was opened in the fore-part of the thigh. Much curdy matter is usually present, making it impossible in many i cases to empty the sac by aspiration. The true source of origin of these i. abscesses may usually be determined by an examination of the spine, and by ! feeling an impulse on coughing communicated to their extreme points of prC'