TREATMENT OF RODENT ULCER. 11 supersedes the natural textures, and by degenerating and disintegrating, pro- duces a slowly advancing loss of substance. It infects adjoining parts, so that when removed by an incision carried through apparently healthy skin, a recurrence of the disease may follow. On these grounds Moore considered himself justified in classing it with the cancers, and suggested for it the name of Rodent Cancer, in spite of the absence of glandular or constitutioiialinfection. Me have before seen that cancers arising from glandular or spheroidal epithe- lium, scirrhous and encephaloid, show a great tendency to afPect the whole system at an eai*ly period ; cancers arising from squamous epithelium readily affect the nearest lymphatics, but seldom cause secondary tumours in the viscera ; and those fi'om columnar epithelium show even a lower degi’ee of malignancy, often causing death by their local effects, without giving rise to any secondary growths, liodent cancer seems yet a degree lower in the scale of malignancy, infecting merely by continuity of tissue, and never by the lymphatics or blood- vessels. The cancerous nature of the disease is now universally recognized. Many German writers class it with ordinary epithelioma, but considering how markedly it differs clinically, and the doubts as to its anatomical starting point it is better at present to retain the name of Rodent Cancer. Treatment.—In the treatment, constitutional remedies are of no use, and local means alone are to be relied on. They consist : 1, in the application of caustics ; 2, in excision of the part; 3, in a combination of these two methods. 1. The ulcer may be destroyed by the application of the chloride of zinc paste to the whole of its surface. The best mode of applying this is to keep the chloride prepared for use by being mixed with two or three parts of flour. Wlien wanted, a sufficient quantity of this powder should be made into a stiff paste, by the addition of a little water, and then spread over the surface to be attacked by it, in a layer of about the thickness of a wafer ; this should be left on for two or three hours, and then removed, the sore being covered with a piece of water-dressing until the greyish slough that has been produced has separated, when the caustic may be re-applied as often as necessary. Besides the chloride of zinc, various other caustics may be had recourse to, each of which possesses some peculiar advantages. Mtric acid is useful, if the action required is not to be very deep ; for, as it hardens and coagulates the tissues to which it is applied, it does not extend so far as the chloride. The acid nitrate of mercury presents the same advantage as the nitric acid, and other fluid caustics—that it can be applied into the Assures and hollows of the part into which the more solid caustics do not penetrate. The potassa fusa and Vienna paste are useful, so far as their destructive properties are concerned, but are somewhat uncontrollable, and apt to spread. The most convenient , mode of applying them is to cut in a piece of plaster a hole of the exact size and shape of the ulcer, to apply this around its borders, then to cover the sore with a layer of potassa cum calcc, one line in thickness, and over this to lay on another piece of plaster. In this way a considerable amount of caustic action may be induced, which will be limited exactly to the surface to which it has been applied. Of all these escharotics, the preference is to be given to the chloride of zinc; its action is more continuous and more controllable, and it appears to give a healthy stimulus to the subjacent structures. 2. Excision of the whole of the ulcer may often be very advantageously practised, csixicially when it is situated on the cheek, eyelid, eye, or forehead ;