DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 432 i The formation of abscess is best restrained l)y the continuous employment of rest and support. Should abscess unfortunately form, the danger becomes greatly increased. The questions as to when and how tlie abscess should be opened will now have to bo answered. With respect to the first it may be said that the Surgeon need be in no himy, but let the abscess'come well forward at one point, so that the pus may lie beneath the fascia. It must not l>e alloAved to point. The danger of opening these large abscesses is twofold. 1st. It consists in the possibility of putrefirction of the pus left in the cavity, and the consequent development of septic poisoning or pymmia. With the view of avoiding this Surgeons were formerly in the habit of making valvular incisions, and carefully closing them with harelip pins, so as to prevent the entry of air into the sac of the abscess. Now, however, such precautions are no longer necessary, and by opening the abscess with strict antiseptic precautions and the employment of drainage, the danger of septic infection is greatly lessened. 2nd. The more remote danger of abscess consists in the risk of hectic from the long-continued discharge, kept up by incurable bone-disease. In opening these abscesses an incision should first be made just large enough to admit the finger, which should be immediately passed into the cavity, so that it may be explored for sequestra before the pus escapes, while its walls are still tense. In dorsal or lumbar abscesses the finger may possibly be made to reach the diseased spine, and if a sequestrum be felt loose it might be re- moved. A psoas abscess should be opened if possible before it leaves the abdomen, by an incision close above Poupart’s ligament external to the line of the vessels. If it points at the inner side of the thigh an incision may be made in that situation as well, but this alone will never drain the whole cavity thoroughly, owing to the narrowness of the sac of the abscess, where it passes beneath the femoral vessels. It has lately been suggested by F. Treves that more direct drainage may be obtained, the diseased vertebrae examined, and possibly sequestra removed by making a vertical incision in the space between the last rib and the ilium immediately internal to the outer edge of the erector spinae ; this muscle is exposed and drawn towards the middle line, the quadratus lumborum may then be cut through close to transverse processes, the psoas muscle incised, and the vertebrae reached by continuing the operation along the deep aspect of that structure. He recorded three cases in which he had performed the operation with very satisfactory results, in one of which a sequestrum was found loose and removed. In well selected cases it certainly deserves a further trial. After a lumbar or psoas abscess has been opened for some time, and the discharge reduced to a very small amount, the patient may be allowed to move about with a proper plaster support, through wliich an opening may be made opposite the sinus for dressing the wound; or a poroplastic or leather support may be made which can be removed when necessary. Antiseptic dressing must be continued as long as any discharge continues. DISEASE OP THE CEEVICAL SPINE. We have hitherto considered caries as affecting the dorsal and Imnbar spine. But the same disease may be developed, though much less frequently, in the cervical region. The reason of its greater rarity here arises from the compara- tive absence of cancellous structure in the cervical vertebras, and hence the less t r f 1, I 1. n li 111 LI h< ) < 1 I I I' I i t ► I