DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 754 process be of sufficient intensity an abundant coagulable exudation takes place ; the fibrin entangling white corpuscles foians a layer of “lymph” on the inflamed surface, and the serum drains away into the i)eritoneal cavity. The peritoneum, however, from its intimate connection with the- lymphatic system, is possessed of the power of absorption in the highest degree. The serum poured out at the seat of inflammation is therefore absorbed with great rapidity by the healthy part of the membrane, and unless the quantity be very con- siderable the cavity is kept dry. The experiments by which this extraordinary absorbing power of the peritoneum has been demoiistrated have been ah-eady alluded to, Vol. L, p. 855. The coagulable exudation wliich covers the inflamed surface glues it to any contiguous layer of peritoneum, and adhesions are thus formed which subsequently become vascularized and undergo deA'clopment into connective tissue by processes identical to those occurring in the fonnation of fibrous tissue in the union of the wound. It is by this process that adhesions form between inflamed coils of intestine, and that ligatures, sutures, and other simple foreign bodies become buried and encapsuled. It forms an essential part of the miion of all wounds of the peritoneum, and is often the means of saving the patient’s life by preventing j>erforation of the hollow viscera, or the rupture of collections of pus into the cavity of the abdomen. It is the object of the Surgeon to exclude all those sources of irritation which can convert this simple localized inflammation into a diffuse or spreading process. The causes of spreading inflammations, as afready pointed out (Vol. I., p. 174), are the chemical products of processes, analogous to fermentation, taking place in the normal fluids of the body, or in inflammatory exudations or other collections of fluid. Without again entering into the evidence for and against the theory, that these processes are directly dependent upon the presence of microscopic organisms, upon Avhich the antiseptic treatment is founded, we may adopt it as a hypothesis to explain the phenomena of septic peritonitis, and to guide us in the prevention, of this fatal complication. It will be remembered that according to this theory two classes of micro- organisms exist, the pathogenic or specific organisms Avhich can infect and multiply in the living tissues and blood, and the non-pathogenic or septic, wliich grow only in dead matter, and are believed to be the cause of ordinary putrefactive changes. The former we may exclude fr’om consideration here for the sake of simplicity, although it is possible they may take a part in the causation of some cases of diffuse peritonitis. For the development of septic processes m the peritoneum two conditions are necessary ; first, the presence of the putrescible matter, and secondly, the contact of the organisms with it. The putrescible matter is furnished by the liquid part of the inflammatory exudation, or by extravasated blood. The organisms may reach it either from the external wound, carried in by the Smgeon’s hands, the sponges, the ligatures, or by the air ; or in those cases in which the gut is injured, as in strangulated hernia, they may find their war from the interior of the intestine through the diseased coats. If the amount of the inflammatory exudation bo comparatively small it is so rapidly absorbed l)y the healthy part of the peritoneum that no decomposition takes place, the first condition of the process being wanting. If the amount of exudation Ixi ill excess of that which can be at once absorbed, an accumulation takes ])lace, which if the cause of putrefaction have been admitted to it, speedily decomposes. The irritating products of decomposition become widely dif-