DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 42 The constitutional treatment is the same as for erysipelas. No depletion is ever justifiable, and stimulants arc often required in considerable quanti- ties, with abundant liquid food of a nourishing kind. Perchloride of iron ii and quinine are often useful. II VABIX OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELB. Varix of the Lymphatics has been occasionally met with, both in the superficial and deep networks and in the lymphatic trunks. The part most commonly found afiectcd has been the inner side of the thigh ; but the disease has been seen also in the anterior wall of the abdomen, about the ankle and elbow joints, and on the prepuce. In the superficial lymphatics, the varix first appears in the form of small elevations, giving the skin an appearance which has been compared to the rind of an orange ; it subsequently takes the form of little vesicles covered with a thin layer of epidermis. Varix of the larger lym- phatic trunks frequently accompanies the condition just described. The vessels may either be dilated cylindricaUy into round beaded enlargements, often semi- transparent, and but slightly compressible j or ampullae may be formed on them, giving rise to more or less soft swellings, fluctuating under the finger. There is some oedema, attributable either to obstruction of the lymphatics or to the impeded flow of the lymph. In 31 out of 55 recorded cases, a discharge of lymph (Lymphorrlioea) has been observed. This has been seen to occur also without varix, as the result of wound. In the latter case, the flow is continuous; while in the lymphorrhoea which attends varix, it is to some extent intermittent. The identity of the fluid discharged with lymph has been established by chemical and microscopic examination. An excessive discharge of the fluid is liable to produce symptoms of general debility, of the same kind as those induced by hasmorrhage. Tkeatment.—Spontaneous cure of lymphatic varix has been observed in cases where the penis Avas afiected, the disease being the result of the obstruction to the flow of lymph caused by buboes. In other instances, various plans of treatment haA^e been tried, with apparently indifferent result. Caustics have been used by several Surgeons, but, as the disease is often deeply seated as well | as superficial, with but little result. Beau treated three cases successfully by , introducing a seton into the dilated lymphatic vessels, and exciting adhesive { inflammation. B. Bell advises ligature of the lymphatic vessel, from which the j discharge of fluid takes place. Compression by means of a bandage has been recommended by N61aton. ELEPHANTIASIS OF THE LEGS AND SCROTUM. Elephantiasis Arabum, or, as it is often called, the Barbadoes Leg, is an affection that is common in many tropical countries, in the "West Indian Islands and in South America more particularly. It is met Avith, , though comparatively rarely, in Europe. The disease usually affects one of f the lower extremities (seldom both), the scrotum, or the labia, which may become enormously enlarged arid hypertrophied. In the face it is often i met Avith ; in the upper extremities rarely. . | It is not my intention to enter into an account of the history, the symptoms, , or the causes of this remarkable malady. It is sufficient for my piupose here i to say, that it appears to consist in disease prunarily seated in the lymphatics. 1