RED UClHLE UERXIA. ■i)) I 1(^3 .f),(»59, or ()0‘8 per cent., had comiiienced before So, and 3,637, or 39*2 per cent., after that age. The tendency to hernia is often liereditary, and congenital hernia is common in the children of hernial parents. Some races of men are less subject to hernia than others. Thus it is less frequent in the negro than in the white man, except in the ventral foimi. Occupation.—Those occupations in whicli the individual is exposed to violent muscular efibrts, more particularly of an intermitting character, pre- dispose strongly to the occurrence of hernia ; and in these employments the ■tendency to the disease is often greatly increased by the injurious habit of wearing tight girths or belts rouud the Avaist, which, by constricting the ab- • domen, throw the whole pressure of the abdominal contents upon the inguinal regions. Hernia is also common in men such as raihvay-drivers, cavalry 'Soldiers, artillery-men, exposed to much jolting in the upright or nearly upright ■TXAsition. Other Causes.—It is probable also that hernia is predisposed to by the [ height of the seats of water-closets in common use. In the natural position iiassiuned by man in defecation the femoral and inguinal rings and the lower Ipart of the abdomen are supported by the flexed thighs, whereas on the ^ordinary water-closet seat the thighs are not flexed much beyond a right angle, iiand the support is consequently much less perfect. The frequency Avith which ^hernia appears for the first time or becomes strangulated during defecation would lend some support to this vieAA'. Habitual constipation is a predisposing Jt2ause in many cases. Rapid emaciation from any cause is not unfr’equently followed by a hernial protrusion. Conditions presented by Hernia.—The conditions in Avhich a hernia i.nay be found are very various, and entail corresponding differences in the ■esult and treatment of the affection. "W^ien first formed, most herniie may kx; said to be Incomplete, being for a time retained within the orifice of the -.‘anal through AA’hich they eventually protrude. When they have passed alto- :-(ether beyond the abdominal Avails, they are said to be Complete; and this is \ he condition in Avhich they are usually presented to the Surgeon. A hernia : nay also be Reducible, Irreducible, or htramjulaied. REDUCIBLE HERNIA. A hernia is commonly at first Reducible; that is to say, it may readily be nished back into the cavity of the abdomen, protruding again Avhen the patient : lands up, holds his breath, or makes any exertion, and having a distinct and orcible impulse on coughing. Though the hernia contents, in these cases, : re reducible into the abdomen, the sac is not ; it almost immediately con- ■ racts adhesions to the areolar tissue, by Avhich it is firmly fi.xed in its neAv .ituation ; though in some cases, as Ave shall hereafter see, it may be pushed ^ack. The question as to whether a hernia is of recent origin or of old standing •ometimes presents itself in medico-legal iiracticc. In determining this the blowing points deserve attention 1. A recent hernia resulting from injury 1 attended with pain—usually severe—from laceration of the structures of the ■bdominal wall. 2. When oblique, inguinal or femoral, it may be small, but dien direct, inguinal or ventral, it is often large and rounded, the aperture