813 IIERJIA IX THE TUXICsi TAGIXA LIS. Flernia in the tunica vaginalis, though usually called “congenital, is rarely so in reality; the tendency is congenital, but the disease is not. It not unfre- quently happens, it is true, that these herniaj show themselves early in life, in infants a few weeks or months old ; though even at these ages the funicular prolongation of the ])eritonenni maybe so completely occluded, that the hernia which occui’s is of an ordinary oblique character. Not unli’cqncntly, however, the hernia does not take place until a considerably later period of life than this, and may suddenly happen in the adult; thus Velpeau relates instances in which it occurred for the first time between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. I have operated in a case on a man thirty-five years of ago, in whom this kind of hernia occurred for the first time when he was twelve years old; and some years ago ill a case at the Hospital, on a man about fifty, in whom, on the most careful inquiiy, it would appear that the protrusion had not shown itself until he was about thirty years of age. The explanation of these cases is that the funicular portion is only partially closed or contracted, and that, under a sudden effort, the septum is broken through, and thus a knuckle of gut falls into the tunica vaginalis. Signs and Diagnosis.—The signs of hernia in the tunica vaginalis closely re- semble those of the ordinary oblique ; most commonly, however, if scrotal, the tumour is much rounded, and the neck feels narrow and constricted. The testis, also, cannot be felt distinct and separate from the tumour, but is sur- rounded by, and, as it were, buried in the substance of the hernia, through which it may sometimes be felt at the lower and back pait of the scrotum. In an ordinary inguinal hernia, the tenser the sac the more clearly is the testicle seen and felt outside it. In a congenital hernia, if the sac is tense the testicle cannot be felt at all. On inquiry, also, it will usually be found either that the hernia has existed in childhood, or that the testis is still in the canal, or has descended later than usual. A hernia of the tunica vaginalis may be associated with a congenital hydrocele. In these cases, after the fluid has been returned into the peritoneal cavity by directing the patient to lie on his back, and raising the scrotum, the portion of protruded gut may be felt and reeognized by its gurgle and upward slip when reduced. This hernia may be associated with the testis, either undescended or lying at the external abdominal ring. In the first case, the hernia is, of course, incomplete ; in the second, it is scrotal. When incomplete, the diagnosis may be made by feeling a soft swelling Avitli the ordinary heniial signs above the small and hardened testis. When symptoms of strangulated hernia occur in a person in whom the testes have not descended into the scrotum, very gi*eat difficulty may be experienced in effecting an exact diagnosis. In such cases as these, an oblong or rounded tumour, tense and painful, will be found to occupy the inguinal canal, not passing beyond the external ring, with some abdominal tenderness, and possibly nausea and constipation. The question hero arises as to the nature of this tumour. Is it simply an inflamed undescended testis; or is it an undescended testis, inflamed or not, as the case may be, having a knuckle or loop of strangulated intestine lying Ixihind it ? When the tumour consists simply of an inflamed undescended testis, the pJiin will 1)0 of that peculiar character which is indicative of orchitis, and the constitutional symptoms of strangulation, however simulated for a time, will not be pei-sistently prc.sent. The following ca.se is a good illustration of this condition. A man, aged about forty, said to be labouring under stram>-ulated