URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 948 An infinite amount of iii^-ennity has been expended in giving variety to the sliape of tlie knives used for opening the deejjer portions of tlie ni-ethra and neck of the bladder in'lithotomy. Instruments of this kind, straiglit-edged and shouldered, beaked and probe-ended in every possible way, have been devised ; and each has had its special advocate, but has seldom been adopted Fig. S42.—Lithotomy Scalpel. in practice by any except its inventor. All these modifications of the ordinary scalpel are, to say the least, useless ; some, perhaps, actually dangerous. They simply seek to supply by mechanical means that safety in the deeper incisions which may as readily be secured by a broad-bladed, straight-backed scalpel, if properly guided by a hand that is ordinarily skilful. The cutting gorget, formerly much in vogue, is all but universally discarded as a most dangerous tool by the modern lithotomist. The scalpel for the adult may be of the size and the shape represented (Fig. Fig. 843.—Probe-pointed Lithotomy knife. 842) ; for children, it may be made a little smaller. Kprolje-poinled lithotomy knife of the size and shape here represented should also be at hand (Fig. 848). The staff should have a deep groove on its left side, occupying nearly one- third of the instrument ; it should be well curved, of as large a size as thej urethra will admit, and have a roughened handle (Fig. 849). ' The forcepjs must not be too heavy, but should be of a good length in the handles, and have the joint well set back ; the inside of the blades, as recom- mended by Liston, should be lined with linen to prevent the stone from Fig. 844.—Open-bladed Lithotomy-forceps, lined with linen. slipping (Fig. 845). Coxeter has made them with open blades, but lined with linen as heretofore (Fig. 844) ; in this way, as there is less metal, the weight is diminished, and the diameter of the instriunent with a stone in its grasp is materially lessened. The ordinary forceps are straight, but it is ad- vantageous to be provided with some that are curved (Fig. 840). The handles should be made with a loop on one side and a ring on the other ; the ring for the reception of the thumb should be placed somewhat obliquely. The scoops of different sizes, and curved, can most conveniently be used when fixed in roughened handles (Figs. 847 and 848). The tube should be of silver or gum-