INTESTINAL OBSTIi UCTION. The Form of the Abdomen.—WJien tlie obstruction is in the small intestines and acute, the distension is usually most marked in the epigastric, umbilical and hypogastric regions, the flanks being less distended. In obstructions low doAvn in the great gut the distended colon on each side fills out the flanks, giving the abdomen a barinl-shape. In some cases of strangulation by a baud or internal hernia, the abdomen may be irregularly distended, one side or region being more prominent than the rest. Too much importance, must not be attached, however, to the form of the abdomen, as it is often deceptive. In women Avho have borne childi’en, there is always great prominence in the umbilical and hypogastric region, whatever the cause of the distension may be. Coils of intestine visible through the abdominal walls may be observed when the patient is thin, in all forms of obstruction in which there is much disten- sion. The visibility is said to be most marked in obstruction from chronic peritonitis. The distended coils of small intestines can be seen twisting like congor eels, and are often so large that they may be mistaken fof transverse colon or sigmoid flexure, and thus lead to an error in diagnosis. Peristalsis is often visible in the distended coils. This is said to be most marked when the obstruction is in the great intestine. When visible it may be taken as evidence that the distension is not due to paralysis of the gut, or to acute peritonitis ; but beyond this it is not of much value. Percussion.—By percussion we try to ascertain the condition of the colon. In the normal condition the different notes given by the stomach, colon, and small intestine, usually enable us to determine then positions, but in the dis- tended abdomen the evidence thus obtained is often fallacious. The stomach is always concealed by the distended intestines. If the small intestines are much distended their note becomes indistinguishable from that of the colon. Extreme superficial tympanitic resonance, uniform in note and concealing the liver- dulness, with a very pointed abdomen, indicates free gas in the peritoneal cavity either from actual or impending perforation. Hyper-resonance in each flank is usually a sign of a distended colon. Hulness in the flanks disappear- ing on turning the patient on one side is usually evidence of fluid, and may indicate that peritonitis is commencing. In a case in Univetsity College Hospital a few years ago, this sign was, however, found to be dependent on a loaded colon with a long meso-colon, which moved out of the flank when the patient was turned to the opposite side. Manipulation.—By manipulation the degree of tension is estimated. It is of much diagnostic value in tubercular peritonitis, as the pecuhar doughy sensation may serve to show the nature of the disease. In intussusception the tumour already described may be felt, and in malignant disease of the colon the growth may be perceptible as a hard lump. In other cases, disten- sion usually conceals any tumour that may be present. Sometimes a tender spot may be recognized as the point at which pain is chiefly felt, and this may be of value in indicating the seat of obstruction. 8. Examination of Rectum should never be omitted ; by it we ascertain the presence of strictures within reach of the finger, or tumoui’s pressing on tlie rectum, and of faecal accumulations. In intussusception, we may feel the end of the invaginated intestine. Those whose hands are small enough to pass into the rectum, an uncommon condition in men, might possibly detect a malignant structure in the sigmoid flexure.