486 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. i % Compound Ganglion is a chronic elfusion into the sheath of a tendon without any manifest signs of inflammation, though it is usually regarded as a very chronic inflammatory process analogous to chronic synovitis of a joint. It is met with chiefly in the palm of the hand, and the dorsum, sole, or inner side of the foot. It may often attain a very considerable size, and then usually becomes irregular in shape, owing to several tendons being implicated by it. Often, in this form of ganglion, the sheath is thickened as well as dilated ; and the contained fluid is clear and yellowish, though usually thinner than in the simple ganglion. The sheath itself is vascular, and lined by a red, fringed, and velvety membrane : the fluid may then be dark and bloody, and contain masses of bulf-coloured fibrine or a large number of granular bodies, like those met with in certain forms of enlarged bursae. The appearance of a so-called compound ganglion at the wrist may in some cases be the first indication of disease of the bones of the carpus, as the synovial sheath comes in close contact with the bones. In a case lately in University College Hospital, the compound ganglion, which contained melon-seed bodies, was apparently cured by antiseptic drainage. Some months after caries of the carpus manifested itself, necessi- tating excision of the wrist-joint. Treatment.—A ganglion situated in the palm of the hand, and extending under the annular ligament some little distance up the flexor tendons of the forearm, is a very troublesome disease. Syme recommended that the sac should be laid open, and the annular ligament divided. This seems to me an unne- cessarily severe procedure ; and I have in several instances cured the affection by milder means ; in one, by injecting a small quantity of tinctm’e of iodine into the cyst through a puncture in the palm, and in two or three other cases by the use of the seton. The seton is most easily introduced by squeezing the fluid from the palm into the sheaths of the flexor tendons above the wiist, making a puncture into these, and then pushing an eyed probe armed with two or three threads along the tendons under the annular ligament into the centre of the palm, where it is to be drawn out tluough a small incision made down upon it. The seton threads may be soaked in carbolic acid and lotion, and the operation and di’essing conducted on antiseptic principles to avoid excessive suppuration, or an india-rubber drainage tube may be substituted for the silk thread. Compound ganglia in other situations must be treated on similar principles. DISEASES OP MUSCLES. The voluntary muscles are not often the seat of primary disease of any kind. Fatty Degeneration of muscle, as met with in surgical practice, is usually the result of want of use. In such cases, the muscular fibres are merely atrophied, and the fat, which resembles normal adipose tissue, is accumulated betAveen them. Such a condition is recovered from if the cause of the want of use be removed. True fatty degeneration, in Avhich the protoplasm of the muscular fibres undergoes conversion into fat-granules, is not common in the voluntary muscles. Ossification of Muscles, that is to say, gradual atrophy of the muscular fibres with the development of the bone from the con- nective tissue betAveen them, has been met AA'ith in very rare cases in the muscles of the back. Inflammatory Affections are usually sccondar}% the muscle being implicated by extension from surrounding parts. Diffuse inflammation of the voluntary muscles AAuth disseminated abscesses has been observed in