969 ACCIDENTS DURING LATERAL LITHOTOMY. of the first incision be mmle by pushinp; the knife in too deeply, tlie corpiLS • spongiosum und its vessels may be wounded. It may be stated as a general rule, that serious ha3morrhage is usually best avoided by making the incisions low ; and indeed, 1 believe that the great • secret of success in the lateral operation of lithotomy consists in making all ■ the deep incisions as low as practicable ; the knife entering the groove of the staff from below upwards, rafher from above downwards. Venous Hicmorrhaye may oecur from two sources—tlic su])erficial or tb.e prostatic veins. It is very seldom that any trouble arises from superficial veins ; but in one case I have seen \ci-j considerable loss of blood occur from a large vein, running transvei-sely near the upper angle of the wound, lying almost immediately under the skin, which had been incompletely divided. From the prustatic plexus ha3moiThage is most likely to occur in old people, in whom the veins in this situation arc often enlarged—ahnost hcemorrhoidal. 'Whether the venous bleeding take place from a superficial or from a deep ‘Source, it is very apt to find its Avay back into the bladder, to mix with the urine, and thus to escape through the tube rather than from the wound itself ; ■ or the blood may probably coagulate in the interior of the bladder, distending that organ and producing a feeling of dysuria. Should it proceed from a 'Superficial source, it may Idc necessaiw, as was done in the case just alluded to, : to pass a ligjiture under the vessel, and thus arrest it. If it occur fi’om the prostatic veins, the better plan will be to plug the wound. This is done by passing long strips of lint, either diy or soaked in a solution of perchloridc of iron or of alum, along the side of the tube, Avhich must be left in the Avouud and kept peiTious ; or the lithotomy tube may haA^e a “petticoat ” of thick muslin tied around it, into Avhich the slips of lint are stuffed. The adA'antage of this airangcment is, that the Avhole apparatus may very easily be removed : together at the end of forty-eight hours. A far more efficient means of applying pressure is by means of the “Air ' Tampou,” invented by Buckston Browne. It consists of an ordinaiy gum-elastic ! lithotomy-tube, surrounded by an India-rubber bag, Avhich can be distended Avith I p air from a syringe by means of a tube fitted Avith a stop-cock. This is inserted : into the Avound, so that the India-rubber bag fills its Avhole length. On ' distending the bag, finu unifonn pressure of any desired force can be iiapplied. After from tweh'e to tAventy-four hours, a little air can be let out so as to reduce the pressure, and this is repeated at intervals till the tube can be n-emoved. Hasmorrhage from any of the aboA'e-named sources, but more esj^ecially I' from the deep arteries and veins, may take place into the bladder. "When this f»ccurs, the urine that escapes Avill be seen to be deeply mixed Avith blood, and coagula Avill form in the interior of the viscus, which becomes distended and rises above the pubes, with dnlness on percussion in the hypogastric region. The patient Avill become pale, faint, and cold. In such circumstances, the coagula niiist be Avashed out of the bladder Avith cold Avater, the source of haemorrhage as<x*rtained by an examination of the Avoiind, the further flow of l^lood aiTested by plugging or ligature, restoratives administered, the pelvis placed high, and the patient keep cool. Wound of the Bulb is not of very uncommon occurrence in lithotomy ; 'ltd, I believe, is of no conscfjuence beyond furnishing a small additional [uantity of blood. Indeed, the bulb is so situated, in many cases oA-erlapping