SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 252 the artery usually allbrdsbut a slender prospect of success, the collateral vessels heiug so compressed and choked by the lu'cssure of the effused l)lood as not to admit of the circulation being carried on through them ; hence, in many of these cases, the only resource left to the Surgeon is to amputate the limb. Amputation for Diffused Popliteal Aneurism.—The question of Amputation in cases of diffused popliteal aneurism is not very easily submitted to any very positive or definite rules, except where the impending gangrene is so evident as not to admit of doubt. There are, however, certain general con- siderations that may guide the Surgeon in deciding on this important point. 1. In some cases, the sac has either given way to a very limited extent; or i else its walls, having become thin and expanded, are yielding rapidly under the ; pressure of the blood, becoming confused with the surrounding parts. Here ■■ we should ligature the artery without delay : for although it is but seldom that i a limb can be saved when once the blood has become infiltrated into the general \ areolar tissue, yet it is possible that such a fortunate occurrence may happen. j 2. In other instances the aneurism has not from the first been very dis- ^ tinctly circumscribed. It has followed the infliction of some mechanical 1 injury, and in the course of a week or two has acquired a considerable size, , . without definite or distinct limitation, being solid or but little compressible. Such a case as this can scarcely be considered, strictly speaking, a diffused aneurism ; but yet, if by circumscribed we mean that the blood is contained in a cyst with defined walls, it scarcely complies with such a definition, the fluid blood being rather prevented from escaping widely by a temporary barrier of coagula entangled in the loose areolar tissue of the part, and the vessel being extensively ruptured or completely torn across. Here we are certainly justified in having recourse to compression or ligature, with a good prospect of success. 3. When the ham is occupied by a large rapidly increasing tumour, extend- ing perhaps some way down the calf and up the thigh, and encroaching on the knee, the skin covering it being more or less discoloured, there being no pul- sation perceptible in the tibial arteries, and the veins of the limb being full i and even somewhat congested, the foot oedematous and several degrees cooler ; than the opposite limb, the difficulty of coming to a decision is considerable. In such a case as this, I think that the existence or absence of distensile ' pulsation is a circumstance of very great importance, and may serve to guide i the Surgeon. If there be distinct impulse of a distending character, which j can be arrested by compression of the femoral artery, with some diminution of j the size of the tumour, it is evident that blood is being transmitted through 1 the sac, and that this contains some fluid blood. In these circumstances it , will, when the artery is tied, subside to a considerable extent, thus allowing | more space for the conveyance of the collateral circulation; and it would be : but right to give the j^atient the chance of preserving his limb by ligatming the vessel. If, however, the tumour have, from the very first time when it attracted the jDatient’s notice, been more or less solid and incompressible ; and, though it may at an early period have pulsated, if this pulsation have suddenly ceased, the aneurism at the same time having undergone rapid and great increase of bulk with much tension and hh idity of the integuments, oedema > and coldness of the limb, Avith a tendency perhaps to vesication and ulcera- tion of the skin covering the tumour, there is no resource left but amputation. i