BRACHIAL^ ULNAR—RADIAL. 221 ANEUKISM OF THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND. Spontaneous aneurism rarely occnm below the axilla, yet it may occasionally be met with at any part of the upper extremity. Thus Palletta, Flajani, Pelletan, and others, relate cases of spontaneous aneurism at the bend of the arm ; and liiston states that he once tied the brachial arteiy in an old ship- cai-penter, who, whilst at Avork, felt as if something had snapped in his arm. Pilcher has recorded a case of aneurism under the ball of the right thumb, which was produced by repeated though slight blows with the handle of a hammer used by the patient (a Avorking goldsmith) in his trade ; the radial and nlnar arteries Avere tied immediately aboA'e the Avrist, and the disease A\'as thus cured. Aneurism has also been met with in this situation after attempted reduction of a dislocation of the thimib. In the Museum of the College of Sur- geons there is a preparation of a radial artery Avith a small aneurism, about ’ the third of an inch in diameter, formed by the dilatation of all the coats of a nan-OAA' portion of one half the circumference of the A^essel, a little above the origin of the superficialis volm. Spontaneous aneurism in the forearm is of extremely rare occurrence. Todd and Arnott (at University College Hospital) have both successfully tied the brachial for spontaneous aneurism of the forearm —in its upper third. De Morgan records a case of spontaneous aneurism of the nlnar, and Spanton one of the radial artery. In most of the cases in which the brachial artery and its primary branches have been the seat of spontaneous I aneurism, disease of the heart and of the arterial system in other parts has co-existed. IVhile spontaneous aneurisms are rare in these situations, the traumatic forms of the disease are, as has already been stated (Yol. I., pp. 458, 462), r! of more frequent occurrence, and may require ligature of the brachial, or of l! either of the arteries of the forearm. ji Treatment.—In cases of aneurism beloAV the axilla, direct pressure may be II tried with advantage, provided the tumour be of small size and unattended by I inflammation of the superjacent integuments. Compression of the trunk of I the arter}' above the tumour is rarely applicable, on account of the pain that I is induced by the pressure upon the neighbouring nerves, Avhich cannot I be isolated from the artery. Besides this, the brachial artery is so mobile, ^ and the humenis so small and round a bone, that the vessel cannot be steadily compressed against it for any length of time, but Avill roll away from under the pressure, even if the patient could bear the pain of it. The application of Esmarch’s bandage under chloroform might be tried in suitable cases. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery may be ligatured in the middle of the arm, Avhich is considered the seat of election of this opera- tion, by making an incision, about three inches long, parallel to and upon the inner edge of the biceps (Fig. 483), Avhich is the “ directing line,” and the first ndlying point; the fa.scia, Avhich is exposed, must be opened cmefully to a coiTcspfmding extent, and the edge of the biceps drawn outAATurds, Avhen the median nerve Avill commonly be seen crossing the artery; this must be draAvn downwards Avitb a blunt hook, Avhen the artery, accompanied liy its tAvo veins, will be exposed ; these vessels must then be separated from one another, and the ligature passed and tied in the usual Avay. In performing this operation, the princiiial point to attend to is to cut doAvn upon the inner edge of the