HERNIA. 794 If, liOAVCver, its mass be very large, if it be byi^ertrophied, indurated, oi- otherwise altered in structure, or if it be closely adherent to the sac, at the same time that it is congested, Surgeons are agreed that it should not be returned into the abdominal cavity ; as inflammation of it, Ejnploitis, will probably set in and terminate fatally with effusion into the peritoneal sac. So also, if the omentum be in large quantity, and have become inflamed in the sac, it should not be returned ; as the inflammation in it is very apt to run on to a kind of sloughy condition of the whole mass. If gangrenous, it should certainly not be reduced. When simply hypertrophied and adherent to the sac, but without evidence of inflammation, it may be left in the sac ; but, in many of the cases of hypertrophied, and in all cases of inflamed or gangrenous omentum, the best practice consists in cutting off the mass, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper and Lawrence. If it be left in the sac, inflammation or sloughing of it will occur, and the patient can derive no corresponding advan- tage to the danger he will consequently run. Excision of the mass may be best done by inclosing the neck in a ligature and then cutting it off’ below this. The ligature may be of carbolized catgut or fine carbolized silk. If the mass be large it is better to divide it into several pieces, and to tie each separately. The ligatures are then cut short and allowed to retract with the stump of the omentum into the abdomen. If the omentum has suffered much from the strangulation, it must be drawn well down, so that the ligatures may be applied to a healthy part. If carbolized catgut or silk be not at hand, a strong double ligature of whipcord or silk must be passed through the neck and tied securely on each side, the mass below then being cut off. As a liga- ture of this kind might become a source of irritation if it were drawn into the peritoneal cavity, it must not be cut short, and its ends may be secured to a piece of plaster on the fore part of the abdomen, to prevent retraction of the stump of the omentum. I have frequently employed this plan with excellent effect. The constricted stump of omentum sloughs away in a few days, and separates with the ligature. When this practice is adopted, the wound should not be closed, and must be lightly dressed. The quantity of omentum that is cut off varies considerably ; the mass removed usually weighs from four to six ounces, but iu some instances it may amount to a pound or more. Sacs or Apertures are occasionally formed in the omentum, in which a knuckle of intestine may become enveloped, or by the margins of which it may be strangulated. These envelopes of omentmn around the gut, which have been especially described by Sir P. Hewett, may occur in all kinds of hernia, at least in the inguinal, the femoral, and the umbihcal, and sometimes acquire a large size, completely shutting in the gut. They appear to be formed, in some cases at least, by the adhesion of the opposite edges of floating layers of omentum around a piece of intestine, which thus becomes included. It is of importance to bear in mind the possibility of their existence, and in all cases to unravel the omentum before removing it, lest it contain a knuckle of intestine, which might be wounded in the operation. Cysts, usually containing pellucid serous fluid, straw-coloured or reddened, but sometimes filled with blood, are occasionally met with in the omentum. They appear to be formed in the same way as the sacs containiug intestine just described, except that they are inclosed on all sides, their serous contents being merely exudations from the peritoneal lining of the cyst. Ibcy are globular, clastic, and closely resemble in form a knuckle of intestine,