1065 SUPRAPUBIC PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. ilLiting itself to the shape of the parts, and not bcin<^ so liable to irritate the |l noons membrane with its point, which, dippinj? down into the pouch behind j|j|ie prostate, acts as a syphon, emptyini; this part of the bladder far better uan a silver catheter could do. Sliould tlie Surg-eon Jail lo pass any insirKmeni into the lladder, it becomes i important question what com-se is to be pumued. In these cases, w'hich, jwever, very rarely occur, three lines of practice may be adopted ; imncturv ||' the bladder above the imndiire through the rectum, or forcible 'theterism. Puncture above the Pubes can ^ery seldom be required. Since the niversity College Hospital was opened, only three cases have presented theiu- •Ives in which it was thought proper to adopt such a j^rocedure for retention '0111 enlarged prostate ; and in one of these cases, ivhicli was under my care, “ le enlargement of the prostate ivas complicated with impermeable stricture, '•hich was, indeed, the main cause of the retention. The operation consists : ther in pushing the trochar at once through the abdominal wall; or else, as i tapping for ascites, making a small incision about half an inch in length irough the integuments, exactly in the mesial line, immediately above the bes, and then pushing a curved trochar, with its concaidty downwards and ackwards, into the bladder behind that bone, and consequently underneath ■le reflection of the peritoneum (Fig. 917). After the bladder has been Fis. 917.—runcture of the Blafider. Tlie upper iustrument is in tlie iiosition of Puncture above the I'iibe.s ; the lower in that of tlie Puncture through the Rectum. j enptied, the cannula or an clastic gum tube must be left in for the escape 1 ff the urine, whilst the continuity of the natural passage is being restored. ! h’hen the bladder is greatly distended, in consequence of retention from ralargement of the prostate or any other cause, the peritoneal reflection is *1 carried up with it, and a considerable portion of the anterior wall of the organ : ncovered by peritoneum is left above the pubes. In a case of unrelieved re- ention from stricture, in which the patient died suddenly during the adminis- i