I : ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 1089 are multiple, two frecpiently occurring, and sonictiincs as iiiaiiy as foui r five. t., : Pathological Appearances.—In describing the appearances commonly i et with in a well-marked case of organic stricture, it will be most convenient j; suppose that the whole canal has been laid open along its roof, and to con- i ler the parts in the following order. 1. The part of the urethra anterior to [1 e stricture. 2. The stricture. 3. The urethra behind the stricture. 4. The • .adder. 0. The ureters and kidneys. I 1. The Urethra anterior to the Stricture is perfectly healthy, unless it has •en injured by instruments. If the cut edge of the mucous membrane be isken in a pair of forceps, it will be found to show a considerable degree of i-isticity. Its colour is pink, and it is semi-transparent. The spaces of the 'ongy tissue beneath are empty and open, or filled with blood. : 2.°The Stricture.—At the narrowed part the surface of the mucous inein- ;g. 920.—Stricture from Cou- “*oliclatiou of Corpus Spon- l.'giosum. Fig. 921.—Bridle-stricture. Fig. 922.—Stricture at the Au- terior part of the Urethra. •ane is of an opa(|ue white colour, marked by longitudinal ridges, and often [iirchment-like in appearance. If its edge be seized in the forceps it will be )und to possess but little, if any, elasticity, and to be firmly fixed to the parts eeiieath. The submucous tissue, instead of forming a delicate areolar layer, represented by tough rigid fibroid tissue firmly adherent on one side to the hucous membrane, and blending 011 the other with the cavernous tissue of the Jirpus spongiosum. The spaces of the spongy tissue are, in all more advanced Bcimeiis, oliliterated for a greater or less extent near the stricture, so that the >ir]ius spongiosum at this spot is converted into a dense solid mass. In very litreme cases the chronic inflammatory induration extends even to the areolar [•-•.ssue beyond. The character of the stricture varies greatly. In some cases is aniiidar, encircling the whole canal equally for some little distance. "When ; Is elongated, there is usually marked consolidation of the corpus spongiosum, ‘S in Fig. U20. In other cases, again, annular strictures may be narrow and