URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 946 trite and seizing the calcnlns gently hetween its blades, a correct estimate of its size may always be arrived at. In order to determine that scvaral calculi exist in the l)ladder, it is sometimes sufficient for the Surgeon to feel that the beak of the sound conies into contact with a stone on each side of the organ, or that it can be distinctly insinuated between two concretions, hi some cases, however, these jioints cannot clearly be made out; and then the Surgeon, introducing a lithotrite and seizing the first calculus with which he meets, should hold this between the blades of the instrument, and wliilst it is so fixed move it and the lithotrite from side to side ; when, if a click be heard and felt, he may be sure of the existence of another stone. Sounding is by no means destitute of danger, more especially if roughly done, or in patients who have chronic kidney-disease. In the first case it may give rise to cystitis or profuse and continuous hemorrhage ; in the second, to rigors and suppression of urine. Errors in Sounding occasionally occur. The Surgeon may mistake a hardened and fasciculated bladder, having its ridges perhaps incrusted with phosphatic matter for a calculus ; this is especially apt to happen in children. In these cases, however, the mistake may usually be guarded against by the absence of a distinct click, though a rough grating sensation be experienced, and by the Surgeon being unable to isolate a stone. Yet the difficulty in some cases is great; Yelpeau stated that he was acquainted with four instance.s, and S. Cooper with seven, in which patients have been cut and no calculus found ; and when we reflect that these accidents have happened to such men as Cheselden, who on three occasions cut a patient and found no stone, to Crosse, to Eonx, and to Dnpuytren, it is easy to understand that in some cases the difficulty of coming to a correct decision must be very great. Examination of the Bladder hy Manipulation can be easily caiTied out in children. The patient is fully ansesthetized ; the Surgeon then passes one finger into the rectum and presses firmly wdth the other hand above the pubes. If a stone be present it can be clearly felt by the finger in the rectimi and its size ascertained. In adults this mode of examination is of course impossible if there be much abdominal fat or any enlargement of the prostate, and even in the absence of these conditions it is very uncertain, as the huger does not reach far enough nj) to grasp the stone. Stone in Women.—In women the symptoms of stone closely resemble those met with in men, and the detection of the calculus is usually very easy, owing to the shortness of the canal and the facility with which the stone may be tilted up by introducing the fingers of the left hand into the vagina. The sound used in these cases should be shorter and less curved than that employed for the detection of calculus in the male bladder. Pathological Changes induced by Calculus.—After a stone has existed for some time in the bladder, it induces serious pathological changes in the whole of the urinary apparatus. The nTclhra usually becomes slightly dilated; and the iirostate not unfrequently somewhat enlarged and imtable, in conse- (pience of which a kind of pouch is formed behind it, in which the calculus is apt to lodge. The most important changes, however, take place in the bladder and kidiieys. The hlaclder becomes extremely sensitive, especially about its neck, and is consequently unable to contain as much urine as usual : hence it becomes contracted. In some rare instances, however, as will be inoa‘j la