144 ANEURISM. ligature and in the treatment of the wound, remains to be seen, but tliere is great reason to believe tlie latter is the true explanation. If compression fail, ligature may often be advantageously ap]ilied ; in some cases with a better prospect of success than if compression had not previously been tried, that treatment having caused the collateral circulation to enlarge, and thus lessened the tendency to gangi-ene. If, however, we take the general average of those cases that have been submitted to ligature after the failure of compression, we shall find that the result is not so satisfactory as when the ligature has been employed as the primary method of treatment. Thus I find that, out of 40 cases in which the ligature was employed after compression had failed, there were 16 deaths. This is probably not so much due to the previous employment of compression, as to the same causes interfering with the consoli- dation of the tumour after the ligature that had prevented the success of the compression-treatment. With regard to the facility of ligaturing an arteiy such as the femoral, after compression has been tried and failed, it must Ije admitted that the difficulties are increased. The sheath of the vessels is apt to become thickened, infiltrated, and the artery and vein perhaps less easily separable than when pressure has not previously been employed. In fact, it must be said, that in such cases the Surgeon has not to do with a virgin artery. It should also not be forgotten that in some cases, as when aneurism is com- plicated with heart-disease, or occurs in a very broken and unliealthy constitu- tion, in which the operation necessary for ligature would scarcely or not at all be admissible, compression may be safely employed. After carefully considering the relative merits of the two plans of treatment, I think we may conclude that, though in some few cases neither ligature nor compression can be adopted, and amputation is the sole resource, yet in others compression can be employed when it would not be safe to have recourse to the use of the ligature ; and that, in all ordinary cases of femoral and popliteal aneurism especially, compression should be preferred to the ligatm’e, inasmuch as it is not a more tedious, and is an infinitely safer method of cure. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that its success depends very greatly on the continuous care bestowed upon the case during the progress of the treatment. Digital Compression.—Shortly after the introduction of the treatment of aneurism by instrumental compression, the fingers were used as an adjunct to the mechanical means in use. Thus Creatrex, in 1845, directed a patient to keep up compression by means of the fingers, where the tourniquet had been used, and required to be loosened. In the following year (1846) Yanzetti, then Pro- fessor of Surgeiy at Charkoflf, tried, but unsuccessfully, to cure a large popliteal aneurism by compression of the femoral with the fingers only, continued for two days. It was not until seven years later, when Professor at Padua, that Yanzetti had an opportunity of putting this method successfully into practice, and to establish it as a distinct means of curing aneurisms. But although this merit is undoubtedly due to Yanzetti, we must credit Knight of Newhaven (IT. S. A.) with the first successful case—he having, in 1848, cured a very large popliteal aneurism by digital compression, maintained for forty hours. In this plan of treating aneurisms, no apparatus of any kind is used ; but the circulation through the artery leading to the tumour is controlled by the