EXCISION OF JOINTS. 360 was preserved, and was .so useful that the patient was aljle to walk and "aiii his liveliliood. ^ In or about the year 17")8, Wainman of Shripton sawed off the lower end of the hnmerus in a case of compound dislocation of the ell)Ow-joint with perfect success, the patient recovering with an arm as moveable “as if nothing had ever been amiss ; ” and his example was shortly afterwards followed by 'Tyne of Gloucester, who in a similar case removed two and a half inches of the lower end of the humerus. From this period, the operation of excision of the articular ends of bones in cases of compound dislocations and fractures into joints became an established practice, and was extensively adopted l)y Percy in France, who, in 1794, exhibited to Sabatier nine soldiers in whom he had successfully excised the head of the humerus for gun-shot injury ; by Bilguer in Germany, by Hey of Leeds, and by numerous other Surgeons in this country and abroad. The first case in which a methodical attempt at resection for disease of the articular end of a bone was made occurred to White of Manchester in 1708, who thus removed a large portion of the upper part of the humerus, though it is doubtful whether he actually excised the head of the bone. However this may be, he had j)reviously satisfied himself by experiments on the dead body that this operation was practicable. Although the head of the humerus may not have been removed by White in this case, it certainly was three years later by J. Bent of Newcastle, who in 1771 excised by a formal and pre-arranged operation the carious head of the humerus with complete success. His : example was followed in 1778 by Orred of Chester, who also operated suc- cessfully in a similar case. About the same time, 1775, Justamond, Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital, removed, in a case of disease of the elbow-joint, ; the olecranon and two inches of the ulna. | In 1762, Filkin of Northwich removed the articular ends of the femur and j tibia, together with the patella, in a man affected with disease of the knee- i joint, resulting from a fall from a horse. Filkin was led to this operation, in consequence of having experimentally practised it on the dead subject, as a substitute for amputation of the limb, to which the patient refused to submit. The patient recovered rapidly, had a useful limb on which he was able to walk long distances, and was certainly alive nearly thirty years afi;er the operation. This remarkable case seems to have attracted little, if any, attention, and indeed was not published until 1790, after Park of Liverpool brought before the Profession his second successful case of excision of the Imee-joint, which occurred in 1789. That Sm’geon had performed his first operation of this kind most successfully, as regarded utility of limb, in 1781, apparently without any knowledge of the operation that had been done by Filkin nearly twenty years previously. The example thus set by the English Surgeons was speedily followed by the Moreaus in France, who, between the years 1786 and 1789, sent various memoirs to the French Academy on this subject. The operation, however, was violently opposed by the great body of Surgeons, and, with the exception of the occasional removal of the head of the humerus, fell into almost complete neglect both in this country and abroad for a period of nearly forty years, during which time the records of Surgery do not contain as many cases in which the articular ends of bones were excised for disease. It continued in this languid state until 1831, when it received a new and vigorous impulse.