EXCISION OF JOINTS. 368 I disease extending, and tlie sinuses not licaling, so that eventually excision of the whole of the diseased head of the hone has been required. Complete Excision of the head of the humerus is the operation usually rc(juircd. It may be practised in several different ways—the lines of incision through the soft parts being varied according to the conditions of the case, jjj They are most commonly made on the front or outer side'of the joint through i the deltoid muscle, but in exceptional cases the head of the bone may be . removed from behind. Excision may be performed by the single longitudinal i or its modifications the “| or T-sbaped incision, or by a U-shaped incision or * flap-operation. The operation by the single longitudinal incision may be performed as follows. \ The patient lying on his back, with his shoulder slightly projecting over the i edge of the table, the Surgeon enters the knife to the outside and above the i coracoid process, about half an inch below the clavicle, and can-ies it directly j downwards for from three to four inches, stopping immediately above the ; insertion of the pectoralis major. The first incision should divide the skin and i fat, and pass through the anterior fibres of the deltoid, so that when the wound is held open the capsule of the shoulder-joint comes into \dew. This incision is immediately external to the cephalic vein, which should not be wounded, and divides no important artery or nerve. The wound being now held open with blunt hooks or copper spatulm (Fig. 534), the bicipital groove should be felt for between the great and small tuberosities of the humerus. A longitudinal incision is then made firmly on to the bone along the inner side of the groove, dividing the periosteum covering the head of the bone, and the capsule as far ^ as the margin of the glenoid ca\dty. If the long tendon of the biceps be still undestroyed by the disease it must be turned out of the groove and held to the i outer side in a blunt hook. The assistant then rotates the arm forcibly out- wards, so as to bring the small tuberosity well into the wound, and the Surgeon separates the tendon of the subscapularis and the periosteum from the bone , with a periosteal elevator. In most cases of disease of the joint this can l)e ; done without great difficulty, as the adhesion of the tendon to the bone is > loosened by the inflammation. Should the adhesion of the tendon be too finn ' to allow of its being stripped off with the elevator the knife must be used, but ' care should be taken to shave the capsule off in such a way as, if possible, to . leave it still connected with the periosteum covering the upper part of the ■ humerus. The arm then being rotated inwards, and the limb allowed to fall over the edge of the table, the three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity ' are separated from the bone in the same way as the subscapularis. During this part of the operation the biceps tendon must be drawn to the inner side with a blunt hook. The assistant then forces the head of the bone up into the wound whilst the Surgeon separates the posterior part of the capsule with an elevator, leaving it attached, if possible, to the periosteum below. He now takes the limb in his own hands, and having the soft parts well retracted he pushes the head of the bone out of the wound so as to allow the easy application of the saw by which it is removed. Should the parts around the head of the bone be thickened, and unyielding, more space may be gained by making a short cross ; cut at the upper end of the longitudinal incision, and thus converting it into a modification of the "1 or T. By this method of operating, the posterior cir- cumflex artery and the circumflex nerve are not divided, and but few vessels | will be found to require ligature. The fibres of the deltoid are little interfered ■