468 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. published ill the Archiv fiir IGmische 67^™-///^ (1870) the statistics of 17fi cases. In 24 of these, or 13-6 per cent., death occurred from iiitercurrent diseases—mostly pymmia (II) and septicaemia (2). FouHeen patients, or 8 per cent., died within a fortniglit from exhaustion ; 14 others died between this time and the end of the first month—most from exhaustion, one from amyloid disease, and two from phthisis. From the beginning of the second month to the end of the year after the operation there were 27 deaths, or I.'}-3 per cent. ; while nine died in the course of two or more years, of phthisis and other diseases. Leisrink states that in 170 cases of excision of the hip, there were altogether 98 deaths. Of this apparently high mortality, however, only about one half, or 20 per cent, of the whole cases, can be ascribed to the operation itself, or to the intercurrence of pyaemia and other diseases which are liable to attend operative procedures. The other half of the deaths were produced by extension of the disease, by diarrhoea, or by phthisis or other disease of internal organs—probably in many instances existing at the time when the operation was performed. The mortality following the operation appears to have been much lower in England and America than in France and Germany. In 1881 Croft published the statistics of 45 cases operated on by himself; of these 19 recovered, 18 died, and 8 were still under treatment at the time of the report. Of the 40 per cent, of deaths, 15'G died directly from the operation, 13*4 from some form of tubercular disease, 6‘6 from albuminoid disease, and 4-4 from causes unconnected with the joint-affection. Of 203 cases of excision collected by the committee of the Clinical Society, 29, or 13’7 per cent, died directly from the operation. The result of my own experience is, that the mortality directly referable to the operation itself is but small. Excision of the head of the thigh-bone or of the hip-joint stands in a different position from similar operations practised on other joints. The Surgeon excises the elbow, shoulder, or ankle, in order to restore an useful limb to the patient. Excision of these joints is a substitute for the loss of the limb by amputation—not, as in the case of the hip, to prevent the almost inevitable loss of the life of the patient by continuance of hectic. 2. In estimating the utility of the limh left after the excision of the hip-joint, we must compare it with the kind of member that would be left in the event of the patient surviving sufficiently long for a natural cure to result. It would be manifestly absurd to compare a limb which had become seriously crippled, withered, diseased, and shortened, before any operation was undertaken, with one in which no morbid process had ever taken place. So also would it be unjust to compare it with the state of a limb left after a slight attack of coxalgia, in Avhich operation could never have become necessary, nor have been contemplated. But, on comparing the results of cases operated on with those of cases which recover spontaneously, after caries and destructive disin- tegration of the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone have existed for years, we shall find that the balance is by no means against those in which excision has been done. As I do not consider the operation necessary in cases of arthritic coaxalgia, I do not compare the result of these cases vuth that of those operated on, but confine myself entirely to those in ivhich there has been destructive bone-disease. In those rare cases of this description, wlien, after years of pro- longed sufiering, recovery is at last accomplished by natural means, the limb