REMOVAL OF THE AXILLARY GLAXDH. 747 Fig. 777.—Incisions required for tliorouglily clearing Axilla. finger.s should he used, and any bands which are met with, and appear to contain vessels should he isolated, and a ligature passed round them, after which they may he divided with scissors. By thus working carefully at the upper part of the axilla, the fat and the glands contained in it may he safely separated from the gi’eat vessels which are left exposed often for one or two inches. Finally, the whole mass is drawn downwards, and separated from the posterior border of the axilla, care being taken not to wound the subscapular artery and vein to which the enlarged glands are sometimes adherent. Should it he necessary to divide these vessels, they must not be cut too close to the main trunks. The complete extii-patioii of the a.xillary glands is the most difficult part of the operation, hut by patient and careful dissection it can 1x3 safely accomplished. If the enlarged glands that are readily per- ceptible are alone removed without the fat- surrounding them, a number of ^ smaller glands are sure to be left behind. Wound of the axillary vein is the most likely accident to occur in removing glands seated high up. It usually I arises from tearing through some small branch just as it enters the main trunk. If the opening be very small, it is easily secured by pinching it up. upwards along the anterior bonier of the axilla to the arm. i he mamma is then removed in the ordinary way, the surface of the pectoralis inajoi cing carefully cleaned. Having arrested the bleeding, the burgeon now piocee s to remove the contents of the axilla as completely as possible, including not only the lymphatic glands but the fat surrounding them. AVhile doing t ns the bandage securing the arm must be loosened, and the limb given to an assistant, who must hold it in the position most convenient to the biugeon. The edge of the pectoralis major may be cleaned with the scalpel, care being taken to expose and clean the lower part of the pectoralis minor also, as a few trUiuds almost invariably lie concealed between this and the great pectoral, and may be easily overlooked. In doing this the external mammary artery will be divided. Tlie contents of the axilla are then turned carefully over to the [ posterior side of the space. In the lower part this may safely be done with the edge of the knife, but at the upper part the handle of the scalpel and the