UYPERTEOrilY—GALACTORRlIQJA-GALACTOCELE. 709 of fifteen, who was under my care for this condition. In some cases the breast has been found after death to weigh as much as twenty pounds ; and after removal, a breast of this kind, taken from a young woman under thirty, has ||;i * kveighed no less than twelve pounds, being '■* utirely composed of its normal tissues, greatly hypertrophied. In cases of hyper- trophy both breasts are usually afiecLed, :hough one is commonly more so than the other. AVhen first this morbid condition jommences, the breast preserves its usual jhape, though it is increased in bulk ; but IS it enlarges it gTadually projects forwards, Irawing down the skin of the shoulders, of «;he side of the chest, and even of the back, lud hanging downwards, until, as in a case uentioned by Berard, it has been known to ■each to the knees. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection PS very unsatisfactory. The general health inust be attended to, and an endeavour may )e made to excite lactation, and thus to mload the vessels of the breast by the ■mployment of galactagogue remedies. Amputation of the organ should not )e ])erformed in these cases, unless the growth attain so great a size as to •ender life a burden. Then the mass may be extirpated with little trouble or langer. Fig- 70.—Simple Hj'pertrophy of Breast in a Girl fifteen j'ears old. ABNOKMAIj conditions of the lacteal secbetion. The lacteal secretion is occasionally the cause of abnormal conditions in the nreast. Thus the milk may appear at unusual times, a twelvemonth, for instance, after weaning ; it has occasionally been knoAvn to be secreted in hildren, and in some remarkable instances in boys and men. In other . nstances again, after parturition, there is a total Absence of Milk, either ■»wing to want of development in the gland, or to debility on the part of the nother. The opposite condition will occasionally occur, and an Excessive i’low of Milk may continue, especially in hysterical females long after the hild has Ixien weaned. In such cases as these, the galactorrhoea may be becked by the application of the extract of belladonna to the breast, aided by he employment of tonics, and the administration of acids. Lacteal Tumour.—It may happen during lactation that one of the ictiferous ducts becomes obstructed, either by its being obliterated by in- -ammation or occluded by the deposit in it of a small concretion—a lacteal alculus. In either case the walls of the duct may be expanded, so that at • wt it constitutes a moderate-sized cyst, fluctuating on pressure, and evidently ontaining fluid. In some cases, the lacteal tumour has been known to attain n enonnous size. Walpy has related a case in which Scarpa drew off ten pounds f milk by tapping a collection of this kind. These tumours may exist for a onsiderable time. Dnpuytren records an instance in which one had existed or ten months, and Cooper one of a year’s duration. In these chronic cases