31 TETANUS—GA USES. rise to painful and continued spasms of tlie yoliintaiy muscles and the diaphragm, alternating with incomplete relaxation, and usually terminating fatally. Causes of Tetanus.—This, which is one of the most serious and distress- ing diseases to which the nervous system is liable, is in the great majority of instances of Traumatic origin, being the consequence of some wound that implicates or irritates a portion of the peripheral nervous system ; the local irritation so produced being propagated to the nervous centres, the excitation of which becomes pemistent, and continues after the local cause has been removed, inducing reflex muscular movements in various parts of the body. The irritation of the nervous system, how'ever, that induces tetanus, may arise from other soiu’ces besides surgical wounds, occasioning the Idiopathic form of the disease ; thus, for instance, the presence of worms in the intestinal canal, exposure to cold and wet, the ligature of the umbilical cord in infants, and even the uterine irritation following abortion, have been known to occasion it. These causes, however, rarely give rise to it in this country. Tetanus may occur at all ages, from the earliest infancy to an advanced period of life. In hot climates it is common amongst newly-born infants, in the form of Trismus Neonatorum. In this country it rarely occurs at this very early period of life, but is common in young adults. I have most fre- quently observed it between the ages of 16 and 25, and after that in old people ; but it may occur at any period of life. It is far more common amongst males than females—in the proportion of about four to one. Season of the year seems to exercise little influence over it. It occurs in all states of the atmosphere, and at all periods of the year ; but is certainly most common when the weather is suddenly changeable—alternating from heat to cold. Indeed, long exposure to cold and wet, more particularly after the body has been heated, is the most common cause of tetanus when it occurs independently of surgical injury, and is a frequent predisposing cause in persons who have been wounded. Tetanus may be occasioned by injuries that do not give rise to breach of surface ; thus I have known it occur in a child who was suddenly thrown down upon its back by another at play, in a girl from a boy jumping on to her back, and in a lad by another striking him on the back by running a wheel- bari’ow at him ; and Reid mentions a case produced by the stroke of a whip ; but in the great majority of cases, it is directly occasioned by a tvound of some kind. Generally a nervous twig has been lacerated, divided, or inflamed ; and this seems to have been the starting point of that disturbance of the spinal system of nerves which leads to the tetanic spasms. The Tcind of wound, as well as its situation, doubtless influences materially the occurrence of the disease. Though it certainly more frequently follows punctured, tom, and lacerated, than clean-cut wounds, yet it occasionally com- plicates these, even when they are made in surgical operations ; thus,' it has been known to follow the removal of the breast, amputation, the ligature of the larger arteries, and the operation for hernia. The minor surgical opera- tions also are not free from the possibility of this dangerous complication. It has been observed after the operation for fistula in ano, the ligature of piles and varicocele, the removal of nasal polypi; and I have seen a fatal case result- ing even from the introduction of an issue. Burns arc peculiarly liable to be followed by tetanus. It is tlie common belief, both in the profession and out