149 TREATMENT BY G ALVA NO-PUNCTURE. ; latioii witli compression in a case of popliteal aneurism, in which the pressure : on the artery was slow in consolidating' the tumour ; the detachment of a I portion of the coaguliim almost at once led to the consolidation of the tumour. • Somewhat analogous to this method is one recommended in 1842 by Blake, I who proposed, by the introduction of a cataract-needle into the sac, to detach ( some of the laminated fibrine, which might then be washed against, and I occlude the aperture of the exit. Galvano-puxcture.—The attempt to procure the consolidation of an aneurismal sac by the employment of electricity is of comparatively recent date. It appears to have been first practised by B. Phillips, about the year 1832. Little attention, however, was given to the mode of treatment until a few years back, when it was revived by some of the French and Italian . Surgeons, especially Petrequin, Burci, and Ciniselli. The object aimed at by this operation is the production of coagulation in the aneurismal sac by decomposition of the blood contained in it by means of the galvanic current. "When two needles connected with the poles of a galvanic battery are intro- duced into a mass of fluid blood, a firm solid coagulum is rapidly formed round that connected with the positive pole, while at the same time a large, soft, spongy clot mixed with bubbles of gas is seen at the negative needle, and a dark, tar-like fluid also makes its appearance. If the needle used be made of steel or any other readily soluble metal, further changes occur at the positive pole due to the production of salts of iron with the acids liberated from the blood. These changes are spoken of as secondary electrolysis. The clot formed by electrolysis is, therefore, not composed simply of the fibrine of the blood, but contains also a large proportion of albumen coagulated by the chemical action of the ciu’rent, and must be looked upon as a foreign body aroimd which we hope ordinaiy coagulation will occiu’. The operation of galvano-puncture is best performed as follows. Two steel needles, well insulated with vulcanite or gum elastic, are inserted into the sac of the aneurism and connected with the opposite poles of the battery. The needles should be about one inch apart, parallel to each other, and so inserted that no part of the uninsulated portion of the needle shall touch the sac. The best battery for the pui’pose is one of the ordinary medical batteries Avith small Leclanch6 cells, of which from ten to Lventy may be used for a time varying from twenty minutes to half an hour, or more—according to the eflect produced. If the tumour be sufliciently near the surface to be clearly observed, as has been the case in several of the aneurisms in AA'hich the treat- ment has been employed, it vdll be seen to become more tense and firm, and the expansile nature of the pulsation will become diminished as the operation progresses. »Sometimes bubbles of gas escape by the side of the negative needle, and a little thick brown fluid oozes up. Occasionally the tumour has been found to swell and become resonant on percussion. When a distinct effect has been produced the needles may be Avithdrawn, and the small punctures ' clewed with lint and collodion. The negatiA'c needle Avill be found unaltered, Avhile the positiA'e Avill be coiToded directly in proportion to the amount of • electrolytic action that has taken place. In order to prevent this corrosion of the positive needle, it has been suggested by Dr. John Duncan that platinum may used instead of steel. There is no evidence, liOAveA'cr, to proA'c that the salts of iron produced give rise to any jiarticular danger ; in fact, it is probable they aid considerably in the fonnation of the firm coagulum sur-