349 RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS OF HIP. projecting and narrowed at its rim, embracing tightly the head ol the tngi- bone (Fig. 0:-U). Both it and the upper part of the thigh-bone become porons, and perforated with numerous small foramina. Masses of bone aie commonly thrown out about the base of the trochanter, but more particnlaily along the inter-trochanteric line within the capsule of the joint, and not unfreqneiitly in the soft tissue around it. In many cases the apparent increase in the size of the head of the bone is dependent on the deposition of these masses of osseous tissue upon it, rather than on any expansion of the upper articular end of the thigh-bone. These masses of bone constitute one of the most important characters of the disease. The muscles and soft structures in the vicinity of the joint are necessarily wasted from disuse. Diagnosis.—It occasionally happens that an individual labouring under this affection, meeting with affill or contusion on the hip, presents signs of fracture of the neclc of the thigh-hone, such as shortening, eversion, with some crepita- tion perhaps, and inability to move the limb. The diagnosis may in general readily be effected by attention to the history of the case, and by eliciting the ffact that the symptoms have existed to some degree before the accident, i although the pain and immobility may have been increased by it. Clironic E-heumatoid Arthritis of the Lower Jaw.—Chronic rhenma- L toid arthritis has also been described by Smith as occasionally affecting the tem- r poro-maxillary articulation in individuals of rather advanced life. This disease is often symmetrical, and gives rise to an enlargement of the condyle of the ‘ jaw, which can l)e felt under the zygoma, attended with much pain in opening the mouth, a sensation of cracking or grating in the joint, and some enlarge- I ment of the lymphatic glands by the side of the neck. The pain is generally ' increased at night, and influenced by the state of the weather. The face becomes distorted, the affected side of the jaw projecting and being pushed towards the opposite side; but when both joints are affected the chin projects, the entire jaw being drawn forwards. This distortion is chiefly owing to the destruction of the articular eminence; for, when this takes place, the external pterj-goid muscle draws the jaw forwards and to the opposite side; but when both articulations are equally affected, these muscles displace it directly fonvards: the glenoid cavity becomes enlarged, the fibro-cartilagc disappears, and the condyle is sometimes gi'catly thickened and flattened, and always