DIFFICULTIES hV LATERAL LITHOTOMY. f made, the membranous portion may be torn across ; and tlie neck of the I i ac ( ei, leceding bctore the fin<^er, may easily be pushed away from tlie sur- , ace,^ so that tlie Surgeon may fail in rcacliing the cavity of the organ. AVhen I le loml is once lost in this way, there is the very greatest difficulty in finding ^ couree that sliould be pursued is, I think, as follows. If the statt Jiave not been withdrawn, the Surgeon must again place the knife in its :?roove, and carefully push it on towards the neck of the bladder, notching that - structure and passing the finger cautiously along the gToovc, and hooking"down .im parks with his nail until he reach the inside of the bladder. Should the E - art have been withdrawn, the Surgeon must endeavour to pass it ao-ain • if j^ie succeed in this, he may act as just stated; but if he cannot simceed’in >1: utrodueing the staff fairly into the bladder, he must on no account luliatever r ', viscus, or continue his attempts at the extraction of the f Siculus, but must at once abandon the operation until the parts have healed f^|hen he c;iu repeat it. The great danger in these cases arises from the anpoii losing Ins presence of mind, and endeavouring to enter the bladder ■'d ■ I hout a guide a procediue which must be unsuccessful, and can end onlv Vi the destruction of the patient. ^ ^ In adults, the difficulty is to get out the stone ; in children, to get into the ♦ ladder. ° u Seizing and Extracting the Stone is far more frc- nien ly met with than m reaching the bladder. This may be owing to a niriety of causes It is likely to happen in all those cases in which, either I om the depth at which the bladder lies from the surface, or from the peculiar .position of the calculus, the stone cannot be felt with the finger after the I'lcisious have been made into the neck of the bladder. i f‘'omUie Position of the Stone.—Y\\g calculus may be lodged in the especially apt to happen if the patient be old and fat |nd have a deep per.nmum, perhaps with enlarged prostate, behind which ' Istlj constitutes the greatest difficulty. Here the . _ p an 18 to use a much-curved pair of forceps, and to tilt the bladder nii d .ach the stone within ; \2en the stone is situated /n the upper fundus of the bladder above the k T !■!]’ incision, and in such a case can hIp 77^ ^ ^ difficulty. Aston Key reconunends that in such he abdomen should be compressed, and the calculus thus pushed down i r i suggestion IS a veiy useful one ; and it was only by employ- li^t us manmuvre and using a very curved scoop, that I could ramove a . cuius lodged abo^ e the pubes, m the first patient whom T cut at the Hospital any years ago. MJficdl!/ in comeqvence of tko Stone lehy Fiml to or retained in the Nadder • T 'Ti ‘pipci % tliefolde of the mucom memlram, ami ^ ♦.l u g for the hurgoon to <lo, l,ut patiently to try to disentangle and remove ■ (.almdns by means ot the finger and scoop, if it can be so reached ; if not expanding tlie forceps in the bladder, to try to inisli aside tlic nmeoni f mbrane that surrounds the stone. nincons t tliat a c.ailciilus has lieen so firmly fixed as not to admit ot tlie 3 Q 2