281 A CUTE NECROSIS—RESULTS—TREA TMENT. the affection is, that it is due to a specific vims entering the blood from with- out, and finding the nidus for its development in the vascular growing tissue beneath the periosteum, or in the layer of cartilage between the shaft and the epiphyses, the determining cause of the local outbreak being in most cases some slight injury with extravasation of blood. The pus, when fii’st let out, is always free from any unpleasant odour. The rapid extension of the suppuration is partly due to the infective nature of the pus and partly to the fact that it is pent-up beneath the dense fibrous layer of the periosteum. Results.—As the name “ acute necrosis ” implies, the disease almost in- variably results in more or less extensive death of the compact tissue. The extent of the necrosis by no means necessarily corresponds to the area from which the periosteum has been raised by the pus, for after this has been evacuated, the membrane may adhere again to a considerable extent, and the connection between its vessels and those of the bone be re-established. In a case lately in University College Hospital the tibia was felt to be bare from one end of the shaft to the other, yet after free incisions were made no necrosis followed, except over an area of about one square inch near the lower end. The after-history of the dead bone, the process of separation of the sequestrum and repair, will be fully described with necrosis in general. Diagnosis.—Before the local symptoms become evident, especially in fat children, the disease is easily mistaken for one of the acute specific fevers. So likely is this to happen, that in cases of sudden severe febrile distm’b- ance of doubtful nature in children, the bones should always be examined. 'Wlien the SAvelling sets in, it may be mistaken for phlegmonous erysipelas or cellulitis, but these conditions are rare in childhood. When pus is suspected, a puncture should be made with a grooved needle or an aspirator, by which the diagnosis can usually be cleared up. Prognosis.—The prognosis of acute necrosis is always gvave, but as Bilh’oth points out, it is probably not so fatal as hospital-statistics would make it appear. The milder cases, in which the extension of the inflammation is limited, are often treated at home, and come under hospital treatment only at a later period, for removal of the sequestra. In fact, the great majority of cases of extensive necrosis of the long bones in young subjects are the result of this disease. Treatment.—The only treatment is to cut down upon the bone and let out the pus from beneath the periosteum at the earliest possible period. In the thigh the incision is best made on the outer side, in the leg in front, over the tibia. The incisions must be free, and if necessary, several may be made. The wounds must be well drained and treated antiseptically. If the discharges be allowed to decompose, the danger of the patient will be greatly increased. The result of the treatment is usually immediately to relieve the constitutional symptoms and arrest the progress of the disease, but in a certain proportion of cases general infection may have taken place before the abscess was recognized, and the result is then always fatal. If after the incisions have been made the discharge remains very profuse and threatens to exhaust the patient, amputation may sometimes be necessary. If the shaft of the bone is separated at each end from the epiphyses and lies loose in the cavity of the abscess, it becomes a question whether it should be removed at once or left, in the ho])e that it may partly recover or may at least serve as a support during the ibrmation of the new bone from the periosteum.