921 TUBERCULA R KIDNEY-SYMPTOMS. Primary tuberculosis of the kidney may commence in that organ, and 1)C limited to it for some time, or it may be merely a ])art of general tubercular disease of the genito-nrinary tract. AVlien the disease begins in the kidney, it commences by the formation of a caseating centre in the cortex. This softens and gi-adnally extends till, by the destruction of the pyramid corre- sponding to the affected part, it reaches the pelvis, and the products of the ])roccss mixed with pus are discharged with the urine. Several such centres in various stages of softening and disintegration are usually met with in the same kidney. The mucous membrane of the pelvis then becomes affected, and the disease extends to the bladder. In some cases the' disease follows the revei'se course, commencing in the prostate or bladder, and extending upwards to the kidney. It frequently happens in the later stages that the ureter becomes obliterated. The disease then follows one of two courses, either the chronic suppuration continues and the remains of the kidney become distended into a huge abscess which may finally point in the loin or bm'st into the gut, or the fluid parts of the pus may be absorbed and the residue form a thick putty-like mass, which may remain unchanged for months or years. The former condition must necessarily occur if any secreting substance remains undestroyed in the kidney. The i^ost-morimn appearances of a kidney in the advanced stages are the folloAving :—The whole kidney is gveatly enlarged, often to five or six times its natural size. The perinephritic fat is densely indurated by chronic inflammation, and intimately blended Avith the capsule ; the capsule is thickened, but separates with moderate ease from the cortex ; ■ the cortex if any remains is thin and tough ; the pyramids have disappeared, the pelvis and calyces are dilated, and the Avhole caAuty is filled with a thick creamy or putty-like mass having a sour offensive smell. In less adA'anced cases only one or tAvo pjTamids Avith the corresponding part of the cortex may be affected. Two important facts Avith regard to this affection aare, first, that in the gi’eat majority of cases both kidneys are implicated, though the disease is always more advanced in one than in the other ; and •secondly, that if it is at all advanced, the morbid condition extends a greater or less distance down the ureter. The symptoms may in the early stage be refeiTed chiefly to the bladder ; there may be great irritation and an almost constant desire to pass water, Avith scalding pain during the act. There is it the same time pain in the loin, usually dull and aching, and not radiating 1:0 the testicle or groin. It may be increased by movement, especially of the neighbouring muscles. When both kidneys are seriously affected, constant vomiting may fonn a marked feature of the case. The urine contains j)us, )ften in considerable amount and intermittent, and the bacillus of tubercle ■las been recognized in it, and the diagnosis thus established. Blood may xjcur, but is seldom abundant, and often completely Avaiiting. If both vidneys are affected, the quantity of urine gradually diminishes, and the Amount of solids excreted l>econie8 less. As the disease advances, the enlarged <idney becomes clearly perceptible, ju’esenting the ordinary signs of a renal Aimour. A chronic abscess gradually forms in the loin in many cases ; general tubercular infection takes place, and the patient dies of exhaustion, riie diagnosis of the disease is often extremely difficult until the enlarged •ddney can be clearly felt. Repeated vomiting, progressive emaciation, the [lersistent dull character of the pain, the comparative absence of blood in die urine, and the evidence of tubei'cle elsewhere, as in the prostate or lungs.