EXCISION OF JOINTS. 3S4 of the tendons then cxistinf^ must l>e forcildy broken down l^y moving the joints. An incision is now made “from uljout the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with the styloid ]>rocess, dowjiwards and outwards towards the inner side of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the tliumb ; but, on reaching the line of the radial border of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, it is carried downwards longitudinally for half the length of that bone.” This incision should commence in the angle forined by the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and the upper part should run parallel to the latter tendon, but without injuring it. The tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior will be cut, but that of the lougior will escape for the present, and the angle formed by the two parts of the incision should be close to the inner side of its insertion. If the first part of the incision be carried too far, there is danger of w’ounding the radial artery. The soft parts are then to be separated carefully from the bones on the radial side of the incision, the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior being now cut as close to its insertion as possible. The tendon of the extensor secundi in- ternodii pollicis and the radial artery are to be pushed outw'ards out of the way. The trapezium must then be separated from the rest of the carpus by cutting in the longitudinal part of the incision with the bone-forceps. The soft parts on the ulnar side of the radial incision are now to be dissected up as far as can Fig. 544.—Diagi-ain of Wrist. A. Deep Palmar Arch. B. Trapezium. C. Articular Sui-face of Ulna over which Radius moves. (Lister.) Indicis. D. Extensor Communis Digitonun. E. Extensor Minimi Digiti. F. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. G. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. H. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. I. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brerior. K. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. L. L. Line of Radial Incision. (Lister.) I r ' * if 'll i I be conveniently done, the remainder being raised from the ulnar incision. AYMle this is being done, the tendons must be relaxed by extending the joint. The trapezium is not to be removed yet, as any attempt to dissect it out before removing the rest of the carpus would endanger the radial artery and the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis. The ulnar incision is now to be made. It must be a free incision, commencing at least two inches above the end of the ulna 11 ■