DISEASES OF JOINTS. 344 !l the early stage, -wlieii the aflection lias come on insidiously, without any very active symptoms, we must trust to general anti-strumous treatment ; to the influence of good diet and sea-air, and to the administration of tonics, cod- liver oil, and iodine. In the local treatment there are three great principles to he carried out. 1. Rest, with perfect immobility of the joint, is by far the most important element in the treatment, without which all the efibrts of the Surgeon to prevent i suppuration and disorganization of the joint will be futile. 2. Comprression, by means of bandages, strapping, or splints, will aid in the absorption of the inflammatory products in and around the joint. ?>. Counter JriItationhym.Q2im of blisters or the actual cautery may be employed. These, to be of real s service, should be used before suppuration has occurred : after this they are of no use. The limb should be put into a position Avhich is not only easy to the patient, but which will leave it most useful should a stiff joint result. If it be one of the joints of the lower extremity that is affected, especial care must : be taken that the patient do not bear his weight upon it. If it is the hip or knee that is diseased, the best splints are those invented by H. 0. Thomas of Liverpool, which will be described in the next chapter. If the ankle is affected the patient may be allowed to move about, kneeling on a “ pin leg,” with l a trough to support the limb below the knee. In the upper limb, rest is best • secured by well-j)added leather or g-utta-percha splints. In many cases, both . in the upper and lower limb, a plaster of Paris bandage over flannel or a i starched bandage well lined with cotton wadding vull be fomid a most useful ’ appliance. This kind of application will be found to give most efficient support, ; and will keep the whole of the limb perfectly motionless, so that the patient I can take open-air exercise, and walk with the aid of crutches, without risk of I" injuring the diseased joint. In this respect the starched bandage presents i great advantages over the short leather splints often used. It may readily be 1 cut open opposite the diseased joint, so as to admit of the application of proper r dressings to it. The period during which it is necessary to maintain perfect • rest varies in different cases, but if the disease has advanced beyond the earliest stages many months or even a year will be required. The period of rest must '. not be shortened, for fear of causing stiffness of the joint. Imperfect rest from defective apparatus, by prolonging the disease, is a much more frequent cause | of permanent impairment of function in the joint. So long as there is any ; tenderness or pain or marked swelling, rest must be maintained. j Dm’ing acute exacerbations of the disease, leeches may sometimes be useful; j; these must, however, be used as sparingly as possible. Should severe starting I pains at night be present, without evidence of suppuration, the actual cautery, ’. applied as described on p. 336, is extremely beneficial. i After all inflammation has, in this way, been removed, and nothing but ; thickening and stiffness of the joint are left, measures may be adopted for j removing these conditions, and restoring the flexibility of the articulation by frictions with somewhat stimulating and counter-irritant embrocations, and eventually its strength by douches of sea-water. The swelling and puffiness that are left, together with the debility dependent on relaxation of the liga- ments, are j>erhaps best remedied by the use of Scott’s strapping; but pressure should not be applied so long as there is evidence of active inflammation going on in the articulation, which it would certainly increase. If abscess form it must be freely oi^ened, with strict antiseptic precautions.