183 CAUSES OF INTRACRANIAL ANEURISAI no other set of arteries in the body of tlie same size as these within the skull in which spontaneous aneurism so frequently occurs. This can be accounted for only by the thinness of their coats and want of an external fibrous sheath render- ing them unable to support the increased tension, to which they are occasionally subjected in consequence of the alteration in pressure of the cerebral circula- tion at different periods, the result of some variation in the relative quantities of the different fluids within the skull, or of determination of blood to the brain. This would be the case more particularly if their natural elasticity had already been impaired by the occurrence of degeneration of their coats. As these changes are the natural consequences of advance in age, we shall find the tendency to the occurrence of this disease increase with advancing years. Thus, according to Sir AVilliam Gull, of 58 cases in which the patient’s age is given, only 12 cases occurred in persons under twenty-five, five of the patients being under twenty; of the remaining 4G cases, 13 occurred in persons under forty; of the remaining 33, 29 were met with between forty and sixty and 4 in pereons above sixty. Of the 58 cases, 35 were males, and 23 females. Church believes that, in the young, intracranial aneurism is due to embolism. The immediate exciting cause of the disease is most commonly involved in obscurity: sometimes it may be traced to a blow on the head, to a fall or con- cussion, or to excess in drinking ; but more frequently the symptoms manifest themselves suddenly, without being in any way attributable to such external influences, and occur in vigorous and apparently healthy pei-sons. Pathology.—Intracranial aneurisms are almost always formed by the uniform dila- tation of the whole of the calibre of the ai-tery—the sacculated variety being rarely met with. In the museum of University College there are, however, two specimens of sacculated aneurisms of the cerebral arteries. The coats of the arteries in this situation being very thin, and unprovided with any external fibrous sheath that w^ould support the impetus of the blood, rupture of the vessel would occur rather than partial dila- tation, if one portion only of the circum- ference were diseased. Occasinally, the dilatation is fusiform, extending over some length of the artery : this form is probably confined to the basilar artery (Fig. 473). I he disease would appear to be of slow growTh, and the sac sometimes be- comes filled with laminated coagula so completely as to occlude the orifice of the artery from which it springs. I he size that aneurism in this situation attains before death results is some- times considerable : thus, in a case of anenrism of the basilar artery, that occurred some years ago at the Univereity College Hospital, the tumour was. nearly as large as a walnut ; in another case, in the same hospital, it some- what e.xceeded this size. K. AV. Hmith, in the Duhlin Journal of Medical P’ig. 473.—Fusiform Aneurism of ]3a.silar Artery laiil open.