J025 LITIIOTRITY IX WOMEX. ft index finger. .A scalpel is then ])iished through the anterior wall of the [ igina and inferior fundus of the bladder into the groove in the staff, which is ade to enter just behind the urethra, and is then run backwards for about ff|r inch ; through the aperture thus made the forceps is passed, and the stone ,ktracted. The incision into the bladder through the anterior vaginal wall .ould be brought together by metallic sutures, as in ordinary operations for -:sico-vaginal fistula, and may thus be successfully closed, as has been done ^ J. Lane, Aveling, and others. On Comparison of these three operations, urethral lithotomu is certainly e easiest, the least severe at the time of its performance, and the least likely be attended by after evil consequences. It is quite sufficient for the cxtrac- jii of all ordinary calculi. The only possible evil that may result from it ' the want of union of the incision. But should this happen, a plastic HDcedure at a subsequent period can easily remedy the defect that would thus left. ;Both the high and the vaginal operations are easy of performance. In the lib operation, there would, Avith care, be but little risk of injuring the peri- 'leiim ; and the chance of urinary infiltration, Avliich is a serious objection in l'3 male, may be prevented in the female by the introduction of a siphon tbheter into the urethra. The vaginal operation, though easier of perform- cce, is open to the objection of possibly leaving a permanent urinary fistula. I however, the lips of the incision have not been bruised by the forceps, or in 3 extraction of the stone, and be immediately brought together by metallic i:ures, the risk of a fistula is, after all, not great. Yaginal lithotomy may, in ne cases, be the only alternative. I extracted, by this operation, a calculus 'asuring eight inches by six in circumference, from the bladder of a woman (enty-three yeai-s of age, who had suffered from symptoms of stone from Lldhood. The stone by its size offered so serious an obstacle to the descent ■the foetal head dunng parturitition, that craniotomy had been rendered :-.:essary; the anterior vaginal wall had been a good deal bruised, and I feared r'.t sloughing of it miglit take place ; hence I extracted the stone by the ;(inal method. I Ijithotomy is not so dangerous an operation in the female as in the male: death occasionally occui’s, especially in feeble children, from cystitis and i-itonitis, more particularly if the extraction of the stone have been tedious I difficult, the bladder being much manipulated. b Lithotrity in the female requires to be practised on the same principles in the male. The details of the operation differ, however, in some important fticulars. The chief obstacle in the jierformance of the operation in the lale, consists in the difficulty Avith Avhich the bladder retains urine or Avater t is injected into it. In consequence of this there is not only great difficulty seizing the stone, the bladder collapsing and falling into folds around it, but ) danger of injuring the mucous membrane Avith the lithotrite. In order ■-lause the bladder to retain the necessary quantity of urine, the pelvis must well tilted iij), and the urethra compressed against the lithotrite. It is Avell to dilate the uretlira before the introduction of the instrument, as the ontinence is thereby increased. The ordinaiy male lithotrite is not a very convenient instrument to use in female bladder, the handle being aAvkwardly long. This is especially the " Hence I have found it com’cnicnt to have a shortew e in female children. I VOL. II. 3 u