128 ANEURISM. from causes with which we ai-e unacquainted, render it less liable to coagulate than usual, and thus dispose to a return of the ])ulsation in the sac, which remains filled with iluid blood. The phenomenon under consideration has been noticed in all parts of the body after the performance of the Hunterian operation, though it occurs with different degrees of frequency after the ligature of different arteries, and is certainly of more common occurrence after opei’ations for carotid aneurism than for any other form of the disease. Thus, of 31 cases in which the carotid artery was tied for aneurism, I find that pulsation in the tumour continued or returned in 9 instances ; whereas of 92 cases of inguinal aneurism, in which the external iliac artery was ligatured, the pulsation recurred in 0 cases only; and in several of these it is interesting to note that there were two aneurismal sacs in the same limb—one in the groin, the other in the ham ; and that the pulsation, though permanently arrested in the popliteal, reem-red in the in- guinal aneurism. In the ham and axilla, pulsation occasionally though very rarely recurs. This difference in the frequency of the recurrence of pulsation in different aneurisms, is evidently owing to the different degrees of freedom of communication that exist between the sac and the collateral branches in various forms of the disease ; thus in a carotid aneurism, the im- pulse of the heart may at once be brought to bear upon the contents of the sac, through the medium of the circle of WiUis. But, in the case of inguinal, femoral, or popliteal aneurism, the anastomoses, consisting rather of the in- osculations of terminal branches than of open communications between large trunks, are less liable to transmit the blood in a pulsatory stream. For the same reason—the great freedom of the communication between the vessels of opposite sides—the pulsation has more frequently been found to continue un- interruptedly and distinctly, though reduced in force, after the ligature of the artery in carotid aneurisms, than in those in any other situation. The cases in which it returns after the cessation of a few hours only are perhaps as J frequent in the groin and ham, as in the neck. In those instances in wliich j the pulsation returns within the first twenty-fom* hom-s after the ligatm’e, it i usually ceases again in a few days, though it sometimes continues a week or % two. When it recurs at a later period, it is apt to last somewhat longer. I Compression antecedent to the ligature may so enlarge the collateral vessels as | to favour a continuance or return of pulsation. I have once known the pulsation continue, though very much lessened, in a pophteal aneurism, after ligature of the superficial femoral, in a case in which treatment by compression had unavailingly been tried for nearly three months. In another case, in which I tied the external iliac artery for popliteal aneurism, owing to the superficial femoral being too diseased to admit of a ligature, the pulsation ceased completely for a time as I was tightening the ligature, but then re- turned, and became very marked in a few hours. In this case compression had been unavailingly employed before the artery was tied. The 'prognosis of these cases is on the whole favourable, but few of them having eventually proved fatal. Of 2G patients in whom pulsation occuiTcd, I find that three died ; and in all of these the firtal result was occasioned by inflammation and sloughing of the sac. In all of the three instances, the pul- sation rccuiTcd within the first twenty-four hours. When it returns at a more advanced period, there is little risk to the patient, as it is usually readily amenable to proper treatment.