1171 JIISTOLOGY OF TUBERCULAR TESTIS Ji single cheesy mass, iu which softening may be taking place at Yarious inirts. The exact nature of the change that takes place in the production of the condition above described, has given rise to much difference of opinion ; some authors maintaining that the primary change consists in an overgrowth of the epithelium of the tubuli seminiferi and epididymis, which afterwards undergoes tatty degeneration ; and others asserting that the primary growth takes place l)etweeii the tubuli, and that the changes in the epithelium are secondary. The accom|)aiiying drawing (Fig. 974) represents a section of one of the small outlying nodules iu the body of the gland, as described above. It will be seen that the change consists chiefly in an accumulation of small round cells in a more or less perfect reticulate stroma between the tubules, sepa- rating them from each other. At the same time the Avails of the tubules have undergone a change, being infiltrated Avith cells in the same Avay as the sur- rounding parts. The tubules also are choked with epithelium, AA’liich in some Kig. 074.—Tubercular Testis, a. Tubuli seminiferi: h. Giant-cells (40 diam.) parts of the same testicle Avas found to be undergoing fatty degeneration. 'ToAvards the centre of the nodule the intertubidar groAvth also becomes caseous. Scattered through the neAV groAvth are many large masses of proto- plasm containing many nuclei, the so-called giant-cells. It is most probable, therefore, that the change commences in the iMiiphatic tissue iu the Avails of the duct of the epididymis and betAvecii the tubuli seminiferi, and giA’es rise to secondaiy proliferation of the epithelium; both the intertubular groAvth and the proliferated epithelium afterAvards undergoing fatty degeneration, and forming cheesy masses. Frofjnosis.—The prognosis of tubenmlar disease of the testis is extremely bad. Treatment is of little if any avail, and the patient almost invariably dies sooner or later of disease of the lungs, IVom general acute tuberculosis, or from exten.sion of the disease to the bladder, prostate, and even, in rare cases, the kidneys. Iu some cases, hoAvever, after the abscesses have buret, the 4 F 2