337 TREATMENT OF ACUTE ARTHRITIS. the hot iron may, if necessary, be repeated ; in this way the deep gnawing pain will nsiially be removed, and suppuration of the joint may be averted. For counter-irritants to be of any use, they must be employed before suppuration has set in ; it is only torturing the patient unnecessarily to have recourse to these agents when once pus has formed in the articulation. In order that full benefit should be derived from this plan of treatment, it must 1)C pei’severed in steadily for a considerable length of time, and should be con- joined with a moderately antiphlogistic and alterative treatment. With this new, the perchloride of mercury, in doses of from one-sixteenth to one-twelfth of a grain, may be advantageously given with the compound decoction of V sarsaparilla, or, if there be much debility, with the compound tincture of bark; .-good food and stimulants being conjoined with it, in proportion to the increase ’of the debility. As the inflammation about the joint subsides, a tonic plan of i ^'treatment on ordinary medical principles should be substituted for that which j bhad predously been employed. I During the subacute stage, if it be thought necessary to apply counter- I:; irritation, absolute rest of the joints of the lower limb may be obtained, I ' Without confining the patient to bed, by the use of Thomas’s hip or knee splint. (See Diseases of the Hip and Excision of the Knee.) If it be thought unnecessary to apply any counter-irritation, the inflamed joint may be efficiently steadied by the application of the starch- or plaster-bandage, the patient then being allowed to move about on crutches or in a chair. In disease of the joints of the foot, the patient may walk on a pin wooden leg resting on the bent knee. With respect bo the local treatment of the inflamed joint in the later stages of the disease when it has assumed a chronic form, it may be stated generally that so long as it is tender on pressure, applied perpendicularly or laterally, so long as there is any loosening of the ligaments, or pain induced by movement, fit must be kept absolutely at rest in splints or by a starched or plaster bandage. During this period great care must be taken to keep the joint in the position Frhich will be most useful to the patient in after-hfe, should it become stiff ; .he straight one for the knee and hip, and the semiflexed for the elbow. In naany cases it may be useful to strap the joint firmly, in the way recommended »y Scott. This plan of treatment consists in spreading on pieces of lint the itrong mercurial ointment, to every ounce of which a drachm of camphor has x;en hdded ; strips of soap-plaster spread upon leather are then cut of a j^roper ength and breadth, and the joint is firmly and accurately strapped up, the imb having previously been bandaged as high as the joint that is strapped. This dressing may be left on for a week or two, until it loosens or gives rise to rritation ; over the Avhole a starched bandage may be applied. In many -.^8 I have found it advantageous to strap up the joint with a plaster com- posed of equal parts of the cmplastruin ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, and the mplastrum .saponis or belladonnae. These applications not only fix the joint vnd promote the absorption of the inflammatory products within and around t, but by acting as gentle counter-irritants, remove the remains of the inflam- nation that may be going on within it. If recovery have left the joint ■tiffened without being actually ankyloscd, the natural movement must be restored by wann batliing, fomentation, friction, and passive motion. Warm vater, in any way applied, is particularly and, indeed, singularly useful in a '^ay diffieult of explanation in restoring the mobility of stiffened joints VOL. II. '