980 UJUNARV CALCULUS ANJ) LITHOTOMY. ])laccd in the wound, they will come into very close apposition just anterior to the prostate. In the old Marian operation, the rectum used to be very frequently cut, gas and fasces issuing from the wound. 5. Treatment of the Prostate.—As to the difference in this respect—?.r., dilatation in the median, section in the lateral operation—I believe it to be more imaginary than real. I think that it is very nearly the same in both operations when properly performed. All are agreed that in the lateral opera- tion but a limited incision should be made in the prostate and neck of the bladder, the opening being dilated with the finger, so as to avoid opening up the pelvic fascia. The dift’ereuce between an incision that opens the capsule of the prostate, and dilating this structure by the finger, is very great. The great ob}ect in lateral lithotomy is not to open up the pelvic fascia with the knife ; and it is difficult, if not impossible, to tear this with the finger. If we take an aponeurosis out of the body, it will be found to be very difficult to tear ; bub if touched ever so lightly with the knife, it separates at once. So, in the median operation, the prostate may be dilated to a considerable extent without opening its capsule. I have used the word “ dilate ; ” but dilatation appears to me to be an erroneous term. I believe that the prostate is not simply dilated, but lacerated : that there is an actual laceration of the sub- stance of the prostate, but not extending into or through its capsule. I have often examined the prostate in the dead subject, after it has been subjected to this process of “ dilatation,” and have always found its substance more or less torn. A laceration of the substance of the prostate, however, is of no con- sequence, and becomes dangerous only when it extends so far backwards as to tear the lateral ligament of the bladder, when it exposes the patient to the fatal accident of extravasation of urine and diffuse inflammation of the pelvic fascia. Now, in the lateral operation, in running the knife down the gi’oove of the staff, the Surgeon may readily, unless care be taken, and very often, I l)elieve, does actually and almost unavoidably go beyond the limits of the pros- tate, and thus exposes the patient to all these dangers. In the median this cannot be done, if the knife be not used after the urethra is opened, the pros- tate being dilated solely with the finger. So far as this point, then, is con- cerned, the median may be regarded as safer than the lateral operation, it being impossiUe to open up the recto-vesical fascia with the finger in the median, whilst it may be opened by the knife in the lateral. In fact, the neck of the bladder and the prostatic portion of the urethra are in the median operation placed very much in the position of the female urethra- when that is dilated for the extraction of a calculus ; being dilated to a great extent, and somewhat lacerated, but not torn through so as to admit urine into the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis; and in this I believe the great and essential superiority of the median over the lateral operation to consist. I 6. Manipulation of the Forceps and Extraction of the Stone. —In n the adult, the main difficulty of lithotomy does not lie in entering the bladder, (i but in the completion of the operation—the removal of the stone. And the difficulty and danger inci’ease in proportion to the size of the calculus ; the t tissues between the neck of the bladder and the perineal integuments must either be widely cut or extensively torn and bruised to allow the passage of a large stone. No amount of simple dilatation of which tliese tissues arc susceptible can make a passage through them that will allow the extraction 0