f 995 METHODS OF SEIZING THE STONE. • e stone not readily seized. There is no objection, however, to doing- so while . le patient is under the influence of an ana3sthetic. In seizing- the calculus, a ,ood deal of tact is required. There are two ways of seizing the stone. Brodie ecominends that it should be done by pushing-the female hlade of the lithotritc gainst the inferior fundus of the bladder, pressing gently down with it so as D make a conical depression in this situation, and then inclining the beak owards the stone, drawing back the male blade with the thumb (Fio-. 881) ; •ith a slight shake or jerk, the Surgeon then tries to get the calculus^etween le blades at the same time that the male branch is being pushed forwards to “‘'^nceuvre the female blade should be moved as little as r f S f pressing the thumb upon the half- may often be re,-,I eLm attempt, but ill other cases it is not grasped until after Teial attempts have been made to fix it; the calculus, especially if round '^‘^"ff'"yf™™i«‘?7on thebIadffi of the instrument, and being merely I pcd by them. C male adopted another procedure (Fig. 882). In passing Fig. 8S2.—Civiale-8 iletliod of Seizing the Stone heliind the Prostate. hthotnte, he felt where the stone lay; he then very gently turned the b-ak the instrument towards the opposite side of the bladder, opened the blades I then, turning them over towards the stone, seized it between the open Mes. In these manoeuvres, all rough handling must be most carefiillv ^ "istrument should be turned about as little as possible It le Than 1 operation, if there be any difficulty hi seizing the e, than to pereevere in repeated and fruitless attempts, l^y which the Ider may be severely injured. Bather than do this, the piltient shmild b^^ tlni f the influence of an amesthetic, to get up and move -at for a few minutes, when the position of the stone may be so far altered - it will admit of being seized. cuueiea • Breaking the Stone.—When the stone has been seized it is o-entlv .d m the g^isp of the lithotrite, so as to be placed about the middle of the der, and it is then crushed. The important step of the operation like ill others, requires to be deliberately and carefully done (Fi 8^8 T >ale’.s or Thompson’s improved lithotrite be used ^1^00; fZf n readily be crushed by the pressure of the hand alone without thT acS J 3 8 2