ACUTE AND CHRONIC CYSTITIS. 103 r (uence of the presence of decomposing urine in the cavity of the bladder. In i I ihe mucous membrane, collections of pus may be Ibund iii the substance of ihe wall of the bladder, and not uiifre([uently the peritoneum is implicated and i’l^ itVuse peritonitis set up. Occasionally the bladder has been perforated, and Iitifiltration of urine in the deej) areolar tissue of the pelvis may be met with, 'cry commonly the mischief has e.xtcnded to the ureters and kidneys. Treatment.—The fii-st step in the treatment is, if possible, to render the [: trine less irritatin<^ by diluting it by the free administration of barley-water >r mucilaginous drinks, and by giving liquor potassm or bicarbonate of potash ■ n doses sufficient to neutralize it. The patient must be confined to bed, and lot fomentations or poultices applied over the lower part of the belly. Long- •ontimied hot hip-baths usually gi\'e great relief. To these means may be dded the administration of henbane in full doses and morphia suppositories. f'So specific medicines are of any use. No instruments should be used during ;«.;cute cystitis if they can possibly be avoided ; but should the urine become bill, an attempt may bo made to w'ash out the bladder, as the mechanical rritation of the catheter is a less evil than an accumulation of putrid mucus find urine. If it be necessary to do this, great gentleness must be used, the quantity of fluid injected being limited to about an ounce. The diet must ^>e carcfidly regulated ; no salt or spiced food must be allowed. As a rule a. ■oure milk diet will be found the best. (-'rnioxic Cystitis.—Chronic cystitis is by far the most common morbid :ondition of the bladder. It may follow acute inflammation, the intensity of he process gradually subsiding, or it may from the first be chronic. It is met vith in all eases of stoue in the bladder after the disease has existed for a certain time ; in all old and tight strictures ; and it is the inevitable conse- • ;ome cases it is apparently of gouty origin ; but perhaps the most persistent brm is that which sometimes follows gonorrhoea, which may be acquired in 1 .'oiith, and lead to life-long misery. Pathological Changes.—On examining the bladder of a patient who has IJ^mflered from chronic cystitis, the mucous membrane vill usually be found to )c of a dark grey or slate colour. As in most cases there has been some exacerbation of the condition immediately before death, dark red or purple oatches are usually seen in various parts, especially on the summits of the Tigie. Dilated and tortuous veins commonly ramify on the surface, the flood in which is usually blackened by the contact of the decomposing urine after death. The mucous membrane is tougher and thicker than j^natui-al, and nut uncommonly there is distinct thickening and induration of the submucous tissue. Ulceration of the mucous membrane is occasionallv inet with. The muscular coat of the bladder is seldom unaltered, as in the i Lgreat majority of cases chronic cystitis is associated with conditions which interfere with free micturition. If the obstruction has been of such a kind that no amount of increased force could have emptied the bladder, as in many fcf''ascs of enlarged prostate, the bladder is dilated, and its muscular coat may be : thinned and atrophied with an excess of fibroid tissue between the muscular tf elements. In cases of stricture of the urethra, and other obstructions which <‘an be overcome by increased force, the bladder is usually contracted, and its muscular wall greatly hyjiertrophied and thickened. The hypertrophied lasci- culi of muscular tissue form folds or ridges beneath the mucous membrane, ‘ having iiTegidar de])ressions between them, so us to cause the interior oj‘ the