DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. io6o would be found to begin in undue or irregnilar sexual or erotic exeitenient, by which the genital organs have been injuriously over-stimulated. Symptoms.—The symptoms of enlarged prostate, arise primarily from the mechanical obstacle olfered to the escape of the urine. The first symptoms usually consist in the feeling of a necessity to strain slightly before the urine will flow ; and then, after the bladder lias been apparently emjitied, in the involuntary escape of a small quantity of urine. The patient also finds that he is much longer than usual in emptying the bladder; for, though the stream flows freely enough so soon as it has once begun to escape, yet it cannot be properly projected, the viscus having, to a certain extent, lost its tonicity. It commonly happens that the more he strains the less readily will the urine come away, whereas when he remains quiet, it will usually flow with more freedom. This is especially the case in pedunculated enlargements of the middle lobe. About this time frequency of micturition usually becomes a marked feature, especially at night. In fact, the great majority of patients apply to the Surgeon, not on account of diffrculty in passing water, but because they are called upon to perform the act of micturition too frequently. This condition may gTadually increase till it amounts to actual dribbling. The frequent discharge of a small quantity of urine may lead the incautious Surgeon to suppose that the patient is affected Avith true incontinence of urine or with irritability of the bladder. This error may always be guarded against by careful examination of the pubic region by percussion and palpation. Dulness will often be found extending half-way to the umbilicus, and tlie tense distended bladder may be readily felt above the pubes. The symptoms may for a long tune remain limited to frequency of mictu- rition with some difficulty in the act. The urine remains acid and normal in every respect, and the patient suffers but little, if at all, in his general health. The condition is, however, always one of considerable danger. The over-dis- tended bladder is always prone to slight attacks of cystitis from exposure to cold or other causes. ■ The urine then becomes cloudy from excess of mucus, and often acquires an offensive fishy smell, while still remaining acid. The mucus accumulates in the pouch behind the enlarged prostate, and is with difficulty expelled. Under these conditions ammoniacal decomposition may readily take place. This may occur without the passage of instruments, but in a considerable proportion of cases is not noticed before the use of the catheter has been commenced. Should it happen, the cystitis becomes more acute, and the symptoms of septic poisoning—febrile disturbance, great de- pression, brown tongue, nausea, delirium, &c.—may set in and terminate fatally, when septic inflammation of the kidneys, by extension up the ureter, will usually be found to have been the immediate cause of death. Complete Retention of Urine from Enlarged Prostate is a common complication of the disease. It may arise in a patient who has not been able to empty his bladder for some time, and is little more than an aggravation of his usual condition, or it may occur in an old man whose prostate is consider- ably enlarged, but who, under ordinary circumstances, gets rid of his urine without difficulty. In the latter case it is due to congestion and swelling of the diseased gland, usually induced by exposure to cold, or alcoholic or venema excesses. It is especially apt to occur after drinking the sour, bad AAiues usually provided at public dinners. Diagnosis.—The exact condition of the enlarged prostate can be ascertained-