1074 DISEASES OF THE VRETJIRA. ciibcbs will be found to cure the patient more readily than copaiba, or rather niost successfully if given in combination with it. An excellent plan is to put almut half an ounce of powdered cubebs into a mortar, and to rul> it up with as much copaiba as Avill form a stiff paste, of which the patient should take a drachm as a bolus thrice daily. The effects of this electuary are often most striking ; but it can be used only in the constitutions indicated, and after the more active inflammatory symptoms have subsided. Copaiba in many sub- jects brings out a red, raised rash, most marked on the backs of the hands and feet, but sometimes extending over the vdiole body. It is accompanied by considerable itching and often by some rise of temperature. Hill states that a similar eruption, but more pai^ular in character, may follow the administra- tion of cubebs. Haematuria has been occasionally observed as the result of large doses of copaiba. Oil of yellow sandal wood may sometimes be employed with advantage, though its action is somewhat uncertain. It may be given in capsules in doses not exceeding twenty minims three times a day, or the following formula wiU be found useful ; oil of sandal wood, 5!], tragacanth in powder 5ss., water to 3viij ; one ounce to be taken three times a day. It is during the third stage of gonorrhoea that Injections may advan- tageously be used. Much and very unfounded prejudice exists against their use in the minds of many ; but surely it is as safe to apply proper local applications to an inflamed urethra as it is to an inflamed conjunctiva ; and the bad conse- quences, such as strictiu’e and inflamed testicle, which have sometimes been referred to their use, have either been due rather to the long continuance and to the severity of the disease itself than to the remedies employed, or to their application at too early a stage or of too great a strength. It is in long- standing cases of gonorrhoea, in which the discharge continues for months or years, that strictm’e follows, not in cases of ordinary duration ; and it is the result of the chronic inflammatory thickening of the mucous membrane, and has no more to do with the injections than with the copaiba or salines Avhich the patient may have taken. As the ardor urinm subsides, emollient and slightly astringent injections may be used. The best is perhaps chloride of zinc of the strength of two grains to twelve ounces of water, to which two drachms of extract of belladonna may be added. This injection may be used ft’equently during the day. Acetate of lead, from one to two grains to the ounce of water, is often useful. If this induce irritation, a few’ grains of the watery extract of opium may advantgigeously be added. As the disease subsides, a stronger astringent is required, and then one or two grains of the acetate of zinc may be added to each ounce of the injection ; or a weak solution of sulphate may be employed, gr. ij to each ounce of water ; or an injection of gr. \ of the nitrate of silver to the ounce may be used. During the whole of this stage, the diet and habits of life must be carefully regulated, and all stimu- lants interdicted. The injections should be discontinued as soon as the discharge has ceased ; unless this be done, they may re-induce it. The mode of injection is of importance. A glass syringe should always be used, with a smooth rounded nozzle. The patient siHing on the edge of the chair and holding up the penis, should carefully insert the end of the syringe between the lips of the urethra, and then slowly throw in the injection as far as it Avill go. Although the inflammation is usually at first confined to the anterior portion of the urethra, yet it in most cases extends to the bulb, au the injection should be applied to the vvhole length of the inflamed mucous