DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. io88 stances, Tn its dovelopnicnt it shows the tendency to eontraction wliieli lorms the characteristic feature of all fibrous tissue produced as a consequence uf inflammation, and thus leads to a narrowing of tlic canal it surrounds. Ti^ rxmses of stricture arc, 1. Clironic inflammation of Ijie mucous mendji-aiie, iv- sulbing fi'om gonorrlifca. Itepcated gonorrlioeas and long-continued gleets aix* by far the most fertile causes of this disease. 'J'he long continuance of the inflammation is more to be dreaded than its intensity in occasioning this mis- chief ; hence it is of great importance not to allow gleets to run on indefinitely, as they will almost to a certainty be followed by constriction of some poilion’ of the urethra. 2. The healing of an intra-urethral chancre always gives rise to a stricture'. This is met with within an inch of the orifice, and is a comparatively rare form of the disease. 3. The most inveterate form of stric- ture arises from transverse laceration of the urethra from blows or kicks in the perinmum healing by a contracted scar. Severe contusions of other parts of the canal may in the same way cause narrowing of its calibre. A more rare cause is the injury done to the urethra of a child by the lodgmeiit (jf a calculus, or in the effort to extract it. Age.—Stricture of the urethra may be met with at any age after puberty. The causes that usually give rise to it seldom come into o])eration, however, before the adult age ; hence strictures are not very common before 26 years of age. Between that period and the age of 40 they most commonly originate, and may then continue for an indefinite period. The earliest age at which I have seen true organic stricture of the urethra has been in a boy 14 years old, when it had already existed for more than 12 months ; it was situated one and a half inch from the meatus, and was so tight as only to admit of No. 1 catheter. It was complicated with and had given rise to a fistula in periufeo, through which the greater part of the urine escaped. The boy in whom it occurred could give no explanation of its occurrence, but it was j)robably trau- matic. His attention was first directed to it by a sudden attack of retention. The stricture was hard and gristly, about half an inch long, and required urethrotomy for its relief. There was no calculus. Seat.—The seat of organic stricture varies considerably ; indeed, any portion of the urethra may be affected by it, except the prostatic. It was at one time believed that the membranous portion of the canal was the most frequently affected by this disease. This, however, there can be little doubt, is an erro- neous opinion. H. Smith has examined 98 specimens of stricture contained in the different London museums ; of these he found only 21 seated in the membranous portion of the urethra, whilst 77 were anterior to the triangular ligament; the majority of these being either in the bulbous portion of the m*ethra, or a little in advance of this. Sir H. Thompson, in his excellent work on Stricinre, states that, in an examination of 320 strictures, he found 215 at the junction of the spongy and membranous portions of the urethra; oT in the spongy portion, from an inch in fi’ont of its commencemeut to within two inches and a half of the external meatus ; and 54 at the external orifice, or within two inches and a half of it. The part most frequently affected is the first inch of the spongy portion ; in the membranous portion, stricture is extremely rare, being almost invariably of traumatic origin when situated in this part. He says also, “ I may confidently assert that there is not a single case of stricture in the prostatic portion of the urethra to be iound in any one of the public museums of London, Edinburgh, or Paris.” Occasionally stric-