DISFASFS OF TUB TONGUE—MACRO-GLOSSIA. 629 CHAPTER LVIIL DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Tongue-tie.—Infants and even adults are said to be tongue-tied, when the firainum lingiue is shorter than usual, causing the end of the tongue to be slightly bifid, depressed, and fixed, so that it cannot be protruded beyond the incisoi-s. If this malformation be considerable, suckling and distinct articula tion may be interfered Avith ; and then division of the fold becomes necessary, Avhich may readily be done by snipping it across with a pair of round-ended scissors. In this operation, the risk of wounding the ranine arteries, that is sometimes spoken of, may be avoided by keeping the ' point of the scissors downwards towards the floor of the mouth. Hypertrophy and Prolapsus op the Tongue or Macro-glossia is occasionally met Avith, either as a congenital or acquired condition. Of 113 cases collected by A. E. Barker, in only 39 was it apparently acquired, and in most of these it appeared at a very early age. In this condition, the tongue lolls out of the mouth with constant di’ibbling of saliva, is greatly swollen, of a purplish colour, but someAvhat dry. If the swelling have existed for a long time, it may give rise to deformity of the teeth, and of the alveolus of the loAver jaw, Avhich is pushed forwards. The protruded tongue is liable to attacks of sub-acute inflammation, which lead to its still further increasing in size. The Pathology of this condition was first clearly pointed out by VirchoAV. There is a great over-gi’owth of the interstitial connec- tive-tissue of the tongue, and in this tissue are found dilated lymphatic vessels of con- siderable size, and spaces filled Avith lymphoid cells. It presents, therefore, a close analogy to elephantiasis. In many cases the dilated lymphatics form so important an element in the new tissue, that the disease has been tenned by some Avriters “lymphangioma of the tongue.” In the Treatment of this disease pressure has been attempted by strapping the protruding part, but without benefit. Excision of a portion of the tongue by the knife, scissors or ecraseur is the only efficient remedy for the disease. In some cases the removal of a. V-shaped piece Avill give the best result. This operation Avas successfully per- formed by 0. Heath in the case from Avhich the accompanying draAvino- -was taken (Fig. 723).