I 566 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AXD KECK. trapezius, gro\viiii>- apparently from the sul)staiice of the complexus or spleniiis capitis muscles, and lyin>>- close upon the cervical spine and the occipital bone. Solid Tumours of the Neck.—Fatty tumours and the various forms of sarcoma, may occur in the subcutaneous tissue and fascia of the neck as else- where, but they presen t nothing special. The neck is the favourite seat of lym- phadcnoma, the tumours in this situation often reaching an enormous size, so as to endanger life by their ])ressure. In the submaxillary region, tumours are occasionally met with similar in character to the parotid tumour already described. The submaxillary gland itself is rarely the seat of disease. Tumours in these situations may occasionally attain a considerable size, and if beneath the fascia, may extend deeply. In some cases when the integu- ments and superficial structures covering the growth are divided, it may l>e isolated with sufficient facility, its fixity being in a great measure due to its being bound down by the investing fascia rather than to its having contracted deep adhesions. Occasionally, though rarely, a slowly-growing simple tumour develops deeply in the anterior triangle of the neck, l}dng between the stemo- mastoid, the trachea, and the pharynx, possibly even under the carotid sheath, with the artery pushed on one side, or even running over the anterior convexity of the growth. In such cases, the question of removal requires to be ap- proached with the utmost caution. If the tumoiu be movable above the vessels, it may generally be taken out; if it lie below the sheath, even though not fixed to the spine, its extirpation is not practicable. Before deteraiining upon the removal of a tumour situated in one of the triangles of the neck, it is indeed always very necessary that a diagnosis of its nature be effected, and that some opinion be formed of the probable extent of its deep attachments. The first point to ascertain is whether it be simple or mahgnant. If simple, it will usually have been many years in growing; it will be hard but not stony, lobulated or somewhat square-shaped ; the patient’s general health being good. It will generally be found to be movable, though not perhaps to any great extent, and will present no sign of incorporation with neighbom’ing structures. If it be superficial, the fibres of the platysma will not appear to spread over it, and the steriio-mastoid muscle may be traced to one side of or below it. In such circumstances, removal of the tumour may be undertaken by any Surgeon possessing a fair share of anatomical knowledge and manual skill, with every prospect of success. But if the tumour be of stony hardness, have implicated the skin, and be immovable, the whole head being moved on any attempt at drawing it aside, if it be ill-defined under the jaw and ear, or rapidly growing, soft and pulpy to the feel, deeply-seated under the angle of the jaw, evidently below the platysma and deep fascia of the neck, and possibly beneath the sterno-mastoid, then no attempt at extirpation should be under- taken, as the mass could either not be removed with safety, or, if it were by any possibility extirpated, the already existing contamination of the neighbour- ing parts would certainly lead to a speedy recLirrence of the disease. In removing siibmaxiilary tumours, a free superficial incision nearly parallel to the margin of the lower jaw, but below this, will usually allow ready extirpation of the mass. In these operations the facial artery is generally sufficiently under cover of the bone to escape injury, but there may be, and usually is, free venous hmmorrhage. Congenital Tumour or Indirration of the Sterno-mastoid. Hiese terms are applied to a diffuse thickening and induration of the sterno-mastoid,