.iro.v}' OF THE BLADDER. 1039 i I ! |i ith paralysis of tho bladder, such as occurs iu cases of injury or disease of I le spinal cord. In atony the nervous supply is unimpaired, it is the muscu- 1 |iir tissue that is at fault. The muscular tissue of the bladder may be im- 1 jvaired from several causes. By far the most common is the chronic strain to ;j)!diich it is e.xposed in over-distension of tho bladder from mechanical obstruc- j^|iion at its neck arising from enlai’gement of the prostate. In this condition, ■ the dilated bladder be examined microscopically, its walls will be found to ontain a great excess of somewhat dense fibroid tissue, amongst which '0 scattered })atches of muscular tissue. ^1 In some rare cases atony of the bladder may result from a single prolonged ' oluntary or involuntary over-distension. In such cases the structural changes list described would of course not be present. Besides these, there is another variety of atony of the bladder commonly net with iu early middle life, though it may occur at any age. In all the cases II which I have seen this form of atony it has been the consequence either of :,'onorrheal cystitis or of cystitis following lithotrity. It may lead to partial ■>r complete retention. It is often, but not always, associated with vesical ,::ataiTh and fetid urine. This condition, when once it has become chronic, is, ’ believe, incurable. In it structural changes take place in the bladder con- •nquent upon the extension of the chronic inflammatory process from the mucous membrane to the submucous tissue and muscular coat. Its Avails ’lecome thickened, rugged and pouched. The bladder is able neither to- ’etain the normal amount of urine, nor completely to empty itself. The r-'etained urine usually undergoes decomposition, and this condition is A’ery apt :o end in fatal disease of the kidneys. Excluding all these conditions there is yet another form of atony of the eladder AA'hich may bo regarded as the most typical variety. It is essentially ii condition of old age, and appears to be a senile degenerative change analogous t :o those of the heart and other organs so commonly met vitli at that time of life. Such a change occurring in a bladder causes its distension from slight ■causes of obstruction which could be readily overcome by the healthy organ of >A younger man. Thus, we not unfrequently see a dilated atonic bladder occurring as the result of stricture of the urethra in an old man, instead of the ontracted hypertrophied organ commonly met Avith as the result of this, idiscase. A strong bladder may overcome a moderate amount of obstruction to the escape of the urine—an atonic bladder utterly fails to do so. Thus, we v3ee that a condition of atony of the bladder may occur in an otherwise healthy man from the obstruction of prostatic disease, while, on the other hand, a degree of obstruction that Avould be harmless to a healthy man may cause serious symptoms in one Avhose bladder is atonic to begin Avith. It is difficult to iletemiine in most cases Avhich is to be regarded as the primary condition. 'Tlie fact that atony of the bladder is rarely met Avith in women AA’ould suggest That in the gi’cat majority of cases mechanical obstruction from enlargement of the prostate is to be regarded as the primary fiictor in the production of tthe disease. Eijmptoms.—'When this condition comes on sloAvlyas the result of adA’aiicing 'years, the patient usually finds that tho urine escapes in a dribbling manner ; that there is some difficulty, and at last an impossibility, iu emptying the bladder completely ; that there is not that forcible ejection of the last drops ' of urine that is characteristic of a healthy tone in the organ ; at the same