LIGATUEE OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 197 dark. To overcome this dihicidty, Cooper removed the inner end of the clavicle and part of the sternnm in both his cases, and should the operation be repeated it is jn-obable that this would be the safest plan of exposing the vessel ; at any rate the operator should be prepared to adopt it as an extension of the proceeding first described if necessary. Even when the difficulties of exposing the artery have been surmounted, and it has been exposed, its coats may be found so diseased, or its calibre so increased, that it may be undesirable or impossible to pass a ligature round it. The failure in deligating the artery would, however, as we shall immediately see, appear to be less disastrous in its consequences than success in the attempt; for of the three cases that have just been referred to, in which this attempt was made and did not succeed, one was cured of the disease, the artery being obliterated by thrombosis, consequent upon inflammation of its coats, set up by the manipulation during the operation ; and in another. Key’s patient, an attempt to set np this process appears to have been made, the tumour becoming solid and ceasing to pulsate ; whereas, in every case but one in which the vessel was ligatured, a fatal result speedily ensued. The results of the ligature of the vessel are then in the highest degree dis- couraging ; for of the sixteen cases in the table in which it has been done, only one has recovered. The only successful case, that in which Smyth of New Orleans was the operator, is one of the most remarkable on record, but in reality affords no evidence as to the possibility of safely ligaturing the brachio- cephalic trunk. For in this case the carotid w'as also tied so as to stop the regurgitant flow of blood ; yet, notwithstanding this precaution, on the four- teenth day severe hsemori’hage to syncope occurred. This hmmorrhage recurred at intervals for a period of thirty-seven days, and was temporarily arrested by filling the wound with shot, till, on the fifty-first day after the operation, a “ ten-ific ” hmmorrhage took place, stopped by syncope. As this bleeding came from the distal side and from the subclavian artery, the vertebral was tied, with perfect success—no bleeding recurring. This fact is of the utmost surgical value ; it shows that the secondary hminorrhage, which may be looked upon almost as the necessary sequence of the ligature of the in- nominate artery, may l)e an’ested and the patient’s life saved by the ligature of the principal arterial branch that communicates Avith and that carries regur- gitant blood into the distal end of the artery which was originally ligatured. This fact is entirely new in operative surgery ; and the establishment of it, as well as the skill and courage that were displayed in the operative procedures required in, and the general management of this case, reflect the highest credit on 8myth. I am indebted to him for the further history of this unique case. After ten years of good health, in Avhich the patient was able to follow his employment as a ship’s steAvard, the pulsation returned and the tumour reached a size larger than before. Thinking it might be fed by the internal mammary, Hmyth ligatured that vessel, but Avithout any result. About six months after an abscess formed over the sac, and the aneurism became diffused into it, and as a last effort to saA'c the patient’s life, Smyth performed the heroic operation of laying o])en the sac. The hmmorrhage Avas profuse, and the openings of the vessel into the sac could not be seen, so that the operator had to content him- self with plugging the Avound. The patient died a fcAV days after. The post mortem examination shoAved that the circulation had been carried on chiefly by