DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 66S Surgeon, facing- the light, arranges the reflector in such a Avay that, whilst l)oth he and tlie patient are in easy positions, a Avell defined circle of light covers the jDatient’s month, if, as in many arrangements, the reflector he over one eye of the Surgeon, he must so place it that lie sees clearly through the hole in the centre, and can consequently employ both eyes in examining the throat. The patient now having the head very slightly inclined hackwai-d, opens his month and puts out his tongue. The Surgeon grasps the tip of the tongue gently between the fore-finger and thumb of his left hand, covei'cd by a cloth or pocket-handkerchief. He must be careful not to drag on the tongue, hut merely to hold it steady ; and this is best accomplished by resting the fore- finger on the patient’s chin. He now takes the small iniiTor and warns it over the lamp, so that the patient’s breath may not condense on it and obscui'e the image of the larynx. Having warmed it till he sees the cloud of condensed moisture from the lamp disappear, he tests it against his own cheek to feel that it is not too hot, and then introduces it in the following way. The handle being held like a pen, and rather to the left side of the patient’s mouth, the mirror is passed in carefully, having its surface parallel to the dorsum of the tongue, until the tip of the uvula rests on its back, and is pushed slightly backwards and upwards by it. Care must be taken, in doing this, that the reflecting surface does not touch the tongue, and so become dirtied, and that the mirror is not passed so far as to touch the back of the pharynx, which in most patients would cause an effort at swallowing. The mirror being in the position above described, the Surgeon will, if he see any- thing, view the back of the pharynx reflected on its surface ; but, by gently and steadily raising his hand, so as to render the angle formed by the surface of the mirror with the patient’s body about half a right angle, he will biing the opening of the glottis into view. By raising the hand still a little further, he can examine the epiglottis and the root of the tongue. It must be remembered that the image thus produced is reversed in the antero-posterior direction, the parts that appear anterior on the mirror being really posterior; while in the transverse direction there is no reversal. When the Surgeon requires both hands, as in the application of caustics or in the removal of gTowths or foreign bodies, the patient must be made to hold his own tongue, or it must be held by an assistant. The Surgeon then holds the small mirror in his left hand, and the instrument he is using in the throat in his right. Sometimes all view of the larynx is obscured by the patient obstinately arching the tongue in the mouth. It must then be held down by a spatula. In some patients, the fauces are so irritable that the slightest touch causes violent retching. This may be allayed by sucking ice for a short time before the laryngoscope is employed. The administration of bromide of potassium for a few days in full doses is said to diminish the sensibility of tlie fauces, but its action is not certain. Laryngitis.—Inflammation of the larynx occurs both in adults and children, though more commonly in the former, from exposure to cold, to the infection of erysipelas, and various other causes. It differs essentially from the croup of children, Avhich is attended by an albuminous exudation, and spreads downwards into the bronchi; whilst in laryngitis there is no such effusion, and the disease is confined to the larynx itself. Laryngitis may not only be of an acute or a chronic kind, but the acute form likewise presents two distinct varieties, according to the parts affected, the cause from