466 DISEASE OF THE If IP-JO I NT. should be examined, and any carious parts gouged out. Tlie acetabulum must||| then he examined, and any rough or necrosed bone lying at its edge should be) gouged away. In cases in which the situation and extent of the sinuses leave the Surgeoi: a free choice for the situation of his incision, the plan recommended by Sayre) will be found to give excellent results. A semilunar incision is made with its| concavity forwards, commencing above the trochanter major midway betweenl it and the crest of the ilium and carried downwards behind the bone. Thei first incision must go directly down to the bone through the periosteum. The soft parts are then pulled forwards, and the periosteum divided by means of a small but strong curved bistoury as far as possible round the bone below the trochanter, in a direction at right angles to the lower part of the first incision. The Surgeon then peels the periosteum with the muscles attached to the trochanter off the bone with a strong periosteal elevator. The joint is then thoroughly opened, and the head of the bone turned out by which the periosteum is peeled off from the inner side ; lastly, the bone is sawn through above the trochanter minor. By saving the periosteum, Sayre states that he obtains more perfect repair with less shortening, and a stronger and more movable joint. In some cases the head of the femur may be very conveniently excised by an anterior incision, as recommended by R. W. Parker. The incision should be carried through the interval between the Tensor vaginm femoris and the Sartorius. The finger being introduced into the wound passes directly backwards past the anterior border of the gluteus medius and gluteus 1 minimus, and external to the head of the rectus, and thus reaches the neck oD the femur. As this is the direction taken by the abscess in a large proportio of cases, no cutting is required after the interval between the sartorius and th tensor vaginm has been opened. The neck of the bone may then be sawi through with an Adams’s saw (Fig. 598), and the head removed with seques- trum forcej)s. This method is adapted to those cases only in which the head \ of the bone is alone diseased, and it is not necessary to remove the trochanter and more especially to those in which an abscess is pointing in the situation of the incision. Experience has shown that the wound drains fairly well in most cases, but should there be any accumulation of discharges, an opening can be made behind and a drainage-tube inserted, the anterior wound being allowec to close. No muscles or other important structures are divided in the opera- tion. It should never be attempted when the acetabulum is perforated, as it does not provide efficient drainage for an intra-pelvic abscess, and it is not advisable when the head is considerably displaced backwards on the dorsum ilii In sawing the bone in excision of the hip the ingenious instrument invented by Gowan of Guy’s Hospital Avill be found very useful in some cases (Fig. 591). In the acetabular form of the disease, where large portions of the pelvic bones require removal, the early stages of the operation require to be con- ducted in the way just described ; the incisions, however, being made more : freely, but not carried so far forwards as to endanger the anterior crural, or sc far back as to wound the sciatic nerve. After the removal of the head of the thigh-bone, all loose necrosed pieces are to be taken out, and then, by mean of ordinary cutting or gouge-forceps, the acetabulum and other carious osseou structures arc cut away piecemeal. Those portions of bone which hav necrosed arc usually lying loose, or else may generally be readily separate