UlUNARY CALCULUS AND LlTllOTRLTY. ioi8 tiitioiial treatment atla])ted to the particular diathesis, after tlie removal of the calculus from the bladder. Itecurrence of calculus from the descent of a new stone from the kidney every now and then occurs, and is especially liable to Ije met with in those cases in Avhich the primaiy calculi ai'C multiple and small. In these cases, the relapse may take place very shortly after the first o])eration, and Avill be preceded by the usual symptoms of the descent of a stone from the kidney. Kelapse from the retention of a fragment which serves as the nucleus of another stone, will undoubtedly occasionally occur, although its occuiTence is fairly attributable to want of due care on the part of the Surgeon. It is apt to happen more frequently after lithotrity than after lithotomy, and it is pro- bably to this cause chiefly that we must refer the greater liability to relapse after the crushing than the cutting operation. But it may happen after lithotomy, that a fragment is left behind when the stone has been broken during extraction, and the bladder not thoroughly washed out. But even in this case, the bit of stone will usually be carried out of the wound by the flow of urine through it. Recurrence from the formation of a phosphatic calculus in the bladder, as the result of chronic cystitis with decomposition of the mane may occur occa- sionally after lithotomy, but is much more common after lithotrity. In these cases a lithotrite must be passed, and the soft mass crushed up and washed out with a catheter and evacuator. The patient must be taught to wash his own bladder out regularly every day with a dilute acid solution, to which some quinine may be added. I have lately had under my care a patient eighty years of age, on Avlioin I performed lithotrity for a uric acid calculus about five years ago, and from whom I ha^n removed large phosphatic concretions more than a dozen times since. At the present time a year has elapsed since the last operation, and no neAV formation has taken place. On some occasions the mass measured over an inch and a half in diameter, yet under angesthetics it was broken up and washed out with Bigelow’s ajAparatus Avithout the slightest irritation, the j)atient usually returning to the country on the second day after the operation. Phosphatic deposit may take place also in the track of a partially healed lithotomy-Avound, forming a crust on its surface. I haA'e Imown such a deposit to form in the perinmum, when the Avound had degenerated into a sinus. According to 0. Williams, the relapses in the Norwich Hospital are 27 in 1015 operations, or 1 in 36, or in 935 lithotomies 1 in 33. Lithotomy was performed a second time in 24 patients ; a third time in 3 ; and a fourth time in 1. TAventy-three Avere cured, 5 died. All the patients AA'ere males. The registers of the Louisville Hospital give 1 relapse in 116 cases of lithotomy; and according to Civiale the return of calculus after lithotomy AA'as in Bavaria 1 in 32, in Bohemia 1 in 46, in Dalmatia 1 in 43, and in France 1 in 74. After lithotrity, relapse is more common ; although it is probably less frequent noAV than formei’ly, and will become less frequent as the details of the operation come to be better understood, and more carefully practised. In the ])ractice of Civiale it occurred about once in every tenth case. But this estimate, high as it is, falls beloAV Avhat happened formerly in surgical prac- tice. CiA’iale stated that, of 36 priA'ate patients on Avhom he operated in 1H60, 10 had previously been operated on, the stone IniA'ing reappeiired. This