L YMPHA DENITIS—S YMPTOMS A ND TEE A TALENT. 47 strumous eulargemeub, and tubercular disease. Chronic inflammation of tlie glands is commonly looked upon as the most marked cliaracteristic of the strumous diathesis, and the relation of the process to tubercle has been already sufficiently discussed. These changes occur principally in children and young people, and most frequently in the neck, especially in the submaxillary glands and the glandulm concatenate, and sometimes in the axillary and inguinal glands. The glands slowly increase in size, at first remaining clearly defined and distinct from each other. They may after a time cease to enlarge, and remain permanently without further change, but more commonly after con- tinuing in this state for months or years they soften. The inflammation then extends to the surrounding tissues, and the glands become adlierent to neighbouring parts, and finally to the skin. Several glands may thus become fused together, forming a large indurated and nodulated tumour. Suppuration takes place slowly, and the skin becomes thin, blue, and undermined. Finally, it gives way by a small opening, and curdy imhealthy pus is discharged, mixed with the debris from the softened cheesy matter from the gland. The dis- charge may continue for weeks or months, being kept up partly by the gradual expulsion of the remains of the degenerated gland, and partly by the thinned and undermined skin being too feeble to take any part in healthy repair. The opening may close for a time, bursting open and discharging again at intervals. In other cases the thinned skin perishes, and the remains of the gland may be exposed as a reddish-grey or fleshy mass protruding in the midst of the sore. When these sores finally heal, they leave thin blue cicatrices, finally forming irregular puckered scars. Treatmext.—The local treatment of inflamed lymphatic glands varies according to the variety of the process. In all forms the local irritation to which the inflammation is due must be removed if possible. In acute, lym- phadenitis the application of glycerine and extract of belladonna in equal parts, and hot fomentations may prevent suppuration. In the sulacute con- dition, spirit lotions containing iodide of potassium will sometimes subdue the inflammation and take down the swelling. If an abscess form, it must be freely opened and the part dressed with some antiseptic application. The sinuses which are often left when the abscess is imperfectly opened, or allowed to discharge by itself, require to be treated by stimulating applications, espe- cially the nitrate of silver ; but very commonly they will not heal unless they are laid open and dressed from the bottom. Chronic or Scrofulous Inflamination of the Lymphatic Glands, requires to be treated on different principles. When there is merely chronic enlargement, without irritation, methodical friction with iodine or iodide of lead ointment will sometimes produce absorption of the inflammatory products, constituting the bulk of the enlargement ; and this in some instances may remove the tumour entirely. In other cases painting the part with tincture of iodine, and improvement of the general health, will cause the removal of the disease. When the glaud has softened and is becoming adherent to the surrounding parts, it becomes an important question, at what period it should be opened, so as to ensure the speediest recovery and the least scarring. It was formerly advised by many Surgeons to leave the gland until it became distinctly adhe- rent to the skin, and until it was so completely softened that the whole of the cheesy matter might be discharged at the time of opening. The result of this plan was usually to leave a deep puckered scar, and healing was seldom com-