464 DISEASE OF THE IlIF-JOINT. is well seen in the annexed drawino- (Fig. 088), taken from a patient of: mine who died of this form of the disease ; or it may be dislocated in a carious state on to the dorsum ilii. Large abscesses, intra- as well as extra-pelvic, form, and the patient dies worn out by hectic ; the natural efforts of the part being entirely unavailing to separate and to eliminate such large necrosed masses, deeply lying, and covered in by the upper end of the thigh-bone. Excision is imperatively required also in those cases in which the acetabu- lum has been perforated secondarily, in consequence of disease commencing in the head of the femur, as by no other means can the intra-pelvic abscess which results be efficiently ch-ained. It is not enough then to remove the head of the femur only ; the bone must be sawn below the trochanter, other- wise the upper end of the bone will still interfere with drainage. Biemoval of Diseased Acetabulum and Pelvic Bones.—Until a com- paratively recent period. Surgeons feared to undertake the removal of large carious and necrosed portions of the pelvic bones, and acetabular disease of the hip-joint was accordingly allowed to run its fatal course unchecked. Hancock was the first Surgeon who undertook the removal of large portions of these bones, and since then the operation has been done several times by others. In no case, has, I believe, more extensive disease been removed with a good result than in a girl who was sent to me many years ago by my friend Mr. Tweed, and from whom I removed the upper end of the thigh-bone, the acetabulum, the rami of the pubes and of the ischium, a portion of the tuber ischii, and part of the dorsum ilii. This patient, when admitted into the Hospital, was in the last stage of disease, exhausted by constant discharge, and must inevitably have speedily sunk had no effort been made to remove the cause of the prostration. At the operation she was so exhausted that it was necessary to leave her on the operating-table for some hours before she was sufficiently restored to bear moving into bed. Nevertheless, by the free use of stimulants and nourishing food, she improved rapidly ; and when she recovered, the limb presented the appearance in the drawing (Fig. 589) ; it was straight, shortened about two inches ; good movement existed at the hip ; and she could walk with much ease. Constitutionally, she was in perfect health, and has continued so up to the time when she was last seen, about fourteen years after the operation. In three other cases I have successfully removed large portions of the acetabulum and of the contiguous portions of the ilium and ischium. In cases such as these, the result, if they are left to themselves, must inevitably be fatal. ; There is no danger of laying open the pelvic cavity during the removal of ; these masses of pelvic bone ; for, as Hancock has shown, during the progress ' of the disease the fascia, muscles, &c., lining the pelvis, become so thickened that they form a barrier which effectually protects the pelvic cavity. ; Methods of Operating.—From the preceding considerations, it will be observed that there are two distinct operations practised on the hip-joint. The first is simple resection of a portion of the upper end of the femur, and the second, the removal of more or less of the acetabulum, and of the conti- guous pelvic bones as well. For the removal of the upper end of the femui only, the following plans may be adopted. The operation may, in most cases, be performed bloodlessly by applying the india-rubber tourniquet in the same way as for amputation of the hip-joint (Vol. L, Fig. 9). The advantages gained • by so doing are very great, as it enables the Surgeon to ascertain the condition of ^