SPEC I A L IIERNL E. Treatment.—The treatment consists, if tlie liernia l)e re{lneil)le, in weariiif^a properly constrnctccl truss ; if irreducible, in applying a hollow cup-shaped pad supported by a bandage over the part. It not nnfre&|iiently happens that ill consequence of an indigestible or flatulent meal, an irreducible umbilical rupture in old persons becomes obstructed, the symptoms consisting of tension of the protrusion, with nausea and constipation. In these cases, much dis- crimination will be required to avoid confounding this passive condition of the tumour with acute strangulation of it. This may be done by attention to the rules laid down (p. 772, Vol. II.). By leeching, fomentations, and enemata relief may usually be afforded. Should, however, the bowels not spiedily act and stercoraceous vomiting come on, the tumour continuing irreducible, it will be better to cut down upon it, and treat it as a strangulated hernia, dividing adhesions, and reducing the swelling ; for, if it be left obstructed and unreduced, the whole tumour may run into a state of gangrenous inflamma- tion, and then operative interference will be of little use. In such circum- stances death usually results ; but I have known the patient to survive the gangrene, the whole of a coil of intestine, the sac, and much mesentery and omentum sloughing away, and an incurable artificial anus resulting. When an umbilical hernia becomes strangulated, as often happens in old irreducible tumours of this description, the symptoms are not usually veiy acute at first ; but no time should be lost in effecting reduction, if possible, bv taxis, as they speedily assume an active and urgent character. If taxis fail a large umbilical hernia may sometimes be reduced by the application of the elastic bandage. This must be carefully applied round and over the tumour. The gentle and uniform pressure exerted by it may displace some flatus, and thus the contents of the hernia may gradually be emptied and the protrusion reduced. If this fail and the symptoms are not acute, small doses of opium may be given, and an ice-bladder applied, and kept on for a few hours. Taxis may then be again employed, when reduction of some portion of the swelling wdll usually follow. Should this not succeed, the operation must be proceeded with without further delay, lest gangrene set in. If the symptoms are from the first acute, the same rules apply to umbilical as to other hernise, not'to waste time with inefficient means, but to tiy taxis under an anmsthetic, and failing to reduce to operate immediately. Operation.—The parts covering an umbilical hernia are usually very thin in places, so that much caution is required in making the early incisions. The stricture should, if possible, be divided without opening the sac. This may usually be accomplished by drawing the tumour well down, and then making an incision in it about two inches in length over the neck at its upper part in the mesial line. If the tumour overlap here, it may be more convenient to make the incision by the side of the umbilical cicatrix ; but as a general rule, the upper part is the best. After the division of the integumental structures, and often of a deep layer of fat, the end of the nail may be slipped under the edge of the sharp circular aperture through which the protrusion has occurred, and, the stricture being divided away from the sac, and if possible in the mesial line, reduction may be readily and safely accomplished. Should the strangulation not be thus relieved, the sac must be opened, and any stricture divided from within. The operation for umbilical hernia wms formerly extremely fatal if the sac w\as opened, especially when the protrusion wiis of great size. Death usual y i .0 hi f ;JC .'3 i