DURATION OF SCUUUIUS OF THE BREAST. 731 ncreased by the projection forwards of the general mass of the breast, so that the nii)ple may become completely buried. This sign has received more im- portance than it deserves in connection with cancer, as it does not occur in all cases of malignant disease, and is occasionally met with in simple mammary tumours. The Axillary Glands usually become enlarged early in the disease, and may attain a greater size than that of the original tumour ; and on close examination a kind of indurated cord may in some cases be felt extending ■in the course of the lymphatic vessels, from the edge of the pectoral muscle to the axilla. After a time, the supraclavicular glands may likewise become implicated. In fact, the whole of the glandular structures in the vicinity of the shoulder undergo cancerous infiltration. When this is the case, the pressure upon the axillary vein may occasion oedema of the arm and hand. The glandular infiltration usually increases rapidly after the skin has become implicated. In some cases, when the glands become affected, the chief viru- i. lence of the disease appears to expend itself upon them ; the tumour of the breast ceasing to enlarge, or even wasting, whilst the secondary glandular deposits in the axilla become greatly developed. It is probably in this way that the supposed cases of primary scirrhus of the axillary glands have arisen. As the scirrhus extends it may gradually implicate the subjacent muscles, areolar tissue, the ribs, and at last the pleura, giving rise eventually to hydro- thorax. After the affection of the lymphatic glands, secondary growths make their appearance in the Viscera and other parts of the body. The period at which this takes place varies in different cases. As a rule it may be stated that the softer the tumour and the younger the patient the earlier will the viscera be implicated. The most common seat of the visceral tumours is the liver; after that, but at a considerable interval, comes the lung and then the bones. In the brain, kidneys and other organs secondary growths are occasionally met with, but are less common. Among the bones, the femur, the ribs and the vertebrfe are perhaps the most frequently affected. In the last situation it causes death by development of angular curvature, with pressure on the ;3pinal cord. In the long bones it gives rise to spontaneous fracture. The Constitutional Cachexy is, in the majority of cases, not present till after ulceration has taken place or secondary growths have formed in the interaal organs. In fact, in a very large proportion of cases the patient has enjoyed exceptionally good health, and appears perfectly healthy in other respects at the time the tumour is first discovered, and may remain so till it has made considerable progress. The implication of the skin is usuallv an epoch of peculiar importance in scirrhus of the breast, as it is at this period ■that the pain increases, the lymphatic glands become infected, and the consti- nitiori becomes distinctly 2)oisoned. Duration.—The duration of life after the occurrence of scii-rhus of the breast varies greatly ; so much so, that the disease may be considered as assuming an acute and a chronic form. The acute variety occurs iwincipally in ruddy and pletlioric women, and commonly proves fatal in a few months. In those who are of a more feeble and delicate constitution, the disease, as a general rule, hikes a slower course. Sir A. Cooper states that the disease, on in average, is from two to three years in growing, and from six months to two