333 VARIETIES OF ACUTE ARTHRITIS. without sufficient drainage and without antiseptic treatment, decomposition of the pus in the cavity takes place, and the ordinary results of septic arthritis follow. The exact process by which the joint becomes infected, and what it is that determines the particular joint or joints which are attacked, is not certainly known. The pus contained in the articulation in all forms of infec- tive arthritis is very irritating and contains micro-organisms in large numbers. (See also Pymmia, Yol. L, p. 1)52.) In scarlet fever it is not uncommon for the patient to suffer from slight swelling and pain in the joints resembling rheumatism. This subsides without suppuration, and is probably distinct from the pymmic affection just described. Acute arthritis may occur as a complication also of gonorrhoea, but it is a rare occurrence. The milder forms of inflammation of the joints, included under the term gonorrhoeal rheumatism, will be described in the Chapter on Gonon'hcea. When the affection assumes a destructive form it is probably due to pymmic infection. Acute Arthritis from Exposure to Cold. Acute Rheumatic Arthritis.—This is a somewhat rare affection. After exposure to cold, especially from sleeping in the open air after being heated by violent exer- tion, the patient is seized suddenly with acute febrile symptoms, sometimes preceded by a rigor. At the same time swelling, with intense pain, com- mences in one joint, most commonly the knee. The symptoms at first so closely resemble an attack of acute rheumatism that these cases are com- monly first admitted in hospital practice into the medical wards and sub- sequently transferred to the surgical. The distinction from acute rheumatism is made by observing the following points : the skin is hot and dry, the profuse sweating of rheumatic fever being absent ; the affection remains limited to the single joint attacked, and the symptoms are much more severe than in ordinary rheumatism. The ligaments are early implicated, and there is little recognizable effusion into the joint; the pain is most agonizing and is of the character already described as occurring in acute arthritis. Pus may form in the joint in a few days from the commencement of the attack, but under proper treatment, the symptoms usually subside gradually, and the patient slowly recovers, after weeks or months, with the joint always stiffened, and usually firmly ankylosed, sometimes even by bone. The exact cause of the disease is not certain ; from its sudden invasion, and its arising from exposure to cold, it has been termed rheumatic, but the evidence of its being actually related to acute rheumatism is not clear. Yolkmann describes it under the name of Acute Croupous Arthromeningitis, and states that it is characterized by an abundant coagulable exudation both into the synovial cavity and the soft structures forming the joint. From the facts that if ^up- I>uration takes place the cartilages are rapidly destroyed, and that in other cases bony ankylosis occurs subsequent probably to such destruction, Brodie and Mayo believed that structure to be primarily aftected and named the disease Primary Acute Ulceration of Cartilage. At the present time ulceration of cartilage is believed to be invariably secondary to mischief commencing in the vascular structures. Acute Arthritis secondary to Disease of the Bones.—Chronic dishes of the bones most commonly, when they extend to a neighbouring articulation, lead to a chronic disease of the joint, assuming the form of wliitc