PERITOXITIS AFTER ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 753 DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. CHAPTEH LXI. I I In no department of Surgery lias there been a greater advance dimng the last e\v yeai's than in the Operative Treatment of Diseases of the Abdominal i,nd Pelvic Viscera. But a few years ago a wound of the peritoneum, whether ccidental or intentional, was regarded as being inevitably accompanied by rave danger to life. The perfection of the operation of ovariotomy, with hich the name of Sir Spencer Wells must ever be inseparably associated, led 4! ■ 1 a more thorough understanding of the causes of death, and established the rrinciples which alone can guide us to success in operative procedures affecting ;ad peritoneal ca\uty. The systematic use of antiseptics, further put at our ■ommand the best means of preventing the most common and most fatal omplications of peritoneal wounds, so that at the present time operations on le abdominal viscera are undertaken with little more hesitation, and are ;Ltended by as good results, as those of equal magnitude in any other part of •lebody. Before proceeding to the description of the surgical diseases of the 'Ixlomen and their treatment, it will be well to consider briefly the special angers common to all abdominal operations, and the principles which guide i in avoiding them. ‘ Operations on the abdomen, with wound of the peritoneum, should they Tove fatal, usually do so from one of three causes—septic peiitonitis and pticajmia, shock, or haemorrhage. ! Septic or Diffuse Peritonitis and Septicaemia.—These conditions are • closely associated that it is most convenient to consider them together, ntil recently the ])eritoneum was believed to possess some peculiar tendency I inflammation which rendered a wound of it specially dangerous ; the ■ flammation spreading, as was said, by continuity of tissue. There is Dthing to justify such an assumption. The peritonemn becomes inflamed ider the same conditions as other tissues, the process is the same, and, as in her parts, it is limited.to the area upon which the cause is acting. In the ’evention of peritonitis it is neeessary, therefore, to consider the causes to lich it is due, with a view of excluding them, if possible. Certain causes of inflfimmation, as pointed out in the chapter on the •oce.ss of Inflammation (Vol. I.) are, from their nature, limited in action. D these belong mechanical injuries, heat and cold, and the action of those emical substances which cannot increase in quantity in the living body, ch as mineral acids, saline caustics, and the like. A wound of the peri- neum, therefore, gives rise to inflammation limited to the area injured, and dess some other cause be introduced it has no tendency to spread further. I inflammation of the peritoneum, as in all other membranes lining cavities, e inflammatory products And their way readily to the surface. If the voi.. II. 3 ^ J