9o8 secondary DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. the other it was free from disease, and the urine it contained acid, and with- out unpleasant smell. The kidney is o-enerally swollen and eidarged. The fat surrounding it is nsnally ahnormally adherent to the capsule. The capsule is thick and opaque, and marked hy ramiform vessels, showing clearly on the surface. It separates easily, but in so doing tears the kidney-substance. The surface of the kidney presents a more or less mottled appearance. The chief tint is the same as in the diffuse form just described, and is, in fact, due to the existence of the same condition ; but scattered here and there, usually in groups, are bright yellow spots, surrounded by a dark red areola, and varying in size from a pin’s head to a split pea (Fig. 828). On cutting into these yellow spots, each is found to contain a drop of pus. These minute abscesses are usually grouped in areas corresponding to that part of the cortex which helongs to a single pyramid. If now a section be made of the kidney, the points of suppura- Fig. 821.—Acute Interstitial Nephritis : Scattered Abscesses. Margin of abscess to the right. Malpighian body in the middle. Comparatively healthy tubules with inter-tubular cell-infiltration, to the left. tion will not be found to be limited to the surface. Often they are continued down towards a pyramid, and are connected with a yellow streak running parallel to the straight tubules as far as the papilla, or, if that have been partly destroyed by pressure, as far as the point at which the tubules open into the pelvis. This condition is not invariable, as sometimes the abscesses are perfectly isolated, and show no connection whatever with the pyramidal portion of the kidney. Occasionally one or more of the abscesses may burst beneath the capsule, separating it from the kidney, and, giving rise to further suppura- tion, may include the whole organ in a large collection of pus. This form of kidney, which is perhaps that most frequently met with in the post-mortem room, is frequently conjoined with the signs of pressure, absolution of the pyramids, and dilatation of the pelvis. The microscope shows that in this form of kidney the appearances are essentially the same as in the last; the chief change being the accumulation of crowds of small round cells in the intertubular substance, the degree of cell-infiltration varying in almost every field of the microscope. At the point at which an abscess is forming, or at the margin of one already formed, the crowds of small round cells are seen to press upon the tubules, separating them widely, and squeezing their Avails together (Fig. 821). Then the Avail becomes indistinct; then only a few epithelium- cells can. be recognized in the croAvd of leucocytes ; lastly, nothing but leu- cocytes can be seen, and a little nearer the centre the intercellular substance becomes fluid, and the cells float free, and pus is thus formed. The red areola