235 RESULTS OF TYIFG THE COMMON ILIAC. cartilage and the umbilicus. Care must be taken that the incision be not carried too low down or too far forwards ; nothing can be gained by doing so, and there is besides the additional risk of the circumflex iliac or epigastric being wounded as happened to ]\[ott; and as these arc the princi])al agents in the anastomosing circulation, their injury is a serious accident. The muscles are carefully divided, as in the operation for the external iliac, and the trans- versalis fascia opened in the same way. The peritoneum now comes bulging into the wound, pressed forward by its contents. It must be gently stripped from the iliac fossa by the Surgeon carefully insinuating his hand beneath it, care being taken to I’aise it directly inwards towards the brim of the pelvis, at which point the external iliac will be found, which serves as a guide to the parent trunk. The ureter always comes up with the peritoneum, and is usually not seen. The peritoneum must be Avell drawn inwards by broad copper spatulm. The ligature must be passed round the artery on the left side from within outwards, a slight scratch having been made through the fascia, covering the vessel by means of the finger-nail, by Avhich it may also be separated from the accompanying vein. On the right side great caution must be used, on account of the position of the left vein beneath the artery and the right to its outer side. In the later stages of the operation, the patient should be turned on his sound side in order to prevent the intes- tines fi’om falling over and pressing the peritoneum into the Avound. Results.—Writing in 1852, 1 stated that Avhen Ave look at the depth at Avhich this artery is situated, its great size, and proximity to the centre of the circu- lation, and consider the force Avith Avhich the blood rushes through it, Ave can- not but be struck Avith the success Avhich has attended its ligature. Of 17 cases in which it had then been tied, 8 Avere cured, and 9 died ; in 11 of the cases the ligature was applied for aneurism, and of these 7 recovered. The 4 that died perished mther fi’om the magnitude and extent of the disease than from the eflects of the operation ; and it is remarkable, as shoAving the poAver of the anastomoses in maintaining the Autality of parts, that in no instance did gan- grene ensue. Since this period the operation has been performed many times, but AA'ith much less satisfactory results. Stephen Smith, of New York, published the statistics of this operation in 1860, giving the details of 32 cases ; of these, he says, 25 died and only 7 recoA^ered. I think the numbers should be 24 and 8 ; and in one case (Bushe’s), the patient (an infant) diedtAvo months after the operation, the ligature having separated and the artery being occluded and thus the deligation having succeeded. Glurlt of Berlin, in repro- ducing Smith’s tables, adds 2 cases, both fatal. To these must be added also a fatal case by Dugas, of Charleston, and five in Avhich the operation has, within the last few years, been performed in this country ; once by Bicker- steth of Liverpool, successfully; once by Hargrave of Dublin, Avhose patient died on the 8e\*enty-third day after the operation, of gangrene of the foot and profuse discharge from the Avound ; and once by Maunder, the patient, a man forty years of age, dying on the sixth day from gangrene of the loAA’er ex- tremity ; by ^loiTant Baker in a youth of 17, for luemorrhage from a branch of the internal iliac, consequent on ulceration produced by sacro-iliac disease fatal on the day folloAving the operation. During the American War the operation was performed in 5 cases, all unsuccessful. These cases increase the total number to 44, of Avhich 9 recovered and 35 died ; in 9 of the cases the f)critoncum was Avounded, and of these 8 })roved fatal. Of 19 cases in