DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 646 prefeiTcd, as its use is attended by less hteinorrliage than follows tliat of the knife. It Avill occasionally be found tliat the anteiior pillar of tlie fauces is soinewliat in the way of the application of the instrument. Should this be inconveniently so, it may be snipped across before the wii’e of the ecraseur is ajjplied. l>y means of this operation, which I have several times performed, the whole of the tongue may be shaved off clean from the base of the epiglottis and hyoid bone. After the removal of the tongue the haBinorrhage will usually be found to be trifling ; but should one or other of the lingual arteries bleed, it may readily be seized and ligatured. The line of incision in the skin must then be stitched up, a good sized drainage-tube being inserted at the lower end of the vertical incision. ! Kocher of Berne, believing that the best hope of giving prolonged relief or j possibly permanently curing the patient, lies in a complete removal in every ! case of the lymphatic glands below the jaw simultaneously with the diseased part j of the tongue, has introduced a method of operating which in his hands has been attended by a considerable degree of success. He makes a free external incision, |, commencing a little below the lobule of the ear and running downwards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid to the level of the gi’eat cornu of the 1, hyoid bone; from this an incision is carried forwards nearly to the body of the ? hyoid bone, and then upwards along the line of the anterior belly of the digastric to the jaw. The flap thus marked out is turned upwards over j the face. The lingual artery is then tied before it passes beneath the hyo- glossus. By a process of careful dissection, all the lymphatic glands are ■i removed from the region exposed by the wound. In so doing the carotid ! sheath will be exposed, as one gland always lies upon it close to the sterno- -i mastoid. The facial artery and vein will be divided, and must be secured by j ligature. It is usually necessary to remove the submaxillary and sublingual f| glands, which otherwise are somewhat in the way. Some lymphatic glands, j touching the inner surface of the jaAV, between it and the sublingual gland, j must be sought for and removed. The mylo-hyoid muscle and the mucous i membrane of the mouth are uoav fuUy exposed, and must be carefully divided, | Avhen the side of the tongue to its very root comes into view. If only one side » is affected, the tongue may now be split down the middle line from the mouth, P and the base cut through from the external wound. Kocher recommends a <■ preliminary tracheotomy and plugging the pharynx during the operation. In Im fom’teen cases operated on by himself by this method only one patient died, j J fi’om secondary hgemorrhage from the tracheotomy Avomid. In 8 recurrence ill of the disease took place, 1 died a year after of pneumonia, and 4 remained | well at 14 months, 5, 5 and 6| years afber the operation. The operation is a j bold one, and requires skill and patience in its performance ; but the danger t does not seem to be great, and the results are such as to encourage further j attempts in the same direction. The Buccal Operation.—Furneaux Jordan has introduced an operation which consists in dividing the cheek on the affected side backwards as far as e the ramus of the jaw, care being taken to go beloAV the parotid duct. The i tongue is then seized in the usual way, and cut off by tAVO ecraseurs Avorked | simultaneously, the chain of one dividing the organ transveraely close to the J pillars of the fauces, that of the other severing the tissues along the floor of ! the mouth. 1 have performed this operation in one case of unilateral cancer ; of the tongue, and found that the organ could readily be reached, commanded, 1