SPECIAL AFEURISAIS. 254 aiicc occasioned by the setting- in of mortification, as well as the pain and risk of a previous nnnecessary 0])eration. 5. When gangrene threatens, the leg and foot having become cold, the skin being either pale, tallowy, and mottled, or discoloured, of a purplish line, with perhaps vesications and much oedema, Avhether the ligature have been jireviouslv applied to the femoral artery cr not, or whatever the condition of the aneurism may be, whether circnmscribed or diffused, the ])atient will stand a better chance of ultimate recovery by having the limb removed at once above the knee. The part at which amputation should be performed in these cases is a point deserv- ing consideration. If the femoral artery have been ligatured, the thigh should be amputated on a level with the ligature, the artery l)eing cut just above this. In this way the double ri.sk which the patient would otherwise run of secondary hmmorrhage from the seat of the ligature, as well as from the face of the stump, will be reduced to a single chance of hsemorrhage from the stump. If the amputation be the primary operation, it should be done at the lower third of the thigh, provided the extravasation be confined to below the knee ; or higher up, if the effused blood have extended above this joint. Aneurisms of the Tibial Arteries are extremely rare, except as the result of wound, yet they are occasionally met wnth; and in the museum of St. George’s Hospital is a preparation of a small aneurism of the posterior tibial. I have seen only one case during life, that of a man suffering from cardiac and renal disease, admitted into University College Hospital under my care for an anemdsm of the anterior tibial at the lower part of the upper third of the right leg. The signs were well marked—pulsation forcible and excentric, bruit loud. Compression was used without avail; and as he was anasarcous, no other surgical treatment could be adopted. He left the hospital uncured. The popliteal and tibial arteries sometimes require ligature for injury, but very rarely for disease. The operations may be briefly described here. Ligature of the Popliteal Artery.—The popliteal artery may be tied at any part of its course. In the toiver kvo thirds it can be reached only by an incision in the line of the vessel. The external saphenous vein will be found in the subcutaneous tissue, and must be avoided. After dividing the fascia lata the internal popliteal nerve must be found and dra-wn to the outer side. The vein then comes into view and must be drawm out of the way, when the artery will be exposed lying deeply on the posterior ligament of the knee joint. This operation is never undertaken except for a womid, and consequently must always be more or less of an informal character. In its u})per third the vessel is reached most easily fr’om the inner side. The guiding line for the incision is the posterior border of the tendon of the adductor magnus. The knee is flexed and the limb placed on its outer side, and an incision is made from three to four inches length parallel to the tendon of the adductor magnus and immediately behind it. Its upper extremity should correspond to the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the thigh. The skin and su])er- ficial fascia are divided, avoiding the long saphenous nerve if possible, and the deep fascia opened. The edge of the tendon of the adductor magnus, which forms the first rallying point in the operation, is then sought for. Some branches of the anastomotica magna are di^■idcd at this stage of the opera- tion and require ligature. When the adductor tendon is found, the sartorius and gracilis and inner hamstring muscles are pushed backwards Avith the finger and lield with a copj)cr spatula. Care must be taken not to pass the spatula