7o8 DISEASES OP THE BREAST. likewise been found to occur ; two to each Iji’east have Ijcen met witli, each having ducts opening upon it. Most frequently the supernumerary )>reast is situated somewhere in the neighbourhood of the normal gland, as on the anterior part of the thorax ; and where four are developed, they have been found placed in two parallel rows, one above the otlier: Occasionally they have been met Avith in A^ery strange situations ; thus they have been seen on the outer part of the thigh, in the groin, and on the back; and children are even said to have been suckled by these abnormal breasts. NEURALGIA. Neuralgia of the Breast occasionally occurs to so severe a degree as to constitute a positive disease, either in girls or at a more advanced period of life, when it not unfrequently complicates other more serious aifectious of this organ. It is especially apt to occur in young, delicate, unmarried females of the hysterical temperament, though it is often met with in strong, ruddy-looking women, who are perhaps subject to neuralgic pains in the back, : and in other situations. Most commonly the catamenia will be found to be i irregular ; and uterine congestion, inflammation, ulceration, or displacement, j will be discoA^ered on examination ; indeed, I have scarcely ever failed to : detect one or other of these conditions in the uterus in cases of neuralgic ; breast. Symptoms.—In neuralgia of the breast, the mammary gland may be of its i normal size and consistence; but in some instances it is more or less indurated i and hypertrophied, owing evidently to chronic inflammatory thickening, i. There are always much general pain and aching, deeply in its substance, Avith ! cutaneous tenderness of its surface, and lancinating or radiatmg sensations jf that extend into the axilla and doAAm the arm. These painful sensations are j. i commonly increased before the menstrual period, and not unfrequently i alternate in the two breasts. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection from more serious mammary • ■ disease may usually be effected by attending to the superficial and radiating i character of the pain, to the neurotic temperament of the woman in whom it i | occurs, to its shifting seat, and to the absence of any signs of organic disease ! in the breast sufficient to occasion it. Treatment.—The treatment consists especially in attention to the condition ; of the uterine organs; unless this be done the disease will prove excessively i rebellious and troublesome to manage. By remoAung by proper remedies any | uterine irritation that may be found, this affection Avill be subdued with far i greater readiness than by any purely local plan of treatment. At the same ■ time, anti-hysterical constitutional remedies may be employed; the prepara-' tions of iron administered, when necessary ; and the local pain relieved by ! the application of belladonna and opiate plasters, or by h}q)odermic injections i of moi*phia. HYPERTROPHY. Simple Hypertrophy of the Breast is not unfrequently associated Avitli very severe neuralgia of the organ. An increase of size, sncli as naturally takes place during pregnancy, betAveen the fourth and ninth months, Avill occasionally commence at puberty, and go on until the organ attains an enormous bulk, as in Fig. 770, which represents the breast of a A'eiy thin girl I