288 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. forceps and the application repeated if any dise^ised hone can still be seen. ! The treatment is said to be efficacious, and the pain accompanying it is not t severe. When caries affects the articular ends of the bones, as those that enter into I the formation of the elbow or shoulder-joints, it may be so situated as not to : admit of removal in the way just indicated, but to require Excision of the ! diseased articulation : this operation we shall consider in a subsequent Chapter. When caries involves a bone so extensively that neither of the preceding plans I can successfully be put into operation, it becomes necessary to perform either j the Resection of the whole of the bone, if it be of small size, or Amimiation of the limb, if of greater magnitude or if the neighbouring joints be extensively affected. Thus, for instance, resection of the os calcis may be required for caries of that bone ; while, if the whole of the tarsus be affected, amputation is the only resource. j NECROSIS. The transition from Caries to Necrosis is easy. Caries may be regarded as a condition closely analogous to ulceration of the soft tissues : whilst necrosis must be looked upon as identical with gangrene. Whilst caries, however, chiefly affects the cancellous structure, necrosis is met with in the compact tissue of bone, and occurs far more frequently in the shafts than in the articular ends of the long bones. It is, however, an error to suppose that the cancellous structure is exempt from necrosis ; thus in the head of the tibia, or in the os calcis, small masses of necrosed bone are not unfrequently found lying in the interiors of carious or suppurating cavities. Different bones are affected by necrosis with varying degrees of frequency. The tibia at its anterior part is most frequently diseased; the femm- in its lower third is also very commonly affected. The lower end of the humerus is not so often necrosed ; but not uncommonly the phalanges of the fingers from J whitlow, the skull from syphilis, the lower jaw fr’om the emanations evolved in the manufacture of phosphorus matches, and the clavicle and ulna from injuiy I or constitutional causes, are found affected by necrosis. j Causes.—The causes of necrosis are very various. We have just seen that it is Predisposed to by the structure of particular parts of bone, and is more frequent in some bones than in others. Among the constitutional conditions which predispose to it, we must rank in the first line scrofula and syphilis. Acute febrile disturbance, more particularly scarlet and typhoid fevers, are not unfrequent causes of necrosis in the young. Scarlet fever especially is apt to be followed by pains in the leg and about the knee, which at first appear to be of a rheumatic character, but which speedily run into abscess and are attended by all the symptoms of the most acute form of necrosis. Most of the local conditions which give rise to necrosis of bone have been already described, and require merely to be mentioned here. Before tlie age of puberty almost all cases of extensive necrosis of the shafts of long bones ’ are the result of acute diffuse periostitis or acute necrosis (see p. 279). In the cancellous tissue necrosis is sometimes the result of acute osteomyelitis, hut more commonly arises from a more chronic form of inflammation, often tubercular, accompanied by caseation of the inflammatory products by which the vascular supply of the affected area is cut off. Acute osteomyelitis follow-