1135 OPERATIONS FOR PHIMOSIS. •subside. If, however, the pliimosis, though acquired, be permanent, it should be subjected to operation. A long foreskin without actual phimosis if a source of annoyance to an adult may easily be remedied by keeping it constantly drawn back. At first the tendency for the prepuce to slip forwards must be overcome by -wrapping a piece of dry lint round it, and securing it by an elastic band, which must be just tight enough to keep it in position. After a few weeks the foreskin will retain the retracted position, and after a year or so will be found to have undergone considerable diminution in size. Operations for Phimosis may be conducted on three plans ; the elongated and contracted prepuce may be dilated, or slit up, or ciremneision may be performed. 1. Dilatation of the Phimosis may be effected by putting the patient under chlorofonn, introducing a pair of forceps, and opening them widely, tearing through the narrow j^reputial orifice and tight funnel-shaped mucous membrane ; or this may be slit up with a narrow tenotome on each side, and then dilatation practised. This procedure may be usefully adopted if the prepuce be not very long and tight, or if any objection exist to circumcision as too severe an operation. In the acquired phimosis of old men, consequent upon contraction follow- ing cracks of the preputial margin, I have found that dilatation may safely and speedily be effected by the introduction of a two-bladed dilator, such as is used for the female urethra, which, being gradually screwed open, causes the indurated circle to yield. 2. Slitting up of the Prepuce, whether upon its upper or under surface, is, I think, an objectionable procedure, leaving the prepuce of its abnormal length, and more or less fissured and knobbed. In all cases I jirefer circum- cision as the simplest qnd speediest operation, and as leaving the most satis- factory result. 3. Circumcision for Congenital Phimosis in Infants.—It may be gathered from what has already been stated with respect to the evil effects resulting from congenital phimosis, that circumcision in this condition may l>e required to remove an elongated and possibly adherent pre])uce, which oc- casions much local irritation, or which is the exciting causes of reflex and dis- tant nervous disturbance of a paralytic or spastic character. So great arc the evils resulting not only from congenital phimosis, but from an abnormally long, though not phimotic prepuce, that it is only humane and right ft’oni a moral ])oint of view, to practise early circumcision in all such cases. This o])eratioii IS easily and safely performed according to the Hebrew rite, which 1 have several times had an opportunity of witnessing, and which is done as follows. The child iKjing held on the lap of an assistant, the operator draws the foreskin slightly fonvards, and then grasps it just in front of the glaiis by drawing it through a slit in a silver guard. This is not held perpendicularly downwards, but is inclined from above slightly forwards and downwards, so as to avoid cutting the frtenum as much as ])ossible, and to slice off the prepuce in an oblique or quilled manner. This is done by one stroke of a broad round-ended knife. The mucous membrane is then torn open between the finger and thumb along the dorsum of the penis, and is turned back so as to be brought into con- tact with the cut edge of the skin. A strip of dry lint is then twisted round the organ in the sulcus behind the glans, so as to keep back the mucous mem-