367 EXCISION OF THE SHOULDER. EXCISIONS IN THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The whole of the upper extremity is suhscryient to the hand. It is to jr render this more widely useful as an organ of prehension and of touch that tlie |> shoulder, the elhow, and the wrist-joints are endowed with yaried and extensiye hmoyements. But the moyements of each one of these joints so supplement It those of the others, that any one articulation may be removed, and yet the ll: limb be left with a sufficient range and variety of movements to render the ]!: hand useful for all the ordinary puiposes of life. The limb may be shortened, (iand it may be weakened; and yet, if sufficient length and strength be left to enable the individual to use his hand, an immense gain will result. The limb ! mthout the hand would be a comparatively useless appendage. The hand left ; in its integi'ity is useful in a great variety of ways, however mutilated the other parts of the upper extremity may be. Hence, j^rovided the Surgeon can U save the hand, he need not hesitate to sacrifice other portions of the limb; and I:, the shoulder, elbow, or wrist, may be removed, and the patient left in the [r possession of a most useful and efficient member; shortened, it is true, and to Is a certain extent cmdailed in its movements, but possessing all the delicate and |ii intricate motions of the hand in full perfection and freedom. Shoulder-JOINT.—Excision of the shoulder-joint may be required for two |g conditions : 1. Disease, and 2. Compound and Comminuted Fracture of the [articulation. 1, Excision for Disease.—For disease, excision is not so commonly required in this as in many other articulations ; primary disease of the soft articular structures of this joint not being very frequent, and, when it happens, usually terminating in fibrous ankylosis, wdthout suppuration. When carious and necrosed bones are met with about the shoulder, it will frequently be B found that the coracoid or acromion processes, or the scapular spine, are pat fault rather than the osseous structures of the joint itself. In some cases a small sequestrum lying in a carious cavity in the head of the humerus may ll be removed by slitting up sinuses, without the necessity of excising the head of the bone. TMien excision is required for disease of the shoulder-joint, it is usually for [ caries commencing in the head of the humerus, especially in children and yomig i adults. In these cases it will be usually found that the glenoid cavity is [affected secondarily, and to so limited an extent that it readily recovers when h. the irritation caused by the friction of the head of the humerus against it is p removed. Although in sarcomata of the upper end of the humerus excision r has been practised, this operation is not usually advisable in such cases, p Bickersteth has successfully removed the head of the humerus for exostosis. |lln cases of intracapsular fracture through the neck of the humerus, with i detachment of the head of the bone, disorganization of the joint has resulted. This has been laid open, and the loose head of the bone removed iin two instances by Brainard of Chicago ; the patients recovering with useful [limbs. Operation.—Partial Excision of the head of the hnmenis in some cases of caries has been practised by slitting up sinuses and the application of the gouge or sharj) spoon to the diseased osseous surface. Occasionally, as in cases |r reported by Fergusson and Scdillot, these operations have been attended by successful results. But not unfrequently they fail in effecting a cure, the