Z'OMPARISOX OF MODES OF TREATING STRICTURE. 1109 strictures implicating the submucous tissue and mucous membrane only, nthout any extensive chronic inflammatory induration of the surrounding oarts. Idiese are, however, specially suited to internal urethrotomy over •vhich the subcutaneous operation seems to possess no advantages. Comparison of Methods of Treatment.—Gradual dilatation, carried on with patience and gentleness, if need be, on account of the irritability of the irethra or the sensitiveness of the patient, with the help of anaesthetics, will suftice for the cure of the vast majority of strictures ; and it rarely becomes mecessai'y for a Surgeon who combines j)atience with skill to have recourse to 'those more severe methods of treatment which have been somewhat unduly ■extolled and too often unnecessarily practised of late years. The urethra is indeed frequently treated as if it were an inert tube, to which the various ! practices of rupture, splitting, forcible dilatation, or incision, could be applied ’■with impunity, rather than a highly sensitive canal, very apt to resent, locally I or constitutionally, undue violence applied to it. But, whilst we fully recognize this important point, and hold with Liston 'that whenever a catheter can be got through a stricture its cui’e by dilatation :is all but certain in the hands of a skilful Surgeon, yet it is undoubtedly the ifact that cases do occasionally occur in which simple dilatation fails to effect a • cui’e; the stricture being highly contractile, and not allowing expansion beyond a certain point, or relapsing whenever the dilating means are removed. In other cases, also, the patient suffers so much pain and irritation whenever an instrument is passed, that he cannot bear the repeated introductions that are necessary, more particularly if the stricture be complicated with fistulm in perinmo or false passages, which render its cure by dilatation tedious and almost impracticable. In such cases as these the Surgeon, being unable to benefit his patient materially by dilatation, must choose between the employ- ment of palliative means or more active measures. It appears to me that there are four classes of cases, in which more energetic means than simple dilatation may not only be advantageously employed, but are absolutely requii'ed. 1. Very old dense cartilayinous strictures, often of traumatic origin, which admit an instrament with great difficulty, and cannot be dilated beyond a certain point, owing to the conversion of the urethral structures into a kind of dense, fibrous, almost cicatricial tissue, which neither admits of expansion nor of absoi'ption by the pressure of instruments ; and in Avhich a considerable extent—half an inch or more—of the urethra is involved. 2. The same kind of stricture, complicated with fiskdee in the perinmum or scrotum, with perhaj)s consideral)le plastic infiltration of these parts. In both these classes, I think that tlie perineal section or external urethrotomy is the preferable oficration. 3. Very tiylitsiricturrs, accompanied by excessive sensitiveness of the urethra; in whicli each introduction of the instrument is attended by intense suffering and rigors, so that the i)atient cannot l)e induced to submit to a proper course of bougies. 4. Very clastic, though perhaps narrow siricktres, that can be dilated readily enough, even u[) to the admission of full-sized instruments ; but which, wlien the treatment is discontinued, immediately l)egin to contract again, so that the ]>atient is never out of the Surgeon’s hands, and sees no ])rosj)Cct of cure. In these last two classes of cases, I am of opinion that internal urethrotomy