1104 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. be fraught with danger ; for, as it would of course be impossible for the Surgeon to guide the stylet exactly in the direction of the urethra, it would be more likely to perforate the walls of this canal than to pass through the stricture. In hard and resisting contractions, however, in the straight portion of the canal anterior to the scrotum, such an instru- Fig. 931.—Lfiiicetted Stylet for Division of Stricture. ment may occasionally be used with advantage. A very convenient form of cutting stylet is the one figured here, which has a probe end, that is introduced through the stricture, and serves as a guide to the blade, which is projected and caused to retract into its cylinder by the action of a spring (Fig. 931). The other mode of dividing strictures within the urethra is by cutting from 'behind forwards. During the last few years, great improvement has been made in the instru- ments employed in this operation, and it has consequently risen much in favour. Cutting from before backwards without a guide proved so dangerous, that it has been finally abandoned. On the other hand, the operation of cutting from behind forwards could not, until recently, be performed unless the stricture was capable of admitting a No. 5 at least. The Surgeons to whom we are most indebted for improvements in the instruments employed, are Yan Buren, Gouley, and Otis of New York, Maisomieuve of Paris, and Berkeley Hill of London. The objects wliich these Surgeons have had in view have been, first, to provide a safe and certain guide for a small cutting instrument, and secondly, so far to diminish the size of the instruments as to make them Fig. 932.—Otis’s Dilator and Urethrometer. available for strictures not capable of taking more than a Iso. 1 catheter. Lastly, as it was found that the great mobility of the uretlma rendered it difficult in many cases to divide the stricture, a combination of stretching and cutting was introduced by Otis, which greatly facilitates the operation. The guide to the bladder may be obtained in two ways. A fine whalebone bougie having been passed through the stricture, the urethrotome may be so constructed, by being tunnelled for a short distance at its point, as to slide over this into the bladder. But a better plan is the employment of Maison- neuve’s sonde conductrice, or conducting sound. This is a veiy fine^ elastic bougie, provided with a male screw at the end (Fig. 93<>«). This is ist passed on till it is supposed to be in the bladder. A small cathetei coire-