435 SA CRO-ILIA C DISEA SE. CHAPTER LI. DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAO JOINT. Disease of the Sacro-Iliac Articulation is a rare affection. With but I# few exceptions, systematic writers on Surgery were, until recently, altogether silent upon this subject. Boyer and Chelius mention the disease ; but it is f'^|^only by Nelaton that any detailed ( description of it has been given. This 1 may be partly accounted for by its 5 i/ll rarity, and partly, perhaps, by its tIuH having not unfrequently been con- half founded with some of the varieties of [jKl( disease of the hip or spine. i!| Sacro-iliac disease is essentially a < chronic affection, lasting for months or years. It appears to be strumous Sacro-mac Disease in its early stage, till in its origin, partaking of the nature Pig. src.-Sacmm. Fig. srr.-iiium. ill 1 and character of ordinary “white i swellings.” I have never seen it in young children, and in all the cases 1 which form the basis of these observations it has occurred in young adults t from 14 to 30 years old. The If exciting causes of the disease are If obscure: I have not been able to [l trace it to blow or injury in any M of the cases that have been under h ray care, although there can be h very little doubt that such causes 11 might excite it. Pathology.—The disease may |< commence primarily either in the 11 pelvic bones, or in the articular |t structures of the sacro-iliac ; junction. The annexed drawings ( (Figs. 57C>, 577), taken from a boy who died of tetanus from the i irritation of an issue, six weeks ■ after the commencement of disease J mthe sacro-iliac articulation, show erosion of the cartilages in patches, next drawinir (Fig. 578), Fig. 678.—Sacro-iliuc Disease, more advanced. The taken from a man about 3o years of age, who died of this affection after nearly two years of suffering, shows the disease in its most advanced stage. The bones are bare and rough, but not necrosed; they are completely deprived of their incrusting cartilage. There is no deep erosion of