URINARY CA LC ULUS. 1026 instriiiucnfc constrnctod, Avith Avhich it is far more easy to manipulate in the female bladder. If urine or Avater cannot be retained, the calculus maA' mom safely be seized and crushed by means of a small 'and strong-bladed pair of lithotomy-forceps : or, if the stone be large, by a crushing instrument, inade of the shape of that depicted in Fig. DOd. In performing lithotrity in the female it is not necessary to ])ulverize the calculus, but merely to break it up into fragments of such a size as to admit of easy extraction through the iirethi'a. After the stone has been bi'okeu up, the urethra (unless this lias previouslv been done) may be dilated by means of the three-bladed instrument to a mode- rate degree, the larger fragments removed by means of a pair of slender forceps, and the detritus and smaller fragments cleared out of the bladder by repeated injections of tepid AA'ater, or liy an CA'acii- ator, such as is used in the male. The Avhole of the fragments and detritus should be removed at one sitting. The shortness and Avide capacity of the female urethra Avill readily alloAv the escape ot any detritus that may unavoidably be lefL For all calculi in the female bladder, except those of the very largest size, this operation is the most applicable. I liaA'e ill this fray crushed and extracted at one sitting, fi-om the bladder of a lady about 50 years of age, a phosphatic calculus fully as large as a hen’s egg. By this operation the stone may be removed piecemeal and at once,Avithout the necessity of dilating the urethra to such a degree as to incur the risk of incontinence of urine resulting. Lithotrity may be had recourse to at all ages, in the very young as Avell as the old. I have crushed and successfully removed a large calculus from a child three and a half years of age, the youngest patient on Avliom I have operated by this method. Although the uretlua of so young a female child cannot, Avithout danger of incontinence, be much dilated, yet it may safely and easily be enlarged sufficiently to admit a moderate-sized lithotrite. Fig. itOO.—Cmslier for large Calculus iii Female Bladder.