3 TREATMENT OF IN-GROWING NAIL. derised with a view of raising the edge of the nail, and pressing aside the soft structures. I have never, however, seen much permanent benefit result from any of these means : and the only method that is, I think, really serviceable to the patient, is the removal of the whole nail. As this operation is an excessively painful one, the patient should be anaesthetized with nitrous oxide, or the matrix should be rendered insensitive by the ether-spray. The Surgeon holds the diseased toe in his left hand, and then running one blade of a strong sharp-pointed pair of scissors under the nail up to its very root, he cuts through its whole length, and, removing the scissors, seizes first one half and then "the other Avith a pair of dissecting forceps, and twists them away from their attachments. The surface left is still covered by the deeper layer of the epithelium, and becomes covered Avith a dry layer of cuticle in a few days. The back of the scissors usually wounds the matrix in the middle line, and here gramdations may form. The new nail gTOWs straight and healthy. In some rare cases, however, I have seen a faulty direction assumed by it. If this should happen the nail must be again removed, and the matrix dissected away. AAudsion of the toe-nail is usually unattended by danger. I Avas, hoAvever, once called upon to amputate a foot for gangrene, which had followed the operation performed on an elderly person. Hypertrophy of Toe-Hail.—Occasionally from neglect the toe-nail may become enormously hypertrophied and tAA’isted, looking more like a horn than a nail, as in the accompanying draw- ing (Fig. 416), taken from a patient in whom the nail had been allowed to grow uncut for twenty years, producing complete lameness. I removed the nail Avhole by avulsion, and a sound and useful foot resulted. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Lupus.—Under the term lupus various affections of the skin were formerly included, having but little in common with each other beyond running a chronic course and leading to destruction of the cutaneous tissues, Avith or without ulceration. It is now limited to tAvo diseases Avhich, although in- cluded under the common name, are in reality quite distinct. These tAvo affections are distinguished as Lupus Erythematosus and Lupus Yulgaris. "When the term lupus is used alone it is applied only to the latter disease. Lupus Erythematosus.—This disease AAns originally described as a disease of the sebaceous follicles. Hebra in 1845 gave it the name of Seborrhoea Congestiva. It is now generally knoAAm by the name of Lupus Erythematosus. It consists essentially in a chronic inflammation, affecting chiefly the sebaceous follicles and the tissues immediately surrounding them. There is an increased secretion of seliaceous matter from the follicle by AA'hich the acini of the gland become dilated and the duct Avidened. The parts immediately surrounding the follicle shoAA' the ordinary signs of chronic inflammation, the capillaries being dilated and the tissues infiltrated Avith small round cells. The disease teiTninatcs in destruction of the follicles, and the chronic inflammatory pro- ducts partly degenerate and are absorbed, and partly become developed into cicatricial tissue. The disease commences as a shariily defined red patch, the colour of AA'liich disappears almost entirely on pressure. The redness is most marked round