EFFECTS OF THROMBOSIS—EMBOLISM. 55 proximal extremity ; septic disintegration of the clot follows, and the coats of the vein become inflamed from the contact of the irritating products of the process. Thus a spreading thrombosis, followed by disintegration of the clot ' and inflammation of tlic vein, may be set up. This is a condition frequently met with in pymmia, and is especially common in the infective inflammation of bone known as acute necrosis. In some cases of ])ymmia, thrombosis, with softenimr of the thrombus and inflammation of the coats of the vein, is met with in parts having no connexion with the original wound. Here also it is only reasonable to suppose that the irritating properties of the thrombus are due to the presence of the infective material in the blood from which it is formed. Simple coagulation of healthy blood in a vein does not cause acute inflammation of the coats of the vessel. After the operation for varix the vein can often be clearly felt on each side of the obliterated spot as a solid • cord, but none of the signs of phlebitis are present. The most serious consequence of venous thrombosis is Embolism, or the separation of a clot, and its entry into the circulation. When the formation of the thrombus has been due to mechanical injury, this complication rarely takes place. Occasionally, however, after a surgical operation or parturition, a large clot may be dislodged and cause sudden death by obstructing the pulmonar}' artery. If the clot is not large enough to obstruct the main trunk of the arteiy, it may lodge in a smaller branch. A typical case of this kind occurred not long ago in Univei’sity College Hospital. The patient had been confined to bed for some weeks with a compound dislocation of the ankle; the wound was nearly healed, and he was apparently in good health. He suddenly woke from sleep with a violent pain, whicli seemed to shoot up from his leg to his chest. There was immediately intense sense of dyspnoea, although the air entered the lungs freely; the pulse rose to 120, and the action of the heart was violent and iiTegular. The symptoms gradually subsided, and on the third day after the attack he expectorated a small quantity of blood. Within a few hours of the attack, the symptoms of obstruction of the femoral vein manifested themselves. It was slightly tender, and could be felt as a hard cord, and great oedema of the limb appeared. Some weeks after the veins of the opposite limb became plugged in the same way, but no embolism took place. Embolism is more commonly the result of softening and disintegration of the clot. It is possible tliat a healthy clot may in this way be removed without giving rise to any definite symptoms. When the softening is due to the septic changes in the thrombus, or when the clot is impregnated with the products of an infective inflammation of any kind, the virulent fragments set up inflammation wherever they lodge, giving rise to the form of general infection known as embolic pymmia. The pathological effects of simple and infective embolism have been already described (see Pyaemia, Vol. I.). A softening thrombus does not necessarily give rise to embolism. In the common fonn of so-called idiopathic phlebitis, suppuration frequently takes place round the thrombosed vein, the middle part of the thrombus is softened, the walls of the vein give way, and the debris of the clot are discharged A\ith the pus of the aljscess. In these cases a portion of the thrombus on each side remains unsoftened, and undergoes the ordinary changes observed in closure of a divided vessel. The Sympto.ms of thrombosis are merely those of obstruction of the vein.