URINARy CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 962 operation arc thrcc-fuld ; 1, in Finding the Stone; 2, in Entering the Bladder; and o, in Seizing and Extracting the Oalcnlns. 1. Difficulty in Finding the Stone, either ]jy tlie staff or tlie sound, mav exist before commencing the operation; and sometimes it is impossible to iinil the stone, although its presence may ha^e been distinctly and incontestably ascertained a few days previously. In these circunistances, the Sin-geon must on no account be tempted to ]>roceed with the operation; but, after a carefully conducted exploration has failed to elicit the actual presence of the stone, ail further proceedings must be deferred to another oppoitunity. ddie stone mav escape detection in three ways. 1. It may have been pjissed by the uretlira. between the first examination and the time fixed for tlie operation. A small calculus, especially if elongated and spindle-shaped, may give a very distinct click against the sound, and yet be not too large to pass through the urethra. 2. The stone may have become encysted. 3. It may have become enveloped in folds of the mucous membrane of the collapsed bladder, and so may escape contact Avith the sound. All these events, except the presence of an encysted calculus, are more likely to happen in children than in the adult, and it is in them that, for v'ant of attention to these precautions, the unfortunate accident of cutting into the bladder and finding no stone has most frequently occurred. 2. Difficulty in Entering the Bladder.—This is rarely e.xperienced in adults. It may, however, arise in consequence of the Singeon neglecting to keep the point of the knife Avell lodged in the groove of the staff, and thus letting it slip between the rectum and the bladder ; the tissue of Avhich, being broken up, leaves a kind of cavity that he mistakes for the interior of the bladder. If the perinEeum be very deep and the prostate enlarged, he may also experience some difficulty in reaching the bladder ; but he can scarcely fail to do so if he push the knife Avell on in the groove of the staff, and dilate the incision in the prostate with a blunt gorget, if his finger fail to reach the cavity beyond it. ‘ Perhaps the most serious obstacle to enter- ing the bladder consists in the presence of large tumours in the prostate. The com- bination of a deep perinmum, an enlarged prostate, and a tumour, certainly constitutes a formidable series of obstacles. In these cases, the finger Avhen slipped along the stall' does not enter the bladder, but becomes involved in the smooth find irregular sinuosities that wind between the prostatic tumours (Fig. 864). In such cases it is well to practise the manoeuvre that has already been described ; viz., of using the staff as a guide into the bladder, slipping the forceps along the side and concEvvity of this instrument before it is AvithdraAvn. In great and sometimes insuperable difficulty has been experienced in reaching the bladder. This difficulty Eirises in consequence of the small size of the urethra, the mobility of the bladder, and the ready lacerabilitA of the tissues. If, after the groove in the staff has been exposed, care be not taken to insinuate, as it Avere, the nail into the opening in the urethra thus