:\^^XFLORATIO^^ OF THE BLADDER BY THE FINGER. 1049 I J I *md ueck of the bladder with the fiii«‘er, feelinf^ for tlie tumour, and then a i| ’emoving- it by properly constructed forceps, by which it is seized and crushed II or torn away from the mucous membrane. The bladder is then washed out [pand drained with an elastic tube till all heemori’hage ceases, when the perineal j'!}.vound is allowed to heal. Thus it will be seen that three operations have been adopted for the removal I intra-vesical tumours, viz., cystotomy by the supra-pubic method ; cysto- |.iOmy by the lateral perineal incisions, and urethrotomy by the median perineal ncisions. The operation that the Surgeon will select must necessarily in a L^’eat measure depend upon the size and consistence of the tumour. When his is very lai’ge and firm, as in Billroth’s and Humphry’s cases, cystotomy I )y one or other of the methods adopted by these Surgeons will be required ; || vhen of smaller size and soft, urethrotomy, with dilatation of the neck of fi-he bladder, as adopted by Thompson, suffices for the extraction of the growth, kind being the simpler and less dangerous method should be adopted. In papilloma and myoma of the female bladder the m’ethra should be 5 [ liJated so as to admit the fore-finger; along this the sharp spoon, or Thompson’s .breeps may be slipped and the growth scraped away or crushed off. C'a2»’cer of the Bladder.—The bladder is not a common seat of primary .:ancer ; it is more often implicated by the extension of malignant disease from '.ome neighbouring part, as the rectum or uterus. According to Walshe, it never appears before the 40th year. The form of cancer occurring in the ffadder as a primary disease is squamous epithelioma. Scirrhus is said to lave been met with, bub most probably it commenced in the prostate and not n the bladder itself. Epithelioma of the bladder often commences on the <x)sterior surface, extending secondarily to the trigone. The ulcerating surface of the tumour occasionally becomes encrusted with phosphatic deposit, and )<»metimes a phosphatic calculus may form in the diseased bladder, and thus iidd gi’eatly to the intense pain that usually attends this affection. The Symptoms it gives rise to are intense dysuria, with discharge of blood, and 'viscid mucus, in which fragments of the tumour may be found. Ho conclu- >rfon of any kind can be drawn from single cells ; it is only when a distinct group of cells is found, possibly attached to a portion of stroma, that any •opinion can be formed as to their source. In a case under the care of Berkeley Hill, the nest-like aiTangement of the epithelial cells was recognized in some fragments passed in the urine. Sir H. Thompson states that the iliagnosis of cancer fi'om simple tumours may be made by the age of the oatient, and by the fact that pain and frequency of micturition appear early, often before the blood.- The rapid progress of the disease, and the intensity )f the patient’s sufferings, differ widely from the slow' progress and slight dis- al'3omfort caused by simple tumours during the early peiiod of their develop- ment. AVhen secondary to rectal cancer, a communication will usually have been established between the tw'o cavities through which flatus and faeces pass into ithe bladder, and thus greatly aggravate the patient’s sufferings. fl’he Treatnmit of cancer of the bladder is necessarily of a purely palliative ^ character, for in these miserable cases nothing of a curative character cjin be t iattempted. Morphia hypodermically administered, the frequent use ol’ the ■catheter, with disinfectant injections, possibly drainage of the bladder through a median perineal section, and, in those cases that arc secondary to rectal cancer,