297 NECROSIS—REMOVAL OF SEQUESTRUM. i must be enlarged, either with the gouge or the trephine, according to the ; density of the new case, and the amount of room required. Occasionally, when ! two cloacm are close to one another, the intervening bridge of bone may very con- j veniently be removed by means of cutting pliers, of different shapes (as in Figs, j 508, 509, and 510), or by means of a Key’s or a straight narrow saw having a j movable back to stiffen the blade (Fig. 512), and space thus given for the ex- traction of the sequestrum. Very convenient pliers for this purpose are those represented in Fig. 511. They are made Avith gouge ends, and hence may be termed gmiije-forceps. I nave found them extremely serviceable in many operations upon the bones. Care, however, should be taken not to remove more of the new case than is absolutely necessaiy, lest the ultimate soundness of the limb be endangered. In necrosis of the lower end of the femur the bone sur- rounding the sequestrum is often so peculiarly dense that it can be cut away so as to expose the dead bone only by the means of a chisel and mallet, used with con- siderable force. For the extraction of the sequestrum, the most convenient in- strument is a pair of strong necrosis-forceps, well roughened at their ex- tremity, and straight or bent as the case may require (Fig. 513). Occasionally the sequestrum is so shaped and placed that it cannot be seized with this in- strument ; in these circumstances it will be useful to drive a screw-probe (Fig. 114) into it, by which it may either be extracted, or so fixed as to admit of seizure and removal by the forceps. In some cases, additional and convenient purchase may be obtained, by fixing a bone-forceps, such as is represented in Fig. 514, fii'mly into the dead bone. If the sequestrum be too large to be removed entire through the cloacse, it may perhaps best be extracted piece- meal, having been previously divided by passing the points of narrow but strong cutting-pliers into the interior of the bone. After the removal of the sequestrum, a smooth holloAv cavity Avill be left in the neAv case, from the bottom and sides of which blood usually wells up freely, issuing abundantly from the vascular bone, and from the granulations lining its interior. Should this hmmoiThage be at all troublesome, elevation of the limb and pressure Avill always arrest it without difficulty. In the subsequent treatment the chief trouble arises from the accumulation of discharges'in the cavity from Avhich the bone has been removed, where they are prone to become excessively foul. To prcA-ent this the cavity should be washed out with chloride of zinc solution (gr. xx. to 5j-) immediately after the operation and some crystalline iodoform sprinkled in it. It may then be dressed with sjvlicylic or iodoform-wool. In tins way it can often very soon be brought into a condition to require dressing only about once a Aveek. If these dressings are not at hand, carbolic oil, terebene and oil, or glycerine and carbolic acid, may be applied, and the Avound Avell syringed Avith Condy’s fluid. If the se-