DISEASES OF TUE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 20 The operation is thus performed. Tlie patient is laid upon his face and a vertical incision, about three inches in length, is made a little above the middle of the back of the thigh. The deep fascia is opened and the contiguous borders of the semi-tendinosus and biceps are separated with the finger. The wound being now held open by copper spatulas, the sciatic nerve comes into view and is raised out of the wound by passing the finger beneath it, the knee being flexed to relieve it from tension. It is then pulled forcibly in both directions. Marshall has demonstrated that any force which can be applied while holding the nerve between the finger and thumb | may safely be used. The experiments of Johnson, Trombetta, Ceccherelli, and others, have shown that the breaking strain of a healthy nerve is never under eighty pounds. The wound after the operation must be carefully drained and dressed by some antiseptic method, and it is better to apply an anterior splint for a week or ten days. Some Surgeons prefer exposing the nerve at a higher point, below the lower border of the gluteus maximus. If the operation be performed at this point, j the whole of the ham-string muscles must be drawn together to the inner side of the wound, and the nerve sought for external to them. If necessary, the lower fibres of the gluteus may be divided. There is no particular advantage in this mode of operating, and the resulting wound is deeper and more difficult to treat owing to its situation. Trombetta and Billroth have suggested stretching the nerve by means of forcible flexion of the hip with the knee extended and the foot flexed. That a very great strain can be put upon the nerve in this way is evident, and the method might very well be tried before proceeding to the more severe opera- tion just described. It is best done by flexing the thigh fully on to the abdomen with the knee bent, and then, while the thigh is fixed, extending the leg. The mode of action of nerve-stretching in sciatica is uncertain. The con- ^ ductivity of the sciatic nerve is not affected at all, or only to a very slight degree, by force used in the operation. It has been suggested that it acts by breaking down adhesions either amongst the fibres or between the sheath and | suiTOunding structures. Marshall believes it acts by stretching or even rupturing the small nervi nervorum ramifying in the nemilemma and m the j| epineurium, which must be more or less implicated and pressed upon by any J inflammatory growth or exudation in chronic neuritis. i NEUBALQIA. Neuralgia frequently occurs in surgical practice, either complicating other diseases, or as a distinct affection simulating closely various organic lesions, more especially of joints and bones. Symptoms.—The pain in neuralgia is the essential symptom. It may be of two kinds ; either following anatomically the course of a nerve and the distribution of its filaments ; or affe6ting a considerable portion of the surface without reference to any special nerve. It is of all degrees of severity, sometimes moderate, sometimes unbearable, even by those who possess the greatest fortitude ; when severe, it usually comes on suddenly, with a kind of shock, and continues of a sharp, darting, or tearing charac- ter, coursing along the trunk or ramifications of the affected nerve, the