JiADICAL CURE OF VARICOCFLF. 1165 operation, and tlie niaii afterwards entered the ser\’ice. 2. In some cases, the presence of a varicocele of inordinate size causes a distressing^ sense of weight and pain in the loins and groins, and often inability to stand or walk for any length of time. Here, when the patient is in continual discomfort, or more or less prevented from pursuing his ordinary avocations—in fact, quite crippled—it is perfectly justifiable to resoit to operation. o. Ayiien atrophy of the testicle is a consequence of the pressure of the blood in the veins, an operation may be performed. 4. Cases not uncommonly occur Avhere the pressure of the enlarged veins on the spermatic nerves produces repeated attacks of spermatorrhoea. These cases are, however, more frequently met with out of hospitals, than in individuals of the class who apply to such institutions for relief. In fact, young men of the more highly educated classes are very subject to varicocele, especially those who habitually lead a sedentary and studious life, as, for instance, young clerg}mren and lawyers. In these persons a peculiarly hypochondriacal state is brought on by the tendency of the mind to dwell on the condition of the genital organs, and the patient is constantly fidgeting about the local and tangible disease he observes in them. The radical cure of this condition may be p)roduced by excitijig inflammatory thrombosis of the spermatic veins, through an application of the same prin- ciple which sets up that process in the veins of the lower extremity. There' are several different ways of doing this ; some are very objectionable. The twisted suture, as applied to the veins of the leg, induces too great irritation in the scrotum, and there its introduction is often followed by violent in- flammation or sloughing, or by an opening up of the areolar tissue of the scrotum with oedema, and even purulent infiltration. It is better, I think, not to use this method here ; indeed I have twice, in the practice of others, seen it followed by death. The plan I have adopted for some years is that suggested and practised by Yidal de Cassis, and is as follows. The vas deferens, readily distinguished by its round cord-like feel, is first separated from the veins, and entrusted to an assistant; next, an iron pin bored with a hole at each end (Fig. 9(J7), is passed between the vas and the veins, and brought out attlie point of perforation, tlie scrotum being first notched with a scalpel ; then a silver wire, threaded on a needle so constructed that the wire Fig. 007.—Iron Pin for Treatmout of Varicocdi'. Fig. (108.—Si>lit Nmlle tliroaded witli Silver Wire. .shall follow it without catching (Fig. 9lib), is passed in at the aperture of entry