1^5 TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. justify the Surgeon in repeating an attempt of this kind, opposed as it is to the known principles on which the distal operation effects a cure.* For, sup- posing, as we may sjifely do, with AVardrop, that only one-third of the blood that is sent into the innominate finds its way through the cxtra-scalenal por- tion of the subclavian, the remainder being destined for its branches and the airotid in equal proportions, what fact can be adduced or pi'iiiciple laid down from which we can expect to obtain the cure of an aneurism in close pi-oximity to the heart, by cutting oft' for a short time only so small a proportion as one- third of the supply of blood sent into it ? As soon as tlie collateral vessels have dilated the flow of blood through the artery will be the same as before the operation, as the supply of blood to the upper limb is maintained by means of the anastomoses of the branches of the first and second part of the sub- cUn ian with those of the axillary artery. 2. Ligature of the Carotid only (Pig. 4G8) for innominate aneurism • was first performed by Evans in 1828. The tmnour diminished for a few days . after operation, but at the end of seven days inflammation of the sac set in, ' followed by obliteration of arteries of right arm and the branches of the carotid. At the end of a year tumour still existed, with constant pulsation. . Next year the sac suppurated, and discharged much pus. Since that time the ( operation has been repeated by Mott, Aston Key, Fergusson, Hutchinson, Piro- j goff, and many others, amounting in all, according to Holmes, to nineteen cases. In only one case, that operated on by Evans, does the disease appear to have been ’ materially benefited ; and in that instance the good effects can scarcely be I attributed to the operation, but must rather be looked upon as the result of i suppuration of the sac and consequent obliteration of the arteries of the arm 1 and head of the affected side. Key’s patient died in consequence of the left ■ carotid becoming occluded and the brain being deprived of its proper supply . of blood ; and in several other cases death is referred to hemij)legia and t other cerebral diseases. 3. The Carotid and Subclavian Arteries (Fig. 4G9) were tied simul- I taneously for the relief of innominate aneimsm for the first time by Rossi in 1843, but there is some doubt as to the part of the artery to which the ligatiu’c ' was applied. Since that time the operation has been performed by Dm-ham, 1 Holmes, McCarthy, AVeir, Lane, Pollock, Stimson, Little, Langley Browne, . Barwell, Bergman n, and others. According to Holmes the total number of » cases up to 1882 amounted to twenty, to which Bergmann’s case must be t added. In seven cases, marked improvement followed the operation. Stimson’s 1 patient survived the operation twenty-one months. Four months after the i operation he was suddenly attacked by left hemiplegia and aphasia after which the I tumour diminished in size rapidly. He partially recovered from the paralysis. - After death the third part of the subclavian and the carotid Avere ascertained 3 to be obliterated ; the sac of the aneurism was about the size of a hen’s egg, i and communicated with the subclavian, all the branches of Avhich, except t the internal mammary (which could not be found) were patent. Little’s case S lived three-arid-a-half yeara, dying at last of pleurisy. The aneurism was ) practically cured, Init a channel existed through it to the subclavian. Of J Banvell’s four cases, one died from the anmsthetic, and three were successful. OperatioriH for Iimoniiimte AneuriKiu given in former editions have not been reproduced, M the ntunlHjr has so greatly increased of lute years as to iimke it iniiMmsible to record all without occuovinJ too much space. * ^