69 X.EVUS—rROGNOSIS—TREATMENT. i :lio Itack some (jiiitc us large as an orange. 'I'iiey occur less Irequcntly upon the head and Face tlian the capillary form of the disease ; most of the instances diat I hav'e seen have l)een met with in the lower part ol the Ixxly, about the nates, back, lower extremities, and organs of generation. AVhen a venous mevus is ])urely subcutaneous, it forms a soft, doughy tumour, often clearly defined in outline. Its most characteristic feature is that it can be diminished by jwessure, on the removal of which it slowly fills out again to as large a size as before ; it also becomes distended when the child k-reams or struggles. It is usually oval, smooth, and uniform in outline. Occasionally the surrounding veins are bluish and enlarged. Oysts are sometimes found in mevi containing a dark fluid. They result from obliteration of the communication between some of the spaces of the mevus and the vessels which carry off the blood. The tumours once sup- |s)sed to he consolidated nmvi, with cysts scattered through them containing clear fluid, are now regarded as of lymphatic origin. riiOGNOSis.—The natural history of nmvi has yet to he learnt—we have yet to ascertain what becomes of them when left to themselves. They are so commonly removed by operation, that hitherto Surgeons have had but few ;opportunities of determining this. I have, however, seen several cases in which from various circumstances no operation had been performed, and I have been struck with the tendency that there is in the cutaneous na3vus to disjippear. If left untouched, or subjected to continuous pressure, islands or patches of Avhite skin will gradually appear on the reddened surface. These will slowly increase and coalesce, and then the nasvus, becoming gradually less vascular, may in time disappear. Subcutaneous venous naevi will sometimes gradually shrink, but the active erectile naevus is pro- gressive. There is usually a fear expressed of naevi, if left without surgical interference, leading to dangerous or even fatal hemorrhage. This I have never seen; indeed, if the nevus ulcerates its tissue hardens, and the vessels become blocked up by coagulum and hence less disposed to bleed. TiiEATiiEXT.—In the treatment of nevus, the first point to be determined is whether the case should be left to nature, or Avhether operative measures tshould Ikj had recourse to. In deciding this point we must be guided by the size, situation, and character of the morbid growth. If this be small, cutaneous. Land superficial, so situated that it occasions little or no disfigurement, and if it show no tendency to increase, it may be left without interference ; when, as just stated, it may eventually shrivel and disappear, or become converted into a kind of mole. In some cases this process may be hastened by the application of tincture of iodine or liquor plumbi. In other cases, again, the iimviis, though cutaneous and superficial, is so widely diffused over the surface, that no attemj)t at its removal or destruction can be entertained with prudence. But, if the mevus be large, if it be subcutaneous, or if it incretise in size, or if it l)e so situated as to occasion disfigurement, means must then be adopted for its removal by operative procedure. Opna.tiom for the removal of naevi may be conducted on six principles :— 1, to excite adhesive inflammation in them, and so to produce plugging and obliteration of the vascular tissue of which they are composed ; 2, to destrov the growth by caustics ; 3, to remove it by the cautery ; 4, to consolidate ft by electrolysis ; y, to remove it Avith the knife ; or, (I, to remove it by ligature.