CONTRA CTION OF KNEE IVITJI LA TEIIA L JJISPLA CEMENT. 519 be avoided by keeping; tlie side of the tenotome well against the inner edge of the biceps tendon, then turning the edge outwards, when passed-deeply enough. The semitendinosus next recpiires division. The semimembranosus need not often be cut across. After the division of the tendons, tense aponeurotic bands Avill not unfrequcntly be found to stretch along one or both sides, or perhaps down the eentre of the popliteal space. This may lead to the idea on the part of the Surgeon that he has not fairly cut the tendons across; but this is an error. The bands alluded to are condensed sharp-edged prolongations of the fascia lata, formed during the period of contraction of the joint by the shrinking and thickening of this membranous expansion. Such condensations as these had better be left untouched, as they Avill readily stretch out under gradual extension, or be ruptured by forcible traction of the limb. If, on the other hand, the Surgeon be tempted by their apparently superficial and safe position to proceed to their division, he may be brought more closely into contact with the popliteal vessels than is desirable or safe. In these cases, the anatomical relations of parts are so much altered by the narrowing of the popliteal space, and by the projection of the head of the tibia backwards, or by its lateral rotation, that the Surgeon is unable to calculate with sufficient nicety the precise position of the large vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood of which he is about to act; and he may thus injure one or other of these at a time when he thinks that he is operating at a safe distance from them. After di^'ision of the hamstrings, the knee does not commonly come readily into the straight position, owing to the shortening of the posterior ligament; and gradual extension, by means of proper apparatus, will be required to overcome this and to stretch the adhesions within and around the joint. Contraction with Lateral Displacement is not nnfrequently met with. In these cases the knee is contracted more or less in the angular direction ; but, in addition to this, the lower end of the thigh-bone is directed inwards and perhaps somewhat forwards, and the tibia is rotated outwards, carrying the foot with it. There is thus a triple deformity—angular, mesial, and rotatory. I believe the angular to be the primary deformity, and the mesial and rotatory to be secondary to this, arising partly from the efforts of the patient to walk by resting on the point of the great toe, and throwing the thigh inwards in order to effect this, and partly from the action of the biceps rotating the leg outwards. The Trcaimcnl of these cases is not very satisfactory. The obstacle to the restoration of the normal position of the joint is dependent, so far as the angular contraction is concerned, on shortening of the ligamentum posticum, and the rotatory displacement is kept up and rendered intractable by shorten- ing of the anterior crucial ligament. Mere extension of the limb, whether gradual or forced, may counteract the angular deformity ; but it will not oidy leave the other displacements uninfluenced, but may actually increase the di3})laccmcnt of the tibia backwards and the rotation of the leg outwards. A leg-and-thigh splint, such as in Fig. G30, but having, instead of the springs, a rack-and-pinion apparatus working on three centres, so as to extend the limb, abduct the knee, and rotate the leg inwards, is the only contrivance by which this deh^miity can be counteracted, and the limb restored to shape. In reference to the treatment of these various deformities of the extremities, it may be stated generally that it is much easier to rectify faulty position than to restore mobility. The fii*st may always be done by the various means that