350 DISEASES OF JOINTS. roiigli, being devoid of cartilage. In such cases tliere is little to be done by medicines; bnt the treatment must be conducted on the same principles as in the same affection attacking the hip. Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis of the Shoulder.—Wlicn it affects the shoulder, chronic rheumatoid arthritis gives rise to a considerable enlargement of the liead of the humerus, wasting and rigidity of the deltoid, and inability to move the elbow upwards, except by the rotation of the scapula on the trunk. In foot, the scapulo-humeral articulation being fixed, all movements of the shoulder are effected through the medium of the scapula, which becomes more mobile than natural. The articulation is the seat of much pain, laucinating at times, but generally gnawing and intermittent, being dependent on the state of the weather, and greatly increased in cold and wet seasons. The whole of the arm becomes wasted, and weakened in power. In two instances I have seen this disease in young and otherwise robust and healthy men, between twenty and thirty years of age, coming on without any apparent cause. In both cases the joint continued permanently rigid, though the pain was relieved by the use of the iodides and by local counter-irritation. I y i 1 I i , 5 :i DISEASES OF JOINTS OP CEBEBRAL OR SPINAL ORIGIN. The so-called arthrojiathies occurring as the result of diseases of the central nervous system may be divided, according to Charcot, into two classes. 1. Arthropathy of Paralysed Limbs.—Acute or subacute inflammation with considerable swelling from effusion into the joint, and more or less severe pain, is occasionally observed in the articulations of limbs paralyzed from acute or subacute inflammation of the spinal cord. Mitchell has observed it in paraplegia from Pott’s disease; Vigu^s, Joffroy, and Sir William Gull as the result of paralysis from traumatic lesion of the cord ; Scott Alison, and others have also met with a similar affection of the joints in limbs paralysed from circumscribed cerebral softening, or intra-cephalic hminon-hage. It comes on at the same time as the contraction of the muscles commences, usually fifteen days to a month after the paralysis has set in. It has no tendency to end in suppuration. 2. Arthropathy of Ataxic Patients or Charcot’s Disease.—This condition was first described by Charcot. It occurs in patients suffering from locomotor ataxy, setting in without appreciable cause, usually at that period of the disease when want of co-ordination in the muscular movements becomes apparent. It commences with a general and often enonnous swelling of the limb, commonly without pain or fevei*. After a few days the general swelling disappears, but the joint remains distended with fluid. Sometimes the bursrn in the neighbourhood of the articulation are also distended. The fluid if drawn oft" is found to be transparent, and of a pale lemon colour. At the end of some weeks or months the swelling subsides, and the joint may return to its normal state. In the more typical cases, however, crackling appears on movement a few weeks after the commencement of the attack, the ligaments become relaxed as the effusion is absorbed, the osseous surfaces become altered in form by wearing away, and consecutive dislocations are not uncommon. Even under these circumstances, however, some degree of mobility is left in the limb. The joint most commonly affected is the knee, then comes the shoulder, then the elbow, the hip, and the wrist. The pathological appearances found after death arc similar to, and in many cases