335 VARIETIES OF ACUTE ARTHRITIS. ^ shoulder. The first symptom is restricted movement with pain, rapidly •; followed by swellin«^, and the formation of pus. In some cases two or tlmee i joints are atfected. If the abscess is opened early, recovery may take place ; a ankylosis rarely results, but more commonly a Aveak movable joint is left. ITlie disease is fatal in a considerable proportion of cases. In the 21 cases f recorded by T. Smith, the ages of the patients Avere as follows: 8 under 1 a month, 4 under 2, 7 betAveen 2 and G, and 3 over G months. The post- B mortem examination of the fatal cases showed rapid loss of substance in the e articular end of one of the long bones entering into the joint. Acute Arthritis „ of Infants does not seem to be a separate disease. Some of the recorded cases ^ were probably pytemic ai’ising in very young infants fit’orn infection from the < imibilical cord; others were instances of acute epiphysitis occurring in young children. Senile Acute Arthritis.—There is occasionally but very rarely met Avith, a form of acute arthiitis occurring independently of any external cause, but apparently due to necrosis of the cartilages, from simple loss of vitality in old i persons of feeble constitution. I have seen it in the joints of the foot, the * ankle, and the sterno-clavicular articulation. It resembles in this respect that I form of senile necrosis of bones described at p. 289. In the senile arthritis now alluded to the pain is very acute, the enlargement of the joints con- siderable, the wasting of muscle rapid and great. The constitutional disturb- iance is proportionately severe. The joint that it most frequently affects is the kknee. I have seen it also in the wrist. This form of ai’thritis must not be confounded Avith the dry rheumatic arthritis of old people. It differs from this form of the disease in the acuteness of its local symptoms, and the severity of the constitutional disturbance. It is often mistaken in the first ■.instance for gout; but the rapidity of the process, the formation of pus Arithin and around the joint, the necrosis of the contiguous bones, and the separation of the incrusting cartilages, all indicate the different nature of this affection; which, so far as the joint itself is concerned, is incurable, and which may terminate in the loss of the patient’s life. On examining the joint after removal, the cartilages Avill be found to be r alcerated, the synovial membrane softened, swoUen, and injected; the liga- r ments softened, and the articular osseous ends congested. Repair.—Should the patient recover from acute arthritis Avithout removal of the joint by amputation or excision, the processes of repair will vary with the extent of the mischief done before the arrest of the disease. The inflamed ligaments seldom recover their normal condition. The inflammatory products with which they are infiltrated are partly absorbed, and partly developed into dense fibrous tissue. This process is accompanied frequently by some con- traction, so that Avhen it is completed the natural mobility of the joint is more or less interfered with. Should the position of the joint during the attack have led to relaxation of any ligament, as for instance, of the ilio-femoral from flexion of the hip, the ligament becomes shortened as the joint recovers, 80 that the position assumed during the acute stage becomes a fixed one. In the synovial membrane the inflamed surfaces, Avhich have lost their endothelial covering and liecome covered with granulation-tissue, adhere to each other wherever they are in contact, and thus the synovial pouches become obliterated. If the cartilages have been but A^ery superficially ulcerated, they may become again smooth Avithout forming adhesions between the