EXCISIOX OF SHOULDER. 3^9 vith, and if the incision he not carried too low, the insertion of the pectoralis najor will be at most only partially cut through. It is rcconiineiided by 5ome Surgeons to make a small opening behind through which a draiiiage- ' ube can be passed, emerging a little below the acromion. In doing this care nust be taken to keep well above the posterior circumflex arteiy. By this neaus drainage is certainly facilitated, and the healing of the anterior Avound s hastened. Should the extent of the disease or injury prove to be so great as to require imputation of the limb, this may readily be done, as has been suggested by >pence of Edinburgh, by carrying the knife roimd the inner side of the limb. Old so detaching the member, with due attention to those points in comiection rith the axillary artery that have been described at p. 74, vol. I. The result, s seen by the annexed drawing (Fig. 535), is A^ery satisfactory. The elliptical operation of excision may be performed in the foUoAving way. A. curved incision is made, commencing at the posterior part of the acromion, eaching doAvnwards to the insertion of the deltoid, and terminating at the :uter side of the coracoid process. By a feAV touches of the scalpel, a large .ap composed of the deltoid muscle may thus be raised, and the diseased .rticulation fully exposed. As in the operation just described, an attempt .hould be made to sa\’e the capsule and maintain its connection Avith the >erio8teum. For this purpose a longitudinal incision should be made through he capsule, and it should be stripped off with the tendons and periosteum by •leans of the periosteal elevator, aided by the Imife when necessary. The head >eing pushed out may then be removed with a narroAV saAV. The shaft of the lumerus should be encroached upon as little as possible, so that the ann may :ot be shortened more than is necessary. After the removal of the head of the bone, the glenoid caAuty must be xamined. If this be merely superficially carious it may be let alone, but hould it be more deeply diseased, Avith cavities hollowed out in it, perhaps ontaining sequestra, the diseased part must be removed by means of gouge- orceps and the gouge, care being taken that all diseased bone is thoroughly cooped away. After the opei’ation, the flap must be laid doAvn and retained n position by sutures, and a drainage-tube inserted behind. VOL. II. Fig. 534.—Excision of Shoulder-joint. Longitudinal Incision. Fig. 535.—Stump after Amputation at Shoulder- joint by Spence’s method. B B