225 OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA—SYMPTOMS. CHAPTER XLV. 1 ANEURISMS OF TEIE ABDOMEN AND LOAVER EXTREMITIES. * ANEUKISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA AND ITS BRANCHES. As, until recently, any surgical treatment of these aneurisms was considered impossible, they were left entirely in the hands of the physician; but since the introduction of compression of the aorta under prolonged anassthesia, by Murray of Newcastle, they have become fau’ly entitled to a place in a work on Surgery. Aneurism may alfect the abdominal aorta at any part of its course, but the most common situation is near the origin of the coeliac axis ; and here the disease is often not confined to the main trunk, but one or more of the branches are also affected. The situation next in order of frequency is at or near the bifurcation. Aneurisms may form in connection also with any of the main branches of the abdominal aorta, most fi-equently on the superior mesenteric, splenic, and inferior mesenteric. The aneurism may be sacculated or tubular. "When growing from the main trunk, it is usually of the former variety. SY3IPT03IS.—The chief sign of the disease is the existence of a pulsating tumour, situated in or near the middle line, somewhere between the costal margin and the region of the umbilicus. The pulsation of the tumour is of the expansile kind characteristic of aneurism, and there is frequently a distinct bruit. 'Walshe mentions a single systolic murmur, a dull muffled systolic sound convertible into a murmur by a httle pressure, a sharp, abrupt, short systolic mm-mur on the left side of the lumbar spine, a systolic murmur audible below the sac, but not over it, and occasionally a dull second sound, as having been heard in various cases of abdominal aneurism. The exact shape and size of the tumour and the nature of its pulsation can in many cases be ascertained only by fully relaxing the abdominal muscles by the use of chloroform. The sensation of pulsation in the epigastrium may be very perceptible to the patient, or may be entirely absent. Constant aching lumbar pain is a very frequent symptom. The pressure-signs are not usually A'ery marked till late in the disease. Pressure on the vena cava to such an extent as to cause oedema of the lower extremities is almost unknown. The sac may press on the lumbar plexus, and give rise to signs of irritation in the course of its branches. The most marked of these are pains in the groin and testicles from in-itation of the genito-crural, and occasionally shooting pains dowil the thigh, in the course of the anterior crural or external cutaneous nerve. AYhen the bodies of the vertebraa are eroded, constant lumbar pain will be frequently present, of the same luirning, boring character as that felt in thoracic aneurism under similar circumstances. In some cases the pressure may affect the great intestine, causing considerable difficulty in defecation. Occasionally the tumour may attain to aji cnonnous size before death, half filling the cavity of VOL. II. o