io8 ANEURISM. such a tongh and clastic material as the stratified fibrinc, must greatly tend to deaden and break the force of the wave of blood that is projected against wbat would otherwise be an unprotected membrane. Another gi-eat purpose it serves to lessen is the eapiicity of the sac, and thus to diminish the pressure on surrounding parts, the distending force of the aneurism being proportional to the area of the sac as Avell as to the force with which the blood is driven into it. In those cases in which the laminated fibrine is small in quantity or altogether deficient, the aneurisinal tumour rapidly increases with a forcible pulsation that is not met with in other circumstances. The dark coagulum oi- passive clot of Broca is a less efficient support to the wall of an aneurism than the colourless or active clot. It is much softer in consistence, and at first contains a considerable amount of serum ; this gradually squeezes out as the clot contracts and thus it becomes considerably diminished in bulk. If the clot completely fills the sac this contraction may possibly be followed by the re-establishment of a cavity, but the experience of some of the modern modes of treatment shows that it is not very likely to occur, the contraction of the clot being accompanied by a corresponding diminution in the size of the^ sac, chiefly due to the pressure of the smTounding structures. The clot further diminishes from the disintegra- tion of the red corpuscles which form the chief part of its bulk. As this takes place it becomes decolourized, and thus, if the sac is only partly filled by a dark clot, this becomes flattened out and finally forms a layer indistin- guishable from the laminse of colourless fibrin. Pressure-Effects.—As the sac of an aneurism enlarges, it exerts inj urious and often fatal effects by its pressure upon contiguous parts. These pressure- effects deserve attentive study, as they constitute an important and, in some instances, the sole element in the diagnosis of aneurism. The pressure on the surrounding parts increases with the size of the sac. Dr. W. H. Stone thus describes the influence of increase in size on pressure. “ The hydi-ostatic force rises rapidly as the sac enlarges ; in fact in a modified geometrical ratio as against a simple aritlnnetical increase of the heart’s impulse. We are thus from the first losing ground, and the malady is gaining on us according to some simple function of the fundamental law of equality of pressm’e in all directions. Haughton estimates the hmmostatic pressure of the blood in the human arteries as equal to a column of 9’923 feet. Taking the aneurism as of 3 inches in diameter, its internal surface will be 28'27 square inches, which gives a tension of 12'24 pounds. If the sac rises to 4 inches diameter, this increases to 50'26 inches of surface and to a tension of nearly 25 pounds.” One of the most common pressure-effects of aneurism is the occurrence of cedema of the limb or part, owing to the compression exercised by the tumour upon the large and deep venous trunics in its vicinity. The consequent ob- struction to the venous circulation in the interior of the limb may give rise also to a distended or varicose condition of the subcutaneous vessels, and iii some instances it may even go on to the production of gangrene. The pres- sure of the sac, also, on neighbouring arteries, or even on the upper part of the very vessel from which it springs, and its interference with the general capillary circulation of a part, is commonly associated with compression of the veins, and may considerably increase the ill-consequences resulting from it. The pressure upon a neighboining artery may go on to perforation of the vessel by the sac, and so a communication between the two may be set uj);