1150 DISEASES OF TJIE TESTIS AND CORD. when euon<>-h has escaped, the further flow may be arrested by layiiifr tlie patient down and elevating the part. If there be much effusion into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, relief may be afforded by puncturing this sac with the point of a lancet. Puncture of the testis itself, which has been recommended, is a needless and dangerous proceeding. I have known of a case in which it was followed by abscess in the gland, ending in its complete destruction. The Gonstiiutional Treatment during the acute stage consists in the adminis- tration of salines and antimony, with henbane in full doses, so as to give an aperient, a diaphoretic, and a sedative together ; when this begins to act, gi-eat relief is usually afforded. As the inflammation subsides, the treatment must be changed. When there is merely swelling and hardness left, with but little pain or tenderness, the testis may advantageously be strapped with adhesive plaster, so as to give good support and to promote absorption of plastic matter. Fricke of Hamburg has strongly recommended strapping in the acute stage ; but I cannot say that I have ever seen any advantage derived from it at this period of the disease, though I have many times seen it tried ; it has. usually appeared to me to increase, sometimes very considerably, the pain in the part, and the general uneasiness. In Subacute Orchitis much benefit is usually derived from a short coui*se of Dover’s powder and calomel, with early strapping of the testis. When the organ has become enlarged and indurated, as the result of chronic inflam- mation, it may be advantageously strapped either with simple plaster, or with one composed of equal parts of the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrai’gyi’o and soap-plaster; mercury in small doses, more especially the bichloride, being continued for some length of time, until the inflammatory products are absorbed and the hardness disappears. In Strapping a Testicle, the scrotum should be shaved, and then di’awn tightly upwards on the affected side. The Surgeon should next pass a long strip of plaster, at least an inch broad, above the enlarged testicle and round the corresponding side of the scrotum, so as to isolate it, as it were. Another strip is now passed from behind, in a longitudinal direction, over the lower end of the testis, and upwards upon the anterior part of the scrotum : and then, by a succession of horizontal and vertical strips, neatly overlapping and drawn tightly, the organ is completely enveloped and compressed. To be of any service, the strapping must be tightly and evenly applied ; but at the same time care must be taken not to strangulate the scrotum by drawing down the upper strips of plaster too forcibly. In a case of syphilitic disease of the testis, in which I Avas obliged to have recourse to castration, the whole of the side of the scrotum had sloughed away, leaving the testis exposed and fuugat- ing, in consequence of the tight strapping Avhich had been employed before the case came into my hands. After the SAvelling has subsided, the patient must wear a suspensory bandage for some months. The Induration about the Epididymis, which usually remains after epididy- mitis, must be treated by prolonged counter-irritation with tincture of iodine, or by the application of the iodide of lead or iodine-ointment. So long as anv induration is left, it is doubtful whether the secretion is able to find its way through the thickened epididymis.