607 RESTORATIOJ OF THE ENTIRE NOSE. twisted suture, which should he left in for about four days. TJuiou takes place iu a few days ; hut until this is firm, the new columua must be properly supported with narrow strips of plaister fixed to the cheek on each side. No twisting of this small flap is required, as the mucous surface speedily becomes- ciitaueous, and vice versa. The division in the upper lip must be treated in the same way as an ordinary hare-lip, and unites without difficulty, lessening gi-eatly the deformity in this part. Ala.—When one ala only is deficient, the rest of the nose being sound, one of three processes may be adopted to remedy the deformity. 1. When a small portion only of the ft-ee border of the tip has been lost, an incision should be made (Fig. G91) across the nose, and the remains of the ala and a portion of the nasal integument thus marked out dis- sected dowm, and attached to the end of the organ. In this way a veiy excellent result may be obtained. 2. If the loss of substance be greater, a flap of skin, of the proper shape to restore the deformity, may be raised from the cheek, applied to the previously pared edges of the part re- quiring it, and fixed there by a few points of fine suture. 3. If the loss of the substance of the ala be very consider- able, or if it extend to a part of the body of the nose, then it is more efficiently restored by bringing a long narrow flap from the forehead in away that will immediately be described. In the majority of cases, the destruction of the ala and of the body of the nose is so considerable, that other plans, to be pre- jpjg egi.—Deficiency sently described, are required for the repair of the deformity. ofAiaofXose. Entire Nose.—For the restoration of the entire nose, two procedures have been employed : viz., 1, the Tagliacotian Operation ; 2, the Indian Operation. 1. The Tagliacotian Operation consists in taking the integument and areolar tissue required for the repair of the lost organ from the inside of the arm. Here a flap of sufficient extent is to be marked out and dissected up with its subjacent areolar tissue, leaving it merely attached to the limb by a root at its distal end. No attempt at fixing this flap to the nose should be made for at least a fortnight, diu’ing which time it should be kept upon a piece of wet lint, and allowed to thicken, granulate, and become vascular, so as to fit itself for adhesion to the new surface to which it is to be applied. The remains of the deformed nose having then been properly pared and the flap shaped, they must, after all bleeding has ceased, be properly adjusted and fixed to one another by points of suture. The arm must then be closely attached to the head, so as to be as nearly as possible immovable. At the end of about ten days, when adhesions have taken place, the connecting medium may be cut across, and the part left to be supported by the vitality which it may gain fi’om the new surface to which it is now attached. This process is comparatively seldom had recourse to, for obvious reasons. The uncertainty of maintaining the -vitality in the flap, the extreme tediousness of the prolonged constrained position in which it is necessaiy to keep tli6 patient, and the great difficulty of guarding against movements of the arm, especially during sleep, and which, however slight and involuntary, would be sufficient to disturb union between the opposed surfaces, and occasion the failure of the operation, have caused this plan of procedure to fall into disuse ; and it is now, I believe, uiiivereallv