205 A XILLARY—DIA GNOSIS—THE A TMENT. the fii'st rib. It usually increases with great rapidity, owing to the little resistance opposed by the loose areolar tissue in this situation, and most com- monly extends dowmvards and forwards, causing the hollow of the axilla to disappear. In some rare instances, however, the tumour has been known to take a direction upwards under the lesser pectoral, and into the areolar interval above that muscle, or even underneath the clavicle into the acromial angle between it and the trapezius. It is fortunately rare for an aneurism to take such a coiu’se, as it Avonld present serious difficulty in the compression or ligature of the subclavian ; and there is more than one instance on record, in which the sac has been punctured in the attempt to pass the needle round this vessel. AVhen the aneurism is seated high up, it not unfrequently happens that the clavicle is pushed upwards by the pressure of the tumour beneath it—a com- plication of considerable moment in reference to the operation, the difficulties of which are greatly increased by it. The^;?Tss?»'<3 of the tumour upon neigh- bouring parts may give rise to serious consequences ; thus it may produce a carious state of the lirst and second ribs, and the compression of the brachial plexus of nerves will occasion pain and numbness in the upper extremity. The affections of the limb occasioned by the aneurism are diminution or ex- tinction of the radial pulse, oedema, coldness, and loss of muscular pow'er. In some cases the brachial artery beyond the tiunour would appear to be ob- structed, no pulsation being perceptible in it. Compression of the axillary vein may occasion oedema of the hand and arm, with some diminution in the temperature of the limb ; and these symptoms, if the tumour attain a very large size, may amount even to indications of impending gangrene. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of axillary aneurism is usually readily made ; there being but two diseases Avith Avhich it can well be confounded, A'iz., chronic enlargement and suppuration in the glands of the axilla, and pulsating tumour of the bones in this region. From glandular or other abscess, the diagnosis is generally easy ; but I have seen some cases in Avhich, pulsation being communicated to their contents by the subjacent artery, it Avas somewhat difficult to distinguish the nature of the tumours. Here, howeA'er, the history of the case and its speedy progress to pointing will indicate its true nature. From meclullarg tumour, or osteo-aneurism of the head of the humerus, the diagnosis is not ahvays so easy; and there are at least two instances on record in which the subclaA'ian artery has been ligatured for disease of this kind on the supposition of its being an aneurism. In these instances it has, hoAveA’er, generally been observed that the tumour first made its appearance on the fore part of the shoulder, and not in the usual situation of axillary aneurism ; that it Avas from the first firm, smooth, elastic, but nearly incompressible ; and that, although it presented distinct ]mlsation, there aa’us no true belloAvs-souud, but rather a thrilling bruit perceptible in it. The most important diagnostic mark, ])crhaps, is the fact of these tumours forming a prominence in situations in which aneurisms of the axillary artery Avould not at first shoAV themselves, as at the upper, outer, or anterior part of the shoulder. In more advanced stages, when the substance of the bone has undergone absorption, and its shell has become thin and expanded by the outAvard pressure of the tumour, there is often a dry crackling or rustling sound perceived on pressure, Avhich is never met Avith in cases of aneurism. Tiieat.aiknt,—1 am not ac(piainted Avith any instance in Avhich an aneurism of the axillary artery, not arising from Avound or injury, has uudergoue spoil-