'575 DISEASES OF THE GUMS^EPULTS. children in all recorded cases were deficient in intellect. In a case of this kind under my care I fnlly removed the growth with the scalpel and scissors. It was found to consist of the ordinary strncture of the gums, with fine fibrous stroma containing much gland-tissue ; the papilim on the surface were very large, and covered by unusually thick epithelium. At the time of the operation the child was 2^ years of age. Five years afterwards the late John Murray exhibited this patient and his younger brother and sister at Q^Qigty (Trails. Vol. LVI.). The growth had returned and the two younger children were similarly affected. They were all the subjects of tumours of the skin of the nature of molluscum fibrosum and peculiar enlargements of the fingers and toes, and were all of weak intellect. No cause could be found for the disease beyond the fact that the parents were first cousins. C. Heath recommends in such cases that the alveolar border should be removed with the growth. Epulis is a tumour springing from the periosteum and edge of the alveolus, and implicating the osseous walls of the sockets ; it gTOAVs up between and , loosens the neighbouring teeth, which it displaces and envelopes in its structure. ■ It is of two kinds ; simjjle and maligmuit. The Simple Epulis is a fibrous tumour; the term Malignant Epulis is applied to a myeloid tumour springing from the alveolar border of the jaw, and it is sometimes extended to epithelioma of the gum. Simple Epulis is most frequently met ■with in the lower jaw (Fig. G71). I have, however, seen several instances of its springing from the alveolar border of the u])per jaw (Fig. 072). It appears to be occasioned chiefly by the iiritation of decayed stumps, and hence occurs more frequently in connec- tion with the molar than with the incisor teeth. Although this disease has occasionally been seen in children, it seldom occurs before the adult age, and may Ikj developed even up to an advanced period of life. It is seen as often among females as males. A fibrous epulis appears as a red, smooth, and lobulated tumour, at first hard and semi-elastic, like the ordinary structure of the gum, but after a time ulcerating on the surface, with a purulent or sanious discharge. The fibrous epulis springs from the periosteum, and Fig. 071.—Epulis of Lower Jaw. Fig. 672.—Epulis of Upper Jaw, liangiug down so as to overlap the Lower Jaw,