228 SPEC I A L A NEURISMS. the spot is found where the smallest amount of pressure will control the circu-i lation. It will be found convenient to insert a soft hollow sponge under tlie| pad of the tourniquet, as it then accommodates itself more readily to the parts) between it and the spine. During the ojieration the patient must he watched very carefully, and the tourniquet slackened at once if any symi)toms of faint- ness intervene. Obstinate vomiting may render the continuance of the ojjera- tion impossible. It is difficult to say whether this is due to pressui'e on the sympathetic or to the influence of the chloroform. During the application ol the tourniquet, it is advisable to have the lower limbs raised in the bed and warmly wrapped in cotton-wool, as marked coldness and serious congestioi have usually been noticed after the compressio7i has lasted a short time. I necessary, nutritive enemata and brandy may be administered during tlu anmsthesia. INGUINAL ANEURISM. An Iliac or Inguinal Aneurism may arise from the external iliac, oj from the common femoral artery ; most frequently it springs from the latteij and, taking a direction upwards, pushes the peritoneum before it, and thu] encroaches somewhat upon the cavity of the abdomen. The aneurism is coiuj monly of the circumscribed false variety, though sometimes tubular. It rarel^j if ever, becomes diffused, for the reason long ago pointed out by Scarpa, th^ the femoral artery, above the edge of the sartorius muscle, is invested by si dense a sheath, and is so closely bound down to the neighbouring fa.scia, tha'* when dilated into an aneurism, it does not readily give way. Symptoms.—When first noticed, the aneurism is a small, soft, compressibi tumour, with pulsation and bruit, and is generally attended by little pain (• uneasiness. It rapidly enlarges, however, and may attain a considerable mag • nitude; being often somewhat lobulated upon the surface, owing to the uneqm. constriction exercised on it by the fasciae under which it lies. At the sani; time, it usually becomes more solid ; and the pulsation in it diminishes coij • siderably, or even ceases entirely. As it increases in size, it compresses tl; saphena and femoral veins, thus giving rise to oedema of the limb ; and, ij; stretching the genito-crural and some of the branches of the anterior crurjl nerve, it occasions considerable pain in the thigh and leg. I Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of inguinal aneurism is not always so easy \ \ might at first appear. It has most frequently been confounded with absceji in the groin, with carcinomatous tumours in this situation, and with ostef- aneurism. The diagnosis from abscess must be made on general principled but in some instances it appears to be replete with difficulty, as there are no a few cases on record in which aneurisms in this situation have been mistake and punctured for abscesses, an error that has three times fallen under my ow observation, and one which has in every instance proved fatal. The diagno^: of an inguinal aneurism, solidified by the deposition of laminated fibrine, ail pulsating but indistinctly, from aspiilsaiing sarcoma in the gi-oin, is surroundj by the greatest difficulty, and cannot, I believe, with the means we at presc} possess, be accomplished with absolute certainty. The fact of the two diseasi having in two instances been confounded by two of tlie most distinguish*' Surgeons of the day, Stanley and Syme, is sufficient evidence of the difficult attending their diagnosis. Treatment.—It occasionally happens that inguinal aneurisms, even off