DEFORMITIES. 494 under the axillae, or if she be laid down on her face on a flab couch, the back will foil into a straio-ht position, or may readily be made to do so by slight traction. After the disease has existed for some time, or if the patient have passed that age at which consolidation of the bones and ligaments is com- pleted, the distortion will continue permanently, in whatever position she may bo placed. This is not only owing to the deformity of the spine, but to the ribs, and ligamentous and muscular structures generally of the trunk, having become distorted, shortened, and fixed in their abnormal position. Teeatment.—The treatment of lateral curvature of the spine should be conducted on rational principles ; and, when divested of the mystery with Avhich some interested specialists have surrounded it, it becomes as simple as that of any other chronic surgical affection of the bones, joints, or muscles. There are three principles of treatment that require to be carried out in the management of these cases. The first is the improvement of the general health, —unless this be effected, nothing can be done ; the second is, to strengthen the muscles of the spine ; and the third, to take away as much as possible the weight of the head, neck, and upper extremities. The administration of some of the milder preparations of iron, with a course of aloetics for the regulation of the uterine function, is of great moment; at the same time, a nourishing diet of animal food should be allowed, and the patient encouraged to take exercise in the open air. By these means the nutrition of the system will be improved, and the tone of the muscles restored. The muscular power may be more directly strengthened by having the back well sponged with salt or vinegar in cold water every morning, and methodically rubbed from top to bottom. The friction should be applied principally to the erector spinm muscles and their prolongations on each side of the vertebral column, and may be done either with the naked hand, or with some slightly stimulating embrocation. At the same time, if the patient’s strength vdll permit it, but not otherwise, the use of the hand-swing may be allowed, or calisthenic exercises practised, and swimming learnt ; by it the back is straightened, and its muscles braced more effectually than in any other exercise ; these exercises, however, should not be continued if they induce a feeling of fatigue or ex- haustion. Whilst this plan is being persevered in, the patient should be made to lie recumbent for a few hours daily, sitting or standing as little as possible. By these means, assiduously continued for some length of time, the muscles of the back may be strengthened, and increase of the deformity prevented ; and in this way the slighter cases of lateral curvature, those in which there is a tendency to rather than a full development of the disease, may be cured. Should the focal length of the two eyes vary materially, this must be corrected by the use of proper glasses. All faulty habits must be corrected—one-handed games laid aside—in writing or drawing a sloping desk should be used, to which the child should sit squarely. If the girl rides, she should learn to ride alternately on the off and near sides. In slight cases of lateral curvature, great evil may be occasioned and the deformity increased by the unnecessary employment of cumbersome machinery. The heavy apparatus that is often applied to growing girls overpowers and compresses, rather than supports and directs the imperfectly developed and still yielding skeleton. By the use of complicated machines the muscles of the back become weakened and atrophied from disuse ; the pelvis is compressed