62 DISEASES OF VEINS. varicose veins of the viz., that tlie varix may «:ive way, the vein may “ burst ” as is generally said. In these cases, the word “ burst ” is scarcely correct. The varix does not give way solely by pressure from within ; but a process of ulceration goes on from without by which its coats become weakened, so that at last a pin-hole aperture forms, giving rise to profuse haemorrhage. The bleeding is often so profuse as to induce faintness, and sometimes even death in a few minutes. This bleeding takes place in a different way from ordinary venous haemorrhage, the blood coming chiefly from the cardiac and not the distal side, the incompetent valves not presenting the ordinary obstacle to the downward flow of blood. It is this that causes its extraordinary copiousness. In most cases this so-called “ bursting ” is not so sudden but that a Surgeon may foresee tlie probability of its occun’ence, as it most commonly takes place either on the surface of an ulcer, or is preceded by induration, reddening, and thinning of the integuments covering the diseased vein. In some Ciises, how- ever, the warnings may be very slight. A few years ago a man was brought into University College Hospital, who had died in a few minutes from haemor- rhage from a varicose vein. There was nothing to be seen on the body but a minute hole, surrounded by apparently healthy skin. Water injected into the vena cava readily flowed out through the aperture. On injecting the specimen and dissecting it, a large mass of tortuous veins was found, but the haBmorrhage had come from a small cutaneous vein which joined the dilated trunk. It had been dilated to the size of a crow-quill, and the cutis covering it was thinned. Varicose veins are very prone to suffer from inflammation and thrombosis. The symptoms are those of phlebitis already described. The inflammation is always localized. Suppuration occasionally takes place, but spreading phlebitis and embolism are rare complications. After an attack of phlebitis the vein is often obliterated, and the patient cured of his disease. Treatmext.—This must be conducted on two principles—to palliate and to cure. The Palliative Treatment consists in moderate compression exer- cised upon the vessel, so as to support its weakened and dilated coats, and thus prevent its further distension and the pain occasioned by this, as well as the other consequences—such as cedema, induration, and ulceration. The pressure must be applied very smoothly and evenly, lest it irritate the skin, and cause ulceration, or produce distension of the vein below the part com- pressed. For the purpose of compression, bandages and elastic stockings are commonly employed. The soft “ stocking bandage ” is one of the most com- fortable. If an elastic stocking be used, care must be taken that it really fits evenly. They are often made too tight at the upper part. Martin’s India-rubber bandage applied in the same way as in the treatment of the chronic ulcer (Vol. I., p. 264) is a most efficient and comfortable mode of treatment if the patient can wear it without its causing eczema. Elastic pressm’e by means of a vulcanized India-rubber band or garter applied around the limb, so as to simulate the action of the valves of the vein, and by its compression to cut off the weight of the column of blood from the terminal branches, has been recommended ; and Colies advised the application of a truss to the upper part of the saphena vein ; but as a rule these modes of treatment only aggravate the symptoms. If a vein burst, the haemorrhage is easily amsted by placing the patient on his back with the leg elevated and applying a compress and bandage. When a patient is in danger of haemorrhage, he should be advised to have the vein