52 DISEASES OF VEINS. or operation. Interrujition to the proper distrilmtion of the force tlirou^li Avaiit of elasticity in the arteries acts in tlie same way. Obstruction of the main artery of a limb or arrest of the capillaiy circulation from wliich a vein derives its blood, will in like manner retard the venous flow. Another very common cause of retardation or arrest of the blood-stream in the veins is the obstruction caused by the presence of a tumour, or the contraction following chronic inflammation of the connective tissue of an organ ; examples of these conditions may be frequently seen in the iliac veius pressed upon by a pregnant uterus, or an ovarian tumour, and in the vessels of a cirrhotic liver ; and it must be remembered that a tight bandage may act in the same way. When a vein is divided in a surgical operation, it empties itself and becomes collapsed as far as the next pair of valves, but above these it may remain full of stagnant blood up to the point at which another vein enters the trunk. When a vein is ligatured in its continuity there will be, in addition, stagnation of blood below as far as the next collateral branch. When the circulation is too feeble to press the valves back against the walls of the vessel, or when in consequence of dilatation they are never properly closed, but project into the lumen of the vein, it not uncommonly happens that stagnation takes place in the sinuses of the valves, and small thrombi may thus form, which finally project into the lumen of the vessel, and by gradual increase may at last close it completely. The Process of Thrombosis.—Thrombosis may take place while the blood is moving, the lumen of the vein becoming gradually filled with the coaguliim, or while the blood is at rest. The appearance of the thrombus varies with the conditions under which it is formed, much as the coagulum obtained by whipping blood differs from that formed when freshly shed blood is allowed to coagulate undis- turbed in a vessel. The process of thrombosis has been observed experimen- tally by Zahn in the veins of the mesentery and tongue of the frog. A large vein being chosen, its walls were injured by placing a crystal of common salt near or directly over it. On watching the injured spot, the white corpuscles of the passing blood were seen to adhere to it until they were heaped up, sometimes to such an extent as to completely obstruct the vein. If the caustic action of the salt had not been very severe they might break loose again and pass away into the blood-stream ; if it had been more powerful the corpuscles remained adherent. After some hours they were seen to undergo a marked change. The greater part disintegrated, their outline being lost and their nuclei no longer being recognizable, and a fine granular mass, having the appearance of freshly-formed fibrin, appeared in the place they formerly occupied. This observation is in harmony with the view that the liberation of the ferment by disintegration of the white corpuscles plays an important part in the process of coagulation. The thrombus thus formed was in some cases pure white in colour, but more commonly a few red corpuscles were entangled amongst the white. The more rapidly the plugging of the vessel took place the more red corpuscles were entangled in the thrombus. When coagulation takes place in a vessel in which the flow is completely arrested the clot differs in no respect from that formed in blood drawn from the body. It entangles in its meshes all the corpuscles, both red and white, and presents the familiar dark red colour.