1141 CANCER OF THE PENIS—TREATMENT. ocalized ; but after its removal it will usually be foimd to infiltrate the organ or a considerable distance. The papillary form at first presents the appearance of ordinary warts (Fig. •of)). It grows rapidly, and a deep seated indurated base can be felt beneath it. 'Ulceration soon sets in with abundant foul discharge. At first the distinction n'rom a simple growth is not easy to make, but the flat hard base infiltrating the glans will usually indicate its nature. Cancer of the penis occurring under a long foreskin soon leatls to such eiilargemeut of the glans that the prepuce cannot be drawn back. It then causes a globular enlargement over which the skin of the prepuce is tightly stretched, and a foul serous discharge often tinged with blood escapes from the orilice. Finally the distended foreskin may give way and the fungating ■cancerous growth project through an ulcerating aperture in it. The glands in the groin are early affected. Causes.—It has been supposed and with some show of reason, that congenital ; phimosis predisposes to the affection ; probably by confining the secretions, and thus keeping up irritation of the part. Hey found that, of 12 patients ' with this disease who came under his observation, 9 had congenital phimosis ; : and Travers states that Jews, who are circumcised, are seldom subject to this : afiection. But as they are a limited community in this country, and as the ‘ disease is rare, we cannot draw any conclusive inference from this observa- tion. It is, however, very probable that the papillary form of the disease often arises from the local irritation resulting from the accumulation of the secretion under a long foreskin. The nodular form of the affection, however, may occur frequently in individuals who have not suffered from this source of in-itation ; of this I have seen several instances at the University College Hospital. Diagnosis.—Epithelioma of the penis requires to be diagnosed from fungoid warts. This may usually be done readily enough, by comparing the indicated state of the malignant with the soft and lax condition of the non-malignant affection. From chancrous induraimi of the glans, the history of the case and the way in which it is influenced by treatment will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. Treatment.—The treatment of cancer of the penis will vary according to the nature and extent of the malignant affection. If the growth is limited in extent and especially if it is papillary in form the Surgeon may, if he see the ease early, content himself with dissecting off the affected patch. Should the growth be more extensive and extend deeply into the substance of the penis the treatment must be conducted on the principles that guide us in the management of malignant affections wherever situated ; viz., to remove the diseased organ at as early a stage as possible, wliilst the affection is localized, before the glands are implicated and the constitution poisoned. In the penis, this may readily be done by an operation that is simple in its execution and nejirly devoid of danger. In many cases a return may take place, and that s[)cedily, either in the part itself or in the iieighbouriug lymphatic glands ; yet, even if this occur, it is clearly the duty of the Surgeon to rid the patient of a loathsome disease, and to put him in a state of comparative comfort for sf)ine time ; the more so, ns there is reason to believe that, in some instances, the disease may be entirely extirpated from the system, evincing no tendency to return. Indeed, 1 believe that amputation of the penis for cancer is more