SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 2 10 In order to obviate the difficulty that lias occasionally been experienced in reaching the artery when thus buried behind an elevated clavicle, it lias Ixien proposed by Hargrave to saw through the bone, 'i'he most serious objection that can be raised against this practice, is the fact of the clavicle being some- times a part of the wall of the aneurism ; but, supposing the Surgeon could satisfy himself that this was not the case, I cannot see any objection to this procedure, provided any very great and insurmountable difficulty presented itself in passing the ligature round the vessel without it. Accidents during Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian.— Wound of the External Jugular Vein is a most serious accident, as entrance of air is very likely to take place, and may cause immediate death. This accident is avoided by careful dissection, and if the vein is so situated as to be exposed to the risk of injury, it must be divided between a couple of ligatures. Profuse venous hcemorrhage from wound of some of the numerous veins in the neighbourhood has more than once prevented the completion of the operation. Should this accident happen the wound must be plugged and the operation attempted again at some later period. Woimd of the Sac is a somewhat rare accident. In some cases, as has already been stated, the sac passes upwards below the cla'^ncle into the inferior posterior triangle of the neck; when this is the case, the Surgeon incurs the risk of puncturing it from its close proximity to the artery, as it lies on the first rib. This accident happened to Cusack while ligaturing the subclavian in the third part of its course, for a diffused aneurism of the axillary artery. An alarming gush of blood took place, which was arrested by plugging the wound ; but the haemorrhage recurred on the tenth day, and the patient died. In a case related by Travers, in which the sac was punctured by the needle, which was being passed round the artery, the blood, which was arterial, did not flow per salkm, but in a continuous stream. “ The haemorrhage,” Travers says, “ was more terrific and uncontrollable than I have ever witnessed,” and was not commanded by drawing the ligature tight. It was so great that it was doubtful whether the patient would leave the theatre alive, and was arrested only by plugging the wound with sponge-tents. The patient died of inflammation of the pleura. On examination, the aneurismal sac was found to have a pouch-like enlargement upwards, overlying the artery, where it had been punctured. Inclusion of the loivest cord of the Irachialp)Uxus in the noose of the ligature is a more common accident, indeed the mistake has more than once been committed of tying these nervous trunks instead of the vessel. Thus, Listou, in the first successful case of ligatm’e of the subclavian in this country, passed the thread round the lower nervous cord ; but immediately perceiving his error, turned it to account by drawing aside the included nerve, and thus more readily exposing the artery. Dupuytren, in a case of aneurism of some years’ duration, succeeded, after an operation that lasted one hour and forty- eight minutes, and which he describes as the most tedious and difficult he ever attempted, in passing a ligature round the vessel, as he believed. After the death of the patient, which occurred from hasmorrhage on the ninth day, the artery was found to have been perforated by the needle, and one half the vessel and the lower cord of the brachial iflexus included in the noose. In a case related by Porter, it is stated that the artery communicated such distinct pulsation to the inferior nervous trunk, that there was no means 1 i I i! ! t I A A ( L d ; 7( ■U i.'M I j' a .A i!‘L d 1 i - • n