246 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. seen during the operation, but tlic internal saplienous occfisionally comes into view, and must be avoided. After tlie operation a drainage-tul)C should be inserted in such a Avay that its end sliall lie beneath the sartorius, and tlie Avound is closed Avith sutures. The limb is then semi-flexed, somewhat raised, and laid on its outer side and Avrapped in soft flannel or cotton avooI. The severe pain Avhich is usually complained of about the knee after tightening the ligature may be relieved by a full dose of opium. In this operation there are seA'^eral i)oints of considerable importance that require special attention. 1. The incision should be made directly in the guiding line of the artery, care being taken not to incline it iiiAvards in the direction of the sartorius. 2. In cutting doAvn upon the artery, the saphenous vein should be avoided, by taking care not to make the incision too far iii- Avards. Any parallel venous branch that may be met AAuth must be draAvn on one side. 3. After the sheath has been opened, it aauII sometimes be found that a rather large muscular branch is given off from the artery at about the part Avhere it AA'as intended to ligatm’e it; if so, this must be carefully avoided, as AA^ell as any small veins that cross the main trunk in this situation. 4. The ligature should not be applied less than four inches beloAv Poupart’s ligament, so that sufficient space may intervene betAveen the origin of the deep femoral, Avhich is usually from one or tAvo inches beloAV the crural arch, and the point deligated, to admit of the formation of a proper coagulum in the A’essel. It has, howe\"er, happened that the ligature has been placed within three-quarters of an inch of the origin of the deep femoral, without any injurious conse- quences resulting. 5. The greatest care must be taken not to Avound the femoral vein, Avhich lies behind the artery in the situation in which a ligature is usually applied. If the A’essel is tied a little higher than usual, the vein will be toAvards the inner side, and then the needle must be passed fi’om within outAvards. Wounding the A’ein is best avoided by thoroughly cleaning the artery ; the Avhite external coat must be thoroughly exposed, and Avhile the needle is being passed the sheath should be put thoroughly on the stretch, the Sm'geon holding the edge of the opening on the side from Avhich he is ■ passing the needle, A\diile the assistant catches the opposite side in a pair of forceps and draws gently upon it. In passing the needle, its end should be kept very close to the artery, and made to circle round it. The vein is : generally perforated by dipping the needle too deeply and losing the contact | between it and the artery. When the needle is brought up on the outer side j of the artery, a small portion of the sheath is sometimes pushed up by it; this must be torn by pinching it Avith the forceps, Avhen the needle may be carried round the vessel. Results.—Ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism is an operation that has been so frequently performed, that Surgeons seldom think of recording cases of this description, unless they present complications or sequelm of unusual interest or severity ; hence, but little importance can he attached to any statistical deductions from reported cases as to the fatality of this operation, although they may serve as a rough estimate of the proportion maintained betAveen the different accidents, such as hjemon-hage, gangrene. &c., that folloAv it. That the ligature of the femoral artery is attended with more success than that of any of the other large trunks, can admit of no doubt. This is not only in accordance Avith the general experience of Surgeons, but is confirmed by the statistics of i)ublishcd cases, even AAuthout