I lO ANEURISM. tiiraour, the raore readily will the blood bo projected into it at each impiilBe of the heart, and the more quickly will the tumour expand. Symptoms.—The symptoms of an aneurism are of two kinds: 1. Those that are peculiar to this disease ; and 2. Those that are simply dependent on the presence of the tumour occasioned by the enlarging sac. The peculiar or pathognomonic signs are those that are dependent on the communication of the sac with the artery ; they consist of signs afforded by the manual and auscultatory examination of the tumour ; those that are dependent on the mere size of the growth are the iDressure-effects. It is of course only in external aneurisms that those signs which are ascertainable on manual exami- nation of the tumour can usually be recognized. In internal aneurisms, in the majority of cases, the auscultatory signs and the pressure-effects afford the best indications of the presence and nature of the tumour ; though, when this approaches the surface, much information can be gained by palpation. Symptoms of External Circumscribed Aneurism.—The tumour is usually round or oval, distinctly circumscribed, and situated upon and in close connection with some large artery. It is at first somewhat compressible, but after’wards becomes more and more solid as fibrin is deposited in it. The most marked sign is, perhaps, \ho, pulsation that is felt in it from the very first. This is of a distensile, eccentric, and expanding character, separating the hands when laid upon each side of the tumour, by a distinct impulse fi’om within outwards. The pulsation is most forcible in an aneurism in which there is but little laminated fibrin ; and as this increases in quantity the pulsation gradually loses its tense expanding character, being converted into a dead thud, and in some cases ceasing entirely. When pulsation is obscure, the compres- sion of the artery below the sac will cause it to become more distinct, or it may be increased in distinctness by elevating the limb or part affected. When the artery above the sac is compressed, the flow of blood into the tumour is necessarily arrested, and a considerable quantity of its more fluid contents may be squeezed out by gentle pressure. If the hands be then laid upon each side of the tumour, and the pressure suddenly taken off the artery, the blood will be found to rush into and distend the sac by a sudden stroke, separating the hands from one another. This may be looked upon as one of the most characteristic signs of aneurism. The hruit or sound emitted by the blood in its passage through an aneu- rismal sac was first noticed by Ambrose Pare. It varies much in character, being usually loud, rasping or sawing—loudest and roughest in tubular aneu- risms. Occasionally the bruit is double, and if so, it clearly indicates the sacculated nature of the aneurism. It is possible, however, that when great aortic regurgitation is jn’esent, the backward current of blood in the large vessels might give rise to a feeble diastolic murmur in a fusiform aneurism. In many cases it is altogether absent; this especially happens in sacculated aneurisms with small mouths, or in those that are much distended with coagula and blood. The absence of sound, therefore, in a tumour must not be taken as a proof that it is not an aneurism. The sound is usually best heard in aneurisms that arc not too fully distended with blood ; indeed, it is usually most distinct when the sac is partially emptied. Thus, for instance, it not un- frequently happen-s that, in an aneurism of the ham or thigh no bruit, or but a very faint one, is audible so long as the patient is standing : but if he lie down, and elevate the limb so as to partly empty the sac, then it may be