176 SPEC I A L A AU!/[/PLSA/E gc'sted that, in such cases, it mip;ht he safer to anticipate it by laying open the sac after the ai^plication of the ligature on the proximal side, and tying the vessel again on the distal side, thus performing a combination of Anel’s and the old operation. It would a]ipoar, however, as if this were only substituting, with certainty, one evil for another that may very possibly be avoided. Besides these, which may be looked upon as the ordinary accidents following the application of a ligature for aneurism, deligation of the carotid artery occasion- ally gives rise to serious and even fatal disturbance of the circulation within the cranium. Hffects on the Brain of Ligature of one or both Carotids.—Many experiments have been made by Meyer, Jobert, and others, upon the lower animals, with the view of determining the effect produced on the brain by the ligature of the carotid arteries. But the deductions from these are of no value whatever when applied to the human subject, for the simple reason (which appears to have been strangely overlooked), that in many of the lower animals on which the observations were made, as the dog and rabbit, for instance, the common carotid arteries are of secondary importance so far as the cerebral circulation is concerned, being destined principally for the supply of the external parts of the head—the brain deriving its chief supply from the vertebrals ; whilst in other animals, as the horse, the brain derives nearly the whole of its blood from the carotids, and but a very small quantity from the vertebrals. Hence, in one case the carotids may be ligatured without danger, whilst in the other their deligation is inevitably fatal. The statistics of ligature of the carotid in the human subject have been collected by Xorris, Ehrmann, and others ; and more recently by Pilz of Breslau {Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie, 1868), who has collected 600 cases of the operation, including 27 in which the artery was tied on both sides. The causes which led to the operation were, hsemorrhage, in 228 cases ; aneurism, in 87 ; erec- tile and other tumours, 142 ; extirpation of tumours, 71 ; cerebral affections (epilepsy, &c.), 34 ; and in 38 instances the distal operation was performed for aneurisms of the aorta and innominate artery. In the 228 cases of ligature for haemorrhage, the presence of cerebral symptoms is noted in 69 out of 167 —no information being given in regard to 61 ; and, in these 69 cases, death took place in 40. Excluding, however, these from calculation, inasmuch as the brain-disorder may have been in many due to the haemorrhage rather than to the operation, we derive from Pilz’s statistics the following table showing the proportionate frequency of the occurrence of cerebral disease and of deaths from this cause. TABLE OP LIGATURE OP CAROTID POLLOWED BY CEREBRAL DISEASE. CAUSE OF OPERATION. NUMBER OF CASES. CASES IN WHICH CEREBRAL AFFECriTON ENSUED. DEATHS FROM CEREBRAL DISEASE. DEATHS FROM ALL CAUSES. NO RECORD REGARDINO CEREBRAL S^'MPTOMS. Aneurism .... 87 82 16 31 5 Erectile and other Tumours , 142 82 20 40 8 Extirpation of Tumours . . 71 18 8 25 8 Cerebral Affections 84 8 ... 1 8 Distal Operation . . . 88 11 7 25 0 J 872 0(5 51 181 19 I: J * • .1 VA JO :)d ; NT ; N ! t>S1 I Ifol ; Tui i i ii L \h i i \