255 LIGATURE OF THE POSTERIOR TIlilAL. Fig. 494.—Diagi'am of Left Popliteal Ai’tery. A. Popliteal Aj’tery. V. Vein. N. Internal Popliteal Nerve. M. Biceps Muscle. botweeii the hone and the arteiy, which is suiToiindcd in this situation by a considerable amount of loose fat. Tliis fat being’ torn through, the artery is exposed without niucli difficulty. The vein and the internal popliteal nerve lie to the outer side and are not seen. The ligature should not be applied too near the superior articular branches. Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—The line of direction of the posterior tibial artery is from a point about one inch below the knee, and equidistant from the two sides of the limb, to a point one finger’s breadth behind the inner malleolus. The vessel may Ixi tied at any part of its course, but it has rarely been undertaken as a formal operation except about the middle of the calf or behind the inner malleolus. In the middle of the leg the posterior tibial artery should be tied only for a wound, and in such circum- stances, as a rule, no regular operation can be per- formed; but an incision of sufficient length, taking the wound for its centre, should be made through the gastrocnemius and soleus parallel to their fibres, when, after these have been cut through, the deep fascia will be exposed. This must next be opened, when the artery will be found accompanied by its veins, and having the nerve to the outer side. From the depth at which the vessel is situated, and the free incisions that it is necessary to make through muscular parts, it is extremely difficult to apply the ligature in this situation. The later steps of the operation may be much facilitated by flexing the leg on the thigh, and extending the foot, so as to relax the muscles. The regular operation as performed on the dead body is rarely required on the living. It is thus carried out. The limb is flexed and laid on its outer side. An incision is made four inches in length parallel to the posterior border of the tibia and about one inch behind it. The internal saphenous vein must be avoided if its situation can be ascertained. On dividing the deep fascia the edge of the gastrocnemius, if it has not fallen away to the outer side in the position of the leg, will come into view and is to be pushed to one side, exposing the surface of the soleus. This is next to be divided, the edge of the knife being now turned tov-ards the iDOsterior surface of the tibia. After cutting through about half an inch of muscular tissue a tendinous layer is exposed. This is the tendon of the deep surface of the soleus, and forms the first important rallying point in the operation. The tendon having been exposed in the whole length of the wound, it is picked up in the middle with a pair of forceps and carelhlly opened. The ojKjrator must now look to see if muscular fibres arise from its under .surface. As a rule, no fibres arise from the internal half inch of the deep surfar-e of the tendon, and if the incision through it be made at this point, the space between the deep and superficial muscles in which the artery lies is immediately opened. If the incision he more external, the fibres arising from the deep surface of the tendon must be divided before the projier space is V A V Fig. 495.— Diagram of Wight Po.sterior Tibial Artery, belli mi Inner MalleoInV. A. Posterior Ti- bial Artery. V. V. \’eiiiv co- mites. N. Posterior Ti- bial Nerve.