EXCISION OF THE WRIST—LISTER'S METHOD. 385 md immediately to the palmar aspect of the hone, and carried directly dowii- j vards between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the nlna, and then straight on as far s the middle of the palmar aspect of the fifth metacarpal bone. The tendons ^ .nd soft parts on the dorsum of the carpus are now to bo completely raised. 11 doing this the tendons must be relaxed, aud they are to be raised as little > ■ s possible from the radius or metacai-pus. The extensor carpi ulnaris is to Sie cut as near its insertion as possible, and the dorsal and internal lateral jgaments may now be divided. Then the soft parts are to be raised from the lalmar aspect The knife must be carried close to the ulna, so as not to i rnund the artery and nerve. The pisiform bone is to be separated and left ttached to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is not to be cut. The 'Wi exor tendons are to be raised from the metacarpal bones, but in doing this y; ae hook of the unciform bone must be clipped off with the bone-forceps, aud {| are must be taken not to cut beloAV the bases of the metacarpal bones, for i s oar of wounding the deep palmar arch. The tendons must be relaxed during ijj ais part of the operation by flexing the vwist. The bone-forceps may now s' e introduced, first between the carpus and radius, and then between the „ irpus and metacarpus ; by this means the whole of the carpal bones (except 1:' le trapezium and the pisiform bone) are separated from their connections, and „ lay be extracted in one mass with a large pair of sequestrum-forceps, any Inl ands which retain them being touched with a knife. hi: The ends of the radius and ulna may now be easily protruded from the ulnar ound. If on examination they be found only slightly diseased, the ulna may M; s sawn obliquely so as to remove only its articular surface and to leave almost le whole of the styloid process. A thin slice may be taken off the end of the kjl idius, so as just to remove only the cartilaginous surface ; and its articular irface for the ulna may be removed by cutting longitudinally with the bone- ^breeps or a chisel. By leaving the ulna as long as possible and by saving the pljyloid process, the tendency to displacement of the hand to the ulnar side is bmewhat counteracted. If the bones be extensively diseased, the gouge and ■Dne-pliera must be used freely. The next step is to expose the bases of the i.etacarpal bones, and to treat them in the same way as the radius and ulna, pkving as much bone as possible, but removing all cartilaginous surfaces with : narrow-bladed saw. The second and third are most easily protruded fr’om ue radial, and the fourth and fifth from the ulnar wound. The trapezium i ay then be dissected out, being held in a strong pair of forceps. In doing jl' lis care must be taken, first, not to wound the radial artery, which is in close lation with its outer side ; and, secondly, not to cut the tendon of the flexor -rpi radialis, which lies in its gi’oove. When the trapezium is removed, the . J fise of the metacarpal bone of the thumb may be pushed up aud cut off with e bone-pliers or a small saw. It is better to remove it, as it may suffer from currence of the disease, and by its removal the thumb is reduced in length to e same extent as the fingers. Lastly, the pisiform bone may bo examined, id either removed entirely, or its cartilaginous surface cut off, as the case 1 quires. During the operation, the only tendons necessarily divided are the tensors of the wrist. The flexor cai-pi radialis may escape, from its attach- 1 sent lieing situated low on the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, id the flexor ulnaris is left attached to the pisiform bone. All the extensors the thumb should be uninjured. All the tendons necessarily divided must ; cut as long as possible, so that they may form new attachments in the most