MALIGNANT NASAL TUMOURS. 553 || the extraction of perfectly and anatomically henion nasal polypi. The questions [ to be solved are these :—Are these tumours the result of the irritation of the I operation of extraction ? or are they the primary disease lying concealed and i! undeveloped in the deep ;cavities of the face, the benign nasal polyp [: being secondary in reality, though more apparent, and consequent on the I irritation set up by the graver and yet latent tumour ? In ■whatever I - way future investigators may answer this, the fact remains certain, that a connexion does exist between the two forms of disease. I have several times observed it. Tumours of rapid growth, maliguant in their course (sometimes called malignant polypus), either epithelioma or sarcoma, occasionally form primarily in the middle of the nasal cavity or about the posterior uares. They groAV rapidly, with great expansion of the bones, much discharge, often intense tensive pain, and bleeding, the hmmorrhage being often excessive. They attack children and persons advanced in life. A tumour of this kind may be developed in different situations. Thus, in some cases, it extends into the phar}uix behind the soft palate ; in others it has a tendency to press against, absorb, and protrude through the nasal or lachrymal bones, occasioning obstruction of the nostril, divergence and protrusion of the eyeball, with dis- turbance of vision, and severe neuralgic pains in the head and face. A soft elastic tumour that projects at the inner side of the orbit, extending into the nose and some little distance down upon the cheek, absorbing and destroying the bones on which it lies, and giving rise to secondary deposits under the angle of the jaw, will soon show its true nature. These diseases, especially when occumng in young people, speedily prove fatal. Death may occur in various ways, according to the nature of the growth and the direction of its development : by exhaustion from haemorrhage ; by the implication of the brain and its membranes ; byasj)hyxia ; or by constitutional cachexy. Treatment.—It is seldom that anything very effectual or permanent can be done by operation ; and it should be borne in mind, that some of the malig- nant growths which project into the nostrils take their origin from the sphenoidal or ethmoidal cells, or even from within the cranium, and that the nasal portion is only the external protrusion, as it were, of a deeply-seated tumour. Should the tumour be slow in its growth, with an absence of secondary deposits, the Surgeon may endeavour to extirpate it by laying open the side of the face freely, making an incision from the inner angle of the eye down the side of the nose, and then across the cheek, dissecting up this triangular flap, cutting across the superior maxilla above the line of the alveoli, with a narrow-bladed sjxw and cutting pliers, and then in a similiar way into the orbit beyond and through the nasal bones, and the nasal process of the superior maxilla above the tumour, and thus extirpating the growth. In this operation there is often free bleeding, which may be arrested by the actual cauteiy, and by ])ledgets of lint soaked in the perchloride of iron, which have the additional advantage of destroying any portions of the tumour left behind in the iiregular and cellular cavities of this region. In other cases it may be pfjssible to expf)So the tumour sufficiently i>y Ollier’s or Lawrence’s operation. Whenever the ujiper part of the pharynx is free, it should be plugged before commencing the operation by a sponge passed behind the soft palate, and in the way already described (p. 548). It must not be too