266 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. mt ■ s; which rapidly ends in suppuration, and often in gangrene of the marrow. There is nothing peculiar about the process beyond the fact that the products, being enclosed by the suiTounding solid bone on all sides except at the opening into the canal, tend to diffuse themselves ra})idly, often extending to the cancellous tissue at the further end. Acute diffiiso osteomyelitis may result also from the virus of the various infective inflaininations Avhich attack wounds, as erysipelas, hospital gangrene, &c., finding admission to the medullary canal. The distinction between these specific inflammations and that arising from the irritation caused by the products of simple putrefaction cannot usually be made, as it may be said that infective traumatic osteomyelitis rarely, if ever, arises when the discharges of the wound are in an aseptic condition. Idiopathic Infective Osteomyelitis is rarely met with, in this country at any rate, but is described as of frequent occurrence by most German writers ; in fact, the cases which most English pathologists describe as acute infective or suppurative periostitis, or as acute necrosis, are by German writers spoken of as acute osteomyelitis. The disease is due to a virus, the nature of which is uncertain, but which is believed to be carried by the blood to the affected bone, and there to excite acute inflammation in much the same way as the virus of scarlet fever causes inflammation of the throat, or that of mumps inflammation of the parotid gland or testicle. The virus increases in quantity in the inflamed area and by diffusing itself in the neighbouring parts causes the spread of Fig. 496. — niffuse the inflammation. What it is that determines the particular HmSsf *aftCT bone affected when the inflammation commences in the medulla Erbow°Joint Uncertain, but when the periosteum is primarily affected, and the medulla only implicated by extension tlnrough the compact tissue, the origin of the process can often be traced to a blow. Infective osteomyelitis has been artificially induced by injuring a bone subcutaneously and then injecting putrid fluids containing microscopic organisms into the blood-stream. In the human subject the pus from bones affected in this way has been repeatedly shown to contain micro-organisms, but no special form has as yet been found to be invariably associated with the disease. A bone affected with acute diffuse osteomyelitis of any form presents the following appearances on section. The medulla is in parts redder than natural, and scattered liEemorrhages are commonly met with. In other parts it is paler in colour and infiltrated with pus, which here and there is collected in abscess-cavities of various size. At each end of the bone the morbid condition extends into the cancellous tissue, the marrow in the spaces presenting the same appearances. If the osteomyelitis is of the traumatic septic form, grey gangrenous patches of maiTOW are usually present, and the sawn bone is abominably offensive to the smell. The compact tissue shows no definite changes, but the periosteum is always swollen and frequently separated from the bone by the formation of pus beneath it. Acute diffuse osteomyelitis always causes more or less extensive necrosis of the compact tissue, partly depriving it of its vascular supply when suppuration takes place, and partly from extension of the diffuse inflammation