361 INDICATIONS FOR ENCISION. < i so far as its application to diseases of the elbow was concerned, by the publication of Symes’s essay on that subject, and by the practice of Liston some years subsequently at University College Hospital. In 184:0 these operations wore again prominently brought before the Profession by the performance of excision of the head of the femur by Fergnsson ; and although excision of the knee-joint had occasionally been practised by Syme, Crampton, Textor, Demme, Heyfelder, and others, it was not until its revival in 1850 by the same accomplished Surgeon, that it came to be extensively practised. Since that period, the operation of excision has been applied to almost every joint within reach of the Surgeon’s knife. Before proceeding to discuss the different resections in detail, we must endea- vour to lay down some general rules for their performance in those cases in which alone they are admissible. Indications for Excision.—The excision of an articulation may be prac- tised for the following reasons :— 1. As a substitute for amputation in cases in which the joint is so extensivehj diseased, that the patient will be worn out by the discharge or pain, unless it ■be removed. Here a useful limb may be secured by the sacrifice of the diseased pai-t. 2. In some cases of articular disease in which amputation u'ould not be justi- fiable, excision may be done in order to hasten the cure, and thus to save years of suffering to the patient. 3. Excision may be done in cases in which ani'putation is not practicable; ■as in some cases of disease of the hip-joint or of the temporo-maxillary articulation. 4. As a substitute for other and less efficient treatment, in order to restore the vtihtjj of a limb or joint; as in osseous ankylosis of the elbow, or in faulty ankylosis of the knee. 5. Excision may be required in bad cmnpound dislocations and fractures into joints, especially in gun-shot injuries ; more particularly in those of the head af the humerus, and of the bones entering into the elbow-joint. As a general rule excisions are required only in those cases in which the articular ends of the bones are diseased either primarily or secondarily. If only the soft structures of a joint be involved, it usually happens that, without ihe necessity of resection or operation of any kind, a useful limb will result— .11 the upper extremity, with fair mobility of the articulation ; in the lower, with more or less complete ankylosis, sufficient for a fair basis of support. But when the constitution is very strumous, or the bones are primarily or exten- fively affected, we can scarcely expect that the limb Avill recover to such an extent as to become useful. In determining the necessity of excision the circumstances of the patient must be taken into consideration. Among the upper classes who can enjoy all :he advantages of good food, change of air and careful nursing, it is rarely aeces.sar}' to excise a joint, and the operation should never be undertaken till prolonged efforts have been made to obtain a cure liy other means. In hospital- practice, on the other hand, we have to deal with patients whose circumstances make it almost impossible for them to receive the prolonged attention essential to the recovery of a chronically di.sea.sed joint, and in them the excision may often with advantage be performed even at an early period.