671 TREATMENT OF (EDEMA OF GLOTTIS. rima t^lotticlis (Fi^. 748). It is a pathological fact of much importance, that tlie effusion never extends below the true vocal cords, being limited at this ■ point by the direct adhesion of the mucous membrane to the subjacent fibious tissue, without the intervention of any loose areolar tissue. Duu/nosis.—It is of groat importance to recognize cedematous laryngitis early, and not to coulbund it with simple catarrhal inflammation, ihe laryngoscope is of the gi*eatest use in arriving at a correct diagnosis. It is somewhat diflicult to use in these cases, especially it there be much dyspnoea, but supposing even a momentary glance be obtained of the opening of the glottis, the condition depicted in Fig. 748 may readily be addition to this, the occasional epidemic character of the attection, the early dyspnoea, and the dusky swollen fauces will point to the cedematous variety. Treatment.—The treatment should bo antiphlogistic, though in many cases the constitution will not bear very active measures. Leeching under the jaws and over the larynx. In some cases aconite, antimony, or salines might be of use, but very often the invasion of the inflammation is so rapid that local means must be relied upon rather than constitutional. In many cases scarification with a hernia-knife, or with a sharp pointed bistoury, sheathed with plaster to within a cpuirter of an inch of its point, will be found the most ready means of unloading the infiltrated mucous membrane. The operation of scarification may be more accurately performed by using the laryngeal lancet, whilst the glottis is brought into view by. the use of the laiyngoscope. If no instrument be at hand, the swollen mucous membrane may be efficiently scarified with the fore- finger-nail notched with a pair of scissors. After this, inha- lations of the steam from a pint of hot water to which twenty di’ops of carbolic acid or a drachm of compound tincture of benzoin has been added, will be found to give most relief. Hot fomentations must be applied externally and frequently changed. In the early stages ice may be given, but after the swelling has commenced steaming the throat usually gives more relief. If, notwithstand- ing these remedies, the difficulty in respiration continues to increase, the wind- pipe must be opened before the lungs and brain become irretrievably engorged. After the proper employment of the means that have been indicated and their t‘ failure, the less delay there is in opening the air-passage through the crico- thyroid meml)rane, the better. The Surgeon should not wait until extreme and continuous dyspnoea has set in ; this may never occur, the difficulty in 1 breathing being rather spasmodic than continuous, and in one of the spiasms of dyspiifjea life may suddenly become extinct. The lungs may become fatally I c<.)nge8ted, if the difficulty in breathing be allowed to continue too long. The i operation adds hut little to the patient’s .danger, but the increased risk is j immense if it be delayed to an advanced period. I can truly say that I have seen several ca.ses lost by delaying the ])erformance of the operation, but never one l)y operating too early. When once dyspnoea with laryngeal spasm has fairly set in, every moment is precious, and the patient may at any time be canned off by the recurrence of the spasmf)dic seizures. The patient does ' not die gi’adually asphyxiated, but is suddenly seized with a s})asm that recognized, in Fig. 748.—CEdema of tlie Glottis.