734 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. entirely confined to women ; yet instances of this affection in the male breast occasionally occur. Its peculiar frequency in the female may possibly be connected with the great and sudden alternations of the functional activity of the breast in women. The diangcs impressed upon this organ at puberty and during pregnancy, the various alternations which it undergoes, the inflammatory affections to which it is subject during laetcation, the fre(iuent irritation to which it is exposed by symjiathizing with uterine derangement and the diminution in its vital activity that takes place at the change”of life,’ are sufficient to explain the great liability of this organ to disease generally’; and may not improbably give a clue to the reason why it is peculiarly the seat of cancer in women. The age at which cancer of the breast most frequently occurs is between the thirtieth and fiftieth years. According to Birkett, it is most com- monly met with between the ages of forty-five and fifty—a period of life that is popularly looked upon as specially obnoxious to this malady. At these ages, cancer of the breast usually affects the form of scinhus. 'When it occurs, as it very rarely does, in early life, it more frequently assumes the encephaloid character. I have, however, removed a scirrhous breast from an unmarried woman twenty-three years of age. In elderly women also, scirrhus is the prevalent form ; though I have seen several instances of encephaloid at an advanced period of life, one case in a woman upwards of seventy years of age. Indeed, cancer in either form may affect this organ up to the latest period to which life is prolonged. Married women are said to be more liable than single ones to cancer of the breast; it may, however, fairly be doubted whether they are proportionately so ; and it' is a common belief, founded, I think, in some degree on truth, that the disease is most common in women who have not borne children. Injuries inflicted upon the breast, such as blows, squeezes, &c., are com- monly referred to, and are greatly dreaded by women, as the causes of cancer. That they might be so in constitutions otherwise predisposed to the affection, does not appear improbable ; and that they are so in reality in many cases, I have not the least doubt. The number of instances that have fallen under my observation, in which a blow or squeeze of the breast has speedily been followed by the appearance of a cancerous tumour in it, leaves no doubt whatever on my mind of the truth of the popular belief that associates the injury with the disease, in the relation of cause and effect. Lacteal inflam- mations are likewise supposed to tend to the production of cancer of the breast. Of this doctrine, I think that we do not possess sufficient proof; though it appears highly probable that disturbance of the functions of the organ during lactation may predispose to the occurrence of this disease. Tlie so-called “ Eczema ” of the Nipple was first described by Sir James Paget, as being occasionally the precursor of cancer of the breast. The nature of this affection and its connexion with cancer of the breast are alike obscure. i There are two ways by which the latter may be explained. Thus the local external eczema may be the primary disease, and, travelling up the epithelial lining of the lacteal ducts, may produce changes in them which determine finally a true cancer of the mammary gland. But there is obviously another explanation, viz., that the primary disease is situated in the acini of the gland, that some modification of nutritive or structural change takes place in them either preliminary to, or of the nature of, cancer, in consequence