3o6 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. Combination of Rickets and Scurvy.—Attention has lately been drawn, by T. Smith, Cheadle, and T. Barlow, in this country, andMoller and others in, Germany, to a disease occurring in young children which is characterized by the following symptoms : after a few days’ illness, somewhat sudden swelling' takes place, evidently in connection with the bones, usually in the lower ex- tremities, but sometimes also in the upper limbs. Of all bones the femora arei most frequently affected, but most commonly the swelling is not limited to one bone. There is subcutaneous oedema, varying in amount. Acute tender- ness forms a most prominent symptom, and the slightest movement evidently causes severe pain. The limbs consequently lie motionless, a condition which has been termed “ pseudo-paralysis.” The swelling of the bones is usually most marked near the ends of the shafts, and in extreme cases the epiphyses are found to be separated. Other bones often become affected subsequently to the first appearance of the disease. There is usually some elevation of' temperature, but it seldom exceeds 101'5 F. Spongy gums are met with in about half the cases; purpura, hsematmia, and subconjunctival haemorrhage, have also been noted. The child soon becomes extremely anaemic, and, if not properly treated, rapidly emaciates and dies. The fatal cases, when examined after death, have shown that the pain and swelling is due to a copious extravasation of blood beneath the periosteum, stripping it widely from the bone. The disease has been described by German ; writers as “ acute rickets,” but Barlow, who has carefully analysed 22 cases, states that in three the signs of rickets were very pronounced, in seven ! moderately well marked, in nine slight, and in three absolutely wanting. He i therefore concludes that the scurvy is the essential part of the disease, the ■ rickets being more or less accidental, and at most favouring the occurrence of ; the subperiosteal hsemorrhages. In every case the disease seems to have been the effect of improper feeding, chiefly an insufficient supply of milk in infants, and want of vegetables in older children. Barlow therefore suggests the name ' of infantile scm’vy ” for the disease. The treatment is usually successful if5 the'disease be recognized in time. Milk, lime-juice, and fresh vegetables,' with plenty of fresh air, soon relieve the symptoms.* MOLLITIES OSSIUM. OSTEO-MALACIA. A most destructive and dangerous disease of the bones, characterized by softening and fragility of the osseous structure, is occasionally met with. This i affection has been studied with much attention by Curling, Solly, Stanley, MacIntyre, and Litzmann ; and it is principally from their labom*s that we | are acquainted with the chief facts relating to it. i In this disease the bones are bent, or their shafts broken in various parts of ; the body. Occasionally, though very rarely, only one is fractured ; but in other i cases, as in Tyrrell’s, there may be as many as twenty-two fractures, or, as in Arnott’s, thirty-one. These fractm-es are unattended by any attempt at the foi-mation of callus. The body becomes singularly and distressingly distorted. On examining the bones after death the periosteum is seen to be usually redder and more vascular than natural. A section of the bone can be readily made with a knife, the osseous tissue feeling soft and gritty as it is cut. Tlie medullary For further information on this interesting disease the reader is referred to a jiapor by Dr. T. Barlow, in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, ’’ vol. Ixvi., p. 159.