ISCmO-RECTAL AND ANAL A DSC EES EE. 879 » Diitlet l.»e made for it, biu’db cither externally, or into the cavity ol the <>ut, or both ways. (Vide p. i)27, Yol. L). Chronic Isch.io-rect?jl Abscess, oeciirs insidiously in persons of cachectic, Itroken, or phthisical constitutions. A\ ithont much pain or local incon- venience, a collection of pus forms, which is iisiially limited to one side of the ischio-rectal fossa, but in other cases acrpiires considerable mag’iiitude, denuding the gut to a considerable extent ; in fact, almost siirroniiding the rectum, and then spreading widely on the nates or hi}), })resenting all - the ordinarv characters of a chronic abscess. This kind of i)nrulent col- M: U'ctiou may form in this as in any other situation in the body, as the result of <-onu-estion or of some local irritation. I ha^•e several times seen it follow kicks, blows, or bruises of the lower ]3art of the body, or as a consequence of /si; the lowering of the vitality of the mass of areolo-adiposc tissue on the pi ischio-rectal fossa by Aveakly persons sitting on a cold stone, or standing for a .vtlj. lontr time on the ice or snow. In other cases the mischief appears to originate around the prostate, and an abscess forming in this situation may find its. '^j; way down by the side of the rectum. Sir B. Brodie attributed these abscesses, Y( .and the consequent fistulin, to perforations of the mucous membrane of the gut ; and although I think he exaggerated the frequency of this mode of pro- duction of the abscess, yet there can be no doubt that, in some instances at least, it occurs as the result of perforation of the bowel; either by ulceration from within, by the formation of a fissure, or by some foreign body, as a fish- Iw.me, transfixing it, and thus inducing inflammation in the areolar tissue outside the rectum. These abscesses are most common in young adults—not unfrequent in middle age, but rare at either of the extremes of life. I have, however, seen .sevend cases in children—two or three years or age—and they may occur and re<|uire o})eration in septuagenarians. Timtinmt.—In the treatment of these abscesses, the principal point is to prevent extensive denudation of the gut. In order to do this the abscess must lx; opened, so soon as the formation of pus can be ascertained to have taken }»lace, by making a free, and, if necessary, a deejD incision into the ischio-rectal 'pace by the side of the bowel. Unless this be done, it may either burst into the interior of the gut, or spread widely upon the nates and then give way. The, pus that is let out of these collections is always extremely ofiFensi^■e, even though iif)t mixed with any faeculent matter ; the near neighbourhood of the bowel i}q)earing to determine some change in it that renders its smell peculiarly hercoraveous. After the evacuation of the abscess the patient feels easy, and thinks that all is well, the discharge gradually lessening and the cavity contracting ; but it does not close, and a fistula will be left, which continues o exude a thin watery })iis, in which fccculent matter, |)crhaps, accumulates Vom time to time, giving rise to fresh outbreaks and extensions of the disease. Anal Abscess.—Besides the two forms of absce.ss just described as occurring- tl 1 II the ischio-rectal fossa, another is commonly met with to which the term j inal ab.scess may be apjfiicd. It commences in the submucous tissue of the pit immediately above the anus. Its cause is not always evident. It mav irisf from suppuration taking place beneath an inflamed })ile, from wound of -he inncons membrane by some solid body sncli as a fish-bone in the fieces, or ■voin the fonnation of a caseating tubci’cnlar nodule in the submucous tissue. I’iie }ius t!ms formed burrows downwards between the mucous and muscular d