107 STRUCTURE. i i where they are most closely a])plied to the wall of the sac ; the more external were first deposited, and occasionally are found to have undergone a kind of fatty degeneration ; as we approach the interior of the vessel, they become softer and more coloured, and at last, in the central portions, dark masses of coagulum are often met with. This colourless laminated fibrin was termed by Kroca the active clot as it is deposited only when the blood is in motion in the sac of the aneurism. It is formed in the same way as a colourless thrombus in a diseased vein (see p. 52), the fii-st step in the process being the adhesion of a layer of white corpuscles to the diseased surface of the aneurismal sac. These disintegrate, and thus determine the formation of a layer of fibrin. The microscopic examination of recent laminated clot shows the presence of numerous white , corpuscles which have escaped disintegration between the layers of fibrin. It is thought by some physiologists that possibly these are of a different nature to those which take part in the process of coagulation. In the older layers of clot no corpuscles are recognizable, but much fatty and granular matter is always foimd, which may have resulted from their disintegration. The part played by the adhesion of the corpuscles in the formation of laminated fibrin explains the influence of retardation of the blood-stream on its formation. In fusiform aueiu’isms in which the flow of blood is rapid tlmoughout the dilated vessel, adhesion takes place with difficulty, and no clot is usually found, while in sacculated anemisms in which the movement of the blood is neces- sarily much slower, laminated fibrin is always abundantly deposited. It will be afterwards seen that those modes of treatment by which the flow of blood through the sac is retarded, exert the most powerful influence in determin- ing the deposit of layei-s of clot. The colour of the clot varies in different cases; the more rapid the flow' of blood, the fewer red coqDuscles will be entangled in the coagulum, the slow'er it is the darker the clot will be. Complete airest of the circulation leads to the formation of an ordinaiy dark blood-clot, exactly like that produced when blood, withdrawn from the body, is allowed to coagulate. Clot of this kind is always found post-mortem in the middle of the sac of the aneurism, and is then formed probably imme- diately before or after death. Those modes of treatment which completely arrest the flow of blood into the sac cause the formation of a similar coagulum. It is the passive clot of Broca. Ihe layers of fibrin in the laminated clot are more or less concentrically an-aiiged, but no single lamina reaches over the whole sac. The older layers l)ear evidence of having been formed when the sac was smaller and sub- se<|uently flattened out against the enlarged walls of the sac (Fig. 4-15). The deposit of laminated fibrin exerts a powerful influence in preventing the too rapid increase of the tumour. The lining of the walls of the sac*^with Fig. 445.—Large Aneurism of Ascending Aorta, ]>rojecting against (and j)rotruding outwards) tiie ribs. Layers of Laminated Fibrine arranged in tlie direction of the Cm'rent of tlie Blood.