399 CONSERVATIVE SURGERY OF FOOT. i ; ?he foot, however, had a tendency to be drawn inwards, apparently owing to j he flexoi’s having overcome the antagonism of the peroneal extensors, ihis j eviation inwards was counteracted by the patient wearing a properly con- j: tructed boot, with which walking was perfectly easy. 1 Foot.—In looking at the division of the foot into its three great component arts—toes, metatarsus, and tarsus,—we shall perceive that firmness of gait is iven by the foot resting on the heel behind, and on the ball in front formed y the projection of the broad line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, lore particularly that of the great toe ; whilst elasticity is communicated to \e tread by the play of the toes and metatarsal bones. The elasticity of the K»t may be lost without any very serious inconvenience to the patient ; but le preservation of stability and firmness of gait are of essential importance ; ad as these are secured by the heel, the ball of the great toe, and the breadth f the anterior part of the foot, these are the most important parts to preserve I all resections of this part of the body. In no region of the body have the good effects of modern conservative sur- ery been more distinctly shown than in the Tarsus. In the “good old times” Surgery, if a person had a “white swelling ” of the bones of the foot, or a aseased tarsus, he was at once condemned to amputation of the limb. No istinction was drawn between disease of the different parts of the foot, nor ly attempt made to save the sound by the sacrifice of the diseased part. Until a comparatively recent period, indeed, “diseased tarsus” was described 5 a whole. Surgeons did not endeavour to make out the exact extent and nount of the disease, and any case described as “diseased tarsus” was looked •Don as requiring amputation of the leg. The rule of practice then observed las, amongst the wealthier classes—those who could afford the expense of a ^cork leg ”—to amputate a little above the ankle ; but, amongst the poorer tasses, to remove the leg about a couple of inches below the knee, so as to give e patient a stump which, when bent, would fit into the socket of a wooden Thus, in the latter case especially, not only was the leg, itself perfectly und, sacrificed, but the patient was exposed to great additional danger ; for there be one point more than another which has been indisputably proved by aAjgical statistics, it is, that the mortality after amputation increases, ccetmis iribus, in exact proportion as we approach the trunk—every additional inch rl iiich we remove augmenting the danger to the patient. This practice con- i^fidued to prevail until Chopart drew some distinctions between the treatment be pursued, according as the disease affected the anterior or the posterior rsal bones and articulations. He showed that, when the anterior articulations ily were affected, amputation at the junction of the astragalus and calcaneum ith the scaphoid and cuboid—an operation which goes by the name of |o| Ohopart’s amputation ”—ought to be performed ; thus removing the whole the disease, and allowing the patient to recover with a shortened foot, with e heel preserved—one on which he could bear the weight of his body, and lich would be highly useful to him. The next step in the conservative surgery of the lower extremity, in cases of 'Seased foot, was the operation introduced by Syme—that of disarticulation at ti e ankle-joint. This was certainly a great advance; for, the flap l)eing taken 'om the heel, the patient has a stump on which he can bear firmly. The )eration is also a very safe one. According to 0. Weber, 17 deaths only curred in 101 cases of this operation. I have performed it mauy times