i88 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. in the ventricles, and the surface of it was inoistcr tlmn it is nsually found in a sound state ; hut in all otliei- cases which have occurred to me of organic affections of the brain ])roving fatal, except those which are sudden, such as apoplexy, there has been a preternatural quantity of fluid in its ventricles. There were also spicula of bone in the membrane forming the falx. The inner substance of the crura cerebri was of a brown colour, and more tendei- than natural. The optic nerves were smaller than natural, as if they had been wasted. The septum lucidum was more than usually dense. “ But the morbid appearance in this case, which was so singular, and to which the symptoms of complaint seemed chiefly referable, was two bulbs, about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling u]i the hollow on each side of the sella Turcica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries, and, from their being filled with laminse of coagulated blood, there could be no doubt of their being aneurisms of these arteries. The dissection was made by ]\Tr. Hunter, assisted by Mr. Home, in the iwesence of Hr. Jenner and myself, and all concurred in the opinion that these tumours were aneurisms. The one on the left side was the largest. That on the right side communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other.” Teeatment,—In the treatment of intracranial aneurism there is usually little to be done, the nature of the case not being sufficiently obvious in the majority of instances to justify active measures. Should, however, the loud rough whiz be distinctly audible over one side of the head, more especially about the base of the skull, or by application of the stethoscope to the mastoid process, and should symptoms of cerebral compression begin to manifest them- selves, ligature of the carotid artery on the affected side may with propriety be practised. This has been done successfully in a most interesting and instruc- tive case of intracranial aneurism by Coe of Bristol; and unsuccessfully in one at University College Hospital, by Berkeley Hill, in which death took place from hmmorrhage from the seat of ligature. INTBAORBITAL ANEURISM. “ Intraorbital Aneurisms ” were for a long time considered by Surgeons to t)e of the natm’e of erectile tumours ; but the error of this opinion was pointed out by Busk, and subsequently by Hunneley, who conclusively showed that except in those very rare cases in which a pulsating tumour of the orbit is congenital, or has appeared shortly after birth, or is associated with nmvoid tissue developed in the eyelids, it must be looked upon as being due in the vast majority of cases to the presence of an anemlsm or aneurismal varix at the back of the orbit. These views have been fully confirmed by Rivington in his exhaustive paper founded on 73 recorded cases of pulsating tumour of the orbit collected from various sources, and including one very interesting case of his own. The vessel affected aj>pears to be in some instances the ophthahnic artery itself; in other instances it would appear that the tumour is developed within the cranium, springing from the carotid artery, the ophthalmic being but secondarily affected. Helens of Paris has recorded three cases verified b} post mortem examination, in which the symptoms arose fr’om an arterio- venous aneurism affecting the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. Causes.—The causes of intraorbital aneurism are in some cases very obscure; in others, it evidently and directly has originated from a blow upon the head. I 1 -II h| -i '■I :n ■» 'fti II i i)i a Hi li )i i