3. Lameness is an early symptom. The patient walks insecurely ; has fl 436 DISEASE OF THE SAGRO-TLIAG JOINT. them, no cavity, no sign of tuberculous infiltration ; no evidence, in fact, of primary osseous disease. The ligamentous structures of tlie articulations are only partially destroyed. The interosseous ligament was especially in a sound state ; it had preserved to a great extent its firmness, and required to be divided with the scalpel in order to expose the interior of the joint and the opposed osseous surfaces. The structures that appear chiefly to have suffered are the synovial and cartilaginous elements of the joint. These are normally but imperfectly developed in the sacro-iliac articulation, but may, probably enough, readily undergo disorganizing changes somewhat analogous to those which take place in the so-called “ puljDy degeneration of the synovial mem- brane” in strumous joints. Symptoms.—The symptoms characteristic of this affection arrange them- selves in five distinct groups—viz., Pain, Swelling, Lameness, Alteration in the Shape of the Limb, and Abscess. These we must study separately. 1. Pain.—One of the earliest symptoms is a sensation of painful weakness at the lower part of the back and sacrum, increased by movements of the body in walking, stooping, or even in standing, giving the sensation as if the body were falling asunder. The pain is increased by any effort that calls the respiratory muscles into action, such as coughing, sneezing, or laughing, and is greatly aggravated by straining at stool. As the disease advances, the paiu becomes more continuous, and of a gnawing or rheumatic character. Its intensity varies greatly; in some instances it is throughout slight, except ou movement, in others it is most intensely agonizing, the patient shrieking with agony, and unable to obtain rest in any position. The pain in the gluteal region may in some cases be due to irritation of the lumbo-sacral cord, which lies in close contact with the articulation. It is accompanied by a peculiar feeling of weakness, of falling asunder, or of want of support in the lower parts of the body. This pain is confined to the gluteal region and groin, and does not extend far down the limb. When the patient is lying on his back or side, the limb on the affected side may be ab- or adducted, or the head of the thigh-bone may be pressed up against the acetabulum, without any increase of pain, provided the pelvis be fixed by the pressure of the hands. If this be not done, considerable, even intolerable pain will be experienced on moving the limb. So, also, if the Surgeon seize the sides of the pelvis in his hands, and move them to and fro, or press them together transversely, or separate them by pressing the anterior superior spines asunder, pain will be elicited, the affected joint being then influenced by the movement communicated to it. There is often general and diffused ten- derness on pressure over the gluteal region ; but this is less about, the hip- joint than in coxalgia, and gradually increases as the finger is pressed. back- wards upon the sacro-iliac articulation, so that it may at last be localized in a.i small spot. 2. Swelling.—A puffy intumescence is perceptible early in the disease, along the line of the affected articulation. It assumes a somewhat elong-.itci appearance from above downwards, and does not extend to any distance out wards under the gluteal muscles, nor does it invade the natural hollow behin the trochanter. As the disease advances, and suppuration takes place, th' swelling increases materially, and assumes different and peculiar charactei*s, owing to the formation and diffusion of abscess.