24 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. might he useful; but if the pain be occasioned by any pressure to which this nerve may be subjected in its passage through its canal by a carious state of the bones, or by disease of the periosteum, it would be unavailing ; though it ( is a remarkable fact, that it not unfrequently happens that there is after these * operations a temporary cessation of pain for a few weeks or months. In some of these cases, however, the pain shifts its seat from the branch operated on to another division of the same trunk ; thus, if the infraorbital have been divided, the inferior dental or submental nerve becomes the seat of pain. Or this may ascend, as it were, to the point at which the nerve was divided; thus, after amputation for neuralgia of the knee, the pain may return in the stump, and again when this is removed a second or even third time. Facial Neuralgia is the most common form of the disease. It may affect any one of the branches of the fifth, or in extreme cases almost every part at the same time. The various divisions of this nerve have, therefore, been most frequently stretched or divided for neuralgia, and it is necessary briefly to describe the operative procedure requfted in the case of each nerve. First or Ophthalmic Division of the Fifth.—It is evident that the frontal branch of this nerve is the only part that can be either stretched or divided. The frontal divides about the middle of the orbit into the supra- trochlear and supra-orbital branches. The supra-trochlear is too small, and, as a rule, too much broken up into branches to be isolated and stretched. The supra-orbital, on the other hand, leaves the orbit usually as a single trunk, and can be isolated without difficulty. The position of the nerve is recognized by ; feeling for the supra-orbital notch, through which it passes. The nerve may ^ be stretched subcutaneously by making a small puncture with a tenotome about a quarter of an inch on one side of the notch. A blunt hook is inserted , through this and forcibly scraped along the bone until its point has passed the line of the nerve. The skin of the forehead must be pulled upwards so as to make it tense, and there Avill then be no difficulty in ascertaining by the sense of resistance whether the nerve has been hooked or not. If it be felt upon the hook, the skin of the forehead being pulled forcibly upwards, the nerve may be firmly stretched. Section of the supra-trochlear and supra-orbital branches can be done sub- cutaneously by inserting a tenotome about half an inch external to the line of the latter nerve, and passing it inwards nearly to the root of the nose. In Avithdrawing it a firm incision must be made along the margin of the orbit, keeping slightly to the frontal side in order to avoid wounding the palpebral ligament, which might be foUoAved by considerable extravasation of blood into the loose tissue of the orbit. To expose the supra-orbital nerve the skin of the forehead must be draAvn up and the eyelid down, and a curved incision about three-quarters of an inch in length must be made parallel to the eyebrow and a little beloAV it, the centre of the wound being opposite the notch. The fibres of the orbicularis pal- pebrarum may then be separated by a blunt instrument, and the nerve exposed as it leaves the orbit lying closely upon the bone. It may then be stretched, or a piece cut out as desired. Care must be taken not to wound the palpebral ligament, otherwise blood may be extravasated into the orbit and suppuration follow. The Second or Superior maxillary Branch of the Fifth.—This nerve, after crossing the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters a canal in the floor of the