304 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. usually presents one long curve backwards from the lower cervieal region to the coccyx, Avith a compensating curve forwards in the neck. In older children there may be merely exaggeration of the normal curves. The cliest presents very characteristic deformities ; the sternum projects somewhat forwards, with a deep depression on each side caused by the sinking-iii of the soft newly- formed part of the ribs atibheir anterior extremities. The deformity is com- monly termed “ pigeon-breast.” The depression is less on the left side, as the ribs are supported by the heart. The lower ribs are pushed outwards by the abdominal viscera. The angles of the ribs are less obtuse than natural. The clavicles show merely an increase of the normal curves. The humerus is usually bent outwards at the insertion of the deltoid ; the bones of the forearm are bent outAvards in the lower third. The inlvis is narroAved from before backAvards, more especially if the deformity commences before the child has learned to Avalk. The femur presents a single long curve forwards. The tibia wnA fibula are bent forwards and outAvards or forwards only in their loAver thirds. The deformities here mentioned are the most common, but other varieties may be met with. As the child becomes older it frequently becomes knock-kneed or bow-legged. Dentition is usually much delayed. This is an important symptom, and it is, therefore, necessary to remember the dates at Avhich the teeth should appear. This may be easily done by the following formula, which is accurate enough for clinical purposes. Taking the teeth in anatomical order, commencing Avith the central incisor, they appear at the foUoAving dates in months, 7, 9, 18, 12, 24. Progress and Prognosis.—Under proper treatment rickets can usually be cured. The bones then rapidly become solid and firm, and remain per- manently fixed in their abnormal shape. The concavities of the curves become partly filled up to give the bone the necessary strength, while ab- sorption takes place laterally to preserve lightness. This is often very marked in the femur, the antero-posterior diameter of which may be double the transverse. After recovery from rickets there is frequently early union of the epiphyses, by which the Avhole body is stunted. Muscular develop- ment is, however, often good, and the patient may eventually become sufficiently powerful. Rickets infinitely rarely causes death directly, but by impairing the power of coughing it indirectly causes the fatal result in a considerable proportion of cases of bronchitis in children. Pathology.—Beyond the fact that the red corpuscles have been found deficient in number, examination of the blood has thrown but little light on the disease. The nature of the enlargements of the liver and spleen are somewhat doubtful and require further investigation. In the bones the essential features of the morbid process are, first, an exaggeration of the processes immediately preparatory to the development of true bone ; secondly, an imperfect conversion of this preparatory tissue into true bone ; and thirdly, a great irregularity of the whole process. In rickets there is a growth of soft bone, but no softening of healthy bone. Such osseous tissue as has been developed before the disease commenced remains unchanged, unless absorbed in the process of the formation of the medullary canal. The pathological cappearances are best studied on a longi- tudinal section of a long bone. In normal ossification a thin bluish lino *