973 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER lATUOTOMY. ire cut for stone, and not from unavoidable cireuiiLstances that may follow the > uost skilfully performed operation. I: ^I’he Shock of the Operation, occasionally ])i’oves fatal, thou‘'h probably I nuch less frequently since the introduction of chloroform than was formerly the I nise. Yet, even now, patients occasionally die from this cause, induced either j i jy a very much prolon^'ed operation, or by the system being weakened, and : .laving lost its resisting ])ower in consequence of disease of the kidneys, perhaps of a latent character. I The State of the Kidneys influences the result of lithotomy in the adult I nore directly than any other condition. If these organs bo sound, the patient ' .vill usually recover ; hence in children, in whom the complication of renal ' lisease rarely exists, lithotomy is very successful, even though the operation is . proportionately far more severe in them than in adults. If, on the other hand, ^the kidneys be extensively diseased, the patient will commonly die, even though 3 he have been operated upon with the utmost care and skill. The condition ' ■of the kidneys that is especially fatal has been fully described in Chapter LXYII. j A Prolonged Operation, even under anesthetics, is dangerous ; and, j<iilthough it is certainly not well to operate against time, yet it is undoubtedly |;«idvantageous to finish the operation with as little delay as is consistent with ithe safety of the patient, even though he be anesthetized. Haemorrhage does not so often prove fatal, either shortly after the opera- rtion, or at a later period, as might be expected from the great vascularity of :the j)arts incised. Secondary hemorrhage, of a dangerous or even fatal ’character, may, however, come on six, eight, or ten days after the operation, il have known it as late as the fourteenth day. It must be borne in mind r that, when hemorrhage takes place after the operation, the blood may find jits way into the bladder rather than escape externally, distending the viscus iwith coagula, but not giving any external evidence of the mischief that has 1-occurred. Secondary hemorrhage will usually cease on plugging the wound twith sponge or lint soaked in alum solutions. Should it prove serious, how- ' ever, the actual cautery may be advantageously employed. In a case that occurred to me, the bleeding on the ninth day was stopped by wiping out 'i the wound with the actual cautery, a practice which, I have been informed by A. Dalrymple, was occasionally successfully practised by that excellent Uithotomist, his father. Cystitis is, in my experience, a rare sequence of lithotomy. I have, how- ^ cvei’, seen it occur, attended by the secretion of large quantities of viscid, ropy . 211UCUS from the bladder, coming away two or three days after the operation, ’.with tenderness in the suprapubic region. It may exist before the operation, ■^)V may be produced by long-continued or rough manipnlatioiis with the forceps in searching for the stone, or by the irritation of tlie tube. The •symptoms are apt to simulate tliosc of pelvic peritonitis. The Trcaimont coii- •sists of fomentations above the pubes, abundant diluents, and washing out the bladder with tej)id water injected through the wound. Diffuse Inflammation of the Areolar Tissue of the Pelvis, es])ecially f the layers around the neck of the bladder, between it and the rectum, which extend thence under the peritoneum, is the most frequent cause of death after lithotomy. This inflammation, which is always diffuse, followed by rapid sloughing of the textures that it invades, may arise from two causes : % ji < or