URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 958 finger, I have directed the assistant who lield tlie stuff not to witlidraw it, but, using it as a guide, have slipped tiio forceps along its groove and over its con- cavity, in this way making it enter tlie hludder Avith the greatest ease and cer- tainty. This manoeuvre 1 Avould strongly recommend in the cases alluded to. It is of the first importance to extract the stone whole Avithout breaking it, or even chipping fragments from it Avith the blades of the forceps. Xo ellbrt consistent Avith the safety of the jDatient should he spared in obtaining this desirable result; not for the sake of any vain display of manual skill, but from a regard to the avell-being of the patient. If the stone become broken by the attempt at extraction, Avhat happens ? The Surgeon is obliged to introduce repeatedly the forceps and the scoop in his attempts to clear the bladder ; the mucous membrane of Avhich, falling upon and enveloping the fragments, is liable to be pricked, bruised, and excoriated in the endeavour to seize them. The bladder requires to be frequently washed out with copious injections of tepid water, and the operation thus becomes greatly and dangerously prolonged. Even after much time and labour have been spent in these efforts, fragments are apt to be left behind Avhich may occasion great present imtation, and, if retained, Avill form the nuclei of future calculi. In children, and indeed in most cases in AAdiich the perinmum is not very deep, so that after the introduction of the finger the stone can be felt and hooked forAvards, the scoop is a most convenient instrument for its extraction; and in these cases I have often employed it in preference to the forceps. After the calculus has been removed, it must be examined for facets, and the finger must be passed into the bladder and its caAuty explored while firm pressure is made above the pubes. In this way the whole interior of the bladder is easily explored except in those cases in which the perinaeum is unusually deep. The interior of the bladder may be further explored by means of a searcher; and if other stones be fomid, they must be dealt with in the same way as the first. If the urine has been foul before the operation, it is well to sponge the surface of the wound over with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5j-)> to insert a little iodoform. The gum-elastic tule may then be introduced, and secm’ed with tapes to a band round the patient’s abdomen. This tube must be kept free from coagula by the introduction into it, from time to time, of the feather of a pen. The tube is of great service in preventing the wound from becoming blocked up by coagula, by which the free escape of the urine aA'OuM be interfered Avith. By means of this tube a ready outlet is given to the urine, the chance of infiltra- tion is lessened, and if there be hasmorrhage the woimd may readily be plugged round it. Iiithotome for Lateral Lithotomy.—Surgeons have, at various times, expended much ingenuity on the construction of instruments calculated to facilitate the operation of lithotomy, and to enable the operator to make his incision with absolute precision. Most Surgeons prefer to rely on their own skill to accomplish this, and mechanical contrivances have very generally and perhaps somewdiat unjustly been discarded. Of all the instruments of the kmd refen’ed to, that which is the iiiA'cntion of X. R. Smith, of Baltimore, is the most ingenious and practically useful. The instrument consists of a staff Avith appliances, and a peculiarly shaped bent cutting gorget. It AA'as first described and figured by Smith in 1831.