1166 DISEASES OE THE TESTIS AND CORD. of the pin, and carried between the iiitef^iiment of the scrotum and the veins, the wire being brought out at the second jmnetnre (J<’ig. :)(b)). Each ■end of the wire is now passed through the corresponding hole of the ])iii, wliich is twisted round and round repeatedly, each turn causing the wire to be rolled around the pin, and so tightened, till the veins are firmly compressed between the pin behind and the loop of wire in front (Fig. !)7o;. By this Fig. 909.—Vidal’s Operation for Varicocele : Fig. 970.—Wii-e twisted and Veins rolled up Needles and Wire applied. means the scrotum is quite free and uncomiDressed, and there is no danger of exciting inflammation or oedema. The wdre should be tightened fi’om day to day, as it causes ulceration in the veins until it has completely cut through, which results, usually, in about a week or ten days. Meanwhile, there is much inflammation around the veins ; this finally contracts and obliterates Fig. 971.—Vidal’s Operation: Appearance of Needle and Wire when removed. their channels. This method produces an effectual and permanent cure (Fig-. 971). Of late, I have been in the habit of employing a simpler method. I separate the vas deferens in the usual way, and then make a small incision, about half an inch long, in the front and back of the scrotum : afterwards I pass a needle ai-med with silver wire, as before described, between the vas and the veins, bringing it out behind ; I then return the needle, but this time carrying it in front, between the veins and the skin ; and thus the veins arc included in a loop of wire, without implicating the scrotum. The loop is then tightly twisted together, so as to constrict the enclosed vessels. This plan has a similar effect to that of the wire and pin combined ; by repeated tightenings the wire gradually effects a passage by ulceration through the veins, which arc obliterated by the same process. It has been objected to this and similar operations, that atrophy of the testis may take place, from the spermatic artery being included together with the veins. Experience shows that there is no risk of this. Even if the spermatic arteiy were obliterated, the artery of the vas deferens, the cremas- teric, and other branches, would enlarge and take its place. In most cases,