DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 56o I;l and carried sulliciently I6w to include any indurated prolongation of the ah- '' ) sorbents, should bo practised : the edges of the cut sliould then be brought i; together by two hare-lip pins with a twisted suture, as in the ctise of a simple ' bare-lip. When the disease occupies a considerable longitudinal extent, but does not dip down very deeply, a slice of the lip should be shaved off, including the whole of the morbid structure ; and it is often surprising, in these circumstances, to observe how the tissues of the lip will speedily rise to their natural level, thus preventing any material deformity from being left (Fig. 664). In some cases the disease occupies a square surface, and then it is neces- sary to excise a portion of the lip ; when this is done a considerable gap is left, requiring to be filled by some plastic operation of the kind that \rfll be considered in a subsequent chapter, which may be most conveniently done at the time when the excision is performed. When the disease occurs at the ansle of the mouth, it assumes a more intractable character than when affect- ing the free part of the lip. The same operation—that of free excision—may be applied to it here as in the former case ; but with less prospect of success. Should the disease be as extensive as in Fig. 665, the lines of incision must be so planned as completely to surround and to isolate it. C. Heath has very successfully extended this operation to cases in which the cancer of the lip had invaded the gum, and had involved the lower jaw, by removing a portion of the implicated bone, together with the disease, in the soft parts. Fig. 666 gives a good idea of the cases to which this oixjration is applicable. i ' i I it DISEASES OP THE PAROTID GLAND. Mumps or Parotitis is an acute specific disease, the local manifestation of which is inflammation of the parotid and sometimes of the other salivary glands. It is common in children, though it not unfrequently occurs in