470 DISEASE OF THE IIIF-JOINT. !i: great care be taken this may be oiDenecl, and thus the very mischief induced % which the operation is undertaken to prevent. Should the disease l)e found | to be so extensive that it becomes necessary to excise tlie joint, it can be i easily done without extending the incision. > Amputation in Cases op Disease of the Hip-Joint.—The question of | amputation in cases of disease of the hip-joint is one that must often have | presented itself to the Surgeon when he has contemplated the shortened, | wasted, and deformed member that is frequently left after the more advanced 1 forms of the disease, and which can never be rendered useful as a basis i of support to the body by any mechanical contrivance, however skilfully 1 designed, but must always remain not only a useless but a cumbrous 1 appendage. I It appears to me that in the more advanced chronic cases of hip-joint disease, this operation is justifiable, and, indeed, is to be advocated in certain circumstances. These are as follow :— 1. In cases where the disease is confined to the head of the femur, or where, if any portion of the pelvic bones be attacked, it be to so limited an extent as | to be readily removable by the gouge, excision would necessarily be the usual practice. But if the patient’s health be too low to bear this, or if the limb be so shortened, atrophied, and deformed by long disuse as to be incapable of j furnishing proper support to the patient, then amputation at the hip-joint would, I think, be a proper procedure. I do notj think that the mere des- truction of the cartilaginous lining of the acetabulum should militate against the performance of the operation : for we constantly see in hip-joint disease when the head of the bone has been dislocated, or after amputation at the hip- joint for accident or ordinary disease, that the acetabulum fills up with a dense fibroid mass after the destruction or removal of its cartilage. But, if the pelvic bones be so far diseased that the necrosed or carious part does not admit of removal, then necessarily amputation would not be justifiable. ; 2. When the disease involves the shaft of the femur, which may be necrosed, ; or atrophied to such an extent as not to leave a sound limb after the removal ! of the upper epiphysis, amputation would be proper. 3. Amputation would be justifiable after excision has been tried and has failed in securing a useful result to the patient, the limb being left short, weak, loose, and oedematous. 4. In a few cases amputation has been successfully performed when, after excision, the discharge from the sinuses had continued and albuminoid degene- ration of the viscera had set in. Cases have been recorded by Marshall and BarweU, in which, after the operation, the size of the enlarged viscera sensibly diminished, and the general health greatly improved. 5. Excision of the hip is occasionally followed by osteo-myelitis of the femur, and acute necrosis of the shaft. Should the patient smwive till the process becomes chronic, amputation affords the only chance of life. The operation was successfully performed under these circumstances a few years ago in University College Hospital. | ANKYLOSIS OF THE HIP-JOINT. AnJcylosis of the following its inflammation, differs in its degree ; of completeness and in the position of the limb. Thus, it may be fibrous or i