EXCISION OF THE SCAPULA. 373 stablishecl rale in surgery that it should never he removed unless it be the eat also of disease, rendering necessary that addition to the excision of the capula. Fergusson preferred sawing through the root of the acromion to dis- iticulating that process, so as to give gi’cater ronndness to the shoulder and to )reserve the attachment of the trapezius. Partial Excision of the Scapula has usually been practised for tumours f that bone. The extent of bone requiring excision will necessarily vary 7*eatly according to the size and character of the tumoiu’, and the severity of he operation will mainly depend upon whether it is the upper or the lower (ortiou of the bone that is the seat of disease. When the tumour is situated owards the lower angle of the bone, it may be exposed by a crucial or T-shaped acision, and the body of the bone sawn through transversely below its neck nd spine. In such cases the hmmorrhage need not be very great, as the main ruuk of the subscapulai- artery, or even the dorsal artery of the scapula, is not lecessarily divided. If the tumour spring from and be connected with the •pine and acromion, only projecting forwards over the shoulder and leaving the >est of the bone sound, and the joint unaffected, it may be freely exposed, the pine of the scapula sawn or cut across with pliers, and the mass turned off rom the point of the shoulder, without injury to the articulation or the impli- ation of vessels of any importance. When the tumour occupies the upper half of the scapula, the case is much lore formidable, and the line of practice to be adopted must depend upon the larts involved. If the disease involve the body of the bone, encroaching upon he supra- or infra-spinous fossa, extending forwards into the axilla below the Leek of the scapula, and thus coming into relation with the subscapular rtery, it would be wiser to remove the whole bone, than to attempt the resec- ion of the upper half, leaving only the lower angle, which would be useless to he patient. T\dien the body of the scapula is involved in a morbid growth, extending ver the greater part or whole of the subscapular or infraspinous region, and dretching fonvards under the latissimus dorsi muscle into the axilla, the case lecomes infinitely more serious, as not only must the whole of the scapula be emoved, but the subscapular artery must be divided, and the axillary plexus ' f nerves and vessels brought into the field of operation. In these cases, also, he question as to the preservation or removal of the arm has to be considered. V’henever the joint is sound, and the upper part of the limb free from disease, t should be preserved ; and, as these conditions usually exist where the disease riginates in the scapula, the contemporaneous or antecedent amputation of the rm is seldom required. Operation.—Excisiou of the scapula may be performed by exposing the tone freely by V-shaped, T-shaped or crucial incisions. The method most ommonly adopted has been by the T-shaped incision. A long incision is made xtending from the acromial end of the clavicle downwards along the axillary )order of the scapula to the lower angle ; from the middle or upper third of his a second incision is airricd at right angles reaching to the i30sterior border 'f the bone, nejir the root of the spine. The flaps thus formed are dissected ip and turned back, the trapezius being raised in the upper flap if it is not mplicated in the tumour. The acromio-clavicular articulation, the outer end >f the clavicle, or the base of the acromion is then cut through according to ^he extent of the disease. Fy feeling for the iiotch in the upper border of the