CAUSES OF ANEURISM 99 CHAPTER XLIII. ANEURISM. Br Aneurism is meant a tumour, resulting fi-om dilatation of the whole or a portion of the coats of an artery caused by the pressure of the contained \ blood, and communicating Avith the interior of the vessel, n Traumatic aneurisms have been abeady described (Vol. I., p. 445). Spon- taneous aneurisms, arising from disease of the coats of the artery, are alone 4|| considered in the present chapter. Causes.—The causes of aneurism are divisible into those that predispose to, 11 and those that excite the.disease. Aneurism is Predisposed to by any affection of the arterial coats that lessens the elastic resiliency of the vessel, and at the Nsame time Aveakens its resisting power. When an artery has undergone any of the changes described in the last chapter by Avhich the natural elasticity of the walls is diminished, it becomes less able to contract on its contents, and to recover during the diastole from the distension occurring during the systolic impulse, and thus either complete or partial dilatation of its cavity c takes place. I believe that this loss of elasticity and of power of contracting on its contents, Avhich eventually results in the dilatation of the vessel, never 1-occurs except as the result of preAdous disease of the coats. In the A^ery : numerous specimens of dilated arteries that I have examined, I have never found one that had not undergone fatty degeneration, or atheromatous soften- ing. Calcification preA^ents rather than faAmurs dilatation of the artery, by hardening the coats and converting them into rigid inelastic tubes; but atheroma softens them, and causes yielding of that portion of the vessel affected by it. I have frequently observed that the Avhole of an artery might -be healthy except at one part, where there Avas an atheromatous patch, and - vhere the vessel was dilated; or that the Avhole of its coats might be calcified except at one spot, Avhere softening had taken place, and Avhere consequently ;they had yielded under the outAvard pressure of the contained blood. As aneurism, therefore, may be looked upon as one of the sequences of fs^atheroma, the predisposing causes of the one condition must necessarily be the same as those of the other. Hence we find that age, gout, and syphilis influence the occuiTence of the aneurismal disease by laying its foundations in !t|die development of atheroma. Age exercises a poAverful predisposing influence on the occurrence of aneurism. It is during the middle period of life, about the ages of thirty and- if'-forty, that aneurisms are most frequently met Avith ; at those ages, indeed, Avhen i:he arteries have already commenced to lose their elasticity, in consequence of idegeneratiA'e changes, Avhilst, at the same time, the heart has not lost any of ■ ts impulsive force, or the general muscular system its contractile vigour ; and when the enfeebled and inelastic vessels, becoming exposed to poAverful rauses of distension, may readily give Avay or be expanded at some one Aveak- 3iied point. This disease is excessively rare before pubeity, yet is occasionallv ♦