431 SAYJ^JE'S JACKET AND JURY A[AST. rt'hole (Fig. oTo). The straps being now removed, tlie child is laid upon a mattress. As soon as the case is dry, the abdominal pad is withdrawn ; and the oatient, when erect, is Ibnnd to be from one to one-and-a-half inch taller. In oases of caries of the cervical region, a head-piece is adjusted to the body-case, by means of which the spine may be relieved of the weight of the head. After :\vo or three months, the case may be slit down the front and fastened with M jyelets. After such treatment, it is commonly seen that respiration becomes v}as and the circulation free, while symptoms duo to irritation of nerves uibside. Sayre strongly insists on the importance of practical details, such f^li is the use of loose-textured bandages and suitable plaster, a closely fitting ilastic shirt, and, above all, securing a perfect adaptation of the case. The essential points to be attained by this treatment are : 1st. Moderate \ ixtension of the diseased spine by suspension ; 2nd. Fixation of the spine I vhen so extended in a firm and light casing. The plaster-bandage must not I herefore be looked upon as a mere substitute for the ordinary apparatus. It ulfils one indication which the more mechanical contrivance cannot accom- )lish—by securing moderate extension of the diseased spine at the time of its ipplication. It is more especially in cases of the ower dorsal and lumbar vertebrae that the plaster )f Paris jacket is so useful. AVhen the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae are effected, a special contrivance (Fig. 575) is required 0 ; -0 steady the head. A well-made plaster-jacket vill last and should be worn for at least six or eight 1 months without change; Jackets made of softened leather or felt “ poro- Dlastic,” as they are termed, may be moulded on n the same way—the patient being suspended fom Saju-e’s triangle. They are useful after tho )laster-jacket has been discontinued, and have the ^vantage of being removable for purposes of iblution. With regard to the value of counter-irritants, uch as blistei-s, issues, moxm, or the actual cautery, nuch difference of opinion exists amongst Surgeons. ?or my own part I believe them to be of little use in any case, to do nuch harm in many by irritating and weakening the patient, and to be ndirectly disadvantageous in all by preventing the apj)lication of those nechanical means which are necessary for the rest and support of the diseased ipine. Should active counter-irritation ever be employed, it must be used in be earliest stages of the disease. Nothing can be more unscientific or indi- ;ate a more profound ignorance of pathology than to use it after abscess has )nce formed. The ordinary constitutional treatment that is adopted in strumous diseases mist be employed in these cases. Much benefit will be derived from the use )f cod-liver oil, iron, the phosphates, and above all good air—country or sea. ^8 m all other cases where bone is diseased, at least three years must be levoted to the cure of a case of angular curvature. Hut that cure consists ^nly irithe preservation of life, not the removal of deformity, which is "the nevitable result of carious ankylosis. Fig. 575.—Apparatus for Dise.ase of Cervical or Upper Dorsal Spine. Plaster Jacket Avitli “Jm-yMast.” (Sayre.)