DISEASES OF THE NASAL CAYITY—EPISTAXIS. 547 i congestion, or on an anaemic and cachectic state, in which the blood is tliiii, and I does not coagulate readily. In the first condition the epistaxis is often con- nected with congestion of the liver, and, when occurring in the young and jilethoric, it is often a salutary relief to the system. But when occurring in cachectic, aiunmic, and especially aged people, it becomes ol very serious moment; and in such circumstances the loss of blood may be so continuous and copious that, uuless active means bo adopted, a fatal termination may ensue. AVhen ejiistaxis proves fatal, it is by its constant recurrence. In these cases, I believe, the nasal lunmorrhage is always associated with a broken-down and unhealthy state of the constitution, dependent upon chronic visceral mischief, especially chronic Bright’s disease, with the contracted kidney and cirrhosis of the liver. The worst and most intractable cases that I have seen have been connected with hepatic disease and jaundice. Epistaxis is in some cases associated with purpura ; more rarely it occurs in patients suffering from haemophilia. It is sometimes a prominent symptom in sarcoma of the bones of the nose. Treatment.—Epistaxis must not be treated simply as a local disease of the nose. It is usually only a symptom of some constitutional condition or visceral disease that requires remedying before the haemorrhage can be expected to cease. Hence it is of the first importance to treat on ordinary medical principles those states of plethora or cachexy with which it may be associated, I or those conditions of disease of liver or of kidney that are met with in pereons suffering from it. In young people, otherwise healthy, and in slighter cases, epistaxis may com- monly be arrested by the employment of ordinary domestic means, such as the application of cold to the nape of the neck and forehead ; and its return may be prevented by the use of purgatives, or by attention to the proper resrulation of the menstrual function. o In plethoric adults the flow should not be too suddenly checked, especially if the pulse be very hard and incompressible. Should it prove very abundant, dry cupping between the shoulders, and the application of an ice-bag to the forehead, with rest, will be required. In anaemic and cachectic subjects, and in old people, the haemorrhage is often attended by dangerous consequences, and requires the use of active measures for its suppression. In these cases the following plan should be adopted. The head should be raised, an ice-bag applied to the forehead, complete rest and quietude enjoined, and gallic acid in ten-grain doses, or half-drachm doses of the tincture of ergot, administered at frequent intervals. Should the bleeding still be profuse and continuous, a cuiTent of iced wnter may be made to flow through the nose by means of the nasal-douche, or the interior of the nose may be sponged out with a solution of perchloride of iron or tannin. If this do not suffice, it will become necessaiy to plug one or both nostrils. This is best done by means of a plug of prepared sponge, having a quill or a piece of gum catheter passed through it for breathing purposes, and soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron. Should the hsemon’hagc still continue, the blood passing back into the throat, and perhaps being swallowed, the posterior nares require to be plugged as well. This operation should, however, be deferred until it becomes absolutely necessary for the preservation of life. Plugs in the posterior nares behind the soft ])alate are a source of very great distress to most people, and in old N N 2