74 DISEASES OF BLOOD VESSELS. the llavh loops ou tlie otlier, leaving hanging ends of thread of correspondino- colours. The tumour may now Ije strangulated by drawing down and knotting firmly each pair of white threads on one side, and each pair of black ones on the other. In this way the tumour is divided into segments, each of which is strangulated by a noose and a knot; by black nooses and white knots on one side, by lohite nooses and black knots on the other (Fig. 42U). The cicatrix resulting from the removal of a naivus is usually firm and healthy ; but, in some instances, I have seen it degenerate into a hard warty mass requiring subsequent excision. The ligature may be used successfully at all ages. I have repeatedly tied large active naevi in infants a month or two old without meeting with any accident. In some situations in which it is very desirable to save the skin, the naevus may often be cured by subcutaneous ligature. This is done by passing a curved naevus-needle armed with a strong silk ligatui'e as far as possible round the growth, immediately beneath the skin ; on the eye emerging the thread is secured and the needle withdrawn. The needle is then passed unarmed so as to include the other half of the tumour ; as soon as its eye appears it is threaded with the end of the ligature and draAvn back. The ligature is then tightened, and the nmvus thus strangulated subcutaneously. If preferred, the operation can be done with a common suture needle, which can be withdrawn and re-inserted where necessary without being re-threaded. The silk ligature separates by suppuration after a week or ten days. Attempts have been made to apply subcutaneous ligatures of carbolized silk or catgut, and then to push the knot in at the needle-puncture, leaving the thread to be absorbed. This method has not, however, been very successful, as either the ligature excited suppuration and was finally expelled, or after its absorption a return of the growth took place. Widely diffused capillary nmvi admit of but little treatment. Various attempts have been made to diminish the disfigurement by the application of superficial caustics, but the results of this treatment are not satisfactory. Balmanno Squire has recommended scarification of the surface with an instrument composed of a number of very fine knife blades set closely together, and from this some benefit has resulted. N^vi IN Special Situations.—Nsevi of the Scalp are more frequent than in any other situation, except, perhaps, the face. When occurring on those parts that are covered by hair, they are almost invariably prominent and subcutaneous : when seated on the forehead, or on the bare skin behind the ears, they are often cutaneous. The ordinary subcutaneous naevus of the scalp is readily removed by the application of the quadruple ligature. Care must be taken in passing the needles not to include the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, or troublesome cellulitis and perhaps suppuration may occur beneath that membrane. In general, it is better not to attempt the preservation of any of the integument covering the growth. It is true that, when removed, a clean white cicatrix is left which never covers itself with hair ; but this contracts, and in after-life becomes but little visible. The attempt to dissect down the skin that covers the nasvus is not only troublesome, but is attended by very considerable, and possibly dangerous, Inemori’hage. Those flat na3vi that are situated behind the ear are best treated by the free apiilication of fuming nitric acid, or Paquelin’s cautery. Naevus of the Fontanelle is the most important variety of the scalp-