GENERAL RULES IN ENCISION-OFERATIONS. 365 In the adult, after ossification is completed, the epiphysis loses its iinport- I ance as an organ of growth ; and may be removed, if necessary, without : interfering with the subsequent length of the limb, except to the extent of its i i*emoval. Instruments.—The instruments required for resection are of a somewhat varied character: strong scalpels and bistouries, straight and sharp-pointed. In addition to these I have found a strong-backed, probe-pointed bistoury with I a limited cutting edge, of great utility in clearing the bones. Periosteal 1; elevators of various forms are necessary if the operation is to be performed f ■ subperiosteally. The pliers should be of various sizes and shapes (Figs. 508 to i 511), and gouges will be found useful for scooping out suspicious patches on ) I the cut osseous surfaces. For ordinary purposes, a small broad amputating jt saw will be found the most convenient instrument for dividing the bones ; but I in some cases a narrow keyhole saw, or that introduced by Butcher (Fig. 533), Fig. 533.—Butclier’.s Saw. will answer best. The last-named instrument is especially useful when it is intended to cut the bone obKquely, or when the space is limited ; for, as the blade is narrow and its angle can be changed at pleasure, any required direc- tion can be communicated to the cut. I ahnost invariably use it in preference to all others in resections. But some Surgeons prefer, especially in resection of the knee-joint, a short and very broad-bladed saw, the blade being of breadth greater than the whole thickness of the bone to be divided. The chain-saw is perhaps not used so frequently as it might be. Operation.—The steps of the operation must of course vary with the different resections ; but there are some general rules that may be laid down as applicable to all cases. 1. The incisions through the soft parts should be sufficiently free to expose thoroughly the bones to be removed. By making them, as far as practicable, parallel to tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves, parts of importance may readily be avoided. 2. As little of the bone as possible should be removed. The gouge may be applied to any carious cavities or patches that appear upon the surface of the ' freshly-cut bone ; and, in this way, shortening of the bone by the saw may be : materially avoided. 3. In young children the epiphysis should, if possible, not be entirely re- moved, as it is on the growth of this portion of bone, or rather on that of the epiphyseal cartilaginous layer adjoining the shaft, that increase in length of the bone is mainly dependent.