DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1116 open the urethra behind or thron<>'li the stricture. In many cases the simple opening of the distended sinus beyond the stricture will be found the most convenient mode of treatment, especially if the operation has to be done in a hurry and without all the conveniences which surround the Surgeon in hospital practice. If, however, it is practicable, it is better to perform the operation from before the stricture, and thus to relieve the disease at the same time as the retention. Simple puncture of the dilated pouch behind the stricture is, as has been already pointed out, easier in cases of retention, as it is usually tensely distended and may attain a considerable magnitude. The mode of perform- ing these operations have already been sufficiently described, }3p. 1111—HIM. Another advantage of the perineal incision in these cases is, that it not unfrequently happens that urinary abscess has begun .to form, or the extra- vasation of a few drops of urine has taken place sooner than the Surgeon may have had any idea of : and if so, the incision through the perinseum will afford an exit for any extravasated matters, at the same time that it relieves the patient from the distress and danger of the retention. Should any mischief of this kind have taken place, it is not necessary to be so particular about opening the urethra with the knife ; for, an aperture having already been established in it, the urine will readily flow through the artificial channel thus formed by free incision into the inflamed or suppurating perinseum. 3. Puncture of the Bladder through the Rectum.—After emptying the bowel by means of an enema, the Surgeon passes the left index-finger well into the gut, feeling for the posterior margin of the prostate ; he then carries the trochar and cannula, which are long and somewhat curved, upon this as a guide, and, when the extremity of the instrument has reached the posterior edge of the prostate, he pushes it upwards into the bladder (Fig. 917). The seat of the puncture between but in front of the ureters is well shown in Fig. 937, which represents the bladder and strictured urethra of a man who died some days after this operation had been performed for retention from stricture. In performing this operation, the Surgeon perforates the bladder in that portion of its fundus which is uncovered by peritoneum, being bounded behind by the reflec- tion of the serous membrane, anteriorly by the j)rostate, and on each side by the vesiculm semiuales. In order to avoid wounding any of these struc- tures, he should keep strictly in the mesial line, and puncture immediately behind the prostate. In introducing tlie instrument into the rectum, the Surgeon should withdraw the point of the trocliar into the cannula, so as to avoid wounding the gut. and not push it forwards until he has tlie end of the cannula fixed against the spot where he intends to make the perforation. In making the puncture the instrument must be directed forwards towards the umbilicus. After withdrawing tlie stylet and emptying the bladder, the cannula should be tied in by means of tapes. It is often difficult to prevent the cannula from slipjiing out of the wound when only tied in, and thus exposing the patient to the danger of urinary infiltration. Fig. 937.—Seat of Pnnetuve tlirougli Rectum in a ca.se of Strit;- ture.