2 70 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. doubt that tubercle of the cancellous tissue of bones is a very common affec- tion. In those cases of dry caries of the spine in which extensive destruction of the bodies of the vertebra) takes place, with absorption of part of the granulation tissue and ossification of the remainder, ending finally in recovery, it is opposed to all our present notions of the nature of tubercle to suppose it to be the cause of the process. It much more probaljly results from an injury in an unhealthy subject, the inflammation being kept up by the tension of tlie inflammatory products, or more commonly by friction of the diseased surfaces , against each other. Osteoplastic Osteitis affects the cancellous tissue with considerable frequency. It is characterized by thickening of the cancelli by formation of new bone upon them at the expense of the medullary tissue. The spongy bone thus becomes gradually denser in structure till it may closely resemble compact bone. The process of formation of the new bone is the same as in . other parts. Osteoplastic osteitis of the compact tissue is often met with at the circumference of an area in which the rarefying process is going on, and thus not uncommonly a dense zone of bone is formed round a chronic abscess or a sequestrum. It is met with also in conjunction with chronic inflammatory processes in the compact tissue and in the neighbourhood of sequestra. In other cases it may occur as a sequence of the rarefactive inflammation, the i i formation of new bone on the cessation of that process exceeding the normal limits. Necrosis of the Cancellous Tissue is of common occurrence. It has already been sufficiently described under rarefactive osteitis. PERIOSTITIS. Inflammation of the Periosteum is frequent as a result of injuries, syphilis, or rheumatism, or as a morbid process dependent on disease of the subjacent bone. It frequently occurs in the neighbourhood of joints as the result of extension from the inflamed ligaments. Symptoms.—Simple Acute Periostitis (p. 259) resulting from injury, such as a blow on a superficial bone, as the tibia, is characterized by the formation of a swelling, fixed on the surface of the bone, acutely tender, and accom- panied by severe tensive aching pain, especially when the limb is in a dependent position. The skin may be slightly reddened and oedematous. Under proper treatment the symptoms soon subside in most cases, but occasionally the inflammation goes on to suppuration. In simple periostitis the pus shows but little tendency to burrow beneath the membrane, in this differing essentially from the diffuse or infective subperiosteal suppuration to be described presently (see Acute Infective Periostitis). The simple subperiosteal abscess may be followed by necrosis of a scale of bone, but more commonly after the pus is evacuated it heals without further trouble. Subacute and Chronic Periostitis may occur as a sequence of the acute form just described ; or the disease may from the beginning assume this form when it is due to syphilis, rheumatism, or occurs in a scrofulous subject. Chronic periostitis is always accompanied sooner or later by the formation of new bone (Osteoplastic Periostitis, see p. 260). The symptoms consist of a hard, elongated, but somewhat puffy swelling without cutaneous discoloration a node—not distinctly circumscribed, and attended by much pain in the part, especially at night, with tenderness on pressure.