SPINA BIFIDA—PROGNOSIS—TREATMENT. 413 j The tumour is distended by the cerebro-spiiial fluid, whicli is characterized ; >y its clear limpid appearance, by its low specific gravity (1003 to 1000 being ; I he average), and by its containing merely a trace of albumen, a considerable jj piantity of chloride of sodium, and a trace of sugar. The sugar can usually I le recognized only after careful separation of the albumen and concentration I if the fluid by evaporation. Spina bifida is not uncommonly associated with other deformities, espe- ially club-foot, talipes calcaneus being the most common form. Cases Iso have been recorded in which the child was at the same time hydro- ephalic. In these cases the central canal of the cord has been found ilated. Prognosis.—The prognosis of spina bifida will depend upon the size of the lunour, on the condition of the skin covering it, and on its situation. If it of small size, with healthy integumental investment, and without tendency 0 increase, the patient may live to adult age, provided care be taken to ’•rotect the tumour. If of large size, it is generally fatal, the child usually ying at an early age of con'vmlsions. In other astajices the tumour increases, the skin covering t becomes thin and red, ulcerates, gives way, and .eath results from septic meningitis. It may be tated as a general rule, that spina bifida is more iangerous the higher it is placed on the spine. Treatment.—In the treatment of spina bifida, he line of practice must be determined by the size »f the tumour and by the condition of the skin overing it. When the tumour is very large, and the skin •Ji|' overing it has become reddened, showing a ten- dency to give way, tapping and compression com- 0E|!ined offer the best chance of safety. The case rom which the accompanying drawing is taken •as cm’ed in this way. It was that of a young •irl. At birth the tumour was small, but it radually ii^creased in size, until at the age of airteen it had attained the following dimensions :] -Circumference at base 25 inches ; length over greatest convexity 19 inches ; ^ readth inches. The tumour occupied the lumbo-sacral, and stretched over ; | oth gluteal regions. It was tense and translucent ; the skin reddened, very jj min, and becoming darkly congested at the more prominent part, evidently in \nminent danger of bursting. Health excellent; development good I tap^Ded fme tumour and drew off 101 ounces of cerebro-spinal fluid. When emptied, <|J.n aperture 1^ inch long and three-quarters of an inch broad, could be felt at ‘ j be lower lumbar and upper sacral regions to the left of the mesial line. The I arts were well padded with cotton-wool and supported by an elastic bandage, io ill effects followed the tapping. This was repeated nine times in eighteen eeks, 985 ounces in all of clear cerebro-spinal fluid being drawn off; the 'irgest tapping amounted to 120 ounces ; the smallest to 93. After each 'Upping, methodical compression was employed. The ninth tapping was followed ■y signs of irritation in the lining membrane of the tumour, which became Teatly thickened, evidently by inflammatory exudation. The temperature Fig. 564.—Large Spina Bifida, cured by tapping and pressure.