207 LIGATURE OF THIRD FART OF EUBCLAVIAN. injured. Xotwithstaiiding these obvious advantages presented by the ligature of the snhclaviaii over that of the axillary artery, in other words, by performing Hunter’s instead of Anel’s operation for the cure of s]iontaneons axillary aneurism, there would appear to be a tendency in the minds of some Surgeons to advocate the latter instead of the former of these operations ; and to sub- stitute for one that offers the advantages that have just been mentioned a procedure that is not only much more difficult in its performance, and that interferes with the collateral circulation, but that is practised upon a diseased part of the vessel, in dangerous proximity to the sac. Ligature of the Subclavian in the Third Part of its Course.—In order to apply a ligature to that portion of the subclavian artery which inter- venes between the outer edge of the scalenus anticus and the lower border of the fii*st rib, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, the arm depressed as much as possible, and the head turned somewhat to the opposite side. The situation of the external jugular vein should then be ascertained if possible before commencing the incision. It may lie at any point between the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid and the edge of the trapezius ; most commonly it is close to the former muscle. Occasionally it is wanting. The operation is commenced by drawing the integuments of the lower part of the neck downwards over the clavicle and maldng an incision about four inches in length upon the bone, dividing the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and the supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus. When the tension is taken off the part, this incision will be found to traverse the base of the posterior triangle of the neck. The chief object of drawing the skin down- wards in this way is to avoid any risk of wounding the external jugular vein, for as this vessel perforates the deep cervical fascia about one finger’s breadth above the clavicle, it cannot be drawn downwards with the integuments. In some rare cases the cephalic vein crosses the clavicle and joins the external jugular. It would then necessarily be divided in the first incision. The next step in the operation is to find the external jugular vein. In order to do this the deep cervical fascia must be carefully dissected through close to the clavicle ; immediately beneath the fascia a quantity of loose areolar tissue is exposed, in which the lower end of the external jugular will commonly be found. As soon as the deep cervical fascia is divided great caution must be used, the areolar tissue being picked up in small pieces with the forceps and scratched through with the point of the scalpel or torn with a blunt probe or steel director. When the external jugular vein comes into view it must be treated according to its position ; if at either end of the wound, it may be drawn aside with a Ifiunt hook ; if in the middle, a double ligature must be piissed and the vein tied in two places and divided between them. Occasion- ally the transverse cervical and supra-scapular veins form a plexus "with the external jugular immediately above the clavicle, and the difficulty of exposing the artery is then greatly increased. The transverse cervical artery lies normally above the wound, and the supra-scapular is concealed behind the clavicle, but in exceptional cases they may be found in the space exposed in the ofKjration. They must then be drawn out of the way with blunt hooks. By combined cutting and scratching through the areolar tissue, the external edge of the scalenus anticus is reached; this is the “ directing line ” down which the finger is run until the tubercle of the first rib is felt. This is the guide to the artery, which will be found immediately above and a little behind