TREATMENT OF ORGANIC STRICTURE. 1093 onvard, and when it is stopped the bulb is gTadually diminished till it passes le stricture. The exact size of each part is thus registered on the dial. The employment of soft wax bougies has been recommended with the view ; f taking a mould of the size, shape, and direction of the stricture, by pressing ae end of the instrument into it ; but no possible advantage can be derived com this proceeding, and a Surgeon accustomed to the use of metallic instrn- .rents can obtain all this information with more certainty by the finer touch Horded by them. Treatment.—The treatment of organic stricture of the urethra may be con- ucted by the following methods:—1, Gradual Mechanical Dilatation; 2, Con- inuous Dilatation; 3, Caustics; 4, Forcible Expansion or Rupture ; 5, uternal Urethrotomy; (5, External Urethrotomy or Perinmal Section. What- ever plan of treatment be adopted, the Surgeon must bear in mind that his operations have to be conducted upon a tender canal endowed with exquisite ensibility, which sympathizes closely with the conditions of the general system, md in which improper violence or too active measures may set up a degree of -.mtation that will readily extend to neighbouring structures, and thus jeopar- iiize the life of the patient. But, though it is necessary to recollect all this, he lust not run into the opposite and equally dangerous extreme of adopting inefficient measures for the removal of the obstruction. A bad strictm’e is one of the most serious diseases to which the human frame is liable, and will hnost inevitably, if left to itself, terminate fatally by the induction of renal ddisease, or of serious local complications. We must therefore not hesitate to . adopt snfficiently energetic measures for its removal; and if these be properly conducted, there is scarcely any affection in which the Surgeon can afford his I patient greater relief than in this. At the same time, however, that local [means are being used, constitutional treatment should not be neglected. I Organic stricture is often more or less associated with a spasmodic or a con- jgestive condition of the urethra, and requires the same constitutional treat- • raent, modified according to circumstances, that is necessary in these affections —proper regulation of diet, avoidance of all articles of food that generate lithates, and care not to allow the urine to become too concentrated. Attention to the maintenance of the healthy action of the liver and skin will also tend much to increa.se the patient’s comfort, and to ward off the more serious consequences of stricture. In all except the slightest cases of stricture it is advisable, before beginning mechanical trcjitment, to subject the patient to constitutional remedies to diminish as far as possible the congestion and spasm which may be present. If any serious difficulty be anticipated, and if the circnmstanccs of the patient permit it, he should be confined to bed for a day or more. The bowels should be freely opened, and he should sit for some time in a hot hip-bath, morning and evening. An opium or morphia suppository may be administered at night.