DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 644 be found better to attach one end only to tlie inovaljle part of the instrument, the other being twisted round the handle, as in the figure. It then cuts by a 1. slow sawing movement and divides the vessels more surely. Middeldorpf’s galvanic cautery was much used a few years ago in operations on the tongue (Fig. 7t)3). By working this slowly, and not heating the platinum-wire beyond a red heat, the tongue may be removed without the loss of a drop of blood. This I have done in several cases in Avhich the whole tongue required removal, from the inside of the mouth, without any external Avound. The galvanic cautery cuts more rapidly than the ordinary instrument, and it was at first hoped that its use aa^ouM considerably simplify the operation. Experi- ence has, hoAvever, shoAvn that the charred surface left by the passage of the hot Avire heals more sloAvly, Avith more discharge and sloughing, than that left by the 6craseur. Secondary haemorrhage has occurred moreoA^er in a consider- • able number of cases after its use. It was urged as another advantage attending i its employment, that a charred surface offers a baiTier to the absorption of ' septic matter, but the fallacy of this idea has been demonstrated by experi- • mental investigations on animals. The instrument has therefore been abandoned almost universally, most Surgeons preferring the wire ecraseur in those cases - in Avhich the scissors or knife cannot be safely employed. In 1877, W. Whitehead of Manchester successfully remoA'ed the whole » tongue through the mouth with scissors, and since then the operation has been j repeated in a large nmnber of cases with excellent results. The operation is | conducted as follows. The mouth is efficiently gagged, and a double ligature ) passed through the tip of the tongue. The assistant in charge of this is { directed to maintain throughout the operation a steady traction upwards and forwards. The operator commences by dividing all the attachments of the » tongue to the jaAV and to the pillars of the fauces Avith an ordinary pair ,-j of straight scissors. The muscles attached to the base of the tongue are then i) cut across by a series of successive short snips of the scissors, until the entue r. tongue is separated in the plane of the inferior border of the lower jaw as far F back as the safety of the epiglottis will permit. Any vessels requiring torsion I) are twisted as divided, but a moment’s pressure with a small piece of sponge, :■ [ held in sponge forceps, suffices temporarily, if not permanently, to arrest any d i bleeding. A single loop of silk is then passed by a long needle through the remains of the glosso-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, as a means of di’awing forwards the floor of the mouth should secondary haemorrhage take i; i place. This may be withdrawn on the second day. The haemorrhage in this 1 method of operatuig is much less than would be expected. Whitehead states [4 that in tAvo cases he removed the Avhole tongue without twisting a single vessel. Treves and others have howeA’er met Avith very troublesome haemor-11 rhage during the operation. In a paper read before the International Medical I; Congress of 1881, Whitehead recorded tAventy-eight cases in Avhich the opera- r tion had been performed with only three deaths, two of which occurred at a • remote period after the operation. If only half the tongue is affected it may be removed by scissors in the ■ same way, after having been split in the middle line. When the floor of the mouth is implicated in the disease no oi^oration i> through the mouth should be attempted ; as it is impossible by this means to i extirpate the whole of the disease in this situation, and partial remoA^al of it i Avill be folloAved only by rapid recniTence and increased activity of development, i