DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 640 prevent the patient from biting it ; 2, to expose it thoroughly ; and, 3, to keep it under control. Ihe first object is. attained by placing an efficient gag between the teeth on the side opposite to the seat of operation. The screw-gag (Fig. 72G) may be used in some cases, but it is rather apt to slip. Fergus- ’s (Fig. 727) or Whitehead’s gag (Fig. 728) will be found more efficient. Fergusson’s is very difficult to keep in jDOsition when the back teeth are wanting, as it tends to slip forwards. Whitehead’s gag may then be of service, but it also is son uncertain if the front teeth are wanting. o Fig. 727.—Fergusson’s Gag. Efficient gagging is one of the most essential parts of all operations on the tongue, and in all cases it is better to entrust the gag to an assistant, whose sole duty shall be to see that it does not slip. The slipping of the gag and the sudden closure of the mouth at a critical point in the operation may necessitate a sudden performance of laiyngotomy, or may even cost the patient his life. If the patient l^e efficiently gagged the jet of blood from a divided lingual will usually be thrown out of the mouth, and cause but little trouble. If a gag be used which acts on one side only, the tongue must be fully exposed by a cheek- retractor (Fig. 726) applied on the opposite side. During the operation the tongue must be controlled by a strong Avhipcord ligature passed through it about an inch from its tip. If only a small portion of the anterior part is to | be removed, a single thread will suffice. In removing half the tongue two ; ligatures must be passed, one on each side of the middle line, so as to control | , not only the part to be removed, but the remaining part also, so that the j stump may be drawn forwards at the end of the operation to arrest | ■ haemorrhage. When a portion only of the tongue is to be removed it may be done by the ligature, the ^craseur, the knife, or the scissors. IWien extirpa- tion of the whole organ is decided upon, the ligature is not applicable. For the purposes of operation the tongue may be divided into three regions; viz., the anterior third, the central lateral portion, and the posterior part. Excision of a small part of the Tongue may readily and safely be done when the free anterior portion only is diseased, or when it is only super- ficially affected at its side or back part. The patient having been gagged the tongue is secured by passing a thread through it. It is then drawn well 1