DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 732 years in destroying life after being fully formed. In this estimate, ’which is probably cori-ect, Walshc agrees. Paget states that tlie average dm-ation of life in cases in Avhich the disease is allowed to rim jts course Avithout operation is four years ; but the statistics of Sibley and Von AViniwartcr give a period of only from thirty-two to thirty-three months. "Jdie average duration of life in cancer of the breast may therefore probably be estimated at about three years. As a general rule, the progress of scirrhus is slower in old people, in whom it occasionally gives rise to a kind of atrophy of the breast, with shrinking of the tumour. There are many instances on record, in which cancer of the breast is said to have existed for a far longer period than this; for ten, tweh’’e, or even twenty-five years, but there must always be a doubt as to the correctness of the diagnosis in such cases. Pathological Structure.—After removal, scirrhus of the mamma presents considerable variety in appearance. In the majority of instances it occurs as a peculiarly hard, knobbed, and irregular mass, creaking under the knife, when cut, and presenting on section a greyish or bluish-grey, semi-transparent surface, traA^ersed in various directions by bands of a more opaque character, and exuding on pressure a thin milky juice. The section has been very aptly comjiared to that of an unripe pear. In all slow-growing hard cancers the cut surface becomes distinctly concave, a peculiarity which distinguishes them from all other tumours. In soft cancers this feature is wanting. In many specimens masses of an opaque appearance and yellowish tint may be seen in the midst of the tumour. These are the result of fatty degeneration of the scirrhous structure. In other cases, again, on pressing the tumnur, small drops of a thick creamy fluid Avill appear to exude at various points. This seems to be the inspissated and altered secretion of the gland retained in the ducts. Cysts are occasionally, though rarely, met Avith in scirrhus of the breast ; these are usually small, and contain clear fluid, being deeply imbedded in the substance of the tumour ; in other cases they may be large and globular, and filled with a bloody or dark-green liquid. The microscopical characters of scirrhus of the breast are such as are repre- sented in Figs. 398 and 399, Yol. I. Excephaloid.—Formerly, when all soft sarcomata were classed as cancers, encephaloid of the breast was described as a disease of moderately frequent occurrence. Noav that the term is strictly limited to the softer and more rapidly growing forms of glandular cancer the disease cannot be said to be common. No sharp line can be drawn between scirrhus and encephaloid; what one Surgeon would term a soft form of scindius another would class as encephaloid. Pathologically the difference between the two forms consists in the relative proportion of the stroma and cells. The greater the projDOition of stroma, the harder the tumour. In the softer forms the cells are, as a rule, larger. (Fig. 400, Yol. I., p. 1020.) Soft glandular cancer usually begins deeply in the substance of the breast as a soft globular tumour, Avhich rapidly increases in bulk and infiltrates the Avhole gland ; the integuments covering it are not at first adherent, but are usually pushed before it, and speedily become permeated by a largely ramified netAA'ork of veins. In some cases I haA’e seen the integuments, early in the disease, oedematous and inflamed, so as to mask the subjacent tumour. The mass at first feels as if composed of seA'ei’al soft and rounded tumours, Avhich may communicate an obscurely fluctuating sensation, perhajis causihg the