151 TREATMENT BY INJECTION—IRON—ERGOT. warraut any hope of cure. About sixty other cases of aneurism of various arteries have been collected by Ciniselli as having been operated on before 18G8; but in these the methods used were so imperfect, that they cannot be fairly considered as bearing upon the question at the present time. When we compare galvano-puncture with ligature or compression in the treatment of external aneurism, it is, I think, impossible to hesitate for a moment in giving a decided preference to the latter modes of treatment, as the results that have hitherto been obtained are not such as would justify a prudent Surgeon in submitting his patient to an operation of this kind, when he pos- sesses such certain and comparatively safe modes of treatment as deligation or compression. In internal aneurisms, or in those cases in which the disease is so situated at the root of the neck, that the artery can neither be ligatured with safety nor compressed, galvano-puncture is certainly justifiable, especially wlien conjoined with proper medical treatment, as we have ample proof that with the knowledge and means noAV at our disposal Ave can perform the opera- tion AA'ith scarcely any danger to the patient, and in favourable cases with some hope of relief. Much Avill depend upon the selection of the case. Cini- selli has pointed out that the conditions favourable to success are, that the anem*ism shall be sacculated and opening into the A^essel by a narroAV mouth, of slow groAvth and of medium size, and, Avhen thoracic, situated entirely Avithin the thorax, and that it shall not in any serious way have interfered AA'ith the general health of the patient. These conditions seldom occur ; and when they are absent, the most that can be hoped for is temporary arrest of the progress of the disease and some relief to the patient’s suflerings. Injection aa'ith Perchlouide of Irox^.—The injection of anemismal sacs AA'ith a solution of the perchloride of iron has also been practised, with the aubaa' of coagulating their contents ; such treatment, however, is attended with great risk of embolism, and is in every way vastly inferior to tlin ligature or com- pression of the arteiy leading to or beyond the sac, and should never be employed if these can be practised. Aneurism of the gluteal artery has been successfully treated by injection of the perchloride of iron in at least one case. In cases, lioweA^er, in AA'hich, either from the situation of the disease, its complication with other and exten- si\'e disease of the arterial system, or its multiple character, ligature and compression are not applicable, an endeavom’ might be made to procure the clotting of the blood in the tumour by distal compression of the artery, before attempting to coagulate its contents by injection of the perchloride ; and I cannot but think that a satisfactory result might thus be obtained. Hypodermic Injection of Ergotin.—Langenbeck advocated the hypo- dennic use of a AV'atery extract of ergot in cases of aneurism, under the impres- sion that it might act on the muscular fibres scattered over the sac of the aneurism in the same Avay as it acts on the muscular fibres of the uterus, and l)y causing contraction might gradually diminish the size of the aneurism, if not cure it. He seems to have tried it in tAvo cases only. One aa’us an aneurism in the supraclavicular region (exact nature not mentioned), Avhich had been previously treated Avith moxas, and almost cured. The symptoms having returned, hypodermic injections of ergot AA’ere tried. The quantity injected varied from about i gi’aiii to o grains of Honjean’s Avatcry extract of ergot, diluted Avith three times as much spirit and glycerine. The injections Avere repeated every three or four days. Decided improvement is said to have