402 EXCISION OF JOINTS. the otlier strumous inflammations, and in its advanced stages demandino- Chopart’s amputation. It may be stated generally that the result of disease of the tarsus will Ije dependent mainly upon whether it is acute or chronic, progressive or stationary, diffused or limited. When it is acute, its limit cannot be defined, and after the removal of one portion the disease may be lighted up afresh in the struc- tures, osseous or articular, that have been left. When iimjre^sive, there will be found to be a general tendency to disease in, or disorganization of, the tarsal structures, and partial operation can be productive of little good. When it is diffused, extending into the large anterior tarsal or tarso-metatarsal articu- lations, partial operation can avail nothing. It is in those cases in which the disease is chronic, limited, and stationary, or nearly so, that excision and partial operation can be beneficial. Excision of Tarsal Bones.—Any one of the tarsal bones may be the seat of primary disease, which may be limited to the bone originally impli- cated, or may extend to neighbouring articulations, or through the whole tarsus. There are, however, four bones which may be looked upon as the most frequent centres of tarsal disease—viz., the Os Calcis, the Astragalus, the Scaphoid, and Cuboid ; and as regards frequency, they are commonly affected in the order given. The Os Calcis, from its exposed situation, large size, and spongy structure, is more frequently the seat of caries and necrosis than any of the other tarsal bones. Yery commonly the disease is limited to this bone ; in other instances it extends into the calcaneo-astragaloid or calcaneo-cuboid articulations. When the disease is situated in the yjosterior or lateral imri of the lone, the neighbouring articulations are seldom involved, and then the removal of the morbid structures by gouging will usually succeed in effecting a cure. I have frequently had occasion in this way to scoop out great portions, sometimes the whole of the interior of the calcaneum, with the most excellent results. Even when the cuboid is extensively implicated as well, and the calcaneo- cuboid articulation is the seat of disease, the disorganized structures may often be removed by gouging and partial resection, as in the case of which the cut (Fig. 557) is a good representation, where, by means of a JL-shaped incision, these bones were exposed, and their carious portions gouged out. Should, how- ever, the caries have affected the superior or anterior portions of the hone, then! the implication of the astragaloid or cuboid articulations may render the excision of the whole bone necessaiy, as the only means of preventing extension of secondary mischief to the tamus generally. So unfrequent, however, is disease of the articular aspects of this bone, that its complete! removal is very seldom necessary. Out of at least fifty cases of caries of thej os calcis that have been under my care, I have had occasion to excise the wholej bone only once ; and Fergusson states that he has never yet found it ncces-