DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 442 In the arihritic form the pain is always very acute, even intense, seated in the joint itself, and greatly increased hy any movement, however slight, of the limb. In the acetabular form of the disease the pain is not at first rcfeiTed to the joint, hut rather to the iliac fossa or side of the pelvis; it afterwards becomes severe, gnawing, and deeply seated in the articulation. However slight the pain may be, it is always greatly increased by moving the limb, by pressing the surfaces of the articulation together, or by abduction or rotation. Plence the patient usually keeps the foot raised, and merely supported on the point of the toes, the knee and hip being flexed and adducted. 2. The Attitude of the limb is peculiar, aud varies in different stages of the disease. In the early stage the limb is usually slightly flexed, abducted and rotated outwards, or in other words assumes the position of natural rest. The cause of this position has been the subject of much discussion. It has been proved experimentally by Bonnet and others, that the limb can be made to assume this attitude by forcibly injecting fluid, so as tensely to distend the capsule. The accom- panying figure well shows this fact. It is from a photograph kindly furnished me by A. E. Barker, of a preparation made by himself. The right hip-joint was forcibly distended with fluid injected through a hole, drilled into it through the ilio-pectineal eminence. That the limb may therefore assume the position from distension of the capsule by effusion from the synovial mem- brane cannot be doubted ; but in the great majority of cases of hip-disease there is no reason to believe that any such distension takes place. That the position is not merely mechanical is shown moreover by the fact that in the early stages of the disease it usually disappears under chloroform. It may, however, be assumed that the position taken by the limb when all the ligaments are tensely stretched by injecting the joint, is also that in which there would be the most perfect general relaxation if the fluid were let out ; this position would therefore be involuntarily assumed by the patient when the capsule is inflamed. It has also been pointed out by Barker that in full extension “ the leverage of the femur acting on the Y-ligament, and the tense anterior part of the capsule as a fulcrum,” Avill force the head of the femur against the acetabulmn, and for this reason the patient involuntarily keeps the thigh slightly flexed. Hilton attributed the position of the limb to a reflex contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint, consequent upon the anatomical distribution of the nerves, it being a rule in all joints that they receive branches from the same nerves that supply the muscles acting directly upon them. According to this view the flexion, abduction, and rotation outwards are due to the stronger Fig. 579.—Position assumed by the limb on forcibly distending the capsule of the hip-joint with fluid. muscles prevailing over the weaker. It has been suggested also that the