ANEURISM. 132 frequently after suppuration of the sac is very remarkal)le, ami must be owing either to the sealing by adhesion or plugging by coaguhim of the mouth of the aneurism, where it communicates with the interior of the artery. It is owinf>- to this plugging also, that in many cases the fatal bleeding does not occur at the moment of rupture, but only after a lapse of some days, or even weeks, and then most usually under the influence of some incautious movement of the patient, by which the coaguhim or adhesion is suddenly disturbed. Those cases are most dangerous in which pulsation has returned in the sac after the ligature of the vessel, but before the supervention of suppuration ; as in these the tumour is so freely supplied ivith blood that, if it burst, fatal haemorrhage will with certainty supervene. This accident is much more frequent in some situations than in others, and is more liable to occur in aneurisms of the axilla or groin, than in those of the ham or of the neck. The proximity of the ligature and the necessary inter- ference with the sac in its application, especially in large axillary or inguinal aneurisms, is undoubtedly a frequent cause of it. The large size these tumours rapidly attain, in consequence of the laxity of their areolar connec- tions, also favours it. Until recently it was believed that the occurrence of simple coagulation, instead of gradual deposit of laminated fibrine, was an important factor in the production of suppuration of the sac ; but our late experience of the treatment of aneurism by rapid compression clearly shows that the danger has been greatly exaggerated. In other cases it would appear that the fibrine, though properly deposited, acts as a foreign body, and gives rise to inflammation and suppuration in the wall of the sac and the smTOund- ing areolar tissue. Besides this, it has been very justly remarked by Porter, that the excessive handling and frequent examination to which an aneurismal tumour occurring in a hospital patient is usually subjected, may induce in- flammation and give rise to suppuration. The im'iod at which suppuration of the sac may occur after the ligature, varies from a few days to as many months. In the majority of instances, it would appear to take place between the third and eighth weeks ; later than this it seldom happens, though it may do so after the lapse of several months, as in a case recorded by Sir A. Cooper, in which a carotid aneurism suppurated at the eighth month. Treatment.—Wlien an aneurism is suppurating, and is on the point of giving way, it will be better to make an incision into it with antiseptic precautions, so as to let out the broken down contents at once. It must then be treated like an ordinary abscess, with a view to its filling up by granulation ; which, however, wall necessarily be a slow process, in consequence of the great size and depth of the opening. During the whole of this time a tourniquet should be kept loosely applied upon the artery above the sac, so as to be tightened at any moment if bleeding take place. If hemorrhage have already supervened, the case is attended with immediate danger. In such a case as this, the first indication is clearly to arrest the flow of blood, so as to prevent the patient from dying at once. This can best be accomplished by turning out the coagula and plugging the sac with lint or compressed sponge, retained situ by a firm gi’aduatcd compress, and well applied roller. The Inemorrhage having thus been arrested for a time, the Surgeon should take into consideni* lion what steps should be adopted permanently to restrain it. In some cases, indeed, though these are exceptional, the plug and compress may be sufficient i ( ! 1, r I (j ii i 1 t. > i i i 1