DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 748 and applying- a ligature round it witlioiit occluding the whole vein. Should the AYOund be more extensive, the whole vein should he tied. Billroth states that ho has had occasion to do this more than once, and, that no evil conse- quences followed, rarely even cedema of the arm. The safety of the patient depends very much, however, on the successful prevention of decomposition in the wound. Should the injured vein be bathed in decomposing discharges, the patient would be exposed to the imminent danger of septic thrombosis and pymmia, which formerly made Surgeons hesitate to apply a ligature to a vein. Entry of air into the vein is a danger which must be borne in mind while removing glands in close proximity to it. It is best a\^oided by careful dis- section, but should the vein be unavoidably in danger, an assistant should place his finger on it if possible on the cardiac side of the exposed part. Wound of the artery is much less common. It is most likely to occur from shaving the subscapular branch away so closely as to leaA'e a circular aperture in the side of the main trunk. It can best be avoided by not using sharp instruments in this region. Should it happen, the main trunk must be tied on each side of the wound. The after-dressing of the wound is of great consequence. A wound that i gapes immensely whilst the arm hangs down, will be found to close with the ! greatest ease Avhen the arm is raised and laid across the chest. If properly | dressed the patient suffers no pain during the healing of the wound, which is usually complete in about a fortnight; there is no constitutional disturlj- ance of any consequence, and the dressings need not be disturbed more than twice or thrice. Some form of antiseptic di-essing should always l)e applied. The plan that I now usually adopt is as follows—all bleeding points | having been secured by torsion or by ligature with fine carbolized catgut—the wound is thoroughly washed out with a solution of cHoride of zinc or carbolic lotion. The edges are then to be brought together. If much skin has l)een removed, and there is considerable strain in approximating them, this should be done by the introduction of one or two deep button-sutures of thick silver wire. The edges are then carefully adjusted, and kept in apposition by means of a sufficient number of points of suture of carbolized silk or catgut. Efficient di-ainage must next be secured by the insertion of one or two drainage-tubes of good calibre with a piece of silk attached, so that they may not be lost in : the wound. If there is a large bag of skin at the axillary border, tliis may be ' perforated and one of the tubes drawn through and fixed in the hole. A ! large and thick layer of iodoform wool is now to be laid over the wound and well up into the axilla, which must be carefully packed. Over this a still larger and thicker layer of salicylic acid wool, must be placed, taking in the shoulder and clavicle. This di-essing should be confined and supported by turns of a body-bandage well stitched down. It need not be disturbed for several days—a Aveek or more—unless the temperature rises above 100° Fahr., or the discharge from the Avound soaks through. The deep silver sutures should be taken out about the eighth or tenth day. The catgut stitches often become absorbed. If not they may be picked out Avhen the Avound is healed. After cicatrization is complete the part should be kept covered with cotton avooI for some months, and the patient cautioned not to raoA'e the arm too freely. In most aises it Avill unite by the first intention ; for owing to the yielding nature of the parts in this situation, the lips of the cut come into A'ery good aiDposition, CA'en I