70 DISEASES OF BLOOD VESSELS. Each of these different plans of treatment is peculiarly applicable when the disease assumes certain forms, and affects certain situations, 1. AVhen the nmvus is of small size, and occurs in such situations that its destruction by caustics, or removal by knife or ligature, would be attended by serious deformity, as when it is seated about the eyelids, upon tlie tip of the nose, at the inner angle between the eye and the nose, or about the coi'iiers of the mouth, it is best to endeavour to 2>vocure oVlileration, hy excilimj inttam- mation in it. This may be done in various ways. If small, the mevus may be vaccinated. If it be larger, the most convenient plan consists, perhaps, in passing a number of fine silk threads across the tumour in different directions, and leaving them in for a week or two at a time, until they have produced sufficient inflammation along their tracks, then withdraAving them and passing similar threads into other parts of the tumour. In this way its consolida- tion may gradually be effected. Another A'^ery useful plan is to break up the substance of the groAvth subcutaneously by means of a cataract-needle, or tenotome, and, in the inteiwals between the difierent introductions of this instriunent, to keep up pressure upon the tumour. In other cases, again, the requisite amount of consolidation Avill be induced by passing acupuncture- needles into the neevus, and then heating them by means of a spirit-lamp. Perhaps the most efficient way of attaining this object is by injecting the perchloride of iron by means of a small glass syringe Avith a screw-piston rod and a fine sharply pointed platinum nozzle (Fig. 425). In doing this, care must be taken that but a very small quantity of the solution, not more than tAvo or three drops, be injected at one time. The perchloride of iron possesses extraordinary poAver of coagulating the blood; and, if more than has just been mentioned be thrown in, the tissue of the iigevus may either have its vitality destroyed, and slough, or coagulation of the blood in the vessels beyond the ngevus may occur, and a dangerous or even fatal embolism ensue from the coagulum thus formed being washed into the current of the circulation. In order to prevent this latter accident a tourniquet should be placed on a limb if it be the seat of the nmvus. If the nsevus is seated on any other part it is better to pass two hare-lip pins beneath it, and apply a temporary ligature beneath the pins during the operation; this can safely be removed after about a quarter of an hour. If preferred, tannic acid dissolved in water in the proportion of 5j to 5j, as recommended by Bryant, or a feAV drops of a strong solution of chloride of zinc, may be injected instead of the per- chloride of iron. 2. AVhen the nsevus is small, very superficial, of the capillary character, Avith an exceedingly thin covering of cuticle, and so situated, as upon the arm, neck, or back, that a moderate amount of scarring is of little consequence, it may most conveniently be removed by the free apiAkation of nitric acid. This should be Avell rubbed on by means of a piece of stick. The skin round the nsevus may be greased to preA'ent its being accidentally touched by the acid; and as soon as Fig. 425—Synnge for Injecting Nuivus. the caustic has been sufficiently rubbed in, it may bo neutralized Avith some