411 AMPUTATION IN JOINT-DISEASE. mb is peculiar. Instead of, as in cases of primary amputation, being dark in 5I olonr and retracting forcibly and unequally when cut across, they will be lf|jund to be pale, soft, flabby, and retracting but little, if at all; resembling in {lis respect the muscles in a dead body. In consequence of this alteration in i leir structure and physiological properties, the flaps need not be cut so long |\ I amputation for chronic suppurative joint-disease as in cases of primary rrii'nputation. . _ ( CircTimstances influencing Mortality.—The mortality after amputation r joint-diseases is especially influenced by three conditions : viz., the Seat of :e Operation, the Acute or Chronic Character of the Disease, and the Con- Itutional Condition of the Patient. The influence of the seat of ojjeraUon has already been discussed at p. 80, ol. I. " The duration of the disease exercises a most important influence, especially : the larger joints—more particularly the knee. As a general rule, it may i stated that, the more acute the suppurative destruction of a joint, the less 'ccessful is the amputation of the limb likely to be; pysemia being espe- illy apt to supervene. (See p. 80, Vol. I.) Illn very acute cases, the Surgeon ought to evacuate the pus by means of |il»?e incisions, and endeavour to postpone amputation until the active sup- Ijrrative stage has passed, and the affection has subsided into a chronic form, chronic cases, the success of amputation is very great. It commonly happens a.t a patient who has been racked with pain, and been wasting in body for eks before the local source of irritation was removed, sleeps soundly the ^ht after the operation, and rapidly gains flesh and strength. [ In determining upon the advisability of resecting a diseased joint or of i putating the limb, the Surgeon must be guided not only by the amount of jeease in the articulation, but by the constitutional co7idition of the patient. amputation the chief dangers are immediate—from shock, or secondary ! morrhage. In excision the shock is not so severe, in consequence of the I'ision being farther from the trunk, and through comparatively superficial 1 unimportant parts ; no large blood-vessels, nerves, or even muscles are 1 'ided, and there is no danger of secondary hsemorrhage. But in excision the jgers are chiefly remote ; the suppurative process is often long continued, I the discharge of pus abundant ; the patient may consequently not have icient constitutional power to carry him through. So far as erysipelas and emia are concerned, the danger is probably the same in both operations. . addition to this, it must be borne in mind that a patient, who would not ■ee to part with a limb, will often consent to have a joint or bone excised. Vs phthisis not unfi’equently co-exists with the advanced forms of strumous its, the question of amputation under these circumstances becomes one of }' considerable importance. If the phthisis be rapidly progressing, and re be a strong hereditary tendency to the disease, or if it have advanced to :ening of the lung and the formation of cavities, it will be useless to operate, however, the phthisis be but slight and incipient, and the progress of the '■■ase be apparently due to the local irritation of and discharge from the t, to the confinement to bed that this necessitates, and to the general nvatiori of health that ensues, amputation may not only be safely but antageously practised ; and I have performed it in many such cases to the lifest advantage of the patient.