737 DIAGNOSIS OF CANCER. Tlie diagnosis of cancel’ of the breast from chronic inlerstiticil tnfictMmcttioJi j )f a lobule of the gland is often extremely difficult. Both diseases implicate he mammary tissue, are ill-defined, hard, and often nodular. Ihe pain may 1 >e the same in both, and they may occur at the same age. If the inflamed obule be near the surface the skin may dimple oxer it as in a cancer, and in are cases there may be an enlarged gland in the axilla. As a rule, however, he inflammatory indniiition is not so hard as that of cancer, and more than ne nodule may be felt perhaps in each breast, whereas a primary scirrhus is I ways single. In the later stages, when cancer has implicated the skin and lands, the difficulty in diagnosis is no longer present, j A similar difficulty often arises in cases of chronic encysted abscess. Hero ' he distinct relation of the disease to impregnation and the slight oedema hnost always to be recognized over an abscess will serve to show the natime f the disease. Rapidity of groivth, although always a very suspicious circumstance, cannot y itself and without other signs bo taken as unequivocal evidence of malig- ancy of action. I have seen a so-called “ chronic mammary tumour,” robably a sarcoma, increase from the size of a hen’s egg to that of the adult 3ad in less than six months, and after removal not present the slightest udence of malignant disease, on the most careful examination. Recurrence after removal, though a very suspicious circumstance, is by no eans a proof of malignancy. Rapidly gTowing sarcomata will recur. This I ive seen happen five times in a lady, otherwise in perfect health, and without trace of malignant disease in the system or in the tumour {see page 727). ) also the recurring fibroid tumour has been removed eight or ten times from e breast, before its complete extirpation has been effected. In cases in which, after carefully applying the foregoing principles of a.agnosis, the Surgeon is still uncertain, he may feel tempted to wait until ne clears up the doubt and makes the nature of the disease evident. By so : ing the only hope of materially prolonging the patient’s life, should the ?ease be really malignant, is lost. In the present day, when our treatment wounds is so far perfected that a simple incision may be regarded as fr’ee >m danger and almost free from inconvenience, it is the Surgeon’s duty to t into ever}' doubtful tumour which may by any possibility be a cancer, and remove a piece for examination. In the great majority of cases the naked e appearances will at once determine the question whether it be a cancer or t, but sliould there still be doubt a scraping or a small fragment teased t with needles may be put under a microscope, which should be at hand ’ the purpose, and it is very rarely indeed that any doubt will then remain, such cases it is better to obtain the patient’s consent to do whatever may necessary before making the examination, so that no time may be lost and i whole breast immediately excised should it prove to be cancerous. Tiip:at.uknt.—In cases of cancer of the breast, the first question that presents jlf to the Surgeon is, whether any plan of treatment short of the removal of J tumour holds out a prospect of cure, or even of relief ; and if not, whether ; extirpation of the cancerous breast can be undertaken with a prospect of ding the patient of an otherwise fatal disease, or at least of prolonging her •stcnce. To these questions the remarks made at p. 1012 ct seq., Yol. I., on ; general treatment of cancer, may be considered applicable. The manage- nt of cancer of the breast, however, involves so many special considerations VOL. ir. H Q