DISEASES OF JOINTS. 336 opposed surfaces. If, however, the destruction has gone on to the extent of the formation of granulation-tissue on the surface of the cartilages, the opposed granulating surfaces coalesce, the new tissue becomes developed into cicatricial fibrous tissue; and the joint is permanently stiffened. This con- dition is described as fibrous ankylosis. If the cartilage has been completely destroyed, the opposed granulations on surfaces of the bones coalesce and i develope into bone, and thus osseous ankylosis results. In no circumstances : does cartilage when once destroyed become regenerated. Treatment.—In the treatment of acute arthritis, perfect rest of the articu- lation is of the first moment. Unless this be secured, no other treatment can be of any avail. The limb should be comfortably supported on pillows, or fixed by well-made and softly padded splints, or slung in a cradle. For the hip, knee, or ankle, Thomas’s hip and knee splints will be found most efficient. But not only is rest, amounting to absolute immobility of the joint, impera- tively required as the first means of cure, but there is a second means which is almost of equal importance, with the view of removing pain, and preventing destructive disorganization of the articulation and consequent ankylosis,—^I mean slight extension of the limb, so as to separate the articular surfaces very » slightly from one another, and to prevent the excessive and agonizing pain, ; that results partly from the pressure of one inflamed articular surface against ■ the other, by the tonic contraction of the muscles of the limb, partly from the » spasms that shake the limb and body from time to time, when the patient falls [ to sleep. These pains are not relieved entirely by simple rest and pressure— more especially that pain which results from the spasmodic action of the > muscles of the limb : but they are usually at once removed by extension, by | means of a weight attached to the lower part of the limb. This is particularly » the case in inflammations of the hip and knee joints. It is in these cases that | the weight-extending apparatus, combined with perfect rest, is so advantageous. | The weight should be proportioned to the age of the patient. Its use will ) often at once relieve pain, and enable the sufferer to procure sleep. Foments- i tions and usual topical soothing treatment may be combined with these means. In the acute stage of the disease, small doses of calomel and opium in piU may ' be useful, and at the same time the patient must be confined to liquid food ; < without stimulants. Leeches applied freely to the joint frequently relieve the ! pain and diminish the acuteness of the symptoms, when the disease is not due ! to a septic or infective process. Shoid these means be successful in arresting the progress of the disease . before suppuration takes place, the inflammation often continues in a subacute i form, and some modification must then be made in the treatment. In this i condition rest, absolute and immovable, is equally imperative as in the acute ■ stage, and may be secured in the same way. At the same time the joint may be repeatedly blistered ; but in many instances most benefit will be derived from the application of the actual cautery. This agent, when properly applied, yields much more certain and successful results than any other form of counter-irritation with which I am acquainted. The patient ha-s*ing been anaesthetized, a cauterizing iron, heated to a black-red heat, should be rapidly drawn over the diseased articulation in a series of parallel lines, across which an equal number of cross-bars are again dra^vn, so as not to destroy the whole thickness of the true skin. A good deal of inflammation is thus set up, followed by slight suppuration. When this has subsided, the apifiication of [