TREATMENT BY LIGATURE. I2I AVe will now proceed fco consider in detail these various methods of treat- ■iient. They are as follows : 1. Laying open the sac ; 2. Ligature of the artery I on the cardiac side; 3. Ligature of the artery on the distal side ; 4. Compression ‘oy instruments; o. Digital compression; fi. Compression by the elastic tourjii- juet ; 7. Flexion of the limb ; 8. Acupressure ; 9. Manipulation ; 10. Gal- vano-pnncture ; 11. Injection of the sac Avith coagulating fluids. All these various methods of treatment, howcA'cr they may differ in their letails, liaA’e, Avith the exception of the first, the same great principle in vieAV, viz. : the consolidation of the aueurismal tumour by the deposit of coagulum within it. When the process adopted is of such a nature as to lead to the i-sloAV deposit of coagulum, this will be found to be pale, firm and laminated, ithe active clot of Broca. When the deposit is rapid, it will be dark, soft and homogeneous, the clot. Ligature.—The application of the ligature to the feeding artery on the cardiac side of the aneurism, was almost the only method adopted by Siugeons Tor the cure of the disease up to a recent date. The manner in Avhich the igature should be applied, and the A^arious cautions respecting its use, have x)een sufficiently discussed (Yol. L, p. 411, et seq^.). The question as to the part of the vessel to which it should be applied in aneurism, remains for con- sideration ; and this involves some important points.- Situation.—There are three situations in which the ligature may be applied : 1, above and below the sac, by ithe old operation ; 2, on the cardiac side ■of the sac, by Anel’s (Fig. 450) or Hunter’s (Fig. 451) operation ; 3, on 'the distal side of the sac, by Brasdor’s or Wardrop’s operation (Fig. 452). 1. The Application of the Liga- ^bnre on both sides of the Anenr- k'ismal Sac is seldom practised at the )present day, Avhen the aneurism arises from disease of the coats of the vessel; but in those cases in AA’hich it occurs f'from traumatic causes, it may fre- quently be adopted as the best means of cure, even in aneurisms of the largest size, as has been mentioned in ;the Chapter on Traumatic Aneurism (Yol. I., p. 440). The older Surgeons, however, Avere acquainted with this mode only of treating aneurisms. The mode of applying the ligature to both sides of the sac is as follows. Alter liaving arrested the circulation through the aneurism, by compressing the •artciy leading to it, either by means of a tourni(|uet, or, Ariiere that is not api)Iicable, by the pressure of an assistant’s fingers, the Surgeon slits up the ^■uic, turns out the contained coagula and masses of laminated Hbrine, and dien, passing a probe npAvards and doAviiAvards into the artery, through the 'month of the sac, cleans the ves.sel and ties it on each side, immediately aboA’e b'Aud below the aperture. 4’his operation, as performed by the older Surgeons Inn any of the larger arteries, as the popliteal, Avas not only so difhcult in itself that Surgeons were .seldom Avilling to undertake it, but Avas so fatal in its results, being commonly attended by secondary hmmorrhage in consequence of f