1064 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. the circimifercnce of a circle hve-and-a-half inches in diameter. The eves should he largo and rounded ; and I have found it of use to have the lowei* end of the stylet provided Avith a ])iston-plate, so that, l)y Avithdrawing this the mucus may be sucked in through the eyes of th6 instrument. In intro- ducing the catheter, care must he taken Avhen the point enters the prostatic portion of the urethra, to depress the handle Avell betAveen the thighs, while the instrument is drawn slightly toAvards the pubes, lest the end hitch against the enlarged middle lobe (Fig. DKi). If it be simply depressed, Avithoiit at the same time being held back a little, it Avill probaldy tunnel the obstruction. In some cases the ordinary catheter passed in the same Avay Avill enter more easily than the prostatic. It is sometimes possible to lift the catheter oA'er the obstruction by pressing on it Avith the finger on the rectum. In fact, no one curve or one kind of instrument Avill ansAA'er in all cases. If it is neces- sary to use a rigid instrument, I certainly think a silver instrument is safer and more easily managed than the gum-elastic. It might l)c supposed that a less chance of mischief would result from the gum-elastic than from the metallic catheter, as being the softer and more yielding instrument; but this is erroneous, if the stylet be alloAved to remain in, as it is then as rigid at the point, as hard, and as likely to penetrate soft structures as a silver one Avould be. The patient himself should use a soft instrument, if possible, but it occa- sionally happens, as occurred in a case under my care, that no soft catheter of any shape could be made to pass ; in such cases the patient can easily be taught to use a metal instrument. Treatment of Complete Retention from Prostatic Enlargement.— In these cases the patient must be relieved by an instrument as soon as possible, as elderly people are liable to suffer severely if there is any delay, fever soon setting in, Avhich may bo fatal. It cannot be too forcibly insisted on that in these cases there is no actual narrowing of the canal. The enlarged prostate is no doubt SAvollen, but there is always sufficient space left for the passage of the largest catheter, if only the proper way can be found. Nothing is gained by using small instrmnents; anything below No. 8 or 9 (English) is liable to wound the SAvoUen mucous membrane, and cause troublesome haemorrhage. In complete retention the A^arious modes of OA^ercoming the obstacle in the prostate, AAdiich have just been described, must first be attempted, beginning with soft instruments, and using silver only after these have failed. If the retention is thus relieA’ed, it becomes a question whether the catheter should be left in the bladder or withdraAvn after the viscus is emptied. As a general rule, it is certainly far better not to leaA'e the catheter in, for the reasons given at page 1018. The - instrument should be introduced tAvice in the tAventy-four hours ; and care should be taken, if possible, to cmiDty the pouch behind the prostate by depressing its point. Should the mucus be very viscid and offensive, the bladder may be AAnshed out. After the bladder has been emptied for tlic fii*st time, it Avill be found to refill in the course of a A^ery feAV hours, usually in six or eight, the secretion of the kidneys aj)pearing to be set free on the removal of the pressure. Should any great difficulty be experienced in introducing the catlieter. it may be thought desirable to leave it in the bladder for tAvo or three days ; ami then a gum-elastic one is ahvays to be preferred, as in these circumstances it presents a great advantage over the sih'ei' catheter, becoming soft, accommo-