450 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. ently longer tlian the other. This is, however, apparent, and not real ; for on laying the child on its back, it will be found that the pelvis is placed obliquely ; the anterior superior spine on the affected side being at a lower level than that on the sound one, and at the same time turned somewhat forwards. IMeasurement of the limb from this point to the ankle will show that there is no alteration in its length. The causes of this peculiar attitude have beeu already described (p. 442). At the same time that these symptoms are noticed, the child usually complains of pain in the hip, especially on press- ing over the front of the joint, or behind the trochanter ; this is increased by standing, walking, or any attempt to bear upon the joint; abduction also, and rotation of the limb outwards, or forced extension, are particularly jDainful, and any concussion of it, as by striking the heel or knee, will greatly increase the suffering. At this stage of the disease, for the reasons already given, the patient will often refer to the knee rather than the hip as the seat of pain, and a careless Surgeon might be misled and treat the wrong joint ; the more so, as there is not unfrequently a good deal of cutaneous sensibility about the inner side of the knee-joint (p. 441). Limitation of movement (p. 444) forms one of the earliest symptoms of the disease. On turning the child upon its face it will be observed that the nates are somewhat flattened, the fold being in a great measure obliterated ; and, if it be a female, the labium on the affected side will be seen to be placed at a lower level than on the sound one. As the disease advances, abscesses may form at any part in the vicinity of the joint. They most commonly occur under the glutei muscles and tensor vaginae femoris; but sometimes at the anterior part, under the pectineus muscle. When in this situa- tion, they occasionally give rise to very severe suffering down the inner side of the thigh by exercising pressure upon the obturator nerve, which may sometimes become tightly stretched over the wall of the subjacent abscess. In the later stages of the disease the acetabulum is not unfrequently perforated, and the pus then accumulates between the pelvic fascia and the bone, destroying the obturator internus to a gi’oater or less extent, and Anally making its way upwards, and pointing at Poupart’s ligament. It is about this period that the change from the abducted to the adducted position (p. 443) takes place, followed by true shortening of the limb (Fig. 580). The shortening of the limb arises in chronic cases partly fi'om want of gi-owth consequent upon disuse, but it is chiefly due in most cases to destruction of the head of the bone, usually accompanied by dislocation upon the dorsum of Fig. 581.—Chronic Disease of Hip-joint. Sinuses on outer side of Thigh.