TREATMENT OF SIM RLE STRICTURE. 865 I with all the symptoms of acute intestinal stranj^nlation, death occurring in a li few days. Abscess occasionally forms in the neighbourhood of the stricture ; i iaud, passing down into the pelvis, may hurst either into the ischio-rectal space, i or into the vagina, or may present upon the nates. The discharge of pus from this source, as well as from the mucous membrane lining the stricture, which falls into an ulcerated state, may induce extreme emaciation and hectic, to which the impairment of nutrition conse(]uent upon the disturbance of diges- tion adds materially. Treatment.—The bowels should be kept moderately open, but purgation :arefully avoided, as it is a source of much irritation. Castor-oil, Carlsbad ^.ialts, or saline aperient mineral waters in small doses suit best. The diet should be carefully regulated, and the strength kept up. An occasional enema vill often give considerable relief. The surgical treatment of simple stricture of the rectum consists in dilating .the canal at its constricted point. If this be within reach of the finger, he dilatation can be readily earned out. If it be above the upper part of the ^.ectiun, and the stricture be tight, it is extremely difficult to introduce the proper instriunents with certainty. When the stricture is low down, so rhat the end of the finger can be introduced into it, it may readily be dilated ;.y introducing a rectum-bougie, every second day, and gradually increasing hhe size of the instrument. If the stricture yield but slowly, md be very tight and indurated, I have found it a conve- i. ient plan to introduce a sheathed probe-pointed bistoury ;ato it and to notch it towards its posterior aspect, where ihis may be done without danger to the peritoneum. A rent of compressed sponge or of laminaria digitata should :aen be introduced, and left in for twelve hours. On its •ithdrawal, bougies may more readily bo passed ; or the iilatation may be carried on by means of tents. When the ■T/ricture is above the reach of the finger, a good deal of lanagement will be required to make the bougie enter it. his is best done by laying the patient on his left side, id using a moderate-sized elastic bougie, softened in warm later and well greased, which must be passed without the nployment of any force. When once the Surgeon has •troduced one, others can readily be made to follow in the :.me track. The great danger in introducing a bougie . gh up, is that of mistaking the obstruction offered by its )int coming into contact with one of the valvular folds of ucous membrane occurring in this situation, for that of the rricture, and, by pushing on the instrument, perforating ■ e bowel—an accident that would probably occasion fatal "ritoniti.s. During the introduction of bougies, the bowels tust Ixj kept regular by means of a lenitive electuary, and e occasional use of emollient enemata. If much pain or irritation should occasioned by their presence, opium should be administered internally or ’ the form of suppositories. Though a simple stricture of the rectum mav r much relieved by the use of hougies, it is seldom, I thiidv, cured by thfs jeans ; there being a great tendency in it to contract so soon as the treat- I jnt is discontinued. n i