513 CONTRACTION' OF THE KNEE-JOINT. employed the carbolic spray and the carholic-gaiizc dressings. No sutures should he put into the wound unless it is of unusual size. The dressing may be left unchanged for one or two weeks, unless some discharge shows out from under it, as it may do at the end of the first twenty-four hours. After the operation the limb may be placed on any convenient splint for the first day oi’ two, until it is seen if the dressing requires changing, after Avhich a plaster of Paris bandage should be ap])lied. The age at which the operation should be performed has been the subject of much dittercnce of opinion. Experience has showm that if done too early relapse is very likely to take place. As a rule it should not he performed in children under ten. Before that age the deformity can usually be corrected by proper apparatus, aided by forcible straightening not carried to the extent of separation of the epiphysis. The results of the opemtion have been extremely satisfactory. In 1880 Macewen had operated on 220 patients for knock-knee, presenting :3G7 limbs for treatment. In addition to these he had operated on (54 patients (104 limbs), for bow-legs (genu varum), 40 patients (80 limbs), for anterior tibial curves from rickets ; one for ankylosis of the hip, and five for ankylosis of the knee. Thus, anti- septic osteotomy had been performed on 557 limbs, in many of these the bones had been divided in more than one place, so that in the 330 patients no less than 835 separate osteotomies had been carried out. In only eight of these cases did the wound;fail to heal by first intention, without suppuration. No patient died from the operation, and only three after it, one from diphtheria, one from tubercular meningitis, and one from pneumonia, which had com- menced before the operation was done, the patient having been operated on immediately after admission. These operations were in no sense subcutaneous, the wound in every case was at least three-quarters of an inch in length, and air entered freely beside the chisel. These results, therefore, cannot but be taken as important evidence of the A'alue of the antiseptic treatment. Contraction of the Knee-joint.—Contraction of the knee-joint is one of the most distressing deformities to which the human frame is liable. If it be severe, the leg is bent at neai’ly, or perhaps at quite, a right angle with the thigh. It is fixed in this position, so that the patient cannot put the sole of the foot, nor even the points of the toes, to the ground ; hence the limb becomes useless for the pui’pose of progTession, and, from want of exercise, atrophies. But a leg with a badly contracted knee is worse than useless—it is a positive incumbrance ; for, as the foot cannot be brought fairly to the , ground, the limb projects behind in a most awkward manner, swaying as the ! body moves round, constantly in the way, and liable to injury. From want of exercise, the nutrition of the limb becomes impaired, the foot is usually cold, the circulation in it is languid, and the toes become liable to chilblains and troublesome ulceration. In the less severe fonns of contracted knee, the inconvenience, though not so great as that just described, is very consideral)le ; for, as the patient can never bring the heel or sole to the ground, he rests iusecurely on the tips of his toes, and walks but unsteadily with the aid of a crutch or stick. VariptiPH.—d’his deformity may be of two kinds. 1. It may consist of simple flexion of the leg on the thigh, at a greater or less angle, and with more or less moihlity, according to the degree of ankylosis. 2. In addition to this, there niay be horizontal dis])lacement of the bones, the head of the tibia being thrown backwards, the femur and })atella pi'ojecting more than is natural.