744 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. II the course of the lymphatic vessels. If the cancer he situated towards the sternal or under aspect, however isolated it may appear, it will he found that the mammary gland will certainly have become inliltrated, lying as it does between the morbid mass and the lymphatics. When, however, the tumour is seated at the upper or outer border of the gland ; when it appears to be detached from the breast, lying rather in the axilla or below the clavicle than in connection with the gland; when the breast itself is very large and fot, but healthy to the feel, without hardness or retraction of the nipple ; when there is no sign whatever of deep infiltration—it may then be a question whether it will not be more prudent to extirpate the tumour alone, with the adipose bed in which it lies, and a deep slice of the adjoining mam- mary gland, than to perform the more serious operation of removing the whole of the breast. In determining this point we must, I think, be guided by the situation of the tumour, the feel of the breast, and the size of that organ. If the tumour be distinctly axillary, if the breast feel perfectly soft and healthy, and the nipple project, there is no reason to fear infiltration by cancer of the central and sternal portions of the mammary gland. I have found on careful microscopical examination of breasts removed for sciiThus at the axillary border, that the above-named parts of the gland were entirely free from all sign of disease. If the mamma be small and shrunken, the whole may be removed without any increase of danger ; if it be very large, the Surgeon best consults the patient’s safety by simply removing the tumour with a deep wedge-shaped piece of the contiguous portion of the gland; but if there be any hardness or suspicious nodulated feel about the mammary gland, if the line of demarcation between it and the tumour be not defined, and particu- larly if the patient be thin, so that the operation is not a very severe one, extirpation of the whole of the breast ought certainly to be jDractised. How- ever widely the parts are removed, the line of incision usually comes together readily and evenly, owing to the laxity of the integuments in the mammary region. I have observed in those cases in which it becomes necessary to extirpate tmnours of the mammary region, without removal of the gland, that erysipelas has more frequently followed the operation than when the gland, being affected, has required removal. Return of Cancer after Operation may take place in tlnee situations : in the cicatrix of the part operated upon ; in the neighbouring lymphatic glands; or in some internal organ or distant part. When cancer I'ecurs in the neighbourhood of the previously affected part, it is probably owing to the cancer-cells having become widely disseminated in the skin, the subcutaneous areolar tissue and muscles, or neighbouring lymphatic glands, and after the, removal of the tmnour these cells become the germs of new growths. In these circumstances it may recur in the cicatrix and then implicate the glands; or in the glands without the cicatrix having been previously affected. In local relapse of this kind, it often happens that the disease, so reproduced, runs its course more rapidly than if no operation had been performed ; the hypeimmia set up in the part during the healing process appearing to give augmented force to the reproductive energy of the cancerous growth. In some cases it returns in the wound even before cicatrization is completed, the surface then assuming the ordinary character of the cancerous ulcer. In other cases, the cicatrix, some weeks or months after it is fully formed, assumes a dusky red bt T. fi M P'