IXFI.AMMATION OF TESTIS IX CANAL. 1151 Abscess, us the result of inflammation of the testis, is of rare occurrence. Sometimes the scrotum inflames at one point, where fluctuation becomes apparent, with thinned skin and evident signs of suppuration ; a puncture should here be made, and the pus let out as soon as formed. In true abscess of the testicle the pus forms under the tunica albuginea, adhesion takes place between the testis and the scrotum, the fibrous coat gives way, and the pus gets vent externally through the integuments. Into the aperture that necessarily results a portion of the secreting tissue of thb gland sometimes projects, and, becoming inflamed, forms a red, granular, and fungous mass, protruding through and overlapping the edges of the aperture. The treat- ment of this condition will be considered when we come to speak of the scrofulous testicle. Inflammation of the Testis in the Inguinal Canal may sometimes take place, even in adults, when the organ has not descended through the external ring ; giving rise to a train of somewhat puzzling symptoms Avhich closely resemble those of strangulated incomplete hernia ; with which, how- ever, it must be borne in mind that it may be associated (p. 813, Vol, II.). On examination, a large irregular tnmom-, in some parts hard, in others soft, very tender to the touch, and occasioning a sickening sensation when pressed, will be found in one of the groins, in the situation of the inguinal canal. There are usually a tendency to vomiting and some constipation, with colicky pains in the abdomen. On examining the scrotum, it will be found that the testis on the affected side is absent; and, on passing the finger into the external ring, the organ can be felt to be lodged in the canal. In consequence of the proximity of the peritoneum to the inflamed testis, this membrane occasionally becomes involved in the morbid process ; and, as the result of the constriction of the tendinous and aponeurotic tissues in the situation, slough- ing has occasionally occurred. Either of these conditions may lead to a fatal termination. The Treatment should be actively antiphlogistic. Leeches must be freely applied over the part j salines with antimony being at the same time adminis- tered, and fomentations diligently persevered in. Inflaiumatiou and Abscess of the Cord.—In some cases the inflam- mation of the testis may extend, or the disease may, from the first, be limited, to the areolar tissue of the cord, giving rise to tumefaction, with a good deal of pain and tenderness along it, and eventually abscess, accompanied by the usual signs of suppuration. The Treatment of such a case must be conducted on ordinaiy principles, early discharge for the pus being secured. Chronic Orchitis of a persistent character constitutes a distinct disease of the testis, so closely allied to some forms of tumour of this organ in its cha- racter and pathology, that it will be more convenient to consider it with the Sarcoceles ( p. 11G7). HYDBOCELE AND H.ffiMATOOEIiE. By Hydrocele is meant an accumulation of serous fluid, formed in connec- tion with the testis or cord. IMost frequently the fluid occupies the sac of the tunica vaginalis, constituting a true dropsy of it; in other instances, it appears to lx; formed in distinct cysts, situated either in connection with the testis, or up(m the cord. Hence hydroceles are commonly divided into those that aflect the Tunica Vcnjinalis and the Encysted variety.