776 JIERNJA. is not uncommon in fatal cases to iind the coil of intestine free from gan,L,u’enc hut swollen, covered with a thick layer of inflammatory exudation, fixin;^- it t(i ! the neighbouring coils and evidently inca])able of performing its functions. This inflammation after reduction is a hict of great importance, as it shows ^ j the necessity of giving the gut rest as far as i^ossilde after the strangulation li has been relieved by the avoidance of purgatives or in-itating food. v I It ^\■as formerly assumed that in all cases of ])rolonged strangulation general peritonitis sets in. This assumption is not borne out by the results of the post-mortem examination of cases dying of unrelieved strangulation. In such cases, as a rule, local peritonitis is found at the neck of the sac, but the membrane generally is free from any signs of inflammation. Should in- flammation occur it is always slight, and. seems to be secondary to acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestine above the stricture. Avhich in too many cases is the result of the injudicious administration of purgatives. Symptoms.—The signs and symptoms of strangulation are of tw^o kinds: 1. The local ones, affecting the Tumour; and 2. The general ones, influencing the Constitution. 1. Local Signs.—The tumour, if the hernia be an old one, Avill be found | to be increased in size ; or it may have appeared for the first time. At the moment of strangulation it will generally be found to be hard, tense, and rounded, more particularly if it be an enterocele. When, however, the hernia is in a great measure omental, it is not unfrequently soft and doughy, though i strangulated. It seldom increases in size after strangulation has occurred, as no fresh protrusion can take place below the stricture ; but I have known it ( to be greatly augmented in bulk after the strangulation had existed for some i: hours, by the effusion of serum into the sac. If the hernia have previously i' been reducible, it can no longer be put back ; and there is no impulse in it |: nor increase in its size on coughing, the strictm’e preventing the transmission ;i of the shock to the contents of the tumour ; and in this way, as pointed out ; by Luke, the situation of the constriction may sometimes be ascertained by observing at what point the impulse ceases. In most cases there is consider- able local tenderness. 2. Constitutional Symptoms.—So soon as the strangulation has occurred, intestinal obstruction takes place, and the patient becomes uneasy and restless. If the constriction be of an active charactei’, he will be seized with acute pain in the part, which speedily extends to the contiguous portion of the abdomen. The first thing that happens when intestine is strangulated, whether a large coil be constricted, or a small portion only of the diameter of the gut be nipped, is an arrest of the peristaltic movement of the part implicated; and the occur- rence of obstruction to the onward course of the intestinal contents is followed ; by constipation, vomiting, and colicky pains. The constipation is always com- ^ plete, neither faeces nor flatus passing through; the bowels may sometimes act once after the strangulation has occurred from that portion which lies below the seat of constriction, but they cannot, of course, empty themselves thoroughl}, nor from above the strangled part. A^’orniting usually sets in early, and is often very severe and continuou?'. with much retching and straining ; at first the contents of the stomach au- ejected, with some bilious matters, but afterwards the vomiting becomes fmeu lent or stercoraceous. The cause of finculent vomiting has usually been sup-