356 DISEASES OF JOINTS. the limb kept at rest for- a few days until the incision was healed. Hcvere inflammation of the joint less frequently followed this coarse operation than might have been expected, the synovial membrane having probably undergone some modification that rendered it little liable to this process. It has, how- ever, happened, that acute synovitis running on to suppuration has set in, causing the patient’s death, requiring amputation, or leading to ankylosis. In the present day the operation is much more safely performed by the adoption of the antiseptic method. The incision is made directly on the loose body, without any valvular arrangement, and after the operation a drainage-tube is inserted into the wound for a few days until the synovial effusion excited by the disturbance of the joint has passed off. The carbolic spray will be found to give an increased safety in performing this operation. Should it not be used, the wound may be irrigated, and great care be taken to prevent the entrance of air into the articular cavity. It has been proposed by Chassaignac, in order to obviate the dangers of direct and open wound into the joint, to remove the loose cartilage by subcutaneous section ; this he accomplishes in a way that I have seen practised by Liston, and have often done myself, viz., by passing a tenotome obliquely under the skin, after fixing the foreign body in the way that has already been described, dividing the synovial membrane freely, and then squeezing the cartilage into the areolar tissue outside the joint, where it is finally fixed by plaster and bandage, and left to be eventually absorbed. Goyrand recommends the same subcutaneous mode of removal of the foreign body from the inside of the joint; but, instead of leaving it to be absorbed, extracts it at the end of eight days, by a fresh incision, from the areolar tissue in which it has been lying. A most useful modification of this method has been practised by Square, of Plymouth ; it consists in fixing the loose cartilage, dividing the capsule sub- cutaneously over it, and then pressing the foreign body into the opening thus made, retaining it there by a compress and plasters. In operating by this method on the knee, the cartilage should be fixed below and to the inner side of the patella, between it and the head of the tibia ; a long narrow tenotome is then introduced obliquely under the skin from a distance of about two inches below the loose cartilage ; the capsule of the joint is freely divided, and a space made in the subcutaneous areolar tissue by a slight sweep of the blade, and the loose cartilage is then pressed into the cavity thus made to receive it, and slid along the areolar tissue for about two inches. It is fixed in situ with a firm pad and adhesive plaster ; the foot and leg are bandaged up to the edge of the cartilage, and the limb is placed on a splint. If no in- fiammatory symptoms ensue, the cartilage is excised about a week after the operation; or it may be left to be absorbed. By the adoption of these subcutaneous methods, there will be but very little danger of inducing undue inflammation in the joint, the entrance of air being prevented, which, and not the mere section of the capsule and synovial membrane, constitutes the chief risk. Should there be more than one loose cartilage, the operation must be repeated, but not until any inflammation induced by the former one has been subdued. In this way I have successfully removed in succession five loose cartilages from one knee. ii li I. -f. ,1 » j ;i I ; t j !