DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 570 junction witli the iodine-inunctions ; though it is not so easy to apply tliis means, and no considerable degree of it can be borne, bn account of the increased difliculty of respiration that is thus occasioned. In fact, the com- pression exercised upon the tumour by the sterno-mastoid muscles in some of these cases is so considerable that it becomes necessary to di\’ide its tendon subcutaneously, in order to relieve the trachea from the constriction to wliich it is subjected. When the tumour is chiefly cystic, the fluid contents may be drawn oft by tapping, and an endeavour may be made to cause the cysts to close by inducing inflammation in them by the injection of tincture of iodine. The fluid that flows from the cyst is often darkly stained with blood, and occasionally pure blood may escape in considerable quantities from the puncture. MoreU Mackenzie advises the injection of the cyst with per- chloride of iron to check the flow of blood that often takes place from the cyst wall. He recommends that the cyst be tapped with a trochar and cannula ; after the fluid has escaped a solution of perchloride of iron (5ij. to 5j. of water) is injected ; the cannula is then plugged and left in till suppura- tion is established, after which it may be withdrawn and a di’ainage-tube substituted. When bronchocele is very large, and very chronic, its absorption cannot, I think, be expected to be brought about by these or any other means ; and the question then arises as to the propriety of having recourse to operative interference. The introduction of a seton across the tumour is occasionally attended by beneficial results. This operation, however, is not unaccom- panied by danger ; a patient in the neighbourhood of London, on whom it was being performed some years ago, lost his life by the entrance of air into a vein which was accidentally punctured at the root of the neck. Injection of Tincture of Iodine into the substance of the gland is recommended by Bilh’oth in cases of simple hypertrophy. In fibrous broncho- celes he does not advise it, as they are often permeated by veiy large blood- vessels. The iodine is injected by means of an ordinary hypodennic syringe, about ten minims being thrown in at a time. The operation may be repeated twice or three times a week, according to the effect. Injection of Perchloride of Iron by means of the syringe figured at p. 70, Vol. IL, might be of ser^dee in some cases of very vascular and pulsating bronchocele ; but it is not without the special danger of forming a plug in the circulation, and rapidly fatal embolism may follow its use. A fatal accident of this kind has in fact been recorded. In one instance of pulsating bronchocele in which I employed it, although much local inflamma- tion and deep-seated suppuration were induced by it, the patient was in the end materially benefited. Ligature of the Thyroid Arteries has been practised by some Surgeons, with, it is stated, a certain degree of success. The difficulties and danger of the operation, the uncertainty of its results, and the readiness with which the arterial supply would be forwarded to the tumour from other sources, have caused it to be but little resorted to by Surgeons of the i)resent day. In one case of pulsating bronchocele in which I had recomse to this treatment, no benefit resulted from it. Excision of the Thyroid Body.—Roux, Warren, Greene, and othei’s, have successfully extirpated large brouchoceles, but these operations must be looked upon as altogether the exception in the treatment of the disease ; and instances are certainly not often met with in this country in which a Simgeon