298 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. questriiin have been a long one, and have involved the greater part of the shaft of the bone, it may happen that the new case has not sufficient strength to maintain the limb of its proper length and shape, and that it will bend oi- break under the action of the forces and weight to which it is subjected. In order to prevent this accident, it will be necessary to put it up in light splints, or in a starched bandage. After the removal of the dead bone, the sinuses will speedily close, and the limb eventually regain its normal size and shape. Amputation.—If the necrosed bone be so situated that it cannot be removed, occupying too great an extent and continuing to be firmly fixed; and if at the same time the patient’s health have been worn down by constant discharge, and symptoms of hectic come on ; or if the limb have generally been greatly disorganised by the morbid processes going on in it, recourse must be had to amputation as a last resource. It is especially in the lower third of the thigh- bone that these severe forms of necrosis occur, necessitating amputation of the limb. When necrosis affects the flat posterior surface of this bone above the condyles, a special source of danger occurs in the possibility of the sequestrum causing ulceration or woimd of the popliteal artery. In cases of this kind, suddenly fatal hmmorrhage might occur. Should the haemorrhage, though abundant, not be fatal, what course should the Surgeon adopt in such cases ? Should he attempt to ligature the vessel, or should he amputate the limb ? The line of practice must, I think, be determined by the condition of the limb itself and by the state of the patient’s health. If these be both tolerably good, the limb not too much disorganized, and the powers of the system not too much reduced by hectic, an attempt might be made, by slitting up the sinuses, to expose and secure the popliteal artery at the seat of injury in it, and, by liga- turing it, to save life and limb. But should this attempt fail, as I have known happen, or should it not be thought prudent to make it, owing to the low state of the patient’s strength, or the disorganized condition of the limb, amputation must be done without delay. As an idiopathic disease, necrosis of the tibia requiring amputation is rarely met with; but when it is the result of bad com- pound fractures, or of other serious injuries, removal of the limb may become imperative. In acute necrosis of the lower end of the thigh, or of the shaft of the tibia involving the contiguous joints, and attended by deep and extensive abscess of the limb, amiDutation is imperative. Resection of the whole of the necrosed bone may be advantageously per- formed in such cases as those of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, or in those of the forearm or leg, where sufficient stability of limb is secured by the remaining bone or bones to leave an useful member. The diseased bone may be thus removed in necrosis of the ungual phalanx occurring from whitlow, where, by the excision of the dead bone, the end of the finger may be preserved; also in necrosis of some of the metatarsal and tarsal bones, or those of the fore- arm, the inferior maxilla, and the fibula. Subperiosteal resection in cases of acute necrosis has been already alluded to (p. 282). The remarks that I have hitherto made apply chiefly to necrosis of the long bones of the extremities. As there are a few special considerations connected with necrosis of the flat bones, we will now consider these briefly. Necrosis of the Sternum, Scapula, or Bones of the Pelvis, is an ex- cessively tedious process, there being but very little tendency to the formation of a line of separation and to the detachment of the sequestrum, wliich will continue bare, rough, and adherent for m.any yearn. Should it be so situated