I 502 DEFORMITIES. spasm of both sterno-mastoids the head is tlirown forwards, the muscles ju’o- jecting in groat relief. In these cases, tlie disease will usually be found to have had a rheumatic origin. Deformity in this situation may occur also from diseased cervical vertebrm, or from the traction of the cicatri.x of a burn. The conditions here, however, are peculiar, depending upon causes that are irrespective of the state of the muscles, which are not tense, and may thus readily be distinguished from the true form of the disease produced by the causes above mentioned. Treatment.—The treatment of torticollis arising from pennanent shortening of one of the sterno-mastoids, which is the common form of the affection, may best be conducted by dividing the inferior attachment of the muscle, and thus allowing the head to regain its proper position. The division of the muscle is a somewhat delicate operation, on account of the important structures that lie immediately behind it. By making the incision, however, through it, from behind forwards, close to the sternum and along the clavicle, there can, if ordinary care be employed, be little risk of doing any damage, as these bones carry the lower attachment of the muscle forwards, and separate it from sub- jacent parts. The tension also, into which it is thrown by its spasm, draws it away from the carotid sheath. In several instances in which I have had occasion to perform this operation, no difficulty whatever has been experienced in dividing the sternal attachment of the muscle, which is usually very tense and prominent, by making a puncture on the inner side of the tendon, pushing a narrow director behind the muscle, drawing the latter forwards, and then passing an ordinary tenotome behind the tendon, with its flat side towards it, just in front of the upper margin of the sternum, and cutting forwards, whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. In dividing the clavicular insertion, the safest plan, I think, consists in making a puncture with a scalpel upon and down to the clavicle in the cellular space which lies between the two attachments of the muscle, and then pushing a long, blunt-pointed, narrow-bladed tenotome beneath the insertion of the muscle, dividing this in a direction forwards. In this situation also the director may be used, unless the parts are very tense. Care must be taken of the external jugular vein at the outer edge of the muscle. Should this vessel run inconveniently close to the edge, the safer plan is to begin the operation from the outer side, making the first puncture here. After division of the tendon, the deep fascia of the neck will sometimes be found stretching across in firm and tense bands ; these, however, had better not be interfered with, as they will yield in time, and much risk of injuring the subclavian and carotid vessels would attend any attempt at their division. Nor should the edge of the knife ever be turned inwards. Care must be taken to divide the muscle completely, but not to carry the incision too freely or deeply. I have heard of more than one case in which, from want of due precaution, abundant hmmorrhage occurred, and of three in which fatal results followed the operation. After the operation, the position of the head must be gradually rectified by proper apparatus. The best instrument for this purpose is the one invented by Bigg, and here figured (Fig- 621). It consists of a pelvic band, a vertebral stem, and arm-pieces, the object of which is to secure a firm basis of support to the neck-lever (1), and the maxillary lever (2). The neck-lever passes round the head, and takes its bearing against the temporal boue on the side 1 L. 4 ' ‘ II r‘>, 1(1 >1 1 ( s >! )'