669 VARIETIES OF ACUTE LARYNGITIS. which it arises, and the condition of constitution in which it occurs : in one, the true Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis, the inflainination is seated chiefly in the mucous membrane; in the other, the (Edematous Laryngitis, the aftection extends to the submucous areolar tissue, within and around the larynx. In all inflammatory affections of the larynx, whether acute or chronic, there is danger to life ; the rima glottidis, that narrow chink through which all the air destined for resjDiration must enter, becomes readily occluded, and asphyxia consequently results. This may happen either by the swelling of loose folds of mucous membrane about the upper opening of the glottis ; from mem- branous exudation upon the vocal cords ; or by the occurrence of spasm in the larynx. Indeed, there is usually more or less spasm conjoined with all the acute inflammatory affections of this part of the air-tube ; and this spasm, being superadded to already existing mechanical occlusion, commonly proves fatal. These laryngeal spasms do not at first recur oftener than at intervals of half an hour or an hour ; but as the disease advances they become more frequent, and in any one of them the patient may be carried off. It is of importance to bear in mind that death may occur in these cases, although a considerable portion of the cavity of the larynx continue fi’ee. Thus Cheyne states that there are always in croup at least three-eighths of the glottis open for the transmission of air ; and that death must consequently result from some cause other than mere mechanical obstruction. This freedom from per- manent occlusion commonly occui’s in cases of laryngitis ; and the immediate ^ cause of death in the majority of instances appears to be spasm, conjoined with ^ defective arcerialization of the blood, which causes congestion of the lungs and convulsions. Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis may arise fr'om exposure to cold, from 1^1 violent strains of the vocal apparatus, or from extension of catarrh fr’om the nose or pharynx. It is most common in adult males, but may occur in children. One attack predisposes to another. The mucous membrane only l)eing affected, the sijmptoms are not indicative of such eaily and intense interference with respiration as is met with in the oedematous form of the disease. These are dryness of the throat and hoarseness, with pain varying Sfrom mere tickling to a severe sense of constriction. Occasionally there are pain and tenderness on pressing upon the larynx, more especially about the poraum Adami. The voice is at first harsh and rough, then stridulous, and t finally may be completely lost; there may be some pain and difficulty in deglutition. In simple catarrhal laryngitis there is rarely any serious dyspnoea or spasm, but in childi’on there may be considerable difficulty in respiration, especially if the glottis l)ecomes covered with dried mucus during sleep. There is expectoration of frothy mucus, sometimes tinged with blood, and the act of coughing is accompanied by considerable pain. With the laryngoscope the intensely injected state of the mucous membrane of the larynx can be seen ; l)ut this is not accomplislied without difficulty, partly from the irritability of the fauces, and partly from tlie large amount of tenacious mucus which usually surrounds the glottis. In very severe cases the inflammation may extend to the submucous tissue, and be accompanied by exudation into the loose areolar •tissue, and the symptoms then gi’adually merge into those of the oedematous form of laryngitis to be presently described. Trealmmt.—The patient should be placed in a warm atmosphere, which