624 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. may be said to have been introduced by lloux ; for altliough several attem])ts at tlie cure of this deformity had been made by Surgeons Ijefoi'C liis time, yet he was the first to establish Staphyloraphy as a distinct operation. Many modifications of Roux’s plan have been practised by Von Oriife, Wan-en, Dieffeubach, Liston, and others, in order to render it more easy of execution, and certain in its results, and especially by making incisions through tlie palate so as to take off the traction on the sutures ; but to Fergusson Avas due the merit of introducing a ncAV principle of treatment in the operation—viz., the application of myotomy to it, thus paralysing the movements of the muscles of the palate. Fergusson was of opinion that the great cause of failure in these operations was the mobility of the parts, and the traction exercised by the muscles, principally the leA^ator palati and the palato-pharyngeus, on the line of union ; in order to obviate this, he conceived the idea of dividing these muscles. Before Fergusson laid doAvn the principles of this operation, it is true that various cuts had been made in the palate by difierent Surgeons, with the view of taking off the tension after the sutures were tied. Thus Dieffeiibach, Pancoast, Liston, and Sedillot, all recommend that the traction on the stitches should be lessened by longitudinal incisions in the velum pendulum palati. Mettauer practised several small incisions for this purpose ; and IMason Warren divided the anterior pillar of the fauces and the attachments of the palate to the posterior pillar, coming nearer than any previous operator to Fergusson’s method. These operations, however, were done almost at haphazard, and in an empirical Avay, without the recognition of any distinct principle being involved in them. Operation.—The patient is placed in the recumbent- position, the Surgeon standing on his right side. The gag is then inserted, and chloroform adminis- tered, or if the patient be nervous the gag may be inserted when anaesthesia is in- duced. The gag represented in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 719) is a modification of T. Smith’s, invented by Wood. It can be adjusted to fit any patient by more or less widely separating the two halves. In the operation as performed by Fergusson, there are four distinct stages. 1. The muscles of the palate are divided, bypassing a curved lancet-ended knife through the fissure behind the velum, midway between, its attachment to the hard jDalate and the free margin, and about half-way between the velum and the end of the Eustachian tube. By cutting deeply with the point of the knife in this situation, the levator palati is divided. The uvula is then seized and draAvn forwards, so as to put the posterior pillar of the fauces on the stretch, Avhich is to be snipped across, so as to diAude the palato-pharyngeus. 1 he anterior pillar, the palato-glossus, may then be notched m a similar way. 2. The next step in the operation consists in parwg the edges^ of the fissure from almve doivnwards, by means of a sharp-pointed bistoury. Ibis is best done b\ seizing the lower end of the UA;ulti, putting it on the stretch, and cutting fiist on one side and then on the other, leaving the angle of union to be aftei'AAards ! II II I I I 1 i I mrnmmmim