27 MUSCULAR TIG, OR HISTRIONIC SPASM. or the inferior dental in the canal, should he reserved for very extreme cases in which all milder proceedings have failed. Wood, of New York has suc- cessfully divided the superior-maxillary nerve near the foramen rotundmn. In one case of his which I have seen, a complete cure Avas effected; the patient, a healthy man, being entirely free from the neuralgia one year and a half after the operation. There is one form of neuralgia of the dental nerves that is so severe and so pei-sistent in its general duration, and so paroxysmal in its attacks, that it constitutes a true Tic. This neuralgia may affect either jaw. I have most frequently met Avith it in the lower, and more commonly in women than in men. It occurs in people AA'ho have lost teeth ; and the pain which is excessively acute and paroxysmal, commences in and darts from the contracted alveoli and the condensed and indurated gum covering them. It appears to be owing to the compression of the terminal branches of the dental nerves by the contrac- tion upon them of the empty alveoli. Taking this AueAV of the pathology of this form of neuralgia, I have treated it by the removal of a portion of the indurated alveolar border and gum. Some years ago I did this in a patient of Dunn’s, remoAung a Y-shaped piece of the bone by means of a Hey’s saw ; and more recently, I have in addition clipped away the bone by means of cutting pliers. Gross, who has directed attention to this form of neuralgia, uses the pliers only for the removal of the affected bone. In any case it is necessary to cut into, but not through, the body of the bone. By this inci- sion, the dental canal may be opened in the body of the bone, and the nerve destroyed by means of the galvanic cautery. MUSOULAB TIC. Muscular tic of the face or histrionic spasm ” consists of almost constant tAvitching of the muscles of the face, sometimes so severe as to interfere with sleep, and always causing most serious annoyance and discomfort to the patient. During the last feAV years, the facial nerve has been stretched for relief of this affection in several cases. Godlee has collected thirteen, including two of his OAvn. Of the 13 cases, 6 were unrelieved, the spasm returning as soon as the paralysis caused by the operation passed off; and in 5 the spasms returned, but Avith less severity ; in one only, under the [care of Southam, Avas the cure permanent. One patient was lost sight of. The operation is per- formed by making a slightly curved incision immediately behind the ear, reaching from the root of the mastoid process to nearly the level of the angle of the JaAV. The anterior border of the process and the edge of the tendon of insertion of the sterno-mastoid are carefully cleaned, and the parotid tm’ued forAvards. The upper border of the digastric is next found, crossing the wound nearly transversely. The nerve is parallel to this, and according to Godlee it Avill be found emerging from under the middle of that part'of the mastoid process Avhich is exposed in the Avound. After the digastric is ex- posed, the dissection must be carried out Avith a director and forceps as the deep parts of the AVOund approach the internal jugular vein. Wheu the nerve is found and cleaned, it must be firmly stretched with tAvo blunt hooks. Complete paralysis of the face should result if sufficient force is used. In clonic torticollis the spinal accessory nerve has been divided in one case by Tilleaux, and stretched by Nicoladoni, at its entrance into the steruo-