INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. 272 subjects there is clanger of the process becoming intensified in parts of the bone, and tlms leading to necrosis or caries with chi-onic suppuration. Treatmen'L’.—In chronic osteitis and periostitis, when the bone has become thickened and enlarged, but little can be done in the way of cure. Tlie ad- , ministration of iodide of potassium with the occasional application of blisters will however do much to arrest the progress of the disease and relieve pain. Should these means fail in giving relief, and the pain continue of an excessively \ distressing and persistent character, I have for many years past practised the j following operation of linear osteotomy. An incision about three inches long 1 is made dii-ectly down on the chronically inflamed and indurated bone, being carried through the periosteum, so that the scalpel grates upon the bone, ] By means of a Hey’s saw this cut is extended into the substance of the bone / as far as the medullary canal, or deeply into its cancellous tissue. Some bleed- \ ing occurs, but it can always be arrested by position and pressure. The wound » is then closed. Nothing relieves the tensive pain so effectually as this, and n nothing stops so decidedly the tendency to secondary mischief, whether in i the form of caries or of abscess. In this way tension is taken off; and the pain, which appears to be dependent on the compression of inflamed bone by ^ its own condensed structure, is at once relieved. “ Linear osteotomy ” is an i operation especially applicable to osseous nodes of the long bones, or to chronic i| osteitis of the articular ends of the tibia, and is a far less severe mode of treat- -i ment than trephining the bone, which has occasionally been adopted in such i| cases ; while it is equally efiicacious. After a time, when the progress of the disease ceases, the enlarged bone does not give rise to any very serious incon- -j venience, except such perhaps as may be occasioned by its bulk. | OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. J In 1876 Sir James Paget read a paper before the Royal Medical and Chi- rurgical Society of London on five cases of a general disease of the bones to : which he gave the name of osteitis deformans. The most marked features of the disease are the following. It begins after middle life, and runs an ex- •: tremely slow course, lasting even as long as twenty years without affecting the general health to any appreciable degree. “ The disease affects most fre- quently the long bones of the lower extremities and the skull, and is usually sym- metrical. The bones enlarge and soften, and those bearing weight yield and become unnaturally curved. The spine may sink and seem to shorten with greatly increased dorsal and lumbar curves ; the pehus may become wide ; the necks of the femora may become nearly horizontal, but the limbs, however ' misshapen, remain strong, and fit to support the trunk.” The skull may j become enormously thickened, yet this never gives rise to any signs of pressure 1 on the brain. The disease is accompanied by obscure pains, not especially \ nocturnal. It has no connection with syphilis, gout, or rhemnatism. In 1 three out of the five cases recorded, sarcomata of bone appeared late in life. , ; The bones examined after death show changes evidently of an inflammatory j; character. The skull is uniformly thickened, but in the long bones the | ■ compact tissue is chiefly affected. The thin layer of compact bone on the j articular surface is thickened and encroaches on the cancellous tissue, flbe j thickened bone is soft and spongy, its substance is very vascular, and its j , surface is grooved with lines for the vessels of the periosteum. Neither the ; 1 periosteum nor the medulla present any marked change. j ;