548 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK, persons will rapidly wear out the powers of life by interference with breathing- and sleep, I believe that by attention to propei- constitutional and by perseverance in other and milder local treatment plugging of the posterior narcs may commonly be avoided. When absolutely recpiired it is best done by carrying a long piece of strong whip-cord along the floor of the nose through the posterior nares into the pharynx, by means of Bellocq’s sound (Fig. On/), or, if this be not at hand, by threading the cord through an elastic catheter, and carrying this into the pharynx, then seizing the cord as it appears behind the soft palate, and drawing it forwards into the mouth, at the same time that the catheter is taken out of the nostril. In this way the string will pass through the nose, round the back of the soft palate, into and then out of the mouth (Fig. 658). To the centre of the piece of string that hangs out betAveen the lips, a plug of lint, about the size of the flrst joint of the thumb, or better still, a piece of compressed sponge, should he firmly tied ; this is then drawn up into the posterior nares by pulling on the end of the ligature that hangs from the nose, being guided in its passage behind the Fig. 658.—Diagram of Plugging the Nostril by means of .• Bellocq’s Sound. palate by the fingers introduced into the month. AVhen the bleeding has ceased, it may readily be withdrawn by means of the string that hangs out of the mouth. As the epistaxis is very apt to recur, it is a wise precaution, when the plug is removed from behind the palate, to leave a loop of string in the nose and mouth, which may be knotted and fixed by a slip of plaster behind the ear. In this way the plug may, if occasion occur, be readily replaced without the necessity of re-introducing the sound or catheter through the nose, which is often a troublesome operation. TUMOURS OP THE NASAL FOSS.®. Polypus.—Tumours of very different structures and composition are met with in the nostrils : and to all of these which possess the common characters of being pendulous and blocking up these passages, the term Polypus is given. Thus Surgeons commonly .speak of the Benign^ the Soft, the Gelatinous, or