NEURALGIA^SYMPTOMS—TREA TMENT. 357 NEURALGIA OF JOINTS. Fain of a severe character is often experienced in or around a joint, closely - siiniilating, bnt not dependent upon, inflammation or other structural disease. Tin’s pain, which is purely neuralgic, may have its origin either in some local irritation of a nerve leading to the sensitive part, or in constitutional disorder of a hysterical character. It is this class of cases, occurring in young women who are either the subjects of hysteria, or are of a highly nervous temperament, that should especially be considered as Neuralgia of the Joints, to which the attention of the profession has been directed principally by the labours of • Sir B. Brodie. Symptoms.—It is generally found that the hip, knee, ankle, or shoulder is the joint affected—the hip and the knee more especially. The neuralgia is usually localized in a particular joint by some slight injury that the part has ■ sustained. But it is important to observe that in these cases the pain often does not develop for some days, or even weeks, after the injury that is the alleged cause of it. Severe pain in the joint is complained of ; and the limb is rendered comparatively useless, often with a good deal of distortion or contraction. On examination, it Avill be found that the pain, which is commonly very severe, is superficial and cutaneous, not existing in the interior of the articulation, nor increased by pressure of the articular surfaces against one another ; and that it is not strictly confined to the joint, but radiates for • some distance around it. This pain is often intermittent in its character, and •is frequently associated with neuralgia elsewhere, as in the spine; and not unfrequently with uterine imtation or disease. The patient sometimes acquires the trick of producing loud snappings of some muscle or tendon which are distinctly audible all over the room whenever she Avalks or moves. At the same time, it will be observed that all the signs that ought to accom- pany a severe attack of inflammation in a joint, such as would be attended by a corresponding amount of pain, are absent; there being no painful startings of the limb at night, no heat, redness, or SAvelling of it, nor consti- tutional fever and irritation ; and the suffering being increased by causes, nich as mental and emotional disturbance, that do not influence organic disease. \Attention to these various circumstances will usually enable the Surgeon to iliagnose the nature of the attack without much difficulty ; the only cases in I which he will really experience any, being those in which the tissues around :he joint have been thickened, indurated, and altered in their characters by die application of counter-irritants ; or by some slight articular disease naving at some time e.xisted, but having been cured. Causes.—The neundgia is often referable to the irritation of some particular nerve, either at its origin or in its course. This is particularly the case with neuralgia of the hip and knee, Avhich will often be found to be dependent on irritation of the obturator nerve, owing to intrapelvic disease. In one :^ase of secondary abdominal cancer under my care, the patient was seized with the most intense pain in the right hip and knee, so as to lead to the •ULspicion that these joints Avere diseased. On examination after death, it Avas found that the pain resulted from the implication of the obturator nei’A'e in a mass of intrapelvic cancer, the joints themselves being perfectly sound. Theat.aif.nt.—The treatment must be constitutional, directed especially to 'e-e.stablish a healthy condition of the uterine organs. If there be amenorrhcea