DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 444 towards tlic elevated side of the pelvis, and in order to keep the body straight, there is a compensating curve in the opposite direction higher up. At the same time the fixed flexion of the thigh is compensated for by an antero-pos- terior curvature of the lower spine with the concavity forwards, or as it is termed lordosis. This conceals the flexion of the hip-joint, so that the two limbs may lie side by side in bed apparently straight, when in reality the diseased hip is flexed to a considerable angle. When the limbs are in this position, if the hand be passed under the lumbar spine, it will be found to be aiched forwards, not touching the bed. In order to estimate the amount of flexion, the plan recommended by H. 0. Thomas is the best. As the patient lies on his back, the sound limb should be flexed to the full extent at the hip and knee, and pressed upon firmly till the lumbar spine becomes straight, and the hand can no longer be passed between it and the bed, the thigh of the affected limb will then be raised from the bed, and the true angle of flexion becomes apparent. The degree of adduction or abduction is best recognized by putting a tape across from one anterior superior spine to the other, when the angles formed by the limbs with this line are at once clearly seen. The alterations in length are recognized by measurement from the anterior superior spine to the inner condyle of the femur or the inner malleolus, the limbs being placed as accurately as possible in the same position on the two sides. If greater accuracy is required, the plan described in the chapter on Fractures (Vol. I., p. 597) may be adopted. Theoretically real lengthening may occur in consequence of effusion into the joint, but practically the amount so caused is too small to be recognized by measurement. True shortening may ; arise from destruction of the head of the bone, dislocation, and want of growth. In old cases it is well to measure the tibia separately, and to compare it with the sound limb. In this way the proportion of shortening due to general want of growth of the limb may be estimated roughly. 3. Limitation of movement is a constant symptom in all forms of hip- disease. The degree of limitation of flexion is ascertained by grasping the side j of the pelvis with one hand, while the thigh is slowly raised from the bed with ; the other. In this way it is easily ascertained how much of the apparent flexion ; j is due to movement of the pelvis and lumbar spine, and how much to true ■ ‘ movement in the joint. The degree of possible extension is recognized by the method of ascertaining the angle of flexion recommended by H. 0. Thomas. j To ascertain the limitation of abduction or adduction, a tape may be passed ; across the pelvis from one anterior spine to the other, and another tape may | be held at right angles to this to indicate the normal position of the limb when • straight; the limb may then be gently moved from side to side, and the degree 1 of mobility noted. In estimating the possible amount of rotation, the hip and knee must be flexed, and the condyles of the femur grasped and rotated with j one hand, while the j)elvis is steadied with the other. It may be taken as a | safe rule, that if flexion, rotation outwards, and abduction, can be carried to 1 such a degree as to jflace the limb in the attitude assumed by a tailor when I sitting cross-legged, there is no disease of the hip. This position puts the | round ligament firmly on the stretch, and if the head of the femur is diseased, | would cause considerable pain. j 4. Suppuration is not a necessary consequence of inflammation of the hip- I joint, though in strumous subjects it more commonly occurs than not. e j often see the arthritic variety run its course without the formation of pus, I