COMPARISOX OF ME DIAS AND LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 979 Jl langers of the liiteml operation are : 1, the difticulty in some cases of entering r l ;he bladder ; 2, luemorrhage ; the risk of wounding thebnlb ; 4, of wonnd- ng the rectum ; 0, too extensive an incision in the prostate, and opening iij) he pelvic fascia ; (5, the difficulty in extracting the stone. 1. General Ease and Simplicity of the Operation.—There is no doubt hat the Surgeon will be more skilful in that operation which he has more often ■ oerformed : but, so far as ease and simplicity are concerned, there is no great litference between them. In the lateral operation there is very seldom any I lifficulty in entering the bladder, though Surgeons have sometimes been foiled i n this ; but Surgeons of the greatest skill have also had great difficulty in ntering the bladder in the median operation. The bladder tends to be ^ 'Ushed upwards and backwards before the finger, especially in boys, in Avhom i lie prostate is not developed ; and, unless the neck of the bladder be well I jHiiied, there apjxjars to be gveat danger of tearing across the membranous ;*art of the urethra, and of pushing backwards the separated bladder. In boys, idle parts are so very small and undeveloped, and the space to work in is so very naiTow, that an ordinary finger can only Avith great difficulty be got clihrough the neck of the bladder unless this have been freely incised. But, by fi oing this, Ave depart entirely from the guiding principle laid down by the ; dA'ocates of the median operation, viz., dilatation and not incision. So far as idcility of entering the bladder is concerned, the tAVO operations are probably rn a par in the adult: but in the boy the result of recent experience would how that the difficulties in this respect are frir greater in the median than in ue lateral ; so great, in fact, that the operation should never be performed. 2. Hasmorrhage.—In this respect, the median operation has decidedly the idA'antage. If the incision be made in the middle line, without wounding the iiilb, although there may be tolerably fr’ee bleeding at the time, yet there is no “essel that can frirnish dangerous consecutive luemorrhage ; Avhilst in the lateral peration there are the dangers of arterial and of profuse venous hmmorrhage, i le knife coming into close relation Avith the artery of the bulb and others of Dme size. If the object Avere, therefore, simply to save blood, the median is ) far better than the lateral. But, after all, it must in fairness be said iiat the danger of excessive hjemorrhage in the lateral operation is small. ith care, it AA'ill rarely happen that the patient loses a dangerous amount of ■ ood. 3. Wound of the Bulb.—This may occur in both, but is more difficult to mid, and indeed is \Gvy likely to happen, in the median, as the bulb some- vnes so overlaps the membranous part of the urethra, that it is difficult not cut it; Avhilst in the lateral operation, by cutting Ioav down, and entering e grooAm of the staff Avell back, and from beloAv u])wards, this may usually ; avoided. It is true-that division of the bulb in the mesial line seldom A'es rise to much hmmon-hage ; but cases have occurred to my knoAvledge, oiigh not in my practice, in Avhich patients haAm died frmm this cause cter perineal section, the blood regurgitating into the bladder, and filling at viscus. • 4. Wound of the Rectum.—This gut is not in much danger in the lateral •eration, indess it be distended. In the median, on the other hand, the ctura is in considerable danger. If this operation lie pcrfoimed on the dead 'dy, it Avill be found that the back of the bistoury comes very, I may say icomfortably, close to the finger in the rectum ; and if another finger be 3 u 2 ! £.