MEXINGOGELE—ENCEPIIALOCELE—HYDROCEPHALUS. 535 removal of the j>rowtli, but this is accompanied by considerable danger, not only on account of the perforation of the skull and implication of the dura mater, but from their extreme vascularity. In a case of this kind, which 1 had an opportunity of seeing many years ago, the growth was successfully removed by B. Phillips. Secondary sarcomata and carcinomata are also occasionally met with in the bones of the skull. In a case recorded by Morris a few years ago, a large jiulsatiug tumour of the skull was found to present the structure of the ; th}Toid gland, and was apparently secondary to an enlargement of that body. ? Three or four similar cases have been recorded by othei’ Surgeons. Hernia Cerebri, arising from wound or ulceration of the dura mater, has : been already described (Yol. I., p. oSG). ! Congenital Hernia of the Membranes of the Brain is sometimes met with in the form of Meningocele or of Encephalocele. In the former, ' the protruded sac is filled with fluid: in the latter, it contains also cerebral substance. The diagnosis between these two conditions is generally difficult; and is of little practical importance. The disease is usually speedily fatal. Z. Laurence finds that, of 39 instances in which it occurred, 21 were males, 18 females; that the protrusion may vary from the size of a pea to that of a tumour exceeding the child’s head; and that the occiput is its chief seat—of 79 cases, 53 being in this situation. The hernia may occur at several other points. It has been seen projecting through the anterior fontanelle. In this situation it has most frequently undergone spontaneous cure as the fontanelle closed. Numerous cases have been recorded in which it projected through a deficiency in the region of the cribriform plate into the nasal fossm, or forwards into the face at the root of the nose, the nasal process and the neighbouring parts of the frontal bone being deficient. Lichtenburg has recorded a case in which it projected from the base of the skull into the pharynx. In these uncommon situations, the swelling may be mistaken for a polypus. In six of the cases collected by Z. Laurence, the subjects of this malformation reached an adult age; in all the remaining cases they died early, or were still-born. Surgery offers little in these cases; though in one instance Paget used injection of iodine with success; and in another, where sloughing of a portion of the tumour was taking place, Annandale applied a ligature to the peduncle, and I'emoved the tiunour, the child recovering completely in spite of an attack of measles. In another case, the portion of brain was sliced ofi’, the patient surviving. Tapping the Head.—This operation has occasionally been performed in chronic hydrocephalus, but so far without much benefit. It is sometimes conjoined with pressure by means of an elastic bandage. It is applicable only to those cases in which, from the early age of the child, or the imperfect ossification of the distended skull, it is possible to compress the head by a moderate degree of pressure. The operation is best performed by means of the aspirator. A fine needle may be pushed through the anterior fontanelle or the coronal suture, avoiding the middle line for fear of wounding the longitudinal sinus. The instrument should bo directed away from the middle line so as to penetrate the lateral ventricle, and thus to evacuate a portion of the contained senim. There should be no vacuum in the needle when it is introduced, but when it has ])cnetrated deeply enough to reach the ventricle, the piston of the aspirator may lx; slowly raised, so as to withdraw the fluid gradually, and not