OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA—TREATMENT. 227 iiud Hulke’s case, it was applied midway between the xiphoid cartilage and the umbilicus, immediatelv above the tumour. That three out of the eight cases have terminated fatally shows, however, that the operation is by no means devoid of danger. In Pollock’s unsuccessful case the patient suflcred from luematiiria, and in Greenhow’s case albumen appeared in the urine after the last operation, thus showing serious interference with the circulation in the kidney. In ]\Iarshairs case the patient suffered from retention of urine for some days after one operation, jjrobably from some injury to the hypogastric plexus. In Bryant’s case the post mortem examination showed bruising of the mesentery and intestine and peritonitis, and “the tissues about the compressed aorta were loaded with eftused blood.” In Paget’s case an abscess had formed in the mesentery, peritonitis had been set up, and the mesenteric artery was found to be compressed and flattened, and embolic clots were found in its branches. In Durham’s fatal case there were signs of bruising about the pan- creas, and the aneurism was found to affect the mesenteric artei’y. The time during which the pressure has been maintained has varied considerably. Mur- ray’s Ciise was cured by one application lasting five hours; Durham and Moxon’s in lOi hours; Greenhow and Hulke’s, by three applications lasting 55 minutes, I hours, alid 3 houi-s. In Marshall’s case distal pressure was applied without serious consequences, on one occasion for 18 hours, and on another for 19 hours. Vomiting has been found to be a troublesome comiflication in several cases. Of the successful cases, Murray’s is the only one in which the pulsation of the tumour ceased permanently immediately after the operation. In Green- how and Hulke’s case it did not Anally disappear till some days after the last application of the toui-niquet; and in Durham and Moxon’s, although it ceased at the time, it returned in a few hours, and persisted for a month before it finally disappeared. From the above cases, it will be seen that there is abundant evidence of the safety of the proximal operation, and sufficient probability of success to justify us in adopting it in eveiy favourable case. Further evidence is required before abandoning distal pressure as absolutely useless. In Bryant’s fatal case the sac was found to be filled with firm clot, which was considered to have been sufficient, had the patient lived, to have cured the aneurism. In ^larshall’s case the tumom’ was thought to be slightly more solid after the operations, but no permanent effect was produced. The distal operation, how- ever, does not seem a very hopeful one. The number and size of the branches coming off from the aorta at its upper part, and the frequency with which the cceliac axis and its large branches are implicated, are very unfavourable circum- stances for distal pressure. The anastomosis of the collateral vessels is, more- over, so small compared to the immense interference with the direct circulation, that the only effect of distal pressure must be for many hours greatly to increase the tension in the vessels above. In performing the operation of compression of the aorta under pro- longed anaesthesia, a few points require special attention. The patient should l>e fed well on the day before the operation. On the day of the operation he should receive fluid nourishment only, and the bowels should be well emptied by means of a copious enema. The tourniquet must be applied with the gi-eatest care immediately above the tumour, and with no more force than is absolutely necessary. If much force be required before the piilsjition in the femoral arteries is arrested, it is probable that the pad of the tourniquet is not in the right place, and various attempts must be made till