234 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. •I ill a case of {?uii-sliot injuiy, fclie patient dying of peritonitis and secondary haemorrhage on the thirteenth day. ^Fhe great American Hurgeon, Mott, was i the first who tied it for aneurism, the patient making a good recovery. If the ■ aneurism in tlie groin extend so iiigh tliat there is not sufficient S]jace for the | exposure and ligature of tlie external iliac artery, it becomes necessaiy to tie the : common trunk. J.his may be done by extending the incision that serves for ' the ligature of the external iliac upwards and slightly inwards towards the uni- ' bilicus, to an extent corresponding to the degree of obesity of the patient, so I that it assumes a somewhat semilunar form. If the operation is commenced with the intention of applying a ligature to the main trunk, it is of great im- portance in determining the length of the incision, and calculating the point at which the artery will be met with to remember the different hearings of the \ parts m the neighbourhood of the vessels, and the relative frequency ivith which \ the origin and termination of the artery correspond ivith certain fixed [joints ! that may readily be detected. ' The points of importance arc the relations of the vessels to the lumbar j vertebrm, to the crest of the ilium, and to the umbilicus. The ordinary place { of division of the abdominal aorta is on the body of the fourth lumbar ver- i tebra, or on the invertebral disk below it; according to Quain, this was the i case in three-fourths of the bodies he examined, or in 15C out of IDG. In re- gard to the relations between the situation of the bifurcation of the aorta and the crest of the ilium, we find it, according to the same anatomist, to have ranged in about four-fifths of the cases between half an inch above and below the level of the highest point of this part of the bone. IVith reference to the umbilicus, no definite rule can be laid down ; but it may be broadly stated that the bifurcation of the aorta is a little to its left. As a general rule, that given by Hargrave is perhaps sufficiently good for ordinary pur- poses. If a point be taken about half or three-quai’ters of an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus, and a line be drawn on each side from this i point to the centre of Poupart’s ligament, we obtain about the direction of the common and external iliac arteries. On dividing these hnes into three i equal parts, the upper third will correspond to the common trunk, and the i lower two-thirds to the external iliac, and the junction of the upper with the i middle third to the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. j The point of division of the common iliac arteiy is, in the majority of cases, i, opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation; and if it be not in this situation the ;) division will probably be lower down. The length of the vessel varies greatly; i; according to Quain, in five-sevenths of the cases it ranged between one-and-a- half and three inches. The artery lies at the brim of the pelvis. The veins on the two sides differ ’ in their relation to the arteries. The left vein lies to the inner side of the s left artery, and then i^asses beneath the right common ihac artery to join the C right vein in forming the vena cava inferior. On the right side the vein is at 1 first beneath and then to the outer side. The common iliac artery is crossed f by the ureter near its lower end. The incision to expose the common iliac extends from a point about one inch : \ external to and one inch above the middle of Poupart’s bgament in a curved 15 direction to another point about two inches above and the same distance ; Ji internal to the anterior superior iliac spine. The curve must be such that if j i prolonged the incision would reach a point about mid-way between the xiphoid , 1