1041 mAO.VOSI^ AA'^I) EE8CLTS OF ATONY. t }. lear and healthy urine, instead of ovarian fluid ; fortunately no bad effects i ollowed. This retention with dribbliiiij,’ occurs in consequence of the bladder, |i'S it rises out of the pelvis, elong-atino' its neck ; and as the body becomes bent ' orward over the pubes a sharp curve or ano'le is formed at the junction of the t''leck and body of the viscus, through whicli a small stream of urine continues o dribble away, and escapes rather by its own gravity than by any expulsive 'ffbrt on the part of the patient. —Retention from Atony can easily be diagnosed from retention rom Obstruction. In the former, on introducing the catheter when the jatieut is lying on his back, the instrument will not only readily enter, but the 'fine will simply flow out in a slow uniform stream, not being projected in a et by the contraction of the walls of the organ, but rising and falling in 'bedience to the respiratory movements, or to the contractions of the abdo- ninal muscles. In retention from obstruction, there will be experienced some j.lifficnlty in passing the instrument at some one point, either in the urethra or >rostate; and when once it is introduced into the bladder, the urine will escape ;n a fi*ee and far projected stream. Results.—The habitual retention of a small quantity of urine in an atonic )ladder which is incapable of discharging completely the whole of its contents )ccurs much more frequently than is suspected. The quantity thus retained nvill aiT from an ounce to half a pint: the patient believing that he has ;mptied his bladder. The existence of this residual urine is readily deteinnined )y telling the patient to try to empty his bladder. He thinlcs he has done so, )ut the introduction of a catheter will prove the existence of retained urine. This condition will be a source of serious inconvenience, and eventually of ilisease, to the patient. In consequence of the bladder never being completely I'^mptied, there will be frequent, sudden, and almost irresistible calls to pass li urine, so as to simulate irritability of the bladder. The retained urine becomes 5 ))ftensive, ammoniacal or fishy in odour, and mixed with mucus or muco-pus. iriie constituents of the urine become re-absorbed or are not excreted, derange he health, give rise to impaired nutrition, and, being eliminated by the skin, I irrritate it and occasion intractable forms of skin-disease. I have seen chronic II vczema of the most inveterate character produced in this Avay, and yield to treatment only on care being taken to keep the bladder clear and free from rf-’csidual urine. The effects of retained urine and of retention are not identical. In retained ..irine the general health suffers, the patient becomes slowly poisoned by the liability to get rid of an excretion. In retention the danger is more imme- diate and directly depeiident on the liability to secondary disease of the bladder ■ind kidneys. Subacute cystitis, followed by low fever, will come on as the {4^1'esult of the continued over-distension of the bladder. The symptoms are such i.s are described at p. 1)13 as being indicative of urinary fever. The patient t'luiffei-s fi'om chills and small rigors, followed by depression and low spirits. IFever of a typhoid tyjie comes on, witli brown tongue, occasional retchings, I mild delirium, and great prostration of strength. Tins condition occurring I in an aged man long suffering from atony of the bladder, with most probably i'iin unsound state of the kidneys secondaiy to this, is commonly fatal. It is ' thus that chronic retention from bladder-atony destroys life, not by ulceration ' "f the organ or by extravasation of urine, which does not occur in these cases as in other forms of more acute retention, von, ir. X