DIGITAL COMPRESSION—ESMARCITS BANDAGE. 145 ressure of the huger. In order to cany it out efficiently, tliere must be relays f assistants, each of whom compresses the vessel for about ten minutes at a me. The pressure should be applied in the way that is represented in Fig. 8, Yol. L, p. 41). The fatigue may be very materially lessened by placing a G ? • 8 lb. weight on the compressing finger. With such aid each assistant may |i uidily keep up the pressure for half an hour at a time. So soon as his fingeis ji jcome fatigued, but before he relaxes the pressure, another assistant com- I -esses the vessel ; and thus the circulation through it may be uninterruptedly ■1 .ntroUed. In this way aneurisms of the popliteal artery, in the orbit, at i le bend of the arm, and in the groin, have been successfully treated—the [I imour having in some instances become consolidated in a few hours. The ,j feet of digital compression, and the rapidity of cure, would be increased by the ‘plication of direct pressure to the tumour, or by manipulation and by the evious employment of proper constitutional means; it might be very advan- ii .geously conjoined with the treatment by flexion. But its great advantage tliems to be, that it is applicable to arteries, as those at the root of the neck, to ijfhich it might be difficult to apply any kind of compressor, and can be et; aployed generally when no apparatus is obtainable. Esmarch’s Elastic Bandage has been used with a certain amount of ccess in the treatment of external aneurisms. It was first employed in these ses by Staff-Surgeon Walter Eeid. Pearce Gould, who has investigated refully this method of treatment, has collected the details of 72 cases in {■ fleh it has been employed. Of these he finds that 35 were cured, in 30 / e treatment was unsuccessful, in 5 death i-esulted, and in the remaining 2 A 3 result was doubtful. ^ i The treatment has been applied chiefly to aneurisms of the popliteal artery, 1''t in a few cases it has been successfully employed in other situations. The j : jects in view are, flrst, to empty the whole limb of blood as far as possible, with X i exception of the sac and the part of the artery in immediate connection •;h it ; secondly, to keep the blood distending the sac at perfect rest until .igulation has taken place ; and thirdly, to protect the soft clot thus formed rm the influence of the arterial current until it has become sufficiently tough I solid to resist it, by compression of the trunk leading to the aneurism. : the case of a popliteal aneurism, the treatment is thus carried out. The Stic bandage is first applied from the toes to the ham with sufficient force ■ render the limb bloodless ; it is then carried loosely over the tumour, so as ; to empty the sac, and again applied firmly as high as the middle of thigh ; the elastic tourniquet is then put on with sufficient force to aiuest circulation completely. The bandage is better left on till the tourniquet ^•moved. The average time required for the application of the bandage is- ! hour and a half. The time during which the limb may be kept bloodless di h impunity is uncertain. Heath has kept the tourniquet on in one case for i t ee hours, and in another for throe and a quarter, without evil consequences ; I Banvell in one case retained it for five hours. The limb must be wrapped in ton wfK)l, and, if necessary', warm Ijottlcs, at a temperature of about 100° F., Y be applied. 'The pressure causes severe pain, which may require the of hypodermic injections of morphia ; but if the treatment is continued more than one hour, it is usually neccssaiy to administer an anmsthetic. ’ore the bandage is removed a Carte’s compressor may be applied, or ingements made for keeping up digital compression, and this must be VOf. TT