I SELECTION' OF OPERATION FOR STONE. 1015 {iiction of instriiineiits, however carefully and skilfully conducted ; the presence f frao;ments of calculus, should auy be left behind, and their tendency to mpactiou or entanglement in the urethra, necessarily dispose to inflammation, veu in the most favourable cases, and very readily excite it, if there be any mdency to it existing in the parts. If, however, the stone be small, or of loderate size, and friable ; the bladder healthy, and of good contractile ower ; tlm urethra capacious ; and the patient of sound constitution and uiet temperament, the stone, even under the old system of many sittings, is "ten broken up and the fragments expelled with comparatively little suffering. 1 fact, in such a combination of favom-able circumstances, lithotrity ought nquestionably to be preferred. If, however, the bladder be very irritable, or if the patient’s constitution be ;i excitable one, so that he does not bear well the introduction of instru- aents ; more particularly if it be found that this local and constitutional msitiveness, instead of being blunted by the methodical introduction of unds or bougies, is rather increased thereby ; and especially if the stone be t':‘ considerable size, lithotomy was formerly the only safe mode of treatment, it the present time, however, by the use of anaesthetics and the adoption ’ the operation at one sitting, even these difficulties may be safely overcome. The existence of organic disease about the urinary organs, constitutes the Neatest obstacle to lithotrity ; and, when extensive, must form a complete bar • the performance of that operation. It is not easy, however, to determine le amount of local disease that should thus be held to contra-indicate litho- ity. On this point the opinions of Surgeons differ much ; and it is particu- rly in the management of these cases that the advantages of tact and ■3xterity in the use of the crushing instruments, which habit alone can give, well exemplified. The condition of the kidneys merits special attention. If these organs be fiseased, as indicated by the presence of casts of tubes, or of a considerable aaiitity of albumen in the urine, or in any other way, the performance of a ■olonged operation in the bladder would be likely materially to increase the iischief in them, and consequently ought not to be undertaken. Organic sease of the kidneys is a more serious obstacle to lithotrity than to lithotomy, 11 account of the prolonged nature of the operation, and the greater liability I I sympiithetic or propagated irritation in these organs. It is not only by the f 'deration increasing the renal mischief that harm might result, but also in msequence of the tendency to diffuse inflammation of the bladder, prostate, id surrounding areolar planes, and to pyaemia, that always co-exists with Vlney disease. The conditions of the Vladdcr that interfere seriously with lithotrity are artly functional, partly organic. The functional derangements are of two :;r}- opposite kinds ; viz., a state of extreme irritability of the organ, and an imormal want of sensibility of it—a state of atony. The organic lesions con- st of hypertrophied, fasciculated, sacculated, and permanently contracted ^liiates of the viscus, which is then most commonly irritable as well. A chronically inflamed or irrifahlo state of the bladder, more particularly the organ be thickened and fasciculated, so that it will not bear the injec- on of a few ounces of tepid water, seriously interferes with the success of thotrity. A very irritable and sensitive bladder will not only be the scat of ;vere suffering on the introduction of instruments, lait may not 1)C able to I