289 VARIETIES OF NECROSIS. ing injuries of bone is a common cause, especially after amputations (p. 2G5), or should the same condition arise without injury (p. 2GG), the same result takes place. Chronic periostitis and osteitis, when the disease assumes the osteoplastic form, may gradually lead to necrosis by obliteration of the Haversian canals, (p. 2G4). Sometimes the death of bone results from the extension of inflammation to it from the neighbouring tissues, as in some cases of whitlow, or from tlie destruction of its periosteum by a neighbouring abscess. Syphilitic necrosis arises in three ways ; first, from superficial ulceration extending till it reaches the bone and destroys its periosteum ; secondly, by the formation of sub-periosteal gummata, which finally soften and thus cut ort‘ a piece of bone from its vascular supply ; and thirdly, by gradual oblitera- tion of the Haversian canals in chronic syphilitic osteitis. In all these forms the immediate cause of the death of the bone is the arrest of the flow of blood through it. In some cases necrosis occurs in old people without any evident.cause, being ; then apparently simply the result of old age. This I have seen occur in the lower ends of the humerus and tibia, giving rise to rapid and usually to fatal ! disorganization of the neighbouring joints, or to death from exhaustion after i profuse suppuration. This SmiU Necrosis may be looked upon as the counter- ! part in the bone of senile sloughing or gangrene in the soft parts, i Traumatic causes frequently give rise to necrosis. Thus the denudation of a bone, by stripping off of periosteum, may lead to its death; but, though the bone thus injured often loses its vitality, yet, if the membrane be replaced, i its life may be preserved, and even when the bone is exposed, adhesions may j take place between it and the neighbouring soft parts, or granulations may be I thrown out by its surface, which eventually form another periosteum. Necrosis frequently occurs as the result of the detachment and denudation of a portion of bone in cases of bad compound fracture : so also the application of certain irritants, as the fumes of phosi^horus, may occasion this disease, and hence it } has been found that, in lucifer-match manufactories, necrosis of the lower jaw I is a frequent consequence of the acrid fumes that are eliminated, gaining I access to the bone through carious teeth, and being applied to the exposed alveoli. Characters.—In whatever way it originates, necrosis may affect the outer laminse only of the bone, when it may be called lo&ripheral; or the innermost layers that surround the medullary canal may perish, and then it may be termed central; or the whole thickness of a shaft, or of the substance of a short bone, may lose its vitality, and it is then spoken of as total. The necrosed portion of bone, called the Sequestnun, presents peculiar characters, by which its nature may at once be recognized. It is of a dirty yellowish-white colour, and has a-dull opaque look, and, after exposure to the air, it gradually becomes of a deep brown or black tint; the margins are ragged, and more or less spiculated, and the free surface is tolerably smooth, but its attached surface is very irregular, rough, and uneven, presenting an eroded or worm-eaten appearance. This eroded appearance is very marked in sequestra that form in the interior of the terminal end of the femur in a thigh-stump after amputation, and is well illustrated by Fig. 28, where the lower smooth part is composed of the whole thickness of the bone, whilst the upper rough and spiculated portions consist of the central layers of bone separated from the outer layer, and hence their eroded external