692 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. difficulty may be experienced, owin^' to the elasticity of the sides of the incision ill the Avindpipc, in consequence of wliich one of them is apt to he doubled in under the end of the instrument. This may he avoided by introducing'- the sharp hook iu the manner described above, or by the use of Fuller’s bivalve tube introduced closed (Fig. 759), and then expanded by slipping a cannula into it (Fig. 7G0). If the rings of the trachea be very rigid and unyielding, the silver tube may most conveniently be introduced by exjiaiiding the incision by means of the trachea-forceps (Fig. 7G1), and then passing it between or under their blades. Some Surgeons prefer, instead of the scalpel, to open the trachea with cutting forceps, or with a trochar carrying a cannula in the shape of a trachea-tube, which is then left in the air-passage; these instruments, thougli ingenious and in some respects useful, do not appear to me to be so safe or easy of management, especially in children, as the scalpel and trachea-hook. Trachea-tubes should be of such a calibre throughout as to admit of respi- ration being carried on through them, without any effort on the part of the patient. Many of those that are to be met with in the instrument-makers’ shops, though very wide at the mouth, are far too narrow and contracted at the lower aperture to allow a free and unimpeded passage for the air of respiration, being made very conical in order to admit of easy introduction, and to occlude the opening in the windpipe completely, so as to prevent the entry of any blood by the side of the tube. The disadvantage attending this mode of construction may in a great degree be remedied by having a longitudinal opening like the large eye of a catheter cut in the side of the tube, immediately above the inferior aperture. One great difficulty which the Surgeon has to meet in cases of tracheotomy or laryngotomy, is to keep the tube from being clogged and obstructed by mucus. It is usually stated that the tube may be kept clear by the occasional introduction of a feather, of a piece of sponge fixed to a stick, or a bit of lint wrapped round a probe. In this way it is true that the frothy mucus that collects in the tube may be readily enough cleared away; but this simple means will in very many cases be found to be quite ineffectual in removing another kind of mucus that in certain conditions rapidly accumulates to a considerable extent within the tube. On examining a trachea-tube that has been worn for but a few hours, it will be found that its interior becomes gradually lined by a coating of dry, gummy, and very tenacious mucus, which is so firmly adherent to the metal that it must be detached by means of a pen-knife or pointed probe; or, what is better, by pouring boiling water tbrough the tube. This tenacious mucus, collecting in largest quantity at the inferior apertme, and at the curve of the trachea-tube, may block up its calibre to a very great and dangerous extent, whilst the mouth of the tube appears to be perfectly pervious and free. Though feathers and pieces of stick armed with sponge or lint have been introduced from time to time, these, passing over this dry mucus, are quite unable to detach it from the side of the tube, and bring away merely the sputa and more frothy mucus. Obre devised a very simple means to remedy this inconvenience. It consists in the trachea-tube being made of uniform calibre throughout, and having an interior tube accurately fitted to it, and projecting about one-eighth of an inch beyond the lower extremity of the outer tube. It is in the projection of the internal tube beyond the lower end of the external one that the great utility \