54 DISEASES OF VEINS. altered conditions of the blood which accompany septiccemia oi- mali^niant fevers. It is a very frequent occurrence Avhen the alfected vein leads from a wound, the discliarges of Avhich are in a septic state, or from an area affected with some infective inflammation, as in acute necrosis of bone. Softening most commonly takes place in white or mixed thrombi. It com- mences in the centre of the clot at the part furthest removed from the Avails of the A^ein. The clot if mixed becomes completely decolourized, and gi’adually breaks doAvn into a creamy fluid resembling pus in appearance. Microscopic examination, hoAvever, sIioaa's that it is not pure pus. In some cases it is composed merely of granular debris, no corpuscles of any kind being recog- nizable ; in others a certain number of pus cells may be mixed Avith the debris. These are Avhite corpuscles, which Avere cither contained in the clot and haA’e escaped disintegration, or have Avandered into it from the sun’ound- ing parts. In most cases in which softening takes place, micrococci ai’e found in abundance in the puriform fluid. The effects of the process of softening Avill be discussed immediately. Ccdcijication of a Thrombus is of rare occurrence. It occurs chiefly in the small clots that form in A^aricose veins in the pouches behind the A'alves. These calcified clots form small rounded bodies, var}ing in size from a mustard seed to a pea, and are known by the name of phleboliths. Effects of Thrombosis.—The first effect of thrombosis when not arising from obstruction is necessarily to arrest the floAV of blood through the A’ein. If a single superficial vein is obstructed, this may cause no marked symptoms ; but when the clot is situated in a main trunk, as in the femoral at the groin, great oedema of the parts below results. This is commonly seen in the so- called “ Avhite-leg,” which occiu's after labour. If the A'ein remains perma- nently obstructed, the oedema may subside after some weeks or months, the collateral A^eins gradually dilating, and the free return of blood being thus re- established. In other cases the oedema diminishes, but does not completely disappear, the Innb swelling considerably wdien in a dependent position. AVhen this occurs, the areolar tissue is indurated, the oedema becoming more “ solid ” as time goes on. The nutrition of the parts is interfered with, and chronic eczema or ulceration of the skin from slight causes is not uncommon. The relation of thrombosis to inflammation of the vein is a subject on which there has been considerable difference of opinion. Pathologists in the early part of the century regarded the presence of a thrombus in a vein, except when obviously due to mechanical causes arresting the flow of blood, as evidence of previous inflammation of the coats of the vessel. Some later pathologists on the other hand have maintained that when thrombosis is found associated with inflammation of the coats of a vein, the latter condition is alAvays secondary to the former. The truth probably lies between the tAvo views. A vein may become inflamed as the result of mechanical violence, or of being laid bare in an operation, and subsequently exposed to the contact of decomposing discharges, or by being implicated in unhealthy ulceration of the suiTounding structures. In other cases diffuse inflammation may s])read from a septic Avound in the loose areolar tissue surrounding the vein. In all these conditions the phlebitis precedes the thrombosis. The opposite condi- tion may be met Avith Avhen a vein has been Avounded, and its divided end filled Avith a clot is exposed in a septic wound. The clot then becomes im- pregnated Avith septic matter, and fresh coagulation takes place upon its