SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 8 Rodent Ulcer, Nolt-me-tangere, or Cancroid was formerly included under lupus cxcdens. It is one of those remarkable alfections that stand midway between simple and malignant diseases ; being, so far as constitu- tional causes or secondary complications arc concerned, apparently of a simple nature, while, to a certain extent, in regard to structural condition and entirely in respect to local effects, it is of a malignant character. The disease consists essentially of a malignant growth of very feeble vitality and slight activity of development. This invades the surrounding structm’es and destroys them, and in its turn breaks down, disintegrates, and is thrown off, thus causing a j)rogressive destruction of tissue. The disease is especially characterized by its slow progress, by its eroding nature, and by the impossi- bility of healing it by all ordinary methods of treatment. It is essentially a disease of advanced age, seldom beginning before 45 or 50. Its duration is in any given case indefinite ; seldom less than five or six years, occasionally extending to twenty or thirty. It affects individuals of either sex indiscrimi- nately ; and usually occurs in persons who are otherwise perfectly healthy. The health also is not influenced materially, if at all, by its long duration. I have seen persons, who have been victims to it for more than twenty years, in apparently robust health. But it is eventually and inevitably fatal, unless removed by operation. It always commences in the skin, usually on healthy integument; but occasionally it primarily affects a part which is the seat of some chronic change of structure, as a mole, a wart, 'or a scar. It may affect any part of the head, face, or ex- tremities. The face is its seat of election, especially in the upper parts, such as the fore- head, the side of the nose, the inner angle of the eye, or the temple. It spreads simply by continuity of tissue, never by disseminated local or by secondary deposits. It may invade all tissues ; the skin primarily, the cartilage of the ear, the alae and septum of the nose, the parotid gland, the conjunctiva and the eye-ball. It is especially destructive to bone when once it attacks it. It erodes and eats away the bone, without caries or necrosis. It may penetrate to the dura mater, and invade the brain. It progresses, however, by preference superficially, not in depth; hence it is seldom attended by Inemorrhage even in the more advanced stages. The neighbouring lymphatic glands do not become implicated, and secondary visceral deposits are never met with. As the ulceration extends, there is often a tendency to imperfect cicatrization on one margin, whilst the disease is making progress at the other. Symptoms.—In whatever situation it begins, its fii*st appeamnee is in the shape of a tubercle or hard pimple of a brownish-red colour. This tubercle ulcerates slowly ; and then the disease extends. I\Ioore, to whom we are indebted for a most lucid account of this terrible affection, lays especial Fig. 417.—Rodent Ulcer of back of band. Amputation.