! EXCISION OF ELBOW BY LATERAL INCISIONS. 379 ji'sjl iiifRciently exposed to be removed by the suw. Tlie bracliial artery is so com- pletely protected by the brachialis aiiticus that it could not easily be wounded, [j but if there is much pulpy swelling of the synovial membrane it will some- times be found useful to press a copper spatula between the bpnes to facilitate j the exposure of their ends for sawing. The ulnar nerve is in danger while :.the inner side of the ulna is being cleaned for the saw, and sometimes during :;the sawing of the bone, and it must therefore be guarded or drawn on one - side by a bent copper spatula or a blunt hook. Should auy sinuses exist, 'especially towards the inner side of the arm, they had better be left untouched. ' [ have more than once known the ulnar nerve cut across by the Surgeon in .aying open what appeared to be very superficial sinuses in this situation. In this operation it is of gi'eat consequence, so far as the after-utility of the iriii is concerned, not to remove more of the bones lengthwise than is abso- lutely necessary. The shaft of the humerus, for instance, should never be encroached upon ; it will be quite sufficient to limit the excision to the p articular surface. Should any carious portions of bone extend beyond this, I ■think it is better to scoop them out with the gouge than to remove them in , my other way. The excision of the ulna and radius should not be carried so ow as to divide the insertions of the brachialis anticus and biceps. After jupening the articulation, a practical question of considerable importance often Lirises ; viz., to what extent the resection of the articular ends should be carried, [f they be all diseased, there can of com’se be no doubt as to the propriety of 'emo^dng the ends of the three bones. So, also, if the humerus and uhia be ^ iiseased, the head of the radius should be cut off on a level with the section a )f the ulna. But the important point is, whether, in the event of only one jone being implicated, by disease or injury, the Surgeon should limit himself ;0 the excision of this alone, or should remove the other two. Formerly, in k mccordance with the princqjle of conservative surgery, that diseased or injured 't oarts alone should be sacrificed, I have advocated lea\fing the healthy articular mds, and only removing that which was diseased ; but increasing experience las convinced me that the practice is erroneous ; and that, if the joint be only )artially excised, ankylosis, or return of the disease in the bones, is very apt 0 ensue. I would therefore advise that, in all cases, the whole of the articu- ation be removed, as Avell as in those cases in which operation is required in ;onsequence of comminuted and compound fi’actm*e of only one of the bones ; p'ts, for instance, when the lower epiphysis of the humerus, or the upper end of he ulna only, is the seat of such injury. In excision of the elbow for faulty A osseous ankylosis, a piece of the united bones about an inch in length should ^ ' )e sawn out; the cuts should be made at right angles to the shafts of the >ones, and the piece removed must include equal portions of humerus and of ilna. n The operation by iwo lateral mcisions has lately been recommended by lueter and others. The advantages claimed for this method of operating are I-hat it saves to some extent the injury to the triceps involved in the other Loethods, that it provides better drainage, and that the scars are left at the ateral aspects of the new joint instead of behind. The inner incision should fj| )e the shorter, and be made first, the ulnar nerve being turned out of its P’oove and the internal lateral ligament of the joint divided. The outer in- nsion should be of considerable length, and . should pass close to the radial K)rder of the olecranon. Ilueter recommends that the external lateral liga-