294 INFLAMMATION OF BONK AND ITK EFFECTS. ad foiiiid to be lined with scales of new l)onc, the first step towards the repro- duction of the shaft. d’ho new hone deposited on those parts of the surface of the shaft from which a scale of the old osseous tissue has been separated, or enveloj)ing the se(|uestrum when the whole thickness of the shaft becomes necrosed, is at first rough, porous, cancellated, and very vascular ; after a time it gradually becomes more compact and harder. The case of new bone, which neces- sarily exceeds in circumference the old bone, as this is included witliin it, gradually contracts both in texture and in size, becoming firmer and smaller after the removal of the sequestrum ; and, the cloacse closing so soon as all dead bone has been extruded, it eventually acquires the proper size and shape of the bone ; the medullary canal even becoming more or less perfectly restored. In this way, restoration of the whole of the shaft of many of the long bones, such as those of the ann, forearm, and leg, will take place, provided always the epiphyses have been left un- touched by disease. If one or other of these have been destroyed, all power of repair seems to be lost. The new bone usually forms with such rapidity that the shell surrounding the sequestrum, or the mvolucrum, as it is termed, is sufficiently strong to support the limb by the time the dead bone is loose. In cases of acute necrosis, in which amputation has been performed but a few weeks after the setting in of the disease, a thick layer of new bone will sometimes be found under the periosteum ; but in some instances, when the whole of a shaft is necrosed, the new case is not completed, or has not become attached to the articular ends before these are sepa- rated from the shaft. In other cases, though complete, it has not sufficient strength to resist the contractions of the muscles of the limb ; under these circumstances, it may spon- taneously fracture—an accident that I have seen happen both in the femur and the tibia—or may become shortened or bent. In other instances, again, when the periosteum has been lost by sloughing, new bone does not form (Fig. 507) ; but, as the sequestrum separates, the limb becomes shortened, loose, deformed, and useless. Treatment.—In the treatment of necrosis, the indications to be accomplished are sufficiently simple, though the mode in which they have to be carried out often requires much patience and skill on the part of the Surgeon. In those cases in which the bone is perishing fr’om some chronic progressive disease, as chronic osteitis and periostitis with oblite- ration of the Haversian canals, or when it is associated with caries, the first point is to remove, if possible, any constitutional or local condition which tends to keep up the disease. Thus, for instance, if it appear to be the result of scrofula or syphilis, those conditions must be corrected. So, again, if it arise in the lower jaw from the fumes of phosphorus, the patient must neces- sarily be removed from their influence. If it be 'threatened in consequence of denudation of bone, the best mode of prevention will be to lay down flaps of integument and so to cover the exposed surface. Abscesses should Fig. 507. — Acute Necrosis of shaft. Deficient Fonna- tionof NewBone.