RHEUM A TOID ARTHRITIS—SYMPTOMS—TREATMENT. 347 A section of the bones entering' into the affected joint show that the I cancellous tissue beneath the ebnniated surface is more spongy than natural, I the spaces being tilled with yellow fat. In consequence of this atrophy I of the bone, the shape often becomes considerably altered. This is most ( characteristically seen in the neck of the femur, which becomes shortened and I set more at right angles with the shaft than natural. Suppuration rarely occurs in rheumatoid arthritis. I have seen it only » when the disease was developed at an earlier period of life than usual, at from t thirty to forty, or when an injury occuri-ed to the affected joint. Symptoms.—The affected joint becomes partially ankylosed; is swollen, I tender, deformed, and useless. It is the seat of constant pain with occasional I exacerbations, often very severe and prolonged. The general health may f continue fairly good, though life is rendered miserable and barely endurable I by pain and decrepitude. One of the most marked features of the disease is t the crepitus or crackling felt on moving the joint. In the early stages this is s soft, but as the cartilages become destroyed and the bones exposed, it becomes 5 gradually hai-sher till it may almost resemble the crepitus of a broken bone. 1 IVhen the synovial membrane is villous, there is considerable fulness of the j joint with a very fine soft crepitation in movement. The Causes of rheumatoid arthritis are for the most part very obscure. ILong continued exposure to damp cold, as prolonged residence in a damp li house, or on a wet and clayey soil, undoubtedly predisposes to the disease, and r in many cases appears to be the direct occasioning cause. The sprain of a i joint will in many cases appear to be the local determining cause. The . essential cause of the disease is unlmown. It is not scrofula, it is not j gout, it is not true rheumatism; as Garrod truly observes, it is much e easier to prove what rheumatoid arthritis is not, than to give the slightest clue to what it is. It is generally supposed to be dependent upon some form oof malnutrition of the system, and to be predisposed to by depressing influences, physical or moral. That deficient or perverted innervation may in some manner lead to rheumatoid arthritis is not improbable, the more so when we consider that a somewhat analogous condition of joint has been described by Charcot as one of the characteristic phenomena of locomotor ataxy. Treatment.—Little can be done to cure, but much to relieve and retard. Rest and the continued application of warm or stimulating plasters will afford relief; and, in many instances, the administration of the iodide of potassium will lessen the nocturnal pain. Smith recommends an electuary composed of guaiacum, sulphur, the bitartrate and carbonate of potash, and ginger, with a small quantity of rhubarb; and I have certainly seen benefit result from the administration of this remedy in some cases. Ammo- niacum and cod-liver oil are both extremely useful in some cases. When the disea.se is once fairly established, and has assumed a very chronic character, it will be found of great importance to give the affected joiiit as much rest as possible, without confining the patient to the couch or house. This is best effected by his wearing a proper supporting ai)paratus. When the hip or knee is the seat of the disease, the apparatus should consist of a firm leather pelvic band having a steel rod extending down the outsideof the limb, hinged angularly opposite the hip, knee, and ankle, and fixed into a socket in the sole of the bof)t, and properly adjusted by means of stra])S and moulded leather to the thigh and leg. By the use of this apparatus the weight of the limb is taken