CHRONIC OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. 271 Treatment.—In the treatment of the acute fomi of the affection, the free application of leeches, with hot fomentations, will arrest the disease, and give relief to the patient. Should pus form it must bo let out by incision as soon as it is recognized, strict antiseptic precautions being observed in order to diminish the risk of necrosis. In the more chronic farm, the continued administration of the iodide of potassium will take down the swelling, remove the nocturnal pains, and materially improve the local condition of the part. In those cases of periostitis which are of syphilitic character, iodide of potassium may be looked upon almost as a specific. Added to this, repeated blistering will be of essential service. If there be much thickening, the parts suffer from the tension of the structures ; here considerable relief will be afforded by the free division of the periosteum down to the bone, either through the skin, or subcutaneously by means of a tenotome slid under it. Ill n' I \ h ‘111 « f: t 1 b b i ft CHRONIC OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. By Chronic Osteitis and Periostitis is meant an affection usually at- tacking long bones, leading to considerable enlargement, with alteration in structure. It is most common in strumous subjects, and seems to arise from slight traumatic causes or exposure to cold. A section of the affected bone shows that the periosteum is thickened and new bone is being formed beneath it (Osteoplastic Periostitis, p. 270). The compact tissue has become more porous than natural, and fi’om the simultaneous destruction of the old bone and formation of new, it often shows a peculiar laminated expansion of its structure, so that a section of it presents an appearance of concentric parallel layers (Rarefying Osteitis and Expansion of Bone, p. 263). The cancellous tissue may at the same time become denser than natm’al, and new bone may form, filling the medullary canal (Osteoplastic Osteitis of the Cancellous Tissue, p. 270.) As the result of these changes in its various component parts the whole bone may be converted into a uniform mass with but little distinction between the cancellous and compact tissue. When the process becomes extremely chronic, as it often does, the osteoplastic processes may be more pronounced, and the enlarged bone become extremely dense and ivory-like in structure. Chronic osteitis and periostitis may occur alone, but it is more common to find it associated with necrosis of small portions of the cancellous or central layers of the compact tissue, or with the presence of a chronic abscess in the cancellous tissue. The disease may affect the whole length of a bone (Fig. 502), or may be limited to one end. When it occurs in young subjects it is often accompanied by early union of the epiphyses, which may cause shortening from want of growth. In other cases in which the middle part of the bone is chiefly affected, elongation may take place. I have seen, as the result of chronic osteitis, the tibia from one and a half to two inches longer than its fellow. Symptoms.—The symptoms of chronic osteitis consist of enlargement of the affected bone, with deeply seated pain in and great tenderness of the limb : the pain, as in periostitis, is greatly increased at night, and, when the disease is chronic, is much influenced by the state of the weather. There is no danger connected with this condition ; but it often becomes distressing fi’om the severity of the tensive and nocturnal pain accompanying it. In strumous