96 DISEASES OF ARTERIES, this be driven on by any iiimsnally forcible action of tlie heart, as under the influence of sudden violent strain or exertion, they may give way. This occur- rence would be much more frequent tlian it is in atheromatous and calcareous patches, were it not for the inflammatory consolidation of the external coat of the vessel supplying that resistance which has been lost by the softening or destruction of the internal and middle tunics. Hence this rupture is most frequent in those vessels the outer coat of which is thinnest, and in which, consequently, it can least supply the place of the others, as in the arteries of the brain and in the intrapericardial portion of the aorta. Tlie liability to rupture of a diseased artery by the distensile force of the blood impelled into it, is greatly increased by the existence of an obstacle to the free flow of the blood out of its terminal branches in consequence of a congested, infiltrated, or chronically thickened state of the organ or part supplied by it. Contraction and Occlusion of arteries are by no means rare sequences of lesions of these vessels. Harrowing of an artery may take place in various ways ; the orifice of a branch leaving an atheromatous trunk is often narrowed by the formation of a ring-shaped thickening of the inner coat (p. 91), and the calibre is diminished in calcification of the middle coat (p. Oo), syphilitic arteritis (Yol. I., p. 1092), and endarteritis proliferans (p. 92). Causes acting from without, as pressmn, or contraction of chronic inflammatory or cicatricial tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery lead to a narrowing of its lumen. In this way the axillary, the iliac, and even the aorta, have been occluded. Tiedemann records from various sources no fewer than eight cases in which the abdominal aorta was completely closed, in all of which so full and efficient a collateral circulation had been set up, that the vitality of the lower part of the body was perfectly maintained, and in most the morbid state was not suspected during life. Besides these cases he states that there are on record twelve instances of great narrowing of the aorta, at that point where the ductus arteriosus is implanted into it in foetal life. These would appear in some way connected with the closure of the duct; as in every case the indentation was greatest on the convex part of the aorta, which had been drawn in towards the mouth of the duct. The final obliteration of a diseased artery is most commonly the result of thrombosis. Thrombosis takes place in arteries under much the same conditions as in the veins. Whenever the normal endothelial lining of the vessel is lost or its “physiological integrity” impaired by degenerative changes, the blood tends to coagulate upon the diseased surface. The rapidity of the arterial flow, by preventing the adhesion of the white corpuscles, counteracts this tendency to a certain extent, but when the blood-stream becomes slackened either by great dilatation of a large trunk, or by narrowing of the orifice of a branch, or feebleness of the heart’s action, a deposit of fibrin very readily takes place. An arteiy of the second or third magnitude may thus be oblite- rated. When a thrombus has formed in a branch it may extend by fresh deposit into the main trunk and form amass of fibrin projecting into its lumen (Fig. 439). Thrombosis of the diseased artery is probably in a considerable number of cases the final determining cause of dry gangrene in old people. Complete obliteration of an artery is in many cases the result of embolism. The embolus is usually composed of a mass of fibrin which has been deposited on some diseased part of the larger vessels, and subsequently washed away by the blood-stream and lodged in some part at which the trunk suddenly narrows ( i i