NEUMITIS—DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 19 the foot it is felt chiefly on the outer side, the inner being supplied by the long saphenous nerve from the lumbar plexus. By pressing with the point of the finger, tenderness will be found in the course of the nerve. This is most marked in the hollow between the trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium, and down the back of the thigh. The external popliteal nerve is also sometimes acutely tender where it Avinds round the upper end of the fibula. When the patient is lying on his back, if the limb be raised with the knee extended, acute pain is felt in the buttock as soon as the sciatic nerve becomes tense. If now the knee be flexed so as to relax the nerve, flexion of the hip can be carried considerably further without pain. Numbness in some of the parts supplied by the nerve is not uncommon, especially on the outer side of the foot. Motor paralysis never results from simple sciatica, but there may be some weakness or even wasting of the limb from want of use. The affection is very chronic, often lasting many Aveeks or even months. The Diagnosis of sciatica is made by attention to the above symptoms. It is most frequently confounded Avith strumous disease or chronic rheumatic arthritis of the hip. The distinction is in most cases easily made by obsei’Adng that the movements of the hip-joint are free and unaccompanied by pain, unless flexion is carried to such an extent as to render the nerve tense. In rheumatoid arthritis the grating felt in the joint on movement Avill usually indicate the natm-e of the disease ; Avith the “lightning pains” of locomotor ataxy it must not be confounded. In all cases of sciatica a careful examina- tion of the buttock must be made for a tumour in that region ; the lower part of the spine must be examined for signs of caries, and the finger might be passed into the rectum to feel for a pelvic tumour, as in these conditions local treatment directed to the course of the neiwe could be of but little use. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment already described for rheumatic neuritis must be adopted. The limb must be wrapped in flannel. Counter- imtation along the line of the nerve in the early stages by mustard-plasters, and later on by blisters is most useful. Hot baths usually give considerable relief. Stimulating applications, as the ammonia or compound camphor liniment, may be of use ; and sedatives, as the opium or belladonna liniment, may ease the pain, but they do little to cure. Hypodermic injections of morphia should be resorted to only Avhen the patient is suffering from want of sleep due to the pain. They exert no curative influence. If the constitutional treatment and external applications fail, as they very frequently do, tAvo modes of treatment may be adopted, acupunctm’e and nerve-stretching. Acupuncture is thus performed. The patient is laid on his face, and the tender points of themerve found by pressure. Long fine needles are then thrust in so as if possible to puncture the nerve. When the needle touches the nerve the patient complains of a sudden pain doAvn the thigh. 'The number of the needles used should not exceed six. They may be left in for a fcAv minutes. This treatment sometimes gives permanent relief. Our last resource is, hoAvcver, Stretching the Sciatic Nerve. This operation has been more successful in sciatica than in any other painful affection for which it has been undertaken. Nocht has collected 24 cases : of these IG Avere quickly, 5 sloAvly, relieved, in 2 the operation failed, and 1 died. Marshall finds that of 9 cases Avhich occurred in University College Hospital, 4 Avere decidedly improA^ed, 4 partially cured, and 1 failed.'