1027 EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER. CHAPTER LXX. DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. CONGENITAL MALFORMATION, « I Extroversion of the Bladui-ir, cousistiiig in an absence of the anterior ivall of the organ, witli deficiency in the corresponding part of the abdominal I oarietes, is occasionally met with as a congenital malformation. It may occur $ 11 either sex, but is most common in males. I Tills condition essentially consists in an arrest of development, in consequence f >i'f which the anterior part of the pelvic girdle is deficient, the bodies of the it oubic bones being imperfectly developed and the symphysis being absent. The eecti muscles separate at their lower part, and pass obliquely outwards to be ^ ’iiserted into the lateral abutments of the pubic bones. A triangular space is t :hus left, which is filled up by the posterior wall of the bladder, which is con- f inuous with the common integuments, the anterior wall being absent, and ..he interior of the bladder exposed. The cleft commonly extends up to the j.pot at which the umbilical cord enters, so that the umbilicus is wanting. The 4 ttenis is cleft along its dorsal aspect, exposing the floor of the urethra, forming ;he condition known as epispadias. The posterior wall of the bladder, being I iiiushed forwards by the pressure of the abdominal viscera behind, forms a h ' ounded tumour about the size of a small orange just above the pubes. The ; mrface of this tumour is red, vascular, and papillated, evidently composed of ^ laucous membrane ; at its lower part the orifices of the lU’eters will be I wen discharging urine in drops or in a stream. For a full description of the 1 mechanism of the passage of the urine in this malformation, I would refer 4 10 a case which fell under my notice, and in which I made a number of ^ .'xperiments on the rapidity of the passage of foreign matters through the 1 iidneys, reported in the Medical Gazette of 1845. 2 This malformation is of the most distressing kind. The odour constantly f..xhaled from the patient by the dribbling and decomposition of the urine is a ource of annovance to himself and of disgust to others. In order to render his < presence at all tolerable to others, this dribbling must be prevented by some • mechanical contrivance. With this view the patient should wear a properly ^ constructed instrument to receive and collect the urine, consisting of a hollow aield strapped over the part, communicating by means of a tube with an : ndia-rubber bottle, which may be attached along the inside of the thigh. Treatment.—Epto a comparatively recent period thiscondition was considered icurable. Of late years, however, operations have been devised and practised ! c'ith the view of covering in the exposed bladder, forming an anterior Avail to ‘be viscus, and restoring the urinary canal ; so as to jirotcct the tender extro- XTted surface of the bhulder, to prevent the pain and irritation arising from ontact of the clothes Avith it, and, by giving a proper conduit to the urine, to 3 u 2 V