MALIGN A XT TUAIOURS OF THE LARYNX. 679 cartilage. The cartilage is then carefully cliviaed with a knife, or, if it be ossified, with a fine saw. The aim are then held apart with blunt hoo s.s ant the interior of the larynx is fully exposed. A small piece of sponge may t len be passed into the trachea so as to plug the opening above the tube, lest 00 should pass into the lung's. The morbid growth may then be remo\ed witi scissors, and the surface from which it grew touched with nitrate of sih ei. After all bleeding has ceased the sponge is removed, and the parts accurately brought together, and the trachea-tube is retained until the patient can breathe thromdi the 2,‘lottis with ease. Mackenzie has published the results Fii?. 752.—Endo-larjTigeal Forceps. Fig. 753.—Endo-laryugeal Forceps. ■of 48 cases, collected from various sources. Of these 8‘33 per cent, died, in .31'2r) per cent, the operation was followed by persistent dyspnoea, requiring the use of the cannula, and only 14’58 per cent, resulted iu a perfect cure. Tumours attecting the upper opening of the glottis or the epiglottis have also been removed by a transverse incision in the thyro-hyoid space. Malgaigne • recommends that the incision should be made along the loAver border of the .hyoid bone, partially dividing the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ind the thyro-hyoid membrane. The head being thrown well back, sufficient jpace may thus be obtained to allow of removal of the epiglottis or a tumour idtuated in its immediate neighbourhood. This operation can seldom be •cquired, as simple growths in this region can usually be removed from the nouth. Malignant Tumours of the Larynx.—Both true carcinoma and sarcoma 'ire met with in the larynx, but the former is far more common. The form of jarcinoma met with is almost invariably S(|uamous epithelioma. Columnar epithelioma has, however, been observed, and scirrhous glandular cancer is said :o have been seen. When sarcoma occurs in the larynx it is most commonly qiindle-celled, less frequently round-celled or mixed. Butlin, who has collected