USE OF BIGELOW'S EVACUATOR. 1003 i I .j'lass receiver, into whicli the lVa<>'inents may tall by gravitation. It is • essential that the iiulia-rnhbcr bulb must be of sutlieicnt strength. Otherwise - - ------- —- ^ ‘ —o the regurgitant stream will not he sufhciently Ibreible to withdraw any but the -smallest fragments from the bladder. The fluid in the bottle should always contain some antiseptic ; buracic acid, or pemanganate of potash, are perhaps the best. The evacuator, previously filled, having been attached to the catheter, by alternately compressing and relaxing the rubber bulb of the instrument the bladder is filled and emptied. At each injection the fragments are thrown up. At each relaxation of the bulb, some are sucked out in the rush of water. TJiese drop into the glass receiver, where they can be seen by the Surgeon, who thus judges of the progress he is making. This process is 'Continued until all fragments are e\'acuated. Should some have been left behind, too large to pass through the evacuating catheter, the lithotrite must igain be introduced, and these broken up sufficiently for evacuation, which must then be resumed and continued until the bladder is emptied of all alculus. The Surgeon knows when fi-agniciits are left behind too large to .pass, by their falling against the eye of the catheter, blocking it, and thus pre- I venting the return of water into the bulb of the evacuator, as shown by its itailing to expand. This may arise also from the eye of the instrument having come in contact with the wall of the bladder, or from the catheter having oeen accidentally withdrawn till its end lies in the prostatic uretln-a. Before •concluding that the obstruction is due to a fragment, these two conditions nust be excluded, by pushing the catheter a little further in and rotating it. A more certain sign of a fragment is a loud and distinct click every time the oulb is allowed to expand. The removal of every fragment is the essence of the operation. No stone nust be left behind. The operation must be concluded at one sitting, how- ever prolonged. In this way stones of large size, or masses of multiple calculi, may be broken up and removed without reference to the state of the bladder •:>r the prostate ; for it is perfectly applicable in cases of subacute cystitis, of >tony of the bladder, and enlarged prostate. That this operation constitutes an immense and most important advance in ithotrity is undoubted, and its universal adoption by lithotritists is the best Iwidcnce of its utility. It makes lithotrity applicable to numerous cases which r.nder the older and more slowly conducted system were not adapted to and ■ould not be safely treated by it. Sir blenry Thompson, who has largely and most successfully practised ‘ lithotrity at a single sitting,” has made several important modifications in Bigelow's method of procedure. He neither uses the large and hea^7■ litho- rite nor e\acuating catheters of so large a size as those recommended by the Vmerifjan Surgeon. The lithotrite he uses is that with the cylindrical handle .'hich he invented many years ago, and his catheters are not, as a rule, larger han Nos. l.o to IG English scale. His evacuator also is of a somewhat 'ifferent constniction (Figs. 898, 899). The longest time that Sii- Henry Thompson has occupied in an operation at a ingle sitting has been 70 minutes. This was in the case of an unusually hard - ricacid calculus weighing ounces. In the performance of prolonged opera- ion at a single sitting he enjoins the very important caution that the patient’s r >wer extremities should be encased in long woollen stockings, and that especial r are be taken to prevent his getting chilled by exposure. J