185 SY^rPTOMS OF IXTliA-CliAXIAL ANFUlilS.U. the neighbouring’ white matter of the anterior lobe, were removed. In a case recorded by Lager, the portio dura of the riglit side was paralysed from this cause. In R. W. Smith’s case, the floor of the third ventricle, the tuber cinereiuu, and the origins of the oj)tic and olfactory nerves, sutfei’ed; the optic nerve of the opposite side was flattened and softened. Resides the changes that take place in the cerebral substance as the result of pressure, important lesions may be met Avitli as the effect of the inteiTiiption which the presence of the aneurism offers to the circulation in and nutrition of the cerebral hemispheres. Thus, in the case of aneurism of both internal carotids that has already been referred to as occurring at University College Hospital, there was white softening of both the anterior cerebral lobes ; and this lesion was most marked on the side that corresponded to the largest aneurism, and where consequently, it may be supposed, the greatest amount of obstruction to the circulation existed. Sv:MPTOirs.—The symptoms of aneurism within the skull are extremely equivocal; and, indeed, aneurism of large size may exist at the base of the brain without occasioning any symptoms whatever. An interesting instance of this occurred at University College Hospital in 1848. A man, thirty-seven years of age, died of pulmonary apoplexy and chronic pneumonia of the left lung, consequent upon the pressure of an aneurism of the commencement of the descending aorta on the pulmonary veins of that side. On examining the head after death, an aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a hazel-nut was met with, of which no suspicion had been entertained during life, there haWng been no head-symptoms whatever; the sac of the aneurism was veiy thin, and there was much atheromatous degeneration in the vertebral arteries. The only symptoms that are of constant occurrence, when this disease goes on to a fatal termination, are those of hemiplegia and apoplexy. These may come on suddenly without any previous warning ; or they may be preceded by a train of phenomena indicative of the existence of chronic disease within the cranial cavity. The most constant of these phenomena is pain ; which affects, how^ever, gneat variety, both in extent and in character. It may be diffused, or may occupy a fixed point; it may be continuous or intermitting; it may be increased by movement, or accompanied by peculiar sensations, as of pulsation or of opening and shutting the top of the cranium. The sight and hearing are often impaired. Dimness of sight, dilatation of - one or Ixjth pupils, photophobia, diplopia, and loss of vision have been noticed in several of the cases recorded. Gow'ers states that intra-cranial aneurisms even of large size, arc not as a rule accompanied by any associated ocular changes. Nor do they often cause consecutive changes, unless their position is such as to ]ires8 upon the optic nerves ; there is then loss of vision with atrophy of the nerve recognizable by the ophthalmoscope. If the aneurism press on the cavernous sinus, there may be some fulness of the retinal veins, but this is usually only temporaiy, the pressure being relieved by the free communication lietween the ophthalmic and facial veins. Optic neuritis is rare as the result of intracranial aneurisms. Ptosis has been met with from pressure on the third nen-e by aneurism of the posterior communicating artery. Buzzing noises in the ears, and deafness, are not uncommon symptoms ; deafness, more Jiarticularly, njqiears to lie a phenomenon of fi’equent occurrence.