ABSENCE OF ANUS AND RECTUM. 86i i cannula, which is then slipped out over it and along the probe, or a director which may be substituted for it, a narrow-bladed pair ot dressing forceps is pushed up and opened out so as to dilate the opening in the septum. During this process, the retained fieces will have escaped. The aperture must be kept free by the occasional introduction and expansion of the forceps or of a laminaria tube. It is important to observe that, although the anus may be perfectly formed and patent, with a canal above it about half an inch long, the rectum may be entirely absent, the sigmoid flexure terminating in a dilated pouch opposite the sacral prominence. In such cases it is of course impossible to reach the gut through the anus. In a case of this kind, in an infant four days old, in -which I was unable to reach the gut through the anal aperture, I performed lumbar colotomy. Complete Absence of Anns.—The anus may be completely absent, being • blocked up by a dense mass of libro-cellular structure, from half-an-inch to an inch in thickness, above which the rectum terminates in a kind of cul-de-sac. Closure of Anus with Absence of Rectum.—It has already been stated , that in some cases of perfect formation and patency of the anus the rectum is absent, but more commonly the anus is closed when the whole of the rectum is wanting; the intestine (colon) terminating in a large and expanded pouch, situated high up at the brim of the pelvis, opposite the sacral prominence. A case of this kind differs from the last only in the extent of the occlusion, and cannot indeed be distinguished from it until the Surgeon has made an incision in the site of the anus, and has failed to reach the gut at the usual distance. Treatment.—In these cases the Surgeon must first make an attempt to reach the bowel from the perinmum, failing which, two coiu’ses are open to him. He may open the colon in the left iliac fossa, or he may open it in the left lumbar region by Amussat’s operation. 1. Ferinceal incision.—The perinmal incision has the advantage of being in the natm-al situation of the anus, and of being easily practised and usually successful in all those cases in which the anus only is imperforate, the rectum being present. In those cases in which there is congenital absence of the rectum this operation must necessarily fail. The operation is thus per- formed :—An incision about an inch in length should be carefully made from the point of the coccyx forwards. The dissection requires to be carried with cjiutioii to a considerable depth along the mesial line ; and the Surgeon taking the curve of the sacrum and coccyx for his guide, and bearing in mind the relations of the bladder and large vessels in the neighbourhood, carefully proceeds in search of the gut, which may be found at a considerable depth from the surface. A probe may l)e passed into the m-ethra of a male child, or the vagina, of a female, to servo as a guide to the position of these canals. I The danger of wounding the bladder must also be considered, and may be materially les.seiied by emptying this viscus by pressing over the pubes before commencing the operation. In four iiLstances of this kind ou which I liave openited, it was necessary to jiroceed to a depth of at least cue and a half or two inches before the bowel was reached; wliich, on account of the narrowness of the wound and the small size and important relations of the parts is not an easy matter. When the gut is i-eached it must be punctured and the meconium allowed to escaj)e.