426 DISEASES OF THE SPIXE. hydatid cysts ; and 1), femoral hernia with fluid in the sac. These various collections may, however, Avith a little caution be readily distinguished from the ordinary form of spinal abscess that descends along the psoas muscle. In the first place, in all these cases there is an absence of that dorsal pain and tenderness, Avith more or less cxcurAmtion, Avhich, though not invariably present, is commonly met Avith in psoas abscess. Then, again, if the collection be perm&phritic, there Avill have been previous, or there are co-existing symptoms of renal disease. I have, hoAvever, seen an abscess dependent on caries of the Amrtebrm not only assume the perinephritic form, but open into the pelvis of the kidney, thus simulating chronic pyelitis. In this case the diagnosis Avas made by a careful examination of the pus, in Avhich molecular masses of carious bone Avere found. The chemical and microscopic examination of the pus in all cases of doubt should never be omitted. If there be caries, it will present unmistakable evidence of the presence of disintegrated bone. If it occur in the areolar tissue around the emeum, the pus Avill be peculiarly offensive, Avill present itself in a less distinct manner, and will probably be associated Avith symptoms of intestinal irritation. Moreover, perinephritic or pericoecal abscesses being superficial to the iliac fascia, do not extend beloAv Poupart’s ligament except in some rare cases, in which the abscess is acute, and forces its way irrespective of the attachments of the fascim. Thus I have seen the pus in a pericoecal abscess pass under Poupart’s ligament, and present as a large sloughy abscess at the upper and outer part of the thigh. In those ; rare cases in which an empyema has foimd its Avay between the layers of the i abdominal muscles, and presented in the groin, the examination of the chest | will point out the nature of the afiection. In abscess connected ivith disease of^. the hijj-joint, there Avill be special local evidences of the source of the pus. The i only real difficulty consists in diagnosing a psoas abscess dependent on disease of the vertebral column, before it reaches the thigh, from iliac abscess, whether it take its origin in the loose areolar tissue of the iliac fossa, or be connectec Avith disease of the corresponding bone ; and in the latter cases the difficulty is often not a little increased in consequence of the iliac abscess finding its Avay into the sheath of the psoas muscle. If the iliac abscess be superficial to the fascia iliaca, it A^ery rarely passes beneath Poupart’s ligament, owing to the firm attachment of these two structm’es to each other. In very rare cases such abscesses find their way along the spermatic cord or doAvn the femoral sheath, and thus leaAm the abdomen, but these could not be confounded Avith psoas abscesses. When the collection of pus forms beneath the fascia iliaca, there is nothing to prevent its extending to the psoas or passing down under Poupart’s ligament, and the determination of its origin whether from disease of the ilimn, or vertebrse, or from a strain, can be made only by the presence or absence of the symptoms of disease of the spine. Wlienever the abscess is beneath the fascia, there are some signs of irritation of the ilio-psoas muscle which are usually wanting Avhen the pus is in the sub-peritoneal tissue, These signs are most marked Avhen the abscess extends along the whole length of the psoas. There is then an inability to stand upright, to extend the leg, and pain is complained of in walking. Psoas abscess also, in many cases, apj)^rs on the thigh suddenly, the patient finding, on Avashing himself in the morning, that he has a large soft tumour in the groin ; whereas iliac abscess coinci on more gradually, and presents in a more diffused and less circumscribec manner.