594 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. with the convexity downwards and terminatino- at the middle of the zygoma ; the second began at the nasal notch of the frontal bone, and, following the lower margin of the orbit, crossed the frontal process of the superior maxillary bone, and joined the lower incision at its outer extremity. The soft parts ; were not dissected up. The lower incision was then carried to the bone, and [ the masseter dissected from its attachment to the malar bone. By depressing [ the lower jaw so as to remove the coronoid process out of the way, the finger [ ' could be forced in front of the anterior border of the temporal muscle into the spheno-maxillary fossa, which was dilated by the tumour, into \ the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. A narrow saw was now ' passed along the finger—its point being protected by the forefinger of the left hand introduced into the nostril—and a cut was made directly forwards tln’ough the ascending process of the palate bone and the body of the superior maxillary bone, across the cavity of the antrum, parallel to the hard palate and immediately above it, terminating at the anterior naris. The upper incision was now deepened, and the soft parts were raised from the floor of the orbit ! and from the angle between the zygoma and the malar bone : and, the saw i being again introduced, a cut was made through the malar bone into the i ■spheno-maxillary fissure, and thence across the floor of the orbit as far as the ! lachrymal bone. The wedge-shaped piece of the superior maxillary bone in- . eluded between these cuts was now attached only by its connections with the nasal and frontal bones, and by the soft parts covering it, which were untouched. By introducing an elevator into the cut in the malar bone, the whole piece was lifted up, bending upon its attachment to the nasal and c fr’ontal bones as upon a hinge, until it was completely turned inwards and o upwards over the opposite side of the face. The tumoui’, which was found to have extensive connections in the pterygo-rnaxillary region, was now removed. The bone was then replaced, and the wound closed. On the sixth day, the greater part of the wound was healed ; on the sixteenth the wound I: had completely healed, and no mobility could be felt in the bone. *11' Ollier’s and Lawrence’s operations, which are adapted specially to tumours ■: ■of the nasal fossEe, have been already described. i DISEASES OP THE LOWER JAW. 9 Abscess in the Lower Jaw.—Chronic abscesses, causing “ expansion of I:: the bone,” have been met with in the lower jaw. They may arise in connec- If tion with the fang of a diseased tooth, or from suppuration of a dentigerous lii cyst. If the shell of bone surrounding the pus be very dense they may I, resemble solid tumours. Their treatment presents nothing peculiar. ■: Acute Suppurative Periostitis is occasionally met with in the lower jaw. It probably is dependent on carious teeth, but the immediate cause ■< seems usually to be exposure to cold, such as riding in a train facing an ■ open window. The disease is characterized by rapid swelling, with tension ■ and redness of the skin. A large abscess quickly forms, surrounding the H bone, usually limited to one side, about the angle. The swelling extends H downwards into the neck, and tends to point externally. On opening the H abscess a large part of the bone can be felt bare and denuded of its periosteum. H If the pus be let out early, free drainage provided, and decomposition pre- M vented, no necrosis may take place. It is usually necessary to make the H