DISEASES OF JOINTS. 322 CHAPTER XLVIII. DISEASES OF JOINTS. The various joints of the body may become the seat of Inflammatory Afiec- tions of an acute or chronic character; of Strumous Disease ; or of various, other morbid conditions, such as more or less permanent rigidity, or Ankylosis, the formation of Foreign Bodies within their cavities, and Neuralgia. In studying these various articular affections, it must be borne in mind that a joint is composed of a number of different tissues; of sjmovial membrane cartilage, bone, ligament, and capsule, or investing fibrous expansion. In any one of these structures the disease may primarily begin, though eventually the morbid process often spreads to other tissues besides that which was originally involved. The merit of having been the first to point out the true mode of j studying these affections in reference to the different structures in which they ; have originated, and to have set aside that coarse pathology which, under i the general terms of “ arthritis ” and of “ white swelling,” confounded to- | together these various diseases, is certainly due to Sir Benjamin Brodie. ; SYNOVITIS. I Inflammation of the Synovial Membrane, the most common perhaps of | all the articular affections, may be acute, subacute, or chronic. I Causes.—Synovitis results usually from exposure to cold, especially in j rheumatic or gouty constitutions. In these cases it commonly happens that I more joints than one are implicated at the same time ,• and the affected j articulations are more frequently those that are most exposed by having the ,■ thinnest covering of soft parts, and by being especially subjected to transitions - of temperature, such as the knees and ankles. Synovitis with moderate effusion is sometimes met with in the secondary stage of syphilis at the same time as the cutaneous eruptions. Gonorrhoea is an occasional cause of inflammation of the synovial membrane and acute synovitis may occur in pyaemia and other forms of blood-poisoning. Injuries of joints, as blows, bruises, wounds, or sprains, will also frequently occasion this inflammation ; but when arising from such causes, it is usually associated with inflammation of the other textures of the articulation. Pathology.—As uncomplicated acute synovitis is never fatal, we seldom have an opportunity of studying its pathology. It would, however, appear j from the examination of joints in cases of synovitis from injury, as well as ; from the experiments of Bichet, Bonnet, and others, who have induced trau- • matic synovitis in animals, that there is in the first instance an inflammatory | congesti on of the synovial membrane, with loss of its peculiar satiny polish. The | synovia is then increased in quantity, and becomes thin and serous, and after j a time intermixed with inflammatory exudation which is poured out with it. j If the disease progress favourably, these products are more or less completely ; absorbed. In more rare cases, the congestion and swelling of the synovial