278 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. I In a case of compound fracture, the contrast between the deep coloration of | the inflamed portion of bone and the naturally pallid appearance presented by that which is not diseased, and more particularly the deep red hue of the 1 medulla in the one, and the pale yellowish waxy-looking fat filling the medullary I canal in the other, is most striking and remarkable. Fayrer describes the i medullary canal, in advanced stages of the disease, as being filled with a mass | of dead blackened medulla, dehris of bone, and pus. ^ Symptoms.—In acute osteomyelitis, after an injury to or an operation ; involving the bone, the limb swells, with deep-seated severe aching pain and ‘ much tenderness. Abscesses form often unconnected with the original wound, and 1 profuse suppuration is established. The suppuration may amount to many ounces of pus in the day, and the discharge is often dark-coloured and fetid. The soft parts retract from the bone, and this where exposed is dry, yellow and dead, being denuded of periosteum. Septic inflammation and suppuration of the diploe are not uncommon in head injuries. In such cases the scalp is swollen, the periosteum loosened from the bone, and the outer table dry and bare. If the outer table be cut away after death, the red diploe will be found infiltrated by offensive pus. The constitutional symptoms are those of severe septic fever. The tempera- ture is seldom below 103° F. In many cases the symptoms soon become those of acute pyaemia. If the patient escapes pyaemia the fever subsides, and subsequent symptoms are merely those dependent upon the presence of the necrosed bone. Treatment consists in supporting the patient’s constitutional powers by a tonic and stimulating regimen, and by scrupulous attention to hygienic • rules. The less acute forms of the disease call for no treatment beyond attention to cleanliness while the sequestra are becoming loose enough for removal. 1 In the more acute forms which threaten to terminate in pyaemia, nothing | can be done so far as the affected bone is concerned, except its removal ; but \ whether this should be done in the continuity of the bone or at a higher joint, ; is a question on which different opinions are entertained among surgical ! authorities. If an operation be performed upon the continuity of a bone ; affected with diffuse suppuration in the medullary canal, the septic iuflamma- j tion will most likely recur in the part of the bone which is left. Hence, if | secondary amputation of an injured hmb should be rendered necessary, the i bone being affected with osteomyelitis, it is strongly m'ged by some Surgeons, especially by J. Eoux, that the operation should be performed at some joint above the injured and diseased bone, in preference to amputation through its continuity. Eoux, who had extensive experience in the Italian war of 1859, successfully disarticulated the thigh at the hip-joint, in four cases of osteo- myelitis consequent on gunshot-injuries of the lower end of the femur. Of 22 cases in which he performed secondary disarticulation of other joints for osteo- myelitis, all recovered ; whereas every soldier died, whose limb was secondarily amputated through the continuity of the injured bone after the battles of Magenta, Montebello, Marignano, and Solferino. On the other hand, Larrey did not consider disarticulation absolutely indispensable, even in cases of acute osteomyelitis; and Longmore has met with cases in which recovery has followed the simple removal of portions of dead bone—the disease in these instances having assumed a chronic form. Fayrer advises that, where