4 c 2 I * URINA R Y FIST UL.E— URET 11RO PL ARTY. j 123 \ • through the fi8tiila3; if too large, it stretches the urethral orifice of the fistula ( injm-iously. ^ If the stricture be very tough and irritable, the better plan is to perform I I urethrotomy at once, as much time and pain are thus saved. In the majority I of instances, internal urethrotomy with Oiviale’s instrument appears to me I to be the safest and simplest procedure, and I have very advantageously 1 practised it in such cases. But if the fistuhn be very numerous, so as to riddle the perinmiun and scrotum in all directions, perhaps the better plan is to perform the perineal section. In this way we not only divide the stricture, and thus at once remove all obstruction, but give a free exit to the urine, which, instead of escaping by tortuous and sinuous passages, finds its way out readily through the new aperture that has been made, and this will eventually granulate and heal by the second intention. The fistulaa, especially if small and recent, will sometimes heal kindly enough after the removal of the obstruction ; but if extensive, old, and carti- laginous, they are of course little disposed to take on reparative action ; and although the cause that in the first instance gave rise to them may be removed, yet they constitute an independent affection which requires special treatment. The special treatment for urinary fistula must vary according to the size of the canal, but more particularly with regard to the part of the urethra with which it communicates; whether it be a Perineal, a Scrotal, or a Penile fistula. But in all cases, and wherever it be situated, there is one most important point to be attended to, viz., never to let the fistula be distm’bed or irritated by the passage of urine over or through it, or it wiU never heal. Hence the m’ine must always be drawn off with the catheter, which the patient should be taught to pass for himself. If the fistula be Perineal, and of small size, a probe coated with melted nitrate of silver, or a wire made red-hot in the ordinary way, or by the galvanic current, and passed down it occasionally, may cause its contraction. If it be large, the edges of the fistula may be freely rubbed with the nitrate of silver, or deeply pared and brought together by quilled sutures, after which the I urine should be drawn off, whenever required, by a catheter. If the fistulse be large and very numerous, it will be better to pass a grooved director down the piincipal ones, and slit them up so as to throw the several sinuses into the larger one. When the fistula is Scrotal, it often requires to be laid open, and to be made t/i granulate from the bottom, when it may be found to communicate with large sloughy and ill-conditioned cavities in this situation. When Penile, the fistula is usually much more troublesome to heal; its edges are thin, and the track is short and shallow. Urethroplasty may in such cases be advantageously practised. Opera- tions of this kind require for their success very careful management and minute attention to detail; they very commonly fail in consequence of a small quantity of urine or of mucus escaping through the wound, and thus inter- fering with union of its lips. In order to prevent this accident, which is fatal to the success of the operation, the patient should be taught to pass a catheter, and thus to draw off his own urine after the operation as often as necessary ; or an assistant must do this every third or fourth hour. Should this, however, not be j)racti(‘able, a