SPECIAL ANlWniEME. i86 The patient rarely loses the power of articulation and of deglutition ; im- pairment of these functions, however, has l)een met with. There may be paralysis of the side of the face, shaking palsy, or coin])lete hemiplegia ; or fits of an epileptic nature may occur. Tlie mental condition may undergo changes indicative of chronic disease of the brain. There may be depression of spirits, listlessness, or, as was noticed in the case above related, the temper may become irritable, and the patient be garrulous or silly. Jn- sanity has been noticed in one case. As is always the case in cerebral afiections, the gastric functions are often impaired. In some cases the presence of aneurism has been detected by a loud rough or “ whizzing” noise heard on the application of a stethoscope over one side of the head, and, perhaps, audible to the patient. This sign, however, exists in but few cases ; but when it does occur, it is unquestionably the most pathognomonic of all. I am not aware that it has been met with in any form of cerebral disease except intracranial aneurism. Thus it will be seen by a reference to this list of symptoms that, with the exception of the whizzing noise, no special signs are afforded by aneurisms within the skull, which will enable us to distinguish between the symptoms occasioned by their presence and those of other tumours of the brain, and of organic cerebral disease. Very frequently no premonitory symptoms manifest themselves ; the patient being suddenly seized when apparently in good health, with apoplexy, which terminates rapidly in death. Causes op Death.—The fatal termination may occur from one of four causes. 1. The tumour may exercise moh. pressure upon the ivliole cerelralmass as to occasion death. This mode of termination is rare. I am acquainted with one case of this description, which is reported by Euschenberger. The symptoms were very remarkable, consisting of complete hemiplegia of the left side, with involuntary antero-posterior vibration of the head and body, and paralysis agitans of the right leg. The patient slept heavily, with loud snoring; he ate voraciously, but occasionally had considerable difficulty in deglutition and articulation ; his intellect was clear, but very slow. After death, an aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a pigeon’s egg, containing an irregular, very hard, dry clot of blood, was found pressing on the pons Varolii. The sac had given way at one point, extravasation taking place into the sub- stance of the pons, which was softened, and of a bluish colour. 2. The most frequent mode in which death takes place in these cases is by the sudden rupture of the sac and extravasation of blood into the cavity of the arachnoid and the meshes of the pia mater at the base of the brain, or into the lateral ventricles—either from the aneurism projecting into them and there giving way, or rupturing into these cavities by breaking down the inteiA ening cerebral substance (Figs. 474, 475). When this mode of termination occurs, there are occasionally no warning nor premonitory symptoms of impending danger; the patient, when apparently in good health, being struck down by an attack of apoplexy w'hich is speedily fatal. More frequently a series of those symptoms that have already been mentioned as attending many cases of this disease, precede the fatal event for a longer or shorter time. "When rupture of the sac and extravasation of blood take place, death is inevitable ; at least, I am not acquainted with any case in which the appearance found after death i I ( jf*i ' I :s ! hJ il( I ii ;1 I' -a Sii r. li