704 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUPE AND QUEST. Dr. Barry in 1727 recomincnding tliat phthisical cavities sliouhl he opened, with the view of giving a direct exit to the contained matters, and thus, hy avoidinrr ^dolent paroxysms of cough, that the ]>arts may he kept at rest, and he more likely to undergo a cure. The proposal received little attention, and the practice—if ever adopted by others than Barry—died out, until, iu 183G, it Avas revived by an empiric of the name of llamadge, who appears to have tapped the chest on several occasions in order to let out pus from cavities in the lungs. In 1845 a most able young Surgeon—Storks—performed this operation Avith success, and Avith advantage to the patient, in a case of Dr. Hastings. Storks operated by making a long incision upon the upper border of a rib, and then opening up the cavity by means of a pair of forceps, inserting a cannula to allow of the escape of the contents. This case attracted little attention at the time, and the operation again died out. Of late years, hoAv- ever, it has been revived, and Hosier of Greifswald has been more especially actiA’^e in its resuscitation. Hosier not only tapped, but injected the cavities Avith disinfectant solutions. In a case of Dr. Theodore Williams I operated by Storks’ method. The patient, a gentleman 21 years of age, had an enormous caA'ity at the base of the left lung. The discharge from this was not only profuse, but most horribly offensive; the patient being unable, even by the most violent and ; continued paroxysms of cough, to empty the cavity ; a large quantity of ' decomposed muco-pus was always present in it. I made an incision on the I upper border of the seA^enth rib in the lateral mesial line, and pushing a large < trochar and cannula through the sixth intercostal space, perforated with dilfi- i culty some A^ery condensed tissue, probably thickened pleura and fibrosed lung, i and then penetrated the cavity. Nearly two pints of muco-pus were dis- i charged, and the patient derived great relief; the cough diminished, and ! then entirely disappeared. The cavity was washed out Avith dilute Condy’s fluid. Immediately on the cavity being opened, a limited pneumothorax, folloAved by extensHe subcutaneous emphysema, occuiTed, but gave rise to no trouble of any moment. This Avas doubtless owing to a portion of non- adherent pleura liaAdng been perforated at the spot selected for the operation. The patient Avas greatly benefited by the operation, and lived for six mouths after in comparative comfort. Dr. Pepper of Philadelphia, who has published an exhaustive article on this subject, adopts a different procedure. He taps the vomica Avith a small cannula and trochar fitted to a syrmge, and injects the cavity Avith diluted tincture of iodine. The results of his practice have in many cases been very encouraging. Operation.—When the pulmonary cavity is deeply-seated, more especially if basic, the operation may be conducted as folloAvs. An aspirator-needle, of sufficient size to permit the passage of thick pus, having been thrust through ! the intercostal space, opposite to the seat of the supposed abscess, will, if it ' penetrate the cavity, indicate by the escape of pus that this has been reached. i A horizontal incision about two inches long is then made in the intercostal ' space. A full-sized flat trochar (Fig. 70!)) is then thrust through the jAlenni < and pulmonary tissue; the aspirator-needle, Avhich has sensed as a guide, l)cing ' AvithdraAvn. The cannula of the trochar, of silver or vulcanite, should haA'e a i broad plate, by Avhich it may be fastened by strings and plaster to the cliest- ' wall. As free drainage of the cavity, more especially if it be basic, is the