150 ANEURISM. rounding- the needle. The battery used in the operation is of considerable importance. It has been pointed out by Ciniselli, tliat a current of liif^h tension and somewhat low intensity is less likely to cause the production of undue heat during the operation, and consequently less prone to lead to in- flammation and suppuration of the sac. A battery, therefore, composed of a lai-ge number of small elements is superior to one of a few large elements. Some operators, and especially Bastian, have advocated the introduction of the positive pole only, the negative being attached to a sponge or metal plate laid on the skin near the aneurism. The only objection to this mode of treat- ment is the excessively small effect produced. The electrolytic action which takes place is directly in proportion to the intensity of the current ; and by the introduction of a considerable mass of the tissues of the patient in the circuit, the resistance is so greatly increased that electrolysis is reduced to a scarcely appreciable amount, the positive needle appearing almost uuchanged after the operation. Others, again, have introduced the negative needle only, but as the coagulum formed at the negative pole is soft and frothy, but little good can be expected fr’om this mode of operating. Dr. Julius Althaus, who has superintended the operation m five cases, is strongly of opinion that “ the most effective application of the current is that where both poles are inserted into the sac.” Ciniselli operated in this way, and Drs. Duncan and Fraser, to whom we are indebted for many important observations on galvano-puncture and for the invention of reliable insulated needles, support the same view. The operation is accompanied by but little pain, and it is only occasionally that chloroform is needed. The effect of a single operation is seldom sufficient to cause any marked improvement in the condition of the patient, and it requires usually to be repeated several times. The clot formed as the result of galvano-punctme is somewhat soft and yielding, and unless supported by a moderately firm sac soon flattens out or disappears, and the condition of the aneurism becomes much the same as it was before the operation. Little more than the most temporary relief can for this reason be expected in many cases ; and whenever the aneurism has become diffused, the operation can only be productive of mischief by hastening the inflammatory changes occurring round the sac. It might be supposed that so soft a clot would readily break up, and that the danger of embolism would be great in consequence; but experience has shown that it is not, no such accident havmg happened in any of the recorded cases. Suppuration of the sac has occasionally occurred, but its occm’rence has been much less fr’erpient since the principles of the operation have been more fuUy understood. The formation of sloughs romid the needle-punctmes, and consequent hjemorrhage, has not been noticed except when the needles have been imperfectly insulated. In fact, it may be said that in almost every case, even when the operation has failed to give relief, it has at any rate done no harm. The statistics of the operation have not been fully compiled, but the general results of the published cases have not been unfavourable when wo consider the hopeless nature of the cases in which it has been performed. Of 13 cases of aneurism of the aorta treated by Ciniselli’s method, five Avere cured, and no evil consequences folloAA'cd in any case. Of the same number AA’hich haA*e been operated on in this country during the last feAA" years, none haA'e been cured, but at least six experienced more or less relief; and in almost all, it may l^e said, the operation aimed only at relief, the disease being too advanced to 1 d I I f t L t ■ I. \ • wrnrirnr..'<n Bf