6qo operations on THE AIR-TUBE AND CHEST. ^[aiiy Surgeons of authority in these matters advise that the windpipe should not be opened until all, or nearly all, the bleeding has ceased ; lest the blood entering the bronchi and lungs thi-ough the aperture, as])hyxiate the patient! Ihit in this way much valuable time may he consumed, and the patient may be fatally exhausted by a tedious and prolonged operation, and by the loss of an nnnecessarily large quantity of blood. The haBinorrhage in this operation is almost entirely venous, and is, in a great measure, dependent on the distension of the veins of the neck, which occurs in asphyxia as the result of the accumula- tion of blood in the right cavities of the heart, consequent upon the ol)structed circulation through the lungs ; and the bleeding will continue so long as that obstruction remains unmoved. But as the respiratory process is re-established, this obstruction to the pulmonic circulation diminishes, the cardiac cavities become unloaded, the venous turgescence of the neck subsides, and the liEemorrhage proportionately lessens. This I have repeatedly found in asphvxia artificially induced in animals ; and I have often seen it in the human subject, in cases in which it has become necessary to open the windpipe at once, without waiting to arrest haemorrhage. Hence, except in those instances in which an arterial twig or large venous trunk has been wounded, and which must of course be secured, the occurrence of bleeding, though toleraldy smart, need not deter the Surgeon from opening the windpipe ; as the relief afforded to respiration will induce a corresponding and rapid diminution in the venous turgescence of the neck, and in the consecpieut flow of blood from the wound. It is important to bear in mind that the risk of haemorrhage is not entirely avoided by the use of blunt instruments. The veins are very thin-walled and easily torn, and I have seen very troublesome bleeding caused in this way by the incautious use of a director. The difficulties arismg from haemorrhage are very greatly increased by an insufficient incision. There is seldom any trouble in arresting the bleedmg if the w^ounded vessel_ can be clearly seen. Sir Spencer Wells’s forcipressure forceps wiU be found invaluable under these circumstances, as the vessel can be seized and the forceps left attached till the operation is completed. Should blood accidentally enter the trachea in such quantities as to threaten suffocation, it must be sucked out either by the mouth applied to the tube or by an aspirator tube passed down the trachea. As in diphtheria it is extremely dangerous to suck the tube; it is advisable, Avhen performing tracheotomy, always to have an aspirator at hand in case of need. 3. Another difficulty in tracheotomy sometimes attends the process of Opening the Trachea after it is exposed. In consequence of the convulsive breathing of the patient, the sterno-mastoids are put upon the stretch, thus Fig. 75".—Tvachea-liook-Director. increasing considerably the depth of the Avound in the neck; and, at each short and gasping respiration, the air-tube is rapidly jerked up and down, approaching to and receding from the surface in such a way that the scalpel