K 2 SUPPURATION OF SAC. {■' 131 i .knows in what situation to seek the feeding vessel. How much gi’eater then must the difficulty be, wheu he is in uncertainty as to the point at which the artery enters the sac, and cannot know whether there be more than one arterial * branch leading into it. In the event, therefore, of all other means failing, and of the pulsation in the tumour continuing, amputation is the only resource left to the Surgeon. In those situations in which this is impossible, the Surgeon may occasion- ally attempt the old operation. Smythe, of New Orleans, as a last resource, I laid open a subclavian aneurism, for which he had successfully tied the innominate some years before, but failed to secure the artery, and the patient died. jMorris, however, has successfully adopted this proceeding in a case of carotid aneurism after ligature of the common trunk had failed; and Berkeley Hill in a case of axillary aneurism after ligature of the subclavian. Since the introduction of absorbable ligatures into surgical practice, a return of pulsation has in a few cases been due to a restoration of the lumen of the i arter}' after the disappearance of the ligature. This is recognized by the «| presence of pulsation in the vessel at the point at which it was tied. These cases belong to a different class to those in which the vessel has been 'permanently occluded, and require different treatment. The artery may be ligatured again at or near the same spot or at some other point. In a case of ^ :bhis kind that occurred under the care of Christopher Heath in University bllege Hospital, the femoral was successfully tied in Hunter’s canal after .igature of the artery in Scarpa’s triangle had failed. The causes of failure of ;';:he hgature have already been described (Vol. I., p. 402). 3. Suppuration and SlougMng of the Sac.—When, after the ligature ) )f its supplying artery, an aneurism is about to suppurate, instead of diminish- : ng in size, it increases, with heat, pain, pulsation, and some inflammatory Hiscoloration of the skin covering it. This gradually becomes thinned, and i it last gives way; the contents of the tumour, softened and broken down ’ )y inflammation and the admixture of pus, are discharged through the Uperture in its wall, in the form of a dark purplish brown or plum-coloured r.nd often foetid fluid, intermixed with masses of a soft dark coagula, or of the e l lrier laminated flbrine, which may not inaptly be compared in appearance to - K)rtions of raisins or dates. The escape of these matters, variously altered, ! nay be accompanied or followed by the escape of florid arterial blood. This 9 uaemorrhage, which is the great source of danger in the suppuration of an >neurismal sac, may occur in a sudden violent gush, by which the patient Day at once be destroyed, at the time of the rupture of the tumour; or it i.aay continue in small quantities, which, after ceasing, recur from time to ime, thus gradually exhausting the patient. It is this occurrence of secondary icEmorrhage that constitutes the principal danger after suppuration of an '.neunsm, which otherwise is not a source of any very serious risk to the > >atient; about one-fourth only of the cases in which the sac has suppurated laving had a fatal termination, and almost all those in which death resulted laving proved fatal by hemorrhage. The patients in a few remaining instances lave been carried off by some special accidents, such as the pressure of the sac n the pharynx or oesophagus, or the discharge of the contents of the tumour nto the pleura or bronchial tubes. Hemon’hage is more liable to occur when uppmation takes place a few weeks after the ligature of the artery, than *'hen a longer interval has elapsed. That hmmorrliage docs not happen more