1152 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. orchitis ; tlic inflammation of the testis causing the effusion of a quantity of fluid into its serous investment (p. 11-18). This, however, is not tlie kind of hydrocele tliat is commonly met with ; the fluid so poured out as tlie result of active inflammation becoming absorbed as the parts recover tlieii- normal condition. The ordinary hydrocele occurs as a chronic disease, with- out any signs of inflammation of the testicle, or, at most, with but slight tenderness of that organ. It is most frequently met with in individuals about the middle period of life, commonly without any evident exciting cause, either constitutional or local. It is very common in men who have lived long in warm climates, and Sir J. Fayrer considers it in some cases to have a malarial origin. In young infants, hydrocele is not unfrequently seen, and in them it may affect two forms : either the ordinary one, similar to that which occins in adults in whom the tunica vaginalis constitutes a closed sac filled with fluid ; or a less common variety, in which the accumulation of fluid in the tunica vaginalis communicates, by the persistence of a canal in the funicular pr(j- longation of the peritoneum investing the cord, with the general cavity of that membrane. This form of hydrocele is Congenital; and the fluid in it occupies the same position that intestine does in a congenital hernia. It may There is no impulse in it when the patient coughs. Whatever its .original condition, the tmnour soon becomes oval or ]i}Tiforni in shape, being narrowed aboA e, rounded and may have merely a semi-elastic feel. It reaches upAvards along the cord, towards the external abdominal ring, which, may in some rare cases be (Fig. !Hil) invaded by it, but the cord is usually distinctly to be felt above the up])er marain of the tumour. Most commonly the size varies from that of a hen's readily be recognized by the fluid being made to floAV back into the general peritoneal cavity, on raising or squeezing the tiunour. But, although this may be considered to be the true congenital form of hydrocele in infants, the other variety of the disease also occurs in them when but a few days old, and very possibly even at the time of birth. Symptoms.—The symptoms of hydi’ocele are tolerably evident. The disease begins with a degree of swelling and weight about the testis : the swelling may at first be soft, but after a while becomes hard and tense; or it may be so from the commencement. Fig. 901.—Uoulile liydrocele con.strieted ojjposite external abdominal ring and this simulating inguinal hernia. broad below: it is smooth and uniformly tense and hard ; it usually fluctuates distinctly, but Juaf^iJiuuuc uiio/ii i/iJioj 7 close to the external ring, and drags over the penis, causing that organ to lu* buried in it, so as to interfere with micturition. Gibbon the historian had an . 1 1 • 1 1 .1 1... rn; /-.-fF civ/unnrt.s nf flniil eiK eiK