EXCISION OF JOINTS. 3^8 make it a useful member; but if the proximal one be stiffened, no amount of mobility in the distal phalanx can make it useful. In preserving these movements, it is necessary to be particularly careful of the sheaths of the tendons. If they be in any way opened or injured, it will generally be found either that the tendon sloughs, or that it becomes adherent to its sheath in such a Avay that all movement is lost, or at least greatly impaired. The only phalanx that can be excised with advantage is the distal one. It often happens, in the destructive disorganization w'hich results fi’om whitlow, that this necroses ; Avhen, instead of amputating the end of the finger, it may be removed by an incision on its palmar aspect. Disease of the phalangeal articulations usually leads to amputation of the affected finger. The rules for performing these various operations have already been laid down at pp. 88 et seq., Vol. I., to which I must refer the reader. Resection of the Metacarpal Bone, either of the thumb or index finger, without the removal of the corresponding digit, is occasionally required, more particularly in cases of injury; it may readily be done by making a longitudinal incision over the dorsal aspect of the bone to be removed, carefully detaching it from surrounding parts by keeping the edge of the knife close against the bone, avoiding the tendons, and then either disarticulating, or (what is pre- ferable) cutting across the neck of the carpal end of the bone, turning it out, i and separating it from any distal attachments which it may retain. After the . removal of the metacarpal bone of the index finger in this w^ay, but little de- ^ formity results, and a very useful hand will be left, more particularly in children, on whom I have more than once had occasion to practise this partial resection with success. If the periosteum be saved, the bone may be to some extent re- produced, but in order to obtain this result it is necessary to keep the finger drawn forwards by an elastic extending apparatus, to prevent the first phalanx ; from being jDulled back on to the carpus % the muscles attached to it. ' CONSERVATIVE SURGERY OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. J In all conservative operations that are practised on the lower extremity, it i is of essential importance that a good basis of support, of sufficient length and ! stability, be left to the body. These operations differ thus in some important i respects from those that are practised on the upper extremity. In the latter, | the preservation of the hand, even though in a mutilated condition, is the i thing at which the Surgeon aims ; and, provided this be attained, it matters comparatively little how much the arm may be shortened or impaired in power. In the lower extremity, however, strength, length, and solidity are essential to { the patient’s comfort and utility, and unless these can be secured, his interest j are better served by the removal of the limb, and the adaptation of some arti- ficial contrivance, than by leaving a shortened, w'asted, and crippled member, which is unequal to support the weight of the body. Hip-joint.—Excision of the head of the thigh-bone has of late years been a good deal practised in some cases of hip-joint disease. This operation may, however, most conveniently be considered in connection with that affection (Chapter LI I.). Knee.—Excision of the knee-joint was originally performed at the close of the last century by Park, Filkiu, and the Moreaiis, but it fell into disfavour