455 DIAGJOSIS OF IIIP-JOINT DISEASE. limb, even under the most judicious treatment, will be left considerably shortened, weakened, wasted, and more or less adducted, with the knee carried somewhat forwards, as well as inwards, and the patient walking often most imperfectly and with great difficulty on the point of his toes. Of the 8o cases of cure "from the lIip-LIosi)ital verified by the committee, G9 are described as “good cures,” 11 as “moderately good,” and 3 as “cures with considerable lameness.” Diagnosis.—In maldng the diagnosis of coxalgia, care must be taken not to confound it in its early stages Avith an ordinary attack of rheumatism, a mistake that not unfrequently happens. The alteration in the shape and position of the limb, the obliteration of the fold of the nates, and the limita- tion of the pain to one joint, Avill usually prcA^ent the Surgeon from falling into this error. With disease of the Tciiee, care must be taken not to confound hip-disease, in consequence of the pain in the early stages being commonly referred to the former joint ; here the absence of any positive sign of disease about the knee, and the existence of all the signs of disease in the hip that have already been noticed, Avill enable the Smgeon to diagnose the true seat of the affection. Lateral curvature of the spine, accompanied by neuralgic tenderness in the hip, occasionally gives rise to apparent shortening of the limb with pain and rigidity ; but in these cases the existence of the spinal affection, the superficial natime of the pain, and the absence of increase of suffering Avhen the joint is firmly compressed, or of painful startings at night, will indicate the true nature of the affection. Abscess may occasionally, though rarely, form in the vicinity of the hip without that joint being diseased. Should this take place towards the anterior aspect of the articu- lation under the pectineus muscle, it may, by its pressure upon the obturator nerve, occasion pain in the thigh and knee, as in those cases in Avhich the articulation is affected ; here, however, the sound state of the joint at its posterior and outer part, the absence of all obliquity of the pehds, and of the other signs of the true hip-disease, will enable the diagnosis to be effected. The diagnosis from sacro-iliac disease has been described at p. 438. In infants infammation of the glands in the groin may simulate hip-disease, as the child flexes and adducts the limb, and screams at any forcible attempt at extension. It can be distinguished from hip-disease by feeling the glands if the child be not too fat, and by observing that the thigh can be completely flexed and freely rotated Avithout causing signs of pain. Acute hip-disease may be mistaken for Peritgphlitis. The child lies with the thigh flexed oil the abdomen, and complains acutely when the right groin is pressed. The diagnosis is easily effected by anassthetizing the patient Avhen manipulations of the parts Avill decide the precise seat of the inflammation. It may be taken as a general rule that if the thigh can be flexed to a right angle Avithout any movement of the pelvis, perceptible to the hand placed on the anterior superior spine and the neighbouring part of the crest, and if Avhilc in that position AA’ith the knee flexed, the femur can be abducted and rotated outwards till the heel is OA'er the sound thigh, there is no disease of the hip. 1’hi.s moA-einent is so readily made in young children that it is an easy mode of excluding hip-disease, though of course if the movement is impossible, it does not prove its presence, as limitation of movement may be due to causes out- side the joint. 'J'itKAT.AiKNT,—Thc treatment of disease of the hip must bo conducted Avith