950 UJUmRY CALCULUS AND LJTJfOTOAfY, his diet slionld be properly reo-ulatcd, hut not too low ; the pain should be lessened by tlie administration of o])iates or henbane, and the bowels properly relieved. On the day preceding the 0])eration, a dose of castor-oil or some other aperient should be administered ; and on the morning of the operation the rectum must be emptied by means of an enema. Lateral Operation.—All the urijie contained in the bla'dder having been drawn off, that organ should be filled by the injection of about six or eight ounces of tepid water, in order to steady it and to facilitate the seizure and extraction of the stone. After chloroform has been administered, the Surgeon should introduce a full-sized staff, which he uses as a sound, in order to feel for the calculus. If he detects it, he proceeds with the operation ; if he cannot detect it, it is usually recommended that he should withdraw the staff and introduce a sound, with which he examines the bladder ; and, in the event of his still failing to discover the presence of the stone, the operation must be deferred, for it is an imperative rule in surgery that lithotomy should never be performed unless the stone ciln be felt at the time when the patient is actually on the table. It is, however, safer not to proceed with the operation unless the stone can be felt with the staff; lest the point of this, though apparently in the bladder, be actually engaged in a false Lateral Lithotomy. passage. 1 he stone, then, having been felt, the patient is to be firmly tied up. This is done by making a clove-hitch on the tape, and passing it round the wrist, after which the ends of the tape are passed round the instep and hand in a figure-of-8, as in Fig. 851. Some Surgeons prefer leather anklets, which are attached to collai’S round the wrists by hooks ; but these take longer to apply, and possess no par- ticular advantage over the tapes. The patient is now brought to the end of the table, so that his nates project beyond it, where he is to be securely held on each side by an assistant, who grasps the foot in his hand, places the patient’s knee under his arm, and draws the limb well aside, so that the perimeum may be fairly exposed. It is desirable that the periumum be thus fully exposed to the Surgeon. In a patient, however, on whom I once operated, this could not be done, owing to the left hip being stiffened by clu’onic rheumatic arthritis ; but I did not experience any particular difficulty in the operation, though somewhat inconvenienced by the position of the limb. The Surgeon then, seating himself before the patient, shaves the perimeum—if this have not already been done—and introduces his finger into the rectum. This is done with three objects, first, to ascertain the depth of the perinmum by feeling for the apex of the prostate ; secondly, to make sure that the rectum is empty : and thirdly, to cause a contraction of the gut, which will keep it out of the way during the first incision. He then gives the staff into the charge of a trusty