DANGERS IN LITIIOTIUTY. 1007 fii instruments should therefore be oiled with carbolized oil and washed in I carbolic lotion before being used, and the water used to wash out the bladder 'Should contain some antiseptic. There is, however, another Avay in Avhich I decomposition may reach the bladder. As before stated the mechanical irritation of the operation sets up some catarrh of the bladder and of the '.urethra also. The thick mucus secreted in consequence of this adheres to the mucous membrane of the urethra so that this canal, instead of being washed clean by the urine at each act of micturition, always contains a ‘Stagnant or partially stagnant layer of mucus down Avhich decomposition may extend to the bladder. It is not sufRcient therefore merely to carbolize the instruments and to use antiseptic solutions in the evacua- tor ; the end of the penis should be constantly covered with a strip of lint soaked in glycerine and carbolic acid. In spite of all precautions, -however, decomposition will often take place, and then the bladder must be washed out twice a day with an antiseptic solution. The mechanical dn'itation caused by so doing is of little importance when compared with the .dangers of a septic accumulation in the bladder. Atony of the Bladder is one of the most dangerous conditions that can toccur in lithotrity. This state of thing’s happens usually in old people, in \whoni the urinary organs may appear to be in a peculiarly quiet and favour- .:able condition before the operation, the patient being able to hold his urine •for six or eight hours, and to bear the injection of ten or twelve ounces of -fluid. In these circumstances, the Surgeon should be upon his guard ; for the danger of this condition is, that the bladder does not possess sufficient contractile power to expel its contents. These consequently accumulate in the lower fundus, and irritate the mucous membrane ; and thus the founda- •tiou may be laid for fatal cystitis, which in these cases always assumes a septic itype. The atony of the bladder appears to arise partly from that natural want of eexpulsive poiver which is not iiufrequent in old people, and partly from a kind tof paralysis of the organ, induced by the contact of the instruments, especially fter long sittings. Such patients usually die of suppurative inflammation of tthe kidney. Atony of the bladder is not so serious a complication in the operation at a ['‘single sitting, although it necessitates the careful washing out of the bladder ."or some time afterwards to prevent the risk of a septic accumulation. In the operation by repeated sittings atony was much more serious, and it was essential that the Surgeon should rid the patient of the fragments he could not expel by washing out the bladder ; but it was usually safer to get the patient in as good a condition as possible, and then cut him by the median operation. This I once did in an interesting case under my care at the Hospital; the patient, an old man, had been lithotrized by a Surgeon out of doors a few weeks before admission, but no fragments had passed ; on sounding him, I tfound a moderate-sized calculus, with what appeared to be a large mass of 5 Hoft concretion, of the nature of which I was not aware until after its removal; 6 the patient having concealed the fact of his having been lithotrized. On cutting him in the usual way, I removed a lithic acid calculus about as large las a pigeon’s egg, and a handful of fragments of another calculus of the same composition, which had been crusted over and matted together by phosphatic Q deposit. The patient made a very good recovery. i