NEURALGIA—OPERATIVE TREATMENT. 25 orbit, and appears on the face through the infra-orbital foramen. The nerve lias been divided as it leaves the foramen, in the canal, and in the spheno- maxillar}^ fossa. The situation of the infra-orbital foramen is found by draw- ing a line from the supra-orbital notch to the interval between the two bicuspid teeth of the lower jaw. This line crosses the infra-orbital foramen, and if prolonged will show the position also of the mental foramen. The infra-orbital foramen is situated about half an inch below the lower margin of the orbit. The nerve lies rather deeply, but can be stretched subcutane- ously in the same way as the supra-orbital, by puncturing the skin with a tenotome and grappling for the nerve with a blunt hook, the point of which is made to scrape along the bone below the foramen. When stretching it, the upper-lip and cheek must be drawn forcibly doAvnAvards. Subcutaneous section can be done in the same situation with a tenotome. To expose the nerve a curved incision, arranged so as to fall into the lines of the face, and about one inch in length, should be made with its mid-point over the foramen. After dividing the skin the levator labii superioris must be cut through, and the nerA'e then comes into view, and when the bleeding has been aiTested, can be exposed clearly and stretched or a piece cut out. This operation, however, can be of little use when the teeth are the seat of the neuralgic pain, as the anterior dental nerve is not affected by it. To divide this, it is recommended by Malgaigne to make the incision parallel to the margin of the orbit and immediately below it. A few fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum are cut through, the origin of the levator labii superioris tmmed doAvn and the nerve thus exposed at the foramen. The palpebral ligament is then separated from the margin of the orbit, and pushed upwards Avith the fat and the eyeball so as to expose the floor of the orbit. The nerve is next cut through as it lies in the canal in the floor of the orbit, Avith a strong tenotome, which is made to penetrate the antrum, and the terminal branch being seized in a pair of forceps at the infra-orbital foramen, it is forcibly dragged out of the canal by which the anterior dental branches are ruptured. The free part is then cut off. This operation is apt to be followed by suppuration in the antrum and orbit. Langenbeck and Hiiter have recommended that instead of opening up the orbit, the nerve should be divided subcutaneously just before it enters the canal. To do this a puncture is made in the skin immediately beloAV the outer commissure of the lids, and a blunt tenotome is pushed backAvards and downwards till its point is felt to be in the spheno-maxillary fissure. The nerve is then puUed forcibly where it has been exposed at the infra-orbital foramen, while the tenotome is made to shave along the maxiUaiy border of the fissure. As soon as the trunk is divided, it AA'ill pull out of the canal. Lastly, Bruns, Lucke, Lessen, and others, have exposed and divided the nen'e in the spheno-maxillary fossa. In order to do this, an incision is com- menced just behind the middle of the outer margin of the orbit, and carried doAvnwards to a point opposite the last upper molar. From the upper end of this another is carried backAvards to the root of the zygoma. The malar bone and zygoma are cut through, and the arch turned doAvu with the massetcr attached. The fat Ixjneath is then pushed back, and if necessary some of the fibres of the temporal muscle Avhich are inserted into the posterior part of the coronoid process of the jaAV are divided. The posterior part of the superior maxilla is then recognized and foIloAved upAvards and backAvards to tlic spheuo- maxillary fossa. The ueiwe is then raised Avith a blunt hook and divided, as