1077 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRUOuA. !i much reduess iiiid oedema of the integuments, and general swelling of the an, the glans in these cases often assuming a turgid aspect and a dull jk-red colour. This condition is a very serious one, as it may lead to one two consequences, or both may ensue, viz., inflammation and suppuration the inguinal glands, or blood-poisoning. It is the latter result that gives : to the most serious constitutional effects in gonorrhoea, closely resembling less severe forms of pyjemia. Uhordee, or painful erection of the penis, with twist of the organ, coming at night, is often a most distressing and troublesome symptom. It is ally best relieved by the application of cold to the part, by the administra- 1 at bed-time of a pill composed of gr. j of opium with gr. v of camphor, •ord recommends a suppository of camphor and opium, gr. x of camphor, I gr. j of the watery extract of opium, to be introduced into the rectum an u- before bed-time, as the best means of removing the tendency to chordee. ,11 doses of bromide of potassium are sometimes of use. Lcute Prostatitis, presenting all the symptoms described on p. 1053, .1 in rare cases terminating in abscess, is an occasional compheation. It >st be treated as there described. Jliroiuc Prostatitis is rather a sequel of gonoirhoea than a complication. ! symptoms and treatment have been already described (p. 1054). Inflammation of the Neck of the Bladder with Strangury and rsuria is not an uncommon complication. It arises from exposure to cold ■wet during a clap, and occasionally from the use of too strong injections, e discharge may lessen when the symptoms of the deeper inflammation set AYhen the neck of the bladder only is inflamed, the urine remains acid, 1 contains but a slight excess of mucus. Frequency of micturition, often eessive, and accompanied by the most severe pain, forms the most prominent nptom. Pus and blood may escape with the last few drops of urine. It idistinguished fi'om acute prostatitis by rectal examination, when absence j prostatic swelling and tenderness will be recognized. The inflammation in ; ny cases is less acute, especially when the inflammation comes on at three ‘four weeks after the commencement of the clap. In the acute form leeches . the perinaeura, hot baths and fomentations, and full doses of Dover’s powder, of henbane and potash, will afford much relief. If the pain is very severe, morphia-suppository must be inserted into the rectum. In more chronic es the administration of the percldoride of iron, with belladonna-suppositories, 1 be beneficial. Cystitis, of an acute character, may occur by the extension of the ■dhral inflammation. The urethral discharge diminishes as the symptoms ' Cystitis come on, or ceases, just as in epididymitis ; the patient is seized ;;h intolerable and frequent dysuria, strangury, and general febrile distimb- ce. The urine becomes loaded with muco-pus, and may be fetid and saline. The condition is perilous. There is danger to life if the constitu- iu be broken, and there is always danger of prolonged or possibly intractable wacute cystitis. Indeed, I believe that many of the cases of chronic sub- 'ite cystitis, with muco-pus in the urine, and perhaps atony of the bladder ■mrring in middle-aged men, may be traced back to the influence of a morrheea contracted in early life. Tdie Trealmml of this condition consists in the employment of belladonna opiate suppositories ; the frequent use of warm hip-baths ; the application