VARICOSE VEIES—SYMPTOMS AND EFFECTS. 6i valves are always found to be insufficient; sometimes they have disappeared altogether, and in other cases they form small ridges or bands projecting from the wall. When the vein has been cut up it will be seen that in some of the pouch-like dilatations the wall has become greatly thinned. The inner coat of the vein appears smooth and but little altered, beyond being often marked by longitudinal strim. When the vein is subcutaneous, the small branches entering the trunk from the skin are often dilated, and this condition may sometimes be traced here and there into the cutis, which is thinned over the dilated vessel. In the wall of the vein and in its sheath small dilated veins belonging to the vasa vasorum are very commonly observed. Microscopic examination shows that the thickening of the vein is chiefly due to a development of dense fibroid tissue in the middle coat. The muscu- lar fibre-cells are somewhat increased in number, but are separated widely from each other by the fibroid tissue. The outer coat is also thickened, the inner shows but little change. In the thinned pouches, the middle coat is atrophied, and may have completely disappeared. Appearances and SvAiPTOiis.—Yaricose veins are tortuous, dilated, and sacculated ; they are serpentine in their course, and feel thick under the finger. When superficial, the disease is often limited to one of the larger venous trunks, the smaller branches not being engaged. This we commonly see in the internal saphena. The pouch-like dilatations may often approach very closely to the surface, the skin being thinned over them, and the blue tint of the skin being readily perceptible. When the patient is erect, the vein becomes more prominent and tense. In other cases the small superficial veins are affected, appearing in the skin as a close network of a purplish-blue colour, causing much discoloration of the parts. Both sets of vessels may be implicated. In consequence of the incompetence of the valves an impulse can often be felt even below the knee when the patient is made to cough. Yarix of the deep veins is less common, as the vessels are better supported by the surrounding parts. They give rise to no appearance which can be recognized during life. Yai'icose veins cause a sense of tension and weight, often with considerable smarting or pricking pain in the parts from which they return the blood. Sometimes they may cause numbness, difficulty of movement, or even some loss of power in the affected limb. These symptoms are aggravated by exertion. In deep-seated varix, these symptoms are often very marked. Progress and Effects.—Yaricose veins never undergo spontaneous cure ; when once formed, the condition is permanent, unless the vessel become plugged by coagulum, when it may be obliterated. The current of blood is then diverted into other channels, and as a rule these in their turn become varicose. The main evil that results from varicose veins in the legs, is the change that is slowly induced in the nutrition of the skin, and subcutaneous areolar tissue, by the retardation of the circulation, and the interference with the due return of blood. The parts from which the vein derives its blood are often slightly oedematons. After a time the subcutaneous fat becomes indurated, and the skin loses its elasticity, becomes rigid and often darkly pigmented in places. In consequence of the imperfect nutrition of the parts ulceration frequently takes place, especially below the middle of the leg. The ulcer has a great tendency to assume the chronic or callous form. Chronic eczema is a frequent consequence of the congestion of the skin, caused by varicose veins. There is another accident that may occur as the result of