1076 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. of bearing, will huvc mncli effect upon the inflamed patch. He tlierelbio recommends the application of a very strong solution of nitrate of silver through the endoscope ; bnt equally satisfactory I’esults may be obtained by the nse of Gnyon’s injector (Fig. 010). This consists of a hollow bulbous sound perforated in the bulb, and fitted with a small syringe. The bulbous sound having been passed first up and down the urethra till the exact situation of the inflamed spot is found by the tenderness and slight cling before men- tioned, the perforated head is held fixed at the diseased spot, and a few drops of a solution of nitr.ate of silver (ten to twenty grains to the ounce of water) are injected. The patient should pass urine immediately before the injection and not again for some hours if possible. Berkeley Hill, who has had gi’eat experience of this mode of treatment, states that, if the patient keep quiet for some time after, no complications are likely to follow ; but neglect of theise precautions may be followed by swelled testicle or even perineal abscess. After the operation, a weak astringent injection must be used for a few days, and the passage of bougies for a short time after is usually necessary to complete the cure. Otis, of New York, is of opinion that every prolonged gleet is the result of a narrowing of the canal, and he recommends internal urethrotoniv as a cure—cutting the urethra up to its normal size by the method described under the treatment of stricture of the urethra. The operation is somewhat severe, and should never be had resort to till all other means have failed. The treatment of gleet may therefore be summed up as follows. The patient must be carefully examined, in order to detect, if possible, some con- stitutional condition, such as struma, gout, or rheumatism, which may serve as a guide to general treatment, diet, and use of stimulants. Change of air and sea-bathing are often of essential service. The orifice of the urethra must be examined for warty growths or suppurating follicles. If these are found, they may be touched with nitrate of silver. If they are not found, the electuary of cubebs and copaiba, or one composed of cubebs and the ses- quioxide of iron, may be administered with advantage, and the injections re- commended for the chronic stage of gonorrhoea may be persevered with. Should these fail, and should the olive-headed sound give distinct evidence of a tender spot, and perhaps a slight narrowing of the urethra, the passage of a full-sized metallic bougie every second or third day should be tried. If, after a fair trial, this fail also, injection of nitrate of silver by Guyon’s injector must next be had recourse to, followed by mild injections and the passage of bougies ; and, lastly, if everything else have failed, and a distinct narrowing of the canal be present, internal urethrotomy may be tried as a la.«t resource. COJIPLICATIONS OF GoNORRHCEA.—Gonori’licea, when acute or virulent, seldom runs its course without local complications of some kind, the result of the propagation of the inflammation to neighbouring parts, often of consider- able severity, and occasionally even hazardous to life ;—such as chordec, phimosis, sympathetic bubo, perineal abscess, irritability of the bladder, reten- tion of urine,' hmmorrhage from the urethra, &c. Many of these complications present no spQcial features, but require to be treated on general principles, without reference to their specific cause. Others demand more special manage- ment, and these we may briefly consider here. lufiammation of the Lymphatics of the Penis may occur, stretching alony the sides and dorsum of the penis in the form of hard thread-like line^.