520 DEFORMITIES. have been cimmcratcd ; tlie latter eaii l>e eflbcted only, if at all, l)y lon^^-con- tiimed eflbrts on the part of the 8urg-eoii, by psissive motion, frictions, sham- pooing, &c., aided by proijerly constructed apparatus. In ankylosis of the knee, after extension has been made, and the limb brought straight, the question arises as to whether mobility of the joint should be encouraged, or the limb kept straight and made stiff: The answer to this (|uestion will greatly depend on conditions of the muscles of the thigh. If the quadriceps extensor exhibits electric irritability, then, if the state'^of the joint admit it, motion may be attempted. If the muscle be insensible to the stimulus, then the joint had best be kept stiff. 3. Osseous Ankylosis of the Knee is not of very frequent occuiTence. It is usually the result of traumatic inflammation of the joint. If the limb be straight, no operation Avill be advisable ; if it be lent, so that the patient cannot put the foot to the ground, the only remedy will be an operation. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, in 1835, proposed an operation for restoring the straight position of the limb in cases of complete osseous ankylosis of the knee- joint with angular deformity. The proceeding consists in excising a wedge- shaped piece of the shaft of the femur above the condyles, iiot including the whole diameter of the bone, then fracturing the undivided portion, and so bringing the limb into a straight position. Birch, of New York, m 1844, modified this operation by saw- ing out a wedge-shaped portion, con- sisting of the condyles of the femur, the patella, and the head of the tibia. According to Gross, these two opera- tions have been done in all in 21 cases, of which 4 proved fatal by pymmia. In one ease, that of Reil, the femoral artery had to be tied for secondary hgemorrhage from the popliteal on the fifteenth day ; but the patient made an excellent recovery with a useful limb, Brainard of Chicago, in 1854, proposed a simple and less severe method than ' either of the above, for the remedying of angular osseous ankylosis of the knee. It consisted in drilling the femur subcutaneously and then fracturing the bone. This operation was first done by Pancoast in 1859, and since then has been successfully practised by Brainard, Gross, and others, who have extended it to subcutaneous perforation of the joint and to separation of the patella. The drill used for this operation consists of a steel shaft 4^ inches long, fitted with a solid and rounded handle (Fig. 637). The point is -^th of an inch in breadth, and has on each side an oblique groove with cutting edges, so that it acts as a gouge as well as a drill. The interior of the obliterated articulation is reached by making an incision about half an inch long on the outer side of the limb, at the line of junction between the condyles of the femur and the tibia. The drill is then worked through, until its end can be felt under the integuments on the opiDosite side of the limb. The instru- Fig. 637.—Drill for Aiikylosed Knee. Fig. 638.- -Drill for Ankylo.sed Joint.