588 DISEASES OF ‘THE JAWS AND Til El It APPENDAGES. end of this incision, and tlms to sever tiie connexion l^etween tlie su])erior maxilla and the malar bone. They are then to cut along the groove that has been traced horizontally with the saw, one blade cutting fi-om the Jiares alorn*- this : and lastly, the alveolus and hard palate have to be divided. This is Ixist done attei the extinction of one of the central incisors, by passing a naiTow- bladcd saw into the anterior nares and cutting down through the alveolus ; the remainder of the section being completed with the forceps. Or the pro- ^ cecding may be reversed, and the cut made from the mouth up towards the ' nasal cavity. Should the disease implicate chiefly the upper orbital and nasal i portions of the bone, leaving the cheek and roof of the mouth sound, another modification of the operation may be undertaken by carrying the knife from the nasal process down the side of the nose and from the nostril across the check, dissecting up the flap thus formed. The palpebral ligament must then be cut through, and the fat of the orbit pushed upwards and held on one side with a copper spatula, which at the same time protects the eye fi’om inj ury. The nasal process of the superior maxillary bone is then cut through from the lower and inner part of the orbit into the nose ; the saw is carried from the anterior nares across the superior maxilla above its alveolar process and from the outer end of this a perpendicular cut is carried upwards into the orbit towards its outer angle so as to extend backwards into the spheno-maxillary fissure. The cutting pliers are then carried along these lines of incision so as to loosen the bone completely and the detached portion is then lifted out by means of a curved periosteal elevator. 3. Complete Excision of the Upper Jaw.—The operation of excision of the whole of the upper jaw, together with the malar bone, for tumour of the antrum, was first proposed by Lizars in 1826 ; though Gensoul of Lyons was the first Surgeon by whom the operation was actually performed, in May, 1829. Since then, it has been repeatedly practised ,- and the names of Liston and of Fergusson are inseparably connected with it, for the skill with wliich they have devised, and the boldness with which they have earned out the various steps of its performance. The patient should be placed in a recumbent position with the head and ,j| shoulders well raised by pillows, opposite a good light. The Surgeon stands ( at first on the same side as the bone to be removed, but during the sawing he j will find it convenient to stand always on the right side, retmning to the left, < if that be the affected side, during the final stages of the operation. Hmmor- I rhage during the operation is one of the chief difficulties, not only on account | of the actual loss of blood that may take place, but from the risk of asphyxia | from the blood finding its way into the larynx. In order to prevent this I accident the throat must be frequently wiped out during the operation with | sponges fixed upon proper holders. Annandale has recommended that the | operation should be done with the patient’s head hanging over the end of the | table, so that any blood that runs backwards may accumulate in the upper ! part of the pharynx, whence it can be removed from time to time with a 1 sponge. This position, however, tends to aggravate the hfcmorrhage, and is I not to be recommended when the tumour is very vascular. It Avill often be I found useful to plug the posterior nares with a good-sized sponge passed I behind the soft palate in the way already dcscril)ed, before commencing | the operation. This tends to push the soft palate forwards, and may I embarrass the breathing. Should this happen, a large tube of some kind, I