DEFORMITIES OF THE 'FACE AND NECK-WRY-NECK. 501 is effected by the formation of vascnlar g-raimlation-tissuc between the cut ends, chiefly from the sheath and soft parts around ; that this undergoes gmdual development into fibrous tissue ; and that the tendon is actually lengthened and remains permanently so, by the formation of this new material, which eventually resembles the normal structure of tendon so closely that the microscope fails to detect any appreciable difference, and that it can be dis- tinguished only by its more translucent appearance from the old tendon. In fact, the gap is completely filled up. In cases of congenital malformation, the question frequently arises as to whether tenotomy should be performed in early infancy, or delayed to a more advanced age. As a general rule I think that, if operation will certainly be necessary, it should not be delayed ; it is not more difficult at an early period of life than at any other, no danger attends it, and when performed during infancy, there is a far less chance of the deformity being permanent, than if the operation be delayed for some years. But it must be remembered that many slight defonnities and contractions in infants may be removed without operation, by attention to proper mechanical and hygienic means. The Surgeon should not, therefore, be too ready to operate in slight cases at tender ages. DEFORMITIES AFFECTINa THE FACE AND NECK. "Wry-neck.—Wiy-neck, Torticollis or Caput Obstipum, arises from spasm of one of the sterno-mastoid muscles ; the head being di-awn to the affected side. On close examination in wry-neck, it will be found that there is a triple displacement of the head, which is drawn downwards, rotated fr’om the affected side, and inclined laterally towards it. The features lose their symmetiy. The half of the face, and even of the head, on the affected side, becomes less perfectly developed; and the true lines of the eyebrows, eyes, and mouth become displaced and lowered. In torticollis, the affected sterno-cleido-mastoid will be found hard, defined, and shortened ; sometimes both divisions of the muscle are equally tense, standing out in strong relief, so as to look almost like two distinct muscles. In other cases, one division, and then most usually the sternal, is chiefly affected. After a time the cervical vertebrge participate in and maintain the displacement, becoming rotated on their axes and curved. Eventually the whole spinal column shares in the displacement, and lateral curvature sets in. The deeper muscles also become shortened, and the anterior margin and clavi- cular attachment of the trapezius will often bo found tense and preternaturally defined. Causes.—Wiy-neck appears to be occasionally congenital: more frequently it is acquired, coming on in childhood after measles or scarlatina, usually as a consequence of inflamed cervical glands, and is then due to the position instinctively assumed by the head in order to relax muscular tension on the inflamed side of the neck. It not unfrequently commences with an ordinary stiff neck from cold. In other cases, again, it is purely spasmodic, the tension of the muscle varying at different times, disappearing when the child is anaesthetized, and being overcome by gentle traction. In these cases the spinal arxessoiy nerve is ju’obably at fault, and it is owing to irritation of it that the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles take on a spasmodic action. In