B CEO OPERA TION—BLEPllA ROPLASTY. 605 side of the tumour. The incision 1, 4, 3, is then can’ied outwards to 5, 8, 7, so that the Avhole distance from 1 to 7 is exactly three times that of the base of the raw surface; a second triangle, 5, 0, 7, is then made, having its base on the outer third of this horizontal incision. The two triangles must be of equal size, and the integuments are dissected oft 5, 0, 7. There are thus two raw surfaces to be covered in. This is done by dissecting up carefully the flaps 1, 0, 6, and 2, 3, 7. AYhcn this is done, the points 1 and 3, and 5 and 7, are respectively drawn together, each by one suture, and the two raw triangular surfaces are thus covered in. Plastic operations of various kinds are frequently performed on the eyelids. Blepharoplasty, or the operation by which the eyelids are repaired, is occasionally required for loss of substance—the result of wounds, cicatrices, or operations. It is less satisfactory in its results than most of the other plastic Fig. CS7.—Lines of Incision in Burow's Opemtion. Method. procedures about the face; yet it may, in some cases, improve materially the patient’s appearance. When the upper eyelid requires repair, the flap is taken from the forehead; when it is the lower lid, from the cheek or temple. This operation may be performed by the gliding method, by twisting a flap into its new situation, or by transplantation of a piece of skin. By the gliding method, a triangular flap is cut and partially detached (Fig. G88, a), and then drawn gently forwards until it corresponds to and fills up the gap that requires repair, when it is there fixed by a few points of sutiu’e. When the twisting method is employed, an oval flap is detached (Fig. 688, &), except its pedicle, and twisted down, to be planted on the raw surface. Occasionally neither of these methods is applicable; and, then the procedure, that I successfully adopted in a case of which the annexed cut (Fig. 689) is a representation, may lie followed. In this case, which was that of a lady who had received a severe mutilation of the face by the explosion of a ginger-beer bottle, there was a deep and hard cicatrix across the lower eyelid, causing depression and eversion of its outer portion, and adhesion of the inner part to the ball of the eye. After dividing the adhesions and removing the cicatrix, I made a semilunar incision so as to dissect up the eyelid, and then fixed it by points of suture in its new situation, when it became firmly adherent (Fig. 600), and scarce any apparent deformity was left. In another very similar case, in which a girl had been l)itten through the lower eyelid by a dog, a similar o|)eratif)n was practised with equally good results. Iii both these cases, the eyeball, having been injured, had become atrophied, with opacity of