620 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. the upper suture mid tlie uose. Ou the third day tlie upper suture should be taken out, but tlie lower one may be left in for a day or two longer, when it and the one through the mucous membrane may be remo\'ed together, unless the latter have already cut its way out. If silver wire sutures Ix; used, they may be left in for six or seven days without ]jroducing irritation. The lijj must then be supported for a few days with a sti’ip of plaster. In the case of double hare-lip the same plan is to be adopted, first on one side, then on the other ; but here, as the gaps are wider, and the tension, more particularly when the intermaxillary prominence is very projecting, is apt to be considerable, it is necessary to support the cheeks, and thus to prevent undue traction on the stitches, by means. of the cheek-compressor (Fig. 700) or properly applied plaster. In this way all risk of the stitches cutting out before union is completed is avoided ; an excellent and solid union Avill speedily be obtained even in cases of double hare-lip, with some intermaxillary projec- tion and fissured palate. The operation occasionally fails. The j)robability of the occurrence of such an untoward event is, however, greatly diminished by the use of the cheek- compressor. It may, however, happen either in consequence of the child’s health being in an unsatisfactory state, so as to prevent imion by the firet intention ; or in consequence of the pins having been withdrawn too early, before secure cohesion has been effected. In such circumstances as these, an attempt might be made to unite the granulating edges by the re-introduc- tion of the pins or sutures, and by firmly fixing the lip by means of the cheek- compressor or plaster applied as above described. Such attempts, however, rarely succeed ; should they not do so, it Avill usually be found most prudent to wait at least a month before taking any further steps, and then to pare the edges afresh and repeat the original operation. Congenital Transverse Fissures of the Cueeks, extending from the angle of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter or up towards the malar bone, are occasionally met with, and have been specially described by Klein and Kicati. Their mode of origin has been already referred to (p. GlI). In these malformations, which are of extremely rare occurrence, the ear on the affected side is imperfectly developed. As has been observed by Fergusson, the tragus is detached from the auricle, and is fixed to the cheek, where it forms a small lobulated appendage. The external ear generally is malformed, the helix being twisted and curled inwards. These malformations require to be treated on exactly the same principles, and with the same attention to details, as hare-lip ; union between the pared edges being effected by means of hare-lip pins and the twisted suture. Cheiloplasty.—Simple plastic operations are commonly practised on the lower lip for the removal of epithelioma, by cutting out a V'Shaped piece of the lip, including the whole diseased structure, and then bringing together the opposite sides of the incision by hare-lip pins. These operations have already been described and figured at p. 559, Yol. II. We shall consider here those cases in which it becomes necessary to repair more or less extensive loss of substance in the labial structures. The restoration of a portion of the lip that has been destroyed by accident or disease, is not so readily effected as that of the nose ; yet a good deal may be done to remove the deformity, dbc plan originally iTitroduced by Chopart consists, when it is the loNver lip that is deformed, in carrying an incision each side of the diseased portion of the lip I \ . I ■ I- ( « i I