STRUGTUItAL CHANGES IN BONE. 318 These operations arc, however, not very promising, as tlierc are few forms of malignant tumour in which the disease returns more rapidly in a secondary manner than in that of tlie bones. The rapidity of recurrence will, however, gi’eatly depend upon the form of the disease, or the time when amputaiion is performed, and on the part Avhere it is practised. Amputation should always, if possible,be performed in the earliest stage of the disease, before general infection has set in. If the glands be enlarged, and cachexy be already present, little can be expected in the way of ultimate cure : yet I have known cases in which, even in these unfavourable circumstances, the patients have made a good recovery, life having been prolonged for months. The selection of the line at which amputation should be performed is of great importance, and the result will materially depend upon the judgment displayed in this. If the limb be removed in the continuity of the diseased bone, there must necessarily be a great probability of a very rapid return of the growth in the stump ; and this probability amounts to a certainty in those cases in which, the disease being central, the whole of the medullary canal and cancellous structure are infiltrated by the tumour. In cases of peripheral disease, this return in the same bone may not take place ; indeed, | I have seen one case of the kind in which the disease affected the lower end of t the tibia, and that bone was amputated in its upper third ; in this case, after a lapse of some months, fatal recurrence of the disease took place in the pelvic bones, but not in the stump. As, however, the peripheral is more rare than the central form of the disease, and as there are no means of ascertaining the precise kind before removal, the rule, I think, should be definite to amputate at or above the next joint—at the hip-joint, in malignant disease of the femur ; in the thigh, for that of the bones of the leg ; and at the shoulder, when the upper arm is affected. When the lower part of the femur, however, is involved, amputation through the trochanters may sometimes be substituted for disarticulation at the hip-joint, the latter operation being so formidable and so fatal that the Surgeon may think it advisable not to subject the patient to so serious a risk ; or amputation might be performed through the trochanters, and the head of the bone then resected. In this way the severity of the operation and the extent of wound would be lessened, whilst the whole of the diseased bone would be removed. In cases of myeloid sarcoma it is not usually necessary to remove the whole bone, as the disease almost invariably begins in the articular ends, and very rarely extends far into the medullary canal. In some forms of malignant bone-disease, however, the muscles inserted into the affected bone become speedily contaminated, and this contamination may spread widely through the substance or along the sheath of any particular muscle. Hence I think the rule in these cases should be to amputate not only above the diseased bone, but, if practicable, above the origins of the muscles in the neighbourhood of the disease : thus, if there be a malignant tumour of the bones of the forearm, amputation should be done not only above the elbow-joint but above the humeral attachments of the muscles of the forearm. The propriety of excision of some bones, as of those of the face, in this disease, must depend on whether the morbid growth is limited to the structures that can be excised. This operation can rarely be advantageously practised in malignant tumours, there being in general too great an implication of the soft structmes in the neighbourhood to justify it.