'I iMrEiiFonATi-: hvmke axd its thkatment. 1189 > jT gonorrha'al or syphilitic uiscasc, tbrniing at last irregular ])endulous masses which require extirpation, either by knife or scissors. I have had (ccasion also to remore a large Km'us by ligature from this situation ; and, in fact, any growth that occurs in the skin or cellular tissue may be met with iiere. Cystic Tu^iouus are nor unfrequently met with in the labia, and may v;ometimes resemble rather closely the ordinary forms of inguinal hernia ; with Avhich, howcA'cr, their incompressibility, irreducibility, and the absence of impulse on coughing, will pn-evenb their being confounded. These cysts, which require removal by a little simple dissection, usually contain a dark, turbid, or >sanguiueous fluid, and sometimes atheromatous matter. Tolerably free haemor- rhage may follow their removal, the vascular tissues of the labia being cub into. This may, however, always be arrested by Paquelin’s or some other form of cautery, or by firm pressure by means of a T-bandage. Occasionally they project from the inside of the vagina, and then require removal by dissection or ligature, as can be best practised. Imperforate Vagixa is occasionally met Avith in young children, and occasions a good deal of anxiety to the parents. This condition, hoAvever, may : always be very readily and speedily removed by tearing open the canal, as it were, l)y dragging open its Avails in opposite directions, and breaking through the adhesions, Avhich are little more than epithelial, Avith the thumb-nail, a blunt probe, or the handle of a scalpel, and then introducing a small pledget of greased lint. Imperforate Hymen is occasionally met Avith, causing great inconvenience, and even danger, by the retention of the menstrual secretion, which may accumulate to an immense extent, and become converted into a kind of choco- late-coloured grumous fluid. This malformation does not usually attract attention until the age of seventeen or eighteen. When the menstrual flux has, however, not appeared, notAvithstanding periodical constitutional disturb- ance, an examination is instituted, and the cause of the obstruction is revealed. In these cases the hymen, which forms a dense elastic membrane, is pushed tlown betAveen the labia, and the uterus distended by accumulated secretion may generally be felt as an elastic fluctuating tumour above the pubes, reaching sometimes nearly to the umbilicus. 'I'he Treatment consists in puncturing tlie hymen Avith a trochar, enlarging the opening Avith a probe-pointed bistoury, and thus discharging the retained fluid, Avhich may be in very large quantity. This operation, unless performed with antiseptic precautions, is l)y no means free Ironi risk. Before any incision Ik* made, the parts should be thoroughly cleansed Avith a 5 per cent, solution (»f carbolic acid. The cavity left after complete evacuation of the fluid must be Avell Avashed out Avith carlxilic lotion or. a strong solution of iodine, after which a pad of iodolorm gauze, or other eflieient antiseptic dressing should be applied and retained in place by a "T-bandage. Daily syringing, Avith renewal of the dressing, is to be practised at first until all danger of septic mischief be OA'er, the urine meanwhile being draAvn olf as re(|nired by means of the catheter. In opening the membrane, it need scarcely be said that wound of the urethra should be carefully guarded against ; and, Avith care, that canal may always be aA'oided. I have, however, seen one case in Avhich it had l)ceii slit up by the Surgeon Avho punctured the membrane. Occasionally the Surgeon’s advice may be sought Iw married Avomcn, for a