390 EXCISION OF JOINTS. hope of cure. This may he obtained by the application of some rigid apparatus, as the plaster of Paris or starched bandage, reaching from the fold of the nates to the toes, the patient being allowed to move about on crutches, without putting the foot to the ground. The most efficient apparatus is, however, the simple and ingenious splint, invented by H. 0. Thomas, of Liverpool (Figs. 548, 549). Besides giving the most perfect rest, this has the great advantage of leaving the joint exposed so that the effects of the treatment can be observed, and, at the same time, it enables the patient to move about, as in Fig. 549. The apparatus consists of a well-padded iron ring, covered with leather, from which an iron rod extends downwards on each side of the leg, terminating in a second ring at the lower end. Attached to one of the iron rods is a piece of soft leather, which, when the splint is applied, may be brought up behind the limb, and secured to the other rod by being folded over it and fixed with strong pins. This leather is not essential, and in many cases the limb can he better fixed without it. The foot-piece represented in Figs. 548, 549, is required only when the splint is used to fix the limb after excision of the joint; in other cases it is not only useless, but injurious. In ordinary cases in which the limb is tolerably straight the apparatus is thus applied :—The splint must be of such a length as to extend from three to four inches beyond the foot. Two strips of strong strapping are prepared of sufficient length to reach from immediately below the head of the tibia to one inch beyond the sole of the foot; to one end of each of these a stout tape is firmly sewn. The strips are then applied to the sides of the leg, the tapes being below. To give additional security some narrower strips must be wound spirally round the leg, care being taken not to apply them circularly, or with sufficient tightness to constrict the limb. Over all, a flannel-bandage may be applied from the ankle to the upper end of the tibia. The strips of plaster thus applied, if of proper quality, should retain their hold without shifting for many weeks. The limb is then passed through the upper ring of the splint, which is pushed upwards till it gets a firm bearing against the tuberosity of the ischium. The splint is then secured in position by tying the tapes attached to the strips of plaster to the ring at the bottom of the splint. It is not intended in so doing to forcibly extend the limb, but merely to retain the splint steadily in position. If the patient is to walk on the splint it is better to have a bar fixed across between the two vertical rods, about one inch above their lower ends to which the tapes can be made fast, otherwise they are quickly worn through. The limb being thus fixed longitudinally, lateral and anterior posterior movements are prevented by two broad strips of plaster, about three feet long and three to five inches wide ; one to be applied to the middle of the thigh, and the other to the leg opposite the calf. The strip of plaster is first fixed to one of the lateral rods, then brought over or under the limb, and back to the same bar, the remainder of the strip being wound round, including both bars and the limb. The second strip is then applied in the same way, but is fixed to the opposite lateral rod. A broad strip of bandage or plaster is then applied behind the knee between the two lateral rods, so as to support the ham. This is not necessary if the leather is fixed to the splint, as in Fig. 548. Lastly, a flannel bandage is smoothly applied from the toes to the groin. If properly put up the apparatus should not require changing for some Aveeks ; the tapes may be tightened if they become loose, and the flannel bandage re-applied daily, but the strapping should not be touched. In j i