ACUTE INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS WITH ABSCESSES. 909 i is not found to be due to extravasation, altlioujrli liajinorrbages may exist ^ scattered through such a kidney. The yellow streaks in the pyramids aie [ found to be due to a similar condition of iutertubular cell-inhltration. Some- t times clots may be seen in the vessels of the pyramids. These are probably I secondary to the inflammation of the parts surrounding the vessels. As in |i the former variety, small round cells may be found in the tubules as Avell as Fig. S22.—Acute Interstitial Nephritis: Condition of Epithelium. Fig. 823.—A. Group of Alwcesses on Surface of Kidney, b. Vertical Section of the same. outside them. The epithelium is usually much swollen, and sometimes de- squamating and choking the tubules (Fig. 822), but this is only in those areas in which the interstitial inflammation is most advanced. In others it may appear almost healthy. In the pyramidal portion of the kidney many of the large tubes are found to have lost their epithelium by desquamation. This form of kidney merges into the diffuse variety, the solid yellowish spots before men- tioned representing points which, had the patient lived longer, might have softened into abscesses. Klebs, many years ago, described the presence of microscopic organisms in the suppurating kidney, but the means of observa- tion were at that time so imperfect that considerable doubt existed as to the correctness of the observation, more especially as he described a micrococcus subsequently developing a branching mycelium—a form of growth, the exist- ence of which to say the least was improbable. Later observations by Koch, with improved methods of staining, have clearly demonstrated the fact that, in every case of disseminated suppuration following on septic changes of the urine in the pelvis, colonies of micrococci are found scattered throughout the kidney, distending and obstructing the urinary tubules. These micrococci are similar to those found in putrid urine, and are believed to be the ferment to which the change is due. The abscesses of the kidney thus arising in acute suppurative nephitis must not be confounded with those seen in pyaemia. These are usually larger, are more distinctly wedge-shaped, and sometimes surrounded by a zone of hmmoiThage. They are always in the cortex, and the pyramids show no signs of disease. Pyelitis is absent, but, as before stated, it may be wanting, or feebly marked in cases of genuine inter- stitial nephritis, secondary to afl’ections of the bladder. Koch has, moreover, pointed out an important microscopic distinction. j\Iicrococci are found