6i6 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. Single Hare-lip.—llie operation for single hare-lip is performed in the following way. The child having been well pinned in a jack-towel that swathes it tightly, the Surgeon, sitting dowji, ])laces his feet on a stool so as to raise them ; and, covering his knees with a piece of mackintosh cloth, holds the child’s head firmly between them. Bleeding from the coronary artery of the lip may be prevented (Fig. 703), either by an assistant or the Surgeon grasping the lip between his forefinger and thumb, or by compressing the lip with the little contrivance here figured, which consists of ordinary ring-forceps converted into a compressor by having a vulcanized India-rubber ring sli])ped over the handles. This will be found to be invaluable in many operations about the face and jaws. The lower this ring is drawn down, the tighter will the forceps grip. The Surgeon first freely divides the frmnum and all membranous con- nections between the angle of the cleft and the gum of the u]3per jaw, and then, putting the lip on the stretch by seizing the extreme edge of the cleft with a pair of artery-forceps or a tenaculum, he pares the edges of the cleft by transfixion with a narrow-bladed bistomy, or fine scalpel, from above downwards, first on one side, then on the other ; taking care that the incisions unite neatly and cleanly above the upper angle of the fissure, which must be well cut out ; and that they extend sufficiently far outwards to cut away the rounded portion of the prolabium which forms the side of the base of the fissure. The incision on each side must be curved with the con- cavity towards the fissure (Fig. 708), so that by bringing the two curves into a straight line a slight projection of the prolabium at the point of. miion shall be produced If this be not done a notch will be left when the lip is healed. Care should be taken that enough is cut away ; there is more danger usually of taking too little than too much. Fine hare-lip pins, made of soft iron wire, with hardened points, should then be deeply introduced through the lip from one side of the fissure to the other. The pins should be entered at about a quarter of an inch from the pared edge on one side, and brought out at a corresponding point on the other ; care being taken that, though they are passed deeply, the mucous membrane is not transfixed : if it be, it will be doubled into the wound, and thus interfere "with union. Two pins are usually required ; if the child be some years old, and the fissure very long, three may be used. The lower pin should be introduced first underneath or through the cut coronary artery, in such a way that its pressure may stop the bleeding from this vessel, which is often rather free : in passing this pin, great care should be taken to bring the opposite sides of the fissure well into contact, so as to be on a level below, that no irregularity may be left in the prolabium. The twisted suture is then applied in the usual way (Fig. 704), first round the lower pin, and then round the upper one (separate threads, however, being used for each) ; and lastly, the two are united by a few cross turns, so as to press down and support the whole length of the fissure (Fig. 705). In applying the twisted suture the Surgeon must be careful, whilst drawing the edges closely into apposition, not to apply the threads too tightly, lest sloughing result); and in crossing them Fig. 703.—Elastic Com- pressor aj^plied over Coronary Arteiy.