HYPERTROPHY OF THE PREPUCE. TI39 constitutional treatment be adopted, modified according to the circumstances of the case. H3rperfcropliy of the Prepuce not unfrequcntly occiu’S as the result of chronic irritation or disease ; it is usually of limited extent, and requires no special interference on the part of the Surgeon ; but in some instances it may become so extensive as to require operative interference. The h}q)er- trophy is due to solid oedema of the areolar tissue of the prepuce and of the sub-integumental structures of the body of the penis, the organ being very greatly enlarged and becoming club-shaped. In these cases circumcision, with the excision of a V-shaped piece from the dorsum of the penis, Avill usually be found to leave a good and satisfactory result. But a greater magni- tude than this may be attained. Thus Yidal has related and figm-ed a case that had attained such an enormous size, that the organ reiiched to below the knees, and was as large as a thigh. This monstrous growth was success- fully excised. Warts on the penis have already been desciibed. They may attain a very large size, as in Fig. 957, and are best treated by being snipped off with curved scissors. Homy Excrescences have been observed to spring from the glans penis. The most remarkable case of this kind on record is one by Jewett of Connecticut. It was that of a young man, in whom, after operation for congenital phimosis and the removal of warts, a horn grew from the left side of the glans penis, and attained a size of three and a half inches in length by three-fourths of an inch in diameter at the base. It could be handled and cut without pain, and the patient “ was accustomed to amuse the inmates of the ward by lighting the end of the horn and allowing it to burn.” It Avas excised, and did not return. Persistent Priapism, lasting for many days, is occasionally met Avith, as the result in most cases of excessive venery, and more especially of violent coitus during intoxication. The erection of the penis is not accompanied by any sexual desire, but is attended Avith great pain, a sense of Aveight about the periuseura, much anxiety, and constitutional disturbance. The organ is singidarly hard and unyielding. The pathology of this condition is obscure. By some it has been considered as the result of extravasation of blood into the corpora cavernosa; by others, as dependent on sympathetic or reflex nervous irritation. The effect of treatment Avould lead to the inference that the latter vieAV Avas correct. Incisions into the corpora cavernosa to let out the blood supposed to lx; extravasated have been productive of no good result, AV'hilst the erection has rapidly subsided under full doses of the bromide of potassium. Gangrene of the Penis.—Sloughing of the integuments of the penis, to a greater or lesser extent, not unfrequeiitly occurs in pei-sons of broken constitu- tion as the result of inflammatory phimosis, simple or gonorrheal (Fig. 954); or in consequence of the invasion of syphilitic phagedtena, and indeed the glans and body of the organ may often be extensively destroyed by the latter Fig. 957.—Warts on the Glans and inner sm-face of Prepuce, which is slit up.