1196 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL OUGANS. of downward nioYcmcnt A’isiblc on deep inspiration. 2. /Trci/t<.sio/i: J'osition and extent of resonance, Avhether strictly limited or diffused, altered or not by cliaiige of ijosition on tlie part of the patient; presence and natnre of fluctua- tion, whether limited (encysted), or general (free fluid). A. FaJj)afion ; Size, outline, and consistence of the tumour; its relative mobility; solid or with- fluiel contents ; presence of nodular outgrowths. 4. Ausciiltaiion: Presence- of the foetal heart in case of suspected pregnancy; uterine souffle, n. By \ agmal or Rectal examination may be determined whether the tumour have a j3elvic connection or not ; and if so, whether it be uterine, tubal, or ovarian. Tapping or aspiration of a fluctuant abdominal tumour of doubtful origin is occasionally resorted to with a view to ascertain its nature by examination of the fluid withdrawn ; and of late years an exploratory incision has been recommended in obscure cases as a more definite means of clearing up the diagnosis. This last procedure, although comparatively safe if performed mth all due precautions, should by no means be rashly undertaken ; but if practised, the operator must be prepared to at once proceed to the removal of the tumour, should such a step be found advisable. Treatment of Ovarian Tumour.—1. Bij Medical Aleans. These cannot possibly exercise any curative influence, or in any way materially retard the ]3rogress of the disease. Specific treatment by mercury or iodine only hastens the progress of the malady, by breaking down the constitutional powers of the patient ; and attempts at promoting the absorption of the fluid by purga- tives, diuretics, &c., are invariably unsuccessful. The utmost that can be done by medical treatment in ovarian disease is to attend to the general health, and to support the patient’s strength by tonics, pending the removal of the tumour, 2. Tapping in ovarian dropsy was formerly recommended as a palliative mode of treatment, occasionally resulting in a cure. That this may possibly follow in the case of a unilocular serous cyst of the broad ligament, no doubt can be entertained ; but experience has shown that after withdrawal of the fluid from a true ovarian cyst, re-accumulation invariably takes place, necessitating more and more frequent repetition of the tapping, if the treat- ment be persisted in, until the j3atieut finally dies exhausted. The operation, therefore, not only holds out no prospect of cure ; but, as a matter of fact, its adoption is usually the precursor of a more rapidly fatal termination to the case than Avould otherwise occur. For, in addition to the more immediate risks attendant ujAGn the procedure, such as Avound of a A’cssel in the abdomi- nal Avail, in the subjacent omentum, or in the cyst-Avall itself ; puncture of adherent intestine or uiinary bladder ; escape of irritating ovarian fluid into the peritoneal cavity, &c. ; tapping entails also certain remote dangers Avbich render its adoption of very questionable advantage to the patient, even Avhen undertaken as a means of temporary relief. Foremost among these may be mentioned adhesiAn peritonitis, inflammation of the cyst-A\'all, suppuration of its contents—conditions Avhicb, if not rapidly fatal, must very seriously com- plicate any future attempt to extirpate the tumour. Even though none of these untoAvard ev'ents sliould result, yet the operation, unless performed Avith the strictest antiseptic precautions, is always lial)le to induce septic contami- nation of the cyst-fluids, a state of things Avhich, although not necessarily leading to any obvious trouble at the time. Avill surely tend to diminish the