DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 638 place where it should he cut. The nerve lies about half an inch from the tooth, between it and the anterior pillar of tlic fauces, parallel to but behind and below the bulging alveolar ridge, which can be felt in the lower jaw ascend- ing towards the thin coronoid process. By entering the point of a knife, therefore, into the mucous membrane of the mouth, three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tooth, and cutting down to the bone, the nerve must be divided. Moore advises that for this purpose a curved bistoury be used, as the projection of the alv'eolar ridge would protect the nerve from a straight blade. The good effect of the operation is instantaneous; pain ceases in the tongue, ear, face, and head, and the flow of saliva is greatly dimi- nished : and the relief is continuous, for it does not appear that the nerve re-unites. Ligature of the Lingual Artery may be required to restrain profuse hmmorrhage from an ulcerated cancer of the tongue. This operation has been practised also with the view of starving the morbid growth and thus retarding its development. That it does so for a short period is undoubtedly the ca.se, Fig. 725.—Ligature of Lingual Artery. but that it does so permanently is a fallacy. This operation has been recom- mended for these purposes by Demarquay, and has been performed in this country by Moore and C. Heath. The lingual artery may be exposed and tied in the following manner. The artery is reached with most certainty in the digastric triangle of the neck, where it lies beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. A curved incision carried from about one Anger’s breadth external to the symphysis menti downwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone and prolonged upwards to near the angle of the jaw will expose the lower border of the submaxillary gland. In fat 1 subjects, or when the parts are swollen, the incision must be of the full length ! above mentioned, but under ordinary circumstances it may be curtailed by | about half an inch at each end. The first incision divides the skin, superficial ; fascia, and platysma, exposing the strong fascia covering the submaxillar}* | gland. If the incision be cai’ried too far backwards, the facial vein will be : I