319 PULSATING TUMOUPiS OF BONE. Secondary Sarco:mata of Bone,—All malignanfc sarcomata, wherever arising, when they become generalized, may form secondary growths in the bones. Thus in a case of sarcoma of the breast under my care some years ago, the fatal result was due to a secondary tumour forming in the sternum. Melanotic sarcoma not unfrequently gives rise to secondary tumours in the medulla or cancellous tissue of bones. True C.t\_xcer or Carcinoata of Bone is always secondary. Scirrhus, when it becomes generalized, not unfrequently gives rise to secondary tumours of bone. Five cases of this kind have occurred lately in University College , Hospital, which are good examples of this. Fom' occurred after excision of j the breast. In two, the secondary tumour formed in the vertebrae, in one, in i the ribs, and in one, in the femur. In the fifth case, in an apparently i healthy man, the upper jaw was excised by Marcus Beck for what was supposed j to be a primary tumour of the outer part of the upper maxilla and the malar j bone. After death a primary scirrhus cancer of the pancreas was found, and the tumour of the jaw presented the same structure. Epithelioma of bone rarely occurs as a secondary growth, it is usually the result of direct extension from the primary tmnour. A very rare form of malignant growth is occasionally met with in the thyroid body, which almost exactly resembles the normal gland in structure. It has a peculiar tendency to give rise to secondary tumours of the same structure in the bones. Cases of this kind have been recorded by Cohnheim, Morris, and others. In some cases they have pulsated strongly. All secondary cancerous tumours of bone are central, commencing either in the medulla or cancellous tissue. Pulsating TL*ivrouRS of Bone—Osteo-Aneurism.—Pulsating tumours of < bone, or osteo-aneurisms, are a mixed group of growths possessing in common : only one feature, that they pulsate strongly, so as in some cases almost to I resemble a true aneurism. The gveat majority of these are soft vascular 1 sarcomata, in which, as Billroth has pointed out, small aneurismal dilatations i may exist on the vessels, which form a close network throughout the mass. I Gross states that pulsation was present in 20 per cent, of the myeloid tumours, 12 per cent, of the central spindle-celled growths, and 33 per cent, of the central ! round-celled sarcomata, of which he had collected the records. In peripheral ! sarcomata pulsation was very rare. It is evident that pulsation cannot be recognized in central tumours until the bony wall has been completely destroyed at one side, and it is possible that the frequency with which central tumours pulsate distinctly may be due to the fact that the vascular mass of the tumour is suiTounded on all sides but one by unyielding bone. Excluding all these cases, two other kinds of pulsating tumours have been described as occurring in bone. In one of these which is very rare, there is developed in the bone a structure, which is composed of a vascular erectile growth, closely resembling a capillary nmvus in structure, composed of an infinity of vessels, interlacing in every way, so as to form a soft reddish tumour (Fig. Tr21). In the second fonn a hollow cavity is formed in a bone. scoofKjd out of the cancellous structure and filled with blood, partly liquid and partly coagulated, and having arterial branches opening into it. The shell of Vx>ne surrounding this cavity is veiy thin and expanded, and after a time is usually completely absorbed on one side. This constitutes the “true aneurism of bone.” Its mode of origin is uncertain. Volkmanu suggests