DISEASES OE THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 630 [otIjAmmation of TiiK ToNGUE OR GLOSSITIS is nofc a coiiiinoii affection. The most common form is that which arises from immoderate and injudicious administration of mercury. In this the tongue becomes greatly swollen; it may hang from the mouth, with profuse discharge of saliva' and inaljility on the part of the patient to swallow or speak, and perhaps a threatening of suflbeation. The sides are marked by deep impressions of the teeth, in which after a time foul ulcers may form. Acute glossitis with great swelling of the organ occasionally occurs after fevers, and more rarely without any apparent exciting cause. In this form there is acute pain with considerable febrile disturbance. The tongue swells rapidly, so that in a few hours it may reach such a size as to threaten suffocation. The dyspnoea may be due to the obstruction caused by the swollen tongue, or to extension of the oedema to the arytmno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane. The inflammation may end in resolution or lead rapidly to the formation of pus. The Treatment of glossitis varies with the cause and the degi-ee of swelling. If of mercurial origin, the removal of the cause, and the administration of saline purgatives and a chlorate of potash gargle, will usually arrest the progress of the inflammation. If the swelling be very gTeat, more especially in the idiopathic form of the disease, the only efficient treatment consists in making a long and free incision along the dorsum of the tongue on each side of the raphe, which gives free and immediate relief by the escape of blood and infiltrated fluids. I have seen a patient, who was nearly suffocated by the immense size of his tongue, relieved at once by such incisions, and nearly well in the course of a few hours afterwards. Abscess of the Tongue, though rare, occasionally occurs. I have seen several instances of it. The abscess forms a small deeply seated elastic but firm tumour, which sometimes feels slightly movable, and presents no super- ficial discoloration. There is no discoloration or other change in the mucous membrane or epithelium of the tongue. The walls of these glossal abscesses are very thick and dense ; hence the disease may, unless care be taken, be easily mistaken for solid tumours. The abscess is always very chronic, hence the liability to error in diagnosis is increased. It is commonly seated at the edge and towards the anterior part of the tongue, but it may occupy the middle of the tongue. A boy was once brought to me with an elastic tumour of slow' growdh, and of about the size of a small plum, situated deeply in the centre of the tongue ; on puncturing it, about half an ounce of healthy pus was let out, after wdiich the cyst speedily closed. The Treatimnt consists in making a longitudinal incision into the abscess. In aU cases of doubt in diagnosis, this should be done before any other operation is undertaken. Chronic Superficial Glossitis—Psoriasis or Ichthyosis of the Tongue—Leucoplakia.—Under these names a diseased condition of the tongue has been described Avhich is far from uncommon in this country and in France, but is said to be much less frequent in Germany. The disease consists essentially of a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue. In the earliest stages there is hyperemia of the papilla), wth some swelling. If seen at this period the mucous membrane presents red patches, usually limited to the dorsum of the tongue, but occasionally appearing simultaneously on the cheeks, and passing through the same stages there as on the tongue. It can lie recognized clearly only after the mucous membrane has been thoroughly dried wdth a towel. This must never be omitted, for unless the surface is well