DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 534 the skull covering it; the hone becomes thin and expanded, and crackles like parchment on pressure, sometimes not being raised above its jn-oper level, Imt more nsnally being pushed up by the pressure of the groAvth beneath, whicli at last protrudes under the scalp. More usually, this perforation of the skull is gradual; but in some cases it would appear to have' been rapid, the first intimation of disease that the patient had being the presence of a tumour imdcr the scalp. Wlicn the skull is perforated, tlie shar]) edges of tlie circular opening can be distinctly felt; and the tumour which protrudes pulsates distinctly, as may be proved both by the finger and the eye. Pathology.—The nature of these tumours is somewhat uncertain, as sufficient cases have not yet been recorded with an accurate microscopical description of' the growth ; but it is probable that in the majority of cases they are round- or spindle-celled sarcomata springing from the outer layers of the membrane,! which forms the internal periosteum of the skull. Symptoms.—Symptoms of cerebral disturbance—double vision, optic! neuritis, loss of sight, deafness, or epileptic fits, with fixed pain in the head—' usually precede for a considerable time the external appearance of the tumour.' In some rare cases, no such symptoms have indicated the existence of intra-; cranial disease; and the first evidence of the disease has been the sudden| protrusion of a pulsating tumour through the skull. If the tumour l>e| compressed, egg-shell crackling of the expanded and thinned cranial bones willj be felt, and, if attempts be made to push it back under the bones, giddiness, | syncope, and convulsions are produced. As the disease makes progress, death | from paralysis and coma supervenes. | Treatment.—The result of the treatment of fungus of the dura mater is not! very satisfactory ; yet, as the disease appears to be almost of necessity fatal if left to itself, something should be attempted—not, however, until the tumour has fairly appeared through the bones. The scalp covering it should be turned back by a crucial incision, and the tumour exposed. The apertm’e in the skull through which it is protruded may then,- if necessary, be enlarged by the use of the trephine or Hey’s saw, so as to lay bare the fuU extent of the tumour, which must then be carefully dissected aw'ay from the dm-a mater. In a case in which the operation was being performed by Volkmann, the patient died from the entrance of air drn’ing inspiration through an accidental wound of the longitudmal sinus. Fungus of the Skull also may occur. This term has been applied to any soft fungating tumour springing primarily from the vault of the skull. The growth may spring from beneath the periosteum, when it is usually a small round-celled or a spindle-celled sarcoma, or from the diploe when it is most commonly myeloid. It gives rise to a smooth ovoid tumour on the head, which may or may not pulsate. If it springs from the diploe it is usually covered by a thin layer of bone, which gives the sensation of egg-shell crackling; when it is subperiosteal, it not uncommonly contains a framework of irregular spicula of bone. As the disease progresses it usually perforates the skull, and comes into contact with the dura mater. It is then very difficult to determine whether it arose from that membrane, or merely implicated it by extension. These tumours may become multiple, and after a time be followed by secondary visceral growths. I have twice seen the liver secondarily affected in this way, death resulting without cerebral disturbance from intestinal hajmorrhage and exhaustion. The only treatment possible is! I I 1 ■i 1 1 tj 1 i i. I (