247 LIGA TURK OF FEMORA L—RESULTS—A CCI DENTS. making allowance for the probability of more t)f the unsuccessful than suc- cessful having been recorded. Thus of 110 instances, collected by Crisp, in which the femoral artery had been ligatured for poiditeal aneurism, only twelve are reported to have died ; amongst these, four deaths were caused by secondary luemorrhage, three by gangrene, and the others by phlebitis, tetanus, chest-disease, &c. Higher rates of mortality are, however, given by other authom ; thus, Norris states that nearly one in four die after this operation ; Hutchinson finds that of thirty-three cases operated on in London, ten were I fatal, live deaths resulting from gangrene. Holmes’s statistics, Avhich are i extremely valuable as being collected directly from hospitals and not from published cases, show very favourable results. Of eighty-seven cases in Avhich 1 the operation was performed for femoral or popliteal aneurism, thirteen died, and in three the operation failed to cure the disease. Grangrene occurred twice, and suppuration of the sac not once. Of the deaths, one was from I small-pox, two from wound of the vein and phlebitis, three from pymmia, one from gangrene and amputation, one from disease of the kidneys, and the rest fr-om various other causes. Harwell has collected also from hospital reports 07 cases occurring in the ten years 1870 to 1879 inclusive. Of these 10 died. Most of the deaths occun-ed, however, in the fii'st half of this period, in I which 32 cases were operated on, with 7 deaths and 2 amputations ; while in I the second half, out of 35 cases there were 3 deaths and no amputations. Harwell has also contrasted the results with reference to the various materials used as ligatures. He finds that in 14 cases silk was used, of these 3 died, 1 of rupture of an aneurism at the site of ligature, 1 of secondary hmmorrhage and 1 of pymmia, and in 1 case the anemlsm relapsed. In 27 cases catgut Avas used, of these G died and 3 relapsed. Of the deaths, 1 ai’ose fr'om causes un- I connected Avith the operation, 2 of secondary liaBinorrhage, and 2 after retying for relapse or aneurism at the site of ligature. In 4 cases the ox-aorta ligature I was msed successfully. The catgut used some years ago Avas someAvhat un- ceitain in its quality, and in one of the cases in Avhich secondary hmmorrhage occuiTcd, it AA'as applied Avithout antiseptic precautions, and consequently differed but little from the old silk ligature in its properties. It remains to be determined Avhat form of ligature gives the best results—Avhether catgut prepared according to the later methods {vide Vol. I., p. 420), carbolized silk, or the ox-aorta, applied in such a Avay as not to divide the inner and middle coats. There is little doubt that the Ioav death rate of the later period is due to improvement in the ligature and in the after-treatment of the Avound, and there is eA'ery reason to hope that it Avill at least be maintained, and probably Ixj further reduced. Accidents.—Wound of the Femoral Vein is Avithout doubt the most serious accident that can happen in the operation for ligature of the superficial femoral artery, and is one of Avhich there is especial risk when recourse is had to this operation for aneurism ; as in this disease the fine areolar tissue Avhich naturally connects the tAVO vessels often becomes thickened and indurated, in consequence of chronic inflammation extending U])wards from the sac to the sheath of the vessels. It is best aA’oided by ])assing the needle in the Avay that has been already recommended, unarmed and Avithout the euqiloyment of force. This accident is almost invariably fatal, there being but very feAV instances on record in which ])atients have survived it ; death usually result- ing from septic phlebitis, or the sui)ervention of gangrene, d'he true cause of