DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 22 bable that, in many of the cases of neuralgia in the Ijranches of the fifth nerve, pain may be owing to periosteal inflammation, or to some other disease of the osseous canals through which the divisions of the nerve pass. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of neuralgia, though usually effected without any difficulty, is in some cases a little embarrassing, as the pain may occasionally simulate that of organic disease or inflammation of the part. From oi'ganic disease of the part that is the seat of suffering, such as the hip, the knee, the testis, or the breast, this disease may usually be distinguished by the co-exist- ence of heightened cutaneous sensibility, the existence of the hysterical temperament, and the absence of the other signs that would accompany lesion of structure in the part affected. From inflammation the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy, by attending to the intermittent character of the neuralgic pain, to its occurrence in hysterical temperaments, and to the absence of the constitutional symptoms of inflammation. But occasionally, when local inflammatory irritation is conjoined with the nem’algia, the diagnosis is difficult. Here the presence of cutaneous hypersesthesia and the relief of the pain by firm pressure will indicate neuralgia ; whereas, in inflammation, there is no tenderness of surface, but the suffering is aggravated by deep pressure. Treatment.—The treatment of neuralgia must have reference to its cause, and will be successful or not according as this may be more or less readily removed. So long as the conditions that primarily occasion the disease sub- sist, the pain is likely to continue : and if these conditions be irremovable, the disease may be looked upon as necessarily incurable, though the suffering may be alleviated by appropriate means. Wlien it arises from any central nervous affection, there may be fear of the ultimate occurrence of disease of a more serious type, such as epilepsy, insanity, &c. Wlien it occurs as the consequence of anaemia, or in the hysterical tempera- ment, the administration of the more stimulating and stronger preparations of iron, such as the sulphate or the perchloride, or the mistura ferri composita, either alone or in combination with quinine, with attention to the state of the bowels and of the uterine functions, and a general tonic regimen calculated to brace and improve the general health, such as sea-bathing, the cold douche or cold sponging, will be of essential service. In some of these cases the combinations of zinc, especially the valerianate, with the foetid gums, will remove the disease when iron does not influence it much. At the same time, the application of belladonna or aconite plasters, or the inunction of these liniments may be of service. When the neuralgia is distinctly periodical, quinine in fnU doses, or the liquor arsenicalis, will usually effect a speedy em'e. 'When it is rheumatic, occurring in debilitated subjects, and attended by distinct nocturnal exacerba- tions of pain, no remedy exercises so great an impression upon it as the iodide of potassium, especially when administered in combination with quinine. In the more severe and protracted forms of the disease, relief may be occa- sionally obtained by attention to the state of the liver and digestive organs, by a course of some of the more purgative mineral watern, and by the occasional administration of aloetics, followed by tonic remedies. Local applications of a sedative kind, such as chlorofonn, belladonna, aconite, opium, &c., are often useful adjuncts to constitutional treatment. By far the readiest mode of affording relief locally is the hypodermic injection. Hot more than from one-sixth to a quarter of a grain of morphia should at first be used at one time, and the action of this small dose is often very powerful. More