259 VARIETIES OF PERIOSTITIS. C‘ J fi 9 A Inflammatory Processes in the PERiosTEu:\r.—The periosteum is com- posed of two layei's, the more superficial of which consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue ; tlie deeper contains a large proportion of yellow elastic tissue. Forming part of the deep layer in immediate contact with the bone is a stratum which contains numerous cells. In growing bone these have the ordinary appearance of the cells always found immediately jjreceding the formation of new bone, the so-called osteoblasts ; they are granular and somewhat angular in outline. In adult bone these are represented by flattened cells, but they readily resume the form of osteoblasts under slight degi'ees of stimulation. The periosteum is extremely vascular, the vessels breaking up in it and entering the Haversian canals of the bone beneath, and numerous nerves may be traced in its structure. The effects of this structure in modifying the process of inflammation are obvious. The extreme vascu- laiity of the membrane favours exudation, and the inflammatory products accumulate most abundantly in the deeper layers, and between them and the bone, beneath the denser fibrous layer. They penetrate also along the vessels into the Haversian canals. Owing to the abundant nervous supply and to the tension caused by the unyielding nature of the superficial layers of the periosteum, inflammatory exudation is often accompanied by very severe pain. Should the inflammation terminate in suppuration the vessels passing from the periosteum to the bone are destroyed, and death of a portion of the compact tissue may result. This is, however, by no means a necessary conse- quence, especially if the periosteum be separated only to a small extent, as the blood-supply from the medulla is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the denuded bone. Sloughing of the periosteum as a result of inflammation is a somewhat rare occuiTence owing to its abundant vascularity. Caseation of the inflammatory products is not common in periostitis, but is occasionally met with. Lastly, new bone is formed with great readiness in all chronic inflammatory processes in the periosteum, the mode in which it is developed being the same as in physiological growth, though wanting in regularity. The following are the names given to the various inflammatory processes occurring in the periosteum:—(1.) Simple Acute Periostitis; (2.) Suppurative Periostitis, a. Simple and Localized : h. Infective and Diffuse ; (3.) Chronic Osteoplastic Periostitis ; (4.) Chronic Suppurative Periostitis ; (5.) Syphilitic Periostitis. 1. Simple Acute Periostitis.—This is most commonly the result of injury. The membrane is redder and thicker than natural. It separates easily, and as it is stripped off* fine threads are seen passing from it into the bone; these are the vessels which are loosened by the exudation into the Haversian canals, and consequently draw out more readily. On section the swollen membrane presents a somewhat gelatinous appearance due to ihc infiltration of its structure with the inflammatory exudation ; this is most marked in the deeper layers next the bone. Microscopic examination shows only the ordinary appearances of inflammation—dilatation and fulness of the vessels and numerous small round cells infiltrating the fibrous tissue, especially its deeper layers. 8imple acute periostitis may end in resolution vath a |)erfect return to the normal condition, or it may pass on to su])pura- tion, but more commonly it becomes chronic and assumes the osteo[)lastic form. Suppurative Periostitis, (a) Simple Acute Periostitis, resulting a 2 1 rom