CAUSES OF DEFORMITY OF NECK AND LIMBS. 497 so that, by the paralysis of one set, or by tlie spasmodic action of the otlier, the proper balance of power is lost, and the limb or part deviates from the position that is natural to it, being drawn aside by the more powerful set of muscles. These deformities may be congenital, or they may be acquired. The primary mischief is, in many cases seated in the nervous system ; in others, but more rarely, in the muscular. The ligaments and bones become only secondarily altered in shape, being shortened or compressed on the side towards which the limb or part inclines or is drawn. Fascite also become shortened and tense, and the disused muscles are apt to become soft, wasted, and flabby. The contracted muscle after a time becomes permanently rigid and shortened. Causes.—The causes of these deformities are veiy various ; but they may be referred to the following heads. 1. Prolonged Abnormal Position of a limb, as in an mireduced disloca- tion or an ankylosed limb, may lead to permanent deformity. It may be taken as a general pathological law that ligaments, fascite, and to a less extent muscles, if kept for a sufficient length of time in a continuously relaxed state, become shortened to accommodate themselves to the position in which they have been placed, and thus render the displacement, which originally caused the relaxation permanent. The most marked example of this is seen in cases of psoas abscess, in which the patient has been confined to bed for months before death with the knees constantly flexed. After a time complete extension becomes impossible, and dissection proves that this is due to shortening of those ligaments that are relaxed in flexion. A similar shortening of ligaments or fascim may occur after fractm-es, if the parts be kept for too long a time in one position, more particularly if they be bound and matted together by the pressure of tight bandages. There is no danger however of such a condition being developed in the time ordinarily required for the treatment of a fracture. Some forms of congenital club-foot have been supposed to be due to a ])rolonged abnormal position of the limb dm’ing intra- uterine life, but the evidence of this is not very satisfactory. 2. Contraction of inflammatory new growths or of tissues which have been inflltrated with inflammatory exudations, is a fruitful cause of deformities. As examples may be mentioned, the contraction of the cica- trices of burns in any part of the body, acquired talipes equinus from con- traction following a deep-seated abscess in the calf, and contracted knee or hip after inflammation of the joint. 3. Derangement of the proper antagonistic action of certain groups of Muscles.—This may arise from a variety of causes. (a.) The Position of the Limb may give one group of muscles an advantage over their opponents ; thus in disease of the knee, the flexed position gives the flexor muscles an advantage over the extensors, and we consequently find that the head of the tibia becomes after a time displaced to a greater or less degree backwards into the ham, merely by the tonic contraction of the muscles without any weakness or paralysis of their opponents. (b.) Paralysis or paresis of one group of muscles, the contractility of their antagonists continuing normal is a common cause of deformity, as the relative balance of action is destroyed, and the stronger muscles will pull the part over to their side. The causes of this condition may be in the muscles themselves, in the nerve supplying them, or in the central portions of the nervous system.