CIIROXIC SUrERFICIAL GLOSSITIS—LEUCORLAKIA. 631 dried it is impossible to observe accurately the condition of the papillm and epithelium. As the disease advances, an excessive growth of epithelium takes place over the swollen papillm. The superficial layers of cells become horny and opacjue, the ueighbonriiig spots coalesce, and thus white patches of con- siderable size form on the mucous membrane, from which appearance the name of leucoj)Iakia was suggested by Schwimmer for the disease. As the , disease advances, microscopic examination shows that the papillae and the superficial parts of the corium j^resent the ordinary signs of chronic inflamma- tion, the vessels are dilated and the surrounding tissues infiltrated with small I round cells. The next stage in the process is characterized by atrophy of the t papillaj. The opaque patches then become perfectly smooth. In this stage i the surface of the tongue is someAvhat indurated, having upon its surface i smooth patches of a dead-white colour, irregular in shape, and varying in size j from that of a split pea to an inch in diameter. This condition closely I resembles the appearance of psoriasis of the palms of the hands, and from this I resemblance has been termed psoriasis of ihe tongue. When the disease has I reached this stage, cracks, fissures, or superficial ulcers may foim in the opaque j patches. The ulceration takes place mostly by an exaggeration of the process I already described. At some point, possibly as the result of injury, the small round cells become increased in number by migration from the vessels, the epithelium becomes loosened and is rubbed off by the movements of the tongue, and a raw surface is thus left, from which ulceration may gradually extend. more serious result is the supervention of epithelioma, which is a common termination of the disease. Microscopic examination of a tongue in which this is taking place may show all the stages of the disease in one ■ section : at the margin of the patch will be enlarged papillae covered with a ; thick layer of epithelium ; nearer the centre the papillae have disappeared, the i corium being covered by a thick layer of epithelium, the greater part of which ' is composed of flattened homy scales ; near the centre the cells of the rete I mucosum are seen to be growing actively and forming columns which force I their way into the spaces of the submucous tissue, and further on, amongst i the muscular fibres. These columns are suiTounded by the zone of small cell- i infiltration always seen at the edge of a growing cancer. I Various modifications of the process above described may be met with ; Jthus, in some cases the growth of epithelium is less abundant, so that instead of the formation of white patches, the surface of the tongue becomes smooth, red, and shining, giving rise to the condition known as the gtazed red |t tongue'^ In other cases the growth of epithelium may be very excessive, ^ forming thick scaly masses on the surfiice, from which this variety has been I termed ichthyosis of the tongue. These foims, though differing in detail, are I essentially the same pathologically. All foims of the disease are accompanied by some discomfort, though usually H no actual pain. The tongue is tender, so that the patient cannot take ■ mustard, or spices or drink hot fluids. The speech may become slightly ■ lisping or indistinct. The duration is very indefinite. In some cases it ■ progresses slowly for many years, at last becoming stationary and causing the I patient but little inconvenience. In others ulceration may take place after a I few years. The invasion of epithelioma may occur after ten or even twenty N years, and in many cases the patient escapes altogether. The causes of the H disease are not always to be clearly ascertained. The earlier writers believed