HERNIOTOMY WITHOUT OPENING SAC. 799 lips of the external opening may be pared and brought together by hare lip pins and sutures. In some cases, from the length of time that has elapsed many years, possibly—the fistula continues permanently patent, and no treat- ment is available for its closure. Its existence is not incompatible with good general health. I have had two cases under my constant observation, in one of which, that of a woman about fifty years of ago, the whole of the intestinal contents have been discharged for four years through an aperture of the umbilicus, in consequence of the sloughing away of a large coil of intestine in an umbilical hernia; the other being that of a lady more than eighty, who has for upwards of thirty years had a fa3cal fistula in the right, groin, conseqneiit on an operation for femoral hernia. In the second method of operating adopted by Dittel, Billroth, Czerny, and many other continental Surgeons, the gut is freely exposed and dissected away from its adhesions to the abdominal wall. This must be done with antiseptic precautions. The bowels must have been thoroughly emptied before the operation is commenced. The external opening must be carefully cleaned with some efficient antiseptic, and unhealthy granulation tissue must be scraped away with a sharp spoon. The orifice of the gut must also be cleansed, and a small piece of sponge, which has been properly disinfected by carbolic lotion, may be pushed into the upper orifice to prevent the escape of any faecal matter. The opening through which the gut protrudes must then be enlarged by an incision earned in the most convenient direction and the gut dissected away and drawn out. If the opening is on one side only and very small, it may be closed by sutures ; if large, the whole affected portion of the gut is cut away. The details of this operation are described later on, as they are identical Avith those practised in the removal of portions of intestine for other causes. As before stated, the death rate among the published cases in which this operation has been performed, is one in four ; so it must not be lightly undertaken. If the patient suffers merely from a fiecal fistula, which can be easily controlled by a pad, it would evidently be unjustifiable to submit him to the risk of such an operation. If, however, the patient is otherwise in good health, but suffering great inconvenience from the artificial anus, and other means have failed, the operation holds out a fan- prospect of relief and maybe undertaken. Operation without Opening the Sac.—The possibility of removing the stricture in strangulated hernia without laying the sac open, naturally sug- gested itself Avhen it was known that in many cases the stricture was seated in the tendinous and areolar tissues outside the neck of the sac, and that, when these were divided, the protrusion was readily reduced. This operation was perfonned by Petit as long ago as 1718, but was seldom practised until it was revived of late years by Aston Key and Luke. The great advantage sought y to be gained by this operation is that, as the peritoneum is not interfered with nor its cavity opened, the risk from peritonitis will be proportionately lessened. The Avound made by the operation being altogether superficial, and the sac a not opened, its risk Inis been compared to that of the taxis, with the addition of that Avhich would result from a superficial wound. This argument Avould Ixj conclusive in favour of the operation Avithout opening the sac, if it could l)c shown that, in all cases of strangulated hernia, peritonitis is occasioned by interfering with the peritoneal cavity ; it must, however, be admitted, even by the keenest advocates of Petit’s operation, that this is not the case. It has