393 EXCISION OF KNEE-JOINl. u ■1'-- operating. Care must be taken not to remove more of the bones than is abso- ■iutely necessary, especially in young subjects, lest the epiphyses be completely \;emoved, and the growth of the limb interfered with. It is usually suflicient JO remove from one-third to three-fourths of an inch of the tibia, and about ijiie inch or an inch and a half of the thigh-bone (Figs. 552 and 553). In roung childi'cu the ends of the bones can sometimes be sliced off with a knife, ind the amount taken away accurately limited to the diseased tissues. It not •.infrequently happens that carious cavities are found extending below the level Fig. 551.—Application of Butcher’s Saw to Head of Tibia. Fig. 553.—Uitper End of Tibia, excised. f f the section that has been made ; when this is the case, it is better to apply ne gouge to them than to saw the bone below their level. Should the •peration be performed for deformity consequent upon badly reduced fractures r dislocations about the knee, as has been done successfully by Humphry of i.!ambridge, it may be necessai-y, in order to bring the limb into good position, ) remove a wedge-shaped piece from one of the bones. If the patella be much diseased, it must be removed ; if it be only slightly !^|iarious, it may be scraped or gouged out ; and if healthy, in accordance with aat principle of conservative surgery by which no sound part is removed, it Qould be left, becoming consolidated with and strengthening the joint. The "rticular surface for the patella on the thigh-bone, which extends some way up « forepart, may advantageously be sliced off, so as to leave an osseous sm-face, .'istead of a cartilaginous one, for the attachment of the patella. I have always found the operation, as it has just been described, easy of per- )rmance and good in its results ; but various modifications arc adopted by ifferent Surgeons. Thus, some make one straight transverse incision ; others VO parallel incisions, one on each side of the patella, or an H-shaped incision, nd thus open the articulation from the side. Jones of Jersey, who had great 'tperience in this operation, advised that the skin be dissected up by means of semilunar incision, and then that the ligamentuin patella) be preserved by eing pushed with the patella and the (]iuidriceps extcu.sor tendon to one side.