OSTEITIS OF CANCELLOUS TISSUE. 267 into the IIavei*sian canals. The veins of the affected bone become inflamed and filled ■with coagnlum. The thrombi being invaded by the infective material, soften and disintegrate, and the fragments bearing with them the infective material are carried into the circulation, and thus embolic pyaemia is a very common result of difluse osteomyelitis. Inflammatory Affections of the Cancellous Tissue.—The cancelli of the spongy tissue of bone are composed of osseous tissue differing in no respect save that of its arrangement from the compact substance. The spaces are filled with a marrow in most parts identical with that of the medullary canal, but containing less fat. In the vertebras, ribs, and diploe of the skull, the marrow is red, and contains numerous cells like white corpuscles and others apparently intermediate between white and red. There is no reason to believe that any of the pathological changes observed in cancellous bone begin in the osseous tissue, the starting point of every process, as far as can be ascertained, being the medulla filling the cancellous spaces. The following are the chief inflammatory processes met with in the cancellous tissue :—1. Acute diffuse inflammation ; 2. Rarefactive osteitis, {a) without sujipuration, (&) with sup- puration ; 3. Osteoplastic osteitis. Acute Diffuse Inflammation of the Cancellous Tissue is the same process occurring in the medulla of the cancellous tissue as has already been described under the name of acute diffuse osteomyelitis when attacking the marrow of a long bone, and arises under similar conditions, either as the result of the contact of putrid discharges in an open wound, implicating the spongy tissue of a bone, or as an infective process commencing without direct communication with the external air. In many cases it is merely an extension to the ends of the bone from the medullary canal. In it the can- cellous spaces become filled wuth pus, or the medullary tissue may become gangrenous. It alw^ays leads to necrosis of the osseous tissue surrounding the spaces. Rarefying Osteitis is very common in spongy bones, and forms the chief pathological change in a large proportion of the cases clinically spoken of as caries. Rarefying osteitis in cancellous bone is essentially the same process as in the compact tissue. Inflam- matory exudation and migration of white corpuscles take place in the medullary tissue, and the original structures disappear before the inflammatory new growth (Fig. 497). The cancelli become gradually thinned, being absorbed in exactly the same way as the lamclLm of the compact tissue. A spiculuin of bone removed from the inflamed area shows the same irregular excavations or Howship’s lacunm, in most of wdiich osteoclasts may be seen. The bone-corpuscles have frequently undergone fatty degeneration, Fig. 407.—Carious Roue from a Ca.se of Scrofulous Osteitis of tlie bones of the Skull in a cliiUl. At h are seen the so-called Ljicuim) of Howsliip: the material lilling the dilated Cancellous Spaces a is more or less cheesy granulation-tissue.