STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 508 111 childbearing women the disease appears to have a I’emarkable predilec-i tioii for the pelvis ; it is probable, however, that a careful examination of alll the bones has not been made in all cases. State of the Urine.—In all cases that have been recorded, the urine hasbeem found to contain large quantities of earthy matter. Solly pointed out that tliisi is phosphate of lime, which has been absorbed from the bone, and thrown out by the kidneys in the urine ; and sometimes the elimination of this matter ief so abundant that it forms, as in one of the cases which he relates, calculus, clogging iqi the interior of the kidney. In MacIntyre’s case, theS earthy matters of the bone appear to have been, in the first instance, absoiiied,^ and carried off from the kidneys by the urine ; but afterwards an animalj! matter, of a peculiar and apparently previously undescribed character, wa^ 1 discharged in abundance. : Symptoms.—These are, in the early stages, extremely obscure and insidious^; | The patient complains, in the first instance, of wandering pains about thef! * limbs and trunk which assume usually a rheumatic character, though theytj have been observed to be of a much more severe, persistent, and intractablef. natm’e than those that occur in any form of rheumatism. The patient become^j debilitated, unfitted for exertion, and emaciated. Spontaneous fracture nowii occurs in some bones under the infiuence of the most trivial causes; other^ become bent, and the body consequently greatly misshapen and distorted] The deformity of the pelvis is a frequent cause of difficult labour, often ne- cessitating Cmsarean section, or Porro’s operation. The acetabula are approxi- mated by the weight of the body pressing on the head of the femora ; thus the oblique diameters are diminished, while the pubes is carried forward, the horizontal rami often coming nearly in contact. The urine presents some t of the abnormal characters above described, and death usually eventually results fi’om general exhaustion. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection has to be made in the early stage from rheumatism. This is not always easy, and, indeed, is at first impossible but after a time, when the peculiar phosphatic condition of the urine and the fragility or distortions of the osseous system manifest themselves, the truep nature of the affection becomes apparent. With ricicets it cannot possibly ben' confounded, as rickets is a disease of childhood, and osteomalacia is peculiar tor adult or advanced life. i Treatment.—With regard to treatment, but little can be done ; the admi-| nistration of tonics, and a general supporting plan of treatment, may arrest fori* a time the progress of this terrible affection ; but when once it is declared, it |i usually progresses fi’om bad to worse, and at last destroys the patient. Opiates may be employed to allay the pain, and in MacIntyre’s case some temporary advantage appeared to result from the administration of alum ; but no remedy has appeared to exercise any continuous advantage in this complaint. Cases have however been recorded in which, after very extensive softening of the bones, complete recovery has taken place. TUMOTJES OP BONE. Exostosis.—By exostosis is meant the groAvth of a bony tumour from some of the osseous structures of the body. Tlie causes that immediately give rise to this disease are usually extremely obscure. There can be no doubt that in