DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 462 and deep-seated a character to disintegrate and crumble away in the discliar^es so that a natural cure Avithont operation could take place. When once suppuration has taken place within the capsule of the joint the sooner the pus is evacuated the better. No good can possibly come from the retention of pus in the joint. It leads only to further disorganization of the articular structures, to fresh constitutional irritation, and at length to burst- ing of the capsule, and the formation of large extra-articular abscesses. To Annandale we are indebted for having put this practice to the test of experi- ence, and by making a free incision into the posterior part of the joint in conjunction with antiseptics, and good drainage obtaining the most satisfac- tory results. It is only in very acute cases, however, that this treatment can be practised; more commonly the pus forms slowly, and is not recognized till it forms a considerable extra-articular abscess. Such abscesses should be opened early and freely, and, if possible, with antiseptic precautions. At the time the abscess is opened the cavity must be thoroughly examined Avith the finger to search for sequestra, and to ascertain if possible the situation of the disease, the position and size of the opening in the capsule, and the condition of the head of the bone. If dislocation have taken place, and the limb consequently have become a good deal shortened or deformed, being perhaps adducted and iuA'erted so far as to be tAvisted over the other, or draAvn up upon the abdomen, much may be done to lessen the deformity by putting the patient under chloroform, bringing doAvn the limb, and fixing it by a proper splint.. Ankylosis in a good position may thus be sometimes obtained, and the patient’s condition be greatly im- proved. It is a question Avhether an attempt at reduction should be made in these cases of consecutive dislocation, as it is very rarely that it would prove permanently successful, the acetabulum being either filled up, or the head of the bone so diseased and lessened in size, that it would not remain in its cavity when put back. Occasionally, however, reduction may he successfully effected. In a woman under my care at the Hospital, with spontaneous dislo- cation of the hip of about a month’s duration, reduction was effected by means of the pulleys, and the head of the bone replaced in the cotyloid cavity, where it remained for some Aveeks ; becoming, howeA'er, displaced again in conse- quence of its being necessary to remove a bandage that was applied, as she became affected with inflammation of the lungs, and could not bear its pressure. If ankylosis be likely to occur, the Surgeon must endeaAmur to secure it with the limb in a straight position ; otherAvise great inconA'enience to the patient may result, especially if it occur in the position represented in Fig. 582. After a stiff joint has formed, the mobility of the lumbar vertebrm, and more particularly of the lumbo-sacral articulation, will be found to be gi’eatly increased : so that at last the patient Avill AA'alk with little inconveni- ence, rotating the pelvis on them. If the ankylosis be not osseous, but the result of the arthritic form of the disease, and especially if the head of the bone be still in the acetabulum, the limb may be straightened by forcible extension and rotation under chloroform, and the heel thus brought to the ground. Excision of the head of the femur has usually been done in advanced cases of the disease ; but Annandale, Croft, and others, advise that recourse be had to it in the earlier stages. In those cases of hip-disease in A\hich signs of