1169 TUHERC ULA R TESTICLE. tiirhtly down with a piece of lint and strappiii”;. If it be larger, it may be shaved oft', and the cut surface then dressed with the ointmeut of the red ^jxide of mercury ; care being taken diu’iug cicatrization to repress the granu- lations below the level of the surrounding integument by strapping and pressure. Syme has recommended that the pressure should be eflected by the integument of the part; an elliptical incision being made round the fungus and the edges of the opening in the skin through Avhich it protrudes pared away, the scrotal integuments are freely separated by dissection from theii’ subjacent connexions, and brought together over the protruding mass and secured by sutures. This operation I have practised with success. Should the fungus be of very lai’ge size, so as to include within itself the whole or greater part of the structure of the testis, it may not be possible to save any of that organ ; and in these circumstances it is better to remove the whole gland ; if left it could never be of any service, and would continue slowly to suppurate, Tubergular Testicle, Scrofulous Testicle, or Tubercular Sar- COCELE.—This disease, although occasionally met with in individuals appa- rently strong and healthy, usually occurs in those of a feeble or cachectic constitution, most frequently in early manhood ; and, although commonly associated with phthisis, may occur without any evidence of tubercle in other organs. It is veiy common to find both glands affected, but the disease is usually more advanced in one than in the other. In some cases it arises apparently as a sequence of gonoiThoeal epididy- mitis, or there may be a history of some injury to the testicle. The disease almost invariably com- mences in the epididymis, either at the globus major or minor, Avhich becomes swollen, indurated, and slightly tender. As it progresses, it spreads upwards along the vas deferens until it may reach the prostate and vesiculm seminales, and forwards through the corpus Highmorianmn into the body of the testis. In some rare cases, it is said to commence in the body of the gland. The progress ■of the disease is usually slow, but it may go on rapidly to almost complete destruction of the testis. In a w^ell-marked case the following con- ditions will be found. The testicle is moderately enlarged, but on examination this enlargement will be found to be chiefly in the epididymis, which can be felt as an irregular, craggy, nodulated mass, half suiTounding the body of the gland in the form of a crescent situated at its posterior asjiect (Fig. 073). In the hard mass, which often considerably exceeds the body of the gland in bulk, spots of softening may be felt. The gland itself may seem soft and natural, or a nodule or two may be felt in its substance. 'The affection is scarcely ever complicated by hydrocele, and in the e.arlier stages the scrotum is unaffected. The spermatic cord will usually ])resent no general thickening, but the vas deferens is enlarged. Instead of feeling like a piece of whipcord between the fingers it may be as large as a quill. If the disease have extended to the vcsiculaj seminales, these can be felt enlarged and hardened by introducing the finger into the rectum. There is little or no pain, and on squeezing the gland the ordinary VOL. II. J p Fi". 973.—Tubercular Testi- cle, showing the diseased Epi- didymis forming a crescentic muss partially siUTOunding the healthy body.