DISEASES OF JOINTS. 338 Passive movement must be undertaken with ^reat caution, and not until every trace of active inflammation has passed aAvay. It is Ijctter to keep the limb fixed a month or more longer than is absolutely necessary than to begin passive movement a day too soon. The chances of ankylosis are only in- - creased and the chronic inflammation prolonged by abandoning the treatment by perfect rest before the proper time. Should the treatment fail to prevent suppuration, the prognosis becomes far ' more unfavourable, especially when large joints, such as the knee or hip, are affected; so, likewise, when the articular ends of the long bones are diseased, it' is seldom that the joint can recover itself, as caries or necrosis are complicating ; the arthritis and keeping it up. When the articulation is very sinuous, as in i the carpus, or when a number of small joints communicate with one another, ^ > if not directly by synovial membrane, at all events indirectly through the medium of ligament and of fibrous tissue, as in the tarsus, a cure can rarely be obtained. As soon as the presence of pus is recognized, steps must be taken i to let it out completely, and to drain the cavity thoroughly. It is important ; that this should be done if possible before the capsule gives way and the pus i becomes diffused in the surrounding parts. When distinct fluctuation is felt and the cavity of the articulation is evidently , full of fluid, if there be any doubt as to its nature, the joint should be punctured i with the aspirator. If the fluid removed is thin, serous pus mixed with i synovia, the fomentations and other local means of treatment may be continued, and aspiration repeated if the joint fills again. If thick pus is Avithdi’awn, an opening should be made at once and the cavity drained. If the skin is reddened at one part, under which fluctuation is very distinct, the presence of pus is certain, and aspiration will be of little use. An abscess in a joint should be freely opened by one or two lateral incisions, extending fairly into the synovial cavity, so as to afford a free exit for the pus. The practice of making free incisions into a suppurating joint, as advocated by : Gay, was a great improvement on the former method of merely puncturing it. The small aperture that was formerly made, without any antiseptic precautions i admitted air, in consequence of which the pus became offensive and irritating, and, being unable to escape freely gave rise not only to much local mischief, butt to severe septic fever. By laying the joint open freely, even when no special antiseptic treatment was adopted, much of this was prevented ; exit was given iii freely to the pus through one or two incisions extending the whole length of the articulation ; the septic poisoning from pent-up and putrid matter wasli prevented, and in many cases healthy granulations sprang up in the cavity | and recovery took place with an ankylosed joint. The chances of this success-!* ful termination resulting are very greatly increased by the adoption of some^ efficient method of antiseptic dressing. The irregular cavity of a joint isb difficult to drain perfectly even with the fr’eest incisions, and consequently it is i of gi’eat importance that such fluid as remains behind should not be allowed to ■ decompose. The use of the carbolic spray, though not essential, Avill render ■ the prevention of decomposition more easy and more certain. By the > combined use of antiseptic drainage and rest most excellent results are' obtained, and excision of the joint or amputation of the limb usually | avoided. It is more especially in the knee, elboAV, and hip, that this practice i has yielded such good results. In some cases, even when the joint has been • perfectly loose and grating, by perseverance in projicr treatment a good and i