DISEASES OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 543 Affections of the Nasal Cavity.—Examination of the Nasal Cavity. —The nasal cavity may be examined from the front by means of the nasal speculum (Fi«f. Goo). This is introduced so as to dilate the nosti’il, and a strong light is then thrown in by means of the laryngoscopic mirror. The s])ecnhim shown in Fig. GoG, will be found very convenient, as it does not require holding, and thus leaves the Surgeon’s hands free. The posterior nares can be examined by the laryngoscope, the mirror being held in the reversed position. The patient is placed in the same position as for examining the larynx (see Diseases of the Larynx), but the tongue is not drawn out. The uvula is then dra^^l forward with a small curved spatula, or the patient may be told to breathe out. The mirror is then inserted till it is close to or touches the posterior wall of the pharynx. The handle may be slightly bent with the concavity of the curve towards the tongue. This method of examination or posterior rhinoscopy, as it is termed, is difficult, and it is seldom that much is learned from it. The posterior nares can be examined also digitally by pas-sing the finger behind the soft palate. Deviation of the Septum.—This may be the result of injury or a con- genital malfonnation. It is seldom of any importance, but should it exist to such an extent as to obstruct one nostril it may be necessary to remedy the deformity by operation. This may be done by forcibly bending the septum into its proper position by some blunt instrument passed up the nostril. Should this be impossible, the ])art of the cartilage obstructing the nostril may be cut away, care being taken not to remove so much as to cause sinking in of the nose. Chronic Catarrh, in the form of a thin watery mucous discharge, lasting for many months, is occasionally met with, more particularly in young women, indejKJudently of any structural disease of the mucous membrane, ’fhe Treai- mm\t of this affection consists in the employment of tonics and means calculated to strengthen the system generally, and the local application of astringents. Fig. 055.—Nasal Speculum. Fig. 056.—Frantzer.s Nasal Speculum.