DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. 1^54 The testis is often somewhat enlarged, especially'about the epididymis, and frequently slightly tender, more paiticularly in the early stages of the <‘omplaint. It is almost invariably situated in the posterior j)art oi‘ the sae (Fig. 0G2), but may sometimes be found towards its anterior part. AVlien this is the case, the epididymis will be found turned towaixls the front, owing to the organ being retroverted. If the hydrocele is of any size and temse, the testicle is lost in it. Its situation can then be recognized by some pain elicited by pressing on it, and by the opacity of the tumour at that point. A peculiar form of hydrocele is occasionally met with which extends through the external abdominal ring forming a large tumour in the region of the inguinal canal, between which and the scrotal swelling fluctuation can be felt. There is in this form a distinct impulse on coughing. It occurs in those cases in which the processus vaginalis testis has been obliterated only at the internal abdominal ring remaining patent below. Such cases are very rare and may resemble hernia, but they are easily distinguished by their trans- hicency, their irreducibility, their absolute dulness on percussion, and their distinct fluctuation. The Covmngs of a hydrocele are the same as those of the testis. Besides the integumental structures, aponeurotic prolongations from the intercolumnar and cremasteric fascise may be traced over the surface of the swelling (Fig. 963). Treatment.—The treatment of hydrocele is divided into the Palliative and Curative. By t\\Q palliative treatment the Surgeon seeks simply to relieve the patient of the annoyance induced by the bulk or weight of the tumour ; but the curative has for its object the permanent removal of the disease. The Palliative Treatment consists in the use of a suspensory bandage and cooling lotion, or in tapping with a fine trochar. These simple means, how- ever, will sometimes succeed in effecting a radical cure. Thus, in infants it will happen that the application of ev aporating and discutient lotions may remove the effused fluid ; and indeed it is seldom that auy other plan of treatment than this is required in young children. The best lotion for the purpose consists of one composed of 5j of chloride of ammonium, gj of spirits of wine, and 3viij of water ; with this the scrotum should be kept constantly wetted ; and, if there be a communication with the peritoneum, a truss should be kept applied over the external ring. In adults it occasionally happens that simple tapping of the tumour has effected a radical cure. Some years ago, a gentleman from Cuba consulted me for a small hydrocele which had been forming for several months ; I tapped it with a fine trochar, and drew off about five ounces of fluid. This was followed bv a radical cure. This case bears out «/ a remark made by Brodie, that the few instances in which he had known simple tapping to produce a radical cure occurred in West Indians. I have, however, several times seen hydroceles disappear after having been tapped a few times, without any other treatment, in persons who had never been in hot climates. This simple operation is not altogether, however, destitute of danger ; 1 have known an old man to die from inflammatory oedema of the scrotum after having been tapped, and tetanus also has followed this operation. After tapping, it usually happens that the hydrocele slowly forms again, attaining its former bulk at the end of about three months. Occasionally it will be found that the hydrocele returns more and more slowly after each tapping ; so that, by repeating this simple process at intervals of three, then six, then twelve months, the disease will finall}" disiippoar. This kind of