856 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. best means to be udopteci as the first effort at cure. It is not uncommonly followed by inflammation and suppuration of the cyst. Injection of iodine after withdrawing some of the fluid by the aspirator does not seem to present any advantages over simple aspiration. Drainage of the cyst by meaiis of a cannula inserted on a trochar and tied in lias been successful in some cases. It is always folloAved by suppuration, and is attended by considerable risk of peritonitis. Opening the cyst by caustics as recommended l>y Recainier was formerly frequently adopted, the object being to form adhesions between the opposed surfaces of the peritoneum before the cavity was reached. It is tedious and painful, and is now seldom adopted. Opening the cavity ivith removal of the acephalocyst was first performed l)y Lindemann of Hanover. He divided the abdominal wall by a vertical incision under antiseptic precautions, and exposed the surface of the liver. The wound was then held open and a number of fine sutures passed attaching the peri- toneum to the skin. Two strong threads were then passed through the cyst- wall parallel to the edge of the wound, by means of which it Avas drawn Avell out of the abdomen. It was then opened freely between the threads and cleaned out as far as possible. Finally the cyst-wall was closely sewn to the skin, a large drainage-tube inserted and an antiseptic dressing applied. This operation was recently performed in UniAnrsity College Hospital by R. J. Codlee. The patient went on Avell for three weeks, AAdien she died apparently from septicaemia. Volkmann advises that the operation should be" performed in two stages, the surface of the liver being first exposed, the wound plugged with carbolic gauze for five or six days till firm adhesions have formed between the liver and the parietal peritoneum, and the cyst is then opened and treated as above described. Further experience is yet Avanted to prove the safety of this operation, but it would seem hardly Avise to adopt such serious proceedings till simpler means have failed. A suppurating hydatid cyst must be treated in the same way as a liver • abscess. Diseases of the Call-bladder.—Dilatations of the gall-bladder, some- times of very great size, are occasionally met Avith as the result of impaction of a gall-stone in the cystic duct. As the impaction takes place before the junction of the cystic duct Avith the hepatic, there is no jamidice, and the fluid distending the cyst is not coloured with bile. Impaction in the common bile duct if unrelieved is fatal before any great dilatation takes j)lace. In some cases the distended gall-bladder has been known to inflame, suppu- rate, and discharge externally, leaving a fistulous opening through which gall-stones have been discharged. N^latoii advised that this should be anticipated by opening the gall-bladder by means of caustics, and states that he performed the operation. Handheld Jones suggested that the gall-bladder might be opened and the obstructing calculus removed from Avithiii it, and Marion Sims was the first to perform this operation, but without success ; in 1878, hoAvever, LaAVSon Tait successfully accomplished the remoA'al of the impacted gall-stone, and the patient made a rapid and complete recovery. II P 1 The diagnosis of distended gall-bladder is not ahvays possible. It is usually freely movable except at its upper attachment, and may resemble a renal tumour. The operation is performed on the same plan as that already described for the removal of a hydatid cyst.