ART EE IT IS DEFORMANS OR ATHEROMA. 87 t f i' I 1 •I* I I 1 d i i i I i rtiid is accompanied by some loss of toughness. The farther progress may be in one of two directions ; the growth may soften and break down, or it may calcify. AVhen softening takes place the patch becomes converted into a pultaceous or cheesy mass, and even sometimes undergoes complete liquefiiction into a yellow creamy fluid, whicli has been mistaken for true pus, and termed an “ atheromatoKs abscessF It is this change that led to the term atheroma being applied to the disease, the products of the softening of the patch resembling the contents of an atheromatous cyst of the skin. The term is now often extended to all stages of chronic endarteritis. When the process reaches the more advanced stages the middle coat is affected, first by chronic inflammation, and subsequently by softening. At the Siime time considerable thickening of the external coat takes place by the formation of dense fibroid tissue which is not prone to fatty degeneration and softening. Up to this stage the fatty patch is covered by the most internal layers of the intima and the endothelium, which are not affected by the chronic inflammatory process, but after complete softening these give way, and the atheromatous fluid is discharged into the circulation, leaving the remains of the patch exposed to the blood-stream. The raw surface thus formed is called “ an atheromatous ulcer.” The debris which enter the circulation are canled on and lodge in the capillaries, but not possessing any irritating pro- perties they give rise to no evil consequences. Although on the formation of an atheromatous ulcer a considerable part of the inner and middle coats are lost, perforation or rupture of the artery rarely takes place, and it is only in exceptional cases that the blood forces its way amongst the coats of the diseased vessel. This is due to the fact that at the margins of the patch, the chronic inflammatory process has led to firm matting together of the coats of the artery. At the same time the thickening and induration of the external coat prevents perforation. It is especially opposite the deeper and more eroded atheromatous patches that this consolidation of the external coat takes place. The change, although described as a chronic inflammation, is strictly conser- vative in character. The new growth of fibroid tissue is not confined to the external coat, but extends to the sheath of the vessel, and, by soldering it to the contained artery, greatly adds to the strength of the vascular Avail. Although perforation is thus prevented, the new tissue but imperfectly represents the normal structures of the coats of an artery, as it is entirely wanting in ela.sticity. Consequently it is very apt to yield slowly to the pressure of the blood, and thus lead to the formation of a sacculated aneurism, the mouth of Avhich Avill correspond to the damaged portion of the wall of the vessel. Complete softening, Avith the formation of an atheromatous ulcer, is not by any means a necessary consequence of fatty degeneration of the patches resulting from chronic endarteritis. In many cases the ncAV tissue, after degenerating, remains as a firm, yelloAV, opaque mass, and may undergo no further change, but most commonly lime salts are deposited in it, and it gradually becomes converted into a hard calcareous plate, over Avhich the superficial layers of the inner coat Avith the endothelium may remain un- broken. Sometimes, however, these seem to Avear aAvay and the calcareous plate comes in direct cf>ntact Avith tlie blood-stream, '.rhis ebange Avas for- merly described as '•‘ossification of the arteries,” but it need not be said that no tnie l)one is formed. From the arrangement of the calcareous matter in