II 6o6 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. the cornea. But, when an artificial eye was adjusted to tlie shrunken globe, the appearance of the patient was most satisfactory. Restoration of the lower eyelid in extreme ectropion Ijy complete trans- plantation of a piece of skin was introduced by Wolfe of Glasgow in 1875, since Avhich time it has been repeatedly performed with success. The opera- tion is thus performed : the eyelid is first freed from the abnormal situation into Avhich it has been di-aAvn until its free border can be Ijrought in contact with the upper lid, the tAvo lids then being tied together by sutures passed through them. An accurate pattern of the raAV surface to be covered is then taken, and a flap of skin is raised from the forearm corresponding in shape but a little larger to alloAV for shrinking. The under smTace of the flap is then fr-eed from every vestige of subcutaneous tissue Avith a pair of flat sharp Fig. 689.—Lower Eyelid deformed by Cicatrix. Fig. 690.—Lower Eyelid after Operation. scissors, so as to have a white appearance. It is then applied to the raAv surface and united to the surrounding skin by fine silk sutures. A dressing of warm Avet boracic acid lint may then be applied and covered by gutta- percha tissue and cotton-wool. About a fortnight after the operation, after the flap has become firmly adherent, the sutures uniting the lids may be removed and the eye allowed to open. In a case successfully operated on by AVolfe, the oval piece of skin transplanted measm’ed tAvo inches by one and a quarter. It united by first intention, without even desquamation of the cuticle taking place. PLASTIC SUKGBE.Y OF THE NOSE. Rhinoplastic Operations are occasionally required for the restoration of the form of the nose, which has been destroyed by injury or disease. This branch of plastic surgery has long received much attention, and has been reduced to distinct rules. Either the entire nose, or a portion of it, may demand operation. Columua.—When the columna and a portion of the septum are destroyed, a large gap is left at the nasal aperture ; and, the nose becoming flattened in consequence of its tip falling in, great deformity necessarily results. The upper lip also, losing that amount of support AAdiich it receiA'es from the columna, becomes pendulous, projecting, and thickened at the end, thus adding to the disfigurement. The restoration of the columna is effected from this thickened and prominent upper lip, Avhich, by being reduced in size, is rendered far more shapely. The operation consists in cutting through the AA'hole length of the lip from above doAvnAvards on each side of the mesial line, so as to leave a tongue about one-third of an inch in Avidth. This is then tm’ned up ; and its ends being Avell pared, and the under surface of the tip of the nose properly freshened, it is fixed by means of a fine hare-lip pin and