DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 4i6 cancellous bone elsewherc. When the disease commences in the bone tlie vessels of tlie medullary tissue are first dilated in the affected area (inflamma- tory congestion); the tissue next becomes infiltrated with small round cells before Avhich the normal structures disappear. Thus the cancellous spaces become filled with new cells, amongst wliich capillary loops may penetrate (granulation-tissue). The bony trabeculae enclosing the spaces are first thinned and finally completely absorbed by the advancing cell-growth; thus a portion of the cancellous tissue of the body of a vertebra may be de- stroyed, its place being occupied by granulation-tissue. These changes form an essential part of all varieties of caries ; the fate of the gi’anulation-tissue however, differs in different cases, the following being the chief modifications of the subsequent processes :— 1. The granulation-tissue replacing the cancellous bone may be absorbed apparently as the result of the pressure exerted upon it by the weight of the trunk. Thus a steadily progressive destruction of bone may take place without there being any extensive accumulation of granulation-tissue, and without the formation of pus. This dry caries, as it is tenned, is very common in the spine, being the process that takes place in those numerous cases of angulai’ curvature in which the patient escapes without the formation of an abscess. Its progress is sometimes very rapid, leading to great deformity in a very short time. 2. Instead of being absorbed the granulation-tissue may undergo fatty degeneration, and a slow process of suppuration, with the formation of curdy pus, may taJee place. The pus gradually accumulates, forming a chronic abscess, which slowly forces its way to the surface, following the lines of least resistance. 3. The granulation-tissue may caseate early, before the bony trabeculse are completely absorbed. The unabsorbed bone then perishes, forming sequestra. This necrotic caries is very common in the spine. 4. The granulation-tissue may calcify. This is not uncommon in the spine. It is said to be one mode of cure, especially when the disease is tubercular and the area affected very limited, the small calcified nodule lying harmlessly embedded in the surrounding bone. Small necrosed fragments of cancellous bone with its spaces filled with calcified inflammatory products, are sometimes met with in the discharge from abscesses connected with angular curvature of the spine. 5. Lastly, if all sources of irritation are removed, the rarefying osteitis may cease to extend, and the granulation-tissue become developed into bone, thus effecting a cure of the disease. The points at which caries most commonly commences, are first, in the growing tissue between the cartilaginous discs fonning the upper and lower parts of the body of the vertebra; secondly, beneath the periosteum in front; and, thirdly, in the central parts of the bone. The destructive process extends not only into the bone, but also, usually at an early period, into the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. As the disease com- mences most commonly between the epiphyseal cartilage and the bone, the thin layer of cartilage is soon destroyed by the same processes as are observed in the destruction of articular cartilage in chronic inflammations of joints (p. 342). The granulation-tissue then penetrates into the intervertebral disc, which is destroyed, after which the morbid process extends into the body of the next vertebra. t \ r V > I: r: ii li If; n K II ir h »r If U- ir if- It i; ill I)