AXi.’FK'S OPERATION FOR HYPOSPADIAS. 1133 dge of the urethral groove. The flap thus marked, ■which we will call the • iglit flap, is then dissected up, leaving it attached along the margin of the ethral groove. A similar flap in then raised on the left side, but on this ;ide the incision is carried along the left margin of the urethral gi’oove, and he flap turned outwards, its attached edge being in the position correspond- ing to the free edge of the right flap. The right flap is now turned over so :hat its skin surface forms the lining of the new urethra. A number of flue titches are then inserted in the following way. The needle is first passed jhrough the base of the left flap from the skin surface, then through the free .dge of the right flap from the raw surface toAvards the skin, then it is made CO catch the left edge of the urethral grooA'e, and finally passed again through :che base of the left flap. In this way the edge of the right flap is held in ;position. and the stitches can be removed from the surface. When these have ;:all been passed, they may be tightened. A similar number of stitches are then :passed through the free edge of the left flap, by which it is attached to the jskin of the penis at the outer edge of the raw surface from which the right 'flap Avas raised. The raw surfaces of the two flaps are thus brought closely iinto contact, and an epithelial lining formed for the new urethra. During :the healing, a catheter must be tied in, and the bladder drained. A small : fistulous opening Avill usually be left at the lower end, Avhich must be closed by a subsequent plastic operation. Several successful cases of this operation have been recorded, and it seems to be by far the most efficient of the many methods suggested. The third degree of hypospadias admits of no treatment. Epispadias.—The upper surface of the penis is less frequently fissured ; only, I believe, in cases of extroversion of the bladder. This condition, termed ejnspadias, may be remedied to some extent by Wood’s operation, described at p. 1U28. Phimosis.—The prepuce is not unfrequently the seat of malformation or disease. The condition of it in which it is so much elon- gated that it extends beyond the glans, and at the same time it is so much contracted that it prevents the proper exposure of this portion of the organ, is termed phimosis. This may be either congenital, or acquired as the result of inflammation or disease. In Congenital Phimosis, the penis is usually someAvhat atrophied, and the development of the glans is prevented by the pressure of the naiTOAv prepuce. The skin is abundant and lax ; but the mucous lining of the prepuce is short, contracted, and undeveloped. The constricting band which prevents the retraction of the foreskin is ahvays situated at the junction of the skin and the mucous membrane. In the majority of cases a long foreskin is simply a source of local inconvenience; but it may become a source of disease from a variety of causes. Thus, in children, retention of the sebaceous secretion—“smegma preputii ”—under an elongated and tight foreskin, becomes a source of local irritation and inflammation from decomposition. The irritation thus kept up (Fig. 1)41)), leads to local excitement, and favours the development of the liabit of early masturbation. In some cases the jweputial orifice is so tight as to interfere materially Avith the dischnr»-e of the urine, which passes from the urethra into a kind of pouch between the Fig. 040.—Irritatoil Congenital Plii- niosls.