SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. 922 are the chief points to be attended to ; l)nt in spite of every care these cases cannot always be distinguished from stone. The TreatmerU is a matter of considerable donbt. When abscess forms, early nephrotomy gives great relief, and certainly prolongs life ; but should nej^hrectomy be ever performed for this disease ? In the early stages, before the kidney is much enlarged, the diagnosis is so uncertain, even alter exctmination by an exploratory incision, that it could scarcely ever be justifiable to remove the organ. In the later stages, when both kidneys are afiected, as is almost invariably the case, an operation would evidently be useless, and probably fatal. The difficulties of the operation are also very great, as the kidney is usually firmly adherent to surrounding parts. On the whole, it seems advisable not to interfere with these cases excej^t by nephrotomy. Pyonephrosis from other causes than stone or tubercle is rare. It is occasionally met with as a sequel to gonorrhoea. In a case of this kind in University College Hospital the patient was completely cured by two aspira- tions, nearly a pint of pus being removed on each occasion. He died some years after, and the kidney was found to be reduced to a mere shrivelled mass of fibrous tissue. Hydronephrosis may be congenital, arising from a malformation of the ureter, or may occur as the result of partial or complete obstruction of the ureter by an impacted calculus, or by the pressure of a tumour. The early stages have already been described as the result of increased urinary tension : in exceptional cases only does the dilatation continue to increase till a large tumour is formed. The symptoms are those of a renal tumour, fluctuating distinctly and accompanied by little pain and no hEematuria. The diagnosis may be confirmed by aspiration and examination of the fluid withdrawn, which will be found to contain m’ea and uric acid. Treatment.—Aspiration can evidently be only of temporary service; neplu’O- tomy and drainage would probably be followed by an incm’able urinary fistula. Nephrectomy by the abdominal incision has been practised successfully, but probably the best treatment would be antiseptic drainage and subsequent lumbar nephrectomy. Tumours of the Kidney.—Single cysts are not uncommon in the kidney, but they seldom reach such a size as to call for surgical interference. Hydatid cysts are occasionally met with and may be recognized by the character of the fluid drawn off by the aspirator. The disease knovm as cystic lcid7iey is, however, an exception to this rule. In this disease the whole organ may ■ be converted into little more than a mass of cysts, _ varying in size from a pea to an orange. The kidney may thus form an enormous tumour, filling a great part of the abdomen and extending down to the pelvis. It is not uncommonly double, but one side is usually more affected than the other. These tumours seem to cause but little trouble beyond that arising from their size, and are often discovered only on the post-mortem table. Carcinoma and Sarcoma of the kidney are of moderately frequent occur- rence. The sarcomata are frequently met with in infants and young children. They are usually spindle-celled, but striated muscular fibre has been met with in many of the congenital specimens. Carcinoma is usually soft and rapidly growing, and occurs after middle life. These tumours increase quickly, some- times with little pain, in others with constant aching and nneasiness. The