329 ACUTE ARTIIRITIS—DIAGNOSIS—PATIIOLOGY. V whilst the other muscular structures of the limb preserve their normal conditions, another change takes place in them. They lose their electric inntability, and in fact become perfectly paralyzed. In the lower extremity, the leg cannot be extended, in the upper the arm cannot be raised. This condition is extremely chronic. It will last for many months after the joint-affection, from which it starts, has been cured, and may lead to per- mauent atrophy of the paralyzed muscles. The treatment consists in stimu- lation of the affected muscles, by sea-douches, electricity, and frictions, combined with methodical movements of the limb. Strychnine may be given with advantage when the lower limbs are affected. I have seen this reflex arthritic paralysis chiefly in persons suffering from spinal exhaustion in neurotic women and in men addicted to sexual excesses. Diagnosis.—Alscess may form external to, but in immediate contact with the capsule of a joint, and closely simulate disease of the articulation. In these cases the absence of serious constitutional disturbance, the irregularity of the swelling, greater on one side than the other, its extension over bony points, as the patella or olecranon, the superflcial character of the fluctuation, the absence of all rigidity about the joint or of that preternatural mobility in a hoiizontal direction which arises from softening of the ligaments, and of other severe local symptoms, such as pain, starting, looseness, or grating, will enable the Surgeon to effect a correct diagnosis. Pathology.—It is veiy rarely that the opportunity arises of examining a joint affected with acute arthritis before it has reached the stage of suppura- tion. In that stage aU the component parts of the joint will be found to present marked changes, varying somewhat with the cause and the degree of acuteness of the inflammatory process. The foUowmg may be taken as the appearances in a typical case. The synovial membrane is thickened and intensely injected; if the disease has advanced beyond the earliest stage, the membrane is no longer recognizable as such, being converted into a layer of granulation-tissue, the site of the fringes being marked by fleshy vascular projections of the same tissue. The granulations are seldom healthy; most commonly they present the same appearance as those on the surface of an inflamed ulcer of the leg, being covered by a dirty yellowish layer composed of degenerated granulation-cells held together by coagulated inflammatory exudation. If the joint have been opened, and decomposition of the discharges has taken place, the diseased syno\ial membrane may be covered by opaque membranous patches almost resembling a diphtheritic membrane. In the later stages of arthritis, the granulations covering the opposed surfaces of any pouches of the synovial membrane will be found to have coalesced, the cavity of the joint being in this way to a great extent obliterated. ^licroscopic examination of the disea.sed membrane shows only the ordinary appearances of inflammation. The endothelial cells covering the membrane have disappeared, the fibrous layer is first infiltrated with new cells, before which the original tissue more or less completely disappears. In the layer of round cells thus formed, new vessels are developed, and gi’anulation-tissue is thus produced. The contents of the synovial cavity arc in the very earliest stages composed Df thin pus mixed with synovia, but as the membrane very soon ceases to field its normal secretion, the fluid assumes the charactci’s of ordinary pus.