226 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. tho abdomen. The fatal termination may be due to gradual exhaustion from pain and interference with the functions of the abdominal viscera, to sudden rupture of the sac into the peritoneum or subperitoneal tissue, or into some part of the alimentary canal, or, more rarely, into the jjleural cavity through the dia])hragm. The Diagnosis rests chiefly on tho situation of the tumour, its distinct expansile pulsation, the existence of an aneurismal bruit, and the pressure- signs. Very marlced epigastric pulsation is not an nnfrequent symjjtom in anmmic patients snifering from atonic dyspepsia, and in these cases very slight pressure on the artery from a stethoscope will give rise to a distinct bruit. Under these circumstances, it is sometimes not easy to speak positively as to the condition of the artery, but in the majority of cases a careful exami- nation under the influence of chloroform will readily determine the nature of the disease. A displaced or enlarged heart also gives rise to distinct epigastric pulsation, but this can hardly be mistaken for aneurism. A solid mass of fceces accumulated in the transverse colon may receive a very distinct impulse from the aorta, but the doughy feel of the mass, its superficial nature, and the history of the case, will usually readily determine its nature. A p>rominent lumlar vertebra also pushing the aorta forward may simulate a dilatation of the artery. Cancerous lumbar glands surrounding the artery may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis; and here again a careful examination under chloroform is the most likely means of arriving at a correct conclusion. Can- cerous tumours growing from the bones may give rise to almost insuperable difficulties in the diagnosis. From tumours of the various abdominal viscera., the diagnosis must be made on general principles. The amount of fat in the abdominal walls necessarily has a great influence on the difficulty or ease of coming to a definite conclusion. Treatment.—In all cases of aneurism of the abdominal aorta, constitutional treatment should be given a fair trial before any more severe measures are adopted. Tufnell has recorded two cases in which a cure was effected by diet and rest—in one case in 21 days, and in the other in 37. If this treatment fail, the only resource left is compression of the abdominal aorta. The pain of this application is usually very severe, so that, in order to relieve it, patients should be kept under the influence of chloroform for many hours. The credit of introducing this mode of treatment is undoubtedly due to Mm-ray of Newcastle-on-Tyne. The operation has now been performed for aortic aneurism in nine cases. In six, under Murray, Durham and Moxon, Dm’ham, Greenhow and Hulke, Pollock, and Sir James Paget, the pressure was applied on the proximal side of the sac. Of these, three—Murray’s, Durham and Moxon’s, and Greenhow and Hulke’s—were successful; one. Pollock’s failed ; and two, Durham’s second case, and Sir James Paget’s, were fatal. In three the pressure; was applied on the distal side of the sac ; one, under Bryant, terminated fiitally, and the other two, under Marshall and Barwell, failed. In every case the pressure has been applied by the instrument known in this country as Lister’s aortic tourniquet. That this instrument may in some cases be safely applied to the||, abdominal aorta from the highest point at which the artery can be reached to f its bifurcation, is clearly proved by results of the cases above mentioned. In (: Durham and Moxon’s case, it is stated that “ by positioning the lx)dy of the patient, just sufficient space was afforded for the introduction of the pad of the iJ tourniquet between the cartilages of the ribs and the aneurism.” In Greenhow