URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. 1024 tag-c of prolonging the patient’s sufferings. In tlie aljsence of a proper urethral dilator, it is always easy to dilate the canal by means of the finger. With this view a director is first passed, and along this the Surgeon gradually insinuates the tip of his finger, and then soon succeeds in expanding the uretlu-a suffi- ciently for all ordinary purposes. 1). Dilatation may be employed conjointly with incision, in order to prevent injurious stretching of the urethra, and consequent laceration of its mucous membrane. The incision should be made after the urethra has been dilated to some extent, a probe-pointed bistoury being introduced by the side of the canal, and the mucous membrane divided. Brodie made an incisioii directly upwards : Liston downwards and outwards on each side—on the whole, I think, the best direction for the incisions, as more space may thus be obtained. By dilatation, either alone or with incision of the mucous membrane, small stones may readily be extracted; and those calculi that are formed by the phos- phatic incrustation of foreign bodies, may be removed in this way. I have thus extracted, by dilatation, a full-sized gum-elastic bougie from the bladder of a young woman. In the removal of moderate-sized calculi, however, the great objection to this operation is the liability to incontinence of urine resulting from it. It is difficult to say to what extent the urethra may be dilated without incontinence resulting; this must necessarily vary in different individuals. It certainly can be expanded sufficiently to allow the introduc- tion of the index-finger, and the extraction of a stone eight or ten lines in diameter, without any evil resulting. The incontinence of urine that may be left after the removal of larger calculi than this may not be by any means complete ; but a weakened state of the sphincter of the bladder results, so that the patient cannot hold her urine for more than an hour or two at the most. 2. Lithotomy in the female may be performed in .a variety of ways. There are, however, only three modes of practising this operation that appear to me to deserve serious attention; viz., the Sujprapubic, the Urethral, and the Vaginal. The Suprapubic or high operation in women differs in no very material respect from the same procedure in men; except that it requires additional care in consequence of the difficulty there is in causing the female bladder to retain enough urine or water to make the viscus rise sufficiently above the pubes. The extraction of the stone is easy, as it can be raised into the grasp of the forceps by being pushed up from the vagina. Urethral Lithotomy is a very simple and efficient operation. It consists in placing the patient in the lithotomy position, and tying her up. A grooved staff is then introduced into the bladder, and a sharp-pointed bistoury, guided by it, is pushed through the floor of the urethra, about an inch and a half from the meatus, the canal being divided directly downwards. The forceps may then be readily canded into the bladder, and a calculus of good size removed. After the bladder has been cleared, a full-sized catheter should be introduced, and left in the bladder, and the cut edges of the urethra brought together over it by two or three points of silver suture. Vaginal Lithotomy is an operation easy of performance. It may i)e practised by passing a straight grooved staff' into the bladder, pressing the end well down against the anterior wall of the vagina, and fixing it there with the