499 TENOTOMY. or peripheral disease or irritation that admits of remedy. Thus, if squinting arise fi’om pressure upon the brain, the eye will assume its straight direction when the congested vessels are relieved, or the efl'used fluid absorbed ; or if a contraction of the hamstring muscles arises from the in’itation of worms in the intestinal canal, a purgative dose may cure the affection. Electricity is perhaps the most valuable agent we possess for the treatment of those deformities that arise from paralysis of one set of muscles allowing those that retain their healthy contractility to draw the parts over to their side. Thus, for instance, if the muscles supplied by the external poplitea nerve, the tibialis anticus, the extensors of the toes, and the peronei—are paralysed, so that the muscles of the calf, the tibialis posticus, and the flexors of the toes di-aw the foot into the position of Talipes Equinus and Yarns, the electricity must be applied to the former group of muscles. The continuous cun’ent will be found the most efficient, faradization being of but little use if degenerative changes have commenced in the paralysed muscles. In the case just described the sponge connected with the positive pole should be tied over the external popliteal nerve behind the head of the fibula, and the negative sponge applied freely over the paralysed muscles till the skin becomes slightly reddened.* Friction properly applied forms a useful adjunct to electricity, and great care must be taken to keep the limb warm by proper clothing, without which the other treatment will be of little avail. In many cases, the contraction may be slowly but very efiPectually overcome by the use of suitable apparatus, having a constant elastic or tensive action kept up by means of bands of vulcanized india-rubber or steel springs. The details of these various appliances, though belonging to the department of the instrument-maker, cannot be too carefully studied by the Surgeon, who, after all, in order to guide and control their action, must be thoroughly conver- sant with the mechanical principles involved in their construction. In many of the slighter and less chronic cases, the deformity may be remedied by the employment of these milder means, singly or conjoined ; but in those which are congenital or more permanent, the Division of the Tendons at fault is the only mode of restoring the natural condition of the part. This orthopczdic department of surgery owes, in a great measure, its existence to the labours of Delpech and Stromeyer, and its perfection to those of Little, Tamplin, and Adams. Tenotomy.—By tenotomy, as at present practised, is meant the subcu- taneous division of a contracted tendon by means of a naiTow-bladed knife (Figs. 018, 019, 020) introduced obliquely through a puncture by its side. In doing this, it should be borne in mind that the normal anatomical relations of parts are often a good deal disturbed in cases of deformity : and thus tendons may be approximated to arteries and nerves, from which, in the healthy condition of the limb, they are widely separated. In the operation of tenotomy the knife may be used in one of two ways. In the majority of cases the tendon may be most conveniently divided by in- troducing the blade beneath it sideways, and then turning the edge against it, and scratching through it by a kind of fine sawing movement, the handle of * P'oT (Intails of the trentiiient of iniralysetl imiHclnn by electricity, I mint refer the reader to special works on the subject, especially " F.lectricity in Medicine and SurKery,” by G. V. Poore, and the selection rrniii the Works of Uuchenne (of lioulogne), published by the Xcw Sydenham Society in 18S4. K K 2