1148 mSEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS. Inflammation of the Testicle, consideriiio- the organ as a whole, may be of two distinct kinds, varying as to seat and as to cause. Thus it may be seated in the body of the organ, constituting Orchitis; or the epididymis may alone be affected, constituting Epithdyrmtis. As to cause, it may be rheumatic, traumatic, or gonorrhoeal, or may occur as a sequela of mumps. Acute Inflammation.^—The Scat of the inflammation, at the commence- ment of the disease, de^Dends greatly upon the cause, which may be in the urinary passages or elsewhere. Irritation in any part of the urethra, occa- sioned by the passage of instruments, by the lodgment of calculi, or by gonorrhoeal inflammation, usually causes the epididymis to be primarily affected, and the body of the organ to be inflamed in a secondary manner. AYhen, on the other hand, the inflammation comes on from injuries, blows, strains, or other causes acting on the testis as a Avhole, the body is usually hrst affected. To all this, however, exceptions ivill often occur ; and orchitis may supervene as the result of gonorrhoea, or epididymitis from a blow. The orchitis in such cases is in all probability a kind of constitutional affection, intimately associated with inflammation of other fibrous tissues, especially with gonorrhoeal rheumatism ; the inflammation of the epididymis, arising from gonorrhoea or other irritation of the urinary passage, appearing to result from direct extension of morbid process along the vas deferens. Symptoms.—These necessarily vary to a certain extent, not only according as the disease is of an acute or of a chronic character, but as it primarily affects the body of the testis or the epididymis. When it commences in the latter structure, it is the inferior globus that is commonly first affected, which becomes swollen, hard, and tender. The disease may be confined throughout to this part; but most frequently it invades the whole of the organ, which becomes uniformly enlarged and somewhat ovoid ; it is frequently accompanied by a good deal of effusion into the tunica vaginalis, then constituting the Acute Hijdrocele of Velpeau. As the inflammation subsides, the different characters presented by the enlargement of the two constituents of the organ again l)ecome apparent. The swelling is therefore due partly to general enlarge- ment of the organ, but in some cases to inflammatory effusion into the tunica vaginalis ; and this exudation may either be j)urely serous or partly coagulable. The pain is always very severe, with much tenderness and a sensation of ^veight, and commonly extends up the cord into the groin and loin. It is generally greatest when the body of the testis is affected, owing probably to the enveloping fibrous tunic preventing the expansion of the organ. Hence it is often spasmodic and paroxysmal, extending up the course of the cord. Tffiere are usually considerable swelling and redness of the scrotum, with turgescence of the scrotal veins, and a congested state of the cord, with sharp pyrexia, nausea, and perhaps occasional vomiting. As the disease subsides, the body of the testis first resumes its normal character and shape, the epididymis often continuing hardened and enlarged for a considerable period. In fact, the induration that forms in the epidi- dymis may be permanent, implicating the whole or a i3ortion of its coii3 olutions. Gosselin has shown that this induration of the epididymis following inflam- mation frequently causes complete obstruction of the canal, and if occurring on