1192 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. require to be treated in the way that iias been mentioned at p. 1084, Vol. J I. When they are of a simj)lc nature, proceeding from mere excessive secretion of these parts, astringent injections, and attention to the general health, will usually succeed in effecting a cure, \agixal ] )ischakges of a purulent character not unfrequently occur in young female children, as the result of constitutional debility or strumous derangement. Occasionally such discharges lead to the suspicion of the child having been improperly tampered with ; and, although they may of course be ttccasioned by some violence inflicted on the genitals, or even from gonorrhoeal infection, it must be borne in mind that, in the great majority of instances, they certainly arise from constitutional conditions solely, and are in no way re- ferable to external causes. The Treatment consists in attention to cleanliness, the use of warm lead-lotions, and improvement of the general health. Discharges dependent upon unhealthy conditions of the cervix and lining membrane of the uterus usually require special treatment, for the details of which the reader may best refer to w^orks devoted to the Diseases of Women ; Avhere a consideration of the nature and management of uterine displacements also will be found. TUMOUBS OF THE UTEBUS. The so-called Fibroid, or, more correctly, Fibro-myomatous growths, con- stitute by far the most common form of uterine tumour. These occim either singly, or as multiple formations affecting chiefly the fundus and body of the uterus. As a rule they develope slowly, and in the majority of instances give rise to no symptoms calling for surgical treatment; but occasionally active interference is necessitated in consequence of danger to life arising from oiie > or more of the following conditions, viz., persistent and uncontrollable uterine I hmmorrhage ; rapid increase in the size of the tumour (sometimes due to cystic degeneration) ; or constant and severe pain caused by pressure. |j The ordinary classification adopted of subperitoneal, intramural, and sub- > mucous growths, may conveniently be followed in considering the surgical ff treatment of these tumours. ^ (1.) The subperitoneal variety, wdien unaccompanied by much coexistent en- largement of the uterine body, is not uncommonly met with as a more or less distinctly pedunculated growth springing from the fundus. If of moderate size, this may readily be removed on abdominal section by securing the pedicle with a trans^ing ligature of stout silk previous to division, and then suturing the cut edges of its peritoneal investment across the surface of the stump. In cases, however, in which a tumour, often of very large size, is composed of a multiple mass of sul)peritoneal outgrowths, invoh'iug closely the uterine body, the operation of hysterectomy is to be had recourse to. This procedure, in- volving the ablation of the entire mass of the tumour, including the body of the uterus together wdth the ovaries and tubes, has recently come to be regarded as the most satisfactory mode of dealing with such cases. Tlie oiwration is ])erformed as follows :—The tumour, liaving been turned out of the al)dominal cavity, is held up l)y an assistant, Avhile the Surgeon encircles the uterus, usually at about the level of the junction of the body and ceiA'ix, with a soft iron wire connected with a small ccraseur known as Ivoeberle's serre-nand. hen- eA cr possible, the ovaries and tubes should be included in the loop ; while care is required that no portion of intestine be nipped by it. and that the bladder