TUMO UR—TREA TMENT. 317 aneurism by anastomosis. In such cases, however, the history of the progress of the disease will do more to elucidate its true nature than anything else. Having ascertained the presence of a tumour, it remains to determine the nature of the growth. In many cases this cannot be done. If the tumour is of slow growth, very firm, of considerable size, lobnlated on the surface, very clearly defined, and immovably fixed to the bone, it may bo a simple enchon- droma. If, Avith the same symptoms, however, it is of more rapid gTowth, it mav be a sarcoma developing into cartilage. The distinction is very impor- tant if it can be made, for a simple chondroma is an innocent tumour, and the Surgeon in removing it may carry his knife close to the growth, but a chondri- ; fyiug sarcoma is usually very malignant, and amputation must be done high aboA'e it. Unfortunately the distinction is often impossible. When the tumour is central and situated at an articular end of a long bone, especially the upper , . end of the tibia, the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the humerus or the lower end of the ulna, or on the lower jaw, the chances are greatly in favour of its being a myeloid or giant-celled sarcoma. According to Gross, I nearly 70 per cent, of the central tumours of the long bones are of this natiue. } Myeloid tumours are often somewhat globular in form, and cysts are very ! common in them. They commonly occur between 25 and 35, and grow ! slowly without affecting the constitution. When the central tumour affects the shaft of a bone it is probably one of the more malignant sarcomata, either round-celled, spindle-celled or mixed, myeloid being very rare in this situation. The peripheral sarcomata cannot he clearly distinguished from each other, i iMyeloid never commences superficially, and may therefore be excluded. If ! the lymphatic glands are affected, it is most probably a round-celled sarcoma, the spindle-celled form very rarely spreading in this way. All forms of peripheral sarcoma may equally implicate the suiTounding soft parts. In distinguishing between the benign and malignant tumours, Paget directs attention to the following points. 1. The age of the patient. If below puberty or past middle life the tumour is probably malignant, unless it be a I common exostosis. 2. The age of the tumour. If of more than two years’ duration, it is probably not malignant. 3. If a tumour of bone have doubled i its size in six months, not being inflamed, it is probably malignant. ‘ Treatment.—Tumours of bone are necessarily beyond the reach of con- I stitutional or local resolvents. Surgeons are consequently obliged to resort to operative interference. If the tumour be simple, it may be possible to remove 1 it in some cases by gouging or cutting it out, but if it be one of the malignant ! sarcomata, the only safe course consists in removing the whole bone from which it springs. If from the localized nature of the growth, its origin at an f articular end of a bone, and its central position, there is reason to believe that it is a myeloid or giant-celled sarcoma, it may be sufficient to remove the part of the bone only from which it gi-ows. In the leg this necessitates amputation, but in the lower end of the radius it is sometimes possible to excise the affected part of the bone without removing the limb. In tumours of the lower jaw it is seldom necessary to remove more than half the bone at most. If part of the bone only be removed, the sawn surface and medullary canal must be carefully examined, and if it does not appear healthy more must be cut aivay. If the tumour be peripheral, or if it be a central sarcoma of any kind other than myeloid, no means avail except the complete removal of the diseased bone.