PREPARATION OF THE PATIENT FOR LITHOTOMY. 949 ; elastic, well roiinded at the end, and provided with silver rings, and may l)e i petticoated. The searcher is a slightly curved sound, having a bulbous ex- tremity (Fig. 850). The syringe should be provided with Gross’s ball nozzle, • which propels a revei’sed current. ; In describing the operation of lithotomy, Ave shall first of all examine I seriatim the different steps of an operation that presents no unusual complica- Fig. S46.— Fig. 84(5.— Forceps. Curved Forceps. Fig. 847.— Scoop in Handle. Fig. 848.— Fig. 849. Fig. 850.— 8cooi>. Staff. Searcher. i tion or difficulty ; we shall then consider the difficulties that may be met with, the accidents that may occur during the operation, and the principal soui’ces of danger and the causes of death after its performance. Preparation of the Patient.—Before subjecting a patient to operation, ' his general health must be properly attended to ; and, indeed, if we find the constitution much broken by prolonged suffering, the bladder or kidneys seriously diseased, as indicated by the existence of pus or albumen in large quantity in his urine, and by the presence of the symptoms of interstitial •nephritis (pp. 912—014), it will be wise to postpone the operation for a time, or [perhaps even to abandon it altogether. There are feAV conditions in which a 'Surgeon is placed, that test his moral courage more severely than the refusal ■ to operate on a patient for stone, and thus allowing him to die unrelieA'ed. For a Surgeon to do this, unmoved by the entreaties of the patient and of his friends, requires no little self-reliance. Yet, when the patient is greatly •emaciated, his constitution broken down, and his kidneys evidently much diseased, lithotomy Avould be attended by an inevitably and rapidly fatal result, >and the performance of an operation Avould be a useless act of cruelty. ^Supposing, however, that the stone is of moderate size, that evidence of renal disease is absent or slight, that there is no visceral complication to prevent the perfonnance of the operation, and that the patient’s health is in a tolerably good state, it Avill bo necessary to subject him only to proper preparative treatment for a short time, so as to allay or remove irritability of the urinary organs before proceeding Avith it. "With this vioAV he should be 4 ^ kept as quiet as possible for about a week or ten days preceding the operation ; s