EXCISION OF JOINTS. 386 advantageous positions ; and, in raising the flexor and extensor tendons they -f' must be disturbed as little as possible. it’ After-treatme7it.—The radial wound may be closely united with sutares. The : *■ ulnar wound may be closed at each end, but the middle of the wouud is to be kept | u open by means of an india-rubber drainage-tube to allow free exit of discharge. | The hand is to be placed on a splint. The most convenient is a simple wooden || splint, “ with an obtuse-angled piece of thick cork ” stuck on it so as to maintain ij Fig. 547.—Hand after Excision of Wrist, laid on Splint. the hand in a state of semi-flexion, with the wrist slightly extended (Fig. 546). The thumb is supported by a bar of cork stuck on the under surface so as to project at the side (Fig. 547). The two great objects in after-treatment are to get the Angers perfectly movable and the wrist flim. For these purposes passive motion must be commenced as early as the second day in the fingers, each being bent and extended every day fully, while the wrist is kept firmly on the splint and disturbed as little as possible during the treatment of the fingers. Special care must be taken to flex the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, which are very apt to remain stiff. Pronation and supination must not be too long neglected. Passive motion must be maintained as long as there is any tendency to the formation of adhesions in the sheaths of the tendons. As the hand becomes stronger, the part of the splint supporting the fingers may be cut off. The patient must continue some support as long as he feels any weakness in the wrist. There if often some tendency to dropping of the uwist to the ulnar side, which is best counteracted by a properly constructed gutta-percha splint. The thumb is apt to be drawn in towards the index finger; this must be prevented by a thick pad of lint kept from the earhest time between the two. The essential points are, first, exact attention to all the details of the opera- tion, and next, a careful and patiently conducted after-treatment. Results.—Since Lister described his method of operating, excision of the wrist for disease has become a recognized operation of Surgery, and has been practised successfully by West (five cases), Gillespie, and many other Surgeons. In military surgery, however, according to the statistics of the American war, the results of the operation have been far from encouraging in regard to the amount of mobility left to the hand. Hand.—In the removal of diseased or injm’ed portions of the hand, it is, as