DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 746 out made to vary according to the situation and size of the tumour, and tlie amount of integument that requires removal. In all cases, the ni])ple should he included. In ordinary cases, as a general rule, I prefer an oblique incision following the course of the fibres of tlie great pectoral muscle ; as it enables the Surgeon, if necessary, to extend the cut into the axilla for the removal of enlarged glands, and, after cicatrization, allows the movements of the arm without undue traction. An oblique elliptical incision, of sufficient length, may thus be made, first below, and next above the nipple, so as to include a sufficient quantity of integument (Fig. 77G). In some cases, where the skin is somewhat involved, a transverse incision may be made in addition to this, so as to include the affected integument in a triangular manner. AVhen the tumour is very large and prominent, a double vertical incision may very con- veniently include the nipple and the most suspicious parts of the skin. The dissection should then be steadily carried down to the pectoral muscle, every bleeding vessel being immediately seized in forcipressure forceps, and the breast removed with the cellular bed in which it lies. "When the tumour is of large size, and especially if it be of simple character, this part of the operation jj;./ may be done very expeditiously by drawing down the mass and touching the areolar tissue with the scalpel, when the whole tumour will peel off the pec- toral muscle, and can readily be detached. After the removal of the diseased breast, it and the tumour, as well as the whole interior of the wound, must be carefully examined, to ascertain that no slices of morbid tissue have been left behind; if so, they must be freely cut out; and if, as sometimes happens, the growth be rather firmly adherent to the pectoral muscle or subjacent structures, portions of these must also be removed. I Fig. 776.—Position of Patient in Ainiiutation of Breast. The clearing out of the axilla adds greatly to the severity and immediate , danger of the operation. Should there be enlarged lymphatic glands, or should ' the Surgeon adopt the course of clearing out the axilla even when diseased glands cannot be felt, this may be done by extending the oblique incision upwards as ; far as may be necessary. It will often, however, be found more convenient to perform the operation in the following way. An oval incision, the long I diameter of which is placed transversely to the trunk, may be made to inclu c j the breast, and as much skin as it is intended to remove. From tlic outer end of this an incision may be carried to the outer border of the axilla, in tic line of the long diameter of the oval incision. Another incision is carric