1036 DISEASES OF THE HL ADD Eli. plmtcs passed at the end of micturition may cause sevei-e pain, with a constant desire to i>ass water, lasting' for an Imur oi- less. It passes olf as soon as the alkaline-tide in the urine has passed (p. IPJd). In ijoui, irritability of the bladder is not unfiW|uently met with. This may in some cases be owing to the acid character of the urine ; in others, to the excitation of a distinct gouty inflammation of the bladder and prostate co-existing or alternating Avith the articular form of the disease. -1. Fenal Disease, more particularly the lodgment of a stone in the kidiiev Avill often occasion sympathetic pains in the Idadder, Avith much irritability of that organ, so as closely to simulate vesical disease, or even to lead to a suspicion of the existence of stone in the bladder. Tuberculous pyelitis Avill giA'e rise to similar symptoms, in fact in some cases the frequency of mictu- rition may be greater than in almost any other affection of the urinary organs. 8. Disease of the Bladder itself, as a chronically inflamed state of its mucous membrane, aauII give rise to pain and irritation on the accumulation of a small quantity of urine, with a frequent desire for its expulsion. So, also, AA'hen the interior of the organ is fasciculated, or sacculated, and more especially if there be a tumour in a state of ulceration, a degree of morbid irritability Arill be induced, often of the most severe and intractable kind. 4. The Lodrjment of a Stone in the Bladder Avill ahyays, by its mechanical action, by its AA'eight and pressure, by rolling about when the body is iu motion, iiTitate the interior of the organ ; and, in fact, the “ rational symj)- toms ” of stone in the bladder are simply those of irritability of that organ. 5. Inflammation, Ulceration, Abscess, Tubercle, or othei' Diseases of the Prostate, and inflammation, gonorrheal or simple, and abscess or stricture of the deeper portions of the urethra, also not unfrequently occasion irritability of the bladder. G. Various Diseases in Neighbouring Organs will occasion this conditioiL Amongst the most frequent are fissure and ulcer of the rectum and anus, piles, prolapsus, intestinal Avorms, gall-stones, and A’^aricocele. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of irritability of the bladder is made by the patient himself ; but it is often a matter of no little difficulty to the Simgeon to ascertain the precise cause of that irritability. This can of course be done only by a careful surgical exploration of the Avhole of the urinary organs, and often of the neighbouring parts ; no mere inquiry into the nature of the symptoms can do more than establish the fact of the existence of “ imtability of the bladder,” and aflbrd some evidence of a negative kind as to the absence of certain causes. But nothing short of a careful surgical exploration by means of the catheter, finger, and sound, of the urethra, prostate, and bladder, can enable the practitioner to state with absolute certainty on Avhat this condition of irritability depends. I haA'e repeatedly seen cases of stone in the bladder, and of prostatic disease, vainly treated by medical means for months as cases of simple “ irritability of the bladder the existence of the real cause of the symptoms having been overlooked altogether, until a proper surgical examina- tion of the lu'inary organs was instituted. So closely, in fact, do the symptoms of vesical irritation, arising from gout, or sympathetic with kidney- disease, simulate those that are occasioned by stone in the bladder, that it is impossible for the most experienced medical practitioner to refer them aatUi certainty to the right cause Avithout exploring this cavity. 1 have knoAvu