484 DISEASES OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES that becomes fistulous, and may degenerate into a most troublesome indolent sore. Trealment.—In the treatment of this aifection, the first thing to be done is to relieve the pressure on the part by wearing properly shaped lx)ots, made with the inner side of the sole straight from the toe to the heel. If accidental inflammation be excited in the part, it must be allayed by the use of warm foot-baths, and fomentations; the cutaneous irritation that is left may best be removed by painting the surface with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. The faulty direction of the toe may best be remedied by using the ingenious contrivance (Fig. G03), the action of which consists in drawing the everted end of the toe inwards by the constant action of a slender steel spring. Should these means fiiil, the position of the toe may be remedied by the division of the external lateral ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, or of the tendon of the adductor pollicis, or of the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis ; the toe, when restored to its position, being for a time kept fixed upon an under-splint. As these methods of treatment are, however, seldom successful, it has been suggested by C. Hoar, late House Surgeon to University College Hospital, to perform antiseptic osteotomy of the metatarsal bone of the great toe through the neck of the bone. This operation has been most successfully performed by A. E. Barker in one case, and deserves a further trial. Barker removed a small wedge-shaped piece from the inner side of the metatarsal bone, and fracturing the remainder, brought the toe at once into good position. Occasionally in elderly people the bunion will inflame and suppurate, and the mischief, extending to the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, will cause disorganization of the joint. This is a state of things not devoid of anxiety, as it not unfrequently happens that, if the constitutional powers be enfeebled by age, a low sloughy erysipelatous inflammation may be set up in the foot, which eventually may terminate fatally. Should the joint be irretrievably disor- ganized, and the patient’s strength admit it, the toe should be removed by amputation—after which the carious head of the metatarsal bone will usually heal without difficulty. DISEASES OF SHEATHS OP TENDONS. The synovial sheath of a tendon is liable to two forms of disease ; viz., the development of a small sac in immediate connection with it, forming a cystic tumour ; and acute and chronic inflammation or tenosynovitis. The tendons of the hand are most liable to both these affections. Ganglion.—The term ganglion is applied to both these conditions, and thus leads to some confusion. The simiAe ganglion is a small cyst of new forma- tion in close connection witli a synovial sheath ; the compound is a dilatation of the sheatli itself, and is a consequence of chronic tenosynovitis. Simple Ganglion consists of a cyst varying in size from a cherry-stone to a large marble, and containing sometimes a clear transparent fluid of a yellowish colour, but more commonly a pinkish or yellowish gelatinous sub- stance. It occurs as a smooth, globular, elastic, and tense tumour, usually situated on the back of the wrist, where it forms a distinct round projec- tion ; it may occur also on the dorsum of the foot. In both situations it is distinctly connected with the sheaths of the extensor tendons. As the ganglion