798 HERNIA. earlier stag-es of the digestive process, and the loss of nutritive material by the discharge of the chyme, is proportionally great. Spontaneous cure will occasionally take place, even though a perfect artificial aims exist. In a case under my care at the Hospital, a whole knuckle of intestine Avas gangrenous and sloughed away, leaA’ing an artificial anus, Avhich discharged the greater part of the intestinal contents, but gradually contracted and closed Avithout any local application or treatment beyond attention to cleanliness. If the aperture become a permanent artificial anus, surgical means must be adopted in order, if possible, to effect a cure. Many plans ha\"e been suggested for effecting this object, the tAAm most important being Dupuytren’s operation and suture of the gut, with or Avithout removal of a portion. In Dupuytren’s oiDeration two important indications have to be fulfilled : the first is to diminish or destroy the projecting Anlvular or spur-like process, and thus to re-establish the continuity of the canal ; and, after this has been done, the external wound may be closed, by paring its edges, and bringing them together Avith hare-lip pins. The first object is best accomplished by Dupuytren’s enteroiome, (Fig. 792) : this consists of an instrument something like a pair of scissors, with blunt but serrated blades, which may be brought together by acting upon a screw that traverses its handle. One blade of the instrument {d) is passed into the upper, the other (&) into the lower portion of the intestine ; they are then approxi- mated slowly, and fixed by means of the screw in such a way as to compress on each side the spur-like process (Fig. 793). Very gradually, day by day, this screw is tightened so as to induce sloughing of this projection, and cohesion of its serous surfaces. As this process goes on, the irritation caused by the instru- ment will occasion inflammatory exudation in the angle formed by the intes- tine, so that the peritoneum and mesentery become consolidated, and all opening into the peritoneal cavity is avoided. Should the spur-like process be accidentally cut through before the lymph is throAvn out in sufficient quantity, the peritoneum A\muld be opened, and death Avould probably ensue ; hence the necessity for caution in this procedure. So soon as the blades of the instrument have come into contact, and the spur-like process has consequently sloughed away, the great obstacle to the closure of the artificial anus Avill be removed ; and tlie continuity of the canal being thus re-established, the Fig. 792.—Dupuytren’s Enterotome. Fig. 793.—Enterotome applied.