UMRNIA. 760 straiii^nlated, a very consiclcral)Ic bulk of liquid has becii met Avith ; J have seen as much as a pint escape from a large hernia in an c.ld man.' 'When abundant, in strangulated or inflamed hernia, it is generally of a hrowiiisli colour, though clear and transparent; it is met with in fargest quantities in inguinal hernias. Hydx’ocele of the Hernial Sac.—In some instances the fluid hecomes collected in a kind of cyst Avithin the sac, formed by the omentum contracting adhesions to its upper part, and leaving space below for the fluid to collect^: this condition, represented in the annexed draAving (Fig. 78;3), has been called Hydrocele of ihe Hernial and constitutes a someAvhat rare form of disease. The fluid is often in considerable quantity ; in a ease AA'hich I tapped some years ago, nearly three pints of dark-broAA'ii liquid had tlius accumulated, and Avere draAAUi off. If Ave limit the term hydrocele of the hernial me to those cases in which there is a slow and gradual accu- mulation of fluid at the bottom of an old hernial sac. which has been cut off fi’om all communication with the peritoneum either by the radical cure of the hernia, or by the adhesion of intestine or omentum to the upper part and neck of the sac, it must be con- sidered a rare disease; and but few cases are recorded by surgical writers. Curling, in his work on the Testis, states that, during his connection AAuth the London Hospital, he saAA' only one case ; and the only others with Avhich I am acquainted, besides one that occurred in my own practice, are two related by Pott, two by Pelletan, one by Boyer, and one by LaAvrence. This disease must not be confounded with the accumulation of fluid, in whatever quantity, in strangulated heraia. or in hernial sacs that communicate with the peritoneal cavity. Its dis- tinguishing feature is the accumulation of fluid in a sac that has been cut off from all communication with the cavity of the peritoneum. An Accumulation of Ascitic Fluid in a Hernial Sac may occur Avlicii hernia is complicated Avith dropsy of the peritoneum. In one case of this kind AAdiich occurred in my practice at University College Hospital, the heniia. Avhich Avas femoral, in a AAmman, Avas Amry tightly strangulated, as large as a shaddock, A'ery tense, with distinct fluctuation ; the skin covering it being much stretched, this was peculiarly evident. On opening the sac, fluid flowed in a jet, as if a hydrocele had been punctured, and about four inches of strangled gut were found lying at the bottom of the sac. After dividing the stricture, serous fluid in large quantity continued to drain from the peritoneal caA'ity for several hours after the operation. An Accumulation of Fluid in a Hernial Sac which has been oblite- rated at its neck is occasionally met with, chiefly in the femoral region. .V case of this kind occurred not long ago in Univei’sity College Hospital. The patient, a middle aged Avoman, Avas suddenly seized Avith pain in the abdomen and bilious vomiting. On examining the groin a tense rounded tumour wa<« found in the region of a femoral hernia. It AAms free from tenderness and fluctuated indistinctly. On cutting doAvn upon it, it was foimd to be an old hernial sac distended with clear serous fluid, but without solid contents. \