5” G ENU VALGUM—THE A TMENT. the deformity disappears. In some cases the lowering of the inner condyle is due to a rickety curve in the femur immediately above the articular end. in extreme cases of knock-knee the joint is often capable of some egitc o o^el extension, the leg at the same time rotating outwards. Tmihnent.—h^Q treatment consists, in the slighter cases, in applying an apparatus consisting of a well-padded iron stem along the outside o t le eg and thigh ; this must extend from the trochanter to the outer ankle, being fixed to a pelvic band at the upper part, and into a boot below (Fig. 031). Where it coiTesponds to the knee it should be provided with a hinge, anc should have a broad well-padded strap pass- ing fi’om its under side, over the inner side of the joint, and attached by buckles to the upper part of the stem, in such a way that bv tighteuiug these the knee may be drawn outwards. This apparatus should be constantly worn for many months ; and, if properly adapted, may effect a cui’e. AVhen the deformity is of old standing, and the parts about the outer side of the joint very tense, the biceps tendon may require division. In doing this, care must be taken not to injure the external popliteal nerve. In some cases the vastus externus and contiguous portion of the fascia lata also may be advantageously divided, and the apparatus then applied as directed. In those cases in which the alteration in the bones is such that there is no hope of restoring Fig. 631.—Apparatus for Knock-knee, the limb to its natural position by the simple means above described, the patient must be submitted to some operative procedure, or left to endure his defoiTuity unrelieved. During the last few years numerous methods have been devised, wnth the object of straightening the limb. The simplest of these is that of Delore of Lyons. It consists simply in forcibly straightening the limb ; the leg being extended, the Surgeon places his knee against the prominent inner condyle, and grasping the ankle in one hand and the upper part of the femur in the other, he gradually applies sufficient force to bring the limb straight. He continues the force from five minutes to half an hour, till the object is attained. The limb at last yields, a sensation of something tearing being felt. Delore states that the lower epiphysis of the femur is separated, but what actually takes place is somewhat uncertain, and must be left to chance. This method of treatment has been veiy successful in its inventor’s hands, but in this country it has not yielded results equal to those obtained by antiseptic osteotomy. Antiseptic osteotomy has for its object the restoration of the lengthened inner condyle to its normal level. It is impossible here to do more than mention many of the methods that have been employed with this object. In 187.0, Annandalc opened the joint and removed the prominent portion of the inner condyle with the saw'. This bold operation was completely successful, but since the introduction of simpler methods it has not bceai repeated. In