I 12 ANEURISM. of the extravasatecl and seini-coagnlated Ijlood upon its vessels, inoi'c particularly the large venous trunks. In consequence of tliis, gangrene of a moist kind usually makes its appearance, and speedily destroys the patient’s life. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of aneurism may in many cases be effected with the greatest possible ease by a student in surgery; in other instances it requires a vast amount of care, and the most experienced judgment, to come to a correct conclusion as to the nature of the tumour. This is easily done when the aneu- rism is superficial, recent, and circumscribed, the blood in it being fluid, and all the signs of the disease well marked. The diagnosis is often replete with difficulty when the aneurism is deeply seated, or, if external, when it is old and filled with coagiila ; also, if acute inflammation or suppuration have taken place about it, or if it have become diffused. In effecting the diagnosis of aneurism we have, in the first place, to ascertain the existence or absence of a tumour; and, after this has been done, to ascertain whether it be aneurismal or of some other character. Both points, the latter especially, are difficult to determine in internal aneurisms; in the external, the doubt is not as to the presence of a tumour, but as to its nature. The tumours with which aneurisms may be confounded may conveniently be divided into two classes—those that do and those that do not pulsate. Every pulsating tumour is not an aneurism. Thus there may be pulsation in various kinds of enc&phaloid tumour or soft sarcoma, or in growths composed of ncevoid tissue. In such cases as these, many of the signs of aneurism are present ; thus the size of the tumour may be diminished by compression, and the distinct influx of blood into it may be felt on the re- moval of the pressure, the tumour returning to its oilginal size with a soft swelling pulsation : there may also be a bruit, often of a loud and distinct character. But these tumours may generally be distinguished from aneurisms in not being quite so distinctly circumscribed—in being soft, spongy, and elastic, without the sensation of fluid that is met with in some forms of aneurism, or of solid coagnla that occurs in others. Again, the bruit is either soft, blowing, and more prolonged, or else sharp and superficial; the pulsation, also, is not so distinct, and is more of the nature of a general swelling and heaving of the tumour than of a distinct thump. Much light is occa- sionally thrown upon these affections by their being met with in situations where aneurism cannot occur, from the absence of any arteries of sufficient size to give rise to it, as, for instance, on the head of the tibia or the side of the pelvis ; but if a tumour of this kind be situated upon or under a large artery in the usual site of an aneurism, then the diagnosis is certainly replete with difficulty, and cannot indeed in many cases be made. Several instances have occurred, in which Surgeons of the greatest skill and experience (as Guthrie and Stanley) have ligatured arteries on the supposition that they had to do with aneurism, when in reality it was one of the pulsating tumours just mentioned that closely simulated it. Pulsation may be communicated to a tumour of a fluid character seated upon an artery ; here the diagnosis, though often difficult, is more readily made than in the last case. Attention to the history of the case, to the im- possibility of diminishing the tumour by pressure, either directly upon it or on the artery leading to it, its fluctuation, and want of circumscriptiou, will usually point out its nature. Especial attention should likewise be paid to the