345 RUE UMA TO 12) A RTIIRITIS. il til r.i.' 'h f' u ;ir - :■!! ■ ji'' ■|r i: The pulpy gi'anulation-tissue may then be scraped out as far as possible with a sharp spoon. If the incision be free enough, it is seldom necessary to introduce a drainage tube. The iodoform or salicylic wool dressing will be found most useful in many cases, and a small quantity of iodoform may with advantage be introduced into the cavity of the abscess. The dressing will usually require changing after the first day or two, as it becomes soaked by the early discharge, but after this it may frequently be left untouched for one or two weeks, or even a month, unless some discharge soaks through it. If these materials are not at hand, any of the forms of antiseptic dressing described in the Chapter on "Wounds (Vol. I.), may be employed. Poultices should not be applied, as they favour decomposition and increase the suppura- tion, and the patient’s general health will suffer from the exhausting discharge, and hectic may come on. After suppiuntion has taken place, if the joint can be preserved, the subsequent utility of the limb will depend mainly upon the position in which it is allowed to become ankylosed. In many cases, in spite of treatment, especially in the children of the poor, the disease slowly progresses, leading to complete destruction of the joint. Under these circumstances, excision or amputation is the only resource. CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS, ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. By these terms is meant a chronic disease of the joints of a progressive character—painful, disabling, deforming, and incurable. This disease has long attracted the attention of physicians, and has been described as “rheumatic :gout,” “nodosity of joints,” and “deforming arthritis.” But little was really : known of its true nature until its pathology was studied by Professor R. •Adams and Pt. W. Smith of Dublin, who accurately described it under the : name of “ chronic rheumatic arthritis.” More recently. Dr. Garrod has added much to our knowledge of this disease, and has proposed for it the more accurate name of “rheumatoid arthritis.” When it gives rise to much i distortion of limb and deformity of joint, as often happens when the hands are chronically affected by it, the name of “arthritis deformans” is given ■ to it. This disease may commence in any joint, and may continue limited to it, or may extend from one to the other until most of the larger articulations are involved. It commences usually in the joints of the limbs, and may continue to be confined to them, or it may primarily attack the temporo-maxillary articu- -lations or those of the spinal column. It occurs in both sexes with tolerably ’equal frequency. But some joints appear to be more liable in one sex than in the other. Thus the hip in the male, the knee in the female, is more commonly the seat of the malady. Rheumatoid Arthritis is essentially a disease of middle age: when once it sets in it will continue for an indefinite period, far into old age. Rheumatoid Arthritis may affect one or two joints symmetrically, especially when it occurs in persons otherwise healthy and past middle life. It is then |-nsnally wjiifined to the larger articulations. In other cases it may attack a number of joints, including the smaller articulations, such as those of the fingers. This form is often tenned ^^olyarficiiJar rheumatoid arthritis, to dis- tinguish it from the more limited or monarthritic affection. It often leads to