1062 J)ISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. should be given. If the symptoms of clironic cystitis make their appearance the various remedies recommended in the treatment of that disease may lx; given. If hicmorrlinge occur, tincture of ])erchloride of iron, infusion of uva ursi, or gallic acid, will be useful. Counter-irritation, the application of iodine, and other measures calculated to promote absorption of the enlar'^-ed gland, are not of the slightest service. Various operative procedures have been recommended and practised by Mercier and others for the removal of the mechanical obstruction caused by the enlarged prostate, but they are both inefficient and dangerous, and have been almost unanimously condemned. In fact, the sole treatment of enlarged prostate consists in the regular use of the catheter, in order to draw off retained urine ; and when once this treat- ment has been commenced, it must be continued for the remainder of life, the patient being taught to use the instrument for himself. It is especially necessary to empty the pouch that forms in the has fond of the bladder behind the prostate ; and which, being below the level of the urethra, tends to collect an accumulation of viscid mucus and fetid urine which the patient cannot expel without aid, partly from their gravitating into this pouch, and partly from the muscular power of the organ being impaired. The removal of these matters is of great importance; as they may, by undergoing putrefaction, give rise to septic infection. The bladder should be effectually emptied at least twice every day. By far the most convenient instrument in the majority of Fig. 915.—Eltowed Catheter. cases is the soft French “ elbowed ” catheter—the “ catheter a coude,” of the size and shape here represented (Fig. 915). The stem is soft and pliable, but the angle and e^^ed point are made of firm gum-catheter material. By keejDing the point well up against the urethra, it will often slip in very easily and smoothly in cases of enlarged prostate. These catheters are made with their points bent at different angles or with double elbows, instead of single, and veiy often when one will not pass, another of a slightly different form will slip in readily. The size of the instrument is of some importance. As a rule, No. 8 or 9 passes most readily. There is nothing gained by using a smaller instrument, as the passage through the diseased prostate, althoughr it obstructs the flow of urine, is always larger than that through a healthy gland. If the coude catheter does not pass, a flexible india-rubber catheter may often be of use. Hutchinson states “ that in almost all cases of prostatic retention, a flexible India-rubber catheter without a stylet can be passed into the bladder.” Its use is so perfectly painless and free from danger, that it may always be tried before adopting more severe measures. If from any cause it be necessary to retain such an instrument, Hutchinson uses a nozzle with rings passed into the orifice of the India-rubber catheter, and fitted with a “ styletted plug.” The nozzle is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and is fitted accurately by the plug. The stylet reaches about two inches