546 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. patient. In strumous cases, codliver-oil and iodide of iron are most useful. \Vlien necrosis occurs, it must )je treated as described below. Necrosis not iinfrequently occurs in the loose bony structures lying in the nasal fossm or in the nasal bones themselves. In these cases the septum nasi participates in the morbid process, and commonly separates oi' is peiforated. Necrosis may occur in these situations either as the result of syj)hilis, the abuse of mercury, or from external injury. I have, however, seen cases, moi'e particular!}'- in Avomcn and children, which are not referrible to any of these causes, or indeed to any other external exciting cause, and in which scrofula was probably the occasion of the disease. The p>resence of the necrosis may be suspected from the great foetor that infects the breath—the characteristic odour of dead bone being emitted, but in an excessive degree ; and its existence may always be positively determined by exploration of the nasal cavities with a probe. The Treaiment is simple, and must be conducted on ordinary medical and surgical principles. If the general health be impaired, or if the disease be specific, approjDriate alternative constitutional treatment must be adopted. The feetor may be lessened by the nasal douche and antiseptic applications. So soon as the bone is loosened, it must be extracted with polypus-forceps, coming away in soft black crumbling, offensive masses. There is often! abundant hmmorrhage after this extraction, but I have only once seen seriou trouble result from this cause. The patient, who was of intemperate habits,] suffered from extensive destruction of the hard palate and bones of the nose An attempt was made to remove a sequestrum when a sudden gush of bloo' took place which rapidly proved fatal, partly by entering the lungs and parti from syncope. If hemorrhage occurs, plugging will in most cases easily arrest it. In cases of obstinate ozena in which necrosis is suspected, or in which the sequestra cannot be removed by the nostril, Eouge, of Lausanne, recom- mends that the nasal cavity should be opened by an incision made frorc the mouth at the reflection of the mucous membrane from the gums to the upper lip. The cartilages are separated, and the septum cut through with strong scissors sufficiently to allow the upper lip and nose to be pulled upward for a sufficient distance to thoroughly expose the nasal cavity. By remo\Tnc sequestra in this way. Rouge cured several cases of most obstinate oz^ena After the operation the nose is rejjlaced, and no scar or other deformit results. Calculi, or Rhinolitlis, are occasionally met with in the nasal fossfe where they simulate foreign bodies, and may keep up considerable irritatioi and offensive discharge ; and here extraction may be practised with a pair o forceps. But sometimes they are situated under the mucous membrane. Ii two cases I have dissected round calcareous bodies of this kind, of about th size of cherry-stones, from under the mucous membrane of the ala of thi nostril in children. Epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, is very common in children and i young people about the age of puberty, more particularly in girls, antecedent! to the menstrual period ; it may either be active or passive, but is most usual! dependent on congestion of the mucous membrane. But in the adult it more serious, and it may then be associated with and dependent on two ver opposite conditions—either on a state of plethora with tendency to cerebr