759 COXTEJ'JS OF THE SAC, 1 ^(1 “I rej^ion, it becomes displaced in old lieriiitc, being dragged down by the weight {]. 4)t*the protrusion, usually towards the mesial line. The subserous areolar : tissue always becomes greatly thickened, often indurated, so as to constitute f j j one ot‘ the densest investments of the sac, and, in some old cases of hernia, rlosely to resemble omentum. The more superficial structures, such as the || integument and fascia, are much elongated and stretched ; often tense, but I not unfrequently hanging in folds ; they are usually thinned, but, if a truss have been long worn, they become thickened and condensed by the pressure i)f the pad. Contents.—The contents of tlie sac vary greatly ; every viscus except the pancreas having been found in a hernial tumour. Most ft-equently a portion of the S/m/l Intestine, more particularly of the ileum, is protruded, constituting the form of hernia called Enterocele. The quantity of intestine within the ■ i^jic mav vary from a small section of the calibre of the gut, the whole diameter not being included, to a coil several feet in length, with its attached mesentery. ..After a portion of the intestine has once descended, the protruded part tends i :o increase in quantity ; until, as in some large and old herniae, the gi’eater jii-x)rtion has been known to lie in the sac. The Large Intestim is rarely e| bund in a hernia, though the caecum is occasionally met with. When in- i .estine has been long protruded, it usually becomes thickened, narrowed, prreyish on the surface, and more or less deranged in its functions. The nt •orresponding mesentery becomes thickened, hypertrophied, and vascular. Omentum is often found in hernial sacs, together with intestine ; but is not i t infrequently met with alone, constituting Epiplocele. After having been irotruded for some time it becomes thickened, brawny, and laminated, losing >ts ordinary cellulo-adipose texture, and becoming indurated. Its veins usually ^issume a somewhat varicose condition ; and the mass of omentmn becomes riangular, the apex being upwards at the abdominal aperture, and the base II Kjlow, broad and expanded. In some cases it can be unfolded ; in others, it a!'s matted together into a cylindrical mass. Occasionally apertures form in it, » hrough which a coil of intestine may protrude, thus becoming secondarily B ; trangulated within the sac. In other instances, cysts are met with in it cA '.ontaining fluid. When intestine and omentum together are found in a lemia, the disease is termed an Entero-epiplocele; and in these circum- tances the omentum usually descends in front of and occasionally envelops he intestine. Besides these, the ordinary contents of hernim, the stomach, iver, spleen, sigmoid flexure of the colon, bladder, uterus, and ovaries, have 11 been found in them. In a case described by Scanzoni, the gravid uterus nd ovaries were enclosed in the sac of an inguinal hernia. Adhesions commonly form within the sac in old-standing cases. These may ake place Ijetween the contained viscera merely, as between two coils of intes- ine, or between these and the omentnm ; or they may form between the wall f the sac and its contents, either by broad bands, or else by bridging across rom one side to the other, and inclosing a portion of the viscera. In recent s-ases these adhesions are soft, and may readily be broken down ; but when of jnger duration, they are often very dense, and are especially firm about the leck of the sac. Besides the viscera, the hernial sac ahvays contains a certain quantity of ftuid ecrcted by and lubricating its interior. In most cases, this is in but small aiinantity; but in some instances, when the sac is inflamed, or the hernia