1038 ])fSEASES OF THE BLADDER. of tlio ordinary symptoms of stone nrc present. On sounding the bladder it will bo found roughened, fasciculated, and often containing sabulous matters mixed with; mucus. Occasionally, though rarely, tubercular disease of the urinary tract is met with in children. It presents'the same appearances as in the adult. Irritable bladder in children is A'ery frequently due to thread- worms in the rectum, which should always be sought for in all doubtful cases. More rarely it may arise from the presence of a polypus. The Treatment consists in removal of the cause Avhen this is possible, hi the strumous affection of the mucous membrane, if the urine be foul, the bladder must if possible be cleaned out as in the adult, should the child be old enough for this to be done. The bladder may also be Avashed out from time to time with a Aveak solution of nitrate of silver. Beyond this tlie treatment consists in attention to the general improA^ement of the health, in the remoAml of intestinal irritation, in the regulation of the digestive func- tions, and in the administration of copaiba in small doses, either alone or con- joined with a feAv minims of liquor potassm. Irritability of the Bladder in Women often simulates stone so closely, that it is only after very careful sounding that the Surgeon is satisfied that no calculus exists. This condition may arise from a variety of causes, similar to those described at p. 1035, as occasioning irritability of the male bladder. There are some conditions, hoAvever, in which it occurs, that are peculiar to AAmmen. 1. It may be a truly neurotic or hysterical affection. 2. It is often sympathetic : being connected AAuth some local disease of the genito-urinary organs, Avith a vascular tumour at the meatus of the urethra, or Avith some congestive affection of the uterus, Avhich will require to be cured before the bladder can be brought into a sound state. 3. Prolapsus of the anterior wall of the vagina, drawing doAvn the correspondipg portion of the bladder, will keep up this condition ; if so, the prolapsus must be cured by some plastic operative procedure. In all circumstances, hoAvmver, when this state has once been set up, it is A^ery difficult to remove.* 4. In many cases it is undoubtedly due to the irritation produced by a morbid state of the urine, dependent on mal-assimilation, and usually connected with an excess of lithates. In cases of this kind, careful regulation of diet, and the administration of potash with henbane, will afford much relief; but the com- plaint is of a very intractable nature, and under the most careful treatment Avill often continue for years. 5. In strumous girls it may be due to a con- gested, thickened, and irritated state of the vesical mucous membrane, similar to that which is met with in other parts of the body, as the eyelids, nose, and throat. It is commonly associated A\dth a mnco-purulent discharge from the vulva. In cases such as these, the patient requires to be put upon a general anti-strumons treatment, and the bladder should be mopped out with a very strong solution of the nitrate of sihmr. This is best done by dilating the urethra, passing a silver tube into the bladder, and then through it a small sponge-probang charged with the solution. ATONY OF THE BLADDEH. By Atony of tlie Bladder is meant such a degree of weakness of tiiis organ that its poAver of emptying itself is partially or AAdiolly lost. It is in the great majority of cases a condition of old age, and is not to be confounded