REPAIR AFTER EXCISION. 363 I i I -1' t I i> » I i is likely to occasion osteomyelitis and pya3inia, and is not a safe measure until the constitutional disturbance has been relieved by making free incisions, and providing good drainage. These incisions should be so placed as not to interfere with subsequent excision. Again, if the constitution appear to be very much broken down, the patient being anrnmic, wasted or cachectic, especially if there be an evening elevation of temperature with no suppuration in the joint to account for it, excision of the larger joints, as the knee and hip, is not desirable, as it is very probable that the patient is suffering from general tuberculosis. If the patient be very highly strumous, or decidedly phthisical, there will be little prospect of his being able to bear up through the long convalescence that often follows resection. The earlier stages of pul- monary phthisis, if unaccompanied by distinct elevation of temperature, need not be a bar to the operation. In such cases I have several times had occasion to observe that the general health improved rapidly after removal of the local disease. Extensive albuminoid degeneration of the liver and other viscera is always a serious obstacle to excision, although amputation may sometimes be safely practised. 5. The extremes of life are unfavourable to resections. In very early child- hood, these operations are seldom necessary ; the natural processes usually sufficing, with very little assistance, to eliminate diseased bone, and the dis- organized joints admitting readily enough of ankylosis. If the disease be too severe for this, it will usually be found to be associated with so strumous a constitution as to interfere with healthy reparative action of any kind. Another serious objection to these operations in young children is that, should the epiphyses be removed, the development of the limb will be to a great extent arrested. At advanced periods of life, destructive joint-disease is not very common, and when it does happen, it is generally in constitutions not fitted to stand up against the prolonged di’ain consequent on these operations. It is at the early adult age, when the diseases most frequently occur that rendei’ resections necessaiy, that these operations are best borne. Repair after Excision.—The mode of repair after resection differs according to the circumstances of the operation. When, as very commonly happens in cases of necrosis, the periosteum, thickened, infiltrated, and loosened, can readily be detached, or, indeed, is already separated, without injury to itself, from the dead bone, reproduction of new osseous tissue to a very considerable extent may be expected. My own observations on the fibula, tibia, and uhia, and those of Ollier and Maisonneuve, prove the importance of the periosteum as an organ of repair after the extrac- tion of a dead shaft or bone from within it. Repair in this way is, I believe, chiefly to be looked for in the shafts of the long bones ; although some Surgeons, as Annandale of Edinburgh, have described the os calcis as having been reproduced after subperiosteal excision. The remarkable osteogenetic properties possessed by the periosteum have been fully and conclusively esta- blished by the experiments and observations of Ollier. He has shown that a bone is much more rapidly and perfectly reproduced after removal, if the periosteum be left, than if it be removed, and he states that the osteogenetic properties of this membrane are greater in the long than in the short bones. He is of opinion also that resectioiis performed by the subperiosteal method leave better results, so far as the shape and foi’ination of the new joint are concenied, than if this membrane be sacrificed. These observations, indeed