786 HERNIA. Division of the Stricture.—The next point in the operation is the division of the stricture ; and this requires considerable care, lest injury be done to the neighbouring- parts of importance, or the gut l>e woupded. Vessels and structures in the vicinity of the stricture are avoided by dividing it in a proper direction, in accordance with ordinary anatomical considerations, which will be described when we come to speak of the special forms of ruptm-e. All injury to the intestine is prevented by introducing the index finger of the left hand up to the seat of stricture, insinuating the finger-nail underneath it, and divid- ing the constriction by means of a hernia-knife, having a very lunited cutting edge (Fig. 789). If a director be used to guide the knife, the intestine will be in considerable danger, as the instrument may be slid under that portion of it which lies beneath the stricture ; or the tense gut, curling over the side of the groove, may come into contact with the edge of the knife. These accidents are prevented by using the finger as a director, and shpping the hernia-knife (which should not have quite so long a probe-point as those usually made) along the palmar surface of the finger, upon its flat side (as re- presented in Fig. 790): the finger serves to keep the bowel out of the way, and detects any part that may be interposed between the edge of the knife and the stricture. During the division of the stricture, the protruding portions of intestine must be protected from the knife. The operator may spread his left hand over them in such a way that they cannot be touched by the edge of the instrument: or they may be protected by an attentive and careful assistant. In some cases the stricture is so tight that it is at first almost impossible to get the edge of the nail underneath it. The Surgeon will, however, gene- rally succeed in doing so, by directing his assistant to draw down the coil of intestine, so as to loosen it, as it were, from undeimeath the stricture ; he will then usually succeed in passing his finger up in the middle of the coil, where the mesentery lies. So soon as the blunt end of the hernia-knife has been passed under the stricture, its sharp edge must be turned up, and the con- striction divided in a proper direction, to a very limited extent, from one- eighth to a quarter of an inch. Reduction.—The intestine and omentum, having been examined, minst he dealt with according to the condition in which they are found ; as will he described at pp. 790—793, Vol. II. If these structures be sulficituitly healthy to admit of reduction, the intestine should first of all be replaced. This lnu^ Fig. 790.—Mode of using the Hernia-knife.