1174 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND COED. of the new growth commence to undergo degeneration ; until, in the yellow jiart of the gumma, nothing hut granulai- debris are to be recognized. The giimmata may be distinguished from tubercle by their greater toughness and more opaque yellow colour. Tubercle is rarely limited to the body of the testes ; gummata, on the other hand, rarely affect the epididymis. Prognosis.—If the disease be recognized and treated early, complete recovery may be confidently hoped for ; although relapses are of frequent occurrence. In the more advanced stages, the prognosis is not so hopeful, for, althougli © fo . \ '0 , ', f, a*" f O k- * a ®:. 2 k- Fig. 976.—SjqAilitic Testis, n. Tabuli Semiiiiferi: 7). A pai-t of the round-celled growth beginning to undergo fatty degeneration (ISO diain.) under proper treatment the new growth may be absorbed, the gland will re- main shrunken, puckered, and indurated. This is but what would be expected; as the tubuli seminiferi, as above stated, become more or less extensively destroyed by the pressure of the new growth in the later stages of the disease. The Treatment is that laid down in Chapter XXXYI. for constitutional syphilis. Locally, the hydrocele may be tapped (but on no account injected), and jiressure may be applied, by strapping over some mercurial ointment. Diagnosis of the Simple, Tubercular, and Syphilitic Sarcoceles.— The diagnosis of these affections is in some cases easy, in others very difficult. Whatever the form of disease may be, if it be complicated by hydrocele, this must first be tapped in order that the gland may be accurately examined. The hydrocele in these cases may not be translucent, as the tunica vaginalis is often thickened. It must be remembered that hydrocele is a very rare complication of cancer, or of cystic sarcoma ; it is rare with tubercular sarcocele ; less rare with simple chronic orchitis, and very common with syphilitic disease. From ha3matocele and tumours, the diagnosis may be made by attention to the rules laid down on p. 1181. It having been determined that the swelling is due to one of the three above-mentioned causes, it remains to ascertain which it is. This may be done by attention to the following points. The cord is often thickened and tender in simple chronic orchitis ; in tubercular sarcocele, the. vas deferens alone is affected, being frequently considerably enlarged ; in syphilis the cord is perfectly healthy. In simple chronic orchitis, the epidi- dymis may be swollen, but the chief enlargement is in the body; in tubercular