284 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. without tlic formation of pus, the disease is termed dry caries or caries sicca. Ill dry caries the gTanulatioii-tissue may be partly absorlied and partly developed into new bone, if recoveiy takes place without the formation of pus at any stage of the disease. Thus, in many cases of recovery from caries of the spine we find the whole body of a vertebra has disappeared, those above and below it having come in contact with each other and become firmly united by new bone (see Caries of the Spine). When suppuration takes place the process is usually slow, the result being the formation of a chronic abscess with thick, curdy pus, which gradually advances towards the surface. A large proportion of all chronic abscesses met with in surgical practice arise in this way. When the abscess opens on the surface, exposing the diseased bone to the air, the process is sometimes spoken of as ope?i caries. It frequently happens that caseation of the inflammatory products or chronic suppuration takes place before the cancellous bone has been completely destroyed in the rarefactive process. The unabsorbed fragments then being cut oft fi’om their nutrition perish, and we thus get the condition known a.s caries necrotica or necrotic caries. The fragments of dead bone may be of considerable size, forming large sequestra surrounded by carious bone, or may be so small as merely to give a gritty feel to the degenerated granulation-tissue in which they are lying. Caries necrotica is frequently associated with tubercle. General Appearances of Carious Bone.—On examining a macerated specimen of carious bone it will be found to be much more porous and fragile than natural, the cancelli being thinned and the spaces enlarged. Here and there cavities will be seen where the cancelli have been completely destroyed and the spaces have coalesced. In these cavities loose pieces of dead bone may be lying. A fresh specimen shows the following appearances proceeding from the circumference to the centre of the carious patch. The earliest morbid change is increased vascularity of the medullary tissue, which is redder than natural ; the next change observed is that the normal fatty or dark red semi-fluid maiTow has become replaced by pink gelatinous granulation-tissue, and that the cancelli are becoming thinned. Hearer the centre the bony cancelli entirely disappear, and the new tissue becomes opaque and pale yellow from fatty degeneration. In the centre it may form a caseous mass, softening in parts into a thick, curdy, puriform fluid. Even in cases in which there is every reason to believe the process is tubercular, and in which the micro- scope shows the anatomical appeai’ances of the tubercle follicles, grey granu- lations are seldom to be recognized. If they are seen they are more likely to be found near the circumference where they have not yet been con- cealed by the fiirther inflammatory changes around them. Caries necrotica presents the same appearances, with the addition of fragments of dead bone, mixed with the degenerating inflammatory products. If these are decom- posing they will be black or grey in colour ; if not, they are Avhite. If the process have been very chronic, small patches of opaque white bone may be found, in which calcification has taken place in the inflammatory products filling the cancelli. In simple or dry caries the same appearances are found, but there is no fatty degeneration. The granulation-tissue maintains its pink gelatinous appearance throughout. In all cases of caries the neighbouring periosteum is swollen and thickened