394 EXCISION OF JOINTS. I the joint then opened, and the bones sawn. Others advise that the patella be always removed. Volkmaiin i-ecommends a straight incision, passing from one condyle of the femur to the other, transversely across the middle of the patella, Avhich is then saAvn through, so as to expose the joint. After the articular ends of the femur and tibia have been removed, the fragments of the patella are united to each other by sutures of catgut, carbolized silk or wire. If its articular surface is diseased it must be sliced off or scraped. The results obtained by this method are very good; the patella readily unites by bone, and either remains movable or becomes fixed to the femur. The attachment of the quadriceps extensor and ligamentum patellae being undisturljed, the ten- dency to displacement of the tibia backwards after the operation is counter- acted, and in Avalking the action of the rectus in bringing the limb forwards is preserved. E. Davy of the Westminster Hospital has very ingeniously and successfully modified the operation of excision of the knee-joint by uniting the bones on the “Tenon and Mortice” principle, thus securing more solid bony ankylosis. He cuts the end of the femur into a wedge-shape, constituting the tenon, and cuts out a mortice in the upper end of the tibia, into which the wedged-shaped end of the femur is driven, and maintained with absolute fixity by means of a Avire splint Avith foot-piece. This is disturbed as little as possible mitil firm union is established. After the ends of the bones have been removed, in cases of white swelling, the pulpy granulation-tissue representing the synovial membrane must be cleaned away as completely as possible, partly by scraping Avith a sharp spoon and partly by the use of scissors and forceps. Some caution is necessary in cleaning the posterior part of the joint to avoid wounding the popliteal vessels. The healing of the wound is much facilitated and the subsequent suppuration diminished by this proceeding. If sinuses existed before the operation, they may be scraped and cleaned Avith a solution of chloride of zinc. In order to keep the bones in position some Surgeons drill them obliquely at the anterior part and secure them by a couple of strong sutures of catgut, carbolized silk or wire. Strong catgut answers the pm’pose very weU, and Avill not soften for about tAvo weeks, after Avhich time it is no longer needed. If the wound is not aseptic wire-sutures are the best, if any be used. It is very important that all hsemorrhage should be thoroughly arrested before the wound is closed. In some cases no ligatures will be required, but usually two or three of the articular arteries furnish sufficient hjemorrhage to require restraint. The flap Avhen laid down will often appear inconveniently long and thick, but it must not be curtailed as it will eventually contract and fit well. As a rule drainage-tubes are not necessary, and the flap having iw tendency to become displaced, only requires a few sutures to hold it m position. The result of the operation will depend mainly on the care taken in the after-treatment and in the successful prevention of decomposition in the discharges. It is essential for success that the limb should be kept at perfect rest for the first few Aveeks ; any apparatus, therefore, which requires complete removal for dressing the Avound should be avoided. A narrow splint o japanned iron extending from the buttock to the heel will usually answer t ^e purpose sufficiently Avell. It must be padded where it is in contact Avith t le I I I I 1 {