198 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. means of the anastomoses between the aortic intcrcostals and the branches of the axillary artery. In three more cases the operation of ligature of the in- nominate is said to have been tried with speedily fatal results ; and in four cases, after being commenced, it was abandoned. Death occurred from secondary hemorrhage in eight cases ; from inflammation of the lungs or pleura in one ; from pericarditis in one ; from diseased kidney in one ; from phlebitis and suppuration in one ; from “ apoplectic symptoms ” in one ; and in three from causes that are not mentioned. In one case, that of Hall, the artery was transfixed by the aneurism-needle; hmraorrhage occurred at the time, which was arrested by plugging, and did not recur, the patient dying from other causes. In three cases, those of Mott, Bland, and Lizars, the haemorrhage came on shortly after the separation of the ligature ; but in Glrafe’s it did not occur for fifty-one days after this, the cicatrix in the artery having then probably given way under the influence of some imprudent movement on the part of the patient. In Cooper’s second case, the patient appeared to be going on well for some weeks, when secondary haemor- rhage appeared. Learning that nothing further could be done, the patient tore off the bandages when alone, and bled to death. In Bickersteth’s case, the artery had been injured by the previous compression applied by means of a leaden wire. The ligature was applied on each side of the bruised spot ; but secondary liEemorrhage proved fatal on the sixth day. With such results as these, there can be but one opinion as to the extreme danger of such an operation. As its performance has hitherto in every instance, except in Smyth’s, entailed death, and generally a speedy death, it should without doubt be undertaken with much hesitation ; and it could only be as a last resource that a Surgeon would have recourse to such a procedure, in the face of the consequences that have hitherto invariably followed the application of a liga- ture to the brachio-cephalic artery for subclavian aneurism. Thompson’s case is the only one in which a hgatm’e not intended to cut through the coats of the artery has been applied. In his case the material used was the ox-aorta ligature recommeuded by Barwell. Although the patient died from secondary haemorrhage on the forty-second day, the result was to some degree encoimag- ing, for the blood had escaped from an ulcerated opening at the bifurcation, and not from the seat of ligature. The opening seems to have been the result of ulceration from a small cavity left after partial heahng of the wound, and it seems probable that the blood was supplied by a recurrent stream through the vertebral. Ligature of the Subclavian.—Poland collected twenty-one cases in which this artery has been tied in the third part of its com’se for subclavian or sub- clavio-axillary aneurism. Of these nine recovered. The sac was punctured in two cases—by Liston and Travers. The majority of the deaths were from hmmorrhage. Warren relates a remarkable case occurring in a lady aged thirty, who was afflicted by an aneurism just above the clavicle. The patient was excessively deformed from club-foot and curvature of the spine, so that the two first ribs rose above the clavicle, passing obliquely across the neck and , cari-ying the artery upwards and backwards, so that it lay parallel to, and, about an inch fr’om, the external border of the trapezius. This peculiarity of’ position enabled WaiTeii to tie the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour,; and the case had a successful issue. For aneurisms situated on the riglit sub- j / I i I ) « A ii ■a '.ri A ; Ti •1 • 'ii . -ji )