597 EXCISIOX OF THE LOWER JAW. Excision of the Lower Jaw.—The operation of excision of a portion of the lower jaw for tumour of that bone was fimt performed by Deadrick of Tennessee, in 1810, and not, as is generally but erroneously supposed, by Dupuytren. As the growths for which this operation is performed are usually situated between the symphysis and the angle of the bone, seldom extending beyond the middle line, the operation is generally limited to one side of the face. In some instances, however, the tumour may encroach so far that it may be necessary to remove more than the half of the bone ; and in other cases again, though of very rare occurrence, the whole of the bone has been disarticulated. When the tumour is of moderate size, and is situated about midway between the symphysis and anyle of the jaAV, it may be reached by making a semilunar incision of sufficient length under the lower edge of the bone, and carrying the anterior extremity of it well forward upon the chin, but not dividing the lower lip, if it can be avoided, nor cutting into the angle of the mouth; then dissecting up the flap thus formed, and carrying the knife cautiously along the inner side of the jaw, so as to detach the mucous membrane of the mouth and the mylo- hyoid muscle to a sufficient extent. In doing this, the hEemorrhage is often ver}" profuse : the bleeding from the facial artery is particularly forcible, the blood being thrown in a larger and stronger jet than would seem possible from the size of the vessel. The haemorrhage should be at once controlled by the appliciition of ligatures to both ends of the bleeding artery, and to any other points from which it is abimdant. Unless this be done, the after steps of the operation will be rendered much more obsem’e and difficult. One of the teeth on each side of the tumour having been previously drawn, the jaw must now be deeply notched through their alveoli into its base with a narrow strong- backed saw, and cut through with pliers, or completely divided with the saw. After the fragment of diseased bone, with the attached tumour, has been removed, and all bleeding vessels have been secured, the flap of cheek should be laid down smoothly, and retained in situ by means of hare-lip pins. Occasionally the dental artery in the cut jaw gives trouble ; the hminorrhage from this source may be checked by the application of a piece of solid perchloride of iron, or by touching it with the actual cautery. The patient must at first be fed with slops, which should be sucked in through a tube. At a later period, when cicatrization is well advanced, the teeth should be tied together with strong silver wire ; or a silver cap should be fitted upon the teeth of the two portions of bone that are left, and attached by an elastic spring to another silver cap put on those of the upper jaw, so to prevent the displacement that would otherwise occur in the smaller fragment. Union takes place after a time by fibrous tissue, which becomes sufficiently dense to make the jaw strong and useful. In those cases in which the tumour encroaches lepon the angle and ramus of the jaw, it is usually better to remove the bone at the articulation on the affected side; for, if the articular end including the coronoid process be left, it will be displaced forwards and upwards by the action of the temporal and external pterygoid muscles, and be a source of much inconvenience and irrita- tion to the patient, not compensated by any corresponding utility. In these cases, the removal of one lateral half of the jaw will consequently be required, and the operation may be performed in the following way. The patient’s head must be allowed to fall a little backwards so that the chin may bo well