FLAT FOOT—HOLLOW CLUB-FOOT. 529 of the extensor communis on the dorsum. Scarpa’s shoe may then be applied, and the arch of the foot restored by wearing a pad under tlie sole for some considerable time. Flat or Splay Foot. Spurious Talipes Valgus is a condition frequently met Avith in young adults. It is predisposed to by those constitutional con- ditions that have already been described as favouring the development of cur- vature of the spine, but the determining cause is most frequently over-fatigue of the foot fi'om long-continued standing, and from carrying heavy weights, or from a slovenly habit of Avalking by sliding rather than raising the feet, or twisting the foot so as to press upon the inner side. Girls ’ of a tender age being allowed to carry infants, boys set to heavy work beyond their strength, shop-boys and girls mercilessly kept upon their feet for too many hours, Avill eai'ly develop this deformity. When both feet are affected, there is usually knock-knee as well. The disease is due to a weakness of the muscles in the sole of the foot, and to relaxation of the ligaments by which the arch is main- tained, especially the ligamentum longum plantse, and the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament. As the result of this, the arch of the instep gradually sinks, so that the sole becomes perfectly flat. As the disease advances, a tendency to eversion of the foot takes place. At the same time, owing to flattening out of the arch, the inner side of the foot becomes lengthened, while the outer side, which is naturally but slightly arched, is but little altered. In consequence of this, the anterior part of the foot in front of the medio-tarsal articulation is displaced outwards. The scaphoid is thus partly dislocated from the head of the astragalus, which projects at the inner side of the foot, and being pressed upon, is often a source of much pain. The transverse ligamentous structures that bind together the bases of the meta- tarsal bones at their digital ends, become weakened and stretched. The consequence of this is, that the gait loses its elasticity, becomes shuffling, and the foot easily tires in Avalking. The Treatment consists, in the first place, in improving the general health, and removing the causes of over-fatigue or strain in the foot, vnthout which surgical treatment will be unavailing. The anterior part of the foot may be strapped firmly Avith plaster spread on washleather. The boots must be care- fully attended to. They must be Avide at the toes and the heel, must be large and made to extend on the inner side to a point opposite the middle of the foot. The boot must be fitted Avith the so-called “ surgical sole,” that is to say, a pad must be placed inside to support the arch. This must be made of cork, or better still of india-rubber, and must not be too stiff or too large. The upper-leathers of the boot must be strong, reach well above the ankle, and be laced firmly. If the feet are habitually cold, they must be rubbed twice a day Avith salt and Av^ater and Avarmly clothed. These measures usually suffice at least to airest the progress of the deformity. In very extreme cases it may possibly be necessary to apply an iron similar to that represented in Fig. .024, but without the spring for flexing the ankle. This is, hoAvcver, seldom required, and should ahvays be avoided if possible. A light steel spring may sometimes be fitted in the side of the boot in such a Avay as to direct the foot slightly iuAvards. Hollow Club-foot.—As in the hand, so in the foot, the intcrossci muscles not only mo\’e the toes laterally, but poAverfully flex the first phalanges, at the same time that they extend the two last. In paralysis of those muscles, and VOL. II. M