420 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. position as it did in Fig. 565. In the great majority of cases there is a com- pensating incurvation just below the excurvated vertebra, and in this way the upper part of the body is carried erect. The angle of excurvation varies according to the number of vertebral bodies destroyed, gnd the extent of the loss of substance. The gi-eater the number of vertebrie affected, the more obtuse will the angle be. When one vertebra only or chiefly is diseased, three spinous processes will project to form the angle, that of the diseased vertebra being the. apex. If two or three be diseased, live spinous processes usually enter the formation of the angle of excurvation, and then the whole of this portion of the column will be displaced backwards, giving a thickened and broadened base to the excurvation in the lateral direction. In the dorsal region, if a single vertebra is diseased, the projection is usually very marked and sharp as the bending forward of the vertebra turns the long oblique spine t almost directly backwards, forming a sharp prominence. In the lumbar . region, where the spines are short and point directly backwards, the projection , > is more rounded. : It is comparatively seldom that the spinal cord becomes compressed, inj ured, or i , diseased during the progress of this affection. It may, however, become pressed ' on by the sudden and acute development of the curvature, more especially in ' cases in which the rarefying osteitis is widely diffused through the bodies of the I affected vertebra, leading to rapid and extensive softening. More or lessji complete paraplegia may then ensue. In other cases the cord may be com-[ : i Fig. 567.—Natural Curve of Spine. Fig. 568.—First early Cliange of Curve in Angular Curva- tiu’e. Fig. 569.—Cliange of Curve | of Spine in Advancfti Stage of Angular Cuira ture. pressed by thickening of the meninges, or from inflammatory exudation inh the canal. In some cases in which owing to the disease attacking the posterior parts of the bodies or affecting them irregularly in such a way that the pos terior excurvation of the spine is slight, the dura mater may be implicated an( diffuse spinal meningitis result. This is especially likely to happen in casei complicated with abscess, if after opening the discharges are allowed to de compose. In other cases the cord may become softened opposite the scat o curvature.