. METHODS EMPLOYED IN PLASTIC SUPiGERY. \ J » • ?! t 3f t » <!■ I V f i I' i; i 603 unpromising cases by skill and patience. In these operative procedures the names of Serres, Dieffenbach, Liston, Syme, FeT’gusson, Sedillot, IL Langenbeck, Jobert, and AVolfe, deservedly take the first lunk. In perfonning the various plastic operations five methods have been employed. In the first, the flap of skin that is intended to repair the lost structure is transplanted fi'om a distant part, as the ami. This operation, introduced by the Italian Surgeon, Tagliacotius, in the sixteenth century, and hence commonly called by his name, has in a great measure fallen into disuse, on account of the difficulty of its execution, and the great uncertainty of obtaining a successful result. The second plan, which has been recently introduced by Wolfe, of Glasgow, consists in the transplantation of a piece of skin of con- siderable size from one part of the body to another, the transplanted portion being completely separated at the time of the operation, and carefully freed from ever)' trace of subcutaneous flit with a pair of sharp flat scissors. The third plan consists in transplanting the reparative structure from some part in the neighboiu’hood of the organ to be repaired ; the skin from the forehead, for instance, being used for the fomiation of a new nose ; that from the chin for the restoration of a lost lip. This procedure, which seems first to have been adopted by the natives of India in restoring the loss of the nose, is the method that is most commonly employed in this countiy in plastic operations on the face. The fourth method consists in loosening the skin by a process of subcutaneous section to some distance around the part to be repaired, and then drawing it fonvards with or without incision through its substance. This gliding operation is chiefly practised for the closure of fistulous openings. The fifth method is employed in cases where an abnormal fissure exists in a part. It consists in bringing together and uniting the edges of the fissiue, after having pared them evenly, so as to expose their vascular surfaces. Union in plastic operations should take place by the first intention. Should this, however, fail from any accidental circumstances, the Surgeon need not despair; as the parts may unite by granulation, in a very satisfactory and complete manner. For proper union to be effected, it is necessary that the edges be clearly and evenly cut, so as to adjust themselves accurately to one another. This may often be mostly skilfully effected by making the incision in the part that is to receive the flap somewhat oblique or bevelled, thus securing a more accurate adaptation of the edges. After the flap has been fonned and the part in which it is to be transplanted properly pared, the operation should be delayed a few minutes until all bleed- ing has ceased. This is of much importance, as the interposition of a layer of coagulated blood will materially interfere with union. In bringing the parts into apposition, great care must be taken that no undue traction or constriction be exercised, lest their circulation be interfered with, and their vitality be endangered. The parts may be maintained in apposition by sutures, collodion, or the application of a strip of isinglass plaster. The sutures should be as fine as f)OS8ible, introduced with a small needle, and knotted on the sound parts. Horse hair, fine catgut or silkworm-gut will be found the best materials where there is no strain on the sutures ; should there unavoidably be some strain a deep metallic stitch should be passed to relieve the finer sutures. Occaaionallv