SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 190 the time 'wlien T first saw liim, I understand tliat tliey liad to a very great extent disappeared. But there is reason to hclieve tliat all the signs of iiitraorhital anenrisni mav entirely disappear, the disease undergoing a spontaneous cni-e. Collard relates the ease of a man 41 years of age, who, in consequence of a fall on the hack of his head hy Avhich he was rendered insensible, was gradually seized with symptoms of aneurism of the left orbit; bruit, pulsation, dij)lopia, and pro- trusion of the eyeball, together Avith congestion of the eyelids, being most marked. After the disease had continued for a considerable length of time, the patient Avas put upon a course of purgatives, Avith a calomel and bella- donna pill daily, and cold lotions to the forehead. Under this treatment the symptoms gradually subsided, and in three years and a half from the com- mencement of the disease had entirely disappeared. Collard believes that in this case there was a dilatation of the ophthalmic artery and its branches, aris- ing from and maintained by a morbid state of the ophthalmic ganglion, AAdiich furnishes vaso-motor filaments to the arteries of the eye. This ganglion he believes to haA^e been injured by mitre-coiqj, and to have remained in an abnormal state, Avhich produced dilatation of the AAnll of the ophthal- mic artery and its branches, increase of the pulsations and the other symptoms which have been described above. It is evident from these cases that a grave prognosis should not be hastily giA^en, as it is only by Avatching the case that a correct conclusion can be arrived -at. If the protrusion of the eyeball con- tinues to increase, and the globe itself begins to suffer, and vision is lost, the prognosis becomes grave and the case is one requiring surgical treatment. If there is no increase of the symptoms after some months’ observation, the patient may be left to nature unless the annoyance of the disease is so great that an attempt to give relief becomes necessary. Pathology.—The essential features of so-called intraorbital aneurism or pulsating tumour of the orbit, may arise from more than one pathological condition. Rivington has collected 12 fatal cases in which the diseased parts AA^ere examined after death. In one only (Guthrie) was an aneurism found in the orbit. In this case the disease Avas double, and there was a cu’cumscribed aneurism on each ophthalmic artery. In three cases no arterial disease Avas found: in one of these (QEtlingen) there Avas obliteration of some of the veins of the orbit from old inflammatory mischief, in the other two (BoAA man and Aubrey) there AAns obstruction to the passage of blood from the orbit through tln’ombosis of the intra-cranial sinuses. In one (Nunneley) there was a circum- scribed aneurism of the ophthalmic artery before it entered the orbit; in three (Baron, Gendrin, and Nunneley) rupture of an aneurismal internal carotid into the cavernous sinus AAns found ; in one (Weeker) simple dilatation of the carotid in the cavernous sinus was the cause of the disease, and in the remain- ing three, recorded by Delens, an aneurismal varix of the carotid' artery and cavernous sinus Avas found. These three Avere all the result of injury, one arising from a direct wound from the point of an umbrella thrust into the opposite orbit, and the other two from severe bloAvs on the head, probably accompanied by fracture. No case of aneurism by anastomosis of the orbit has been demonstrated by post-mortem examination, but there is strong reason to believe that tAvo cases Avhich have been recorded of congenital origin AA'ere of this nature. The earlier observers supposed all cases to be due to aneurism by anastomosis. The fallacy of this opinion was first pointed out by I i f ! 1 .1 ■1 i: I ( I A Ji I! ft Ih h J i3 ^ Oi •% •I I I it (I