203 LIGATURE OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. of the axillaiT artery on the face of the stump might here be reckoned like Brasdor’s operation ; yet there is a A'ast ditference, for in the latter case the same amount of blood which previously passed towards the upper extremity would still hud its way down, and probably part of it would run through the sac ; whereas, were the member removed, as the same quantity would no longer be required in this direction, the tumour might possibly be much more under the control of pressure. The value of such a suggestion remains yet to Ix^ tested, however, and it would be futile to reason upon it at present. It might be a judicious venture hrst to tie the axillary under the clavicle ; and theu, if it were found that the aneurism still increased, amputation might be pt'rformed, cither immediately before or after the separation of the ligature.” AVere a case of aneurism of the subclavian artery internal to the scalenus to present itself to me, the plan that I should adopt would be, first, the employ- ment of pressure on the vessel at the distal side of the tumour, if practicable ; should this not succeed, I would, if the disease were situated behind or internal to the scalenus, liguture the artery in the third part of its course; and, did that not succeed in checking the increase of the aneurism, I would perform amputation at the shoulder-joint, as recommended by Fergusson. Should the aneimism occupy the artery after it has passed the scalenus, direct pressure on the sac holds out the best prospect of success. Should that fail, I would not attempt the ligature of the artery below the clavicle ; as it is an operation the result of which is most unsatisfactory, and would not prevent a large cmTent through the sac for the supply of the collateral circulation of the arm ; but I would at once have recourse to amputation at the shoulder, and then ligature the vessel as near as possible to the sac. It is true that, even in this case, the ligature would be below the branches that are given off under the pectoral muscles ; but, as the arm would be removed, they could not undergo any dilatation for the supply of the collateral circulation of the upper extremity. The first case in which this operation was performed, was by Spence in 1804. The jDatient lived for foiu’ years ; and, although the aneurism was not cured, the result afforded good promise of success for the future. For the first ten days after the operation, the pulsation was scarcely to be felt; and when the patient left the hospital the tumour had diminished to one third of its foiTuer size. The artery was tied in two places—where it Avas cut, and also just beyond the tumour. Before the patient’s death—which probably arose from internal aneurism—the aneurism had increased somewhat towards the chest. Since this Holden and Heath have performed the operation, but without success. In both cases, however, the aneurism was traumatic in its origin, and had attained a large size before amputation was practised. Hence the chances of consolidation and cure were materially lessened. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery.—This bold and difficult operation was fii-st performed on the living body by Smyth of New Orleans, who had recourse to it to check regurgitant luemorrhage after ligature of the innomi- nate for subclavian aneurism (p. 107). I will give the details of the operation in the words of Smyth.—“ The head of the patient being throAvn back and slightly turned tf) the left, an incision two inches in length was made along the posterior border of the stenio-mastoid muscle, commencing at the point where the external jugular vein crosses this muscle and terminating a little above the clavicle ; the edge of the muscle l)eing exposed and drawn to the inner side,