53 RED AND WHITE TIIROMEI. These observations explain the dilTerent appearances of the thrombus under the different circumstances in ^Yhich thrombosis takes place. The clot formed above an injury which completely obstructs a vein, as \vhen it is divided or tied, is uniform in structure, dark red in colour, and at first but loosely adherent to the inner coat of the vessel. At a later period, as in the case of a ligatured artery, it becomes denser in consistence from contraction, and more firmly adherent, and loses its colour in consequence of disintegration of the red coi-puscles. A thrombus formed by gradual deposit from the circu- lating blood upon the unhealthy walls of a vein is either white or mixed in tint, according to the rapidity with which it is formed. It is firmly adherent to the inner coat of the vein and laminated in structure. Microscopic examination shows it to contain few red disks, but numerous white corpuscles which have escaped disintegTation are usually found between the lamium. As a rule the thrombi arising in cases in which an altered condition of the blood is supposed to be the cause of coagulation are white or mixed, the fibrin being deposited gradually on the walls of the vein, stai’ting from some point where from disease or injury the endothelium is damaged. When a vein is completely obliterated by a white thrombus, the stagnant blood on each side coagulates, forming a red clot adherent to the white. After death a further extension of this red clot takes place. These post-mortem clots are recognized by their softness and by their floating free in the vessel. Comil and Eaimer have supposed that in many cases at least the central portion of a laminated clot, and not its peripheral layers, are the oldest, the flbrin having been first deposited on the wall of the vein and then separated from it by contraction, though prevented from passing on towards the heart by the prolongations extending into the collateral branches. This view, how- ever, seems far from probable. The only appearance suggesting such a process is met with in the clots extending from the heart into the pulmonary artery in cases of cardiac thrombosis. These are commonly found to fill the vessel incompletely, and often present perfect casts of the pulmonary valves. In these cases, however, the coagulation takes place immediately before death, and very probably the contraction is post-mortem. The Fate of the Thrombus varies according to the circumstances in which it is placed and the causes of its formation. Thrombi arising from injury undergo the same changes as those forming in arteries under similar circumstances (Vol. I., p. 297). The restoration of the channel through a vein, when the continuity of its walls has not been interrupted, takes place more readily than in similar conditions in the arteries. It is possible that in some cases this may result from disintegration of the clot, the debris being carried away and lodged in the lungs, where, if non-infective in character, they would cause no serious symptoms. The normal process of restoration, however, is effected by the clot becoming infiltrated by new cells proceeding from the wall of the vessel, as in the permanent closure of a divided vein. Xew vessels aftenvards penetrate amongst these cells, and by means of these a communication is established between the permeable portions of the vein above and below the clot. The channel, at first small, gradually enlarges by absoi-ptioii of new tissue through which it passes, and thus, at last, the full calibre of the vein is restored. Softenimj and JJisintpfjration arc common changes when the thrombus has been formed in consequence of inflammation of the vein, or as a result of those