ACUTE ARTHRITIS-MORBID ANATOMY. 331 •■<3 tii isii itfl. aii- sell h !k ci? ik m- lea :5I h i'i iji ...i •1^ iii II al fr^ i!^ 3l' , be observed, but they are always most marked in the neighbourhood of the vas- I cular ft'inges of the synovial membrane. So much is this the case that Aston Key ' was led to believe that the destruction of the cartilage was directly effected by : the development of a fimbriated or fringed vascular network or tissue from the ! synovial membrane, by which the process of absorption was carried out. The I true nature of the changes occurring in ulceration of cartilage were first » described by Goodsir, and his observations were confirmed and extended sub- i sequently by Redfern and Rainey, who pointed out the fiict that cartilage, like * other extra vascular tissues, may undergo changes independent of the prolonga- I tion of vessels into it. If a vertical section be made of a piece of articular I cartilage in process of ulceration, the changes observed will vary with the } acuteness of the process. In some cases the appearances will closely resemble i those already described as being met with in ulceration of bone. The I surface of the cartilage is seen to be irregularly hollowed out, the hollows being 1 filled with small round cells, having the ordinary appearance of the migrating i leucocytes observed in acute inflammations elsewhere ; immediately beneath < these, the matrix of the imaltered cartilage is cloudy, and the cartilage-cells 1 may be gi'anular, but there is no evidence of proliferation. There is, in fact, 1 nothing to prove that the new cells are derived from the pre-existing cells of I the cartilage, and that the process is not exactly analogous to the destruction of 1 bone by cells derived from the vascular medullary tissue, probably by migration I from its vessels. In less acute processes, on the other hand, the destruction of the cartilage i is undoubtedly due to changes commencing in its own cells. In a vertical } section proceeding from the healthy cartilage to the diseased surface, the 1 following appearances are observed. In from the fifth to the twelfth layer fr’om i the surface the cells are seen to be undergoing proliferation ; in each capsule t two to four cells are found ; proceeding towards the diseased surface, the 1 number of cells in each space increases, and they gradually lose the character- i istic appearance of cartilage-cells and become indistinguishable from the round I cells of granulation-tissue. As the cells multiply the space containing them 1 necessarily increases at the expense of the smTounding matrix, and at the same I time the capsule becomes more and more indistinct and at last disappears I altogether. The matrix near the surface becomes cloudy and granular, and at 1 last completely disappears before the enlarging cell-spaces, which then coalesce, t and thus there is fonned on the surface a layer composed entirely of small I round cells identical in appearance with those of ordinary granulation-tissue. * The homogeneous intercellular substance may then soften and the cells may be i cast off into the joint as pus-cells ; or should the disease tend towards recoveiy 1 new vessels may penetrate the groups of cells, proceeding from the neai’est 1 vascular tissue, and thus a vascular granulation-tissue may be formed, which ' will take part in the processes of repair to be subsequently described. In order to distinguish these three processes from each other, we may term t the first, necrosis with disintegration, the second, ulceration without prolifera- * tion, and the third, ulceration with proliferation. The bones, when exposed by destruction of the cartilages, become affected t more or less deeply by the inflammatoiy process. The changes that occur I need no description, as they are identical with those already described in t the Chapter on Inflammatory Processes in Bone. They usually assume the f form of rarefactive osteitis with suppuration, or simple caries, but if the