i< i Lastly, if in spite of treatment the symptoms of irritation of the pelvis come STONE IN THE KIDNEY—TREATMENT. 9iy ing. In other cases any kind of movement is almost nnhearable. There may be acute tenderness on pressure over the affected kidney ; but in this stage of tlie disease no enlargement is to be recognized. Frecpiency of micturition may or may not be present. In some cases it forms one of the most prominent symptoms, so much so that the case may be mistaken for one of disease of the bladder. The urine almost always contains a trace of blood to be recognized by the microscope, and occasional attacks of profuse htematuria are common, most frequently brought on by violent movement. In the early stages pns is absent, or only a few corpuscles can be found. Cubical cells are said to occur similar to those forming the superficial layers of the epithelium lining the pelvis of the kidney, but these are not sufficiently definite to draw any conclusion from them, as similar cells may be derived from other parts of the urinary tract. li f * Treatment.—During the descent of a renal calculus, which always occupies many hours, and perhaps some days, the patient should have full doses of opium administered, drink bland diluents freely, be put into a Avarm hip- ' bath, and have hot fomentations or mustard poultices applied to the loin ; the ' bowels should also be thoroughly emptied by enemata. It is AveU to bear in mind, that a somewhat similar train of symptoms to that induced by the descent of the calculus, may be excited by some forms of irritation or flatulent distension of the emeum and deseending colon, Avhich will require appropriate treatment. Should the stone fail to descend and give rise to the train of symptoms just described, medical treatment may be of much use. An attempt may be made to dissolve the stone by the administration of doses of potash or lithia • sufficient to keep the urine persistently alkaline. At the same time the. diet must be strictly attended to on the principles laid doAAm in the Chapter on Urinary Calculi. The patient must use distilled AA’ater only for drinking {purposes. By this treatment the stone appears in some cases to have ibeen dissolved sufficiently to allow of its passage by the ureter. If the {patient’s circumstances allow of it, several months’ rest in the recumbent {position may be tried, as under this treatment the calculus becomes encysted ;and fixed in one calyx, and may cease to cause trouble. If these means ; fail, the question arises of performing the operation to which the term nephro- 1 lithotomy has been applied by Morris, who was the first to undertake it. "Tliis operation differs so essentially from that j)erformed in the later stages, tthat it AA'ell merits a distinctive name. It must not be assumed, liOAveA*er, t that every case of renal calculus is one for operation. The conditions justifying -surgical interference are the following :—1. The disease must have lasted sufficiently long to make it certain that there is no hope of natural ciu’e by •spontaneous expulsion. 2. The inconvenience caused must be such that it .•seriously interferes Avith the patient’s enjoyment of life. 3. Medical treatment ; must have been fairly tried and have failed. 4. The patient must not be passing gravel habitually, as it is evident that under these conditions a fresh stone would probably form in the injured kidney and lodge there after the operation, o. The symptoms must be distinctly unilateral. 0. The patient : must be otherwise in good health, not too old, and especially not too fat. on, especially a steadily increasing amount of pus in the urine, the operation may be undertaken in the hopes of saving the kidney and of preventing tlie occiurence of pyonephrosis, lArovided that other conditions are fiiAnurable.