202 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. has attended procedures of this kind Avlieii applied to vessels in other situations. The difficulty in applying- the compression might, 1 think, be overcome l>y the use of an instrument of which a re])resentation is given by Bonrgery. The efficiency of the compression would be materially increased by the employ- ment of direct pressure on the tumour, or of galvano-puncture or acupuncture at the same time, and in this way a coagulum might be formed in the sac. Although too much ought not to be expected from this mode of treatment, yet I think it might with propriety be tried in cases of the kind that has been mentioned. 2. Distal Ligature of the Subclavian Artery in the Third Part of its Course has been suggested, and may, perhaps, hold out some prospect of success in cases of aneurism situated behind or internal to the scalenus. In an aneurismal sac springing from the artery in this situation, the principal current of blood would, in all probability, be that which is destined for the supply of the upper extremity. Some of the branches arising from the artery before it has passed beyond the scalenus auticus would, doubtless, be more or less compressed, and thus obliterated, by the tumour ; or they might be obstructed by an extension of the laminated librine over their orifices. If, therefore, the supply to the upper extremity could be cut off, there might be a possibility of those changes taking place within the sac which are necessary for the oblitera- tion of its cavity. The principal obstacles to this desirable result would necessarily be the transverse cervical, and suprascapular arteries ; wliich, being the two vessels that are more particularly destined to cany on the circulation in the upper extremity after the ligature of the subclavian, would necessarily, if not occluded, undergo dilatation, and thus continue to draw too large a cui-rent of blood through the sac for stratification of its contents to take place; and, if they were occluded, there would be danger of gangrene of the arm from insufficient vascular supply. Dupuytren ligatured the axillary artery under the jDectoral muscles for a case of subclavian aneiu-ism, two arterial branches being divided in the incisions through the fat and areolar tissue ; and the patient died on the ninth day. This operation could not be expected to succeed; for between the ligature and the sac are the large and numerous alar, acromial, and thoracic branches of the axiUary artery, which would continue to be fed by a current sent through the tumour, and thus preclude the possibility of its contents being sufficiently stationary for ultimate contraction and cure to result. Laugier performed the distal operation in a supposed case of subclavian aneurism, which afterwards tm-ned out to be one of the brachio-cephalic artery. In addition to Dupuy- tren’s case, the operation has been done by Petrequin, Schuli, and Canton, in all instances without benefit. 3. The above-mentioned difficulties are met by a plan of procedure, origi- nally suggested, I believe, by Fergusson. It is Amputation of the Arm at the Shoulder-joint, followed by Distal Ligature of the Artery—a desperate undertaking, ti’uly, but for a desperate disease, it must be remem- bered, and one that under ordinary surgical treatment is almost incurable. The artery might be ligatured before the amputation. “ It is known,” says Fergusson, “ that amputation at the shoulder-joint is generally a very success- ful operation ; so far as this wound is concerned, then, there might be little to apprehend, but the effect on the tiunour is not so easily foretold. Ligature 3 I li i ) K '■'■t