SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 224 uoiiclyle, and the other on tlie radial edge of the pisiform hone ; the line corresponding to this is the one sought for. The point of the knife is then run lightly along the radial side of the line, after which the flexor suhlimis and flexor nluaris can be easily separated with the handle of the scalpel. The direc- tion of the interspace is towards the ulna. On separating the muscles the artery may appear at once with a vein on each side of it lying on the flexor profundus. More commonly the ulnar nerve is first seen ; when this comes into view, the flexor suhlimis must be raised and drawn outwards, when the artery will be found coming out from beneath it to join the nerve lower down. The needle must be passed from the inner side. The common error in this operation consists in making the incision too much to the radial side and opening the interval between the flexor suhlimis and the palmaris longus by mistake. The error is at once recognized by finding that an interspace leads towards the radius instead of the ulna. The Radial Artery above the Wrist may be ligatured by making an incision about one and a half to two inches in length, a quarter of an inch outside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis—'the “ directing line ” ; when after the division of the superficial and deep fascise, the artery accompanied by its two veins will be exposed (Fig. 487), and may be tied in the usual way. The artery lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus, and is separated by some fat from the pronator quadratus. The Radial Artery in the middle of the Fore- arm can easily be ligatured by an incision (Fig. 486) made in a line drawn from the middle of the hollow in front of the elbow to the root of the styloid process. At this part it is overlapped by the belly of the supinator longus, and lies on the insertion of the pronator teres. The incision should be about two inches in length ; after the fascia is divided the supinator comes into view, its internal edge must be found and the muscle turned outwards. A distinct fascia is found beneath it, on opening which the artery will be seen with a vein on each side. The radial nerve fs about half an inch to the outer side, and is usually not seen. Ligature of the Radial Artery at the Wrist has sometimes been done for aneurism of the palm, but is more commonly required for wound. The artery at this part of its course lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint. It winds round the lower end of the radius, passing beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis, and then under the extensor secundi internodii. The operation is perfonned by making ft’om the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the posteiior part of the root of the styloid process of the radius in such a way as to be midway between the tendons of the extensors of the first and second phalanges of the thumb. In the superficial fat will be found the radial vein (which must not be mistaken for the artery) and some branches of the ladial neive. A fascia extending between the two tendons is then found and caiefully opened, when the artery will be seen crossing the wound obliquely rather towards its lower end. This operation should nevei be peifoimed in pre- ference to that in front of the wrist, as it is more difficult, and is apt to Fig. 4S7. — Diagi’am oi' the Radial artery, fl.c.rd. Flexor cai'pi radialis ; v.v. veins ; «. artery. ! i'H leave some stiffness in the tendons of the extensors of the thumb. t 'y (I