DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 554 large, lest it push tlie soft palate forwards against the tongue and impede respiration. Naso-Orbital Tumours are growths that, commencing in the upper part of the nasal fossa or in the ethmoidal colls, perforate eventually the thin inner wall of the orbit and expand into the interior of that cavity, displticing the eye forwards, downwards, or outwards, in two, sometimes in all three of these directions. Vision is often hut little if at all disturbed. The nostril on the affected side is blocked up by a polypoid growth. But the outline of the superior maxilla and of the hard palate is normal, no j^rojection of the Ijone, in whole or in part, being perceptible. In fact, the disease and the deformity pro- duced by it occupies a part of the face which is above a horizontal line drawn across the cheek on a level with the upper or orbital border of the superior maxilla. The disease always commences j)rimarily in the nose or in the cavities contiguous to it. The extension into the orbit may not occur for many months after its primary development. It occurs at all periods of life, from early childhood to commencing old age. At first it may present the ordinary characters of benign nasal polypus. This is removed, reem’s rapidly, is again re- moved, with much haemorrhage, and then the orbital implication is developed. The Diagnosisof the naso-orbital from the naso-pharyngeal tumour may be made by observing the displacement of the eyeball and absence of all tumour behind the soft palate in the first case ; whilst, in the other, the naso-pharyngeal, the orbit is intact, the upper part of the pharynx being occupied by a morbid growth, and the superior maxilla possibly pushed bodily forwards or to one side. In the naso-orbital tumour, the deformity is above the horizontal line of the upper edge of the superior maxilla ; in the naso-pharyngeal, it is beloAv this. The nature of the tumour varies. It is usually a large or small spindle- celled sarcoma, but it may be epitheliomatous. Treatment.—The operation for the removal of naso-orbital tumour may l^e done as follow's. An incision should be made from the root of the nose, directly down along the side and round the ala, so as to open the nasal cavity. The soft parts on the orbital side of this cut are then dissected down into the orbit. One blade of a cutting pliers being passed into the nose, along the outer border of the nasal bone, the articulation between this and the nasal process of the superior maxilla is cut through. An oblique cut upwards should then be made across the nasal process of the superior maxilla deeply into the orbit, the cut bones widely separated, and the nose turned completely over to the sound side of the face. The tumour at the nasal side of the orbit may now be felt, the eye being held to the outer side and protected witli a retractor. The orbital tumour may now be enucleated with the finger and curved scissors. The nostril is then cleared by means of polypus-forceps. The bleeding should be arrested by plugging ; and, after all the morbid growth has been fairly Fig. 6D9.—Naso-Orbital Tumour.