HERNIA. 784 The operation for stranouLited hernia may be performed in two ways • eitlior by opening- the sac, exposing its contents, and dividing the stricture, wherever It is situated,tvUMn ; or it may be done by dividing the stricture without opening the sac. In either case the gi-eat object of the operation' th<* division of the stricture by tlie knife, is the same ; but the inode in wliich’it is clfected is different. We shall first describe the operation in which the sac is o[)ened ; afterwards that in which it is not; and then briefly compare tlie two procedures. OriiiUAiiON IN WHICH THE Sac IS OPENED.—Exposure of the Sac. TIk- ]iatient having been brought to the edge of the bed, or placed on a table of convenient height, the bladder is emptied, and the parts that are the seat of opeiation aie shaved. The dissection of the hernial coverings in layers anatomically arranged, is never done at an operation. The Surgeon dissects. 01 lather cuts, down to the sac, then turns aside the coverings as a ivliole, and divides the stricture. He proceeds as follows : An incision of sufficient lengtli is made over the neck of the sac ; this may be best done by pinching up a fold of skin, pushing the scalpel through its base with the back of the instru- ment turned towards the hernia, and then cutting upwards (Fig. 786). A linear incision is thus made, which may be extended at either end if necessary: the dissection is then carried through the superficial fascia and fat with the scalpel and forceps. If any small artery spout fi-eely, it had better be tied at once, lest the bleeding obstruct the view of the part in the subsequent steps of the operation. As the Surgeon approaches the sac, more caution is required, particularly if the subserous areolar tissue be dense, opaque, and laminated. The Surgeon must pinch this up with the forceps, make a small incision into it, introduce a director, and lay it open upon this, or on the finger (Fig. 787). If it be thin and not opaque, so as to admit a view of the subjacent parts, he may dissect it through with the unsupported hand. In this way he proceeds until the sac is reached, which is usually known by its rounded and tense appearance, its filamentous character, and by the arborescent arrangement of vessels upon its surface. In some cases the Surgeon thinks that he ha.'< reached the sac, when in reality he has only come upon a deep layer of coii- densed areolar tissue in close contact Avith it; here the absence of all ajipcar- ance of vessels, the dull and opaque character of the tissue and its more solid