SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 194 aneurism by Valsalva’s plan in eighteen months. Galvano-jmncture has been tried five times, but only once with success—in a case under the care of Abeille. Three cases have been successfully treated by liangenbeck of Berlin, and one by Dutoit of Bern, by the siibcuianeouH hvjeclion of errjolinmio the integuments over the tumour. ManijmMion, as recommended by Fer- gusson, has been tried five times (Holmes) ; once in the hands of Little suc- cessfully, once by Fergusson with partial success, and in the three remaining cases without any advantage. The treatment undoubtedly deserves a further trial in these cases, wdien we consider the extreme danger of the disease and the great want of success that attends other means of cure. Ligature of the bradiw-ce'phalic, and of the subclavian itself, internal to, behind, and beyond the scalenus anticus, has been practised for the cure of this form of aneurism; it has likewise been proposed to apply the distal operation to the treatment of this disease, and to amputate at the shoulder-joint. When an aneurism is situated on the right subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scalenus, there is no way in which the flow of blood through it can be arrested, except by the ligature of the brachio-cephalic artery. When it is situated beyond the scalenus, or even behind it, ligature of the vessel has been practised in the first part of its course before it reaches this muscle. For subclavian anemusm on the left side, in these situations, no operation conducted on the Hunterian principle would be practicable. Let us now proceed to examine the results that have attended these opera- tive procedures. Ligature of the Brachio-Cephalic.—The brachio-cephalic artery, as may be seen by the accompanying table, has been ligatured sixteen times, CASES OP LIGATURE OP BRACHIO-CEPHALIC ARTERY.* OPERATOR. SEX. AGE. NATURE OF DISEASE. RESULT. REMARKS. 1. Mott. m. 57 Subcl avian aneurism. Died on 26th day. Tied an inch below bifurcation. Ligature separated in fourteen days. Haemorrhage on 25th day, stopped by pi-cssure: recuiTed on 26th. 2. Grape. ... Subclavian aneurism. Died on 67th day. Ligature separated in fourteen days. Died of hfemorrhage. 3. Hall. . . Subclavian aneurism. Died on 5 th day. Artery was diseased and gave way. Bleeding arrested by plug ; death from other causes. 4. Dupuy- TREN. ... Died. Case referred to as occurring in the practice of Dupuytren. 5. Norman. m. ... Subclavian aneurism. Died. Died of pericai'ditis sixty hours after operation. 6. Bland. m. 31 Subclavian aneurism. Died on 18th day. Hiemorrhage came on on the 17th and 18th days. Ligature applied to upper portion of artery. ■* These are all the cases of ligature of the brachio-cephalic artery the details of which I have been able to collect. This artei’y is also said to have been once ligatured by Pirogoff, a7id twice by Btigalski—all three cases fatal; but, as I can find no details of these operations, I have omitted them in the above table. GurlL in his Report on Surgery (“ Archiv flir Klinische CTiinirgie,” vol. iii., 1862), .say.s, in speaking of Coopers second case: “Tins is the fifteenth case of.ligature of the innominate artery : and everj’one of them nas proved fatal.” In the Index Catalogue of the Library of the SuT^eon-General's Office, W a.shingfon, is a reference to a paj>er by D. L. Rogers, on “A case of successful ligation of the innominate ailery,” Ameruxin Medical Times, New York, 1804. I cannot find a I'eference to this case elsewhere, and have not been able w' look up the original paper before these sheets went to press.