ANEUniSM. io6 carotids. The disease occurs, however, only in the aorta, and its principal branches—in those arteries, indeed, in which yellow elastic tissue is abundant in the middle coat. Classes.—Dissectino- aneurisms arrange themselves into three distinct classes. 1. In one class, the blood, after having passed for a distance of several inches, or even more, through the substance of the middle coat, bursts through the external coat, and becomes effused into the areolar tissue outside the vessel and around the seat of rupture, or into the neighbouring cavities (Fig. 444). In these cases, which constitute the most common variety of the disease, death usually occurs rapidly, the patient feeling intense pain along the line of rupture, and falling into a state of syncope. 2. The external coat may resist the impulse of the blood, which consequently continues to pass between the layers of the middle coat until it meets a softened and atheromatous patch, and then again bursts into the canal of the artery. In thisfonn of the disease, the patient may live for years after the occurrence of the rupture ; the new channel that the blood has taken becoming lined with a dense smooth mem- brane, and resembling closely the interior of the artery, from which, however, it is separated by a kind of septum. The appearance here presented by the vessel has occasionally been erroneously described as constituting a double aorta. 3. The blood may find its way between the laminm of the middle coat, but does not escape farther by rupture of the external, or by the giving way of the lining membrane of the vessel. A sac is consequently formed in the substance of the middle coat, Avhich may become chronic, but which will at last rupture externally. Process op Formation op an Aneurism.—The progression of the changes leading to the formation of an aneurism is briefly as follows. The artery having been affected with chronic endarteritis, a patch of atheromatous softening forms, and the lining membrane covering it, perhaps ivith a portion of the inner layers of the middle coat, becomes eroded ; or the walls of the vessel may be weakened at this point without any destruction of their coats. Cohesion, however, takes place between the tissues of the vessel at the eroded or weakened spot; and the outer coat becomes strengthened and thickened by the formation of dense fibroid tissue. Dilatation next takes place at this point ; if of the entire coats, a true aneurism is formed ; if of the eroded tunics, 2^ false aneurism occurs : but if no cohesion have previously taken place between the different coats of the vessel, the blood becomes effused into and between them, thus constituting a dissecting anemdsm. Structure of an Aneurism.—An aneurismal sac, if it be composed of a dilatation of all the coats of an artery, may be recognized on dissection by the atheromatous and calcareous patches which are met with in the tissues of which it is composed. If it be a false aneurism, it will be found that there is little, if any, of these deposits in the walls of the sac ; that the middle coat usually terminates abruptly at its mouth, and that the external coat is greatly thickened and strengthened by neAvly formed fibroid tissue. An aneurismal sac may vary in size, from a tumour not larger than a cherry to a growth of the magnitude of a cocoa-nut or large melon. The mouth, which is oval or round in shape, varies greatly in size, being always very small in proportion to the sac. Usually the interior of an aneurismal sac contains a quantity of colourless fibrin, arranged in concentric laininm of but moderate thickness ; these laminm of fibrine are of a pale-buff colour, dry, and somewhat brittle t