749 MORTALITY FROM AMPUTATION OF BREAST. though a considerable mass has been removed. By some it lias been supposed that relapse of cancer is less liable to take place if the Avound unite by granu- lation, than if it come together by more speedy union; of this, however, there is no proof Avith Avhich I am acquainted. The mortality from amputation of the Ircast was ncA'er A'ery con- siderable, and has been greatly reduced by the modern improA^cments in the treatment of Avounds. The circumstances that chiefly influence it are the nature of the tumour, the size of the breast, and the extent of the incision into the axilla. The operation is much more dangerous AAdieii performed for the removal of cancerous than of simple tumours: and the danger increases in proportion to the length of time the cancer has been alloAved to exist before the operation is undertaken. In proportion as the patient’s general health has become undermined by the continuance of the malignant disease, so the ten- dency to pyaemia and erysipelas increases. "Women Avho have small mamniEe, with little fat, bear the operation best. The danger of the operation is, for obvious reasons, much greater in women Avith large breasts, in whom the areolar tissue is loaded Avith coarse yellow fat. In these reparative action is sIoav, and there is much tendency to sloughing and to erysipelas. Lastly, the opera- tion becomes dangerous in proportion as the tumour is adherent to the pectoral muscle, and the dissection requires to be carried deeply into the axilla or under the pectoral. The danger here is threefold : 1, from hemor- rhage ; 2, from the entiy of air into a vein ; and 3, from opening np the deep fascia of the axilla, and the risk of the occnrrence of deep cellulitis. This last danger is much less if the axilla is tho]*onghly cleaned out than if a small opening only be made in the fascia and the glands torn out through this. It can be much lessened by the jAroper use of drainage and antiseptic dressings. When death follows these operations it is most commonly the result of erA’sipelas or septicemia. There are two dangers which attend excision of the breast rather more frequently than other operations; viz., 1st, a congesthn form of pneumonia, not dependent on any blood-poisoning, but arising from defective aeration occasioned by the breathing being shalloAv and restrained either by tight bandauing of the chest, or by the pain induced by the moA^ement of the chest- Avalls in respiration ; and 2nd, cardiac thrombosis extending into the pulmo- nary artery. I have known seA'eral instances of death from each of these causes. The fimt danger can obA’iously be guarded against ; the second cannot. Axillo-mammary Cancer presents some peculiarities that deserve special consideration. It dcA'olops at the outer and upper angle of the mammary gland toAA'ards its free border, so that, instead of groAving into its substance and remaining imbedded in it, it tends to push into the direction of least resist- ance to its ont-gi’OAvth, and thus to extend into the areolar space at the lower Ixwdcr of the axillary edge of the pectoralis major, and lie betAA'een it and the lati.ssimus dorsi muscle, fl'lie tumour feels haixl and nodulated, and is rounded in shaj)e. Hometimes it a]A])cars to bo scarcely attached to the mammary gland. But on closer manipulation it Avill be found to extend deeply into its snl)- stanco, Avhich toAvards the base of the tumour feels hard and thickened, fl’hc greater portion of the gland, the median half and much of the loAver part, will continue long unaffected by cancerous infiltration. The nipple is not retracted until a very late perif)d in this form of the disease. It and the areola preserA'C their nonnal appearances, long after the skin above them