DEFORMITIES. 500. A the knife being used as a lever, to press the edge against the tendon, whilst it is made tense by an assistant. The second way is to pass the teno- tome superficially to the tendon between it and tlie skin, and then to turn the edge against it whilst it is made tight by an assistant. In this ])lan the danger of Avounding the skin is avoided. A drop or two only of blood is lost in the operation ; and, as the divided tendon retracts with a kind of snap, a gap will be left between the two ends, from half an inch to an inch in width, according to the previous amount of tension in the part. If the muscles have been contracted for some years, it will commonly be found that the fascias in the neighbourhood of the tendon have become rigid and unyielding, forming cords or bands stretching across from the side of the gap. If these be very tense, they may be divided in the same way ; but in many instances it will be found, after the lapse of a short time, that they will yield by stretching, and consequently will not require division. After the section has been made, the small puncture should be closed with a pad of lint and a strip of plaster, the admission of air into the wound being carefully guarded against. The whole success of the operation depends on this. Should air enter, spreading inflammation and suppuration will to a certainty be set up ; whereas, if this be avoided, the wound will heal AAuthout any inflamma- tion beyond that caused directly by the injury. It is the entry of air, and not the subcutaneous wound, that gives rise to spreading inflammation. Antiseptics are Avholly unnecessary in tenotomy. Figs. 618,619,620.—Tenotomes. If the subcutaueous scction be done with the most ordinary care, no danger of suppuration will result. After tenotomy the part should then be simply bandaged and either left Avithout: any apparatus, or supported by a splint in the same position that it occupied before the tendon was cut, no attempt at extension being made for three or fom* days. At the expiration of this time repair will have commenced, and then proper mechanical contrivances may be adjusted for gradually restoring the normal position of the limb or part. Sayre adopts a different method. He makes extension inunediately after the division of tendons and fasciae, and I have seen excellent results follow this practice. It is not, however, applicable in all cases, as, in some instances of talipes of old standing, the contraction appears to exist in the ligaments as well as in the more superficial structiu'es. In such cases considerable resist- ance Avill be offered, and long-continued extension be required. The mode of Repair in Divided Tendons has given rise to some con- troversy, there being two theories Avith regard to the process. According to one, the granulation-tissue between the divided and retracted ends gradually undergoes a process of contraction, analogous to AA'hat tokes place in the cicatrix of a burn, so as to cause approximation of the cut ends of the tendon at the expense of the muscle, Avhich becomes partially lengthened, until at last a transverse linear cicatrix merely is left at the line of section. Adams has, hoAvever, conclusively sheAvn that this theory is erroneous, and that repair