CHRONIC ARTHRITIS—WHITE SWELLING. 339 useful limb may be left. Should decomposition take place, profuse discharge followed by hectic or chronic septic poisoning come on, and pymniia is not unfreqnently developed ; if the patient escape these dangers the joint may i become useless or cumbersome, and its removal by amputation or excision must be practised. When an attempt is made to save the joint after suppura- ■ tion has taken place, very special attention will be required, in consequence of 1 the softening of the ligaments, to prevent displacement of the osseous surfaces I either laterally or antero-posteriorly; this may be produced partly by the ' weight of the limb and partly by the traction of the muscles. Any neglect of ] proper precautions in the more minute details of the application and adjust- 1 ment of proper apparatus may be followed by a very considerable amount of 4 deformity. Should the limb already unfortunately have assumed a faulty ^ position, in consequence of the Surgeon neglecting to support it properly in ? splints in the early acute stage, the patient may be auEesthetized, and the limb «slowly and gently placed in such a position as will be most conducive to his * after-comfort. With regard to the treatment of the special forms of acute artlmitis, little 1 need be said. That of acute septic arthritis from a wound has already been < described. In Pijcemic Arthritis, most commonly little can be done owing to t the constitutional condition of the patient, but should there be no visceral c complications a cure not unfreqnently results after free antiseptic incision, ^drainage, and rest. Ankylosis almost invariably results. In Acute Arthritis ffrom Cold, perfect rest, leeches, and hot fomentations must be tried. Should ' suppuration take place, free incisions may be successful in saving the joint, i In Acute Arthritis secondarxj to disease of the lones, the results of treatment are : not very satisfactory. An attempt may be made to save the joint by removing ^sequestra and treating the carious surface as described in the Chapter on Diseases of Bones, but it often fails, and amputation or excision becomes necessary. In Acute Arthritis of Infants, the joint must be laid freely open as soon as pus forms, and by this means the limb can usually be saved. In ^Senile Arthritis, the treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles of rest, fomentations, opiates, and supports. But at last, in order to prevent destruction of life by pain and exhaustion, the question of amputation will arise; and, serious as this mtiy be in old people, it wiU be the only alternative ind chance of escape from a painful death. A ni e CHRONIC STRUMOUS ARTHRITIS OR WHITE SWELLING. By White Swelling is meant a very chronic form of arthritis occurring in ‘Scrofulous subjects. It was described by Sir Benjamin Brodie under the rname of pnlpy degeneration of the synovial membrane. By modern I'German writers it is termed fungous inflammation of joints (fungbse Oelerikentziindung), and more recently, for reasons which will be stated 1 hereafter, it has been proposed to call it tubercular arthritis. Symptoms.—The disease in many cases supervenes slowly on some slight injury, as a twist, or blow, or strain, but in others no deflnite cause can"be assigned for its appearance, and the exact date of its commencement is often j.difficidt to ascertain. It may commence with a subacute synovitis in a strumous subject, assuming its peculiar character at a later period. It is ■especially liable to haj)pen in children and females. The disease be'diis gradually with some pain and stillness in the joint, causing a slight limp in