301 HYPERTROPHY OF BONE. CHAPTER XLVII. » STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE AND TUMOURS OF BONE. HYPERTROPHY OP BONE. True Hypertrophy of Bone, that is to say, increase in size without alteration in form or structure, is very rare. It occurs as the result of exces- sive use, in common with the enlargement of the muscles inserted into it. The tenn Inflammatory Hypertrophy is often applied to those chronic inflammatory processes which cause enlargement of a bone, diffused over a considerable part of its length. When the thickened bone is more spongy than natural, the change is termed Spongy Hypertrophy; when it is denser, sclerosis, or hardening of bone. Spongy hypertrophy occurs in its most marked form in the disease described by Sir James Paget as osteitis deformans. Sclerosis is most commonly met with as the result of syphilis or after recovery from chronic osteitis and periostitis in scrofulous subjects. It may affect several bones at the same time ; and, in the long bones, may lead to filling up of the medullary and Haversian canals with bony substance, with some thicken- ing of the bone generally. This condition is not recognizable with certainty during life. Increase of Length of Bones.—Allusion has afteady been made atp. 271 to the hypertrophy of bone which sometimes follows chronic osteitis. This increased growth of bone, as a result of morbid conditions, has been investi- gated by Stanley and Paget in this country, and by Langenbeck and others on the continent. It has been observed in connection with necrosis, chronic osteitis, and chronic abscess : and also with chronic hypermmia of the soft parts of a limb. Langenbeck, fi’om his observations, concludes that morbid changes which give rise to irritation and hypersemia of the osseous tissue lead, as loug as the growth of bone continues, to an increase both in the length and in the thickness of bones ; and that the increase of growth in length affects especially the diseased bones, but may also occur in a healthy bone of the same limb, l^metimes, as Paget has pointed out, the long existence of an ulcer of the integuments in a young person may produce thickening and elongation of the bone. AVhen the femur undergoes elongation in this way, the inequality in length of the limb, unless the opposite limb be lengthened by artificial means, may lead to talipes of the foot of the lengthened limb or to' lateral curvature of the spine. The tibia sometimes becomes elongated, while the fibula remains of its normal length : and in such cases the former bone becomes curved. The diagnosis of this condition from the curvature of rickets consists, according to Paget, in the marked elongation: in the absence of thickening of the ends of the bone, which are usually even more nearly equal in size to the shaft than in the natural state, on account of the thickening of the latter: and especially in the fact that “ the rickety tibia is compressed, usually curved inwards, its shaft is flattened laterally, and its margins arc naiTow and spinous ;