674 DISEASES OF THE MOUTJI AND THROAT. Syphilitic Laryngitis.—According to Mackenzie, syphilitic disease i iniiocnons impalpable powder, such as [^Toiiiul ami dried sugai*. 'I'lie strength | may vary, one part of nitrate of silver being mixed Avitli twelve, sixteen, or twenty of sugar, A small (juantity of the powder so ])rej)ared should be put i into the end of a thick glass tube, M'hich has been bent nearly at right angles about one inch from its extremity. The Surgeon, placing his iinger over the i orifice of the straight part of the tube, carries the bent end behind the tongue, ’ over the epiglottis ; he then directs the patient to make a sudden inspiration, and at the moment of his doing so takes away his thumb, so as to allow the powder to be drawn out of the tube and into the air-passages along with the ! current of inspired air. In this way the nitrate of silver may, in some cases, ; be very conveniently applied to the whole of the affected mucous surfaces without the irritation produced by the friction of the sponge. Injection of the Solution of Nitrate of Silver may easily be done by means of the instrument that is here delineated (Fig. 750), and which I have had constructed for this purpose. It consists of a silver tube, perforated at the end, and having a small piston moving in it with a sponge attached to its lower surface. The instrument is charged by dipping the end in the solu- tion, and then drawing back the piston-rod. It is then passed into the pharynx, or between the lips of the glottis, and the fluid is injected into the air-passages or upon the inflamed surfaces in a number of fine streams, by pushing down the piston and compressing the sponge. By means of this laryngeal syringe the nitrate of silver can be applied to any part of the pharynx, without irritating the tender mucous membrane by the contact of a rough body ; and, by applying its nozzle to or between the lips of the glottis, the fluid may be readily thrown down into the interior of the larynx with the greatest certainty and ease. In those cases in which it is wished to applv the solution of the nitrate of silver to the air-passage, I greatly prefer using this simple instrument to the ordinary sponge or brash, the mere pressure of wBich upon a tender mucous surface may be a soince of irritation. When the mucons membrane behind the velum, or that of the posterior nares, is affected, the solution may readily be applied to these parts by turning the end of the instrument upw'ards, and then injecting it directly on to the affected surfaces. In whatever way the caustic is used, its application should be repeated alwut every second or third day, in order to insure its full effects. In some instances, hownver, advantages may be obtained by using it every day ; in others, again, a longer interval is required than that just stated. forms about 3 per cent, of all affections of the larynx. In the early exanthe- matous stage of syphilis, slight hyiDermmia, with a little hoarseness, is not uncommon, but it is usually so slight as to pass unnoticed. In the later secondary stages, condylomata or mucous tubercles may be met with. They can be recognized only by the laryngoscope, by means of which they can be ..1. /i ■ i] : l j { li li !( II I