EXCISION OF JOINTS. 382 ally, follow any operation. I liave lost only one patient out of very many in Avliom I have excised the elbow-joint. The principal danj^er after this opera tion arises from dilfnse ^npiiuratioii of the medullary canal of the humerus. I have seen this happen m two fatal cases in the practice of others, pyaBmia developing m both instances; and in a third, in which the patient lost his life It IS probable that death, which was attributed to pneumonia, occurred from’ the same cause. Ulna or Radius —One or other of the bones of the forearm has occasion- a y been excised with advantage, leaving a sufficiently useful limb with good power in the hand. Carnochan of New York and Jones of Jersey have sue- cessfully excised the whole ulna. In a case recorded, by Weist (U.S.), nearly the whole ulna was removed on account of gunshot-wound. Care Avas taken to preserve as much as possible of the periosteum; and reproduction of the bone, forming a very useful limb, had taken place at the end of a year. Butts of viiginia has lemoA^ed the Avhole radius. In a woman who was under my caie about twenty years ago, I also resected successfully the whole radius, Avith t ;; II !) i if- i; ■1 \ ■; If '}■ Fig. 543.—The Radius after Removal. the exception of its articular head, which was sound (Fig. 543); and a useful arm, of Avhich the annexed figure is a good representation, was left (Fig. 542). After a time the hand gradually inclines towards the radial side of the ami: but, although the articulation between it and the forearm is but a slender one through the medium of the ulna, a A-ery useful member Avill be left. These operations do not require any specific rules for their performance ; the bone is exposed by a long incision in the direction of, and made by slitting up, the sinuses that burrow amongst the muscles, and is then carefully dissected out from the parts amongst which it lies; especial care being taken to preserve the periosteum and any new bony deposits that may already have been formed. In oiie case in which the elboAV-joint Avas involved, and the radius diseased, instead of amputating the limb I obtained an excellent result by excision of the articulation as Avell as of the affected bone. The patient, a builder about thirty years of age, was able, four years after the opemtion, to use his hand not only in all the ordinary purposes of life, but also in his trade. The Olecranon has been successfully removed in some instances ; for dis- ease by Birkett of Gruy’s Hospital; and on account of non-union after fracture by Newman of Stamford. In each case a useful arm Avas retained. Wrist.—Excision of the AAU’ist formerly found less favour Avith Surgeons