DISEASES OE THE TESTIS AND CORD. I i5cH which tlie injection fails, if practised in the manner tliat will immediately be described. There can be no donbt that, as a first remedy, iodine-injection is preferable to the seton, in the treatment of hydrocele ; but when injection has failed, and this from no want of care on the part of the Surgeon, or of attention to the after-treatment of the case, but apparently fi-oin insufficient inflammation having been set up in the tunica vaginalis, the seton will, I think, be found to be the most certain means of accomplishing our object. It is true that several objections may be urged to the use of the seton ; it requires much watching and care, and is occasionally apt to excite a dangerous amount of inflammation in the areolar tissue of the scrotum ; and these objections are, to my mind, sufficiently valid to prevent our employing it as the ordinary treatment for the radical cure of hydrocele. But it must be remembered, that the particular cases to which I am now alluding are those in which ordinary means have iwoved insufficient to excite i3roper action, and in which, consequently, it would appear as if a greater amount of irritation could safely be borne. Indeed, nothing is more remarkable than the difference in the intensity of the inflammation that is set up in different individuals by the means that are commonly employed in the treatment of hydrocele.- In some cases the most irritating injections may be throvTi into the tunica vaginalis, or a seton may be drawn through the scrotum and left there for days, not only without giving rise to any injurious inflammation, but without setting up sufficient to bring about a cure of the disease ; whilst in other instances simple tapping may effect a radical cure, or may give rise to such an amount of irritation as to terminate in a fatal sloughing of the scrotum. The seton that I employ in these cases is composed of one or two threads of dentist’s silk. It may be introduced by means of a ntevus needle, the fluid of the hych'ocele being allowed to drain away through the punctures thus made ; or, far better, by tapping the hydrocele, and then - passing a needle about six inches long, armed with the seton, up the cannula, drawing it through the upper part of the scrotum, and then removing the cannula, cutting off the needle, and knotting the thread loosely (Fig. DC, p. 248, Yol. I.). The thread should not be removed until the scrotum swells and becomes red, with some tenderness of the testis and effusion into the tunica vaginalis. Ydien these effects have been produced, it may be cut and withdrawn, and the case treated in the same way as when the radical cure has been attempted by iodine injection ; viz., by rest and antiphlogistic treatment. The length of time during which the seton must be left in before sufficient, or even any in- flammation is produced, varies very considerably. In most instances, the proper amount of inflammation is excited in fi’om twenty-four to thirty hours ; but in other cases the seton may be left in for ten or twelve days, giving rise to but little inflammation, although a radical cure may result. The Antiseptic Method has been successfully applied to the treatment of hydrocele by Yolkmann, and Eeyher of Dorpat. The sac is incised along its anterior aspect, and the fluid evacuated ; the tunica vaginalis is then attaclied to the skin by a few points of suture, and the parts dressed autiseptically. fl’his treatment is said to be more certain and less painful than that by the seton. It would be especially useful in old ca.ses with thickened walls in which the injection had failed. Acupxinctnre.—Small hydroceles in elderly men may sometimes be dis-