UROyii' ABSCESS BETWEEN BLADDER AND RECTUM. 1055 :|■•onl the urethra, tine threads of mucus may often be seen floatiiif^ in the rrine, especially in tliat hret passed, and in tlie last few drops expelled by ;:;.raining if these 1x3 collected separately. Frequency of micturition and some i'.ain during and after the act may be present. Examination by the rectum ; aows that the prostate is slightly tender, hard, and enlarged, sometimes more n one side than the other. A chronic abscess may slowly form without great icrease in the intensity of the symptoms. 'I'his complication, which is for- anately rare, is recognized by examination from the rectum. Should the bscess burst into the urethra, the cavity in the indurated gland-tissue may be ery slow in healing. I have known a case in which, after many years, the restate remained hard and enlarged, and on pressing firmly on it from the -v-ctiim, pus could be made to flow from the urethra. The patient was obliged 0 draw olf his water with a catheter, but suffered very little in his general fteidth. The Dkujnosis of this condition from tubercular disease of the prostate is ften extremely difficult. Its extremely chronic nature, the absence of any isease of the testicles or vesiculas seininales, the more uniform and regular mlargement of the gland, and the history of the case will usually determine its latime. The Treatment of this consists in repeatedly blistering the perinmum. ►lelladonna-suppositories may sometimes relieve the uncomfortable sensations. Any treatment by the urethra, such as injections of nitrate of silver, will only aggravate the condition. Tonics, change of air, and sea-bathing are sometimes r>f use. I odide of potassium may be given, or the iodide of iron if the patient ' s anjemic. Should an abscess form and point towards the rectum or perinmum, t must be opened. Prostatorrhcea has been described by Gross as a discharge of clear glairy nucus fi’om the jn’ostate, in consequence of irritation of that organ. The llisease is chai’acterized by the discharge of a few drops of ropy, viscid mucus T'rom the urethra after micturition or defecation. It is of importance chiefly ;Tom its liability to be confounded with spermatorrhcea, and from the depressing affect consequently produced upon the patient’s mind. The Diagnosis of prostatorrhcea from spennatorrhcea may be effected by __ iiicroscopical examination of the characters of the discharge. iThe Treatment consists in attention to the state of the general health ; the ludministration of tonics, more especially of iron and mix vomica ; the removal of any local source of in-itation in the urethra, rectum, or anus, as stricture, piles, or fissure ; and the local application to the ]irostatic portion of the -.urethra of the nitrate of silver. The application of a blister to the perinmum •is beneficial in some cases. Deep-seated and very Chronic Abscess will sometimes slowly form in the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, behind the prostate, giving rise 'by its pressure to a long train of obscure symptoms, indicative of irritation iabout the.se organs, such as dysuria, strangmy, and occasional admixture of pus 'with the urine. On careful examination of the perinmum and rectum, some slight hardness may [jerhaps be deeply felt in the mesial line, or towards one side of it. This slowly increases, and j)erineal abscess of an ill-defined <‘haracter develoi)S. When this lias become sufficiently evident, a free ; incision should be made into it, when jms in greater or less abundance will •esciipe. On cfirefnl exjiloration by a ])robe of the cavity thus opened up, a