997 THE OPERATION WITH J/AiVV SITTINGS. L’- jstroyed in one sitting, bnt most commonly from tliree to five or six -were .'quired ; these were, if possible, conducted at intervals of three or four days, iiongh this depended upon the amount of irritation induced by them. At the first sitting, it was considered sufficient to break up the stone ; the fragments being left to be dealt with subsequently. This sitting was by far le most important of all; it was not permitted to occupy more than a very w minutes. After the stone had been broken up, the patient was made to 3 in bed on his back for about tAventy-four hours, Avas kept Avarm, and plenti- .lly supplied Avith diluents. He Avas not allowed to pass water in a urinal, )!• to stand up nor lean fonvard, lest the fragments should fall against or ;^!Come fixed in the neck of the bladder, where they might produce great ^ritation and distress. Much of the success of lithotrity formerly depended lOon the gentleness Avith Avhich the proceedings Avere conducted during the ^•’st sitting, and the care Avith which the patient Avas managed for a day or two ibsequently. , After the stone had been broken, little detritus usually escaped during the "■st twenty-four hours ; but after this it was expelled, in some cases in con- ilerable quantity, each time the urine was passed. In others, it did not .cape so readily ; and then the Surgeon was often called upon to use Civiale’s 'Strumeut (Fig. 878), by Avhich he could seize the smaller fragments, crush lem, and, screAving the instrument home, extract the beak filled Avith detritus. . using this instrument, however, it was necessary not to get hold of too ;ge a fragment ; for in breaking this the beak was easily clogged Avith litritus in such a Avay that it could not ■)se, and then there Avas considerable fficulty in withdrawing it. If this ■3ident occurred, the scoop was emptied passing its beak back into the dder, tapping sharply upon the instru- ct, and moAung the male branch to H fro. In crushing fr'agments behind 3 prostate, Civiale turned the concave A of the beak doAvnwards, and seized ; fragment in this position (Fig. 882). doing this, hoAvever, gi-eat care must taken not to nip the mucous mem- .ne of the bladder. ! Before 1878 much difference existed : the practice of Surgeons Avith respect washing out the bladder, but the ijority abstained from so doing, •■ecially at the fiist sitting. The objec- rn to this practice arose from the fear of setting up or aggravating titis, as it Avas not then fully recognized that the mechanical injury is a powerful cause of cystitis than the accumulation of a quantity of foul I decomposing mucus. The instruments used for Avashing out the dder before the invention of those to be presently described Avere chiefly heters of the form represented in Figs. 88(5—888. .clover, hoAvever, had iiiA^ented more than twenty yefirs ago an ingenious and Fig. Lithotrity Catheters. 886.—Eyes at Extremity. Fig. 887.—Eye in Concavity. Fig. 888.—Eye in Convexity.