48 DISEASES OF THE LYMPH ATIG SYSTEM. I plete for some weeks or even months. These unpleasant consequences can frequently he to a great extent averted by early opening, and free scraping with a sharp spoon (Fig. 95, Vol. L). As soon as the gland is evidently softening, the operation may be performed. The gland is steadied between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and a puncture made into it with a scalpel about a quarter of an inch in width. A probe may then be passed along the scalpel, so as to serve as a guide to the opening in the capsule. The scalpel is then Avitlidrawn, and a small sharp spoon passed along the probe into the gland. By forcibly squeezing the gland and scraping with the spoon, the whole of its caseous contents can usually be removed without difficulty. A very fine drainage tube may then be inserted for a few days, after which healing will probably take place without difficulty. The results of this little operation are very much better if strict antiseptic precautions are observed ; for if the cavity becomes filled with decomposing discharges, troublesome diffuse suppuration may follow in the areolar tissue. Iodoform- or salicylic- wool forms the best dressing in most cases. If several glands lie close together, it is sometimes possible to scrape more than one from a single \ opening. The scars left after this mode of treatment are very slight. j If an aperture already exists leading down to an indurated mass, the sinus may be freely scraped in the same way, and healing is often hastened by the insertion of a small quantity of iodoform into the track left after the opera- tion. If after an abscess has formed and been opened, an iri’egular ca^dty is left with masses of degenerating gland tissue projecting into it, these may be scraped away by a sharp spoon, or destroyed by potassa fusa. In applying the caustic potash; care must be taken that its action do not spread too widely ; this may usually be avoided by coating the suiTOunding integuments vdth collodion. The blue undermined skin left after spontaneous bursting of a scrofulous abscess of the glands delays healing, and is useless itself for any purposes of repair. It must therefore be destroyed, however large the resulting sore may at first appear to be. This may be done by means of potassa fusa, but cutting it with scissors in a number of lines radiating from the central opening will usually make it in great part melt away, and at the same time is free from the risk of destroying more than is necessary. Extirpation of chronically inflamed and caseating lymphatic glands has been recommended with the view of preventing general tubercular infection; but for this reason alone it is not to be recommended. It is impossible in the vast majority of cases to remove all or nearly all the affected glands, and if undertaken, it may lead to more serious and extensive dissections than might at first appear requisite ; for a chain of diseased glands often extends a considerable distance, and after one has been removed, others come into sight. Cases, however, occasionally occur, in which such a procedure may be deemed advisable, the affected glands being large and indurated, and the disease of many years’ standing ; their extirpation may then be proper, and I have not unfrequently had occasion in such circumstances to remove them from the axilla, from the submaxillary region, and from the posterior triangle of the neck. The constitutional treatment of chronic strumous disease of the glands is fully described in the Chapter on Scrofula and Tubercle, Vol. I., p. 1063.