116 ANEURISM. lias increased rapidly, or has suddenly hecome diffused, and thus is exerting great pressure and causing- severe tension of the surrounding parts. The accident is not uncommon also after operations undertaken for the cure of aneurism in which the wound conies in close jiroxiraity to the sac. The inflammation is then merely an extension from that in the wound, and is usually dependent upon septic contamination. Tliough the process is usually spoken of as suppuration of the sac, the inflammation commences in the tissues surrounding- the aneurism, the sloughing of the sac itself being a secondary process dependent upon its nutrition being cut off by the pus that forms around it. Suppuration is peculiarly liable to happen around tumours of a large size that have become partly diffused, that are filled with masses of decolourized fibrine, and that are situated in places where the areolar tissue is abundant and lax, as in the axilla. The symptoms of this condition impending are swelling, tension with heat, throbbing, and redness of the parts around the tumour ; the integuments covering it pit on pressure, and are evidently deeply inflamed, at the same time that there is a good deal of fever and general constitutional disturbance. As the suppuration advances, the ordinary signs of acute abscess occur ; the skin covering the tumour becomes red and livid at one part, where pointing takes place ; and if the Surgeon make an incision into it, or if the tumoui- burst (as assuredly it will if left to itself), a quantity of pus mixed with large masses of broken down coagula will be let out. The discharge of the contents of the aneurismal sac, may be followed by so profuse a gush of arterial blood that the patient is suddenly exhausted. Occasionally, however, as a consequence of the inflammation of the sm-- rounding tissues, the artery becomes firmly plugged by a thrombus above and below the opening into the aneurism before the sac gives way, and thus hmmorrhage may be prevented and a spontaneous cure result, the cavity closing like an ordinary abscess after the sloughs and the broken-down clots have been discharged. Causes of Death from Aneurism.—An aneurism may prove fatal in various ways. It does so when internal, most frequently by jjressure on pai-ts of importance in its vicinity, the patient being destroyed by the exhaustion induced by interference with their functions ; this is usually the way in which aneurisms of the aorta occasion death. In other cases the sac bursts into the pericardium, pleura, or peritoneum, and sudden death may occm- from loss of blood ; or asphyxia may result from its giving way into the trachea. Then, again, death may result by the occm-rence of symope, more especially if the aneurism be of large size, and situated near the root of the aorta. Embolism of the cerebral arteries may occur in consequence of the detachment of a clot. External anem’ism most commonly proves fatal by rupture of the sac; this may either take place into the interior of a limb, giving rise to one or other of the diffused forms of aneurism, and terminate fatally by tlie induction of syncope or gangrene; or an aneurism may kill by rupture occurring externally, on one of tlie surfaces of the body. The rupture of an aneurism is not always immediately fatal, the aperture in the sac being plugged up by a mass of coagulum, as happened in ca.se (Fig. 448); on the gradual detachment of the deeper portions of which the bleeding may recur in small quantities at intervals, and more or less speedily carry off the patient. On the mucous surfaces, as of the oesophagus or trachea, rupture