105 VARIETIES. \ ! f into the hilse variety of the disease by the giving Avay or atrophy of some of its coats. ' Surgeons generally recognize two varieties of folsc aneurism—the mrciim- jj scribed and the diffused. By the Circumscribed False Aneurism is meant that ' form of the disease in which the blood is still contained within a sac, formed by at least one of the arterial coats, however expanded and altered in its ■ structure this may be. The term Diffused False Aneurism includes two ' distinct varieties of the disease. In one case there is rupture of the sac, with general and Avidely spread extravasation of blood into the areolar tissue of the limb or part. In the other case it happens that the sac formed by the dilatation and hypertrophy of the outer coat of the artery is ruptured, and the : blood, although effused beyond this, is still confined in a sac of condensed . areolar tissue, formed by that of the structures into which the blood has been effused, matted together with coagulum and inflammatory exudation. :I. Dissecting Aneurism is a remarkable form of the disease, originally described by Shekelton, in Avhich the sac is situated in the Avail of the artery ; = between its coats. It originates in consequence of the internal coat of the •, vessel becoming eroded, and giving Av^ay before any of that adhesion and ; matting together of the tissues around the patch has taken place, which pre- r vents the blood from being forced between the different timics of the artery. 444.—Ruiituve of Lining Aloinhnineof Aorto. giving rise to a Dissecting Aneurism which hurst into rericnnlium. Aorta much dilateti and covered with Calcareous Plates, exc.e))t where the Aneurism occurred: there it was atheromatous. aneurism always takes place longitudinally along the middle coat, and may often extend to a A'ery considerable distance. Thus it may reach from the arch of the aorta to the iliacs, or from the same part to the bifurcation of the ;; The rupture, although originating in s the interaal coat, always extends between the layei’s of the middle one, splitting this up into tAvo laminm, and in some r; cases it separates also the middle from e the external tunic of the A'essel. On y examining the artery in a case of dis- f secting aneurism, its coats will always |; be found to be easily separable from one another, and to be A-ery lacerable, often f appearing soft and sodden as if mace- : rated. For the production of this ' disease, indeed, tAvo conditions are ii necessary ; 1. That there be athero- matous disease of the artery, destroying : a portion of the internal and of the innennost layers of the middle coat; and 2. That there be also a general V softening of the tissue of the middle : I coat, with want of cohesion between the different tunics of the artery : this, lyj indeed, maybe considered as the essen- i<!:f tial condition disposing to the forma- fi-tion of a dissecting aneurism, and ?'»cau.sing the disease to assume this -rather than the sacculated form. « The rupture constituting dissecting