SUPPURATION OF CAROTID ANEURISM. 175 ■which corresponds to the lower two inches of the inner border of the sterno- inastoid, and tlie other to the inner two inches of tlie clavicle. The incisions are deepened till the muscle comes into view, the inner head is then divided and turned up in the V'Shaped flap. The second rallyino- point is the edge of the sterno-hyoid. While searching for this, care must be taken not to wound the anterior jugular vein vdiicli crosses the muscle transversely on its way to join the external jugular. When the edge of the muscle is found, it may be drawn on one side with a spatula, or if necessary, notched. The sterno-thyroid scarcely requires dinsion. The sheath of the vessels now comes into view, and must be cautiously opened, the Surgeon keeping care- fully to the tracheal side so as to avoid the vein. There is usually a wide interval between the artery and the vein and nerve on the right side ; on the left side more care is required, as the vein most commonly overlaps the artery. After ligature of the common carotid it is interesting to observe that the collateral supply is not afforded by any of the branches of the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, but by the subclavian artery of the same side. In a case related by Porter, in which the right carotid had been tied, the subclavian and vertebral arteries on the same side were enlarged to at least double their natural diameters, and the chief communications outside the skull took place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, which were enlarged ; whilst inside the cranium the vertebral took the place of the internal carotid. Immediately after the operation the blood may be so freely conveyed to the distal side of the vessel, by the free communication subsisting between the arteries of opposite sides, both within and without the cranium, that a continuance or a speedy return of jDulsation in the sac is of common occurrence. This condition, however, usually dis- appears after a time by the gradual consolidation of the tumour, and indeed may generally be looked upon as a favourable sign ; being very seldom asso- ciated 'W'ith those cerebral symptoms that, as will immediately be explained, commonly prove fatal after this operation. Occasionally the pulsation con- tinues, and the tumour gradually increases in size in spite of the occlusion of the main tnmk. Suppuration of the sac is not of very uncommon occurrence after the ligature of the carotid for aneurism—sometimes even after so considerable an interval as eight months, as happened in a case related by Post. In the majority of these instances, the patient eventually does well ; but death may result by the tumour pressing upon the pharynx and larynx, or by the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage, which may take place either from the part to which the ligature has been applied, or from the suppurating sac. In the first instance, it usually occurs about the period of the separation of the ligature ; in the second, it may happen at a considerably later period, even after many weeks. In a case under the care of H. Morris, suppuration took place round the sac fifteen Aveeks after the ligature was applied to the main trunk' Pus was let out l)y au incision, after which the tumour rapidly increased with return of pulsation. The sac Avas then laid open. The aneurism Avas found to haA'e sprung from the external carotid, and the recurrent stream of blood was derived entirely from the branches of that vessel. The trunk aboAX the Kic, tlie facial, and the superior thyroid Avere ligatured, and the patient made a good recovery. As the suppuration is often due iu all proliability to the pro.ximity of the Avound and the ligature to the aneurism, it has been sug-