105S the uterus in the female. DISJ'JASES OF tup: prostate. 1 fii rare instances, the veriiinontaiiiim alone appears to 1)C allected, foriniii^ a thickened polypoid projection, which projects in a valvular manner, and interferes materially with the flow of urine. fl’hompson points out that, as has heen suggested by Velpeau, remarkabk' analogies exist between these prostatio outgrowths and the fibroid tumours of the uterus. This view is in accordance with the teaching of Leuckart, Simpson, and others, that the prostatic utricle in the male is the analogue of Mechanical Effects of Enlarged Prostate on the Urinary Organs.— Enlargements of the prostate are productive of inconvenience with regard to the flow of urine, giving rise either to retention or to incontinence, or to a kind of mixture of both conditions. When the lateral lobes are enlarged, there is a diminution of the lateral or transverse diameter of the canal, at the same time that the antcro-posterior diameter is increased, so that the canal becomes a chink-like passage. The m'ethra also becomes greatly elongated and tortuous; and is diverted from the natural direction—this varying with the form of enlargement. When the median portion is enlarged, there is a more or les.s ailgular curvature of the canal at the prostatic portion. When, in addition, there is enlargement of a lateral lobe, the urethra is curved also laterally in the direction of the enlarged lobe. The lateral deviation may occur also when there is enlargement of the middle lobe ; but it then affects both sides. The inner orifice of the urethra also undergoes changes. Enlargement of the posterior part of the middle portion of the prostate gives it a crescentic form, with the convexity directed upwards: and, in enlargement of either lateral lobe, the convexity of the crescent lies towards the side opposite the enlarged lobe. Sometimes, when there are two or more irregularly enlarged lobes, the orifice is very much distorted, elongated, and tortuous. Sometimes, in cases of valvular or pedunculated projections from the posterior portions, the orifice appears to be overlapped altogether. This condition existed in the case from which the accompanying drawing (Fig. 913) was taken ; the third, or median lobe forming a pedunculated tumour which acted like a valve—obstructing the exit of the urine from the bladder, though it did not offer any obstacle to the introduction of a catheter. The elongation and expansion of the prostatic portion of the urethra gives rise to an increase in its capacity, so that it sometimes holds two or three ounces of urine ; and the elongation will carry the neck of the bladder upwards and behind the pubes, to a considerable distance from its normal position. While the lateral enlagements cause the urethra to assume a somewhat tor- tuous course, the middle lobe, if hypertrophied, may readily occasion retention, by projecting against the entrance to this winding channel, and falling o\er 1 like a valve whenever the patient attempts to pass urine, as in lig. 91-1. this condition no urine is passed until by accumulation within the bladder t ic neck has become so stretched that the valve-like obstruction no longer c oses Fig. <113.—Bladder laid open, showing Enlargement of Urethral Portion of Prostate. I 1