303 RICKETS—S YMPTOMS. of feeble motliei’S tend to become rickety. The health of the father has not been shown to exert any influence. Parrot has lately maintained that syphilis in the parents may cause rickets in the child, ljut against this there is, as Sir AVilliam Jenner has pointed out, one unanswerable argument ; in a family of rickety children, as a rule, the younger members are most affected, while in inherited syphilis it is exactly the reverse. Tubercle and scrofula have no definite connection with rickets, in fact, they are seldom met with in the same subject. A deficiency of lime in the water of the district has been also stated to be a cause of this disease, but this is evidently not the case, for rickets is far more common in London, which is supplied with water containing a considerable amount of lime, than in Glasgow where the water contains merely a trace. Symptoms.—These may be divided into general symptoms and those referable to the changes in the bones. The general sym2Jtoms are the follow- ing : the child may be thin, but is more often apparently well-nourished, sometimes very fat. Its mucous membranes are pale, but the cheeks are often redder than natural. On careful examination, however, with a lens, this will be seen to be caused by a network of dilated capillaries in the true skin. A most characteristic sign is profuse sweating of the forehead when the child is asleep, the rest of the body often being at the same time hot and dry, though the thermometer rarely shows any marked elevation of temperature. There is often general tenderness of the body, so that any handling is painful; partly in consequence of this and partly from the heat of the body, the child kicks* off its bed-clothes at night, so that it is sometimes im.possible to keep it covered, unless it is made to sleep in flannel drawers and a jersey. The digestion is often good, but there is a tendency to attacks of gastric catarrh, with a furred white tongue and perhaps vomiting. The motions are clay- coloured and offensive. Flatulence is common, and owing to the weakness of the muscles, which is often a marked effect of rickets, the child usually becomes pot-l)ellied. The spleen is frequently enlarged, and in some cases, the liver also. The urine presents, as a rule, nothing characteristic. It may contam an excess of phosphate of lime, but this is not the result of softening of the bones, but evidence of imperfect assimilation. The changes observed in the hones appear early in the disease. They consist of enlargement of the articular ends, most marked at the points of junction of the shaft with the epiphyses ; in consequence of. which the joints appear to be swollen. The enlargement is also especially marked at the junc- tions of the ribs with their cartilages, which form prominent rounded swellings, felt and sometimes clearly seen through the skin, giving rise to the appearance which has been termed the “ rickety rosary.” At a later period, owing to the softness of their structure, the bones bend, giving rise to various characteristic deformities. Humphry and Langenbeck have called attention to the want of growth in length often observed in rickets. Humplny says that the humerus and femur are about one-fourth shorter in rickety subjects than in healthy individuals of the same age. The most important deformities arising in different parts are the following:—I’he head early appears large, the forehead being especially protuberant, and the face small. The fontanelles, especially the anterior, are very slow in closing ; the bones of the skull may be thickened, forming prominent ridges on each side of the sutures, though occasionally in the occipital they arc unduly thin. The sjjinem young children