OPERATIONS FOR ANGULAR ANKYLOSIS OF HIP. 473 of IG, who had rectangular osseous ankylosis of the right hip-joiiit. The patient made a slow' hut a good recovery wdth a straight and useful limb. There was no attempt at the formation of a false joint, but consolidation took place at the line of section. The operation, having a double object in view, viz., the rectification of the position of the limb, and the establishment of a mobile false joint near to the obliterated ilio-femoral articulation, was thus show'll to be practicable ; yet it had scarcely taken a place in surgical literature or practice, until Sayre of Xew York, in 1802, by performing it in two cases successfully, brought it iirominently before the Pro- fession, and thus led to its establishment as a recog- nized operation for the remedying of these deformi- ties. Sayre is undoubtedly entitled to the great merit of having established the operation on a distinct principle. His object was twofold ; first, to go above the trochanter minor in the section of the bone, so as to retain the attachment of the psoas and iliacus muscles to the shaft for the purpose of flexion ; and secondly, by cutting out a semicircular piece of bone. Fig. 596.—Lines of section in with its convexity upwards, and then rounding off foTs^of the upper end of the low'cr fragment, more nearly to imitate the natural shape of the joint, for the purposes of motion and to prevent slipping of the bones. The accompanying Fig. 596, shows the situation and shape of Sayre’s section, and of the piece of bone that he removes. The section of the bone is effected after its exposure, by means of the chain saw; the transverse section being first made, the convex one next (Fig. 597). W. Adams has devised a much more simple operation, having in view the same objects. His plan is to di^dde the neck of the thigh-bone subcutaneously Fig. 597.—Application of Chain Saw in Sayre’s Operation. about its centre. This idea he put in practice in December, 1869, when he performed the first subcutaneous section of the neck of the femur for the relief of deformity resulting from angular ankylosis. This operation is done as follows. A tenotome, having been introduced a little above the top of the great trochanter, is caiTied straight down to the neck of the femur, dividing the muscles and opening the capsule freely. The knife being withdrawn, a saw of this size (Fig. 598), set in a strong handle, is passed dow'ii to the bone, which is cut through from before backwards (Fig. 599). The