DISEASES OE THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 1140 cause. These various forms of the disease liave ))cen descriljod in different; parts of this work. Tlie true idiojpcithic (jangrenc of tlie penis is, howeA'cr, a very i-ai'c disease; and Deniarquay, who has specially directed attention to it, finds hut few instances of it in the records of surgery. It has chiefly been met with in people of advanced age or of broken constitution, who, whilst suffering fi’om some local affection of the organ, have been attacked by acute febrile disease, such as typhoid or small-pox, or have become the subjects of pya3inia. In some cases it is probably embolic. The disease, when affecting tlie body of the penis, is often fatal—possibly by hmmoiThage on the separation of the slough. When the gians only is attacked, the prospect is better. But in either case—especially in the former—mutilation of the organ to a serious extent will result. The Treatment of gangrene of the penis presents nothing special, with the exception of restraining haemorrhage by means of the actual cautery, and preventing or repairing loss of substance in the urethral wall, if it be in vaded by the disease and involved in the destruction resulting. Fibrous Tumour of the Penis.—The penis may be the seat of fibroid and other tumours. The accompanying drawing (Tig. 958) is an illustration I I UOO» A'lUlUlll X 14- mour of the Penis, success- fully removed. Qjp one springing from the fibrous tissue of the corpora caverno.'^a which I removed some years ago from the under surface of the organ. Cancer of the Penis.—The form of cancer met with in the penis is Squamous Epithelioma. It usually springs from the sulcus behind the glaiis and thence invades the neighbouring portion of the organ. It always com- mences in the anterior extremity of the penis, affecting the body of the organ only by extension from the original starting point. It appears in two forms, cither as a flat tubercle or as a distinctly papillary growth. Wien it commences as a tubercle it appears as a hard pale reddish-white mass sitmited on the gians or between the prepuce and the gians. lliis increases in size and e.xtends deeply into the organ. At last a crack forms and allows a serous discharge to exude which usually becomes very fetid. Ulcciation then rapidly takes place. Sometimes the disease appears to be very distinofi}