243 LIGATURE OF THE COMMON FEMORAL. tiiii,niishinw it from chronic ahsccss, uo serious difficulty can well be experienced; but it may hapi)eii that, when an aneurism has suppurated, considerable diffi- culty arises in determining its true nature—whether it be merely an abscess or not. Oil such cases as these, the state of the circulation in the lower part of the limb will throw mucli light. Bursal tumours, often of large size and miiltilocular, are not unfreijuently met with in the ham ; but I have never i found any great difficulty in determining their true nature, their elasticity and i roundness, together with their mobility and want of pulsation, being sufficiently i indicative of their character. The most serious diagnostic difficulty may arise I from confounding solidified aneurisms of the ham with solid tumours, of a sar- i comatous character, springing from the tibia and femur ; and I have Icnown j one case of aneurism in this condition, in which amputation was performed on i the supposition of its being a solid tumour (Fig. 447). j Treatment.—'fhe treatment of femoral and popliteal aneurism may be con- ducted either by compression or by ligature of the vessel leading to the sac. j, As a general rule, for the reasons already stated, compression should be employed in preference to ligature; but cases do arise in which, from the failure of compression, or for other reasons, it becomes necessary to ligature the femoral artery. The Treatment hi/ Compression is peculiarly applicable to these aneurisms, and indeed it is to them that it has chiefly been employed. I need, therefore, say nothing special about it here, but would refer the reader to Chapter XLIIL, page 18;"), for a description of the subject. Flexion of the knee, which may be considered a modification of compression, is applicable to these cases also, either alone or in combination with compres- sion of the main trunk. It is peculiarly applicable in those cases in which the aneuri.sm is situate entirely in the ham (see page 147). Ligature of the Common Femoral.—In looking at the femoral artery, 4 might at first be supposed that the common trunk, situated superficially 'between Poupart’s ligament and the origin of the profunda, would be the most convenient situation for the application of the ligature ; but experience has shown that deligation of the vessel here is by no means a successful operation, ’^specially when undertaken for aneurism. This arises from the shortness of ffie tnink rendering it necessary to tie the artery in close proximity to the collateral branch that will constitute the most direct and immediate agent in he anastomosing supply,—viz., the deep femoral, so that the internal coagulum vould not readily form. In addition to this, a number of small inguinal )runches, the superficial epigastric and circumflex ilii, the superior and inferior external pudic, and very commonly one of the circumflex arteries of the thigh, nore especially the internal, arise from the common trunk in its short course; -nd these vessels, though small in size, constitute a source of great embarrass- nent to the Hurgeon during the operation ; for, if wounded near their origin, hey bleed most furiously, and are a cause of considerable danger afterwards, >y interfering with the proper plugging of the vessel. The ligature of the fnimon femoral has, however, several advocates, more particularly in Ireland, '•here the operation has of late years been done nine times, for wound and neurism, with six recoveries and three deaths. The successful cases were as rilowR : Porter, sen., three; (1. If. Porter, one; Smyly, one; Macnamara. In the American war, however, the ojieration is reported to have been erformedin eighteen ca.ses with only four recoveries; and Harwell states that R 2