SPECIAL ANEUUIS2IS. 244 out of tliirty-oiie cases in which the artery ^vas tied for aneurism, luemorrha^'-e occurred in eighteen, and of these twelve died. The vessel may be reached by a vertical or a transverse incision ; of these the former is preferable. The incision commences at Poupart’s ligament, at a point midway between the symphysis pubis and anterior superior iliac spine, and is carried downwards in the line of the artery for about two inches ; the skin, fat, and superficial fascia are divided, and the lymphatic glands removed or turned on one side. The fascia lata is then divided, and the crural sheath exposed. This must be carefully opened over the artery, and the needle passed from the inner side. The femoral vein lies to the inner side, and the anterior crm-al nerve a short distance away on the outer side. The origin of the branches is very uncertain ; the Surgeon must select that part of the vessel for ligature which is most distant from any branch. The statistics of this operation are so unfavourable, especially when per- formed for aneurisms, and secondary hemorrhage has been so frequent and fatal an occurrence, in several cases requiring ligature of the external iliac for its arrest, that I do not think it is advisable to have recourse to this operation in preference to ligature of the external iliac ; and it may be laid down as a rule in surgery, that in all those cases of aneurism that are situated above the middle of the thigh, in which compression has failed and sufficient space does not intervene between the origin of the deep femoral and the upper part of the sac for the application of a ligature to the superficial femoral, the external iliac should be tied. Ligature of the Superficial Femoral.—The superficial femoral artery, in its course from the origin of the deep femoral to the apertm’e in the tendon of the adductor, is divided by the crossing of the sartorius muscle into two portions of unequal length, which have different relations to neighbouring ' structures. The upper division of the artery, which lies above the anterior : margin of the muscle, is of most interest to the kSurgeon, as it is in this part ; of its course that it is invariably ligatured in cases of aneurism. It is true | that John Hunter, in the operation which he introduced for popliteal aneurism, j exposed and tied the vessel in the middle third of the thigh ; but his example j has not been followed by modern Surgeons, on account of the far greater | difficulty in reaching the vessel here than in the first part of its course. The superficial femoral, where it lies in Scarpa’s triangle, being covered merely by the common integument, the superficial fascia and the fascia lata, may be reached by as simple an operation as any that the Surgeon has to perform for the ligature of the larger vessels. The line to the artery is taken as follows. The leg is flexed and the thigh rotated outwards. The Surgeon marks a point exactly midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. From this he draws a line to the most prominent part of the inner condyle of the femur. The point selected for tying the artery must be about five inches below Poupart’s ligament, as the ligature will then be at a safe distance from the profunda, the longest recorded point of on’gin of that vessel being four inches below the ligament. The incision (Fig. Jin) is made in the line above indicated, and should be from three to six inches in length, according to the amount of subcutaneous fat. It must be so arranged that the point selected for the application of the ligature shall be in the middle of its length. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, the fascia lata is exposed and opened to the same extent as the incision in the integu-