FTBliO-MYOMATA OF THE UTERUS, I' 93 be kept out of harm's way in front. The wire, having been properly secured, is tightened by means of the spiral screw of the sen'c-naud sufficiently to prevent all risk of lueniorrhage ; and a stout steel pin is then passed through the pedicle immediately above the constricting loop, before cutting away the tumour. After this has l)cen done, the abdominal incision is carefully closed around the stump, which is maintained in position externally by the transfixing pin. Finally the Avire is again tightened by a turn or tAvo of the screAv ; the stump is then thoroughly tanned by means of the solid per- cliloride of iron, and a dry dressing is applied. If aU go Avell, the wire usually comes aAvay about the IGth to the 20th day, leaving a cavity which heals by granulation. (2.) The intramural variety of fibro-myoma occurs in one of tAA'O forms. The first of these may be described as a more or less uniform hypertrophy of the uterine tissue, constituting the tumour commonly known as a soft fibroid. This enlargement is usually accompanied by profuse uterine haemorrhage, Avhich may occasionally necessitate active surgical interference. In such cases cither one of tAvo operations may be performed for the relief of the patient, \ iz., removal of the uterine appendages (ovaries and tubes) with a Anew to arresting hemorrhage and promoting atrophy of the growth by premature in- tluction of the menopause ; or else the above-described operation of hysterec- tomy, Avhich is on the whole the most satisfactory mode of dealing Avith these tumours. The second form of intramural fibro-myoma consists of localized h}'pertrophic groAvths which as a rule are distinctly encapsuled. When multiple, these may occasionally give rise to a considerable tumour, requiring' the same treatment as the aboA^e. (3.) The submucous variety of fibro-myoma, Avhen occurring as a more or less sessile growth, projecting into and dilating the uterine caAuty, may occasionally demand surgical interference in consequence of alarming and per- sistent haemorrhage. If the cervix be expanded over the protruding mass, a free incision, made through the capsule of the presenting portion, Avill enable the operator to shell out the tumour by a gradual process of enucleation, Avhile firm supra-pubic pressure is maintained by the hand of an assistant, in order to facilitate tlie extraction. This operation, often a A’ery seA'cre and difficult one if the groAvth be of any size, should be undertaken only for the relief of most urgent symptoms, since all submucous gi’OAvths haA'c a natural tendency to become polypoid in character, and thereby more easily removable. The ordinary fibroid polypus is usually met Avith as an OA'al or pyriform mass, attached to the posterior aspect or fundus of the uterine cavity by means of a more or less distinct pedicle. Such growths not uncommonly give rise to rejKjated and dangerous hemorrhage, often altogether disproportionate to their size. The most efficient mode of treatment consists in removal by means of a Avire ecrasenr, of Avhich the loop is passed round the pedicle and gradually tightened until division be eftected. Unless the growth be protrud- ing through the cervix, preliminary dilatation of this structure Avill be required in order to ]>ennit of the necessary manipulations. Two other varieties of uterine ])oly])i are met Avith, viz., the glandular and the cellular polyp. These usually grow from the cervix or its immediate neighbourhood, and their removal by means of the Avirc-ecraseur, or by simple toi-sion, if of small size, commonly presents no difficulty. It is an im|)ortant rule, after all operations inA'olving the uterine cavity, to