WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINE. 795 occasioning not a little embarrassment to the Surgeon ; by a careful examina- tion ami unravelling, however, of the omentum, their true nature will be made out; their fluid contents may then be discharged, and the omentum dealt with according to the rules already given. Wounds of the Intestine may accidentally occur at two periods of the operation ; either from the Surgeon cutting too freely down upon the sac, and opening this before he is aware of what he is about; or else, at the time of the division of the stricture, fi’om a portion of the gut which lies beneath it getting into the way of the edge of the knife, and being nicked by it. The first kind of accident can happen only from a certain degree of carelessness ; but it is not always so easy to avoid wounding the gut, when the stricture is so tight that the finger-nail cannot be slipped under it as a guide to the hernia- knife. In cases of this kind, a very narrow director must be used ; and this is a most dangerous instrument, as, in passing it deeply out of sight under the tight stricture, a small portion of the gut may curl up over its side into the groove, and thus become notched by the knife as this is slid along it. This accident has happened to the best and most careful Surgeons. Lawrence relates two cases that occurred to him ; and Sir A. Cooper, Cloquet, Jobert, and Liston have all met with it. It may be known to have occurred by the bubbling up of a small quantity of flatus and liquid fteces from the bottom of the incision. The Treatment of a wound of the gut must depend upon its size. When it is very small, resembling a puncture rather than a cut, the practice recommended by Sir A. Cooper should be adopted; viz., to seize the margins of the incision with a pair of forceps, and to tie a fine silk thread tightly round them, the ends of which should then be cut off, and the gut returned into the abdominal cavity. Such a proceeding as this does not appear to give rise to much, if to any, increase of danger. In a case that occun’ed to me many years ago at the Hospital, in which, owing to the excessive tight- ness of the stricture, a very narrow director only could be passed under it, the gut immediately above it was notched and opened by a kind of punctured wound ; this was tied up in the way mentioned, and after the death of the patient, which took place on the fourth day after the o|)eration from gangrene of the strangulated portion of bowel, the silk ligature was found to be com- pletely enveloped in a mass of firm plastic exudation. If the wound be of larger size, it must be closed by Lembert’s suture in the manner described in the chapter on Wounds of the Intestine (p. 8GO, Yol. I.). The gut must be very carefully cleaned with some antiseptic solution before being returned. Wound of one of the Arteries in the neighbourhood of the sac may occur during the division of the stricture, cither in consequence of some anomaly in the distribution of the vessel, or from the Surgeon dividing the pjirts in a wrong direction. This accident usually happens to the epigastric or to the obturator artery ; and Lawrence has collected fourteen recorded cases in which it occurred. The result in these has been very various ; in some the patients have died ; in others, after much loss of blood, and conse- quent faintness, the bleeding ceased spontaneously. The proper Treatment would certainly consist in cutting down upon and securing the bleeding vessel. In the event of the Surgeon operating on a case of hernia, without having been able previously to satisfy himself as to its precise character, or if froin finy cause, in dividing the stricture, he have reason to dread the proximity of an arterj-, he may safely and readily divide the constriction with a knife that