637 CANCER OF TONGUE—TREATMENT. Iq all cases of grave doubt, it is better not to wait till the advance of the disease reudei’s the nature of the growth evident. The removal of a small and superficial portion of the tongue is an operation so simple and so free from danger that it may be undertaken without hesitation for a doubtful sore upon the tongue, while if the disease be left till the glands are aftected, not only are the necessary operative procedures for its removal far more serious, but the hopes of giving even prolonged relief are very small. Treatment.—In the treatment of cancer of the tongue, medicines are utterly useless, except as palliatives of pain. No measures hold out any chance of cure, or even of prolongation of life, except the complete removal of the diseased structures, and this it is by no means easy to accomplish, as the cancerous infiltration often extends much farther than at first appears, passing deeply between the muscular fasciculi and planes, into the root of the tongue. In these deep cancerous affections there is usually great enlargement of the glands under the jaw with infiltration of the floor of the mouth and neigh- bouring soft parts to such an extent as to render it impossible to excise or in any other way remove the whole of the disease. There are two operations occasionally practised, having for their object to ; palliate the suffering or to retard the progTess of the disease : viz., Division of I the Gustatory Nerve, and Ligature of the Lingual Artery. Division of the Sensory Nerve of the Tongue.—Section of the gusta- tory branch of the fifth nerve was first proposed and practised by Hilton, with the ■view of relieving the pain of the cancerous ulcer, retarding the pro- gress of the disease, lessening the profuse salivation, and enabling the Sui-geon ; to apply ligatures for the removal of the cancer to a part that has been de- ! prived of all sensibility. This operation, which Moore repeated several times, j and to which he specially drew the attention of the Profession, undoubtedly j accomplishes the objects for wliich Hilton originally proposed and practised i it; more especially so far as relief of pain and diminution of sahvation are * concerned. And it deserves to be considered as one of the most efficient 1 modes of relief to the suffering produced by cancer of the tongue, in all < cases in which an operation for the removal of the disease is not desirable t or practicable. Division of the gustatory nerve may be done in two ways ; one origi- I nally employed by Hilton, the other adopted by Moore. Both operations c consist in dividing the gustatory nerve in that part of its course which I. extends from its emergence between the internal pterygoid muscle and the jaw i to the point where it enters the tongue. Opposite to the second molar tooth, i the nerve lies under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. There ! it can be easily reached by the division of the mucous membrane covering it, I when it will be found close behind the sublingual gland. It may be raised by I a blunt hook, seen, and divided. It was in this situation that Plilton practised i its section. The advantage of this choice of place is, that the nerve can be !*8eeii and its division thus rendered certain. The disadvantages are, that the 1. guides to the spot are not quite certain ; that the cut is apt to be obscured by 1 haemon’hagc; and that, when the disease has extended to the floor of the ■ mouth, the operation is inapplicable. Moore consequently recommended, and in five cfuses practised, section of the nerve further back. The guide to it in this situation is the last molar tooth; and a line drawn from the middle of the crown of the tooth to the angle of the jaw will cross the nerve in the exact