DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE 1056 ilec[) sinus will probably be found leading into the pelvis, and to the (U'igiual seat of the abscess. This re(]ui]’es to be 0})ened up by a free incision on one side or other of the pcrina3um, as if for lateral litliotoniy, and a pro]>er and direct exit given to the matter. The cavity must then be allowed to granulate- from the bottom. CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OP THE PROSTATE. Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate may be looked upon as a senil'! disease, seldom occurring before the age of fifty-five, but commonly met with after this. At that period of life, as Brodie observes, Avheii the haii becomes grey and scanty, when the coats of the arteries begin to become atheromatous, and Avhen the arcus senilis forms on the cornea, the prostate often becomes increased in size ; but unless the enlargement of the prostate interferes with the free escape of the urine, no disease can properly be said to be established. If we look upon the diseased enlargement of the prostate as such an amount of hypertrophy of this organ as interferes seriously Avith the discharge of the urine, Ave shall probably not find it so frequent even in old men as is generally supposed. Guthrie states that it is not commonly found in the pensioners at Greenwich Hospital. Thompson found that an enlarge- ment appreciable after death existed in 34 per cent, of men above the age of sixty ; but that such a degree of enlargement as to give rise to symptoms during life was met with only in 15 or 16 per cent, of the cases he examined. Though age must be looked upon as the primary cause of this particular hypertrophy of the prostate, there can be little doubt that it may be predis- posed to by any continued source of indtation of the urinary organs, such as gonorrhoea, stricture, or hard living. Characters.—Enlargement of the prostate is due to hypertrophy of the normal structures—muscular, fibrous, and glandular—of the organ. Most commonly there is an excess of development of the muscular and fibrous structure; when, however, the size of the gland has been very sloAvly and not greatly enlarged, there is nearly equal hypertrophy of all the tissues. In rare instances, there is excessive development of the glandular element; and in some cases homologous tumours are developed. The enlargement generally occupies the whole of the organ, and may cause its size to increase to that of a hen’s egg or a small orange. In most cases, all the lobes are enlarged equally or nearly so, but sometimes there is a disj)roportionate development of one of the lateral lobes or of the middle portion. More rarely, the lateral lobes or the anterior commissure alone are enlarged. The enlarged prostate, in the earlier stages, presents to the naked eye an a])- pearance of rotundity and increased fulness : at a more advanced stage, there may be great in-egularity of outline. There is usually no change of colour externally, and the texture of the gland is generally indurated ; though some- times, Avhen the glandular element is chiefly increased, it is found to be looser and softer than natural. On making a section, the cut surface bulges above the level ; and the shades of colour are more strongly marked than in the healthy prostate. Not uncommonly, single gland-lobules are found hyper- trophied ; and in some cases, spheroidal prominences are seen, a\ hich arc easily enucleated, and Avhich are tumours formed in the substance of the gland. Of these Ave shall presently speak. In some instances, an abuudaucc