STAPIIYLORAPin: 623 PLASTIC SURGERY OP THE PALATE. Various degrees of congenital deformity may occur in the palate and uvula : 1 thus the uvula alone may be bifid ; or the cleft may extend through the greater part or the whole of the soft palate ; or the hard palate may be divided as well (Fig. TIS) ; and, lastly, the separation may extend forwards to the integummits of the hice, producing single or double hare-lip (Fig. 702). The soft palate and uvula are not uufrequently cleft without the hard palate being- divided ; and, in some very rare cases, the lip and the hard palate are fissured ' without'the soft being cleft. The mode of origin of these deformities has , already been described (p. 013). > These malformations necessarily give rise to great inconvenience, by interfering with deglutition, and rendering ■ speech nasid and imperfect. During the swallowing of fluids, there is a tendency to re- gurgitation through the nose, though this is occasionally prevented by the approximation of the edges of the fissure in the soft palate. An infant born with a cleft palate is neces- I sarily imable to suck, and unless carefully fed ! by hand will soon perish. It must be fed solely on milk, the mother’s milk being the best, which may be drawn periodically and administered to ! the child. The feeding may be done by a pro- I perly constructed bottle, from which the milk wilfflow slowly without the necessity of sucking on the part of the child ; this must be fitted with an india-rubber tube, which must be pushed well to the back of the pharynx as the milk is given. In the absence of a bottle the child may be very efficiently fed by means of a tea- spoon. Until a few years ago, the operation was always deferred until the patient had attained the age to understand the necessity of remaining quiet during the proceeding, and was able to control his movements, as success depended in a great measure upon his remaining perfectly tranquil and steady during the necessary manipulations, which are of a tedious and protracted character ; and upon his assisting the Surgeon by opening his mouth, and not struggling during the introduction of instruments. Chloroform was never administered, from the fear that suffocation might be caused by the blood from the operation, which is always abundant, entering the air-passages. In 18GD, however, Thomas Smith, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, demonstrated that with proper care aiiajsthetics may be safely administered, and at the same time he invented a most ingenious gag, by means of which the patient’s mouth can be kept widely open without the Surgeon being interfered with either by the hands of assistants or the instrument itself. By the help of this gag, and the adminis- tration of chloroform, the operation can now l)e performed at any age ; but as the bleeding is always very free, it is advisable not to atteni])t it in too young children. At the age of three it may be safely undertaken, and the advantage of having it done before the child has learned to speak is very great. STAPHYLOP.APiiy.—The operation for the cure of a cleft in the soft palate Fig. 718.—Fissure of Hard and Soft Palate.