DISEASES OF TEE MOUTH AND TJJUOAT. 68o Fig. 754.—Epithelioma in Larynx. tlie records of 28 cases of sarcoma, states tliat Imlf tlie cases were spindle-celled. ^Malignant growths in the laryn.x may be intrinsic or extrinsic, tliat is to say, they may commence in the interior of the larynx, or s])ring from surrounding parts and secondarily invade it. All malignant growths in this region tend to assume a papillary form (Fig. 754), though they are rarely polypoid. 4'hey are most commonly single. The symptoms they give rise to are those of inter- ference with speech and respiration, with some cough and expectoration, often mixed with hlood. In the carcinomatous growths the glands are early allected. The situation of the tumour and its size are usually determined without difficulty by the laryngoscope ; but it is not easy in many cases to determine the nature of the growth. For this purpose a piece of the growth can sometimes be removed with the laryngeal forceps, and submitted to microscopic examination. Death in such cases is necessarily inevitable, either by asphyxia or by constitutional infection, if the disease be left to run its course ; and up to a comparatively recent period the Surgeon had no other means of pro- longing life than by the performance of tracheotomy. Of late years, however. Operative Surgery has added extirpation of the entire larynx to its other triumphs. Extirpation of the Larynx.—Excision of the larynx, or laryngectomy, in part or in whole has been somewhat extensively practised of late years. The first case in which this formidable operation was undertaken was that of a man 35 years of age affected with syphilitic stenosis of the larynx. Dr. P. Heron Watson in 1866 excised the larynx, in this case the patient dying three weeks afterwards of pneumonia. In 1873 Billroth oj)erated in a case of car- cinoma of the larynx. The patient survived the operation, but died in a few months from recurrence of the disease. Since this time the operation has been frequently practised. Dr. Salis Cohen has collected the details of 65 cases of complete extirpation of the larynx. The practicability of the opera- tion without causing the death of the patient has been fully demonstrated. The diseases for which the larynx has been extirpated are chiefly sarcoma and epithelioma. Of the 65 cases in Dr. Cohen’s tables, the operation was only done in 4 for non-malignant disease, in 5 for sarcoma, and in the^ remaining 56 for carcinoma. Of the 4 non-malignant cases two died. The 5 in which the operation was done for sarcoma all recovered. And 2, those of Bottini of Turin and Caselli of Eeggio-Emilia, were alive 6-^- and 2 years respectively after the operation. These cases are the more remarkable, as in Bottini’s the man not only recovered, but was able to return to his work as a postman and walk eight miles a-day. In Caselli’s case the sarcoma extended far beyond the larynx, and this Surgeon accordingly performed the remarkable operation of extirpating not only the larynx but a portion of the pharynx, the base of the tongue, the soft palate and tonsils. The patient, a girl of 11), was alive and Aveli two years after this most formidable procedure. These two cases are the most successful on record, for as Cohen most truly observes, the history of the remaining 56 presents a much more gloomy account. Of these 56 no less than 42 died either from the direct effects of the ojAeration or from rapid