687 PERFORMANCE OF TRACHEOTOMY. at the lower part of the neck. Opposite the cpisteriial notch, the wiiul-pipe is crossed by the left innominate vein, which lias been seen by ]\[acilwain lyinj; hi^h at the very point where tracheotomy is nsnally performed. A glance at these important relations will suffice to indicate the difficulty that must in many cases occur in exposing and opening the trachea. This difficulty is greatly increased when the veins of the neck have become turgid in consc- cpieiice of the pulmonic obstruction. It will be seen also that the trachea is less covered, and may consequently be much more readily reached abo\'e, than below, the isthmus of the thyroid gland. Though some Surgeons, as Velpeau, for instance, have recommended the opening to be made in the lower part of the tube, no advantage whatever is gained by so doing, whilst the difficulties of the operation are very seriously increased ; and in practice it is almost invariably opened at its upper part, usually through the first and second riiiirs. The patient should, if possible, be placed on a table in a good light. In operating on an adult, it will be found sufficient in most cases to support the patient’s shoulders with pillows, while the head is thrown as much back as practicable. In chikh’en, a small firm pillow must be placed under the neck, so as to throw the trachea as much forwards as possible. A stocking stuffed tightly with towels Avill usually be found to answer the purpose admirably. An assistant should be seated above the head of the patient; it is his duty to ■ hold the head steady Avith his wrists, while with a blunt hook in each hand he draws the wound open during the operation. At the same time he must keep the chin exactly in the middle line to serve as a guide to the Surgeon. The hooks must never be entrusted to separate assistants, as they would cer- : tainly displace the Avound from the middle line. If another assistant is i present, he may give the ana3sthetic and sponge the wound. The Surgeon ? stands to the right side of the patient. If it )3e intended to open the trachea ahove the isthmus of the thyroid body, i the incision must be commenced at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, i and carried doAA'uwards directly in the middle line for an inch to an inch and ; a half, according to the age and size of the patient and the amount of subcu- taneous fat. After dividing the integuments, the interval between the sterno- } hyoid muscles must be found, and these draAvn apart. Any veins that present t themselA’cs should be aA'oided as carefully as possible, and held on one side by the assistant, who has charge of the blunt hooks. After the muscles have Ijeen drawn aj)art, the isthmus of the thyroid body comes into vicA\', and above it is the fascia that supports it and covers the trachea. The loAver border of r the cricoid cartilage should then be felt for ; it can be recognized by its forming a slight projection above the level of the trachea, Avhich can be readily felt with the finger-nail. If the parts are Avell in vieAv, the trachea may be best exposed by the plan recommended by Bose. The layer of fascia in front I of the trachea Avhich supports the isthmus is picked up Avith a pair of force]AS at the loAver border of the cricoid cartilage, and carefully divided transversely for a distance sufficient to admit the handle of the scalpel beneath it, by means of Avhich the isthmus is pushed doAvuAvards, and the upper three rings ' of the trachea clearly exposed. The trachea is then transfixed Avith a sharp ho<jk and draAvn forwards to steady it Avhile the opening is made. It is usually recommended to insert the hook in the middle line, immediately below the cricoid cartilage, but the plan devised by J. IMarshall Avill be found more con-