TREATMENT OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 1063 I t f | Dwn the catheter so as to stifteii it. AVith such an instrument in use, the |Latient need not be confined to bed. II Jf neither of these instruments will enter the bladder, a common French II onical instrument may pass ; but this very rarely succeeds when the coude. M atheter fails. ,| A common gum-elastic catheter of full size, which may be bent to any angle 1: 1 hot water and fixed by immersing it in cold, may pass when other iustru- lents fail. Sometimes, if it be bent to a curve like that of a lithotrite, it I lay slip over the enlarged middle lobe. It must be remembered that the 5 eat of the urethra soou causes the catheter to lose the form impressed upon ^ , and consequently, if it does not enter at once, prolonged attempts to pass it 1 re useless. \ Sir B. Brodie recommended that a gum-elastic instrument, long and of ' irge size, on a well-curved stylet, so that it might preserve its curve when hat is withdrawn, should be kept in readiness for these cases. A manoeuvre jaentioned by Sir B. Brodie will often be of use in surmounting a large ! liddle lobe ; viz., after passing the gum-elastic catheter as far as it will go, lO withdraw the stylet slightly, so as to tilt up the point of the catheter, which Lhen passes over the obstacle. If none of the foregoing means succeeds, the Surgeon must have recourse to Fig. '.U6.—Enlarged Middle Lobe of PvosLate, aiTesting progress of the Catheter. ijilver instruments. If the prostate be much enlarged it may be necessary in order to reach and empty the bladder, to use a prostatic catheter. This instru- jlmient should be made of silver, and be of large size, equal to about No. 12. In order to properly enter the bladder, which is can'ied away from the surface by tthe elongated urethra, the jirostatic should be about four inches longer than :an ordinaiy catheter ; and, as the neck of the viscus is usually pushed up high behind the pubes by the projection uiiwards of the lateral lobes, the curve of :the instniraent should be greater and longer than usual. I find the best- shaped prostatic catheter to be one, the curve of which is exactly the third of 1