EXCISION OF JOINTS. 372 joint 19 were fotal. In the American war, the mortality in r>7; excision of the shoulder-joint was at the rate of 32’5 per cent. cases off Primary I excisions were mure successful than secondary : the percentage of mortality in the former (252 in numher) being 23-3, and in the secondary (393 in number)i 38-G. enj- bq Excision of the Scapula, partial or complete, may be reejuired for caries,, necrosis, or tumour of that bone. Caries and necrosis do not very commonlyi affect the scapula primarily. When the bone becomes the seat of these| diseases, it will generally be found that the acromion and the spine are the} parts affected. In such cases the progress of disease is usually very slow, aiidl it will generally be found that the carious bone may be effectually gouged out, or the sequestrum extracted, by laying open sinuses, and thus exposing the diseased osseous surface by irregular and informal operations. The whole bone has, however, become affected by necrosis, dry caries, and chronic inflam mation to an incurable extent. In two instances the whole bone has bee; excised for disease of this kind following amputation at the shoulder-joint fo; caries of the humerus. The operators were Rigaud of Strasburg, and Fergusson4 Both cases did well. The preservation of the arm after removal of the scapula is a matter of veiyj, considerable importance. The Surgeon who first ventured on the bold opera-js tion of Removal of the Whole Scapxila was Gumming, in 1808. Gaetanij; Bey, in 1830, first amputated the arm and then proceeded to extirpate thi shoulder-blade. In 1819 Liston removed the whole of the upper two-thirdi of the scapula from a lad without sacrificing the arm. In 1828 Luke removed nearly the whole of the scapula from a girl of fourteen for malignant disease! sawing across the bone through its neek and the root of the acromion, an^ thus leaving the glenoid cavity and the acromion process. Hayman, Janson|- Wfitzer, and Textor have all performed similar operations, remo'^ing ‘bf. greater part of the bone, but leaving the glenoid cavity and more or less o: |i the parts above the spine. In 1837 Mussey (U.S.) excised the whole of thf i scapula and the clavicle for an enormous osteo-sarcoma; the patient, a man was, according to Gross, in excellent health fifteen years after this oi3eration In 1850 Gross removed the whole of the scapula, with the exception of th( glenoid cavity, by sawing through the neck of the bone, for an osteo-sarconn weighing seven pounds. Indeed, the American Surgeons have distingiiishec themselves highly in this department of surgery. Thus, in 1838, McClellarl removed the whole of the scapula with the clavicle for a soft sarcoma, but th( patient died. In two cases Gilbert (U.S.) removed the scapula, half of th clavicle, and the upper extremity, one patient living a week, the other thre( months, after the operation. In 1845 Mussey successfully operated by tli( removal of the scapula, the outer half of the clavicle, and the upper extremity In the case of Gross, the only portion of the scapula left attached to the uppei extremity was the glenoid cavity. In 1856 Syme went a step frn-ther in thii direction, and, by disarticulating the bone instead of sawing through its neck removed the scapula with all its processes entire from a woman seventy year of age, also leaving the arm untouched. Since that ]3eriod complete remova of the scapula, leaving the arm untouched, has been done several times b; Syme, Jones of Jersey, Cock, Fergusson, Pollock, Heath, and othem. The arii so left becomes useful, capable of performing all the underhand movements aii( of lifting considerable weights ; and it may now be looked upon as ai