CONTENTS. XI VAon of Cavitv—Doviiitiou of Septum—Chronic Catarrh—hollicular Hypertroplij Watery Dischai’ge—O/.rcua—Chronic Tliickcning of Schncitlcrian Membi^ane Abscess — Treatment — Necrosis — 'J’reatmcnt — Calculi — Lpistaxis lieat- meut ■ TorouRS OF THE Nasal Foss.e—Polypus—Varieties—Mucous Nasal Polypi Sj’^mp- toms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Naso-pliaryngcal Tumour—Prognosis—Treatment ;Malignant Nasal Tumours—Naso-orbital Tumoui-s — Treatment — Columnar Papilloma—Diseases of Frontal Sinuses Cheeks—Salivary Fistula ■Japs —Congenital Malformation —Hypertrophy—Ulceration—Cysts and Erectile Tumoui-s—AVarty Growths—Epithelioma—Eemoval .... o57—5(50 2’AROTID Glaxo—Parotitis or Mumps—Treatment—Tumours—Diagnosis—Treat- ment—Excision of the Parotid Gland 500—50-1 Neck—Congenital Fistulai—Cystic Tumours—Solid Tumours—Congenital Tumour or Induration of the Sterno-mastoid 504—507 Thyroid Glaxo—Causes of Bronchocelc—Symptoms and Varieties—Simple Hyper- trophy— Fibrous Bronchocele — Cystic Bronchocelc—Pulsating Bronchocelc— Treatment — Ligature of Thyroid Arteries—Excision—Acute Bronchocele— Exophalmic Goitre—Malignant Tumour o07—573 Chapter LYI.—Diseases of the Jav’s and their Appendages. Diseases of the Gums axd Alveolar Processes—Abscess—Spongy Gums— 1 lypertrophy—Epulis—Simple Epulis—Treatment—Malignant Epulis—Epithe- lioma—Necrosis—Lucifer-Match Disease—Treatment—Reproduction of Jaw after removal ............ 574—573 Diseases op the Axtrum axo Upper Jaw—Suppuration in the Antram— Treatment—Cysts or Di'opsy of Antrum—Treatment—Polypus of Antrum— Dentigerous Cysts—Solid Tumoui's—Varieties—Situation and SjTnptoms— Diagnosis—Treatment—Operations on the Upper Jaw—Scooping—Partial Ex- cision of Upper Jaw—Complete Excision—Results—Tumoui-s behind the Superior JIaxilla—Langenbcck’s Osteoplastic Section 579—594 Diseases of the Lower Jaw—Abscess—Acute Suppurative Periostitis—Tumours —Varieties—Diagnosis—Treatment—Excision of the Lower Jaw . . 594—601 Diseases of the Temporo-Maxillary Articulation—Acute Arthritis— Ankylosis—Enlargement of Condyle of the Jaw—Closm’c of the Jaw . 594—601 Chapter IA'II.—Plastic Surgery of the Face and Mouth. Plastic or Reparative Surgery'—Definition—Methods of Operating—Condi- tions of success—Faulty Cicatrices—Burow’s Operation—Blepharoplasty . 602—600 J'LASTic Surgery of the Nose—Restoration of Columna—Of Ala—Of Entire Nose—Tagliacotian Ojicration—Indian Opci’cation—Formation and Attachlncnt of 1 lap—Separation of Root of Flap—Formation of Columna Nasi—Langcnbeck’s and Ollier’s Modifications—Fistulous Openings through Nasal Bones—Operation for Dei>res.scd Nose 006 613 Plastic Surgery of the Lips—Harc-li[)—Single and Double—Median Fissure— Age for Operation—Objects of Operation—Operation for Single Harc-lip— Ojwration for Double Hare-lip—Treatment by Simple Suture—Congenital 'Jransverse l'is.surcs of Cheeks—Cheiloplasty—Buchanan’s Operation for Restor- ing J.ower Lip 013—622 J’LASTIC Surgery of the J’alate—Age for Operation—Staphyloraphy— lergusson’.s Operation—J’ollock'.s Operation—Uranoplasty—I’erfomtion of the Hard Palate . ....... C9'i roq