EXCISION OF JOINTS. 3^4 conclusively establish the importance of making in all eases every effort to preserve the periosteum during a resection. Wlieii a sliort bone, as tlie os calcis, has been entirely removed, ^Yitll its periosteum attached, it is never of course regenerated, but its place is occupied by a thick, firm, fibrous cicatrix. In some cases in which a considerable portion of the diaphysis of a long bone is taken away, repair may be imperfectly accomplished owing to slough- ing of the periosteum. In a case of this kind in which two-tliirds of the shaft of the humerus was lost, Macewen succeeded in obtaining complete restoration by transplantation of small fragments of bone obtained from the wedge-shaped pieces cut out of different patients for the cure of rickety curves in the tibia. The fragments measured about two-fifths of an inch in length and thickness, and the operation was performed with antiseptic precautions. This ingenious mode of treatment certainly deserves a further trial. When a joint has been excised, either osseous or ligamentous ankylosis may take place or a false joint may be formed, and the Surgeon should endeavour to secure the form of union most suitable to the case. Thus, when the knee has been excised, as a sound and firm limb is desirable, osseous ankylosis should, if possible, be brought about; whilst in the upper extremity mobility is of more importance than strength, and we consequently aim at obtaining firm fibrous ankylosis, allowing of some mobility at the wrist and a false joint at the elbow. In fibrous ankylosis, the opposed bony surfaces are united to each other by dense fibrous tissue. In a false joint the ends of the bones become rounded and covered by a layer of fibroid tissue almost resembling cartilage in density and smoothness, and are miited by a capsule of fibrous tissue resembling normal ligaments in structure. The inner surface of this capsule is smooth and imperfectly covered by flattened cells, and thus some- what resembles a synovial membrane, but the cavity is moistened with serous fluid such as is found in false burste and not true synovia. The muscles that are naturally connected with the articular ends that have been removed form new attachments to the bones either directly or by means of the fibrous cap- sule of the false joint. The question as to the arrest of the development of the boue, and conse- quently of the whole limb on which an operation of excision has been performed, is one of gneat practical moment. It is well known to physiologists that the longitudinal growth of a bone is carried on chiefly through the medium of the layer of cartilage by which the epiphysis is attached to the shaft, and which does not become ossified until the bone has attained its full length. It has further been pointed out by Humphry, that the two epiphyses of the long bones of the limbs do not take an equal share in this development, ihat which unites last taking the greater part. Thus the upper epiphysis in the humerus and tibia, the lower epiphysis in the radius and femur, are the more important in this respect. If, therefore, in an excision practised on a growing child, the whole of the epiphysis be removed, the subsequent growth of the bone will be arrested proportionately to the share that the epiphysis which is removed takes in the development of the bone. And if that epiphysis on which the length of the bone is chiefly dependent, be removed,—as for instance, the upper epiphysis of the tibia and humerus, or the lower epiphysis of the thigh-bone—the development of the limb will be very considerably interfered with. i t : ■. ( I ; J: I k 1 , ;} i I 1 I I I