CAUiiUS OF IXTERSTITIAL NEFJIIUTIS. 911 1. Tension.—It has been shown before how this is induced by any obstruc- tion to tlie fi'ee entrance of urine into the bladder. Every practical Surgeon is acquainted with the fact that tension is one of the most powerful irritants to which the living tissues can be exposed. In the liver, AVickham hegg and others have shown that ligature of the bile-duct causes interstitial hepatitis. In the kidney, no recorded case is to bo found of suppuration occurring as the result of simple tension ; but in all cases in which evidence ot tension exists, that is to say, dilated ureter or pelvis of the kidney, or some source of sudden obstruction as a more or less impacted calculus, subacute interstitial inflammation will be found. It seems almost as if the new cell-growth were a conservative change intended to strengthen the tubules to resist the increased pressure. However this may be, a kidney in this condition is in a state in which a little further irritation from any cause may hurry it on to fatal and acute inflammation. '2. Reflex Irritation of the Kidney.—Mechanical injuries to the neck of the bladder or posterior part of the urethra, and probably diseases of these parts in which constantly recurring irritation is present, re-act upon the kidney through the influence of the nervous system. It is needless here to attempt any ex- planation of the exact manner in which this takes place, as it would be merely a matter of speculation ; but a few facts may be given as proof of the assertion. It is well known that several cases are on record, in which death has occurred from suppression of urine following the simple introduction of a catheter, the 2^ost mortem examination showing a condition of intense conges- tion of the kidney. Again, patients with stone in the bladder occasionally die from acute inflammation of the kidney, often accompanied by supj)uration, after the operation of lithotrity. Cases of this kind have occurred in which the cystitis was not increased by the operation, in which the decomposition of urine remained unchanged, and no altered circumstance existed, except the mechanical injury of the passage of the instrument, to account for the sudden supervention of acute nephritis. In these cases signs of chronic disease, which has been rendered acute by the additional irritation, are always present. Lastly, a few cases have been observed at University College Hospital after operations for stricture, with the view of ascertaining if any change could be found in the urine as the direct result of the operation. In three cases of Holt’s dilatation, the urine was found to be free fr-om blood, or to contain no more than could be accounted for by the operation, during the first hour or hour and a half after the operation, aud then to become gradually more and more bloody for another hour or hour and a half, and after that to become gradually fr-ee fi’om blood. In one case there was almost total suppression for the first hour and a half, followed by very bloody urine. In one case of internal urethrotomy, during the first hour the urine flowed away in great quantities, and was almost free from blood. For the next six hours it was passed in moderate quantity, and was veiy darkly tinged with blood. In all four cases, there was some reason to believe that the blood came from the kidney. It occurred after the hmmor- rhage from the wound would have ceased ; it was uniformly mixed with the 1 urine, and free from clots. These cases are of course insufiicient in number to ' draw any conclusions from them ; but, as far as they go, they tend to show I that, in all cases of operation on the urethra, there is a miniature representa- ! tion of that intense congestion of the kidney which is found in cases of death from suppression of urine after simple catheterism. Possibly in some cases