990 URINARY CALCULUS AND LJTJIOTRITY "eiiiiis, these g-rave difficulties have been successively overcome. But now tliat they have been surraomitcd, tlie mere jiractice (jf litliotrity is extremely simple, and the operation is easy of execution. For the safe and proper perl'onuance tlien of the operation, the Surgeon must not only be acquainted with the general principles on which it is under- taken, but he must be thorougidy conversant with the more minute details in tlic construction and the mani])ulation of tlie instruments employed, as well as with the state of every part of the urinary organs. It is impossible for any Surgeon who wishes to practise litliotrity successfully, to devote too much time and attention to points of detail, which may often at first appear trivial. Instkuments.^—The instruments required for lithotrity are the following:— An Ordinary sound with a short beak is required to examine the condition of the bladder. The steel sound should be hollow, so that the bladder may, if necessary, be injected through it after or during sounding, ivithout the neces- Fig. 872.—Litliometer Sound for measuring Stone. It is hollow, so that the bladder can he einxitieU and injected through it. sity of changing the instrument (Fig. 872). This will be found of much service in the later stages of the operation for detecting small fragments. A h'ciss sijringe, with rings, having a large piston rod so that it may work easily, and admitting of adaptation to the hollow sound, sliould be at hand. The Surgeon should be provided also with silver caUieiers of three different kinds : one with large lateral eyes, another with a large eye in the convexity. Fig. 873.—Weiss’s old Thumh-screw Lithotrite for breaking the Stone. and a third with a large eye in the concavity near the point (Figs. 88G, 887, 888) ; all having an elastic gum bougie fitted to the interior, instead of a stylet, to clear out the fragments (Fig. 889). These also should fit to the syringe. The instrument for breaking the stone is called a lithotrite. This instrument has undergone various modifications and improvements at the hands of Mechanicians and Surgeons. To Weiss in this country, and to Charriere in France, we are especially indebted for having brought it to its present state of perfection. In the earlier days of lithotrity the thumb-screw lithotrite was generally used. Sir W. Fergusson invented a