103 VARIETIES. coininonlY happens that a fusiform aneurism remains quiescent, being a source of discomfort, but not of death, until the sacculated form of the disease springs fi’om its side ; and then this, becoming the more formidable att’ectioii, may destroy life in some of the ways peculiar to it. 2. Sacculated Aneurism.—By the sacculated aneurism is meant a tumour springing from the side of an arteiy or ot a tubular aneurism, with the interior of which it communicates by a narrow aperture, called the mouth of the sac (Fig. 442). It is generally divided into the True and False varieties. True Sacculated Aneurism.—By this is meant a partial dilatation of all Fiy. 442.—Sacculated Aneurism of Ascending roiuid tlie opening is irregular from Aorta. Death by Pressure. patches of atheroma and masses of flbrine. the coats of the vessel. Its existence has been denied ; thus Scarpa doubts the occun-ence of such a disease, and Bizot seems disposed to coincide with him. With these eminent pathologists, however, I cannot agree : and though I am willing to admit that many of the so-called “ true ” aneurisms are not so in reality, yet I cannot doubt, from repeated observation, that Hodgson is right in saying that in their early stages sacculated aneurisms are not uufre- quently of the true kind. Thus, we occasionally find, as Peacock has pointed out, small digital pouches springing from the walls of some of the larger arteiies, through the whole of which the external, middle, and internal coats can be demonstrated by maceration to exist ; and in those aneurisms which are foiTned by the dilatation of a comparatively large portion of the arterial wall, it not unfrcfiuently happens that the tumour remains of the true kind for some time, as I have ascertained by careful dissection. But after an aneurism has attained a certain size, its coats become so fused together, and so closely incorporated with the neighbouring tissues, that their precise struc- ture cannot be made out. Indeed, for a sacculated aneurism to be of the hue kind, I believe that two conditions arc necessary:—1, that the tumour itself be small ; and 2, that the mouth of the sac be of tolerably large dimensions.