524 DEFORMITIES. foot may ])0 extended in nearly a straight line with the leg, and the patient walks on his toes, which are placed at a right angle to the foot (Figs. G40). In this deformity there is no lateral displacement. According to Tamplin, it is never congenital. It most commonly arises from disturbance of the nervous system during teething. In adults, as well as in children, it may come on from some disease, such as an abscess in the calf of the leg, by which the gastrocnemius muscle is crippled, shortened, ^ind contracted. Jt is the most important, and at the same time the simplest in itself, of all the forms of club-foot ; it commonly complicates T. varus. The Treatment consists in dividing the tendo Achillis., and Inlnging the heel well down. The tendo Achillis is best divided about an inch above its insertion into the os calcis. The limb should be placed on its outer side. The assistant then relaxes the tendon slightly while the Surgeon slides a tenotome beneath it from the inner side ; the assistant then makes the tendon tense, and the Surgeon proceeds to divide it, using the knife as a lever, the fulcrum being the edge of the malleolus. The Surgeon must keep the fingers of his left hand on the tendon to feel that the knife does not approach the skin too closely. As the section proceeds, he will hear the tendon creaking as its fibres are succes- sively cut through. The division may be safely made Fig. 641.—Apparatus for use after division of tendo Acliillis for paralytic equiuus. from the cutaneous surface if it be preferred. The tendon must be made tense, || and the point of the tenotome entered through the skin close to its anterior surface ; the foot is then fully extended, while the Surgeon pinches up the || skin, and passes the tenotome between it and the tendon. He then turns the edge of the Imife to the tendon, while the assistant forcibly flexes the ankle. No sawing or free cutting is required if the knife have been entered sufficiently far forwards. With ordinary care, there is no risk of wounding the posterior tibial artery. In cases in which the deformity is due to paralysis of the tibialis anticusand extensors of the toes, a condition very frequently met with as the result of infantile paralysis, the apparatus represented in Fig. G4l fitted to a boot, will be found of great use in preventing the return of the contraction after division of the tendon. Talipes Calcaneus is a rare variety of club-foot. In it the heel is