TUMO URS—IIYDA TIDS—SARCOMATA. 311 ( two similar tumoui’s have been recorded, one by Breschet and one by 1 Tnivei-s. The chief symptom is a slow and almost painless enlargement of the « affecteil bone, forming a smooth, round or oval gi’owth. The skin covering 1 it is of normal colour. When a certain size has been attained, so that t the shell of bone is expanded into a very thin lamella, and before it is I perforated, pressure on the tumour occasions a peculiar crackling or rustling noise, like that produced by pressing together a broken egg-shell, or the . crackling of tin-foil. Under this, the elasticity or even semi-fluctuation of ; the tumour may be felt. This fluctuation is particularly marked after a ; time, when the osseous envelope has become still more expanded, or is partially or wholly absorbed. When the shell of bone becomes very thin, i spontaneous fracture may take place. Cysts of the jaws will be more fully described with the diseases of those ; pai'ts. Treatment.—When the tumour is very large, removal of the affected bone I may be necessary, but if it be of moderate size, so as not to have materially I aflected the integrity of the bone, it may suffice to remove one side of the wall of the cyst by the trephine or by excision, and then the cavity may be : allowed to granulate, and its walls to contract. This plan has proved especially I successful in some of the cystic tumours of the lower jaw ; and I have practised it with success in a small cyst forming in the outer condyle of the humerus. Hydatids.—Cavities are occasionally, but very rarely, found in bones, in which large numbers of hydatids are lodged ; according to Stanley, both the echinococcus and the cysticercus cellulosm have been found in this tissue, but most frequently the fomer. In these cases a cyst forms in the bone, which becomes thin and expanded, resembling the ordinary fluid cystic tumour, but which, on examination, is found to contain the parasite. The Treatment, as Stanley observes, must depend on the situation and extent of the disease ; if it be a long bone that is affected, and it be much expanded, recom’se must be had to amputation ; if it be a flat bone, the cyst-wall must be scooped out, and the ca\*ity dressed from the bottom with stimulating applications, so that it may fill with healthy granulations. Sarcomata of Bone—Primary Malignant Tumours of Bone.—It is now generally recognized that true cancer never originates in bone, and that the tumours fonnerly classed as primary encephaloid or scirrhous cancer of bone, osteo-cancer, ostco-cephaloma, &c., all belong to the class of sai’comata. The fact that there has not been a single well-authenticated case of primary cancer of bone recorded since the distinction between carcinoma and sarcoma Avas clearly established, is strong e\ndence in favour of the vicAV that aU true cancer commences in connection with pre-existing epithelium. It is only in such bones as the superior maxilla, and those in connection Avith the mucous membrane lining the cavities of the face, that true cancer is commonly met with ; and here the osseous tissue is involved only by extension of the groAAfth, the primary seat of the disease being the mucous membrane. The subject of sarcoma of bone has been very thoroughly investigated by H. Gross of Philadelphia and by H. T. Butlin of Ijondon, and much light has been thrown by them upon tiic clinical and pathological features of this