EXCISION OF TONGUE BY SUBMENTAL OPERATION. 645 Slight enlargement of the glands under tlie jaw should not be any bar to the operation, provided the disease be limited, and the constitution good. II not too much enlarged, tlie glands may ])C excised at the same time "with the disease of the tongue ; or if they be so slightly enlarged as to be scaicely recognizable, they may be left, when they will perhaps subside without the necessity of operation, as their enlargement may possibly be dependent upon simple irritation ; should they continue indurated, they may readily be remo\ed at a subsequent period. Submental Operation for Excision of Tongue.—Ilegnoli of Pisa pub- lished, in 1838, a description of a method by which the whole tongue could be successfully removed. The plan that he proposed was as follows. An incision of a semilunar shape was made along the line of the lower jaw, beginning near one angle and terminating close to the other. A perpendicular incision was 4 carried ft’om the centre of this line immediately under the chin to the hyoid bone Fig. 734.—Lines of Incision in Regnoli’s Oiieration. Fig. 735.—Tongue drawn out between Jaw and Hyoid Bone. t (Fig. 734). In making this semilunar incision, care must be taken not to wound ; the facial artery on either side. The trunk of the vessel should be protected by t the finger of an assistant as it curves round the lower jaw, and the incision j. should be confined within the space between the two facials. The triangular flaps of skin formed in the manner indicated are dissected back, and the ^ muscles and mylo-hyoid space are now exposed. These must be successively divided; the anterior.bellies of the digastrics are cut across, the mylo-hyoid I muscle divided transversely at its anterior part; and the attachments of the I genio-hyoidei and genio-hyo-glossi are then to be detached from the lower jaw I by a few touches of the scalpel, and by separating Avith the fingers the mucous B membrane of the floor of the mouth. An aperture is then made into this by j pushing the scalpel through it, and its reflexion from the inside of the lower j jaw is divided as far back a.s the outer angles of the external incision. The submaxillary glands arc pushed aside, and the tip of the tongue being seized with a strong hook or vulsellum-forceps, the organ is drawn out to its full extent on to the anterior part of the neck, between the jaw and the hyoid bone (Fig. 735), '» when the Avhole of it may be removed close to its attachments to the latter bone by means of the knife or the ecraseur. The latter instrument is to bo