770 HERNIA. vaginalis and from tlic cord. If the sac can be completely emptied, it is next drawn down and ligatured Avitli carbolized silk or catgut close to the rin«-. The stnmp is then pushed into the inguinal canal and the pillars of the external ring, which must be cleanly exposed, are then brought together with strong silver Avire, leaving only just enough room for the ^kssage of tlie coid. Should there be adherent omentum, the sac must be opened and the mass ligatured, in separate pieces if large, and cut off. In cases of congenital hernia the same operation may be performed, but the sac must be cut across, and the loAA^er part closed Avith sutures, so as to leave a tunica vaginalis. 'I'he Avhole operation should be performed Avith the strictest antiseptic precautions, as the safety of the patient depends in great measure upon this. A similar operation is practicable in other forms of hernia. In umbilical herniae the ring may be sutured in the same AA^ay as in an inguinal, but in a I femoral this is impossible, and removal of the sac Avith ligature of its neck is || all that can be done. I The results of this operation, so far as the life is concerned, are very good ; I but in a considerable number of cases the patient has not been able to dispense I Avith the use of a truss. In many of these, hoAvever, the hernia Avhich could I not be retained in the abdomen before the operation was easily kept up after I it. There is no doubt that such an operation cannot be devoid of a certain I degree of danger. It should therefore not be undertaken in any case in Avhicli I the hernia can be easily controlled by a truss. When this is not the case I it probably gives the patient as good chance of relief, or possibly of cure, as I any other method. In irreducible hernim it is the only aA'ailable mode II of operating should interference be considered advisable. In cases of strangu- E lated hernia, Avheu operative interference becomes necessary, many surgeons Iff advise that the operation should always be completed by remoAung the sac and It closing the ring, unlesg some special circumstance, such as the exhausted state It of the patient or his great age renders it inadvisable. It The statistical results published by Banks are the most extensive at present Ip before the profession. He has operated on the following hernim, uncomplicated It* by strangulation : 1 ventral, 1 umbilical, 2 inguinal Avith imdescended testicle. I. 11 inguinal, and G femoral. Only one of these died, apparently from causes t unconnected with the operation. He also comj)leted the operation for strangu- I lated hernia by closing the ring in G inguinal and 3 femoral herniee, onlv r one of which terminated fatally. All the survivors were either cured ei' r materially benefited by the operation. I IKBEDXTCIBLE HEKNIA. pi Irreducible Herxidd are usually of old date, and of large size. They generally contain a considerable quantity of thickened omentum, as Avell as intestine and mesentery. In many instances, a ruptm-e of this kind is partly ■ reducible, the gveater portion remaining unreduced. It is usually the gih ■ ■ which slips up, and the omentum that cannot be returned. Causes of Irreducibility.—The irreducibility of a rupture may be dw- ■! pendent on either its slia2Je, on the existence of adhesions, or on its a'ci'A B- naiufre. If the sac become the seat of an hour-glass contraction, or its ■ become elongated and narroAved, the hernial contents may continue ik'd By manently protruding. So also, the expanded condition of the loAA'or pad B~