729 SGIRPJIOUS CANCER. i readily movable, may be situated in one lobe, and is attached perhaps to the I rest of the j^land by a distinct pedicle. As it increases in size, it becomes hard, knobbed, and irregnlar, perhaps presenting a finely granular feel, and becoming fixed to the gland and subjacent parts. When the disease begins as ■ scirrhous infiltration of the breast, the mass is from the first hard, nigged, irregnlar, nodulated, and heavy ; often somewhat square in shape, and early accompanied by adhesions to the skin and the subjacent parts. In other cases, the development of the scirrhous mass is accompanied by a correspond- ing atrophy of the mammaiy gland, which becomes shrivelled and disappears entirely. In some instances, rather large cysts may form in connection with the scinlions mass. In a woman, whose breast I once removed for what was supposed to be cystic sarcoma, but which proved after the operation to be a scirrhous tumour, the mass contained several cysts as large as cherries, filled ivith dark or greenish fluid, and projecting from its surface ; and in a lady under my care for sciiThns of the breast, a tmnour as large as a pigeon’s egg, i|, containing sanguinolent fluid, formed on the surface of the tumour. As the swelling increases in size, it has a tendency to be more fixed to the B subjacent parts, becoming adlierent to the pectoral muscles and incorporated with the areolar tissue at the border of the axilla. The tumour also begins to form a distinct external projection, and becomes more irregular in shape ; it is j r the seat of severe pain, more particularly at night; and is in some cases covered by a plexus of blue and dilated veins. The ordinary symptoms of cancerous cachexy now appear, and the disease then makes still more rapid 8 progress. The tumour may in some cases remain for a great length of time without implicating the Skin; but most commonly, after it has existed for a few months, this tissue becomes more or less involved. Instead of being loose and movable over the surface of the cancer, it will be found, on being pinched up )etween the fingers, to dimple at one part, where it may be felt to be attached py a kind of cord-like process to the tumour beneath it. After a time, that oortion of the skin which first became fixed in this way acquires a reddish or •ourplish colour, and is covered with thin scaly epidermic desquamations, and oecomes permeated by a number of small ramifying vessels. A crack or fissure ■eventually foims in this ; a small exudation of serous fluid takes place, vhich dries into a scab ; under this, ulceration sets in, which speedily assumes he ordinary characters of a scinhous ulcer, having hard, elevated, and everted 3dges, a gre}ish-green or foul surface, and discharging a quantity of very fetid 'I ms. In some cases ulceration may take place at several points, and thus the .vhole surface of the breast becomes converted into one immense chasm, which nay extend even up into the axilla. The skin, when affected, often assumes a red, glazed, hard, and brawny haracter, being shining, and as if greasy upon the surface, having its pores unlarged, and enveloping the side of the chest in a kind of stiff solid casing, uttended usually by much pain, considerable oedema of the aim, and an aggravated form of constitutional cachexy : ulceration at last takes place in his hardened mass, and then speedily destroys the patient. In other cases, he cancerous development seems to expend its energy chiefly upon the mtaneous structures. The tumour of the gland is small, atrophic, and mplicates the nipple. The cancerous infiltration rapidly spreads into ho siiiTounding integument, which becomes early coutaminated, assuming