EXCISION OF TONGUE AFTER DIVISION OF JAW. 647 and a portioii removed througli tlic gap in tlie cheek. After the operation is concluded, this is closed by sutures. Excision of Tongxxe after Division of the Lower Jaw. Sedillot of Scrasburg- described, in ISob, a method of removing the whole of the tongue, which he stated that he had practised for some years with success. Ihe operation consists in making a vertical section through the lower lip, sawing through the inferior maxilla at its symphysis, separating the bone on each side, drawing the tongue forward and removing it. In performing this opera- tion, its inventor recommends that the section of tlie lower lip should be made carefully through the median line, and carried across the chin as far down as the hyoid bone. The lower jaw is then sawn tlu’ough at its symphysis. In order to fix the bone more accurately after the operation, he recommends that, instead of making one vertical incision, two oblique cuts should be practised with the saw in tliis shape >>, so as to form a triangle, the point of which corresponds to the middle of the body of the bone, so that the two opposite sides may be locked together after the removal of the tongue. Before ; Siiwing the bone it may be drilled 011 each side half an inch from the edge of the intended incision through it. After having divided the lower jaw, the 1 muscles connecting it to the tongue I should be cut across and the mucous 3 membrane forming the floor of the 1 mouth detached from the bone, the two ) sides of which are drawn asunder; and the tongue then removed from the j hyoid bone by a stroke of the knife, or ! gradually snipped through with scissors. The lingual arteries bleed fr’eely, land must be at once secured. Fiddes of .lamaica recommends that the I artery be divided and tied, flrst on one side and then on the other, so 4 as to avoid dangerous hsemon-hage. The opposite sides of the jaxv-bone : are then brought together, and held in position by wire twisted round the t teeth, or passed through a hole drilled on each side before the division of the bone. If Sedillot’s angular cut be adopted, the bone may be kept m situ much more easily than if the vertical incision to which he first of all had r recourse, and which is commonly adopted in this country, be ])ractised. The i incision in the lower lip must be united in the usual way by hare-lip pins or sutures. This operation was first done in this country by Syme and Nunneley, and has of late years been very extensively practised by many Surgeons. By it the whole tongue can be freely exposed and cut out from its deepest attach- ments. If it be prefeiTed, the ccraseur may be applied when the tongue has 'been folly exposed (Fig. 730). Haemorrhage during Excision of the Tongue is the only serious danger Fig. 730.—Remov.al of Tongue by Division of Lower Jaw and Ecraseur.