CAUSES OF ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 831 CHAPTEK LXIII. —«— INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. I -I I 't; . I .■ 1 t ■ i' ■'T; Intestinal Obstructions may be of two distinct kinds, Acute and Chronic. These must not be confounded with one another, as they are usually dependent not only upon very different conditions, but require different lines of treatment for their relief. Acute Intestinal Obstruction may arise from the folloAving pathological conditions : 1. Internal strangulation.—This may arise from a portion of gut slipping through an aperture in the mesentery or omentum forming the so-called internal hernia. Or a portion of the intestine may be constricted by becoming entangled round a band passing from one part of the abdominal cavity to another. These bands may be entirely of new formation resulting from local peritonitis with the formation of adhesions which have become gradually stretched ; whilst in other cases the strangulating band is composed of the vermiform ap- pendix, or ©f a diverticulum from the ileum, the free end of which has become attached to some part of the abdominal wall. 2. A portion of gut may become twisted on itself, thus forming a volvulus, owing to the meso-colon or the mesentery being unusually long and allowing a half twist to take place, in conse- quence of which complete obstruc- tion takes place. This occurs most commonly, in fact almost exclusively, [, in the sigmoid flexure and the descending colon. 3. In other li instances the symptoms of acute obstruction may arise in consequence of a 1 stricture gradually closing and then at last becoming suddenly occluded. '4. Foreign bodies obstructing the small intestine may cause the signs of acute j obstruction. Amongst the most common of these are large gall-stones which have found their way into the intestine by ulceration from the gall-bladder. |- r>. Severe and even fatal intestinal obstruction may occur as the result of in- flammatory affections of the intestines without the existence of any mechanical lesion. It was formerly supposed that the same condition might arise simply from spasmodic contraction, but this is not supported by any sutticient evidence. 6. Acute obstruction frequently arises from invagination or intussusception, apart of the intestine slipping into that below and being constricted by it; but as this affection may assume either an acute or chronic form, and presents Fig. 802.—Intestinal Obstruction from Internal Hernia.