ANEUIUSU. 104 l^rter says tliat lie lias never met with a true aneurism larger than a small orang-e ; and, certainly none of those that 1 have seen, provided they were of the sacculated kind, have exceeded this size. In true sacculated aneurisms, also, it is necessary that the mouth of the sac, or tliat portion of it which communicates with the interior of the artery, should be of good size, and not bear too great a disproportion to the wall of the tumour. I cannot conceive a large sac with a small mouth to he a true aneurism. But in all cases of true aneurism, however small they may he, the size of the sac greatly exceeds that of its mouth. It is, therefore, clear that there must have been not only expansion, hut a degree of hypertrophy and overgrowth of the wall of the vessel, just as in the tubular aneurism, otherwise the sac w'ould be thinned in the exact proportion of its expansion. This overgrowth takes place chiefly fi'om the outer coat, and, in a less degree, from the inner and not at all from the middle. When the sac is very small the expanded middle coat can be traced throughout it; when somewhat larger, patches of the middle coat can be recognized with wide gaps between them; but when it reaches any con- siderable size the greater part is composed of dense fibroid tissue in which none of the proper structure of the middle coat, and in most cases of the inner also can be demonstrated. False Sacculated Aneurism is that variety of the disease in which the internal, or the internal and middle, coats have been ruptured, and are conse- quently deficient. This is by far the most frequent form of sacculated aneurism, and is that which is met with of so great a size. In by far the majority of cases, the internal coat, and the innermost layers of the middle coat, have been destroyed by atheromatous degeneration, leaving an erosion or depression in the interior of the artery, with weaknesss of the corresponding portion of its wall, which becomes expanded by the outward pressure of the blood. In these cases the sac is formed ’principally by the outer coat, in which some remains of the middle may still be recognized. That the sac is formed by inflammatory new growth in the external coat and not merely by expansion, is evident by its being thicker than the corresponding coat of a healthy artery. The thickness of the sac is increased when it reaches any considerable size also by adhesion of neighbouring parts to it, which become fused into its structure as a consequence of the chronic inflammatory process set up round the aneurism from the pressure it exerts on the surrounding structures. The formation of an aneurism by the hernial protrusion of the internal and middle coats through an ulcerated aperture in the external coat has been described; but, though there is a preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, that is supposed to illustrate this fact, I doubt the existence of such a form of the disease, and after careful examination think that the preparation in question represents rather an artificial dissection than a true rupture of this dense and resisting structure. A false aneurism may always be readily distinguished from a true one, by the greater magnitude that it attains, by the size of the sac being out of all proportion to that of its mouth, and, on a section of this being made, by the middle coat being seen to terminate abruptly in a thick and dense ring, imme- diately around the mouth and neck of the sac. A false aneurism may either be so from the very first, the internal and middle coats having been destroyed by softening and erosion, and the external expanded and hypertrophied into a sac : or it may originally have been a true aneurism, and have been converted