445 SYMPTOMS OF 11 IP-JOINT DISEASE. although occasionally suppuration may occur early with severe constitutional disturbance and great pain. In the acetabular and femoral varieties, abscess usually forms sooner or later, being the direct consequence of the presence of diseased bone. AYhen the disease commences in the femur, suppuration taking- place early with severe constitutional disturbance, is usually associated with more or less extensive necrosis of the head of the bone. In the acetabular form, abscess is often one of the earliest signs of serious mischief, sometimes preceding the other signs of hip-disease. The abscess in disease of the hip usually appears first behind the joint, the pus having escaped from the capsule by perforating the posterior part which is the thinnest. It then, in most cases comes gradually forwards beneath the glutens minimus and medius. Having reached the anterior border of the glutei, it passes beneath the tensor vaginas femoris, and the upper part of the sartorius, forming a swelling iu the upper part of the thigh below the anterior superior iliac spine. From this point it often burrows downwards, and opens behind the thick band of fascia into which the tensor vaginas femoris is inserted, in the lower part of the upper third of the thigh. Some- times the abscess appears in front of the joint, though this is rare, owing to the thickness of the capsule in this situation. "iVlien the acetabulum is perforated, the abscess forms between the obturator interims and the bone, the muscle being at last extensively destroyed. The pus is confined beneath the jielvic fascia, which becomes greatly thickened, and shuts off the abscess from the general cavity of the pelvis. As the pus increases in quantity, it burrows upwards, and perforates the attachment of the pelvic fascia at the brim of the pelvis, coming to the surface above or under Poupart’s ligament. It very rarely escapes by the small sciatic notch along the course of the tendon of the obturator interims, and it never reaches the great sciatic notch, being shut off by the thickened pelvic fascia. "When there is extensive necrosis of the pelvic bones, the abscess may find its way into the true pelvis, and point beside the rectum ; but this is rare in hip-disease. Still more rarely the pus may escape from the front of the joint and get into the psoas muscle, forming a psoas abscess. When this occurs, it is probably due to the existence of a communi- cation between the synovial membrane of the joint and the bursa beneath the psoas in front of the articulation. 5. When the abscesses have burst or been opened. Sinuses are left behind, an attentive examination of the position and direction of which is of great im- portance in forming an opinion as to the seat of the osseous disease. There are three situations in which sinuses are met with, which vary according to their point of origin from the abscess, and the position of the diseased bone. 1. When the sinus opens two or three inches below and a little in front of the gi-eat trochanter, about the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle, the disease is almost invariably femoral or arthritic. 2. When the sinus is in the gluteal region, it may indicate/mom/ or arthritic, but not iiii frequently is de- pendent on pelvic disease ; the acetabulum, or a portion of the dorsum ilii, lieing the part involved. 3. The sinus may open in the pubic region, either above or below Poupart’s ligament: in this situation it is almost certainly diagnostic of disease of the pelvic bones. AVhen it appears above the ligament it probably leads to intrapelvic abscess : on the other hand, when it opens below Poupart’s ligament, there is generally disease of the ramus of the pubes or ischium.