472 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. knee will be raised above that of the sound limb, and the angle formed between the thigh and trunk will be at once very perceptible. But if the knee be depressed so as to be brought to the same level as that of the sound limb, then the anterior superior spine of the ilium is rotated forwards, and the lumbar spine arched forwards to an extent proportionate to the angle of deformity. This angular ankylosis of the hip-joint requires to be coiTected, and the limb to be brought into a straight position, so that, even if it be shortened, the patient may, by means of a high-heeled boot, rest it upon the ground, and use it as a means of support and of lu'ogression. This may usually be effected without much difficulty, when the ankylosis is fibrous, by forcible extension under chloroform, the limb being thus often brought straight at once without any material difficulty. But in other cases this cannot be done by simple extension, resistance being offered by the muscles on the anterior and upper part of the thigh. In such circumstances, those that offer most resistance must be divided subcutaneously ; and these ’will usually be found to be the rectus, tensor vaginm femoris, pectineus, and gracilis. After the limb has, in this way, been straightened, and maintained for some time in the straight position by means of the long splint or weight apparatus or Thomas’s splint, means may be adopted by passive motion and frictions to restore the mobility of the joint. Operation for Osseous Angular Ankylosis.—When osseous ankylosis of the hip has occurred in the flexed position, the case necessarily becomes much more serious ; and the rectification of the position of the limb, and the restoration of its mobility, can be effected only by surgical operation. The operation by which these objects are accomplished consists in the division of the Upper Part of the Femur ; through its neck, if any remains of that structure still exist, or, at all events, above the trochanter minor. The first operation of the kind was performed by Rhea Barton, in 1826. It was done in the case of a sailor, 21 years of age, who, in consequence of an injury, had an osseous ankylosis of the hip in a nearly rectangular j)osition. Barton, according to Gross, made a crucial incision over and down to. the great trochanter. The muscles were detached and turned aside, and the bone sawn through, the great trochanter and part of the neck of the femur being divided transversely. Whether a simple section of the bone was made, or, in conformity with Barton’s usual practice in ankylosis, a v-shaped piece of bone was removed, I know not ; for on this point American authorities differ. But the limb was brought into a straight position, and put up in a fracture- apparatus for twenty days. At the end of this time, passive motion was commenced, and at the end of four months the patient had a movable false joint, so that he could rotate the limb, abduct it for twenty inches, and cany it backwards and forwards to a still gi-eater extent. The case was therefore eminently successful. The operation appears, however, to have attracted but little notice, and to have been but rarely followed by others. It is true that Barton himself operated a second time ; and that Rodgers of New \ork, in 1830, did so successfully on a man 47 yeais old. The example of these Ameri- can Surgeons was followed in Europe, by Textor in 1841, and by Maison- neuve in 1847, on a girl of 18, successfully. Ross (U. S. A.) operated in 18.57, on a w'oman of 23. In the two latter cases no false joint was made ; but the bone, after being straightened, united again by callus. In March, 1860, I performed a similar operation at University College Hospital, on a girl 4 i i 4