DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. I lS2 oiilargemeiit of the cord, with its indurated and knobbed condition, are- important signs ; especially if the disease occur in young men. In a more advanced condition, the softening of the swelling at parts with a tuberous, condition of the rest, and the occurrence of fungus with speedy constitutional cachexy, will point to the malignant nature of the tumour. In cases of mucli doubt and difficulty an exploratory puncture may be made, when the contents of the groove in the needle or of the fine cannula will probably determine the character of the growth. In more than one instance, in which there was much obscurity, I have seen the true nature of the disease cleared up- in this way. SPERMATORRHCBA AND IMPOTENCE. Yarious forms of debility, of loss of power, or of irregularity of action in the generative organs of the male, are confounded together under the terms Spermatorrhoea and Impotence. These conditions require a more careful consideration on the part of the educated Surgeon than they have hitherto received, as their existence is a source of the deepest mental depression and distress to the sufferer. They are certainly one cause of conjugal unhappiness,, leading perhaps to infidelity on the part of the wife, and occasionally even to- suicide of the husband. These affections, which are of extreme frequency amongst all classes of the community, having scarcely as yet received that attention on the part of the profession generally that their importance deserves, the unfortunate sufferers from them are too often driven into the hands of those pestilent quacks who flourish in the metropolis, and infest almost every town in the country, by whom they are not unfrequently ruined in health as- well as in purse. The Sexual Melancholia that accompanies these conditions, is one of their more striking characteristics. The patient is languid in manner, depressed in spirits, his countenance is pale and haggard, eye dull, expression listless, and devoid of all energy. He takes no interest in the ordinary affairs of fife, his whole thoughts are concentrated on his own condition, and he feels himself degraded as being unfit for that duty which is alike the first and the lowest of man. This state of mind is commonly the result of some local irritation or disease, re-acting on a morbidly sensitive nervous system; and on examination, the Surgeon will commonly find some local condition that has been the start- ing point of the mental malady. Balanitis, phimosis, or varicocele in the male are the common occasioning causes. But the most frequent direct exciting- cause is undoubtedly that pernicious and disgusting habit alike destructive of bodily vigour and of mental power, which, heedlessly contracted in youth, lays the foundation for an effete and impotent manhood, and for premature senility in the one sex, and entails hysteria, in its most aggravated and intractable fonns, in the other. We may recognize at least three distinct varieties of generative debility in the male, of whom I alone speak, which may in some cases amount to actual impotence : 1, True Spermatorrhoea, or Seminal Flux ; 2, Spasmodic Sjx!!- matoiThcea, or Spermaspasmos ; and, 3, that arising from Want of Seminal Secretion, or Asperma. 1. True Spermatorrhoea, or Sejiinal Flux, is a rare disease and is met with chiefly in young men, usually from the ages of eighteen to tliirt}. It is commonly the consequence of that hideous sin, engendered b} ^ ice, and