LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 219 and a steel director, so as not to "woimd the branches of the acroinio-thoracic artery and vein. The cephalic vein lies at the outer angle of the wound, and is usually not seen, 'When the pectoralis minor is found, it must be drawn downwards with a copper spatula. In so doing, the costo-coracoid membrane beneath which the artery lies is brought fully into view. This membrane is seldom sufficiently distinct to be recognized as a definite structure, and it can readily be torn through with a pair of forceps and the steel director. It is Fi^'. 4S1.—Diagram of Ligature of the First Part of the Kight Axillary Ai-terj*. p.m.a. Pectoralis major, the fibres separated in the inner half of the wound ami divided in the outer ; pectoralis minor; a.t. Acnimio-thoracic artery and vein; a.v. axillarj' vein; «. axillary artery; n. brachial plexus. Fig. 4S2.—Diagram fof Ligature of the Axiilaiy Aiiery in its lower third, c.h. coraco-brachialis; m.n. median nerve ; u.n. ulnar nerve ; i.c.n. internal cutaneous nerve ; v. vein; a. artery. perforated by the acromio-thoracic artery and vein, and the external anterior thoracic nerve. These will be seen as the areolar tissue is torn through, and must be drawn inwards with a blunt hook. In the living body the vein next comes into view, and must be drarni inwards, when the artery -will be seen to its outer side. The needle must be passed from the vein and as near the clavicle as possible, well above the origin of the acromio-thoracic. If it is possible to tie only in close proximity to this branch, it would be safer to apply a ligature to it also. In practising the operation on the dead body, the vein often is not seen, and it is customary to find the artery by following the acromio-thoracic to its origin. There is little risk of including a cord of the brachial plexus, as the iieiwes lie well to the coracoid side, separated by a slight interval Irom the artery. It is frequently found in the dead body that the ligature has been applied above the lower border of the first rib, the end of the subclavian being actually the vessel tied. This operation is a very difficult one, on account of the depth of the wound as well as from the embarrassment occasioned by the numerous venous and arterial branches which ramify across the space in which the vessel lies, and ligature of the third ]iart of the sub- clavian is to be prefeiTed to it whenever it is practicable. If it is necessary to tie the axillary, as in the case of a punctured wound, the operation recommended by Guthrie is probably safer and simpler than that just described. It consists in making an incision from the centre of the clavicle directly downwards, in the course of the vessels, to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this way the skin, superficial fiiscia, and greater pectoral muscle, must be successiv’ely divided. The lesser pectoral will then be exposed ; and the artery may be ligatured above or below this, without further division of muscular substance, or if it be thought desirable to doligatc ft under this, the muscle must be cautiously cut through. 'When this is done, a very distinct and finn fascia will come into view ; this must be picked up