2i8 SPECIAL ANEUlilSMS. probability, fiuci the part in such a condition as would prevent the possibility of his completing' the operation he had commenced. After laying open a largo sloughing cavity, extending under the pectoral muscles perhaps as high as the clavicle, and clearing out the broken-down coagula contained in it, in what state would he find the artery ? Certainly, the probability would be strongly against its being in such a condition as to bear a ligature, even if it could be included in one. Its coats, in the immediate vicinity of the sac, could not, in accordance with what we know to be almost universally the case in spontaneous aneurisms of large size or old standing, be expected to be in anything like a sound firm state, and would almost certainly give way under pressure of the noose ; or the vessel might have undergone fusiform dilatation, as is common in this situation, before giving rise to the circumscribed false aneurism, in Avhich case it would be impossible to surround it by a ligature ; or, again, the subscapular or circumflex arteries might arise directly from, and pour their recurrent blood into, the sac or the dilated artery, and, as they would lie in the midst of infiamed and sloughing tissues, no attempt at includ- ing them in a ligature could be successfully made. In such circumstances as these, the danger of the patient would be considerably increased by the irrita- tion and inflammation that would be occasioned by laying open and searching for the bleeding vessel in the sac of an inflamed, suppurating, and sloughing aneurism, and much valuable time would be lost in what must be a fruitless operation ; at the close of which it would, iu all probability, become necessary to have recourse to disarticulation at the shoulder-joint, and thus to remove the whole disease at once. I should, therefore, be disposed to have recourse to disarticulation at the shoulder-joint at once, in all cases of profuse recurrent hmmorrhage, following sloughing of the sac of an axillary anemnsm, which could not be arrested by direct pressure on the bleeding orifice, after the sub- clavian has been tied. There is another form of axillary aneurism that requires immediate amputa- tion at the shoulder-] oint, whether the subclavian artery have previously been ligatured or not; it is the case of diffuse aneurism of the armpit, with threatened or actual gangrene of the limb. Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—Should ligature of the axillary arteiy at any time be required, the vessel may be secured in one of two situations, in the space that intervenes between the lower margin of the cla\flcle above the pectoralis minor, or in the axilla as it lies on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. To expose the artery above the pectoralis minor, the shoulder must be pushed upwards and allowed to fall backwards as far as possible. An incision is then made, slightly curved with its concavity upwards, commencing imme- diately above and internal to the tip of the coracoid process, and terminating immediately below the clavicle, and about one inch from the sterno-clavicular articulation. The skin and fat are divided in the first incision, and the pec- toralis major exposed. The fibres of the muscle are separated in the inner end of the wound, and the finger introduced into the space beneath guiding a probe-pointed bistoury, with which the remainder of the muscle is rapidly divided throughout the whole length of the wound. In doing this, several large branches of the acromio-thoracic artery are divided and must be tied at once. The next rallying point is the upper border of the pectoralis minor. Ibis must be found by tearing through some loose areolar tissue with the forceps i j I '■i i >1 fl 4 ■ J •I I A 6 J • ■ ■ • i; ;■< \j