745 AMPUTATION OF THE BREAST. or purplisli tiugc, becoming hard, stony and nodulated at points; these nodules being round or oval, often very numerous, and varying in size from a pin s head to a pigeon’s egg, studding the whole length and breadth of the cicatrix, imd at last running into true cancerous ulceration. In such circumstances, the only liope of prolonging the patient’s life lies in the speedy excision of the whole of the diseased structures, or their extirpation by caustics, provided there be no deep affection of the glands, nor evidence of internal secondary growths, j But if the axillary glands be much enlarged, either alone or together, with ' recurrent disease in the cicatrix, or if there be any sign of internal cancer, I further operation will be improper. Amputation of the Breast.—The question of amputation of the breast should always be raised and discussed with more than ordinary regard to the feelings of the patient. A Avoman looks upon her breast as alike the emblem ‘ •and the ornament of her womanhood. She shrinlcs from the idea of its being affected by disease. She suffers acutely in mind when it is invaded by tumour ?of any kind: the horrid dread of that disease being cancer eA'er haunts her j thoughts, not so much from the fear of the possibly impending operation, but rrather from the distress of mind, in many cases amounting to a sense of f lmmiliation, at the idea of the mutilation of which she is about to become he 'vdctini. The operation for the removal of a breast, whether affected with cancer or wwith other disease, may be performed in the following Avay. The patient should lie upon a table, with the arm hanging over the side, tied down nr held by an assistant. If the tumom’ be large, and the loss of blood a matter of much consequence, another assistant should compress the subclavian artery on the first rib. The hjemorrhage Avill, however, depend more on the •latiue than on the size of the tumour. In all cancerous tumours, but espe- nally in the encephaloid, it is considerable, and from many enlarged A'essels. In simple tumours, even of very large size, it is often trivial. I have removed i simple tumour of the breast of many pounds Aveight, and had to tie only )ne spouting vessel. Indeed, nothing indicates more conclusively the enor- nous activity of cancerous tumours, and the gveat drain they must exercise ipon the system generally, than the large size and great number of their supplying arteries, compared with those sent to a simple tumour many imes larger than the malignant one. If the veins about the part be much lilated, measures should be taken to arrest the floAv of blood fr’om them, as it nay sometimes be dangerously profuse ; indeed, South relates the case of a latient who died from this cause during the operation. In all cases a sufficient lumber of forcipressure forceps should be at hand, which can be left attached 0 the bleeding A'cssels until more permanent means of aiTesting the luemorrhage van be carried out if necessary. In amjiutations of the breast for cancer, there are four principal and vital Kiints that must be attended to: ]. To remove the Avhole'of the gland; 2. To emovc the nipple; o. To remove the skin Avidely, even Avhen apparently lealthy; 4. To clear out the axilla if there be any glandular enlargement. I’lie operation should ahvays be done Avith antiseptic precautions. The vhole breast, side, and axilla should first be thoroughly Avashed Avith carbolic otion, 1 to 20. The direction of the incision through the integuments is •aried by different Surgeons ; some prefer a transverse, others a perpendicular »ne. I think that no definite plan should be folloAved, but the direction of the