415 CARIES OF SPINE-ANGULAR CURVATURE. ,hc spiual canal. The quantity injected should be from half a drachm to : I drachm and a half. It is best done by means of a screw syringe fitted r vith a fine platinum needle. If the sac be tense, the needle may first be ' ntroduced and a small quantity of the fluid drawn off, but in most cases the Ji' odo-glvcerine solution may be directly injected. The puncture must be care- iI' ally closed with lint and collodion. Should the sac continue to leak at the yj juncture, suppuration and meningitis are very likely to occur. After the ^1 njection a flannel bandage may be applied over some cotton-wool covering tumour, and the child must be kept as far as possible in the recumbent . Hjsition. A complete statistical report of this treatment has not yet been ollected. At the time Morton published his paper in 1876, he knew of 14 i-ases in which the treatment had been tried ; of these, 11 were successful. >ince that time numerous successful cases have been recorded, in many of rhich the sac was so thin that without the operation life could not have been M-oloneed beyond a few weeks or months. In a considerable number of other ases neither good nor harm resulted from the treatment, and in two at least udden or rapid death has occurred after the injection. Still, when we coii- ider the hopelessness of the disease in most cases if left to itself, the amount f success obtained has been such as to justify the treatment in all suitable lases. Antiseptic drainage and removal of the sac have been tried, but the results ave not been such as to encomnge a repetition of the treatment. CARIES OF THE SPINE.—ANGTJIjAR CURVATURE—POTT’S DISEASE. This disease, which consists, in its full development, of destruction of the ndies of some of the vertebrte, with disintegration of the corresponding atervertebral fibro-cartilages, most commonly occurs in young children, araetimes even during the first year of life. It is, however, met with at later l^'3riods, not uncommonly commencing at puberty, and sometimes much later 1 ill. I have seen it set in after fifty. Pathology.—Angular curvature of the spine, or “ Pott’s disease,” as it is ummonly called after Percival Pott, the celebrated Surgeon to St. Bartholo- .ew’s Hospital, who first accurately described it in 1779, may originate in two t'fferent structures of the spinal column ; viz., 1, the bodies of the vertebrae ; the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. The relative frequency with which the .^sease commences in these two structures has been the subject of considerable *:fference of opinion, some Surgeons maintaining that in the great majority cases the inteiwertebral cartilage is the starting point of the destructive iiflammation, and others that it is rarely if ever primarily affected. The tiuse of this uncertainty seems to be that by the time the opi)ortunity arrives r e.xamiriing the diseased structures the morbid changes are so advanced that is impossible to say where they commenced. In the vast majority, if t)t in all, of the specimens obtained at an early stage of the disease, from atients dying of some accidental complication, there is no doubt that the arting point of the morbid change is the bone. While, therefore, v'o are nt in a position to deny that the disease may originate in the intervertebral »<«, this mode of origin is, to say the least, rare. SHI The pathological ])rocesscs occurring in caries of the vertebra) differ in no aterial respect from those already described (p. 2G7), as taking place in