DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 664 Tlic Palliative Treatment th.it is usually a(lo])te(l iu these cases consists in the introtluction of Ijou^-ics, and an attempt to thus dilate the stricture exactly as in the case of a constriction of the urethra. In introducing bougies into the strictured part of the oesophagus, there is, howe^'cy, often a good deal of difficulty in making the point of the instrument enter the narrowed portion of the canal. This is more particularly the case when tlie consti’iction com- mences suddenly ; the oesophagus, as is frequently the case, being dilated into a pouch-like sac above it, in which the food is apt to lodge, and the end of the instrument to be arrested, and at the bottom of -which a narrow orifice exists, leading into the lower portion of the canal. In these cases, much patience and care may be required in overcoming the difficulty. Besides the ordinary dilatation by gradually increasing the size of the instruments used, I have in some cases seen temporary benefit result from the use of a catheter, surrounded by a tube of vulcanized India-rubber, which admitted of dilatation by the injection of water or air when introduced through the stricture; or from the employment of a tubular instrument, by passing a long small-sized bougie through the constriction, and then slipping a gum-elastic catheter with a rounded terminal aperture over it. It is needless to observe that, in the treatment of stricture of the cesojihagus with bougies, no force should be used, lest the walls of the canal be perforated. From these means temporary relief may result in some cases ; but can an oesophageal stricture be thus cured ? I believe not. If the stricture were ordinarily fibrous, as in the urethra, permanent relief might possibly be expected. But this form of oesophageal constriction is comparatively rare; and if the disease can be made out to be malignant, but little good, and most probably much harm, will result from the irritation of dilating instrnments. We may, therefore, employ dilatation as a means of temporary benefit, but not with the hope of effecting a cure. Should the stricture at last become so tight as no longer to allow the catheter to be passed, and food to be thus injected into the stomach, the patient must inevitably die of inanition, unless kept alive by nutritive enemata. By these means I have Imown life pro- longed, by a frail tenure it is true, for many weeks. In such cases it is an interesting physiological fact that, although the patients may continue to be moderately well nourished, and do not feel, the pangs of hnnger, they suffer excessively from thirst. Has surgery no resource in those cases in which the stricture has become impermeable, and in which neither food can be swallowed nor a catheter passed, and in which, consequently, the most miserable death, death by starvation, is im- pending ? In such cases it has been proposed by SediUot, to open the stomach by an incision throngh the abdominal walls, and thus directly introduce food into the organ. To this operation SediUot gave the name of Gastrostomy. Operation of Gastrostomy.—The object of the operation is to expose the stomach, and to make a fistulous opening in that ;part of it which is naturally in contact with the abdominal wall, and uncovered by the ribs. The operation consists of three stages :—1. The exposure of the stomach ; 2. Its adhesion to the lips of the incision in the abdominal wall; 3. The making of an opening into it. The area to be exposed is not large, and corresponds externally to the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs ; above and internally it is bounded by the lower edge of the liver. In the contracted state of the stomach the pylorus lies immediately to the right of the middle line ;