713 TREATMENT OF MAMMARY ABSCESSES. j hat the apertures throuf*’!! wliich the pus discharges itself in these situations, , legenerate into sinuses, by no means easily closed. 1 Treatment.—In the treatment of inflammation and abscess of the breast I )ccurriug during lactation, it must be borne in mind that we have not a j thenic inflammatory condition to deal with, but that the disease almost I nvariably happens in delicate antemic women, weakened by recent parturition, i t is therefore obvious that antiphlogistic means of an active nature are not I dmissible; and the best plan of treatment appears to consist in keeping I p the strength of the patient by proper constitutional support, at the same j ime that the local inflammation is checked by topical antiphlogistic measures. Che first thing to be done is to prevent if possible the occurrence of suppu- ation; if this can be accomplished, which is, however, rarely the case, much ' .'ill be gained. In order to effect this, the breast should be supported in a iiiig, so as to lessen congestion of it; the arm at the same time being fixed to he side, in order to prevent traction of the pectorals and movement of the iibmammary areolar tissue. If the patient’s strength be good, leeches may be pplied, but these are rarely required or admissible. Hot fomentations should , i e assiduously applied ft'om the first, and the whole breast jDainted with equal 1 aids of glycerine and extract of belladonna; at the same time the milk aould be drawn off by means of a breast-pump or sucker, the child bemg j)ut 3 the unaffected breast or weaned, and an occasional saline purgative admini- :ered. "When suppuration is impending, the application of fomentations may e continued, the patient being allowed a more liberal supply of nourishment, 'ith a moderate supply of malt liquor ; and, so soon as matter can be felt, it lould be cut down upon and let out by an aperture in the most dependent osition. The incision must always be in a line radiating from the nipple, so 5 to avoid needlessly damaging the ducts. It is of great importance that the us should be let out early, by an opening into the lowest part of the abscess. . good-sized drainage-tube should then be inserted, and some efficient, I t itiseptic dressing applied. If these precautions be not taken, the pus ? arrows deeply, diffusing itself through the areolar tissue, under, beyond, and •onnd the gland, opening at several points, and leaving long fistulous tracks arforating the breast in various directions. When suppuration is going on, le patient’s strength must be supported with tonics, the mineral acids, bark, .■ quinine. Stimulants may be given as required, and plenty of nourishment ipplied. Should sinuses fonn in a case of mammary abscess, they will sually close if the child be weaned, and lactation stopped. Should they not so, the emplo\Tnent of pressure and the use of stimulating injections with tention to the general health will usually in time bring about a cure. In iscs of submammary abscess, the incision must be free, and a large drainage- ibe should Ikj used. Sinuses of an intractable kind more commonly follow lis than the other forms of mammary abscess. In the event of their proving hellions, it has l)een proposed to slit them up by free incisions directed wards the nipple; but this is unnecessarily seA'ere practice, and may, I ■lieve, in all cases l)o avoided. It will often be found that the delay in ;aling is due partly to the existence of a cavity beneath the mamma which is •iperfectly drained by the sinuses. Under these circumstances, the orifices the sinuses should be enlarged with a knife, and the tracks dilated with the iger. They should then be scrajied with a sharj) spoon to remove the diealthy granulation-tissue, after which they should be cleaned with a piece I i