\ ■ ^Sy.UPTOMS OF STONE IN THE ELADDER. 941 i rise to more severe symptoms than smooth ones, owing to their iiiduoiiig ( a chronic form of cystitis; as phosphatic calculi are deposited almost in- I variably as the consequence of cystitis with foul urine, they arc accompanied by much local suffering and constitutional disturbance. d’hc syni})toms induced by stone are the result of the mechanical irritation * produced by the presence of a foreign body in the bladder ; they consist of Pain, Increased Frequency in ^ficturition, occasional Stoppage of the Urine, and Various ^Morbid Conditions of that Fluid. The Pain in calculus is often the first symptom that attracts attention; it varies greatly in character and degree. It may not only be experienced iu the region of the bladder and the perinmum, but may radiate widely iu the coui-se of the nerves of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, the patient complaining of a heavy and dragging sensation in the groins, extending down the outside ■ or back of the thighs, and not uncommonly experienced in the soles of the feet. , -The penis is the seat of a good deal of uneasiness ; frequently of a sharp and : cutting pain at the end of the glans. Tliis is especially noticed in children, ; in whom attention is often attracted to the complaint by their constantly I. .'Squeezing and pulling the organ to relieve the distress they suffer iu it. The :pain is much increased by any movement by which the stone is jolted about iu % the bladder, as in driving, riding, or jumping ; and is especially severe iu I ‘those cases in which cystitis occurs. It is always most severe towards the : termination of, or immediately after, micturition ; as there is then a tendency 1 for the ctilculus to roU forwards towards the rreck of the bladder, where it i comes into contact with arrd is grasped by the most sensitive part of that 41 organ. Hence it is not uufrequeut, in cases of calculus irr children, to find t ■ that the little patient instinctively lies uporr its back or side whilst passing :t . urine, and thus escapes much of the agony that he would otherwise suffer. Irr i . adults irr whom the prostate happens to be enlarged, the calculus usually lies iu i . a depression behind this gland ; and hence, being prevented from being > squeezed by the neck of the bladder iu corrsequerree of imperfect corrtraction, I occasions less suffering than in other cases. 1 In consequence of the irritation set up in the bladder occasioning chronic I inflanunation of the mucous membrane, there is arr Increased Frequennj of Micturition, more by day than at night. The urine is passed fr’equently, in ‘Small quantities at a time, usually contains some mucus or pus, and is occa- ■sionaUy tinged with blood, or loaded with thick vesical mucus. But irr marry cases the urine remairrs remarkably clear, trarrsparent, and free from marked adrnixture.s throughout. Albumen fr-orrr blood or pus is commonly present, arrd in the later stages wlren the kidney becomes affected, it may come from that source also. The presence of blood in the urine is ofterr orre of the earliest sigrrs of •storre irr the Idadder, and iu children especially should lead to the suspicion of ' calculus. It rrray be irr large quarrtities, arrd may corrtirrue for rrrauy weeks, - especially in the earlier stages. The urine may then clear as the bladder be- I comes accustomed to the preserree of the stone, and the blood rrray reappear ■ only under the iufluerree of active movement, or of any carrse of increased idrritatiorr of the organ. But it is important to observe that the quantity of a albumen, as shown by boiling the urirre, will corrtirrue to be very groat. It • very rarely happens that a stone has existed for any tinre, without the iu*irie dx'coming occasionally streaked or tinged by blood. An occasiotral StopjKige in the flow of Urine before the bladder is emptied