933 OXALATE OF LUTE CALCULUS. side of tlie glass in lines corresponding to any irregularity in the glass, or to marks left by the cloth used in wiping it out. There is strong reason to believe that in many cases the oxalic acid is produced during the early stages of decomposition after the urine has been passed. Calculus.—The oxalate of lime or mulberry calculus is usually of a dark brown or even black colour, rough, tuberculated, and sometimes almost spiculated on the surface (Fig. 828). It is very heavy and hard. It seldom reaches a great size, as the irritation it causes calls attention to it early. • Oxalic calculi of small size are not unfirequently passed as gravel. Treatment.—When the patient habitually passes oxalates, and especially if they appear as gravel, he must be put upon a light and nourishing diet, •especially fish, as recommended by Bird, ( Cautioning him to avoid sweets and aU fer- rmented liquors, with the exception of a rmoderate quantity of weak spirits and water. "Tonics, particularly the mineral acids, iron, zinc, and quinine, may be given, and the residence should, if possible, be changed for a time to a wann climate. Distilled water Duly must be used for drinking pm*poses. When calculus is formed, there is, owing to :'ts roughness, and the irritable state of the •patient's nervous system, usually a good deal bf pain in the region of the bladder, requiring ±he free administration of opiates. Phosphatic Deposits.—The sediments md calculi containing phosphates occur ■n three distinct forms: 1. Triple or Ammonio-Magnesian Phosphate; Phosphate of Lime; and 3. Mixed Phosphates, consisting of a mixture of I he preceding varieties. 1. The Triple or Ammonio-Magnesian phosphate is met with in all specimens bf urine that are decomposing. It has no pathological significance, and is not 'vssociated \nth any special constitutional condition. It forms the chief part bf the white crust which is deposited on all instruments tied into the bladder br any length of time, and on all stones which have given rise to severe 'jstitis. Fig. 829.—Cry.stal.s of Aiiimonio- Jlagnesian Phosphate.