DISEASE!^ OF FLOOD VESSELS. 76 case of a little girl about three years of age, under my care some few years ago, I removed a umvus that was cutaneous as Avell £is subcutaneous, and as large as a ^valnut, from this situation, by means of the quadruple ligature, with the most satisfactory result, the resulting cicatrix being reuiarkably small ; and in another little girl, from the bridge of whose nose 1 remo\'ed, someyesirs ago, a iifBVUs as largo as a marble, very little scarring or deformity resulted. In both these cases, the naevus was cutaneous asAvell as subcutaneous. If the skin be not affected, the application of a temporary ligature followed by injec- tion of perchloride of iron may be advantageously employed, or the gi’owth may be destroyed by electrolysis. When the tip and aim of the nose are afiected, the nmvus being cutaneous, we can seldom do much to improve the appearance of the patient. In such cases, I have tried Ijreaking down the nmvus, and the galvanic cautery, without any material benefit ; the destruc- tion of the tissues soon afterwards leading to deformity. When the nsevus is subcutaneous, occupying the tip, aim, and columna nasi, galvano-puncture, or injection with perchloride of iron, are the only means that I have found of real service. If the perchloride be injected, care must be taken not to throw in too much of the liquid, lest sloughing or sudden death result. Naevi of the Cheeks may occur in three distinct forms. 1. There may be a simple cutaneous nmvus, a mere staining of the skin, a “ mother’s mark.” This admits of no satisfactory treatment in most cases ; and the subject of it must submit to continue through life to exhibit the characteristic discolora- tion. 2. The elevated cutaneous nmvus may be raised above the surface, being of a deep purplish-red or plum-colour, and covered with a very thin integument. In this form of the disease, I think that the application of concentrated nitric acid is the best means of extirpation. By one or two free applications of the caustic, the growth is removed, and a dense white cicatrix, presenting little disfigm’ement, is left in its place. 3. The nmvus may involve the whole thickness of the cheek, being scarcely, if at all, cutaneous. Nmvi of this kind cannot, of course, be extirpated, either by the knife, ligature, or caustics, lest the cheek be perforated, and the most serious disfigurement ensue. In such cases we must endeavour to obliterate the structure of the nmvus by galvano-puncture, by exciting inflammation in it by setons, or by breaking down the structure of the growth with cataract-needles or a fine tenotome. In a case which I attended some years ago, I cured a large and deeply seated nmvus, which occupied one cheek, by passing a number of fine silk threads across it in different directions, and gradually breaking it down piece by piece, with a cataract-needle ; no disfigurement whatever being left. Naevi of the Lips require different treatment, according as they occupy the margin or have involved the whole substance of these parts. When seated at the margin, as projecting and somewhat pendulous growths, they may very readily be removed by a double or quadruple ligature, according to their size. This was the practice pursued in the case from which the accompanying draw- ings (Figs. 430,431) were taken, where a most excellent result was obtained by the use of the ligature, followed at a later period by injection of perchloride of iron into some of the more widely diffused parts of the growth. "W hen the nmvus involves the whole thickness of the lip, such measures are not always available. In these cases galvano-puncture, repeated at intervals of about a Aveek till the Avhole growth is consolidated, is perhaps the safest and best