992 UJxV^^AJiY CALCULUS AND LITUOTRITY. ing through moderate-sized stones ; the second kind, with the broad male blade, is used in completely crushing and removing the detritus of small calculi, and the large fragments into which a stone has been broken by the open-bladed lithotrite. Thompson’s lithotrite (Fig. 879) somewhat resembles Civiale’s in its action, ! Fig. 879.—Tlioinpaon’s Imx)roved Lithotrite. but is more handy. It is made with a fenestrated female blade for breaking the stone, or with a scoop for crushing fragments. Prepaeation of the Patient.—Before proceeding to the operation of lithotrity, it is necessary that the patient’s constitution should be carefully attended to ; the bowels should be freely opened, and the condition of the | digestive organs regulated, and, more especially, all local irritability about the urinaiy organs should be subdued by ordinary medical treatment. This is even of much greater importance in lithotrity than in lithotomy. In lithotrity, we must always expect that any existing irritation or inflammation of the bladder will be increased by the necessary introduction of instruments, and by the presence of sharp fragments of calculus in the bladder, and their passage along the urethra; but in lithotomy all source of irritation is at once removed by the extraction of the stone. The condition of the urinary organs must be veiy carefully examined : and, if these be diseased, it will probably be requisite to abandon the operation. In a subsequent part of this Chapter, when we come to the comparison of lithotomy and lithotrity, we shall examine the conditions which either indicate or negative the performance of the latter operation. At present, we will suppose a case in which the Surgeon may have recourse to lithotrity. with every prospect of readily and permanently freeing the patient of his calculus; one in which the calculus is of moderate size, single, and not too hard: the urinary organs healthy ; and the patient an adult, but not too aged. In performing the operation in such a case, but little preparatory treat- ment is required ; though it is well to keep the patient quiet for a few days, S and to regulate his bowels before anything is done. Should the patient be I nervous about the use of instruments, or should the urethra be irritable, a large sound may be passed every second day, so as to accustom the patient and the parts to the use and contact of instruments. Use of Anjesthetics.—Much difference of opinion existed formerly as to the advisability of employing anaesthetics in lithotrity. It has been objected to their use that the sensations of the patient are a useful guide to the Surgeon in his manipulations; and that, if these be annihilated by | anaesthetics, injuiy may be done by the lithotrite nipping or otherwise bruising | the mucous membrane. But this objection is not tenable. It is the sensa- ^ tions of the Surgeon, and not those of the patient, that constitute a valuable ^ guide. Although in the majority of cases lithotrity, when properly performed. ; is almost a painless procedure, yet cases not imfrequently occur in which the patient can with difficulty support the necessary manipulations, and in which,