954 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. well lateralizcd, with the point .steadily pressed into the <iToove of the If a Suro-eon know what he is about, he may safely hold his knife as best suits bis own convenience. In the first incision, most operab/rs, I believe, hold the knife under the hand, as rejwesented in Fig. «o(; ; a position which that excellent lithotomist and accomplished Surgeon, Fci'gnsson, jn-e- served throughout the operation. Liston, in the early part of his career, appears to have held the knife, in the second stage of the opei'ation, above the hand ; and in all the representations, published as well as unpublished, that he has left of his operation, he has depicted the knife and hands in the position shown in Fig. 857 ; which, in the last edition of his Practical Surgery, he describes as a correct sketch of “ the position of the hands and knife ” at the commencement of the second stage of the operation. There can be no doubt, however, as Fergusson has pointed out, that in actual practice, at least after his first few years as an o]ierator, he held the knife under the hand, with the index-finger upon the side or the back of the blade. For my own part, I believe that every Surgeon will hold the knife in the way which he finds most convenient, and, as it were, natural to him. If any rules can be laid down on this point, I should say that, in operating on a child, or on an adult with a shallow perinmum, the knife is most conveniently held as represented in Fig, 856. But if the patient be fat, and the perineum deep, then I think that it is a question whether greater steadiness may not sometimes be secured by holding the knife somewhat in the manner of a gorget, with the index-finger perhaps a little more upon the side of the handle (Figs. 858 and 854) ; in this way the point is firmly pressed into the groove of the staff, out of which it cannot slip, as it is secured and supported by the index-finger being somewhat under it. The section of the prostate is thus made by a steady push or thrust of the knife forwards, and not by any cutting movement downwards. No danger can result in the deep incision from pushing the point of the knife up into the groove of the staff; but there IS great danger of missing the bladder, and entermg the recto-vesical space, if it be at all depressed and the handle raised, though this cannot always be avoided if the staff be pushed deeply into the bladder. It may happen that, the knife will not run readily along the groove, if its blade form too small an angle Avith the part of the staff Avith Avhich it is in contact. The hand must then be slightly raised and depressed again as the knife glides along the curve of the staff into the bladder, so that the point may be kept well in the groove; and all risk of slipping out avoided. 2. The Incision into the Prostate must be at least of sufficient size to admit the tip of the fore-finger readily. The extent to which it should be carried has been the subject of much discussion, and of Avide diversity of opinion ; John Bell advising that the incision should reach backwards to the bladder, and Scarpa, that it should not exceed five lines in adults and tAvo in children. The danger, hoAvever, it must be borne in mind, does not consist in the section of the prostate itself—Avhich is in reality a structure of but little importance—but in cutting beyond it to such an extent as to open up the loose areolar tissue surrounding the bladder, Avhich would expose the patient to the danger of urinary extravasation and diffuse inflammation. It was formerly supposed by some Surgeons that a stone of moder.ate size could be extracted through the prostate Avithout tearing the fibrous capsule of