400 EXCISION OF JOINTS. death ; and this, in the lower extremity, is extremely a without a satisfactory^ Since the introduction of anesthetic agents, Conservatiye Surgery has taken great strides ; and I think Conservatism in Surgery may be regarded as the necessary result of Anesthesia. For, although operations of this kind were performed years ago by Park, the Moreaus, and others, and their utility demonstrated, yet the operations of gouging, scraping, and partial resection Avere so horribly painful to the patient, and occupied so much time in their performance, that patients dreaded to submit to, and Surgeons declined to undertake, them. Of late years Surgeons have learned to discriminate disease of one part of the tarsus from that of another, and to apply appropriate treat- ment to each. Looking at the subject from a diagnostic point of view—and the treatment is most intimately connected with minute and accurate diagnosis—we find that the pathology of diseases of the tarsus is closely connected with its healthy anatomy. Composed of seven bones, it presents four distinct articulations. By the term “ articulation,” applied to the tarsus, I do not mean merely the connection of contiguous bones with each other, but distinct synovial sacs shut off from communication with other synovial sacs in the foot. These are well represented in the annexed diagram (Fig. 556). The posterior calcaneo-astragaloid is the first of them ; next comes the {a) anterior cakaneo-asira- -—d galoid, the synovial membrane here serving also for the astragalo-scajjhoid; the cakaneo-cnhoid (&) is the third ; and the anterior tarsal synovial membrane (c) is the fourth and largest of all, and the most important in a surgical aspect. It extends betAveen the scaphoid and the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones, between the cuneiform bones themselves, between the two outer cuneiforms and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones, and also between the external cuneifoim and the cuboid. The articulation between the cuboid and last two metatarsal bones is shown at A; and e is that between the cuneiform and the first metatarsal bones. These two (if and e) are not, strictly "Tn the\Slijority of cases, so far as my experience goes, it is the structures, and not the articulations, which are primarily diseased Tte bones being cancellous, far removed from the centre of circulation, and ^ posed to alterations of temperature, readily become tlie seat of congestiOT an L-ies but rarely of necrosis ; and in strumous subjects not iinfaqiicntly M Z a tlerculoL condition. Caries, whether simple or tyercnlous, once set uu in bones speedily implicates the articulations secondarily. "NowTwil! easily be nnderstood, on casting an eye on the ar»^^ the tarsal svnovial membranes, that the ayent o c isea , ^ . measure, depend upon its original seat. Thus, a pereoii may have disease c e Fig. 556.—Diagram of Syno\-ial Mem- branes of tbe Foot. »I J . }i n M IM. I- tlT i 11 1; 1 1