REPAIR OF BONE AFTER NECROSIS. 293 vascular. That the periosteum talces the ])riiicipal share in the reproduction is evident from the fact tliat, where it is deficient or has been destroyed, aper- tures are left in the case of new hone ; and if it he removed altogether, osseous tissue is either not thrown out at all, or most sparingly hy the con- tiguous old hone, or hy the epiphyses. The. soft tissues, also, of the limb generally, if thick, as in the thigh, con- tribute to the formation of granulation-tissue, which gradu- ally ossifies, and so tends to strengthen the new case ; and, lastly, the articular ends of the old bone, still preserving their vitality, constitute most important agents in the re- parative process, becoming consolidated firmly to the new shaft that is formed. The importance of the periosteum as the organ of regeneration of bone after the removal of the osseous structures, whether experimentally or sm’gically by resection, or by necrosis, has been conclusively demon- strated by Ollier of Lyons. This Surgeon has shown by many ingenious experiments, that in the lower animals reproduction of a whole bone may take place, as in the case of the radius in rabbits and pigeons, after it has been removed from within the periosteum ; and that, if the peri- osteum be dissected off in slips, and twisted here and there between the muscles of the limb, new bone of various shapes may be formed on and by this partially detached mem- brane. Ollier has further shown that, although in man, after operations and disease, new bone may be formed by the contiguous osseous tissue, and even by the neighbour- ing soft parts, yet the periosteum is essentially the organ of the regeneration of bone : thus confirming, by new and ingenious experiments, and by additional observations, the views that have just been expressed. The whole of a necrosed bone may, after separation, be reproduced by the periosteum. This is admirably illustrated by the amiexed drawing, taken from the photoglyph of a preparation in the museum of the late Dr. J. Wood of Xew York. The whole of the inferior maxilla had separated as the result of phosphorus disease; the patient, a girl, lived for three years, the lower jaw having been reproduced as a perfect ring of bone, as represented in Fig. 50G. Thus it will be seen that the new Inme is formed by the vascular and healthy tissues generally that suri’ound the seat of disease, though in this re- ])arative process the periosteum takes the chief share, the epiphyses and old hone the next, and the areolar tissue of the limb but a very secondary and supplemental part. In acute necrosis, repair commences as soon as the intensity of the inflammation has been reduced by the escape of pus through the incisions. In a few days the swollen and thickened periosteum will be Fig. 505. — Central Necrosis. New Bone with Cloacae; included Sequestrum. Fig. 500.—Kejirodtictiou of Lower Jaw aftei' Pliosi)lu)rus-Necrosis.