446 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. f Ifc is indeed only by attention to these circumstances that the Surgeon is enabled in many cases to form an approximate opinion on* the seat and extent of the osseous disease ; for the diseased bone is often so covered in by healthy osseous structure, as when the inner aspect of the great trochanter is afiected, or by inflamed and indurated tissues, that the probe cannot touch it; or the sinus may be so tortuous that a straight probe cannot follow its windings. Sayre’s vertebrated probe (Fig. 503) is very useful in these cases. But there is other important information obtainable from an attentive con- sideration of the situation of the sinuses. It is with reference to the probable nature of the osseous disease. In femoral coxalgia, this is almost invariably caries—sometimes simple, in other cases tuberculous, and occasionally compli- cated by necrosis of the head of the bone ; hence those sinuses that indicate Fif. 5S0.—Acute Disease of Hip-joint in an Adult. Destruction of Head of Femur. Softening of Ligaments. Dislocation on to the Dorsum Hii. the existence of primary disease of the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone prove this to be of a carious nature ; whilst, on the other hand, sinuses occurring in the pubic region and by Poupart’s ligament are almost invariably dependent on the presence of necrosed bone—necrosis being the form of disease that effects the acetabulum and pelvic bones. 6. Dislocation.—In the advanced forms of hip-disease, dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone commonly occurs, and may arise from three causes. a. The joint may be destroyed ; the capsular ligament having given way in consequence of inflammatory softening and ulceration, and the head of the bone being thrown out of the cavity by the action of the surrounding muscles. 5. Caries and partial absorption of the head of the thigh-bone may have taken place, so that it no longer fills up the cotyloid cavity ; and the ligaments, and a A X 4 •11 i j j j. i ■i I I ] 1 I 1 1 1 ,1 1 < \ i I