425 DIAGXOSIS OF CARIES OF SPINE. Ijlsentation. In psoas abscess there is some flexion of the thigh, witli pain on P forced extension. General oedema of the limb may occasionally arise from a psoas abscess after it has reached the inner side of the thigh. In rare cases ; R after opening, if septic inflammation follows, the abscess cavity may ulcerate into the hip-joint, causing acute and rapidly destructive arthritis. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of caries of the spine is made at the first sight II; of a patient affected by the disease, when once the angular deformity has . oaken place. It is, however, difficult before excurvation occurs, being indicated 'it this period only by the existence of pain in the back, and by some ; uTiiptoms of spinal irritation. At this stage it may be mistaken for spinal or .ntercostal neuralgia, for rheumatism, or for stone in the kidney. The I persistence, however, of a continuous fixed pain in the back should always lead ,0 a suspicion as to the true nature of the disease, lest the grievous error be lommitted of treating as mere neuralgia or rheumatism what may turn out to I -)e incurable disease of the spine itself. Here the tenderness on pressure, the i ncreased seusibility to the application of heat will determine the seat of the i -Section. The pain elicited by rotation or by antero-posterior movement is a ! # I'/ery valuable symptom. In most cases pain on bending backwards is most : i ; omplained of. The patient can stoop forwards, but if bent backwards suffers i; liauch. So also pressure on the head or shoulders greatly increases the pain of W.he part affected. The shape of the back, with loss of the natural and graceful v| urves of the spine with a tendency, though it be very slight, to projection of r •[ ome of the spinous processes, the feeling of weakness in the back, the diffi- H ) ulty in rising from a sitting or horizontal position, in turnmg, or in standing I! p n one leg unaided, the loss of the natural flexibility of the spine, aud especially ^ he occurrence of these symptoms in early childhood or youth, at a period Id j'.'hen the other diseases with which it may be confounded rarely occur, and Dre still more rarely persistent, would lead one to suspect the existence of caries f the spine. The diagnosis between abscesses localized in the situations mentioned, and lose arising from diseased spine, is not always easy ; as purulent collections f various kinds may form in the different planes of areolar tissue in the neigh- )urhood of the vertebral column, without any disease existing in it. Thus, a rge psoas abscess descending in the sheath of the muscle and presenting under oupart’s ligament, may occur from some irritation of the areolar or fascial fc r.ructures without disease of any of the vertebrm. In these cases of simple '‘^iscess, the diagnosis from the psoas abscess dependent upon vertebral disease ni usually easy, as there will be an absence of all excurvation of the spine or ^en of tenderness along it. As psoas abscess dependent upon vertebral caries most invariably presents in the groin, and a large abscess in the groin may ise from various other conditions, independently of such vertebral disease, le Surgeon must attend carefully to the diagnosis of these various conditions. bscess and fluctuatmy stvellings in the groin may arise from the following : n.ses :—1, from large chronic collections of pus in the subcutaneous or inter- uscular planes of areolar tissue ; 2, from disease of the areolar tissue around e kidneys ; 3, from pericoecal abscess (on the right side only) ; 4, from iliac •acess, whether forming merely under the iliac fascia, or dependent on disease the pelvic bones ; y, from hip-joint disease, the abscess being pelvic ,• (», cm large buboes or glandular abscesses ; 7, from an empyema perforating the eura and finding its way down behind the diaphragm ; 8, from serous or I n