FOB MS OF PERINEAL ABSCESS. 112 1 1 • f I region. It is the confinement of the pus by the fascia which gives these abscesses their special character. Owing to the attachments of the deep fascia which have just been described, the pus formed in connection with the urethra is shut oft* from the ischio-rectal fossa, just as extravasated urine is. If the abscess be left unrelieved, it may burrow widely around the bulb and along the urethra before it reaches the surface by perforating the fascia. It is very important, tlierefore, that such abscesses should be opened early. The chief forms of perineal abscess met with are the following :— 1. Abscesses arising from Suppuration in a Lacuna or Follmdar Gland.— These have already been described as an occasional complication of gonorrhoea. They are met with also in stricture. They may point slowly towards the surface, without actually communicating with the urethral canal. In other cases they open into the urethra, and then run the same course as abscesses commencing from the canal. 2. Abscesses commencing from Ulcei'ation in the Urethra behind a stricture. —These arise in the dilated pouch behind a tight stricture. As before stated, the mucous membrane at this part is thickened and opaque, and often pig- mented, showing evidence of chronic inflammation. The openings of the ducts are dilated, sometimes giving the whole surface a reticulated appearance. The ulceration commences in one of the hollows thus formed. The inflamma- tory consolidation of the surrounding tissues prevents general extravasation ; but the pressure during micturition and the constant presence of retained urine causes gradual extension of the cavity till a distinct abscess is formed discharging imperfectly into the urethra. Such an abscess slowly extends till it reaches the surface. It then bursts its cavity, contracts to a narrow channel, and thus a urinary fistula is formed. At any period before it bursts superficially, its wall may be ruptured during a violent effort at micturition, and diffuse extravasation of urine may result. 3. Abscesses from Injuries by Instruments.—These occasionally arise from false passages made with a catheter or bougie ; they may also follow forcible dilatation or internal urethrotomy. More rarely they result from inflamma- tion and ulceration of the mucous membrane around an instrument tied into a tight stricture. These abscesses usually fonn rapidly. If resulting from a false paasage behind a tight stricture, they may lead to extravasation of urine ; but under other circumstances, as there is a free passage through the urethra, this is not likely to occur. If the injury is in the bulbous or si)Ongy portion, the pus may buiTow forwards along the urethra under the accelerator urinae, and appear at the root of the penis in front of the scrotum. 4. Suppuration of Coiuper's Glandhm). occasional cause of a perineal abscess. It may occur from the irritation of a stricture, but far more commonly it is met with during the acute stage of gonorrheea. The gland can at first be felt as a tender knot on one side of the middle line near the bulb. This gradually increases and becomes more tender, and at last fluctuation is felt. This form of abw;es8 can be recognized if seen early by its situation, and by the fact that it is distinctly on one side of the middle line. At a later period it may burrow widely round the bnlb and in the perimeum, so that its exact origin cannot be determined. It usually causes some diflicnlty in micturition. 5. Prostatic Abscesses may, as before stated (p. 1053), occasionally point in the perinaeum.