964 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. application of the forceps, tli'e blades of which could not he introduced between the walls of the viscus 'without usino; an impi'oper de<rree of force, and givin<^ rise to the danger of rupturing the neck of the bladder. I am disposed t<j think that this “ spasm of the bladder” is ])urely imaginary, and that the real difficulty has arisen from some other cause, tos perha])S a contracted and rickety pelvis. But, whatever may be the real cause of a difficulty that has un- doubtedly been encountei-ed, I think it Avould be safei- for the Surgeon to desist from the operation, and in the course of a few days or weeks endeavour to complete the extraction, and thus perform the operation “a (Jpa/x Icmps ” of Deschamps. The stone may be &o fixed Imhveen hyperIroplued fasckidi in the interior of the bladder, as to be detached with considerable difficulty. In such cases, the scoop will be found to be the most useful instrument for its removal. AVhon the calculus is encysted, its extraction will probably be impracticable, or attended with most dangerous consequences. Hence, it is expedient not to operate in cases of encysted calculus that are known to be such. If, however, the Surgeon have been unfortunate enough to cut into a bladder containing an encysted calculus, he must be guided in the course he .should adopt by the condition in which he finds the stone. If the aperture leading into the cyst Ikj very small, as in Fig. 836, the better plan Avill be to proceed no further '^nth the operation, as it will be clearly impossible to remove the stone. If, on the other hand, the aperture into the cyst be large, he might feel disposed to make an effort to extract the calculus. With this view he might adopt the plan pursued by Sir B. Brodie in such a case, and endeavour to enlarge the orifice of the cyst by means of a probe-pointed bistoury cautiously applied, and then finish the extraction by means of a scoop. Such a proceeding, however, is in the highest degree hazardous, on account of the readiness wdth which the section may extend into the peritoneal cavity; as well as difficult in execution, fi’om the depth at which the parts are lying. I believe that a calculus may occasionally become encysted, or rather encap- suled, in another way,—by being covered in by a kind of false membrane whilst lying on the floor of the bladder. This condition I found in a boy on whom I operated for stone some years ago. After removing a calculus of about the size of a pea, I felt, Avith the end of the finger, a hard irregular body, (mvered apparently by mucous membrane, lying at the inferior fundus of the bladder. On scraping through the membrane covering this with the point of my nail and a curved scoop, I exposed the calculus (Fig. 833), and removed it, with a cyst attached to it. On examining the structure of this cyst, which was of about the thickness of ordinary Avriting paper, of a reddish colour, and resembling a piece of mucous membrane, it Avas found to be a false membrane, composed of organized fibro-cellular tissue. The patient made a good recoA'eiy, Avith the exception of a slight attack of secondary hremonhage, Avhich occurred on the eighth day after the operation. Fibroid Tumours in the Prostate constitute sometimes rather a serious diffi- culty in lithotomy. They may do this in tAVO Avays ; first, by elongating the prostatic part of the urethra to so great an extent as to carry the neck of the bladder far from the surface ; and, secondly, by being in the Avay during ex- traction of the stone. A tumour of this kind, an inch or more in diameter, necessarily fills up to a A'ery serious extent the space in the AA’Ound through which the stone has to pass ; it jams up the orifice and pi’CA'cnts the free ]day I ( i ■ ( I 1 • t . I ‘ f. :/( . i. . ; I 1 :