6i4 plastic SURGEJiY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. intermaxillaiy bone. Tn exceedino-ly rare cases the fissure of the hare-lip has been seen exteiidin»- upwards on one side of the nose towards the eye. Macrostoina or congenital transverse fissure of the cheeks results from arrested union of the superior and inferior maxillary plates. Single Hare-lip is by far the most common deformity (Fig. C99). In it the mesial side of the gap is usually rounded; the outer edge is flattened; and the frmnum at the angle is long and subcutaneous. It most frequently, so fai’ as I have observed, occurs upon the left side. When double (Figs. 700, 701), the fissure is often deeper on one side than on the other, and usually extends into the nostril, and is associated with cleft palate; though sometimes it stops short of this. In these cases the nose is usually flattened and expanded, and between the fissures there is always a central or median lobule, consisting of the intermaxillary bones in a rudimentary condition; to this a triangular labial nodule is commonly attached. In many cases this is j^ushed forwards, and tilted on its base, so that the alveolar border projects forwards. Some- times the projection is so considerable that it is attached to the ti]D of the nose. Median fissure is so rare that there are scarcely any authentic cases of it in the records of surgery. Delahaye, however, mentions one instance of mesial fissure of the upper lip with two lateral fissures, and Nicati has described one in the lower lip, the only case of the kind that I have met with on record. The fissure, when single, may be confined to the lip; but in the majority of cases it extends to the alveolus of the upper jaw, giving rise to a deep notch between the outer incisor and the canine tooth. When it is double, the four incisors, usually imperfectly and irregularly developed, are included in the central intermaxillary tubercle. Meckel and Fig. 702.-Skeleton of Jaw in Nicati have described a rare form of hare-lip, in Doubie Hare-bp, and Cleft Palate, -^rhich the fissui’e coiTespoiids to the line of junction between the central and lateral incisors. In many cases the fissure extends back into the palate; this more frequently happens when the hare-lip is double, and in these cases every variety of palatal deformity is met with (Fig. 702). Age for Operation.—The cure of hare-lip can be effected only by a properly conducted operation. In the performance of this, the first point that has to be determined is the age at which it should be done. On this there has been, and is still, a good deal of difference of opinion. Surgeons generally are, how- ever, I think, agreed that it is better not to perform the operation during den- tition ; at all events not during the cutting of the incisor teeth, when there is much local excitement and general irritability of the nervous system ; but they are not agreed as to whether it should be done before or after dentition. In support of the opinion that it is more prudent to wait until after this period, it is alleged that very young infants are especially liable to convulsions; that the performance of operations on them is troublesome; and that it interferes with suckling. These statements, however, are not supported by what we meet with in practice. There is no evidence to show that there is any danger in operating during early infancy ; on the contraiy, very young children, those