DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 572 appearance. The mental activity decreased, thoiiglit and speecli became slow. The movements generally were sluggish, but there was no impairment of the mental powers. Swelling of the body, Imt more especially of the face, now began to take place, ddie eyelids became tliickened and somewhat transparent, and the expression of the countenance idiotic. Hands, face, and abdomen SAvelled. The skin lost its elasticity and became dry. The hair fell off. In more developed cases anasmia occurred. In those cases in which the growth of the body was incomplete this was retarded in a very marked manner. In some instances dysphagia, headache, and giddiness were met with. These symptoms, it will be observed, are identical with those of myxee- dema ,* ” not one is absent that is met with in that disease, not one is added. The only explanation that can be given of the identity of the symptoms following total extirpation of the thyroid body as described by Kocher, and those of myxoedema, as described by Gull and Ord, is that the one pathological condition common to both, viz., absence of the thyroid body, is the cause of the symptoms. Excision of the Isthmus of the thyroid has been reconmiended by Tillaux as a means of cure in certain cases of bronchocele, the effect of the operation being to lead to atrophy of the enlarged lateral lobes of the thyroid. Tillaux in Paris, and Sydney Jones in this country, have pi’actised the opera- tions successfully in several cases. The operation consists in exposing the isthmus by a median incision, passing a double ligature through it at either end, tying them tightly, and then excising the intervening portion. S. Jones advises that the wound should be 'well drained. The result appears to have been very satisfactory, but the principle on which it is obtained is certainly very obscure. Acute Bronchocele is a very different disease from the chi’onic forms. It is of rare occurrence, but has been met with both sporadically and epidemi- cally, and in young subjects. In tliis form of the affection the thyroid gland undergoes rapid enlargement, attaining to the size of the fist or larger in the com’se of a few days or weeks. Both lobes and the isthmus become affected. Owing to the rapid enlargement of the thyroid body, the fascia of the neck covering it does not stretch with sufficient rapidity ; and the consequence is that the subjacent parts, as the trachea, become compressed, so that intense dyspnoea sets in, and death from asphyxia may result in the course of a few days or weeks. It is difficult in these cases to know how to save the patient; for tracheotomy by the ordinary methods may be impracticable, owing to the manner in which the tumour dips down behind the sternum. In such cases, tapping the tumour in different places, and the division of the fascia of the neck covering it, may give relief, and afford time for the action of remedies. If this fails and death is imminent from asphyxia, two courses only are open to the Surgeon, either the isthmus must be divided accurately in the middle line, Paquelin’s red-hot knife being used to limit the hmmorrhage, or the larynx may be opened, the cricoid cartilage being divided and a long cannula or a catheter be passed downwards past tlie obstruction. The latter method has been successfully adopted by Kbnig, who has invented a special cannula for such cases. In his case the tube had to be passed nearly five inches downwards before air entered freely through it. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Graves’s Disease.—In practice we not un-