1105 FORMS OF URETHROTOME. iponcling to a No. 1, having a female screw at its extremity, is then screwed on to it and passed )nwards, while the conducting sound coils up in diat the conducting sound has passed in the proper itirection. It is now withdrawn again, the con- flicting sound being left in position. The catheter -iS now replaced by the urethrotome, which screws .very ingenious urethrotome for cutting from behind •for cutting from before backwards is represented ;in Fig. It combines the principles of several others, and has been found to work most success- ffiilly. It is thus employed. The conducting sound ! having been passed and ascertained to be in the ! bladder, the female screw b is applied to the male sscrew a, and the instrument passed through the ^ 'Stricture. The blades i and Ji, ivhen closed, about equal a No. 8 catheter in size. The point b is ; about equal to a No. 1. The instrument having : been passed, the wedge e, which contains a knife d concealed in a shield c, is now inserted between ithe blades and passed steadily down. The blades ^ tthus separated stretch and steady the urethra ; and when the stricture is reached, the shield c stops against it and prevents further progress. The •small concealed knife d is'then protruded by press- ing the button at the top of the instrument, and as soon as the finger is removed it is withdrawn again by the spring 1. The wedge can then be passed on a little further, and if it hitch again the knife can be again protnided. By this means the urethra is cut only at the points of stricture, and no more wound is made than is absolutely e necessary. The incision is always made down- wards towards the floor of the urethra. This instrument may be employed in almost any stricture that will admit the conducting sound. In larger strictures Civiale’s urethrotome (Fig. 0.84) may be used. In order to use this instrument, the stricture must be dilated up to about No. 5. The end of the instrument is then passed beyond it, and, the small blade having been made to Fii<. OM. Ucrknlpy HiU’s DilaUir niul Urethrotome, a. I’ront View; n, Side View; r, Coiulucting Sound with Hinall male nerew at « ; b, female Screw ; c, Blieath for concealed knife ; d, knife i>rotru(ied ; e, wedge for separating the hladen h ami i; the knife Is on the posterior aspect of the wedge ; j/, rod for carrying the wedge : /, riKl for protruding the knife ; A-, screw for regulating the distance to which the knife can iM'^iiro- tnided ; /, spring to dniw kick the knife and keep it concealed, except when iirotrndcd hy inessing' the hutton opimsite i and n. (In Fig. B the button should have Ik’cu represented as depressed.) ° the bladder. If the urine flow, it is then certain tnidcd from an instrument not larger than a No. 2. VO I., II.