SYMPTOMS OF IXTERSTITIAL NEPJIIUTIS. 913 health. Tfc "ivcs rise to 110 ccdenia, no marked aiiminia, and no alteration in the function of the skin. The most characteristic feature is probably an increase in the quantity of urine, with a diminution in the specific j>Tavity. In a case lately in University College Hospital, the patient passed five pints of arine daily with a specific gravity of lOOo or 1004. In all cases in which it is : lesirable to ascertain the condition of the kidneys, the urine should bo collected mr the whole day, and the specific gravity taken. If the quantity be large and :he specific gravity low, chronic interstitial nephritis may be suspected. The |uantity of albumen is always small, and it may be absent altogether. At ji nost, only a few hyaline casts can be found, and often no renal epithelium, i The excretion of urea is usually in sufficient amount, as the quantity of urine i nakes up for the low specific gravity. If the primary disease give rise to much !j uis and mucus, or to a little blood, the difficulties of diagnosis arc greatly ■ ucreased, and reliance must then be placed solely in the quantity and specific :gravity, and even these may prove deceptive. It is rarely possible to gain nuch information by feeling the kidney. There is no tenderness, and it is seldom iifficicntly enlarged for the Surgeon to form any conclusion as to its condition. ! Subacute interstitial nephritis gives rise to more evident symptoms. The i latient is weak and languid, and slowly but steadily emaciates. He loses his ; ppetite and has occasional attacks of nausea, though rarely actual vomiting, tis tongue is furred and has a tendency to become dry, and occasionally here is thirst. There is no tenderness over the kidney. There may be occa- ionally a slight feeling of chilliness, seldom actual rigors. The temperature .'ill be found to be slightly elevated, especially at night ; and for this reason, in ■ ny doubtful case, it is essential to obtain the evening temperature, as in the aorning it may fall to normal. It seldom rises above 101° F. The urine is i ^ bundant and usually of low specific gravity, but by no means always so. It j- 5 seldom possible to find casts or to judge of the amount of albumen, as this ji onn of disease usually accompanies bladder-affections, Which fill the urine ;i "ith pus or mucus, as chronic cystitis, stone, and stricture. At most, only a ;w renal epithelium cells and possibly a hyaline cast or two could be found, fi’his condition may last for weeks or even months, the patient gradually be- I’Oming weaker and weaker, until he is carried off by some intercurrent disease, : ^r dies of pure exhaustion. More commonly however, an acute attack super- venes on the subacute, either spontaneously or as the result of some surgical Mtei-ference, and, rapidly ending in suppuration of the kidney, terminates vitally. On the other hand, the symptoms often gradually subside, the tem- perature becomes normal, and the patient gains strength. The improvement mally coincides with some diminution of the local irritation at the primary ;at of disease, such as results from rest in bed in a case of stone, or ffom the causing of a foul bladder. As the symptoms are somewhat indefinite, it is Pten difficult to say how much is due to renal mischief and how much to the rimary affection ; but wherever we find a dry tongue, a persistent nocturnal levation of temperature, loss of appetite, general weakness and emaciation, e ought to make every attempt to get i-id of these symptoms before under- iking any serious .surgical procedure, such as the treatment of stricture, diotomy, or litliotrity, the irritation of wliich might start the smouldering iflammation into activity. Acute interstitial and suppurative nephritis gives rise to much more manifest 'mptonis, often supervening on tho.se just described. The attack, which is VOL. II. 3 X