EXCISION OF THE PYLORUS. 853 t of faeces. A pair of polypus-forceps, sheathed with pieces of drainage-tube, will, ill the absence of a special instruinent, answer the purpose very well. An india-rubber ring may be put round the handles to keep them closed. The piece of gut is then cut away between the forceps ; in the case of small intestine, a V-shajied piece of the mesentery is removed with it. Any faeces that escape must now be Avashed aAvay and the gut thoroughly cleaned, both inside and out, Avith an antiseptic solution. All bleeding is then arrested, and the sutures introduced iu the manner described at p. 8(50, Vol. I. It is noAV generally agreed that fine silk, introduced Avith the finest possible needle, is the best form of suture. It should have been preAuously rendered thoroughly aseptic. Czerny recoinmends boiling it for some time in a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid, but simply soaking in the solution for tAventy-four hours is practically sufficient. It is better to introduce all the sutures before tighten- ing any. To overcome the difficulty of picking up the serous and muscular coats only in the collapsed intestine, Treves has iuA^ented an india-rubber campon, Avhich can be introduced into the tAvo ends and distended with air. After all the stitches haA'e been introduced, but before they are tightened, it' can be alloAA'ed to collapse, and is then easily withdmAvn. The stitches having- been tightened, a line of sutures is carried along the V-shaped slit in the mesentery, if it be small intestine that is being removed, lest an aperture be left Avhich might give rise to internal hernia from a coil of gut slipping through it. The clamps are then removed. The gut may then be kept out of the abdomen for a minute or tAvo ; and should any fceces pass into it, it must be carefully examined for any leak. If it be perfectly tight, it is care- fully cleaned and put back into the abdomen. In cases of operation for artificial anus or gangrenous gut iu hernia, the external wound may have a drainage-tube inserted ; in others, it may be completely closed. In any case, an antiseptic dressing is applied. In some cases of tumour of the boAvel the patient’s condition is such that it is impossible to submit him to an operation lasting often an hour and a half to two hoiu-s. The tumour may then be removed, and the gut brought out at the Avound so as to form an artificial anus. This operation has been performed by Bryant and ^Marshall. Bryant’s patient survived, and was in good health a year after. EXCISION OF THE PYLORUS. X n I The possibility of removing the pylorus for cancer Avas first suggested by Billroth in 1877. Gussenbauer and Y. Winiwarter subsequently experimentally demonstrated the possibility of removing ])ortions of the stomach fi'om animals. The first operation on the human subject was performed by Bean, Avho remoA'ed the pylorus in 1879 ; the patient hoAvever survived only five days. In 1880, Rydygier repeated the operation, but the patient died in a Icav hours. In 1880, Billroth ])erformed the first successful operation. The patient Avas a Avoman aged 48, she made an uninterrupted recovery, and eat a mutton cutlet Avith the best aj)j)etite on the tAventieth day after the operation. The patient, howcA'cr, died four months after the operation from cancer of the peritoneum and retroperitoneal lymphatic glands. The operation has since been repeated in a considerable number of cases by Wblfler, X. Ydni- warter, and others, Avith a fair amount of success ; but the actual statistics have not yet been collected.