EARLY EXCISIOir IN IIIP-DISEASE. 463 suppuration are present, they recommend that an antiseptic exploratory incision lx‘ made into the joint, and the head of the femur examined ;—if found diseased, it should be removed by sawing through its neck. Should there be osseous disease beyond this in the acetabnlnm or in the femur, it must be cut away. Annandale is led to recommend early operation of the kind mentioned in those cases of hip-disease in which signs of suppuration exist, by the con- sideration that the head of the femur is usually carious in these cases, and that its early removal is likely to check the further 23rogress of the disease, and to leave the patient Avith a useful and movable limb. Early excision is required also in those cases in which the head of the femur is necrosed. This condition is not easy to recognize except by digital ex- amination of thelarticulation from the wound made in opening the abscess. It may be suspected to be present when the symptoms have set in with great Fig. 587.—Perlbration of the Pelvic Bones in Acetabular Coxalgia. Fig. 588.—Carious Head of Tliigli-bone in Acetabular Coxalgia. acuteness, and have rapidly reached the stage of supjuiration, this fonn of hip-disease being not unfrequently due to acute osteomyelitis of the epiphysis of the head or acute epiphysitis. If the sequestrum is loose it may be removed in some cases without any further portion of the bone. If it is still attached, the neck may be sawn through, and the head alone taken awa3^ When dislocation takes place early before the head has been extensively destroyed, giving rise to very marked flexion, adduction and rotation inwards, excision of the bone is often the only means by which the limb can be brought into good position, and in such cases it may be undertaken at an early period. In the Acetabular Pelvic form of coxalgia, the ultimate result is, I believe, inevitably fatal, if the disease be allowed to run its own course un- checked by operation. Large portions of the pelvic bones in and around the acetabulum—such as the tuber and i-amus of the ischium, the ramus of the pubes and the dorsum ilii—fall into a state of necrosis ; the cavity becomes perforated (Fig. .bH7) ; and the head of the tliigh-bone, still lying in it, becomes denuded of its cartilaginous investment, roughened and carious, as