8EFARAT10X OF tiEQUESTRUM. 291 Another course taken by necrosis, especially when it follows levers, may be best illustrated by briefly describing three typical cases. The first was a girl aged 14, who complained of persistent pain in the buttock after an attack of rlieumatic fever. A hard braAvny swelling gradually formed during the following year. It was aspirated but nothing was found, and fears Avere entertained that it might be a sarcoma. Some Aveeks after a feAV drops of pus escaped from the puncture, and on dilating the opening a small sequestrum, about the size of a thumb-nail, Avas found detached from the side of the pelvis. The second Avas a man aged about 35, A\dio complained of a sloAA'ly- growing tumour, about inches in diameter under the right nipple, that had appeared some months after typhoid fever. He Avas sent into University College HosjAital by an accomplished j)ractitioner as a case of scirrhus of the male breast, and came under the care of Marcus Beck. There Avas one small enlarged gland in the axilla, and there seemed no doubt about the diagnosis, but to avoid any possibility of error a deep incision Avas made into the growth, Avhich grated under the knife, and felt and looked like scirrhus. It Avas I accordingly removed, when a small cavity half an inch in diameter was found I beneath, containing some caseatiug granulation-tissue ; the finger passed I from this through the pectoralis major to a small sequestrum on the fifth rib. 1 The third case AA'as a girl, aged about 14, Avho was sent into the hospital for a tumom’, supposed to be an enchondroma, just beloAV the crest of the ilium. On cutting doAA’n on it it proved to be a chronic abscess Avith exceedingly thick Avails, containing a sequestrum about the size of a split pea which had I been separated from the ilimn. She had recently recovered from typhoid I feA'er. ( Separation of the Dead Bone and Formation of Provisional New il Bone.—The separation of the dead bone, or its Exfoliation, is carried out by a process precisely similar to the mode in Avhich a slough in soft tissues is ’• thrown off, the only difference being the time required. Karefying osteitis is ' set up in the living tissue Avhere it meets the dead. The details of this process ' have already been described (p. 255, Vol. I.). As the result of it a narrow zone of i: the living bone is destroyed, and its place occupied by soft Avascular granulation- i: tissue. This process goes on most rapidly in the most vascular parts; thus I we sec the gi’anulation-layer first completely formed near the periosteum and I medullary canal, and gi’adually advancing from these points till the dead bone t is completely separated from the living. If a bone in Avhich a sequestrum is 1 partly separated be macerated so as to destroy the granulation-tissue, a groove 1 about one-tAventieth to a quarter of an inch Avide Avill be seen. On the liAung S' side of this the bone is porous and its Haversian canals enlarged and gradually I coalescing. On the dead side the bone retains its normal compact structure. The line betAveen the dead and living is ahvrays extremely irregular. The granulation-tissue in contact Avith the dead bone yields a more or less abundant ‘ supply of pus, which, according to B. Cooper, may contain as much as 2^ per cent, of pdiosphate of lime. When the separation is complete the dead bone lies closely surrounded by vascular gi’anulation-tissue, and bathed in a certain quantity of pus. If the bone be decomposing and the discharge foetid, the pus will ])c increased in quantity in consequence of the irritation of the granulation- ti.ssne by the septic products. hen once the dead bone has been detached by the formation of this line of separation, nature takes steps for its ultimate removal from the body. There