I lOI FORCIBLE DILATATION OF STRICTURE. xjrineal abscess. A case of this kind occurred not long ago in University <lollegc Hospital. 8. Caustics.—In the treatment of stricture by caustics, two objects are ndeavonred to be attained ; the first is the destruction of the stricture ; the ► econd, the diminution of the sensibility of the surrounding mucous membrane, r 0 that the irritability and spasm of the canal may be lessened. The following ;«s the way in which the caustic is applied. A wax bougie, well oiled, is passed iUown to, but not through, the stricture ; the Surgeon then, with the thumb- taail, makes a notch on that portion of the instrument opposite to the meatus. Another bougie of similar length and size is then armed with a piece of potassa usa about the size of a small pin’s head, placed in a depression at its end. A mark is made on it, at a point corresponding to the notch on the |".irst bougie, and it is then passed rapidly down until this mark comes oppo- site to the meatus, and pressed firmly for two or three minutes against the 'Stricture, upon Avhich the caustic exercises its action. This application, which is followed by a gleety discharge, is to be repeated every second or third day until a bougie of proper size can be introduced ; and then the dilatation may ibe proceeded with in the usual way. This practice, stigmatized, not unjustly, by Liston as “ most atrocious,” has now but few advocates ; and, indeed, there •appears to be nothing useful effected by it, beyond what can be accomplished • much more safely and easily by a catheter or sound in an ordinarily skilful hand. 4. Forcible Expansion or Rupture.—Forcible and rapid dilatation causing the expansion and rupture of the stricture, is a method that, originally proposed and practised many years since by Luxmoor, Arnott, and Buchanan of Glasgow, has of late years been revived in principle, and ingeniously modi- fied in detail, by many Surgeons, amongst whom Reybard, Maisonneuve, Perreve, 'W’akley, Holt, Thompson, and Hill are the most conspicuous. How- ever varied the means by which strictures are thus treated, the instruments employed may be aiTanged in three groups : a. Those that act as sliding tubes ; h. Those that expand by a screw mechanism ; and c. Those that act on the principle of a wedge. a. Sliding Tubes were first employed in the treatment of stricture by Desault at the close of the last century, subsequently by various French Surgeons, and in later years by Hutton of Dublin, and very extensively and successfully by Wakley. The mode .of application of these tubes is as follows. A long con- ductor is introduced through the stricture into the bladder, and over this a catheter, either of gum or silver, is passed, which in its turn is made to serve as a conductor to a larger one. In Wakley’s instrument the conductor, or “ urethral guide,” consists of a small silver catheter, which, after being passed through the stricture, has a long steel rod screwed into it. Over this a silver tube is passed, which in its turn is made to serve as a conductor ; and thus the stricture may be rapidly dilated by passing one tube over another until a full size is reached. The only difficulty in this very ingenious method—which is, however, common to it and every other plan of treating stricture by dilatation —consists in the first introduction of the “urethral guide;” when that has once passed through the strictui-e, the tubes must follow as a matter of necessity. They cannot possibly go wrong ; and, as no laceration of the stricture is, or can be, effected by the instrument, it a[)pcars to be a f)cculiarly safe means of employing rapid dilatation when circumstances seem to require it.