i6 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SEIF. II On slicin'? ifc down Avith a scalpel, ifc Avill be found to be composed of soft, tough, and Avbite epidermis, arranged in tufts or small columns, in the centre of each of AAdiicli a minute black dot is perceptible. Each tuft appears to be an elongated and thickened papilla, and the black speck is a small point of coagulated blood Avhich has been eflused into it. Around the depression in which each of these corns is seated, the hardened cuticle forms a kind of Avail. The To'eatment of ordinary corns consists in shaving or rasping them doAvm so as to prevent the deep layers of cuticle, retained by the indurated super- ficial ones, from giving rise to pain by pressure on the papillaa of the cutis. The cuticle may be previously softened by dressing the toe Avith Avet lint covered with gutta-percha tissue. Eelief may be afforded also by removing all j)res8iire from bearing upon the corn, by attention to the shape of the shoe, and by wearing a piece of soft leather or of amadou, haAfing a hole cut in the centre into AAdiich the corn projects. A soft com between the toes is best treated by the application of tincture of belladonna after clearing aAvay the sodden epithelium Avith soap and water. It is well to avoid the application of caustics to ordinary corns ; injurious consequences being often produced by these agents, especially in elderly people, in whom fatal gangrenous inflanuna- tion may be excited by their action. The painful papillated corn of the sole of the foot is the only form to which an escharotic can be applied, and in this no other treatment is of any use. I have found the application of either fuming nitric acid or potassa fusa, so as to destroy it thoroughly, to be the best and speediest remedy; and as this corn always occurs in young people no danger attends their use. If a corn suppurate, it must be softened by Avater dressing and shaved doAvn, and the drop of pus let out by puncture Avith a lancet, when immediate relief from pain Avill result. If the pus is not thus let out it is unable to point through the indurated cuticle, and may burrow beneath the skin for some distance before finding an exit. In such case a troublesome sinus is left Avhich can sometimes be closed by the injection of stimulating lotions, or by passing a seton of two silk threads through it, but more often laying it open is the only efficient treatment. Perforating Ulcer op the Foot.—This, though not in reality a disease of the skin, is perhaps most conveniently considered here. The disease seems usually to commence by a corn situated on the sole of the foot opposite the head of one of the metatarsal bones, usually the first. This, in some cases apparently as the result of some injury, becomes inflamed and suppurates^ and a sinus is left opening through the thickened cuticle. If a probe be passed^ into this it will be found to lead to dry and bare bone on one of the phalangeal or metatarsal bones. The discharge is scanty and scarcely purulent. The ulceration may extend, forming a sore an inch or more in diameter. This is covered by feeble or unhealthy granulations. The disease is painless, and on further examination the foot Avill be found to be more or less Avidely amesthe- tic. The amesthesia may extend up the leg, but it is never associated AAith motor paralysis. The tendency of the disease is sloAvly to extend, causing further destruction of the bones and possibly completely perforating the foot. The foot is cold, and in most cases is jirone to SAveat profusely, the perspira- tion being A’cry offensiA^e. Both feet may be affected, and a similar disease has been seen in the hand. Michaud, Sonnenburg, Duplay, and more lately SaAmry and Butliu, have \ f I i i ;