262 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. before the advancing cells as are the soft tissues in the formation of an abscess- cavity, or innlceration of the skin. When recovery takes place the inflammatory products develop into bone instead of into fibrous tissue as in the soft parts. The compact tissue is liable also to chronic inflammatory affections of the same type as those leading to fibroid induration of the soft parts, but in bone the product of the process is new osseous tissue which develops in the Haver- sian canals, gradually narrowing them, and rendering the texture more dense than natural. The inflammatory processes observed in compact bone are the following :— (1.) Rarefying or rarefactive osteitis ; (2.) Osteoplastic or condensing osteitis; and (3) Necrosis. Karefying or Rarefactive Osteitis.—This may occur as a secondary elfect of inflammation commencing in the periosteum or in the medulla. It is observed also as the result of injury, as in a piece of bone denuded of its periosteum, or on each side of a fracture. In many cases its original cause is very obscure. A portion of compact bone undergoing this change is in the earliest stages observed to be slightly redder than natural; the openings of the Haversian canals after a time become somewhat increased in size, and consequently a larger number are visible to the naked eye. As the process advances the Haversian canals increase at the expense of the solid bone smTounding them, and when they reach a sufficient size they can be seen to contain a small quantity of pink granulation-tissue surrounding the vessel. If a portion of the bone at this stage be macerated it presents a porous spongy appearance, almost resembling cancellous tissue. If the process advance still further, as in the separation of a piece of dead bone, the neighbouring enlarged Haversian canals coalesce, the solid osseous tissue disappearing entirely, and a soft mass of granulation tissue fills the space once occupied by solid bone. The super- ficial layers of the granulation tissue may break doAvn into pus under the same conditions that give rise to suppuration elsewhere, or, should the process cease, the new tissue develops into bone by the same process as in osteo- , plastic periostitis, the new osseous tissue being first formed in connection with ' the old. i The rarefying osteitis maybe limited to a small portion of the bone as in the j separation of a sequestrum, or may be diffused over a wide area. In the latter j case it is more chronic, and, although rendering the bone more porous than | natural, rarely leads to its complete destruction for any great extent. j Microscopic examination of a piece of bone affected by rarefymg osteitis shows the following appearances. In the earliest stage the vessels are dis- tended with blood and numerous cells, probably migrated leucocytes, are found in the delicate connective tissue contained in the Haversian canal. In a more advanced stage these cells are greatly increased in number, and the wall of the canal is seen to have been consumed away before them. The destruction of the osseous tissue takes place irregularly in excavated crescentic hollows, first described by Howship, and consequently named Hoiuship's ImuimF A large number of these will be found to be filled by cells of considerable size containing several nuclei, each cell corresponding to a lacuna. These many-nucleated cells are found wherever bone is being destroyed, whether from inflammation or in a physiological process, as the development of the medullary canal, and they are supposed to play some important pai’t in the ah-