665 GASTROSTOMY. it is advisable, tlierefore, to make the incision as far to the left as can conveniently be done. Scdillot divided the abdominal wall by a crucial incision, each limb of which was about an inch and a half in len^’th. Further experience has shown that so large an incision is not necessary. Ijabbe recommends an incision about an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half in length, parallel to the left costal cartilages, and one finger’s breadth from their borders, terminating below at an imaginary line drawn between the most prominent points of the convexities of the two ninth cartilages. This incision will be found to divide a few fibres of the external oblique and notch the edge of the rectus ; beneath this is the e.xpansion from the internal oblique and the upper fibres of the transversal!s, under which lie the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. Howse prefers a vertical incision at about the same level, passing through the outer fibres of the rectus, which will afterwards exert a sphincter-like action on the opening. In whichever way the abdominal wall is divided, all bleeding must be carefully arrested before the peritoneal cavity is opened. On dividing the peritoneum the stomach may present at the wound, and may be grasped with the fingers and drawn out. If it is not at once seen the finger must be introduced and the lower border of the liver felt for immediately, below which will be the stomach. When the stomach is felt, it may be drawn up into the wound by the fingei’S, if possible, if not, by a pair of ring-forceps ; vulsellum-forceps must on no account be used. If the omentum presents in the wound, it should be drawn gently downwards until the stomach comes into view. The only viscus which can be mistaken for the stomach is the transverse colon, the left end of which immediately before the sphenic curvature may present in the wound. The stomach can be recog- nized by the thickness of its walls and the extent and smoothness of its surface. The next step is to secine it to the opening. This is best done by carbolized silk sutures passed through the serous and muscular coat only. This is easily accomplished by gently pinching the coats of the stomach between the finger and thumb, when the mucous coat will be felt to slip away, leaving the other two in the grasp of the fingers. The stitches must be passed first through a good thick piece of the stomach, then through the peritoneum, which should be drawn a little forward by forceps, and then through the skin and fat, missing the muscular tissue of the abdominal wall. In this way the serous surfaces will be brought very accurately in contact. All the stitches must be.passed before any are tightened; they must be not more than one-sixth of an inch apart, and must be so arranged as to enclose a circular area of the stomach wall about the size of a shilling. Finally the stitches are tightened and the wound dressed, with proper attention to the prevention of decomposition. The patient must be nourished for the next four or, if possible, five days by nutritive enemata. By that time the stomach will have fonned firm adhesions, and may be safely opened. This is done by passing a nannw scalpel through the adherent portion of the stomach, and making an opening large enough to admit a No. lo catheter, into which an fndia-rublxjr tube, fitted with a shield or a small tracheotomy tube, may be passed ; the orifice of which may be closed with a cork. At first only milk or pancreatized food should be introduced, but, as the stomach becomes stronger, minced meat, bread, and other food may bo used. The chief danger of the operation is peritonitis, hut the risk of this has been verj' greatly diminished, first l)y the adoj)tion of the method of operating