DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 412 CHAPTER L. ——4 DISEASES ’ OF THE SPINE. SPINA BIFIDA. It occasionally happens that, from congenital malformation consequent on arrest of development, the spinous processes of some of the vertehrm are defi- cient, and their laminae either absent or separated ; the meninges of the spinal cord are thus unprotected, and project through the aperture in the bones,, giving rise to a tumour at the part where the aiTest of development in the ; osseous structures occurs. : Characters.—The tumour in spina bifida is usually oval, its long axisj corresponding with that of the spine. It varies in size, from that of a walnut to an orange ; but occasionally it attains an immense bulk, equal to that of a | child’s head. In some cases the tumour is lobulated, having an imperfect septum stretching across it; in other instances, two or more distinct tumours have been met with in the spine. The skin covering it is usually of normal colour ; but when the tumour is of considerable size, it may be thin and have a bluish or congested appearance, and present a certain degree of transparency. In these circumstances, ulceration from distension and thin-1 i ning of the skin may eventually take place. On examining the tumour, which is hard, though elastic when the child is held upright, it will be founc that it becomes soft when the child is laid horizontally. It sometimes becomes tense during expiration, and softer during inspiration. Fluctuation is usually perceptible, and by pressure the bulk may in some cases be distinctly lessened, while at the same time increased tension may be recognized at the anterior fontanelle, thus demonstrating the connection of the sac with the subarach- noid space. The wall of the sac in spina bifida is composed of the whole of the mem- branes of the cord fused together. They are covered by the skin and a vary- ing amount of fat. Sometimes the skin is apparently wanting, or is thinned and fused with the membranes so as to be no longer recognizable. Spina bifida may be met with in any part of the vertebral column ; it is, however, almost invariably found in the lumbar or lumbo-sacral region, this ■ part of the spinal canal being the last to close in foetal life. The cases ir which it appears higher up are of rare occurrence; instances of the kind are, however, mentioned by Cruveilhier. When it occurs in the cer'vfical or dorsa region the spinal cord is'most frequently adherent to the posterior wall of th( tumour. In the lumbar region this is less common, though as the malfonna^ tion takes place at a compamtively early period of foetal life when the core reaches to the fourth lumbar vertebra, it is not impossible for it to lie in the sac The spinal nerves in the great majority of cases project in long loops into th( sac adhering to its walls for some distance and then returning to the inter vertebral foramina. 'i-: