DISEASE}^ OF ARTERIES. 92 teritis Proliferans or Hyperplastic Endarteritis (V. Winiwarter).— Under these names have been described certain rare cases in whicli obliteration of arteries takes place as the result of inflammatory changes in tlieir coats, not evidently dependent on syphilis, embolism or injury. The disease runs a chronic course, and may cause spontaneous gangrene of the parts supplied by the aliected vessel. The symptoms will perhaps be best illustrated by quoting a typical case lately recorded by Pearce Gould. The patient was a brick- maker, aged 19. In May, 1888, the fingers of his right hand became con- gested aiul sometimes dead white, Avith much sickening pain. After a few Aveeks’ rest he improved, but soon relapsed on returning to AA'ork, After some months the pain extended into the forearm, and completely incapacitated him from Avorking. He came under Gould’s observation in October, 1888. At that time the right forearm and hand Avere cold and someAvhat Avasted, and he suffered much pain, especially at night. The brachial artery Avas harder than natural, and pulsated more feebly than that on the opposite side. The radial could be felt as a solid cord. There Avas dry gangrene of the tips of three fingers. Ho constitutional affection Avas found to account for the condition. Tavo AA'Ceks afterwards the pain increased till it became agonizing, requiring hypodermic injections of morphia for its relief. At this time there was slight elevation of temperature. The brachial artery then became coiwcrted into a pulseless cord to Avithin one inch of the teres major. Soon after, the sub- claAdan artery was found to be prominent. In December the pain gradually subsided, and one month after he Avas apparently well. The brachial artery remained a solid cord, and the first joint of the thumb and of the index finger separated after becoming mummified {vide Trans. Clin. Soc. 1884). A some- what similar case occurring in a female, aged 35, is recorded by W. B. Hadden in the same volume. The pathology and causes of this rare affection is still uncertain. It commonly occurs about middle life, Gould’s case being the youngest recorded. The disease described by V. Winiwarter under the name of endarteritis proliferans is probably of the same nature. He states that it occurs in persons apparently healthy in other respects, and gives rise to spontaneous gangrene usually of the foot. In one case in which the vessels Avere examined after amj)utation of the limb the obliteration was found to be the result of a great proliferation of the endothelium, narroAving of the lumen of the vessel, the final obliteration being brought about by thrombosis. Hew A’essels Averc found penetrating from the outer coat into the proliferating endothelium Avhich Avith the thrombus Avas found in the older parts to be undergoing changes similar to those already described as occuiring in closure of an artery after ligature. Billroth states that the disease is preceded by feebleness of circulation, and obscure pain, often lasting for months or years. There is no definite treatment for these cases. Periarteritis.—By periarteritis is meant an inflammation commencing in the outer coat or sheath of the arteiy. If Ave exclude arteritis by extension from surrounding tissues and traumatic arteritis, periarteritis is a rare disease. Charcot and Bouchard have described such an affection in the vessels of the brain, commencing as an accumulation of small round cells in the perivascular sheaths ; these penetrate the coats from Avithout and lead to softening, fre- (|uently folloAved by the formation of minute aneurisms and final rupture. H is a senile disease, and according to Cliarcot a common cause of apoplexy.