GONORRIKEA, f loGij readily relieved by antiphlogistic treatment, cup])ing or leeches to the i.:rina3um, the warm hip-bath, and salines, with, perhaps, opiate suppositories, t’ d plenty of demulcent drinks. The catheter should not be iLsed in these , i'«es, if it be possible to give relief without it. ; GONORRHCEA. |i : ^. Gonorrhoea is a specific disease, accompanied by inflammation and an abun- I.nt muco-purulcnt discharge ; affecting the urethra most commonly, but also e other mucous membranes of the genital organs, as of the prepuce and the ans in the male, and of the vulva and vagina in the female. The urethra is the usual seat of gonorrhoea in the male ; and the disease ay be looked on as an infectious urethritis. Its seat of greatest intensity is mally the fossa navicularis; but it may extend over a much greater surface, ifecting the entire length of the canal, and even the whole mucous lining of le bladder. In the female it commonly spreads over the extensive mucous Lrface of the external organs of generation, and sometimes invades the uterus id Fallopian tubes. Cause.—Gonorrhoea has its origin in the female, and is possibly developed I novo in prostitutes, that is, without infection from the male. It is a highly ifective inflammation of the mucous membrane of the vagina generated by le decomposition of retained semen and of foul discharges, the result of ipeated acts of indiscriminate intercourse withont proper attention to cleanli- 3SS. It is impossible to say where urethritis or vaginitis ends, and infective ^norrhcca begins. In the male, gonorrhoea arises in all cases from the appli- ition of a peculiar animal poison, generated in the female by impure or indis- iminate sexual intercourse, to the parts which it attacks, and must not be infounded with the various non-specific inflammatory diseases that may affect te parts commonly the seat of gonoiThcea, and which are all characterized by uco-puiTilent discharges. The poison of gonorrhoea diffem entirely from those of the ^^enereal diseases jscriljed in Chapter XXXVI., as has been fully proved by the unerring test inoculation ; these diseases not being capable of reproducing one another , any circumstances. The actual nature of the virus has not been certainly certained. The pus from gonorrhoea always contains micrococci, and it has :en maintained by Xeisser, Bokai, Bockhart, and others, that this organism the actual viims. Bokai’ inoculated six students with the organism, which id been cultivated in suitable fluids, and in three gonorrhoea followed. Bock- irt also successfully inoculated the organism in the m’ethra of a man after it id been cultivated to four generations in prepared gelatine. It seems obable, therefore, that the “ gonococcus,” as it has been termed, is either e actual virus or in some way connected with its development. The suppurative inflammation which is characteristic of gonorrhoea has ese peculiarities ; 1. It has a distinct and lengthened period of incu- .tion ; 2. It rapidly propagates itself along the mucous tracts that it affects; It is contagious in the highest degree not only when the pus is applied , and, as it were, rublxjd into the mucous surfaces of the generative organs iring coitus, but when it simply touches other mucous surfaces ; and 4. It, sometimes attended by remote constitutional phenomena partaking of a aemic character.