764 HERNIA. throuoh -wliicli ifc protrudes‘being- irregiiliir and wide. 3. Tlie inargiim of the aperture in an old lici'iiia are more rounded tliaii iu one of reeent formation. 4. Recent liernim arc intestinal, not omental. 5. They are readily reducible: whilst old hernim arc frequently irreducible in whole or iu part and omental. (). After reduction the sac of a recent hernia when rolled between the fingers Avill feel thinner and softer than that of an. old one, 7. Strangulation may occur at the moment of protrusion of a hernia. Hence, although more frequent iu old than in recent herniae, its existence does not prove the hernia to be old. 5. .In old hernim, if the patient has worn a truss, there will usually be signs of pressure, or of chafing of the skin. Though such signs may be effaced by friction Avitli the hands. ArpLiCATiO]sr of Truss.—In the Treatment of a reducible hernia, our object is, by the application of a proper truss, to retain the protrusion within the cavity of the abdomen. In order to do this, the patient must be provided with a proper kind of truss, adapted to the particular nature of the hernia. In umbilical and ventrahruptures, an elastic pad and belt may most con- veniently be used. In selecting the truss, care should be taken that the spring be of proper strength, adapted to the size and poAver of the indiAudual; and that it be properly shaped, so that it does not touch any part of the abdominal wall, but merely bears upon the points of j)ressure and counter- pressure. The pad should be couA'ex, firmly stuffed, and of sufficient size to j)ress, not only upon the external aperture, but upon the whole length of the canal. Before applying the truss, the hernia must be reduced, by placing the patient in the recumbent position, relaxing the muscles by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, and pressing the tumour back in the jDroper direction ; the truss should then be put on, and be Avorn during the whole of the day ; indeed, the patient should never be alloAved to stand Avithout Avearing it. At night, ii may either be left off altogether, or a lighter one apiffied. The patient should be provided with a “ bathing ” truss, that is, a truss covered AAuth india-rubber, so as to resist the action of the water. It is Avell that the ordinary truss be covered with linen, so that the leather may be kept clean, and unstained by perspiration and the spring free from rust. In some cases, the skin becomes irritated by the pressure of the pad ; in these circumstances, an elastic air- cushion may be used, or the parts subjected to pressure may be well washed AAuth spirit-lotion. The truss may be known to fit by testing it in the follow- ing way. The patient should be made to sit down on the edge of a chair, and then, extending his legs, opening them Avidely, and bending the body forwards, cough several times. If the hernia do not noAV slip down behind the pad, we may be sure that the truss is efficient, and will keep the rupture up in all ordinary circumstances. It is the Sm’geon’s duty to tell the instrument-maker AA’hat form of truss is required, and to see that the instrument supplied fulfils its object. It is always better for the instrument-maker to see the patient and measure him for the tinss, but in country practice this is often impossible, and the Surgeon must then measure the patient himself and order the required instrument. The most important measurement is the circumference of the pelvis taken mid-AAay between the crest of the ilium and the trochanter major. Most instrument- makers say that this is all they require ; but to insure accuracy, it is better to send also the exact measurement in the line in which the truss A\ill lie, com mencing at the centre of the ring, and ])assing round the jjelvis mid-way