BESULTS OF FXCISIOE OF KNEE. 397 ■I • I 11 •ii R a s A !i fJ >Q J4 i antiseptic treatment, of these, 7 died directly from tlie operation ; 23 were treated by antiseptic methods involving* frequent change of dressing, and of these 2 died; the remaining 48 cases were treated by the lasting antiseptic dress- ing, and of these only 1 died, from hmmophilia. Of the !)2 cases, 14 underwent subsequent amputation. Sack of Dorpat, in 1880, published the results of 144 cases treated antiseptically by various Surgeons; of these, 25 or 17*3 per cent, died ; 4 from infective processes in the wound, 13 from tuberculosis and other general diseases existing before the operation, 1 from chloroform, and 1 from carbolic-acid-poisoning, 2 from causes unconnected with the operation, and 4 from causes not stated. Of the 119 who survived, 11 underwent subsequent amputation, making exactly 75 per cent, of successes and 25 per cent, of failm*es. 2. The second point that has to be determined, is as to the Utility of the Limb after the Operation. On this point, the result of recorded cases is in favour of the operation. In one of Park’s cases, operated on in 1783, that Surgeon states that the patient (a sailor), seven years after the operation, “was able to go aloft with consider- able agility, and to perform all the duties of a seaman.” In some of the latter cases the result has been equally good. One of Jones’s patients (a boy) “ could nm and walk quickly without any aid of a stick, could stand on the limb alone, and pirouetted and hopped two or three yards without putting the sound limb to the gromid.” In several of my own cases an excellent, strong and straight limb has been left, useful for all ordinary purposes. In a case which I examined seven years after the operation, the limb was well nourished, straight, firmly ankylosed, and but very little shortened. The patient, a lad of twenty, could walk eight or ten miles, and even jump and stand on the limb without the least pain, sign of weakness, or difficulty. In very yoimg children the result of the operation is not satisfactory, the leg continuing shortened and wasted, not developing with the rest of the body. This is appa- rently due to and dependent upon the removal of the epiphysis of the tibia, on the integrity of which the growth of that bone is dependent. After the operation, osseous ankylosis takes place with a firm cicatrix ; the limb is shortened from one to three inches, according to the amount of bone removed, but by means of a high-heeled shoe this inconvenience is greatly remedied. It has been urged against excision of the knee-joint, that convales- cence is tedious and prolonged ; but this argument can with justice have but little weight. If a useful limb can be preserved to the patient, it can matter but little if a few additional weeks be devoted to the procedure by which it is obtained ; and, indeed, it is a question whether in many cases the patient may not be able to walk just as soon after the excision of the knee-joint as after amputation of the thigh ; for, as has been very properly remarked, though the •amputation-wound may be healed in three or four weeks, it may be as many months before an artificial limb can be worn. On the whole from the evidence before us, it may be concluded that in properly selected cases excision is preferable to amputation, as involving less mutilation and but little more risk. In the statistics collected by Sack above Muoted, 13 out of 25 deaths arose from visceral disease existing before the operation. Tf these cases had been submitted to amputation probably many of them would have recovered, and the death-rate of the excisions would have been reduced to under 10 per cent. The operation should not be put off too