CONTENTS. XYl ?^r0XB IN’ THE BTjADDEK—Structure of Culculi—Oriji^iii—Number—Kj)outancous Nraeturc—Physical Characters— Size—Weight—Hardness—Shape—Position- Causes—Age—Sex—Geographical llistributioii — Symptoms — Pain—Increased Prequciicy of Micturition—Stoppage of Flow of Urine—Stone in Elderly Men— Stone in Children—Encysted Calculus—Physical Diagnosis of Stone—Sounding Bladder—Errors in Sounding—Examination by Manipulation—Stone in Women —Pathological Changes induced by Calculus 1)3(>—D17 1^ithoto:my—Instruments—Preparation of Patient.—Laxeeal Operation—Stages —Position of Knife—Incision of Prostate—Extraction of Stone—Lithotomc for Lateral Lithotomy—After-Treatment of Lithotomy—Lateral Lithotomy in Boys —Difficulties during Lithotomy—In Finding Stone—In Entering Bladder—in Seizing and Extracting Stone—From Position of Stone—From Fixture of Stone —From Fibroid Tumours in Prostate—From Kickets of Pelvie Bones—From Shape and Size of Stone—Ilemoval of Large Stone—Incision of Eight Side of Prostate—Crushing Calculus in Bladder—Difficult}’’ from Fracture of Stone— xiccidents during Lithotomy—Haemorrhage—Wound of Bulb—Missing the Urethra—Wound of Eectum—Wound of Posterior Part of Bladder—Difficulties in Children—Sources of Danger and causes of Death after Lithotomy—Statistics of Mortality—Influence of Age—Of Shock—State of Kidneys—Prolonged Operation—Haemorrhage—Cystitis—Diffuse Inflammation of Areolar Tissue of Pelvis—From Cutting beyond Prostate—From Bruising and Over-Distension— Peritonitis—Sloughing—Pyaemia and Septicaemia—Other Methods of Performing Lithotomy.—Median Lithotomy—History—Operation—Comparison between Median and Lateral Operations—General Base and Simplicity—Haemorrhage— Wound of Bulb—Wound of Eectum—Treatment of Prostate—Manipulation of Forceps and Extraction of Stone—Indications for Median Operation.—Bl- EATEEAL LITHOTOMY. — MeDIO-BILATERAL OPERATION.—EeCTO-VESICAL Lithotomy.—High or Suprapubic Operation 947—088 Chaptee LXIX.—Urinaky Calculus {continued). Lithoteity—History—Lithotrity as Practised before 1878—Instruments—Prepara- tion of Patient—Anaasthetics—Operation—Introduction of Lithotritc—Seizui-e of Stone—Breaking Stone—Lithotrity subsequently to 1878—Bigelow’s Opera- tion—Accidents in Lithrotity—Impaction of Angular Fragments in Urethra— Chronic Enlargement of Prostate—Dangers in Lithotrity—Cystitis—Atony of Bladder—Disease of Kidneys—Constitutional Disturbance—Perineal Lithotrity —Eesults—Applicability 989—lOM Comparison between Lithotomy and Lithotrity—Statistics—Circumstances determining Selection—Age—Size and Character of Stone—Conditions of Urinary Organs—Choice of Operation of Lithotomy—Eesult of Operations for Stone— Recurrence of Calculus after Operation—Treatment 1010—1019 Urethral Calculus—^Symptoms—Treatment—Impaction of Calculus in Urethm of Boys 1019—1021 pROSTATiC Calculus—Charactcus—Symptoms—Treatment . . . . 1021—1022 Calculus in the Female—Statistics—Symptoms—Removal—Lithectasy—Simple Dilatation — Dilatation with Incision — Lithotomy —. Suprapubic — Urethral— Vaginal—Lithotrity in the Female 1022—1020 Chapter LXX.—Diseases of the Bladder. Congenital Malformation — Extroversion — Treatment—Ayre’s Operation— Wood’s Operation. 1027—10:K) Cystitis — Acute — Termination — Treatment — Chronic Cy.stitis — Pathological Changes— Symptoms — Treatment—Irritable Bladder— Causes — Diagnosis— Treatment—Cystotomy—Irritable Bladder in Boys—In Women . . 1030—1038