493 SIGNS OF LATERAL CURVATURE. eye in reading, is a common cause of round shoulders, and in more extreme degrees of kyphosis. _ . , Signs of Lateral Curvature.—The signs of this affection, when it is well marked, are distinctly obvious. The serpentine character of the curve, its double nature, the convexity on one side usually looking to the right shoulder, and on the other to the left loin, will render its nature evident. Most com- monly it commences in a gradual manner, the first condition that attracts attention being the prominence of the right scapula, which is supposed to be “ oTowiiio- out ; ” or the sterno-clavicular articulation on the same side, or some of the cartilages of the ribs, have been observed to project. Whenever the Surgeon is consulted for such symptoms, he should at once examine the spine, which he will gene- rally find to have an inclination to the right side. In the early stages of the disease, when the de\nation is not very distinctly marked, the readiest mode of determining it is to let the patient stand upright, taking care that the feet are well placed together, and that the attitnde is not forced but natural; the Surgeon should then run his finger down the back from one spinous process to another, touching each as he passes it with a pen dipped in ink ; in this way, when he has reached the lower part, he will have mapped out the course of the vertebral column, and thus may see at a glance the nature and extent of its displace- ment. At the same time, he will probably observe that the two hips do not exactly correspond, the left being somewhat thrown out. Yery commonly there is a good deal of neuralgic tenderness about the spine, consti- tuting the ordinary irritable or hysterical spine, and at this early stage there may be amemia and symptoms of impaired nutrition. As the disease advances, the curvature becomes more marked, and at the same time, owing to torsion of the column, assumes a slightly angular character where most convex. The ribs on the right side are thrown out and bulging, and carry up the scapula with them, whilst those on the left are sunk and de- pressed (Fig. G14). • In fact, the whole of the right side of the chest and body partakes in the projection of the spine on that side, and thus adds much to the general deformity ; whilst the left side of the chest is correspondingly hollowed and sunk in. When the disease has advanced to this stage, general debility, emaciation, and pallor come on; the nutrition of the body being impaired, partly by the compression to which the thoracic and abdominal organs are subjected, and partly, doubtless, by irritation of the siiinal cord induced by the curvature. During the early part of the disease, the spine preserves its flexibility ; and whilst the cuiwe is still recent, and the patient young, if the weight of the head and shoulders be taken off, it will at once resume its straight direction. Thus, if the patient be lifted off the ground by raising her up with the hands Fig. 614.—Lateral Curvature of Spine.