109 PRESSURE-EFFECTS. thus aneurism of the aorta has been known to perforate and communicate with the pulmonary artery. By its pressure upon neighbouring nerves, an ■iiueurismal sac may give rise either to great pain in the part supplied hy them, or to disturbance of their function ; the nerves themselves becoming, in some cases, expanded or flattened out, and ribbon-like (Fig. 44(5), and in other instances tortuous and wavy, being considerably elongated. The pain in the nerves is often one of the earliest signs of the existence of an aneurism. The pain is usually of two kinds : it is either lancinating and radiating along the course of the nerve that is compressed ; or, when the tumour presses severely upon neighbouring parts and tissues, more especially if it give rise to erosion of the bones (as in Fig. 445), an aching, burning, tearing, or boring sensation is often experienced in the .part subjected to the pressure. In other cases, again, important modifications in the function of parts take place, in consequence of the pressure that is exercised upon their nerves. Thus, for instance, the compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve will occasion hoarseness of voice and difficulty of breathing, depending on spasm or paralysis of the abductors of the vocal cords. On the hones an aneurism may produce very important effects by its pressure, often eroding deeply the osseous tissue. If the bone be a flat one, as the sternum, the aneurism may perforate it by making as smooth and round a hole in it as if this had been worked by the trephine. Glandular organs and their duds in the neighbourhood of aneurisms suffer the most injurious effects from the pressiu’e of these tumours, their func- tions being arrested, and the passage of their secretions interfered with; so, also, by the pressure exercised on • the trachea and oesophagus, respiration and deglutition may be seriously impeded. XuxBER.—Aneurisms, though usually single, are not very unfrequently multiple. There may be more than one tumour of this kind in the same limb; thus the iliac and femoral arteries on the same side may both lx; affected. In other cases, corresponding arteries in opposite limbs arc tlie seat of aneurism; thus the two popliteals are not unfrequently found to be the seat of this disease, and occasionally an aneurism may exist in one of the limbs, and others in the arteries of the interior of the body. Numerous aneurismal tumoui-s are at times met Avith in the same person ; thus, Pelletan records a case in Avhich no fcAver than sixty-five AA'ere observed. Duration.—The duration of an aneurism varies A^erv greatlv. In youns; full-blooded persons it often makes progi’css Avith great rapidity ; Avhereas in elderly people of feeble constitutions, in Avhom it is accompanied Avith more or less debility of the heart’s action, the disease may assume a A^ry chronic fonn ; thus, Hodgson relates the case of an aneurism of the femoral artery of ' twenty years’ duration. Much also will depend on the situation of the aneurism, the size of the mouth of the sac, and the relation of the sac to the impulse of the blood into it ; the larger and more direct the mouth of the Fig. 44G.—Flattening and .stretching of Posterior Tibial Nerve by ])ressure of an Aneurism of the Calf.