584 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APFENDAOES. fluctuation that may, after a time, be detected, more particularly towards the outer side of the swelliuj*-, and at the junction of the nmcous membrane of the cheek and the gum, will enable theSui-geon to determine that it is not solid. But in many cases that is not sulficient; and it becomes necessaiy to make an exploratory puncture by means of the perforator, through one or other of the more thinned and expanded parts already indicated. This should never be omitted in cases of doubt : for it has happened even to so good a Surgeon as Gensoul that, after making incisions through the cheek with the view’ of ex- tirpatiug the tumour, the bones w'^ere found to be expanded by an antral abscess, and that, consequently, the operation had been undertaken unnecessarily. 2. In determining -whether the growth be simjjh or maUgnant, the Surgeon will experience much difficulty, so long as it is confined to the cavity of the antrum ; but when once it has f>erforated and passed beyond its wnlls, this point is easily solved. Yet, even whilst the tumour is still confined w’ithin the antrum, much light may be throwm upon its nature by attention to the rapidity of its growth ; the greater this is, the more reason there is to suspect that it is malignant. Too much importance, how’ever, must not be attached to this sign ; for though, as a general rule, fibrous, cartilaginous, and bony tumours may increase less rapidly than the malignant, yet they may attain a very great bulk in a short space of time. The age of the patient is of comparatively little value in the diagnosis ; T think, however, that, as a general rule, simple tumours more frequently occur in the young, whilst the malignant fonns of the affection are more commonly met with at the middle or advanced periods of life. It is of much importance, in a diagnostic point of view, to examine the condition of the submaxillary glands. AVhen the disease is malignant, they often become enlarged and indurated at an early period. In a case under my care, the malignant character of a tumour, wdiilst still in the antrum, was determined by the fact of there being a long chain of indurated lymphatic glands lying under the angle of the lower jaw, where they had become second- arily affected by absorption, before the bone had been perforated by the growth. It must be remembered, however, that many of the sarcomata, which run an essentially malignant course, infiltrating surrounding parts and recim- ring in internal organs, may at no time affect the lymphatic glands. hen once a malignant tumour has passed beyond the cavity of the antrum, and is thus relieved from the pressure of its w’alls, it grows w'ith great rapidity, and where it can be felt under the skin, is perceived to be soft and elastic. In- sinuating itself extensively amongst the bones of the face and skull, it creeps through the foramina and fissures, and encroaches greatly on the nasal cavity and orbit ; its early protrusion into these cavities is especially characteristic of malignancy. It implicates the integuments of the cheek, -with an inflammatory oedema, and the soft structures -nuthin the mouth, and throws out spouting masses in these several situations, which present all the characters of the true malignant fungus. 3. A point of very great importance in relation to operative interference is to determine the, primary seat of the tumour; wffiether it spring from the cavity of the antrum, from the malar bone, or from behind the superior maxilla in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. AVhen it springs from the mterior of the antrum, the buccal, orbital, nasal, or palatal walls of that cavity are expanded, and the line of teeth is rendered irregular. AVhen the tumour primarily springs from the malar lone (Fig. G78), it pushes forward the check into a somewhat