694 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TURE AND CHEST. consideraLle number of eases, that it is worn witli iniieli greater comfort to the patient than a rigid tube. R. W. Parker has pointed out that the ulceration caused by the point of the cannula is in great measure due to the fact that the ordinary quai'ter- circle tubes do not correspond with tlie natural direction bf the trachea; be has therefore devised an angular tube to overcome this difficulty. It is fitted Avith the movable collar invented by Roger of Paris, which will be found to be more comfortable to the patient than a rigid shield. Tracheotomy in Children is never easy, and is at times a dangerous operation. The difficulty of the operation arises more particularly in infants and very young children from the shortness of the neck, and the depth and small size of the trachea. Before the age of puberty, this tube is usually thickly covered by a quantity of loose granular fat, containing many veins, and is of small size, so that a slight deviation of the incision to one side may readily lead the Surgeon astray, and into dangerous proximity with the carotid arteries. The danger of the operation results from the large size of the venous plexuses in connection with the thyi-oid body. In performing this operation in young subjects, chloroform should always be administered. This may be done with safety, even though the most urgent asphyxia be present; the difficulty of respiration, being in a great measure spasmodic, is relieved by the anmsthetic. If chloroform be not given, the struggles of the child will seriously embarrass the operator. The dangers and difficulties of the operatioii are avoided only by attention to the advice already given, to keep accurately to the middle line, to avoid operating too high, mistaking the hyoid bone for the pomum Adami, to make a free enough incision, and above all to avoid needless hurry in cases in which asphyxia is not imminent, and to do the operation by a careful process of dissection, rather than by irregular tearing with blunt instruments. Comparison of Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy.—On comparing tracheotomy, as ordinarily performed, with laryngotomy, I think there can be little doubt that the Surgeon should give the preference, in all cases where it is practicable, to the latter operation, on account of its greater simplicity, safety, and rapidity. When the windpipe is to be opened for the extraction of a foreign body, tracheotomy should be performed in preference to laryugo- tomy, as the latter operation does not provide a sufficient opening for its expulsion or extraction. In children the larynx is so little developed, that tracheotomy must always be done. In all cases in which the obstruction to respiration is produced by inflammatory effusion into the submucous areolar tissue, or oedema glottidis, whether dependent upon idiopathic or erysipelatous laryngitis, or chronic disease of the larynx, or upon the irritation and inflam- mation excited by swalloAving boiling water or the stronger acids, in my opinion, laryngotomy is the operation that should be preferred in the adult; and this opinion is based on the following reasons. 1. As in laryngotomy the air-tube is always opened below the scat of obstruc- tion, there can be no necessity to make an aperture farther from the seat of disease. In laryngitis, whether that affection assume the acute or the chronic character, the obstruction to breathing is in a great measure mechanical, and depends upon the infiltration of the submucous areolar tissue of the laruix, and partly of the large plane of this tissue, which lies behind the laiqnx, and which, by expanding, as it were, into the pharynx, obstructs deglu