891 TERMIXATIOXS AND DJAdNOSJS OF FILES. si In that form of fistula in whicii the aperture is near the anus, one or more external piles of small size are often found situated at the orifice of the fistula ; and prolapsus rarely, if ever, is met with in adults, without the simultaneous occurrenee of piles. Terminations.—Hiemorrhoidal tumours may terminate by Subsidence, ^.'oaf^ulation. Suppuration, or Sphacelus. Subsidence.—Complete subsidence of a pile can take place only when the disease is of recent occurrence. When of long standing, and after it has been exposed to successive attacks of inflammation and turgescence, an external pile never subsides completely; and the areolar tissue and the muco-cutaneous •structures, becoming hypertrophied, form elongated pendulous flaps around the margin of the anus. Coagvilation of the contents of the pile is the result of inflammation having taken place in it. When it takes place, the tumour, after more or less active inflammation, becomes hard, incompressible, and indolent, permanent in size, and of a purplish or plum colour. The coagulum thus formed may excite sup- puration, or may be absorbed, the hypertrophied tissues forming one of the usual anal folds if the pile be external. In some rare instances, the coagula may be calcified and form phlebolithes. C'oagnlation takes place more frequently in external than in internal piles, ■owing to the great impediment to the return of the blood from them, and to their greater liability to inflammation, their exposed situation leading them to be bruised or otherwise injured. AYhen it occui*s in internal piles, it most commonly affects those that are of a columnar or longitudinal shape, and least frequently the globular variety. Suppuration is not an uncommon termination, if acute inflammation have been set up in internal piles, more especially in those that have previously l)een coagulated. When the abscess is discharged, small coagula escape with its contents, the cavity granulates, and becomes obliterated, and the pile is cured. Sphacelus.—In some cases, when there is much elongation of the mucous membrane from which the pile springs, prolapsus of that membrane and of the piles may take place ; and, this being gi’asped after it has descended by the mntraction of the sphincter, the.same effect may be produced as if a ligature vere applied. The tumour becomes much swollen, hard, livid, and tense; there ire much constitutional disturbance and restlessness ; but after a few days he part that is constricted sloughs and drops off*, and all the symptoms arc elieved. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis must be regarded in two points of view;— , as concerns the Hemorrhoidal Tumours; and 2, with reference to the Hemorrhoidal Flux. 1. Haemorrhoidal Tumours must be diagnosed from prolapsus ani, lol^qiiis of the rectum, epithelioma of the anus, and condylomata about the nus. From prolapsus the diagnosis is not always easy ; indeed, the two -.iscases are so generally associated, that it is of little moment to attempt it. n true prolapsus, ocular examination will suffice to distinguish the mem- •ranous wall of the intestine, forming a smooth, rounded, and somewhat lobn- ited annular protuberance, fi’om the isolated tumours of piles. In polypus lie history of the case, the pedunculated and solitary character of the tumour, large size, and comparatively slight tendency to periodical luemorrhage, -ill enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. Epithelioma is easilv recoir- fit i