SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 256 opened. As soon as this is reached, tlie outer part of the soleus and the gastrocnemius must be drawn well outwards with a copper s[)atula, and the artery comes into view with a vein on each side, and the nerve most commonly to the outer side. The vessels are covered by a thin fascia, and lie on the fascia covering the deep muscles. Care must be taken in dividing the soleus not to wound this latter fascia, as should this happen the artery is easily lifted with the superficial muscles. The needle should be passed from the side on which the nerve lies. The posterior tibial artery lehincl the malleolus is reached by making a semi- lunar incision about two inches in length, curving round the ])Osterior and lower part of the malleolus, and one finger’s breadth behind it. After di\iding the skin and fiit, the internal annular ligament comes into view. If the guiding line have been accurately adhered to, the artery will appear immedi- ately the annular hgament is divided. It has a thick-walled vein on either side of it, which may be mistaken for the artery in a bloodless limb, unless it be carefully examined. The nerve lies behind and external to the artery, and the needle must be passed from behind. The most common error in tying this artery arises from keeping to the convex instead of to the concave side of the wound while deepening the incision. The deep parts of the incision thus gradually approach the malleolus, and the tendons are reached instead of the artery. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is that exposed, as it is most superficial. The artery must then be looked for behind this, and immediately beneath the annidar Myament. If the dissection be carried on past the sheath of the tibialis posticus till the flexor longus digitorum comes into view, it will pass beneath the artery, which is then usually held out of the way in the posterior blmit hook, and is thus missed. The flexor longus poUicis lies so far behind the artery that it is scarcely possible to expose it. The Anterior Tibial Artery may be tied in several situations ; but, like the posterior tibial, it should not be ligatured in the upper or middle parts of the leg, except for injury. The difficulties of the operation are lessened as the ankle where the artery becomes superficial, is approached. The line of direction of the anterior tibial artery is from the inner side of the head of the fibula to a point exactly midway between the two malleoli; and the course of the dorsal artery of the foot is from this point to the cleft between the first two toes. In the upper third of the leg the artery lies deeply between the tibialis anticus and extensor communis digitorum, surrounded by veins, and having its nerve to the outer side. If it ever be found necessary to tie it in this situation, an incision should be made in the guiding line of the artery, from four to five inches in length. The deep fiiteia must be opened, and, if neces- sary, notched transversely. In the upper fourth of the limb the tibialis anticus arises from the fascia, which adds somewhat to the difficulty of finding the interval between the muscles. The first intermuscular space to the outside of the tibia is the one to be sought for. When it is found, the ankle must he flexed to relax the muscles, which arc then held apart with copjier sjmtulw. The artery may then be cleaned with a director, and the needle passed obliquely beneath it. In operating high up in the limb it is possible to slip into the space between the peronei and the extensor digitorum. This error is at once recognized by finding a distinct fibrous intermuscular septum, no such struc- ture existing between the tibialis anticus and the flexor digitorum.