PROLAPSE OF THE VAOIXAL WALLS. 1191 Removal of the Clitoris, even thoiigli not enlarged, Avas some years ago recommended and extensively practised as a means of cure in some forms of epilepsy and of erotomania. This is an operation as unscientific as it Avould be to remove tlie glans penis for the cure of similar aftections in the male, and one that the experience of the profession lias proved to be as useless in its results as it is unscientific in its principle. • Tumouhs of various kinds are met with in the interior of the vagina, springing from its walls. These may be of a Cystic character ; but occasion- ally trae Mucous Polypi are found dependent and projecting from the side of this canal. These may most readily be removed by transfixing their base by a double whipcord ligature, and then strangling them. In performing this ojieration, however, when the tumom* grows from the posterior wall, care must lie taken to ascertain, by proper digital examination, that a portion of the rectum has not been di’agged down into its base. Yaginal Haemorrhoids are occasionally, though rarely, met with. They occm’ chiefly towards the anterior pai’t of the vagina, or about the lower wall of the urethra, as rounded, smooth, purple masses of enlarged and congested veins. In one case I have seen a mass of this kind in an old lady give rise to permanent incontinence of urine or dysuria, by keeping the urethral aperture patent. Destruction by Paquelin’s or the galvanic cautery is the best method of treatment, care being taken not to touch the healthy mucous membrane, which must be protected by a bone speculum. Prolapsus of the anterior or the posterior wall of the vagina may occur, giving rise, in the first instance, to protrusion of the bladder, or Cystocele ; in the other, to a Rectocele. In either case, but especially in the first, it occasions veiy serious and troublesome consequences, amongst which chronic inltation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, with perhaps phosphatic deposits in the urine, are the most marked. These protrusions may be sup- jiGiied by the use of properly constructed belts or pessaries combined with the use of astringent injections. In some cases the Surgeon may feel disposed to undertake plastic operations, in order to naiTOw the vaginal orifice by freely paring opposite portions of its wall, bringing together the freshened surfaces l)y means of the silver suture, and thus procuring narrowing of the canal and permanent support to the ])rotruded part. The success of such operative jiroceedings will greatly dep3iid on attention to details. The mucous membrane at the orifice of the vagina should be dissected oft’ from about half an inch below the meatus on one side, to a corresponding part on the other, in a strip about an inch and a half wide ; the dissection l)cing carried well iq) jiosteriorly in the fourchette. Two or three deep, and as many superficial, sutures should be passed; the deej) being left in for about five, the su])ci'ficial for seven days. Great attention should be paid to cleanliness, the ])atient lying on her side with a catheter in the hla^lder communicating with an india-rubber tube to carry oft’ the urine ; and the bowels should be confined by opium. Yauiouh Discharges connected with the female organs of generation i’all under the observations of the Surgeon ; these may occur from the external organs, from the mucous membrane covering the cervix uteri, or from the interior of the cavity of that organ. These discharges, when jirocceding from the mucons membrane covering the external organ, or lining the vagina, are frequently, though not necessarily, of a gonorrhoeal character ; and then