877 CAUSES AND TEEA'/AIEN'r OF FISSURE. produced l)y the rectal disease simulate those occasioned by uterine irritation ; and in both sexes they may after a time become continuous, and be attended by a good deal of constant uneasiness in sitting, so that the patient is obliged to raise the hip of the affected side. There is often a streak of pus or blood on the fieces, and commonly a good deal of mucous exudation, with some tenesmus on defiecation ; but in some instances these symptoms are altogether absent, and the patient never suffers any local inconvenience except from the pain. The constitutional irritation is often very great, the nervous system gene- rally sympathizing ivith the local mischief. The countenance becomes pale, anxious, careworn, and the patient’s expression is indicative of constant suffering. Causes.—This affection most commonly occurs in women, especially in those of a hysterical temperament and weakly constitution. In some oases it seems to have arisen from injury during labour. When met with in men, it is most frequently seen in debilitated subjects, and appears to be the result of a broken state of health. In persons who have been the subjects of the chronic dysentery of hot climates, I have several times noticed a peculiar form of patchy ulceration within the rectum, of an extremely irrit- able and very intractable character. I have in several instances observed it in women to be of a syphilitic nature, and in such cases it is situated generally towards the side or the anterior part of the anus. The rectum may be injured by blows or falls upon the sacrum or coccyx. Fissure, laceration of the mucous membrane, rupture of the muscular fibres, or even detachment of the whole of the rectum from its connections with the sacrum and coccyx, may ensue from these injuries. Treatment.—The treatment of fissm-e or ulcer of the anus, when the disease is met with in the early stages, may sometimes be successfully conducted by : the application of nitrate of silver to the fissure, and the use of an anodyne or astringent suppository. I have found a very excellent and useful suppository in this and many other painful affections of the anus to be composed of 2 grains of extract of belladonna, 2 grains of the acetate of lead, and 4 of tannin, made up to a proper consistence Avith a little cocoa-butter. This may be introduced into the rectum every night and allowed to dissolve there ; the bowels should at the same time be kept gently open Avith castor-oil, or the lenitive electuary. ; In those cases in which the disease has been of some standing these means will not suffice, audit becomes'necessary to have recourse to a A^ery simple operation to effect a cure. This consists in diAuding the affected mucous membrane through the ulcer or fissure, Avith possibly some of the subjacent fibres of the sphincter muscle, by Avhich the part is set at rest, and cicatrization speedily takes place. The relief after the operation is usually immediate ; indeed, after its performance, a patient aa’Iio has been suffering severely for months or years, AA’ill often get complete and almost instantaneous relief. The merit of intro- '.ducing this plan of treatment for the cure of ulcer and fissure of the anus into surgical practice is due to Sir B. Brodie. Boyer had previously recommended that the sphincter should be cut completely across, in order that its action might be paralysed ; but Brodie found that the ulcer could be made to heal as readily by the limited incision above mentioned. Tlie operation is readily done by introducing the left fore-finger into the rectum, guiding along it a probe-pointed bistoury, and then cutting doAviiAvards and outAvards, cariying