f ■ i be LIGATURE OF DORSAL ARTERY OF FOOT 257 111 the middle and lower thirds of the leg the artery will be found between the tibialis anticus and the extensor propriiis pollicis ; the latter muscle does not, however, reach the surface above the middle of the leg. The right space is found by keeping accurately to the guiding line of the artery, and, after the fascia is opened, taking the outer border of the tibialis anticus as the guide. The edge of the flexor loiigus digitorum is recognized by its rounded tendon, reaching considerably above the middle of the leg, with fleshy fibres joining it on the outer side. The Arteria Dorsalis Pedis runs from a point midway between the two malleoli to the base of the space between the two first and second metatarsal bones, and may be felt pulsating in this line. It lies external to the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and is crossed near its lower end by the internal belly and tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It is sometimes absent, and not unfrequently lies external to the line just mentioned. It is reached by an incision in the line of the artery, one inch and a half in length, the lower end of which corresponds to the base of the space between the first two ; metatarsal bones. The superficial and deep fascia being divided, the artery ■ may immediately come into view. If it does not, the inner belly and tendon of the extensor brevis must be sought for, and its inner border followed till ■ the long extensor is reached. If the artery is not seen passing beneath the : tendon of the short extensor, that muscle must be forcibly pulled outwards I and the vessel sought for beneath it. If it does not then come into view, it is ■ probably absent. The termination of the anterior tibial nerve accompanies tithe artery when it is in its normal situation, and lies usually to the outer side ' of it. The Peroneal Artery has been tied in rare cases for wound in the middle I of the leg. It is found by making an incision about three inches in length on : the posterior border of the fibula, which is the first “ rallying point ” in the ' operation. A thhi tendinous layer, forming part of the origin of the soleus, t and sometimes a few fleshy fibres, are foimd attached to the bone. On dividing ■ these, the flexor longus pollicis comes into view. This is cut carefully away from the posterior surface of the bone, and at its inner edge a tube of fascia ; is found, in which the artery lies between the flexor pollicis and tibialis ; posticus. This must be opened, and the venm comites separated with a director, 1 after which the needle is easily passed. VOI.. II. s