HERNIA. 8o2 return of the sac and its contents into the abdomen still in a state of strangu- lation. When it is said tliat the parts are returned into the abdomen, it must not he understood that they are ])ushed back into its cavity, l)ut that the external protrusion is caused to disappear by being pushed into the subsci-ous areolar tissue behind and underneath the parietal peritoneum, between it and the abdominal muscles. This remarkable accident, which was first described by the French Surgeons of the last century, received but little notice from practitioners in this country until attention was drawn to it by Luke, by whom its pathology has been carefully studied. Birkctt, who has also investigated this condition with much care, is of opinion that the sac is not torn from its connections in the scrotum or canal, and pushed back, but that it is ruptured, usually at its posterior part at its neck, and that thus the contents of the sac are forced through this rent into the subperitoneal areolar tissue ; Avhilst the mouth of the sac, still constricting the hernia, and thus keeping it in a state of strangulation, is pushed back from the internal ring. It appears to me that both explanations are correct, and that we must admit two forms of reduction in mass ; the sac being pushed back intact in a state of strangulation, in one form, as described by Luke ; whilst in the other, as observed by Birkett, the sac is ruptured, and the hernia, strangulated by the displaced mouth of the sac, is forced out through the rent. Causes.—The reduction in mass has been far more frecpiently observed in cases of inguinal than in those of any of the other varieties of hernia. It has been met with in femoral herniae, but very rarely, and, so far as I know, not in any other form of the disease. This comparative frequency of its occurrence in inguinal hernige is doubtless due to their large size, and loose areolar con- nections. The accident has more often occurred from the patient’s own efforts dli oi b IP' tiiii at reducing a strangulated hernia, than from those of the Surgeon. It is a remarkable fact that, in most of the instances in which it has ocema-ed, only a very slight degree of force appears to have been employed in the reduction of the tumour ; and the accident would seem to have resulted from the adhesions between the sac and the neighbouring parts being much weaker than natural, so that a moderate degree of force caused the whole to slip through the canal. It may, however, occur from the Surgeon’s efforts, if these be too forcible or long-continued. Symjjtoms.—The symptoms indicative of this accident are constitutional and local. The constitutional symptoms consist in a continuance of those that are indicative of the existence of strangulation, notwithstanding the disappear- ance of the tumour. The vomiting and constipation persisting, the patient speedily becomes much depressed in strength, being seized with hiccup and prostration of all vital power ; signs of gangrene then evince themselves withiu the sac ; and death ensues. An examination of the parts in hernia will usually enable the Surgeon to recognize the nature of the accident; he will ascertain that a tumour had pre- viously existed, and will learn from a description of its general characters, and the symptoms occasioned by it, that it was in all probability a strangulated S rupture. He wdll then find, on examining the part, that there is a total absence C of all that fulness which is occasioned by the presence of the sac, even after ih contents only have been reduced ; the sac, in such cases, always gi^ ing rise t< t a feeling of fulness and roundness in the part. He will, on the contrary, fine that the abdominal ring is peculiarly and very distinctly open ; it is mud \ til- ;ou Ivill m. dir