DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 452 cancellous tissue, and also one or two of the reddened medulla, were many little masses of the size of millet-seeds, looking like transparent cartilage, hard and resisting, yielding no juice, not breaking down at all easily under the finger, torn with difficulty by the needle, and when torn showing great numbers of nuclei and fibres. They pervaded the whole bone, and were found also in the acetabulum, but in smaller numbers. Some of them could easily be enu- cleated where the medulla was soft, others could be separated only with diffi- culty from the cancellous bone. From this account it is easy to perceive that the disease was tubercular ; that it commenced in the osseous structures, chiefly of the femur ; and that it secondarily implicated the soft articular structures. Acetabular Coxalgia.—In the acetabular form, the disease originates in the pelvic bones, and the articulation and head of the thigh-bone are only secondarily involved. The disease of the pelvic bones has more of the cha- racter of necrosis than of caries ; but the two morbid conditions are in many cases co-existent, the acetabulum being carious, whilst the rami of the pubes and ischium are necrosed. The soft articular structures speedily become dis- organized ; the cartilage incrusting the head of the thigh-bone is destroyed ; the femoral head itself becomes eroded ; but the disease does not extend into the neck or trochanters. This form of hip-joint disease is more common in adults than any other variety. The Symptoms are usually obscure in the early stages, but become veiy unequivocal as the disease advances. There is pain around the hip rather than in the joint itself ; this, however, becomes tender on pressure, and the patient cannot bear on the limb, but no alteration takes place in its length, although it becomes greatly wasted. Abscess invariably forms, perhaps at first within the pelvic cavity ; but it soon presents externally. Sometimes it passes down by the side of the rectum, or through the sciatic notch to the gluteal region ; but generally it points near the pubes, under Poupart’s ligament. Hectic comes on ; the sufferings are greatly increased ; and death from ex- haustion speedily ensues in this, which is by far the most fatal form of hip-disease. In cases of this form, dislocation, though it is met with now and then, rarely takes place. Sometimes, however, the destruction of the acetabu- lum is so extensive that the head of the thigh-bone penetrates it, and passes into the pelvic cavity. Dislocation is most frequent when the disease has destroyed the head of the bone ; so that, the head being no longer present, no impediment is offered to the action of the muscles around the joint, and the bone at length slips from its position in the cavity of the acetabulum. Prognosis of Hip-Joint Disease.—The prognosis in cases of diseased hip must be regarded from two points of view—1, as concerns the Life of the Patient; 2, as to the Utility of the Limb that will be left. 1. Life.—Disease of the hip-joint, and of the contiguous osseous structures, is dangerous to life in proportion to the abundance and the long continuance of the suppuration ; and this is dependent partly on the patient’s constitution, but chiefly, and in the first degree, on the extent and nature of the osseous disease. In the arthritic form of coxalgia, suppuration is often prevented by rest and appropriate treatment; and when tliis is the case, the patient will usually recover. If suppuration take place in cases of tin’s kind, recovery need not be despaired of ; but convalesence will be greatly protracted. In such • I: '■] li 0 13 pi\ 'If. U! : i 'pa Jo Ju) Ipi L