581 CYSTS OR DROPSY OF THE ANTRU2L removed. It is well not to attempt to perforate in the site of teeth that have been extracted for some time, as here the hone becomes nndiilj consolidated, and the attempt to reach the cavity is consequently likely to fail. The matter that is discharged is often very offensive, or it may be thick and pasty from the absorption of its watery parts. After the aperture has been made, the cavity should be sjTinged out with tej)id water, and the shape of the check gradually restored by pressure. Cysts of the Antrum or Dropsy of the Antrum.—In this disease the antrum becomes slowly distended with a fluid, in some cases glairy and mucous in character, like the contents of a ranula or ganglion, in others thin, brownish, and serous, containing cholesterine. It Avas formerly believed that this condition Avas in some instances at least due to obstruction of the aperture leading from the antrum to the nose, but it is now generally acknow- ledged that in all cases it results from the formation of a cystic tumour springing fr’om the mucous membrane lining the cavity. In such cases the accmnulation of fluid may after a time cause expansion and thinning of the osseous walls of the caAuty. The cheek is rendered round and prominent—a painless indolent semi-elastic tmnour forming in it and protruding it outAvards, and giving rise to the egg-shell or parchment- like crackling on pressure (Fig. 677). The floor of the orbit or the roof of the mouth may be caused to bulge, and the nasal cavity may be encroached upon. Treatment.—The operation of “ catheterizing the antrum,” founded on an eiToneous idea as to the nature of the disease, Avas formerly recommended, but was never attended by any benefit to the patient. The only efficient treat- ment consists in opening the antrum from without: this is done AA'ithout incising the lips or AA'ounding the face, by thrusting a trochar and cannula into the most thinned and ex- panded part of the tumour imder the cheek ; or, if necessary, by dissecting up the cheek Fig. 677.—Cystic Tumour of Antrum, from the gum, and thus making an opening into the cavity of the antrum with a strong pair of scissors or a perforator, through its most expanded and thinnest part, so as to alloAA" the discharge to escape freely. In order to prevent a re-accumulation of the fluid, it Avill be better to cut aAvay a small portion of the thin and expanded Avail of the antrum, and thus to establish a permanent aperture in it, tlirough Avliich it must Ije syringed out daily Avith some antiseptic solution, such as Condy’s fluid, until aU discharge ceases. The best instrument for this purpose is that recommended l^y Heath, consisting of a common Eustachian catheter, to which an india-rubber ball is fitted to contain the fluid to be injected. Polypus of the Antrum.—IMucous polypi are occasionally met Avith in the antrum, but they give rise to no symptoms unless they reach a size sufficient to cause distension of the cavity. They then most commonly cause absorption of the inner Avail and project into the nasal cavity, from Avhich they have been succes-sfully removed by forceps. Dentigerous Cysts.—These may, according to Christopher Heath, occur