46 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. vascular tlian natural, hut from the pressure of the accumulated cells the vessels soon become obliterated, and non-vascular areas are formed. At this stage in a very large proportion of scrofulous glands, giant-cells surrounded by a zone of larger cells, and again by lymphoid corpuscles, forming thus the anatomi- cal structure of a tubercle nodule, are met with in the non-vascular patches. The caseation commences in the non-vascular spots, and gradually extends. The trabeculae disappear last in the caseating process. In a large proportion of cases examined up to the present time, the tubercle bacillus has been found ||| in the cheesy glands. In the present state of our knowledge, it is not possible to define accurately the relation of tubercle to chronic glandular inflammation. ;| In those cases in which the glandular disease is secondary to a tubercular J affection of the region from which they receive their lymph, they are probably tubercular from the beginning. In other cases the chronic inflammation may I be antecedent to and a predisposing cause of the development of tubercle ; 1 and again it is probable that chronic inflammation followed by caseation and '. softening may take place without the process being at any time tubercular. i The softened caseous product of chronic inflammation of the lymphatic glands has been believed for many years to be a source of general tubercular infection, the fine granular debris entering the circulation and lodging in distant parts, and there causing the growth of tubercle. Since Koch’s dis- covery of the bacillus of tubercle, this organism has been believed to be the | actual infective material in such cases. This general infection when it does i occur is however merely an accidental occurrence, the vast majority of patients who suffer from caseating lymphatic glands escaping with nothing more than the local disease. Induration of the gland, due to thickening of the trabeculse and capsule, j and of the meshes of the retiform connective tissue, is not an uncommon > result of slight degrees of chronic inflammation. In whatever way occurring, inflammation of the lymphatic glands always causes obstruction to the flow of lymph through them, and if the whole or greater part of the glands of a limb be affected, oedema, often of a solid cha- racter, may occur in the parts from which they receive their afferent lymphatic vessels. Symptoms.—In Acute Lymphadenitis there are pain, swelling, and tenderness, and stiffness about the affected glands, with a dull heavy sensa- tion in them. The outline of the swollen gland is at first clearly defined, but soon becomes concealed by the inflammation extending to the contiguous areolar tissue. Before long redness, oedema, and the other signs of acute abscess make their appearance. In Subacute Lymphadenitis the glands become swollen, enlarged, and tender, and are matted together by inflamma- tory exudation into the surrounding tissues. If abscess form, it frequently commences in the structures around the glands ; and those are perhaps eventually exposed at the bottom of the cavity that results. This is especially apt to happen in cachectic and strumous persons from slight sources of irrita- tion. Yery commonly in such subjects the inflammation of the glands runs into a chronic state. Chronic Lymphadenitis or Strumous Lnlargement of the Lymphatic Glands may arise as a sequence of subacute inflammation, but more commonly the glands gradually enlarge without marked pain or tender- ness in consequence of chronic irritation of some kind. It is not possible to make any accurate distinction clinically between simple chronic inflammation,