TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER. 1047 I ,, ^ » iiictly pedunculated, the great majority being more or less sessile. When fil <)eduuculated, the pedicle may, in rare cases, be of considerable length, l.l onietimes an inch or more. $1 Other simple tumours are occasionally met with. Thus in children simple !I\^<lnllcous polypi have been observed. They are smooth or nearly smooth on d he surface, and composed chiefly of myxoma-tissue, similar to that seen in .he simple polypus of the nose. In others the connective tissue basis of the Lumour was so firm and the papillation on the surface so imperfect that the |.<rowth has been described as a fibroma. Probably all these growths are 1 dosely related to each other, consisting essentially of an out-growth from ; ' he submucous tissue of the bladder. Myomala also, or tumours containing ,aon-striated muscular fibre have been met with springing from the wall of p :he bladder. I'l • Sarcoma of the bladder has been met with in a few cases. The growth is M .composed of round cells, or mixed round and spindle cells, and is papillary on i:he surface. The distinction between this and a papilloma with a thick base ijj which has been inflamed is not easy to make out, and further investigation is ■¥ ver|uired before a clear separation can be made between these tmnours ; more t ii’specially as all new growths in the bladder, whether simple or malignant, e ttend to assume a papillary form. Sir Henry Thompson describes tumours i which, in his opinion, occupy a place between papilloma and sarcoma, and i which he terms “transitional.” i Symptoms.—Simple tmnours of the bladder occur usually in youth or early I' middle age. The earliest symptom in all forms of simple tumour is hsemor- f rhage. At first it is small in amount and intermittent, but as the disease f ; progresses it becomes more abundant and almost constant. The characteristic i -sign of hmmoiThage from a A'illous tiunour is that the blood is not uniformly |i :mixed with the urine, but comes chiefly towards the end of micturition, some- k t times dropping away almost pure after the urine has ceased to flow. The I quantity may be very large, and clots are often passed. As the disease ■ advances frequency of micturition and the general signs of irritability of the ! bladder may make their appearance, but hasmaturia may form the only ' symptom for many months or even years. I have known abundant hasmaturia I to continue for many years—for twelve or fourteen—probably from a papil- loma, without deranging the general health to so great an extent as might be 1 expected from so continuous and copious a loss of blood. The most important sign, and one which should always be persistently sought for, is the passage of recognizable fragments of the growth in the urine. But little information is gained by sounding ; occasionally some irregularity may be felt, but its nature and outline cannot be determined. A hollow sound may, however, return with some of the growth in its eye, and thus determine the nature of the case. Profuse haemorrliage, after sounding, commonly occurs, but is not sufficient to found a diagnosis upon. Examination of the trigone from the rectum never gives any information unless the tumour be very large, when it might possibly be recognized by pressing firmly above the pubes at the same time. Careful examination of the bladder by means of a small flat-bladcd lithotritc may detect the presence of the tumour, as in the first case recorded by Thompson. 'riiese tumours occasionally become encrusted with phosphatic matter, deposited upon them by the urine, and then they will resemble still more