INGUINAL HERNIA. 805 CHAPTEK LXII. —♦— SPECIAL HERNIiE. 1 T' H ii' i ii « t 4 1% INGUINAL HERNIA. By Inguinal Hernia is meant tliat protrusion which occupies the whole or a portion of the inguinal canal, and when fully formed, passes out of the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. Many varieties of this hernia are recognized by Surgeons. Thus it is said to be Complete, when it passes out of the external ring ; Incomjjlete, or Interstitial, so long as it is contained within the canal; Oblique, when it occupies the whole course of the canal ; Direct, when it passes forwards through a limited extent of it ; Congenital, when it descends through an unobliterated processus vaginalis and lies in the sac of the tunica ■s’aginalis; and Encysted, or Infantile, when it lies behind this. Inguinal hemim constitute the commonest species of rupture, aud would be much more frecpient than they are, were it not for the obliquity of the canal, and the manner in which its sides are applied to one another, and closely overlap the spermatic cord. They occur with most readiness in those cases in Avhich the canal is short and the apertures wide. Although these hernige are commonly incomplete in their early stages, it is seldom that they come under the obseiwation of the fSurgeon until the protrusion has passed beyond the abdominal ring. Oblique Ixguixal Hernia, often called External, on account of its relation to the epigastric artery, passes through the whole length of the canal, from one ring to the other ; and usually iirotrudes through the external one, constituting one of the forms of Scrotal Hernia. Coverings.—As it [passes along the canal, it necessarily receives the same investments that the speimatic cord does; although these are often greatly modified by being elongated, hypertrophied, and otherwise altered in appear- ance. If we regard the inguinal canal as consisting of a series of protrusions of the different layei'S.of the abdominal parietes, the outermost being the skin, and the innermost the fascia transvcrsalis, with the peritoneum applied to this, it is easy to understand how the hernia in its descent has these pro- longations drawn over it, thus becoming successively invested Avith the same coverings as the spennatic cord. Thus it first pushes before it that portion of the ])critoneum which lies in a fossa just external to the epigastric vessels ; it next receives an investment from the subperitoneal fat, which, uniting with the fascia transversiilis, constitutes the fascia ptropria of the sac ; as it jiasses under the intemal oblique, it receives some of the fibres of this muscle, in the shaf)e of the cremasteric fascia ; and, lastly, Avhen it reaches the external alxlominal ring, which it greatly distends and rcudei-s round and open, it Ixicomes covered by the intercolnmnar fascia, receiving also a piudial invest- laent around its neck from some of the ex])anded and thickened fibrous