377 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW. k ;|| :omfort, rendering the hand available for most j:)nrposGS of life. In cases ol II 'ingidar osseous ank}dosis of the elbow, a wedge-shaped piece of bone should be |:| removed, so that an useful and movable articulation may be substituted for one ;hat is rigid and fi.xed. 3. Iti cases of compound fracture or dislocation of the elbow-joint, more or iess complete resection of the protruding, and possibly splintered fragments, may be required (pp. 575 and 0(52, Vol. 1.). Operation.—Excision of the elbow-joint may be performed by the H> the !||iT-shaped, or the simple longitudinal incision, or by two longitudinal incisions. Each method has its advocates. The H-shaped operation consists in making m incision pai’allel to, and a little to the radial side of, the ulnar nerve, mother along the outer side of the joint, and uniting the two by a cross cut, lissectiug up and down two square flaps, and clearing the bones laterally. It tvas soon found by Surgeons that by this method a very unnecessary amount of incision was practised ; and accordingly the vertical cut along the outer side •was dispensed with, and the |—shaped operation adopted. This consists in making the longitudinal incision parallel to, and a little to the radial side of the ulnar nerve, and the crosscut over the olecranon to the outer side of the i joint. Subsequent experience has shown that this incision may be still further ramplified, and the operation reduced to a single longitudinal incision carried over the centre of the joint in the middle line from above downwards. In oomparing these different methods of operating, I decidedly give the preference CO the single longitudinal incision, as being quite sufficient in all ordinary cases for the complete and easy removal of the articulation. Both the H - and T-shaped incisions involve, moreover, a'complete transverse division of the :endon of the triceps, in consequence of which the power of active extension of :he limb may be lost after recovery from the operation. Should the soft •.structures towards the outer side of the joint not yield sufficiently, a cross-cut i :can at once be made, so as to liberate them, and give the Surgeon more room, oy turning up the two triangular flaps that will thus be formed. The following are the successive steps of the operation by the y-shaped and :angle longitudinal incisions. Should the former be adopted, either in conse- i juence of the situation of the sinuses or of previous incisions for the relief of 0 I bbscesses, the arm being held across the chest, the perpendicular cut should be ; nade parallel to, and a line or two to the outer side of, the ulnar nerve ; being a ' 3ommenced at least two inches above the point of the olecranon, and carried lown to about three inches below it. The transverse incision may then be nade directly across the end of the olecranon, to the outer side of the joint, 1 \ ind extended as far as the extremity of the outer condyle (Fig. 538). The iwo triangular flaps thus made must be dissected up, the knife being carried 1 close to the bones (Fig. 539). The subsequent steps are the same in the t operation by the single longitudinal incision. In the operation by the sirujle longitudinal incision the arm is held in the !f •position just described, and the incision is commenced from two to three inches •oelow the tip of the olecranon and caiTied directly over the middle of that process, tenninating a similar distance above it. If the parts are much iwollen, the length of the incision must be increased so as to allow of the fldes being held well apart. The incision must be carried flrmly down to the ■fcKmes so as completely to divide the tendon of the triceps in a longitudinal lirection. "JAie arm is then slightlv extended, and soft parts cleared B'om the i