116o mSEASE.S OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. fluid of liydrocelc may in in<i8t cases Ijo considered as cliaract^erisfcic of the encysted variety of the disease. The Skjns of encysted hydrocele differ in some respects from those presented by hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The tumour is smaller, more irregular in shape, and does not envelop the testis eomjDletely, hut is situated behind and above it, rather in connection with the epididymis. The Diagnosis from ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis may be made hy observing : 1. That the testis is below and in front, and not covered in bv the encysted form of the disease ; 2. That the tmnour is more globular oV irregular, and less pyriform ; 3. When tapped, the fluid will usually be found to be opalescent. The Treatment consists in injecting the sac with tincture of iodine, or in incising the tumour and allowing it to granulate from the bottom. The in- jection by iodine is not so frequently successful in this as in the last variety of the disease, but deserves a trial; if it fail, incision of the tumour wiU always effect a cure. In encysted hydrocele, the iodine injection should not he so strong as that which is used for injecting the tunica vaginalis. It should be diluted with two or tln-ee parts of water, as ft comes more directly into relation with the structure of the testis. Hydeocele of the Core.—This disease is characterized by the presence of a round or oval tumour, situated on the cord, below or within the inguinal canal. It is smooth, elastic, and, if of sufficient size, may show semi- transparency on examination by transmitted light. It can be pushed up into the alxiomen, unless the testicle be drawn firmly down so as to put the eord on the stretch, when the cyst becomes fixed. It receives no impulse on coughing, and does not alter in size on being steadily compressed. Occasionally more than one cyst may be met with. It a^Dpears to be due, in some cases, to imperfect closure at one or more points of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, and to distension by fluid of the unclosed portions ; though it is possible that in other instances it may arise as a distinct cystic growth. These tumoiu’s may occur at all ages, but are met with chiefly in the young, and are not unfr'equent amongst children. The fluid of a hydrocele of the cord is lighter in colour than that of one of the tunica vaginalis. Treatment.—The obliteration of the cyst is best conducted hy passing a setoii through it, or by making an incision into it, treating it antisepticall}^ and letting it granulate from the bottom. Diffused Hydrocet.e of the Spermatic Cord consists in the infiltration of the cord with serous fluid, contained in rather distinct spaces, and giving rise to an oval or oblong irregular circumscribed tumour, extending below and into the inguinal canal. The Treatment consists in the apjfiication of blisters, or of counter-irritant y)lastcrs. Should the disease prove very troublesome, an incision might he made down to and into the swelling, so as to let out the fluid and allow the oyst to become consolidated. ILematocele.—By Hcematocele is meant an accumulation of blood in the tunica vaginalis, distending that sac, and compressing the testis. It is of two kinds. Traumatic and Spontaneous. ’’I’lie Traumatic is tlie most common form