461 EXCISION OF HEAD OF FEMUR. femur is the part primarily affected, and in tliese recovery will take place even- tually, under proi)crly conducted medico-surgical treatment. But the recovery ill such cases is always so far incomplete that the limb is left much crippled, and often of but little utility. In cases of this kind, after years of suffering and confinement to bed, and after a hard struggle for existence, we find the unfortunate patient left eventually with a limb that is shortened to the extent of from two to four inches, wasted and adducted, with a projecting deformed hip seamed with cicatrices ; the remains of the head of the femur being dis- located from the acetabulum, and adherent to the dorsum ilii by firm ankylosis. The limb is unable to support the body, and cannot be extended, nor can the sole of the foot be firmly planted on the ground ; but the leg is to a certain extent useful in progression, the patient using it as a kind of paddle to push himself on with, as he limps on the point of the toes. In these cases it is interesting to observe how nature compensates for the loss of all abduction and rotatory power in the hip by giving an extremely increased degree of mobility to the lumbar vertebrm ; so that the patient, in walking, swings the pelvis from these, and thus in a gi’eat degree makes up for the loss of the natural movements in the ilio-femoral articulation. But though recovery takes place eventually in the majority of cases of coxalgia that have advanced even to suppuration, yet in some—and not a few— instances the patient’s constitution becomes unequal to the drain imposed upon it, and fatal hectic eventually supervenes. This is the direct conse- quence of the wasting and exhausting influence of the long-continued discharge of pus from masses of carious or necrosed bone, too extensive or too deeply seated to be eliminated by natural processes. It is in such cases as these that conservative surgery steps in, and endeavours to save the patient’s life by the removal of the morbid cause that keeps up the discharge which is wasting it away. The object here is simply to save life by the removal of diseased bone. For the same reason—the preservation of life from hectic—that the Siu’geon amputates in an extreme case of suppurating disorganization of the knee-joint, he excises in an extreme case of disorganization of the osseous structures that enter into the formation of the hip-joint : amputation is here too formidable a proceeding to be undertaken, and yet the removal of the diseased bone, the initation and suppuration from which are rapidly destroying the patient, is an imperative necessity. Femoral coxalgia is the form of the disease that is most benefited by operation. In severe cases of this variety, the upper epiphysis of the thigh-bone will be found lying in a state of caries 011 the dorsum ilii, in a suppurating cavity, with sinuses leading down to it. The pelvic bones are sound; the acetabulum is filled by fibrous tissue, though possibly it may be slightly roughened and necrosed at one lip. The soft structures in the gluteal region are thinned and wasted ; the limb is shortened and adducted. In such cases as these, the patient will probably perish if left to the unaided efforts of nature ; or if he recover, after years of suffering, it will be with a limb shortened, deformed, and but little useful. Resection, being limited to the upper end of the thigh-bone, or at most to the roughened lip of the acetabulum as well, is an easy operation, removes the cause of the wasting discharges and hectic, and in no way increases the already existing shortening, it is limited to that portion of diseased bone Avhich is already lying above and l)chind the acetabulum, and which is affected by caries of too extensive