231 METHODS OF TYING EXTERNAL ILIAC. oblique being held open with blunt hooks, the cord, surrounded by^ the cremaster, and the lower edge of the internal oblique come into view, feome loose areolar tissue and a few tibres of the cremaster must now be scratched through, close to Poupart’s ligament, and the linger passed beneath the cord, which must be pushed upwards. The transversalis fascia is then carefully torn through with the director and forceps, and the artery can then be Iclt covered by a little fat and areolar tissue. Two copper spatulm are then inserted through the opening in the transversalis fascia ; the internal of these is drawn upwards and inwards, raising the cord and drawing the epigastric artery out of the way ; the external pidls the lower border of the internal oblique and of the transversalis upwards and outwards. Both spatulae raise the peritoneum. By clearing away a little loose ai-eolai- tissue, the artery can be exposed for one inch and a half or two inches without difficulty. It has the genital branch of the genito-crural lying on it, and it is crossed by the circiuntlex iliac vein a little above Poupart’s ligament; the external iliac vein I is to its inner side ; these must be carefully avoided. The needle must be I passed from the inner side not less than one inch above Poupart’s ligament, ! so as to avoid the epigastric and ciremnflex iliac arteries. After the operation i a drainage-tube may be inserted at the lower angle of the wound, and a catgut j suture inserted in the divided tendon of the external oblique. 1 On comparing the two operations, it would appear that the principal dis- I advantage of Abernethy’s is, that it is apt to leave a tendency to hernial pro- j tnision, in consequence of the abdominal wall being much Aveakened by the j free incisions that are necessary through the muscular planes ; the gveat I advantage attending it is, that the external iliac may be ligatured at any part i of its course, and that, if requisite, the incision may be extended upwards, [ and the common trunk secured. In Sir A. Cooper’s operation, the line of incision lies directly across the com-se of the epigastric artery, which, as well as the circumflex ilii, if it arise high, and the circumflex vein, which crosses the i iliac artery at this point, and is often someAvhat funnel-shaped, may be in danger : of being wounded. The spermatic cord is likewise somewhat in the way in this operation. Dupuytren actually AA’^ounded the epigastric artery in one case ; i and Houston had much difficulty from the circumflex vein in another instance. ! This operation has also the disadvantage, that the incision upwards cannot be i conveniently prolonged so as to deligate any portion of the vessel except that ! which lies immediately above the crural arch ; but the peritoneum is less dis- tarbed than in the other case, and there is less tendency to hernial protrusion ! afterwards. As a general rule, I think we may conclude that, in cases of spon- ! taneous aneurism, in which it might, from the size of the tumour or the diseased I state of tlie vessels, be found necessary to apply the ligature to a higher point tlian was intended before the operation commenced, it will be safer to have I recourse to Abernethy’s plan, modified as above described, for in this way Ave I shall 1x3 able to ligature the vessel at any part of its course ; Avhilst in cases of h£eniorrhage after amputation, or of traumatic femoral aneurism, in A\dnch the artery is not likely to be diseased, recourse should be had to Cooper’s operation, more particularly if the patient be thin, and the abdomen flat. In connection Avith the ligature of the external iliac artery, there are some practical points that deserve mention. Before the operation, the colon should be emptied by means of an enema, and the pubes shaved. The incision in tlic abdominal wall must be sufficiently extensive.