DEFORMITIES. 512 1870 Ogston performed, for the first time, the operation of sawing off the inner condyle obliquely by means of an Adams’s saw (Fig. 5!)8), introduced obliquely through a puncture made in the skin above the inner condyle. In 1878 Macewcn modified the operation by removing a wedge-shaped piece of bone ill the line of Ogston’s saw cut, but Avithout penetrating so deeply as the articular cartilage, and Reeves at the same time suggested dividing the condyle with a chisel stopping just short of the cartilage. In 1878 Barwell, regard- ing the deformity not merely as a lengthening of the inner condyle, but as an obliquity of the whole lower epiphysis, divided the femur by a chisel a little above the epiphysis from the outer side, and subsequently after some Aveeks diAuded the tibia and fibula in the same way about one inch below the articular surfaces. Lastly, Macewen introduced the method of dividing the femur only immediately above the epiphysis, and, at the present time, this method is almost universally adopted in preference to all others. It has the great advantage of being simple and easy of performance, free from danger, and of not implicating either the epiphysis or the joint. The operation is thus performed. The limb should be laid on its outer side on a bag of wet sand. While the limb is extended a point is taken slightly above the level of the upper margin of the patella, and a longitudinal incision is made in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, the middle of the incision corresponding to that point. The length of the incision is slightly Fig. 632.—Knock-knee. a. line of division in Macewen’s operation. Z). in Ogston’s operation. greater than the breadth of the chisel O Fig. 633.—Mac- ewen’s Chisel. to be used. The scalpel must be carried directly down to the bone. The chisel is then inserted and turned, so that its cutting edge is at right angles to the incision and to the shaft of the femur. The femur is then divided for more than two-thirds of its thickness, the chisel being taken in and out of the wound as little as possible. The cut in the bone must be parallel to the articular surface of the femur, AAdiich will be more oblique than natural, owing to the abnormal length of the inner condyle. The anterior and posterior layers of compact tissue must not be neglected, and when chiselling the posterior extra caution must be used lest the chisel should be driven into the popliteal vessels. When two-thirds of the bone have been divided the remainder is fractured. If the patient be fully groAATi, and the bone of some size, two or three chisels may be used successively, the first being the thickest. The operation should be jAerformed with all antiseptic precautions, and an antiseptic dressing applied after it. Macewen has always