SUBCLAVIAX—OTHER MODES OF TREATMENT, 201 part of the operator can in any way lessen, and wliicli, in my opinion, ought certainly to cause the operation of ligature of the subclavian in the first part of its coni’se to be banished from surgical practice, unless further experience shows that absorbable ligatures can be applied with certainty in such a way as to occlude the artery without division of its coats. The method of operating that has been most commonly adopted is the same as that already described for ligature of the root of the carotid. ■ T\' lien the vessels are exposed, the jugular vein is drawn outwards with a copper spatula, and the subclavian is thus brought into view. The needle is passed from below upwards. AVhen an aneurism is situated on the subclavian artery, in the pos- terior inferior triangle of the neck, it is necessarily impossible to ligature that vessel beyond the scalenus, as there would not be sufficient room for the exposiu'e of the artery, which, even if laid bare, would in all pro- bability be found in too diseased a condition to bear the application of a ligature. Thus it will be seen that, in every case, except Smyth’s, in which an aneurism of the subclavian artery has been subjected to operation, whether by ligature of the brachio-cephalic or of the subclavian itself intermil to the scaleni, the result has been a fatal one. As this unfortunate termination is in no way to be attributed to want of skill on the part of the operators,—who have been, without exception, men gTeatly distinguished for the possession of this very quality,—but is dependent solely on certain anatomical peculiarities in the arrangement of these vessels, by which their successful ligature has been rendered all but impossible, a repetition of these attempts, which may hasten the patient’s death, can at present scarcely be considered justifiable. What then are we to do ? Are we to leave patients labouring under aneurism of the 8ul)clavian artery to inevitable death, without making an effort to save them ? Or does surgery ofler other modes of treatment besides those just mentioned, by which we may hope to aiTive at more successful results ? Without mentioning direct pressure, manipulation, or galvano-puncture, which are certainly deserving of further trials in combination with appropriate constitutional treatment, three modes of treatment present themselves :— 1. Compression of the Artery where it passes over the First Rib, and conse- quently on the Distal Side of the Tumour. 2. liigature of it on the Distal Side, above or below the Clavicle. Jl. Amputation at the Shoulder-joint, and Distal Ligature of the Artery. 1. Compression of the Artery on the Distal Side of the Sac could be effected only where it crosses the first rib, and consequently would be appli- cable only to uneunsms of the first ])art of this vessel. ’Phis plan has never been tried : partly, perliaps, on account of the difficulty in applying pressure ni this situation, and partly, probably, on account of the want of success that