VJ lUGOCELE. 1165 the tumour, become iiucoiitrollable. In one instance I have known fatal con- )^'Sequences from this cause to ensue in half an hour after making an incision 11 into the tumour and turning out the coagula. When, however, the disease .4 has reached a chronic stage, and is no longer increasing, it may be incised ; j and, its contents being turned out, the cavity may be allowed to suppurate and : -gianulate. VABICOCEIiE. Viu'ix, or Enluryement of the Spmnatic Veins, is a disease that is commonly met with fi’om the age of puberty to about the thirtieth year, seldom com- mencing later than this. It usually occurs in feeble individuals having the ■scrotum lax and pendulous ; and in some cases appears to have been brought on by venereal excesses. The spermatic veins, extending as they do from opposite the lumbar vertebra) to the plexus pampiniformis, which constitutes the base of the pyramidal tumour formed by a fully developed varicocele,, are necessarily subject to considerable tension from the Aveight of so long a column of blood as that contained within them, to which they eventually yield, becoming much dilated and tortuous. The left spermatic veins are far more frequently affected than the right; owing partly to their compression by feculent accumulations in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and possibly in part to the obstacle at the mouth, occasioned by their pouring their contents intO' the left renal A'cin, at right angles to the current of blood flowing through that vessel into the vena cava. The right spermatic veins ai-e rarely affected and never, I believe, without those on the left side participating in the disease. In the.se cases of double varicocele, the left is almost invariably the more seriously affected ; but I have seen exceptions to this in one or rivo instances, in Avhich the A’eins on the right side formed the larger tmnour. Symptoms.—The symptoms of varicocele consist of a tumour of pyramidal shape, having a soft knotted or knobbed feel, ov/ing to the irregularly SAVollen and convoluted condition of the veins, Arith its base upon the testis and the apex stretching up to the external ring. The SAvelling increases AAdien the patient stands up, if he take a deep inspiratiou, cough, or make any violent exertion. Its size varies from slight fulness of the veins to a large mass, several inches, in circumference at the base. AVhen the patient lies doAvn, it goes up to a certain extent, Imt immediatelv returns to its former magnitude Avhen he stands up. It is attended by a sensation of AA’eight and sometimes of pain, Avhich is occasionally very acute, of a severe and neuralgic character, even in the scrotum, the gi’oins, and the loins, more particularly AA'hen the tumour is unsupported. 'J’his pain is greatly increased on the patient Avalking or riding ; so much so, that in some cases he is almost debarred from taking iiecessaiy exercise, and is prevented from folloAA-ing any active occupation. Debility of the generative organs, Avith a tendency to seminal emissions and much mental depression, fre<picntly accompanies varicocele. Atrophy of the testicle is sometimes found associated Avith varicocele, and is IxjlieA'ed to be dei)cndcnt upon it. I’hc rupture of a varicocele may occur from external injury, giving rise to an enormous extravasation of l)lood into the areolar tissue of the scrotum. Of this I'ott relates a case. I have knoAvn the accident to be jittendcd Avith fatal consequences. A man Avho, to use his oavu expression, “ had l>een romping Avith his wife,” receiA'cd a bloAV on a varicocele, when an enoimous extravasation of blood rapidly formed in the scrotum and