48o diseases of SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES, AND OF MUSCLES. 2. Enlargements.—We now proceed to tlie consideration of tlie second variety of disease of the bnrsa patellae—that in which there are no evident sig-ns of inflammation, but in which there is enlargement .of the bursa, owing to the accumulation within it of bursal fluid, of this fluid mixed with solid bodies, or of solid fibroid deposits. Simple Enlargement, or Dropsy of the Bursa.—Y.\\q bursa may present a simple eulargemeut, dependent on the accumulation of fluid in its interior. Continued pressure exercised upon the bursa, as in kneeling, is the common cause of this affection ; hence it frequently occurs amongst housemaids, and constitutes the true “ housemaid’s knee.” But it is also common amongst other people, whose vocation necessitates long-continued kneeling. One case of the affection in University College Hospital was in a carpet-layer ; it was to all intents and purposes a “ housemaid’s knee.” A man, aged thirty, who, in consequence of habitually kneeling upon the left knee in laying down carpets, had a tumour there as large as an orange, indolent, soft, and fluctuating, evidently an enlarged bm’sa, was admitted into the Hos])ital. It was tapped by means of a trocar, clear fluid was drawn off, and a seton was passed through the cannula, and left in for six or seven days. Suppuration took place along the seton, the tumour collapsed and contracted, and the patient left the Hospital, cured, on the twelfth day. The Treatment of these tumours is very simple. If the effusion has taken place somewhat rapidly, and distinctly in connection with some injury, the ap- plication of tincture of iodine or a blister, will succeed in inducing absorption of the contained fluid. When the disease is more chronic, these usually fail. The fluid may then be withdrawn by means of the aspirator and pressure ap- plied with an india-rubber bandage. If this does not succeed a simple and suc- cessful mode of treatment consists in tapping the sac with a trocar, and passing a seton through the cannula, either by means of a long straight needle, or by using an eyed probe, and cutting down upon the end of it with a scalpel. The seton-threads should be left in until they excite free suppuration and then be withdrawn. The only risk of this treatment is that more pus may form than can readily drain away by the apertiu’es through which the seton passes, and consequently a septic abscess of the bursa may result, requiring a free incision for its relief. In order to avoid this risk antiseptic drainage may be substituted for the seton. A small puncture is made, and an india- rubber drainage tube inserted with all antiseptic precautions. In many cases a week or ten days’ drainage will suffice to correct the tendency to over-secre- tion without any inflammation or suppuration being set up. The result is, however, made more certain by exciting a slight degree of simple inflamma- tion by injecting the cavity at the time the tube is inserted with carbolic a-cid lotion (1 in 20), or solution of chloride of zinc (20 gr. to 5j), or tincture of iodine. Chronic Enlargement with Melon-seed bodies.—The next affection to which the bursa patellm is liable is closely allied to the last, and appears to be an advanced degree of it. It consists in a chronic enlargement of the bui’sa, the coats of which are more or less thickened. The contents of the bursa, so enlarged, consist of a dark fluid, in which float a number of smooth oval bodies, of the size and shape of melon-seeds. I have seen this condition in both the male and the female. It may be distinguished from simple enlargement of the bursa, by the peculiar crackling sensation which is communicated to