u any ARY calculus and jatiiotiuty. 1004 Accidents in Lithotrity.—Tn considering tlie accidents in lithotrity, 1 put out of consideration tliose that may arise from the Surgeon acting care- lessly, or with improper force, and thus occasioning laceration of the uretlira, or injury to the coats of the bladder ; so also accidents occurring from the bending or breaking of the instruments will scarcely happen, if these have Fig. S98.—Sir H. Thompson’s Ecarly Evacuator. Fig. 899.—Sir H. Tliompson’s Improved Evacuator. been properly tested on a piece of sandstone grit before being employed in the bladder. Impaction of Angular Fragments of Stone in the Urethra.—This most dangerous and painful accident was not uncommon in the old system of lithotrity. In modern lithotrity it can happen only if a large fragment has been accidentally left behind or if from any cause the operation has to be left incomplete. If there is any reason to believe that fragments are left in the bladder the patient must be kept in a recumbent position, as impaction most commonly arises from the jiatient moving about too much or straining to pass water in an ujiright position. The lodgment of a fragment not only occasions great local irritation, ending perhaps in cystitis or abscess, but may give rise to severe rigors and nervous prostration. The fr-agmeuts are especially apt to lodge in the prostatic urethra, or about the bulb, and there give rise to a very gveat degree of irritation, and even of fatal mis- chief, producing great constitutional disturbance of an irritative and asthenic type. When the pieces are impacted low down in the urethra, it is absolutely necessary to remove them from the canal as speedily as possible, lest the consti- tutional disturbance occasioned by them prove fatal to the patient. This may be done in various ways. Most frequently, they may be pushed back into tlie bladder, by passing a large catheter carefully down to them. The most con- venient instrument for this purpose is oue that is open ended, so that the fragment may be received in the aperture at the end of the instrument, and so pushed on before it. Through such a catheter as this a stream of water may