44 DISEASES OF THE LYMPIIATIG SYSTEM. tlie disease. In some instances, as by Bryant, Buclianan, and Simon (of ; Heidelberg), the external iliac has been advantageously tied. 1'he operation on this artery has the recommendation not only of being completely above the limits of the disease, and consequently in parts that are quite healthy, but also of more completely controlling the nutrition of the limb than can be done by ' ligature of the superficial femoral. j Eppner in 1881 collected the records of 49 cases of elephantiasis treated by ligature of the main artery leading to the diseased part. In 40 of these the femoral was tied ; in 5, the external iliac ; in 2, the popliteal; in 1, the j anterior tibial, and in 1, the brachial. Of these 31 are reported to have been cured, 3 relieved, 1 unrelieved, and 5 died. Of the cases reported as cured 9 subsequently relapsed. The result of the operations appears to have been fairly encouraging, although in a certain number of cases it is evident that little, if any, improvement took place. LYMPHADENITIS, OR INFLAMMATION OP THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Acute Inflammation of the Lymphatic Glands almost invariably i results from the irritation of some noxious material conveyed to them by ' the lymphatic vessels. The lymphatics through which it passes on its way to the glands may themselves be inflamed, but more frequently they escape. This fact would seem to indicate that in the majority of cases . the irritating matter is particulate and not in solution. As we know from ' experiment that solid particles pass readily through the lymphatic vessels without lodging, but are arrested in the lymphatic glands. In every acute inflammation the quantity of lymph passing through the glands in connexion with the affected area is greatly increased. In simple inflam- mations in a healthy subject this causes slight swelling, which subsides as ' soon as the cause is removed ; but in scrofulous subjects, as before pointed ^ out, there is a peculiar tendency to inflammation of the lymphatic glands jl from slight causes, and in them the swelling may persist and may pass on to ;| suppuration or clnronic inflammation. In infective inflammations the inflam- 1 matory products contain the special virus to which the inflammation is due, II and this being carried by the lymph-stream to the glands may excite a similai’ || process in them. Many specific inflammations are accompanied by the || presence of microscopic organisms of a definite form in the exudations, and ;| in such cases the organisms can frequently be demonstrated by the microscope I after death in the lymphatic glands nearest to the seat of the disease. As a I rule the secondary inflammation in the glands closely resembles in character I that at the primary, seat of disease. I Thus, in cutaneous erysipelas, the glands ai’e invaiiably swollen and tender, I but seldom suppurate ; in soft chancres, suppuration commonly takes place ; jl and in diphtheria, the glands are always enlarged and painful, but pus rarely jl forms, while in scarlet fever suppuration is often very troublesome. In ffl syphilis, the change that takes place in the lymphatic glands is identical with H that occurring at the seat of inoculation ; and the same is the case in I secondary tuberculosis. H Some infective inflammations, as hospital gangrene and phlegmonous H erysipelas, have but little tendency to infect the glands. This is possibly due H to coagulation of the lymph in the spaces of the inflamed area. H