725 CYSTO-SARCOMA. the snbmammaiT areolar tissue 'will take place, leading to extensive suppu- ' ration behind the mammaiy gland, often of a most troublesome and tedious character. In cases of adeno-sarcoma 'which have been allowed to attain a very large 'Size before removal, it will generally be necessary to extirpate the whole of the mammary gland, which will be found either involved in the tumour, or in an atrophied but otherwise healthy state. It is surprising with what ease these tumoui-s can often be removed, even when they have reached some pounds in weight. They rarely form any deep attachments, aud adhere to the skin only when the tension has become so great as to set up inflammation. Cysto-sarcoma.—These tumours are composed of dense white lobulated or foliated structure, resembling that of the adeno-flbroma. This mass is ^studded throughout with a number of small cysts, varying in size from a pin’s- head to an inch aud a half in diameter, and usually containing clear fluid. The larger cysts contain lobulated, branching, intra-cystic gTowths, most commonly sprouting from one side only, and forming pedunculated projections into the cavities. These intra-cystic growths are not always present. This form of tumour is usually met with in women of fr’om thirty to thirty-five years of age, and is often attributed to injury. It occurs most fr-equently in women ■who have borne children, and is possibly a remote consequence of some inflannnatory process occumng during lactation. On examining a breast affected in this way, it will be found that the tumour is hard, heavy, and ' iolid to the feel ; on careful examination, however, its surface may be felt I 0 be finely nodulated ; and, occasionally, a larger cyst than usual, recog- i nzed by its elastic feel and globular shape, may be found projcctiim. I The disease is slow in its growth, and does not implicate the adjacent Cutaneous or areolar structures ; hence, the tumour is movable on the pectoral nusdes, and the skin is unattached to it. The axillary glands, also, are not ailarged. The nipple will usually be found to be normal in its shape, and