410 EXCISION' OF JOINTS. is required in avoidiiif? the flexor tendons, the tirteiy, and nerve, and the hone liad better be cut across with a chain-saw. Tlie periosteum should lie ssived as much as possible. The removal of the outer malleolus, or rather of the lower end of the fibula, is apt to be followed by a tendehey to twist of the foot outwards—in fact, to a kind of valgus. The Metatarsal Bones with, their Toes occasionally require removal. This is more particularly the case with the first and the fifth (p. 108, Vol. I.)'. The middle metatarsal bones cannot advantageously be taken away, leaving merely the first and last; but the two, three, or even the whole four of the external metatarsal bones may be resected in early life, and a useful foot left. Aston Key has recorded a case in which, in consequence of injury, he ampu- tated the four outer metatarsal bones, the cuboid, and the external and middle cuneiform, leaving merely the line of bones supporting the great toe. The first metatarsal bone was left, supported only by the slender articular suiface of the internal cuneiform; but it soon got firmer attachments, and a veiy good foot resulted, by which the patient retained in a great measure his elasticity of tread. ' The Phalanges and Articulations of the Toes seldom require resection; ' as a general rule, their amputation is preferable. ‘ The Great Toe not unfrequently requires removal, in whole or in part; but, as it enters largely into the formation of the arch of the foot, no more of it ^ should be taken away than is absolutely necessary. It is especially of impor- f: tance that the ball of the great toe, if possible, be preserved ; and occasionally ^ ‘ this may be effected by excision of the metatarso-phalaugeal articulation rather than by the amputation of the member. With regard to the removal of the toe and its metatarsal bone, I must refer to p. 108, Vol. I. Whenever it is practicable, the proximal end of the bone should be saved, in order that the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus may be preserved. ^ AMPUTATION IN JOINT-DISEASES. i; In those cases in which excision of the diseased joint is not advisable, iu consequence of the acute character of the articular disease, the existence not only of considerable suppuration but of great local and constitutional indtation, or the peculiar nature of the joint affected, amputation may be the sole resource left to the Surgeon. It is especially in articular disease of the fingers and toes, of the tarsus, carpus, ankle, and knee, that this operation is required; and though it is much less frequently practised now than formerly, yet the cases of destructive disease of joints requiring amputation are amongst the most frequent in operative surgery, and will doubtless contmue to be so. The Surgeon, how’ever, must be careful, whilst he avoids continuing to make in- effectual attempts to save the limb at the great hazard of the patient’s life, not to amputate until it is clear that all other means have failed ; the patient continuing to lose ground so that a further perseverance in local and constitu- tional treatment would probably end in his death, excision not being prac- ticable. So far from amputation being an opprobrium to surgery in sneh cases as these, I look upon it as one of the greatest triumphs of our art, that by a simple and easy operation, which removes the spoiled and useless limb, the life of the patient may be saved, and his health speedily restored. In amputating in cases of chronic joint-disease, in which the limb has been the seat of prolonged suppuration, it Avill be found, just as in many cases of secondary amputation after injuries, that the condition of the muscles of the I i. I; i. i V I I' i ( I: ( I < A 4 •