328 DISEASES OF JOINTS. happens that these conditions exist—the symptoms indicative of erosion of cartilage, such as painful startings of the limb, grating, and preternatural mobility of the joint, being present—and yet no abscess forms ; all the symptoms subsiding under proper treatment, and the joint recovering, though with a certain degree of ankylosis. But the reverse also may occur. Suppu- ration may take place in a joint, the synovial membrane and the capsule may give way, extensive infiltration of pus into the deep areolar planes of the limb may occur, and yet no laxity of ligament, no preternatural mobility of the bones, no grating of the osseous surface, indicate the disorganization of the articulation which is in progress. This condition may occur in any joint; I have most frequently met with it in the knee. There the upper and usually the outer part of the capsule generally gives way, and the pus diffuses itself deeply beneath the extensor muscles of the thigh, sometimes even between the periosteum and the bone. In these cases the thigh swells greatly, the limb becomes oedematous, and a deep and obscure sensation of fluctuation may perhaps be felt, more especially towards the outer and lower part of the limb just above the knee. The swelling of the joint has perhaps subsided on the escape of the pus from the cavity, giving a false idea of security, which is confirmed by the absence of signs indicative of disorganization, such as lateral mobility and grating. But on pressing the thigh downwards, the joint will be found to fill, the patella will float again, and there is an evident commimi- cation between the interior of the synovial membrane and the extensive diffused abscess in the thigh. In cases of this kind the pus will first come to the surface about two or three inches above and to the outer side of the joint; and, on a free incision being made here, immense quantities may be let out. In these cases fluctuation is often masked by the oedema of the limb, and by the thiclmess of the overlying mass of areolar tissue and muscle, and will require the closest examination and the most practised hand for its detection. After suppuration has taken place, the constitutional disturbance partakes of the irritative type, the patient suffering severe pain, and being worn out by want of rest. After the abscess is opened, unless special means are taken by drainage and antiseptics to prevent the accumulation of decomposing dis- charges in the articular cavity, septic poisoning or pygemia are very likely to follow ; or hectic leading to death from exhaustion and irritation may occur, unless the diseased part be removed. In other and less severe cases it falls into a state of chronic thickening, perhaps with fistulous openings leading down to the diseased structures ; and in some of the more favourable instances the patient may recover, with a permanently rigid joint. The muscles in the neighbourhood of an inflamed joint undergo a species of acute atrophy. The wasting and the flaccidity are both more than can be accounted for by simple disuse. In some cases the muscular changes are more than atrophic, and Rejkx paralysis of the muscles of a limb, consequent upon inflammation of a joint, is occasionally met with. I have seen this singular affection in the extensor muscles of the thigh and in the muscles of the scapula, in cases of acute arthritis. In these cases the affected muscles rapidly waste. The wasting is not due to disuse alone, for it affects certain groups of muscles only, others which are equally inactive not being atrojAied. But not only do certain gi’oups of muscles in the affected limb become wasted, as for instance the extensors of the thigh or those passing from the scapila to the humerus,