y.EVUS—TREATMENT BY LIGATURE. 73 the intervening bridge of skin, ties ratlier tightly, in a reef-knot, the two ends that are left hanging out; as soon as he has done this, he proceeds to the next two, and so on to the last (Fig. 4:27). When he ties these, he must ji do so with all his force, especially if the tumour be large, as by drawing on them he tightens all the other nooses, and drags the knots towards the centre ■ of the growth, which is thus effectually strangled. He then cuts off the tails i of the ligature. The strangulated nmvus may be punctured to diminish the size of tlie sloughing mass, and then powdered with iodoform and dressed ; with dry cotton wool, the dressing being left on till the slough separates. . After the tumour has sloughed away, Avhich happens in a few days, if it be j properly and tightly strangled, the wound is treated on ordinary principles. ^ i If the naivus be altogether subcutaneous, the skin covering it should not be • I ■ sacrificed, but, l>eing divided by a crucial incision, may be turned down in " }i four flaps, and the ligature then tied as directed. ' Ij: In some cases, the iifnvus is so flat and elongated that the application of the ■i yh quadruple ligature, as above described, cannot include the whole of it. In ( |i I these circumstances, I have found the ligature about to be described eminently ! , j useful, having successfully employed it in a great number of instances. Its j gi'eat advantage is that, while it completely and very readily strangles the j! tumour, it does not inclose an undue quantity of integument, and thus does ■ i not produce a larger cicatrix than is necessary for the eradication of the I j growth. It is applied in the following way. A long triangular needle is threaded on the middle of a piece of Avhip-cord about three yards in length ; t<i one half of this is stained black with ink, the other half is left imcoloured. ! ' The needle is inserted through a fold of the sound skin, about a quarter of an inch firom one end of the tumour, and transversely to the axis of the same. Fig. 4iS.—Uiagram of Ligature of Hat and Elongated Ntevu-s. It is then carried through, until a double tail, at least six inches in length, is left hanging from the point at which it entered ; it is next carried across the ba.se of the tumour, entering and passing out beyond its lateral limits, so as to leave a series of double loops about nine inches in length on each side (Fig. 428). Lvery one of these loops should be made about three-quarters of an inch apart, including that space of the tumour ; and the last loop should be brought out through a fold of healthy integument beyond the tumour. In this way we have a series of double loops, one ?f///7e, and the other /lar/r, on each side (Fig. 428). All the while loops should now be cut on one side, imd