SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 2 In Simple Onychia there are redness, heat, and swelling, usually on one side of the nail, and in the angle of the tissue in which it is implanted; there is discharge of pus, and tlie nail gradually loosens, becomes dark-coloured, some- what shrivelled, and may eventually be thrown off, a new nail making its appearance below, which commonly assumes a somewhat thickened and rugged shape. This disease usually results from slight degrees of violence, as the running of thorns and splinters into the fingers. The treatment consists in cutting away any part of the nail that becomes loose, so that no discharges may accumulate beneath it. The inflammation may be subdued by hot moist applications. In some cases a lotion composed of Liq. Plumb, subacetatis 3SS. rectified spirit 3]. and water to one pint, will be found most efficacious. Syphilitic Onychia is a more serious affection, and is often depen- dent on injuries inflicted on the finger during constitutional syphilis. In it a dusky-red or livid inflammation takes place at the sides or root of the nail ; ulceration is set up, accompanied by the discharge of sanious and veiy fetid pus ; and large loose granulations spring up at its root and sides, so that the end of the toe or finger that is affected (and this is most commonly either the great toe, the thumb, or the index finger) becomes greatly enlarged and bulbous in shape. The nail then shrivels, becomes brown or black, and peels off in strips (Fig. 415) ; after its separation, thick epidermic masses, forming abortive attempts at the production of a new nail, may develop at the base and sides. In the Treatment, both local and constitutional means are required. The first and most essential point is to remove tlie nail, either in whole or part, for it acts as a foreign body, and prevents the healing of the surface firom which it springs : the ulcer may then be treated with iodoform or weU rubbed with the nitrate of silver, and dressed with black wash. CoUes recommends fumi- gating it with a mercurial candle, made by melting a drachm of cinnabar and two ounces of white wax together. The constitutional treatmejit is that of syphilis. Sir A. Cooper recommends calomel and opium, but I have generally found bichloride of mercury, with sarsaparilla or cinchona, the most useful remedy. Ingrowing of the Nail is an extremely painful and troublesome affection, principally occurring in the great toe, and brought about by wearing pointed shoes, by which the sides of the soft part of the toe are pressed upon, and made to overlap the edge of the nail. An ulcer here forms, the liability to which is greatly increased by the nail being cut square, so that the flesh presses against a sharp and projecting comer of it; this ulcer secretes a fetid sanious discharge, and large granulations are thrown up by it. The conse- quence is inability to walk or even stand with comfort. Treatment.—In the very early stages before ulceration has taken place, further trouble may often be prevented by scraping the nail down along its middle with a piece of broken glass or a knife, till it is about as thin as a sheet of note paper. At the same time, its free end should be cut short in the middle, and its corners allowed to grow well beyond the matrix, so that the natural edge of the nail and not a sharp angle shall be in contact with the soft parts. When the soft pai’ts begin to overlap the nail various plans liave been Fig. 415.—Syphilitic Onychia.