TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE (ESOFHAGUS. 663 ill the stoinacli. In the malignant stricture, if an instrument be passed, it seems to pass over a rough and ulcerated surface, causes bleeding, and the patient coughs up blood, or blood and pus, mixed often ivith shreds of tissue— conditions all indicating a loss of substance (Fig. 745). There is also, some- times, an ovoid or elongated sivelliiig at the root of the neck; the neighbouring glands may be affected; there may be cancerous tumours elsewhere ; and the symptoms of the cancerous cachexia may be present. The special causes of ; cancer of the cesojihagus are not known. Tueat:uext.—The treatment of stricture of the oesophagus will depend ipon its nature. In the hysterical variety^ the occasional introduction of a full-sized oesophagus-bougie, the application of belladonna to the neck, and anti-hysterical treatment generally, iron, aloetics, douches, and diverting the patient’s mind from her malady, are the means to be employed. In such eases, Gan-od has very advantageously em- ployed large doses of assafoetida. The treatment of organic stricture ■ is more difficult. In it, care should be taken that the patient lives chiefly upon nutritious slops, or upon meat that has been well chopped up, as larger frag- ments are apt to become impacted at the seat of constriction. The difiiculty in deglutition will, however, gi-adually in- crease, the patient being first unable to swallow solids, then being reduced to pulpy food, and at last to liquids. After a time, he will not even be able to swallow' chis; and then it becomes necessary for the Sm-geon to feed him by the intro- |: luction of a gmn-elastic catheter through the stricture, and the injection of a suffi- tcient quantity of liquid or semi-pulta- ceous nourishment into the stomach twice i day. After a few w'eeks, the irritation Induced by the repeated introduction of <45.—Epithelioma of Pharyiixand acsopimgus the catheter w'lll render its passage more ind more difficult, until at la.st it becomes impossible to get it through the constriction. I he jiatient may still be kept alive for some weeks by nutritive cnemata, but at last dies of starvation. Even in cancerous stricture of the 'Xsophagus, death seldom occurs by secondary deposits, or by constitutional contamination, but in the way just pointed out. In some cases the disease extends to the posterior part of the larynx, the mucous membrane covering the arytamoid cartilages and the epiglottis becomes involved, laryngeal stridor and lyspiKua ensue, and death may result from laryngeal spasm, unless life be pro- longed by tracheotomy, which in many cases becomes necessary. Such is the miserable coui-sc and termination of an organic stricture of the -resophagus. But the question now presents itself, can nothing be done to cure or even arrest this disease ?