DEFORMITIES. 530 of the short flexor and adductor of the great toe, the toes assume the constrained position of a claw, the first phalanges arc extended upon the metatarsal bones, and the last two phalanges flexed upon the first. This gives i-ise to a variety of club-foot which Duchenne calls “hollow claw-foot.” This is often complicated by paralysis or atrophy of soifle of the muscles of the leg, giving rise to various associated forms of club-foot. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 048) shows, 1st, that the first phalanges are extended almost to the point of being subluxated upon the head of the metacarpal bone, whilst the last phalanges are flexed upon the first and form thus a claw ; 2nd, that the cur^'e of the plantar arch is considerably increased. The origin of this hollow claw foot or pes cavus is as follows. “ When the interosseous muscles are paralysed or atro- phied, the tonic contraction of the muscles which extend the first phalanges and that of the muscles which flex the last phalanges being no longer opposed, the claw-like condition of the toes gradually becomes augmented. The posterior extremities of the first phalanges are subluxated upon the heads of the metatarsal bones; then the curve of the plantar arch becomes increased and the j^lantar fascia shortened; then certain articulations and their ligaments become deformed, as in all clnb- feet.” The mechanism is exactly the same as that of the similar disease in the hand. This disease makes standing and walking very painful when too prolonged ; for this reason, that from the position of the toes and from the increased arch of the foot, the whole pressure in walking is borne npon the heel and upon the skin covering the unnaturally prominent heads of the metatarsal bones, which latter becomes tender in consequence, especially that over the great toe. In the case from which the drawing was made, the disease was congenital, ; but did not trouble the patient till he was ten years old. When he was ■ apprenticed, a long walk always gave him pain, and at last he was obliged to | lie up about one week in every month to get rid of his pains. Both feet were i affected, but the left much less than the right. By galvanic examination, ■ irritability was found to be entirely lost in the right interossei and very { much diminished in the left. I The disease is always accompanied by a tendency to talipes equino-varus, “ that is to say, the flexion of the foot upon the leg during walking is incom- plete, and during this flexion of the foot the tibialis anticus (flexor adductor) has a predominance of action over the extensor longus digitorum (flexor and al)ductor of the foot) ; or in other words, during flexion, the sole of the foot is turned slightly inwards and the dorsum outwards.” This is accounted for by considering the unfavoui’able conditions in which the long extensor of the toes is placed after paralysis of the interossei. The inferior attachment Fig. 648.—Hollow Claw-Foot, pes cavus.