i i i .4 i J jk I R.C.P. EDINBURGH LIBRARY R26923J0236IDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b219227311 1LECTURES AND ESSAYS o» THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY.’'ILECTUEES ESSAYS 18 7 1. OV THl 4 SCIENCE AND PRACTICE o? SURGERY. »T ROBERT McDonnell, m.d., f.rs. riLLOW Of TBI lOTAl COLLIOB Of SCBOfOIIS IW IKBLABD; UmBBB Of TH« BUTAL IB18B ACAOBBT, OJT* Of TKl BOOBOlfB TO DO CTO B STBITIBb' HOBflTAL, DCBLUr, XTC. I’ART I. CLLNTCAL LECTUUKS ON VENEREAL DISEASES, DUBLIN : FANNIN AND «)., 41, GRAFTON-STHEET, LONDON: LONGMANS, GUEE;N, READER, AND DYER.PRnrTID BT R B. WBBB AK1> 803T, 74f KIDBtB ABBBT'STRBBT.PREFACE. The author has been frequently solicited by his pupils to publish his lectures in a form which would place them Avithin the reach of those Avho have not ready access to the medical journals in which many of them originally appeared. Although gratified by the request, he hesi- tated to comply with it from the feeling that some of what he had Avritten AA'as designed simply for students, AA hile a part aimed higher, and was designed to introduce to the notice of his brother practitioners something Avhich he conceived to be of scientific as Avell as practical novelty. He noAv proposes to OA'^ercome this difficulty by publishing his Lectures, as Avell as his practical and scientific Essays, in separate parts, so that those Avho please may obtain any one part AA'hich may have a special interest for them.VI PREFACE. The autlior lias always agreed witli the illus- trious Marshall Hall in thinking that “ to be good practitioners, we should strive to be good ph3'’siologists,” and he attaclies an extreme value to the works of those who like Marshall Hall, Robert Todd, Sir B. Brodie and others, are in themselves connecting links between science and practice. The best preparation for tlie study of the phenomena of disease is the careful study of the phenomena of life and health. l^ractitioners are every day becoming more learned in physiology, and more anxious and better able to apply physiological ideas to the practice of their art ; therefore they may be the more willing to excuse the apparent incon- gruity of a work consisting, when complete, of physiological and practical elements apparently little related to each other. Each part, how- ever, the author hopes to make more or less complete in itself. 14, Lower Perabroke-street, Dublin, January, 1871.CONTENTS. LECTURE I.—Introduction.—Gonorrhoea. — Simple venereal sore. — Syphilitic sore.—Three forms of syphilitic sore : 1st. Dry papule ; 2nd. Chancrous erosion ; 3rd. Hard sore. —Question of incubation.—Question of auto-inocubility.— Question of abortibility.—Mixed chancre. — Question of unity or duality of the syphilitic poison. Pages 1 to 34 LECTURE II.—Diathesis.—Toxaemia.—Is sv])hilis a diathesis? —Is sj-philis a taxsemia ?• -C'lassihcatiou of syphilitic symp- * toms ?—Views of Ricord, Baerenspruug, Virchow, Lan- cereaux, Diday, Carmichael. — Influence of mercury on syphilis and on the constitution. ... Pages 35 to GO LECTURE III.—Constitutional manift^statious of syphilis.— Distinct and successive features of syphilis, adopting Diday’s pliases : 1st. Contaminating cause ; 2nd. First incul>atiun ; 3rd. Primitive lesion ; 4th. Second incubation; 5th. Prodix>- mata ; 6th. First outbreak of constitutional symptoms ; 7th. Glandular aflections ; 8th. Successive relays of symjitoms.— Cases.— Calomel not abeorbe<l by the unbroken skin. Pjiges 61 to 84 LECTURE IV.—Treatment of syphilis.—Syphilisation.—Has syphilisatiou any curative effect ?—Preventive treatment of syphilis.—Hygienic treatment of syphilis.—Local treatment of sy])hilitic symptoms.—Iodine.—Mercury.—Does it act in a way detrimental to the constitution ? Pages 85 to 108 LECTURE V.—Of the use of mercurials in the treatment of syphilis: 1st. Locally ; 2nd. As Alteratives ; 3nl. As produc- ing constitutional effects.—How do practitioners, in the pre- sent day, treat venereal ulcers.—Conclusion. Pages 109 to 13.31 LECTURES oir VENEREAL DISEASES. LECTURE I. Gentlemen, The range of your studies offers few sub- jects at once so interesting and so perplexing as that of venereal diseases. The commonness of these‘complaints, the formidable aspects they not unfrequcntly assume, invite your attention; while you must be struck by the difference of opinion which exists, and has long existed, even among the greatest writers who have treated of this subject. The teaching of the leading syphilographers of France, Germany, and Eng- land are far from being in harmony with each other. This work which I hold in my hand, the recently published report of a committee appointed to inquire into the pathology and9 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. treatment of the venereal disease, strikingly attests what difference of opinion still exists among British surgeons upon this subject. You yourselves are well aware how varied is tlie doctrine inculcated in different hospitals ; nay, even in the same wards, you often find tliat the surgeon you follow to-day holds views different from him you may follow to-morrow. In this hospital you have excellent oppor- tunities afforded you for studying these com- plaints ; for in the year 1820, when the Lock Hospital of this city was, at the request of the government, closed against the reception of male cases, provision was made in this hospital for the treatment of male venereal patients, and this practice is still continued. It is only of late years that it can be said that venereal complaints have been studied with anything like scientific accuracy. It was a say- ing of our forefathers, si in dubio, suspice vene- rem, and what Hunter wrote nearly one hundred years ago is indeed applicable to-day, “ There is even at this day hardly any disease that the practitioner is puzzled about, but the venereal comes immediately into his mind ; ” and this tendency to regard every obscure symptom as3 LECTURE I. in some way connected with venereal disease lias been one of the greatest obstacles to its elucidation. But, with regard to syphilis, as in the working out of many other scientific problems, the chief difficulties which have obscured the field of investigation have been the preconceived no- tions which possessed the mind of the investi- gator. For, in the first place, maladies wliich we now-a-days regard as several distinct diseases were formerly confounded with each other, because they were all supposed to have one and the same origin—to spring from one and the same poison. In tlie second place, it was an idea handed down from master to pupil for centuries, that unless stayed in its progress by the most active treatment, sypliilis was a com- plaint which would go on slowly but surely from bad to worse. Beginning like a snowball rolling down the mountain side, it would end in the avalanche sweeping all before it ; com- mencing, in fact, in a little sore not bigger than a pea, that it would by degrees attack the glands, the throat, the skin, later the bones and vital organs, and finally, “ having retreated to its last citadel, the head, and like a skilful 1*LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 4 general broken down the bridge beliind it,” it would bring down the feAv hairs which still remained with sorrow to the grave. The natural result of this belief regarding the pro- gress of syphilis was tliat it was attacked in the most furious manner by the most violent reme- dies, and tlie monster-malady was so defaced and disfigured, as to be made a thousand-fold more hideous than nature had made it. Under these circumstances it was difiicult to recognize tlie true features of the complaint. It was as though an astronomer should attempt to map out the spots upon the sun when the sky was overcast by clouds, or an artist to take a like- ness from a distorted image seen reflected in a silver dish-cover. Thanks, however, to the re- searches of later times, many of the clouds have been cleared away, although much remains for you yet to do. One group of investigators has placed in their true light the several dis- tinct diseases which until lately were eon- founded together ; while another, by studying the progress of syphilis when allowed to run on in its own course, not interfered with by the action of so-called specifics, has tried to give us a correct image of the monster in his naturalLECTURE I. 5 state. It is true, Caliban is an unsightly beast at the best, yet he appears now a-days to be a less formidable enemy to contend with, tlian wlien it was more the fashion to goad him into fury with weapons which, in general, only for a time subdued him, and often only enraged without overcoming him. In collecting the evidence upon which our judgment is to be formed upon tins subject, we must be guided— Firstly, by the opinions of persons who have given close attention and study to the subject : Secondly, by facts, observations, and expe- rience recorded by truthful observers : And, thirdly, by the facts and cases which have occurred under our own eyes. AVc shall first examine the opinions of some of the most distinguished writers of the i)resent day, and in doing so I shall draw my evidence for the most part from the report already alluded to, from the recently published work of Lance- reaux, and from the works of I^e, Virchow, and Didav. The illustrious Hunter, as you are no doubt aware, was led by observation and experiment to the erroneous conclusion that gonorrhoeaG LECTUllES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. and cliaricre were the effects of the same poison. Later, Mr. Abernethy fell into the equally great error of believing that diseases which got well without the use of mercury were not syphilitic. As some confusion has arisen among writers on this subject from the nomenclature of these diseases, I would propose that hereafter clinical teachers in this country should adopt the names used in the report of the Venereal Committee. According to this report, venereal disease pre- sents itself in two forms—gonorrhoea, and sores or ulcers. Of venereal sores or ulcers tliere are two species, one of which affects the consti- tution, while the other docs not. They are termed syphilitic and simple. It is a pity that the term “ small pox ” is pre-occupied. If we could call the syphilitic sore the “ great,” and the simple venereal sore the “ small ” pox, we should at least have good Saxon words to indicate the formidable pro- portions of the one disease as compared with the other. Indeed they might be very well designated on this principle—“ the big and the little pox ”—were it not that in truth we have too many names already.LECTURE I. AVe find then in actual existence three venere- al diseases: 1st, gonorrhoea; 2nd, the simple vene- real sore ; and 3rd, the syphilitic venereal sore. Of gonorrhoea I speak merely to say that the opinion of Hunter, tis to the identity Gonorrba?a, , i • i i ot gonorrhoea with otlier venereal diseases, is now I believe universally aban- doned. Even before his time, in 1767, Balfour maintained that gonorrhma and syphilis were distinct maladies, and this view was afterwards advocated by Ellis, Duncan, Bell, and Bosquillon. It remained, liowever, for Hernandez, Cock- burn, M’Gregor, Hennen, and Guthrie to estab- lish this proposition, which has been verified, and, in short, clearly demonstrated as a fact, by the experiments of Ricord and Rollet. The co-existence of urethral chancre witli gonorr- hoea, or the fact of an urethral chancre being mistaken for gonorrhoea, was, no doubt, one of the chief causes which rendered it difficult to establisli, with absolute certainty, a fact which now appears to us so very simple. The simple venereal sore wliich, by various The sinijjle writers, has been described as false syphilis^ local syphilis, soft chancre, snppuratiny chancre, non-infectiny chancre, chan-8 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. croid^ chancrelle, is now regarded as a local disease incapable of infecting the constitution. Its influence, in fact, never extends beyond tlie inguinal glands. It is, however, emi- nently contagious, producing sores like itself. It is the most common form of venereal sore. Very often several such sores occur upon the same subject. The pus which gives rise to it retains its influence for a long time. Ricord lias inoculated successfully with pus preserved for seventeen days. It begins in a pustule ; its edges are perpendicular, as if punched out. For a time it tends to spread superfi- cially. It secretes pus freely, .and, generally speaking, is as soft as the parts around it—so much so, that if the eyes were shut, one could rarely discover by the touch the situation of the sore. But descriptions of it are unneces- sary. You must learn its appearance from seeing and examining it, and of this you have o})portunities every day. The syphilitic sore—which is also known as The Syphili- Syphilis, the Hunterian chancre, tic sore. indurated or hard chancre, the non- suppuratincf chancre, the infecting chancre—is the disease which is the forerunner of constitutional9 LECTURE I. syphilis. From the names which have been given to it, you may infer some^of its most marked characteristics—that it was recognised and described by Hunter ; that it has often liardiiess at the base; that it does not suppurate easily ; that it infects the system ; that it alone is really deserving of the name of syphilis. The hardness around its base is its most marked characteristic. Any one familiar with this symptom could diagnose it blindfold. Al- though its most marked symptom, yet this peculiar hardness is not always present. Fortunately for mankind, this—the big pox —is less common than the simple venereal sore. According to the report of the Venereal Committee, the proportion is about four simple to one syphilitic. Puche found in 10,000 sores, 8,04.5 simple sores, 1,955 syphilitic. Fournier has seen in 341 sores, 215 simple sores, 126 syphilitic. It appears to be agreed therefore, on all hands, that the simple ulcer is much the com- moner disease ; for these statistics harmonize10 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. very well with those of our own naval and military authorities. In short, it may be stated in general terms, that out of every five persons who come to consult you, having ulcers on the genitals, not more than one will have that kind of sore which is the forerunner of secondary s}'philis. The syphilitic sore is said to occur under rr, t three forms. Firstly, that of a dry lliree forms ’ •' of syphilitic papule; secondly, the chancrous erosion ; and, thirdly, the hard chancre. I have already told you that the hardness, although an important symptom of the syphilitic sore, is not one which is invariably present; if it were so, the diagnosis of true syphilis would be a comparatively easy matter. But the truth is that, in the first two forms just mentioned the characteristic hardness is want- ing, and this is, no doubt, one of the causes why the infecting form of the disease was so long confounded with the local one. You may ask, then, arc we able in practice to distinguish with certainty the simple from the syphilitic sore ? Can we, when *we see a patient for the first time suffering from a venereal sore, say whether that sore will or11 LECTURE I. Avill not be the forerunner of constitutional syphilis ? In answering this question, I say without hesitation, that it is not possible for any man, however skilful or experienced he may be, to pronounce with certainty whether it will or will not be followed by constitutional symptoms; but, on the other hand, you may often make the diagnosis with the highest degree of probability. If, for instance, you find the characteristic hardness which forms if not an invariable, at least a most important, symp- tom of tlie sypliilitic sore, you may say to your patient that the chances are about a hundred to one that he will some time hence suffer from secondary sypliilis, and this opinion you may form with almost absolute certainty if you find that the hard sore is accompanied by a hard gland which rolls like a marble beneath the skin in the groin. If, on the other hand, you find several sores free from hardness, suppurat- ing freely, you may give your patient good hopes that no constitutional disease is in store for liim ; and you may be more hopeful still if you find in the groin a bubo, which, instead of being hard and indolent, runs rapidly for- ward to suppuration.12 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. Let rne advise you, liowever, in such a case not to give your patient any positive assurance that secondary disease will not follow. Tell him that he has a disease with the cliaracters of the simple venereal sore ; that you liave every reason to hope that his constitution may escape scot free. But no positive assurance—crede experto. Do not be rash, or you may rue it. Be hopeful—nothing more. We cannot make tlie diagnosis with certainty. If, on the other hand, circumstances enable your patient to fix positively the date of his impure contact ; and if a fortnight or three weeks have elapsed between that time and the day when lie perceived the sore, even although there is no hardness, you will regard the affection as probably syphilitic, and almost cer- tainly so if you have a hard gland in the groin. Of the three forms in which constitutional syphilis has been observed to commence— 1st. The dry papule appears to be the rarest, I Dry Pa- likewise the most likely to pule. escape observation. 2nd. The chancrous or chancriform erosion II. Chanc- (which was no doubt the patchy rouserosion. excoi’iation of Carmichael, and theLECTURE I. 13 superficial primary syphilis of Wallace, the parcliment chancre of Kicord, the venerola vul- garis of Evans, the condylomatous affection of Rinecker, the superficial erosion of Langlebert,) is according to Basscreau and Diday the most frequent form in which primary infecting syphi- lis manifests itself. 3rd. The indurated chancre, which, accord- III. Hard ing to Lee, is the commonest form chancre. infecting syphilis, is tlie least likely to escape observation, and certainly that in which the ultimate consequences of the dis- ease may be foretold with the greatest certainty. Many persons seem to think that the ques- tions— a.— Has the syphilitic sore a period of incubation ? }>.—Is it true that the syphilitic sore cannot be inoculated on the subject that already has one ? c.—Can a syphilitic sore be “aborted,” (and the progress of the disease cut short) by being cut out, or burned out with escharotics ? are questions only interesting in a theoretic point of view. They are, however, eminently14 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. practical. On the answers to these questions our opinion must be formed, our reasoning must be based. For if it be true that the syphilitic sore has a period of incubation—(i.e., a period of some weeks elapsing between the day of infection and that on which the sore appears) if it from that time is not re-inoculable on another part of the patient, if it is not abortible, then it follows, as clearly as possible, that in such case the so- called primary lesion is not really the primary lesion. The initial lesion must be that which takes place on the day of infection^ and at the time when the sore becomes apparent the constitu- tion is already engaged ; from that time the enemy is no longer threatening our shores ; he has crept in unknown to us and made good his footing ; he already holds the avenues leading through the frame, and the chancre is, as it were, the standard already floating on the citadel. Let us, then, examine carefully into these questions. The simple sore appears early, within three or four days after intercourse. The syphilitic sore comes on at a later period from the probable time of infection. Has it what is called a period of incubation ?15 LECTURE I. A.—Question of Incubation. The question whether there be any fixed or . Question of definite period between the expo- incuUtion. coiitagion, and the time when the sore makes its first appearance, is one of great scientific interest, and I believe one of great practical importance also. Although we have some valuable evidence upon the subject, the question may be said, however, to be one which is still suh judice. It appears to be of mucli practical importance, because if it be established that a period of some weeks must elapse between the exposure to infection and the first appearance of the disease, it becomes probable that when the disease actually becomes apparent in the form of a chancre the sysfem is already infected. Analogy would lead us to suppose that such a period of incubation does exist, as we know it does in small-pox, measles, and such complaints ; and it must follow as a corollary, assuming a term of incubation really to exist, that when the disease makes its appear- ance in the tangible form of a chancre, it is al- ready past the hope of remedy by an abortive treatment. Thanks to inoculations practised1C LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. upon hitherto healthy individuals, the incuba- tion of syphilis, which was for a long time denied by a celebrated school, has had some light thrown upon it in these latter days. However unjustifiable such inoculations may be, we may at least profit by the facts which have been thus developed. Let me first define precisely what is meant by “ the period of incubation.” By the period of incubation I wish to be understood the time which elapses from the moment of the impure contact, when the virus of syphilis is applied to the surface, until the sore, which is the forerun- ner of what is usually called constitutional sy- philis, makes its a])pearance. This period obviously corresponds with what is ordinarily called the period of incubation in other diseases. A healthy child spends an evening in com- pany with children who have just had the measles —it is taken home, and does not meet witli any other playfellows; at the end of a week it sickens, and measles declares itself in due course. This week is the period of latency or incubation. A man comes to town on the first of the month ; he has connexion, and goes back to theLECTURE I. 17 country the following day ; he washes himself, and, on examination, finds no sore existing ; days elapse, and he luis no cause of uneasiness ; circumstances preclude any possibility of doubt as to a second source of infection, yet, after a number of days, a sore makes its appearance. The days which have elapsed from the impure contact up to that on which the sore declares itself is the period of incubation. I am thus precise in defining wliat I wish to be understood by the period of incubation in syphilis, because 1 find that some authors attach a difterent meaning to tlie term. Tiiey apply it to tlie period between the time when the syphi- litic sore is observed, and that at which the se- condary phenomena declare themselves. Tliat is, as though we regarded the time from the sickening of the child up to the appearance of the rash of measles on the surface as the latent period ; but tliis is not so. Tlie latent period is in fact a period of apparent health, during which a stealthy enemy is stealing into the sys- tem ; and the immense practical im[)ortance of the subject, as regards syphilis, turns upon this, that admitting that there is a true period of incubation, the chancre is not really the primaryLliCTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 18 or initial lesion at all. The initial lesion occurs on the night of the impure coitus, and the chancre is the first of a series of constitutional symptoms. The chancre is in syphilis what the rigor, nausea, etc. are in erysipelas, and other febrile diseases. It is the first of what are now- a-days called deuteropathic phenomena ; but the original, primary, initial starting point is the reception of the poison—the moment of the impure contact. It was Alphonse Cazenave who first propound- ed the doctrine of the incubation of syphilis, in his Traite cles Syphiluhs. lie says “ Syphilis is a general disease from its commencement, which dates from the very moment at which the infecting contact occurs, as in all diseases which arc virulent (toxoGiniae), and consequently gene- ral.” Chausit and Vidal were among the earliest supporters of this doctrine, which is now admit- ted by a small number of competent observers. Although it is absolutely imp.ossible, in by far the greater number of cases, to fix, with anything like the precision which science requires, the exact date of the “ infecting contact,” yet, in the practice of everyone, cases will now and then turn up ill which, by chance, circumstances ful-19 LECTUltE I. til the requirements of science with rigid accu- racy. Such cases liave an extreme value. One single such case may serve to establish a new doctrine. Since my attention has been directed to this subject several years have elapsed, and many cases of syphilis have passed under my notice, yet in only tive instances have exceptional cir- cumstances oflfered the precision desired. Of the facts stated in the following cases I have been able to satisfy myself with a degree of certainty equal to testimony given on oath:— CASE I. A. B., aged 24 years, had been for some weeks residing in a country part of England, under circumstances which precluded the possi- bility of infection. On June 27th he went to London, and had sexual intercourse. He came to Ireland the day after, and dwelling in the country in the midst of his family led an exem- plary life. When bathing on July 23rd, he observed a small sore. Xot believing it possible that it could be connected with coitus near a month before, he did not at tirst feel any alarm. On July 31st he came to consult me. The soreLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 20 was then a cliancre with induration. In due course secondary symptoms followed. This patient was in the habit of bathing, and he is himself of opinion that he observed the sore on the da}^ on which it first appeared. As to this there can be no certainty ; but he is abso- lutely certain that for more than a fortnight after his return home there was no abrasion or exco- riation of any kind. CASE II. C. D., a young surgeon, 25 years of age. Had the dates fixed, as follows, by the accident of being at sea and touching at a sea-port:— Had connexion September 22nd. First noticed the sore on October 19th. Chancre became in- durated, and secondary symptoms supervened in February following. CASE III. E. F., 26 years of age. Had connexion on December 8th. He came under my notice on December the 14th, suffering from gonorr- hceal discharge, and covered with an eruption produced by balsam of copaiva, which he had himself taken with the hope of curing the go-21 LECTURE I. norrhoea. He got well of this eruption in a few days, and went to the country, where he lived with strict propriety. On January the 9th he again came to me, having a sore on the outside of the prepuce, and two sores behind the corona glandis. The sore on the prepuce had a hard base, like that round a boil. The other sores had as well marked hardness around the base as I have ever seen. Secondary symptoms super- vened on February 11th. CASE IV, G. II., aged 20 years. Had connexion on December I2th (having at the time gonorr- hoea, in consequence of which there had been no connexion for some weeks before). Chancre was first observed on January the 21st, the in- terval being spent as Christmas recess in the domestic circle in tlie country. The patient states positively that there was no source of contagion after December 12th, and that he, in consequence of having some remains of go- norrlicea, attended to himself, so that the sore could not have been overlooked at most for more than a few days. Secondary' eruption and sore throat on February 27th.LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 22 CASE V. J. K., age 22. Was quartered at Aldershot, and had been suffering from illness (abscess). AVent to London, and on December 1st had connexion, the first time for some weeks ; after this ffot an excoriation on the ri"ht side, behind the glans penis; this got well Avith water dressing. From that day until he came to me on January 8th is quite positive that no connexion of any kind took place. A chancre existed when I saw him, and this, he states, he first observed on January 4th. He is certain that this sore has not appeared at the site of the excoriation, but at a corresponding point on the other side, behind the glans penis. This patient came to Ireland from London ; had been living in a remote part of the country until he came to see me. The five cases here mentioned are the only cases in which, during years of attention to this subject, I have been able to get hold of my facts with the rigid precision which scientific accu- racy requires. In each one of these cases the mo- ment of connexion Avas knoAAm ; for some AA^cksLECTURE I. 23 before there was no other source of contagion; accident made sure that no infection could be communicated from the time of tlie impure con- tact until tlie sore declared itself, that is, until it was observed. Now it is obvious that a sore may exist, and for a time escape observation. The most anxious and observant patient will notice it first, so that we must always allow that in such case it will not be possible to fi.x the period of incubation to a day. Yet these cases on tlie whole correspond very accurately with those observed by others. A period of about one month lias elapsed from the time of impure connexion up to the day when the sore was observed (27, 28, 33, 41, 34 days respectively). In a case recorded by Chausit the period of incubation ran from the 21st April to May 19th —28 days. Lancereau.x details the case of a law student—a friend of his—whose residence in the countr}’, while passing his holidays with his family, after an impure connexion in Paris, fixed the time at about the* same period. He has also observed cases in which 29, 31, and 35 days was the duration of the latent period. Sigmund’s observations correspond tolerablyLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 24 closely with these, so much so that those which he accounts as having an incubation period of six weeks, or that of Alfred Fournier of 70 days, must be considered exceptional. Indeed even the case related by Bumstead, in which, under great anxiety, and the close ob- servation which probably Avas the consecpience of tliis, thirty-five clear days elapsed before any sore Avas noticed, must also be regarded as an unusually long incubation. Let us, however, compare the results of these cases Avith the results of direct experiment by inoculation of liealtliy subjects. In cases where inoculation Avith syphilitic matter has been experimentally performed (I refer to the cases of Wallace, Vidal, Necker, and others), the period elapsing from the day of actual inoculation up to that onAvhich a chancre Avas found to make its appearance, varied from 18 to 35 days, giving a mean of 27 days. In cases of inoculation directly from infecting chancres, Nollet’s case gives 18 days ; Baeren- sprung’s, 28 days ;-tind Lindwurm’s, 23 days. These cases are of course the most important of all as regards absolute precision. Being25 LECTURE I. watched from day to day, they may be consi- dered almost to fix the minimum period. To ascertain that there is positively a latent period in syphilis is a fact of importance. It is obvious that in all such contagious diseases tliere must. be disturbing causes which may tend to alter the length of this period—the ve- nom of the virus, the source from which it is derived, whether from primary or secondary syphilis ; the exact mode of its introduction, whether by simple application to the surface, or to a more or less deeply abraded surface ; its introduction at the same time with some other virus, as that of gonorrhoea or the simple vene- real ulcer. Tliese are all subjects worthy of careful research; but it may be concluded from clinical observation, as w’ell as experimental re- search, that syphilis probably has a true period of incubation, and that an infecting chancre is itself the first of a train of constitutional symp- toms.LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES, 20 I>.—Is IT TRUE THAT THE SYPHILITIC SoRE CAN- NOT, AS A RULE, RE INOCULATED ON THE BEARER ? Upon this suliject the evidence of various Question of experimentalists is tolerably clear. auto-inocu- Ricord says inoculation with the lability. . Virus ol a syphilitic sore upon a person who already bears upon him such a sore is either without result, or it produces a sore like a simple chancre. This is, indeed, the foundation of Ricord’s dogma, that a person can (as a rule) have syphilis only once. In 1855, Clerc announced that it was not possible to re-inoculate the syphilitic sore on the bearer. In 1856, Henry Lee made experiments on the subject in the Lock Hospital, London, and con- cluded “ that the indurated chancre was not capable of being inoculated upon a patient whose system was already syphilised, in the proper acceptation of the term.” Fournier inoculated 100 patients from their own syphilitic sores, but only twice produced sores like the parent sores. Puche, Poisson, Nadau have arrived at a similar conclusion, viz.27 LECTURE I. “ that the indurated chancre is not auto-inocu- lable more than twice out of 100 times.” Rollet and Laroyenne differ a little from this. They say, not more than six times out of 100. From this testimony we may conclude that, as a rule, the syphilitic sore cannot be inocu- lated upon the bearer. It is undisputed that the simple sore may be produced again and again. C.—Is THE Syphilitic Sore Abortible, that IS, CAN WE CUT SHORT THE PROGRESS OF THE DISEASE, AND PREVENT THE OCCURRENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL DISEASE BY CUTTING OUT THE SYPHILITIC SORE, OR DESTROYING IT BY ESCHAROTICS ? In answer to this question, we have the fol- lowing evidence :— Question of d. L. Petit, at the commencement abortai.ility. practice, used to excise indu- rated chancres on the prepuce. lie finally renounced this operation, as one which was found ineffectual in preventing secondary sy- philis. Diday has not succeeded in preventing con- stitutional syphilis by the destruction of the28 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. chancre by chloride of zinc and otlier caustics, even as early as from three days to twenty- four liours after tlie sore became apparent. Henry Lee’s opinion on the subject is ver}'’ decided. He says :— In the treatment of syphilitic infection cau- terization is of no avail, as far as the preven- tion of constitutional symptoms is concerned, “ The period of incubation which has elapsed before the disease manifests itself, forbids the idea that the poison can then be destroyed by the ap])lication of caustic to any particular part. “ Infecting sores that have been destroyed on the very day of their appearance have subse- quently continued to spread, and have pro- duced their natural consequence. Even if the infecting sore be cut out, the infection of the patient’s system will not thereby be prevented.” The testimony brought before the Venereal Committee has induced them to conclude that “ the application of local agents for the purpose of destroying the hard sore is useless.” Ricord practises cauterization at the first, but he admits that once the sore is recognisable by its hard base as a syphilitic chancre, the abortive method has no value. Follin justlyLECTURE I. 29 observes that no conclusion can be drawn from destruction of a sore at a time wlien it cannot be determined whether it is a simple or syphi- litic venereal sore. If, after its destruction, the patient escapes without constitutional symp- toms, it may be inferred that the sore was from the first non-infecting. It appears, therefore, that after it is recog- nisable as a syphilitic sore, it is not ubortiblc. To excise it or cauterize it is only to lock the stable-door after the horse is stolen. Among the causes which have involved the study of syphilis in doubt and darkness must be reckoned the tendency which it has to form hybrids witli other maladies. In its latter forms syphilis may be seen masked and modi- fied by scrofula, rheumatism, scurvy, gout. We know that the vaccine virus and that of syphilis may be put into the soil together—the tares with the wheat—and it is probable that venereal poisons themselves may in like manner become mixed, and thus producing a compound infection, give rise to complications of symp- toms almost impossible to disentangle.30 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. The “ cliancre rnixte ” of Kollet is, indeed, iMixed chan- Supposed to arise from tlie compound virus of tlie simple and syphilitic sore ; it does not, evidently, constitute a new disease, but it is important to recognise it, as it gives a satisfactory explanation of a number of apparently exceptional or contradictory facts. Rollet of Lyons and his school explain by the theory of the “ mixed chancre ” several phenomena otherwise out of the usual order, as we may say. Thus a chancre, to all appear- ance a simple sore, is followed by constitu- tional symptoms. Ah ! they say, it was a mixed chancre ; in tlie initial stage the disease had the character of the simple sore. A chancre, apparently altogether syphilitic, with hard base, is re-inoculated on the bearer, as may occur four or five times in one hundred. They say it was a mixed chancre. The purely syphilitic part is not re-inoculable, but of course the virus of the simple chancre is. And also suppurating bubo following a chancre, which is to all appearance a true syphilitic sore, is explained on the “ mixed theory.” We must be slow to admit such an hypothe- sis without well observed facts to support it;31 LECTURE I. yet we cannot deny the possibility, nay, the probability of a compound infection from the co-existence of the two poisons at the time of impure contact. Anotlier question of much interest connected Duiiiity of " subject of syphilis is that syphilitic concerning the unity or duality of p<jison. , . , the poison — in other words, whe- ther tlie simple sore and the syphilitic sore arise from one virus, or are due to two distinct poisons. Kicord theoretically believes in the unity of the poisons, but I may say that prac- tically he is a dualist, for he teaches that the simjde chancre may be distinguished from the syphilitic one—that secondary’ accidents follow the latter only, and for it alone he resers’cs mercurial treatment. Clerc, Diday, Kollct, Guerin, Lancercaux, and other distinguished names are found among those who believe that we have to do with two distinct poisons. For my own part, if you ask me to what conclu- sion I have come upon this subject, I shall answer you by an analogy. I should say that as in natural history 1 am a follower of the distinguished Darwin, and believe that the wolf and the dog are probably descended from aLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 32 common ancestor, although now regarded as distinct species, so it is possible that the simple and the syphilitic sore may have had in past times a common origin, but that the lapse of years and circumstances which have not yet been determined have given to them certain distinct characteristics ; so that, like the dog and the wolf, the simple and the syphilitic sores may now be regarded as specifically dis- tinct. In short, gentlemen, when we find that the usual characteristics of the syphilitic sore differ so from the usual characteristics of the simple sore, that fVe toe in the former : Almost always a solitary sore ; A hard sore; Incubation of some weeks ; Adhesive inflammation ; Incapability of inoculation up- on the pei'sou who has the sore ; Not to be destroyed by exci- sion or caustics; Constantly accompanied by indolent, hard bubo; Producing in due course se- condary symptoms; Influenced by so-called specific treatment; and We see in the latter : Very often several sores at the same time. A soft sore. No incubation. Suppurative iuflamnuition. Capability of inoculating an in- definite number of times the person who has the sore. Able to be completely de- stroyed. When accompanied by bubo suppuration soon following. Purely local in its effects. Uninfluenced by specifics.33 LECTURE I. Wheu we see all this, is it not hard to resist the conclusion that, whether arising originally from a common source or not, we have now to do with two distinct morbid principles—that small pox does not differ more from measles, the dog from the wolf, than the simple vene- real sore does from the syphilitic ? You must remember, however, that there are many distinguished authorities, and we may especially mention Melchior Robert, and Lang- lebert, who teach the doctrine of the unity of the chancrous poison ; they hold that the virus, the seed, is one and the same in all chancres ; that the conditions of the soil make the difference. Their doctrine is, that if the seed falls on uncon- genial soil, if the virus affects an individual whose peculiarity of constitution, state of health, or other circumstances render him inapt for its development, it germinates and springs up but to be blighted after a few weeks ; it produces a local sore, perhaps a suppurating bubo, nothing more. But if it falls on a soil tit for its recep- tion, it strikes root in the syphilitic sore, and flourishes, in due time to bear flower and fruit in the secondary and tertiary consequences. In attempting impartially to decide upon this34 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. question of the unity or duality of the syphili- tic poison, it appears to me that the evidence derived from the experiments of AVallace, Wal- ler, and others eannot be got over. Twenty-six times, competent observers have been guilty of the outrage on humanity of inoculating healthy persons with syphilitic poison (an outrage hardly to be justified, it is true, even by the gain to science) ; in every case where the poison took at all, a syphilitic cliancre followed, with subsequent constitutional disease. In twenty-six persons of different ages, sex, strengtli, constitution, &c., in Dublin, Prague, Lyons, Ihiris, Wurzburg, notone simple sore oc- curred with suppurating bubo, and nothing else. Now, knowing what we do about the more usual occurrence of the simple sore, are we to con- clude that, by a remarkable coincidence, all of the persons infected chanced to be fertile syphi- litic soils? or are we to believe that a syphilitic sore in every virgin soil produces its like, and that the simple sore is essentially distinct from it ? This is our dilemma, and, in the present state of knowledge, I take the latter view.[ 35 ] LKCTURE 11. Gentlemen, In my last lecture I discussed some topics relating to venereal disease in general, and while attempting to give you what appears to me a fair and impartial statement of the evidence upon these subjects, I allowed you to see the conclusions towards which I myself conceive that this evidence tends. These con- clusions were— First, that gonorrhoea, the simple venereal sore, and the syphilitic sore are diseases arising, from three distinct poisons. Secondly, that true syphilis, when propagated by contagion (that is, not hereditary) begins its inroad on the day of infection, creeps on in ambush for a fortnight or three weeks of incu- bation, then declares itself as a dry papule, a chancrous excoriation, or a hard chancre. From this time the disease is no longer capable of being cut sliort, nor is it capable of beingLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 3(5 inoculated upon another part of the individual who has it. In other words, it is not abortible, neither is it auto-inoculable. Constitutional syphilis must follow. We have, in fact, to deal with a morbid principle in the system. How are we to deal with it ? I must now ask you to turn aside with me for a time to look at some general facts with Diathesis. regard to morbid principles, and to consider the tendency which some of them have to take up a permanent residence in the frame, and the tendency of others to make a raid, and after a time disappear. I would ask you, on the threshold of this part of our inquiry, what do you mean by a diathesis ? In truth, it is a singularly indefinite term, indicating a peculiar morbid tendency in an individual. It is not a disease, but a proclivity to dis- ease of a particular kind. It is something which is handed down from parent to oft- spring for generations. Thus we speak of the scrofulous diathesis, gouty diathesis, and so forth. It is merely another word for dispo- sition, and affords little or no clue to the thing spoken of. Yet this vague and unscientific.37 LECTURE II. term, diathesis, implies the existence of a mor- bid principle in the animal economy. A man having met with a compound fracture of the leg is admitted into this hospital from the ad- joining brewery. He has been in the habit for many years of partaking largely, indeed excessively, of porter. From his appearance and his history, we know that the accident which has befallen him is likely to give rise to bad results. In fact, we say that his blood is in a bad condition. He is more liable than other persons suffering from a like accident to be attacked by erysipelas, gangrene, or pyajinia. AVe call such a condition an inflammatory dia- thesis. We recognise in this individual a mor- bid condition engendered within his frame, and apt to be called into action by the accident which has befallen him. All this is very different from what w*e ^ observe in cases where a morbid Toxaemia. principle or poison is received into the system by infection or inoculation, pro- ducing what we call toxajmia, or .a true in- toxication—a condition in which a struggle ensues betw'een the disease and the constitu- tion of the patient, and nature either succeeds38 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. • in expelling the poison, or dies in the attempt. An individual gets small-pox, measles, or ty- phus fever. At the moment when the dis- ease declares itself, a commotion takes place in the system. As soon as the constitution recovers from its surprise the struggle begins, and nature tries to drive out the intruder. Although in one sense all toxmmic maladies are true diseases, yet in another point of view they are processes of health. They are efforts of nature to restore health, and are no more diseases than parturition is a disease. The skilful midwifery practitioner takes his stand at the bedside of a patient in labour, to conduct a process of health, often fraught with danger, to a happy issue. His skill and experience have taught him to repose contidencc in nature’s efforts. He does not think of giving ergot in every case, or of having recourse to the forceps or the cephalotribe. In like manner the judi- cious medical practitioner takes his stand beside the smallpox patient, to aid nature in the ac- complishment of a certain definite object. The time has gone past for speaking of specific remedies for morbid poisons, such as produce smallpox, measles, or typhus. We no longerLECTURE II. 39 believe that there are remedies at present known, which can neutralize these poisons as an aeid does an alkali, and which can cut these diseases short. But close observation and experience have taught the medical mariner where the shoals and rocks lie hid. He has learned the days of greatest danger, the acci- dental complications, the signs of debility, and he strives, by aiding nature at those })criods, to bring his patient safely through the struggle. Now, gentlemen, the question is, does the Is syphilis syphilitic poison give rise to a diathesis i diatliesis, or is it a true intoxi- cation ? Ricord says “ that the induration of a chancre is the first symptom of a dia- thesis,” and Diday says “ it is an intoxication, not a diathesis.” I conceive that it is a mat- ter of the greatest consequence, yet a matter of the greatest ditficulty, to decide between these opposite opinions. Does the poison of syphilis give rise to a diathesis analogous to that of gout, scrofula, rheumatism, &c.? or is it a toxiemic disease—a true intoxication, a dis- ease like smallpox, tending to spontaneous cure, if nature be strong enough to expel the poison —if the human frame, like the womb of the40 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. parent, is able to expel the putrid foetus ? If the first proposition be true, there can be no inherent tendency to self-cure, for a morbid principle has entered the organism, there to reside, and this principle engendering a pro- clivity to disease of a particular kind, will be ever and always ready to lie roused into ac- tivity. True, it may lie dormant for years. It may remain in a state of quiescence while the general health is good, but if debilitating in- o o 5 D 11 Lienees, such as insufficient food or clothing, bad air, hardship or debauchery, come to lower the bodily strength, the morbid principle of syphilis may forthwith declare itself. We can never speak of recovery from a scrofulous diathesis. We can never speak of curing a gouty disposition. We can only hope that, by following certain well-known rules of conduct, we may diminish the risks to which such sub- jects are liable. If there is evidence that the morbid principle of syphilis engenders a diathe- sis, it then must fall within the same category. Just as good air, good food, cod-liver oil, iron, may be of use in keeping the scrofulous ten- dency in check, so certain remedies can exercise a great control over syphilis, may muzzle it;41 LECTURE II. but on the theory of a diathesis, neither the one nor the other can be cured. Now if, on the otlier hand, we have in com- municated syphilis a true toxcemia, we have to do with a malady which is spontaneously cura- ble ; that is to say, with one in which nature is able, under favourable circumstances, to grapple with the morbid principle, to seize the intruder by the throat, and after a longer or a shorter struggle to kick him out. If then sy- philis belongs to the latter category, we may rea- sonably hope for a complete recovery. We may speak of cure as we speak of it in any disease of the same class ; that is, we may expect that by aiding nature in the contest, we may eventu- ally bring about complete restoration to hej^lth. I have already said that the term diathesis is very vague. Perhaps some may say I am wrong in speaking of it as an incurable con- dition, but I am sure that, as the word is generally understood, I am right. You will, however, easily see the reason why some emi- nent authorities have been led to adopt, in the case of syphilis, the theory of a diathesis, while others equally eminent regard it as an intoxica- tion. The long and tedions course which tlie42 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. com[)laint runs, the disposition which it has to combine with certain known cachexias, the manner in wliich, after it has apparently gone olF, it turns, like the retreating Parthian, to take another shot ; above all, its hereditary disposi- tion have caused it, not unnaturally, to be looked upon as something very different from Ji morbid poison capable in due course of being eliminated. This view of the subject has been strengthened, no doubt, by the fact that the cachexias arising from debauched habits of life among the wealthy, misery among the j)Oor, and from prolonged and severe specific treatment for the disease itself (cachexias too frequently accompanying s}’philis, although es- sentially distinct from it), have served to mask the true nature of the comi)laint, and caused the condition resulting from the whole to be regarded as a diathesis. That syphilis is a toxa3inia, a true intoxi- Sypliilis a cation, I caiiuot doubt. Diday’s toxfemia. argument on this question appears to me unanswerable, but facts are beyond reasoning on such a subject. AVhen T see a patient with a hard chancre, accompanied by hard glands in the^groin, followed by the usual43 LECTURE II. sypliilitic sore throat, pains in the bones, affec- tions in the cervical lymphatic glands, several successive crops of syphilitic eruption on the skin ; and when I see this patient getting well, and years after married, his wife in good health, in good health himself, and the father of healthy children, “ dont il croit pieuscment etre le pere,” to use the modest expression of Gil Bias; when I know that from the first to the last he has not taken one grain of mercury, that he has been treated on the simplest principles of hygiene, how can I refuse to believe that there has been a poison which has been eliminated, and that health has been as perfectly re-estab- lished as after recovery from sinall-pox or from typhus ? This is a subject upon which I do not myself entertain the slightest doubt. I cannot expect, I do not ask you, gentlemen, to adopt my convictions. It is not from the hearing of cases, or from reading, that you can come to be thoroughly convinced upon this important point. You must get your convictions where 1 got mine, • not from the teaching of any man, but from the observation of cases about which 1 could not be deceived. Let me earnestly beg of you from this time, early in your career, to watch and note44 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. tliose cases which you may reasouably hope to follow for years. If you do so, I venture to pre- dict with the greatest possible confidence, that the time will come when you Avill hold as strong convictions as I do this moment regarding the curability of syjihilis without the use of specifics. You must not, however, suppose that because T regard syphilis as essentially a toxaiinic disease, I therefore altogether deny the existence of a peculiar cachexia in syphilitic patients. Nature has indeed a long and hard battle to fight in eliminating this poison, and the victory is often won by a constitution Avhich has been so thoroughly exhausted in the contest, that it is never good for much after. If, in addition to the exhaustion resulting from a fair fight in a constitution not naturally vigorous, we remem- ber that that there is not unfrcquently a bad condition of health resulting from the debauch- ed habits of life of the wealthy profligate, or the miseries and hardships of the poor, and if with this we connect the evil influences of treatment, which assuredly tend rather to weaken than to strengthen, we can easily account for a cachexia or diathesis being at length formed. What I wish you to understand, what I most desire to45 LECTURE II, put before you in a clear light, is that the in- toxication of syphilis and the cachexia which follows are essentially distinct—that while sy- philis itself is a true toxaemic disease, capable therefore of spontaneous cure, it is too often followed by a cachexia, in producing which de- bility, debauchery, poverty, and mercury have had, perhaps, each a share. According to Ricord, the drama of syphilis Claasificatiou 15 divided iiito three acts or of syphilitic « symptoms. parts : 1st. The primitive accident or chancre, which is the immediate result of contajrion. o 2nd. The secondary accidents or constitu- tional poisoning resulting from this infection. 3rd. The tertiary accidents, rarely showing themselves before the end of the sixth month. To these Bazin has added a fourth, which comprises the visceral lesions, and which he designates under the name of the quaternary period. I would observe, in passing, that it is much to be regretted that such terms as pri- mary, secondary, tertiary, &c. cannot be ex- punged from among the technicalities of syphilis. They imply that the syphilitic drama consists of so many distinct acts. They give the idea thatLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 4G the curtain must rise and fall so many times be- fore the play is over ; in short, that the perform- ance is still unfinished unless tertiary ami quaternary symptoms present themselves. All this tends to perpetuate, as far as nomenclature can, the old notion that syphilis of itself always gets worse, and never gets better spontaneously, liicord’s division is anatornico-chronological. He takes into account not only the time at which certain symptoms appear, but likewise considerations furifished by the state and phy- siological relation of the local aifections. He holds—although in this respect his opinions are of late somewhat modified—“ that the primary aftection alone is contagious ; that the secon- dary symptoms are not contagious but heredi- tary,” and lastly, “ that the tertiary symptoms are neither contagious nor hereditary, but that they predispose to scrofula.” German authorities do not adopt the classifi- cation of Kicord. Bacrensprung of Berlin looks at the question in an anatomico-patholo- gical point of view. He admits syphilis to have a jieriod of hypermmia and a period of tubercle. Secondary syphilis, according to him, manifests itself by inflammations limited to the superfi-LECTURE II. 47 cial layer of the coriiim (macuhii and scales), and hypertrophy, more or less considerable, of the papillae ; papulae and condyloinata, and ulcerations having a condylomatous character. Affections of the iris, the testicle, the liver, the bones, ulcerations which destroy the tissues deeply, are ranged by him among the tertiary symptoms. Sigmund of Vienna adopts a divi- sion purely clironological. Virchow, as a pa- thological anatomist, classes the symptoms of constitutional syphilis into two groups. One of these has a passive or negative character—ma- rasmus, visceral degenerations ; the other em- braces the active phenomena—various inflam- mations. Lancereau.v’s division is simple, and emi- nently practical :— 1st. The period of incubation (from the day of infection up to that on which the chancre makes its first appearance). 2nd. The period of the local eruption (dur- ing the existence of the chancre). 3rd. The period of the constitutional erup- tions (during the time the secondary symptoms exist). 4th. Tlie period of gummy productions (theLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 48 time of the tertiary and quaternary symptoms of other writers). For clinical purposes the arrangement given by Diday of the successive phases which syphi- lis undergoes in its evolution is, I think, the simplest and the best. According to him, sy- philis, when not hereditary, presents eight fea- tures worthy of careful scrutiny, provided the investigation of them is within our reach :— 1st. The contaminating cause. 2nd. The period of incubation. 3rd. The initial lesion (the chancre itself). 4th. The second incubation. 5th. TTie prodromata. 6th. The first evolution of constitutional symptoms. 7th. The glandular affections. 8th. The successive relays of eruptions, and other symptoms, often, but improperly, called relapses. It is by a careful analysis of the symptoms, which may be grouped under these eight heads, that we may arrive at a tolerably accurate con- clusion with regard to the severity of the attack of syphilis under which any patient may be suffering. It requires but a small experience49 LECTURE II. to see tliat syphilis, like all other diseases of the kind, presents itself to us sometimes in a mild, sometimes in a severe form.. The most import- ant thing which science can hope to do in the treatment of this formidable complaint, is to de- tect and lay down with precision the symptoms by which we may be able to predict that the complaint is about to run a mild or a severe course ; whether, in short, we can afford to allow' the work to be executed by nature, wdth little or no help, or whether it will be neces- sary for us to step in and use remedies, which, although useful in one way, are certainly inju- rious in another ; to learn, in fact, how long Ave may stand b}', watching the spontaneous evolu- tion of the disease, and skilfully to determine the moment when it may be necessary for us to have recourse to those measures w'hich corre- sj)ond to the ergot, the forceps, or the cephalo- tribe in the hands of the accoucheur. The celebrated Astruc, in the end of his re- markable Avork on “ Venereal Disease,” gives an interesting account of the methods of cure used by the Chinese ; he says they liaA'e tA\'o modes of treatment, one Avhich driA-^es out the disease gradually by gentle SAveats ; the other Avhich50 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. takes it by storm. The latter is accomplished by mercury, or “ kinfen" in the Chinese lan- guage. This is exactly what requires good ge- neralship on the part of the practitioner, viz.— to determine the kind of case in which mild measures will be successful, or that in which he must fall back on his storming party—his “ for- lorn hope.” It would be foreign from my purpose to enter into any discussion as to the causes which make syphilis mild in one person, severe in another. The truth is, we know very little about this ; but the fact is so. The “ verole faible ” and the “ verole forte ” of Diday (which you may translate as you please, the mild and inveterate, or the benign and the malignant syphilis) are met Avith in practice ; and this is, after all, the best division of the subject for clinical purposes; it is in fact the division into syphilis Avhich is curable by simple rational hygienic measures, and that Avhich requires mercury. I consider it all nonsense to call these syphi- lis and syphiloid, syphilis and pseudo-syphilis. They are one and the same disease, differing in intensity as other diseases oT the same kind51 LECTURE II. differ in intensity, and needing different treat- ment according to these differences. It is in the highest degree unphilosophical to make distinctions where no real distinctions exist. The first great step towards proving that sy- philis is a true toxaemic disease, and therefore one capable of self cure, was made by Carini- chael. Mr. Rose, of the Coldstream Guards, followed up what he had begun, lie had a field for re- search among the soldiers of his regiment, wdiich offered him a means of obtaining more accurate result.s than most persons in civil practice can hope to obtain. By direct obser- vation he proved that all primary syphilitic affections could be cured without mercury, and that the secondary lesions which followed also in time gave w'ay to mild and simple treatment without mercury. “ In my opinion,” says Sir William LawTcnce, “ this is the most important step that has been taken tow'ards understanding tlie nature and treatment of the venereal dis- ease, and I should place the truth thus”—ori- ginating -with Carmichael, and “ established by Mr. Rose, far beyond any of the speculations contained even in the work of John Hunter.”LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 52 The clear-sighted Graves, that great and philo- sophic physician, gave its full value to this truth. “ Mr. Carmichael of Dublin,” he says, “ was the first who materially improved this important practical branch of our profession, and taught, in a clear and scientific manner, when mercury ought, or ought not, to be exhibited.” The slowness wdth which practitioners have come to see in syphilis a disease not essentially ditferent from other toxmmic maladies; the tenacity with which, even to the present hour, some cling to a mercurial treatment in all sy- philitic cases, are due in a great degree to the old, but erroneous, idea to which I alluded in my former lecture—viz., that syphilis is a disease with an unconquerable tendency always to go on from bad to worse, unless checked by the specific action of mercury, which has been supposed to destroy the venereal poison as an alkali neu- tralises an acid. Carmichael fell into the error of believing in the plurality of the syphilitic poisons ; he attempted to show that there were several dis- tinct kinds of primary syphilitic sores, each folio-wed by its peculiar set of secondary symptoms. He conceived that, in the case ofLECTURE II. 58 each distinct primary syphilitic sore, there was a distinct poison—a germ or seed put into the soil ; that we had, as I may say, the oats sore, the wheat sore, the barley sore, and the rye sore, each bearing in time its own crop. Me thus looked upon the papular, the pustular, the scaly, and the rupial eruptions as the results of different poisons. Experience has not support- ed this view; the different forms of eruption are due to the soil, not to the seed. There were many who could see Carmichael’s error, and ridicule it, who failed to catch the fundamental truth which ran through his observations. I ask, what was Carmichaers practice ? In prac- tice he separated the sheep from the goats—the cases which need mercury from those that do not—the cases, as I may say, of natural labour from those requiring instrumental interference. This truth, “ eclate dans ToDuvre enti^re de Car- michael, ce profond observateur si mciconnu, si travesti.” Diday gives merit to whom merit is due, and I, gentlemen, preach to you the truth I learned from my first master, and I preach it to you with all the earnestness which arises from conviction of its truth. Although T admit that we at present know54 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. no remedy which exercises so great an influ- ence over syphilis as mercury, yet I very con- fidently affirm that the majority of the cases which come before you in practice may be cured without taking one single grain of it, and in after years they will be healthier, haler men than if they had been treated by mercury. But some one of you says, “ if mercury is the most powerful remedy against syphilis, why not use it in the milder as well as in the severer cases ? what harm does it do ? ” This is a question which would be answered very differently by different practitioners ; some assure you that mercury is a tonic, that men thrive and fatten on it; others tell you it is an infernal agent, to be avoided as death or sin, that it is a source of disease worse than that it is intended to remedy. Here again, gentlemen, although I venture to give you my own views, I do not ask you to adopt them. Do not blindly swallow my as- sertions, or those of any one else. Keep your eyes open ; observe, and note results for your- selves. You stand exactly where I myself did fifteen or twenty years ago. You halt be- tween two opinions. You stand as I myself55 LECTURE 11. did, to use a homely comparison, like the ass between the two bundles of hay—you know not which to turn to. That mercury is a very powerful remedial agent I do not question : but it is potent for evil as well as for good : it is as a two-edged sword ; while it cuts the disease at the one side, it cuts at the constitution on the other. What the knife is in surgical practice, what the crotchet and the perforator are to the accou- cheur, mercury is as a therapeutic agent. It should never be administered without duly considering, wliether the injury which it inflicts on tlie constitution, may be fairly regarded as compensated for by the benefit which is likely to result. The greater ills said to arise from the use of mercurials have been, I think, exaggerated. At least, as these preparations arc generally exhibited in the present day, I have rarely seen palsy, caries, madness, etc,, as a consequence fairly traceable to this cause. An impartial consideration of the reports of the diseases met with among the w’orkmen employed in mercury mines at Idria and elsewdiere, as w'ell as among mirror makers, gilders, etc. wlio are exposed to«>G LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. mercurial vapours, does not lead to the conclu- sion that these very formidable consequences of mercurial poisoning are so common as some would have us to believe. The minor ills arising from the use of mer- curials meet us at every turn. Cases like the following are of almost daily occurrence :— A young man, as a boy the healthiest of a very healthy family, met with a severe injury of the eye. According to a practice happily less frequent than it used to be, he was kept for some weeks in a dark room and mercurialized. Years afterwards he is the least robust of his family. He is sensitive to changes in the weather ; before he is up in the morning, he knows from wliat direction the wind blows. By slight irregularities of diet, dyspepsia is induced ; the white of the eye is jaundiced, and the urine loaded with lithates and with bile. In such cases the gums often recede from the teeth; neuralgic and rheumatoid pains pester the patient ; he is a weaker vessel than he was before j convalescence from slight illness is slow. Such individuals are more a prey than their neighbours to that slighter form of melan- cholia which we commonly call “ the blues.”57 LECTURE II. The use of mercurials for any considerable time transforms a moderately strong man into what we ordinarily call a miserable devil. It makes him hippish and hypochondriacal, and gives him a greater proclivity to disease than others. In short, “ the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to,”—even in the most robust of us—become, in his case, multiplied into ten thousand. As mankind in the aggregate suffers more annoyance from such creatures as mosquitoes, gnats, and midges, than from the depredations of the lion and the tiger; so the minor ills arising from mercury, in their aggregate, bear liardcr on mankind than the more formidable but rarer affections of a grave character which are traced to it. Such, gentlemen, arc my views, yet I know that you will meet some who have enjoyed large opportunities of practice, and yet have not recognised the ill effects arising from mercury ; they say it does no harm and may do good ; and so it becomes taught as a principle (I do not now speak merely of the treatment of syphilis), that when you are in doubt as to an obscure affection, you should give mercury ; it is said—fire into58 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. tlie bush: you may have the good luck to shoot the hare which perchance is lurking in it, and you do the bush no harm. Against such a principle I cannot speak too strongly. To be in doubt is to be in ignorance. It is better far to admit one’s ignorance, than blindly have recourse to a remedy which the experience of mankind admits to be anything but harmless. It is a principle which inculcates that you are to inflict upon your patient a very certain injury, witli a very slender chance of doing him any good. It is a principle against which it may seem to some of you almost ridi- culous to have to raise one’s voice in the present day ; yet, I assure you, it is one even still but too generally acted upon. To return, however, to the subject of syphilis, I have I trust explained to you the apparent paradox—that while I admit that no remedy exercises such an influence over this disease as mercury, I should recommend you to have recourse to it in practice as rarely as possible. There are in No. 2 Ward, at the present mo- ment, four patients—59 LECTURE II. Peter K., Michael B., . Michael D., . Matthew M’D., 18 years of age. 25 22 58 » » suffering from secondary venereal symptoms, each presenting characteristic eruptions, etc. These patients have been under my care from the first—that is, these four have not, as some others, been treated mercurially by any other practitioner before admission to this hosi)ital. Of these four, one is taking, and one has used, mercurials ; two have not, and, I hope, never need take any. To point out to you the principles which guide me in making this important difference in treat- ment shall be the object of my next lecture. In conclusion, I would observe that, in the wards of an hospital like this, you meet with a larger number of cases requiring the use of mercury, as a remedial agent, than you will meet with in ordinary practice ; and for this very simple reason—the slighter cases, the cases of what Diday calls “ verole faible,” do not require to come into hospital for treatment. The bulk of the cases of syphilis which you see here are severe, or malignant syphilis.^)0 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. During ten years, while I was Medical Super- intendent of the Mountjoy Convict Prison, I met with fifty-four cases of syphilis. This is a small array when compared with the hundreds and thousands which figure in the statistics of some. The power of accurate observation within prison walls, the certainty and precision of the facts, the removal of many of the disturbing influ- ences which confound results and observations made on ordinary patients; above all, the power of Avatching for years the undisturbed progress of the case, give, ho'wever, a great scientific value to observations made within the precincts of a convict prison. Of my fifty-four cases, thirteen were from the first under my owm care, never having been interfered with by any treat- ment until after their committal to prison. Of these thirteen, two only appeared to need mer- curial treatment; the rest got well under that simple, rational, hygienic treatment which can be so w^ell carried out within a prison, where habits of dissipation are at an end, and time is no object.[ 61 ] LECTURE III. Gentlemen, In all scientific questions where several forces are in action, and a certain effect pro- duced by their combination, it is a difficult matter to assign to each cause its proper share in the result. This is the supreme difficulty in the solution of medical problems. A syphilitic patient like Richard B , in No. 2 Ward, may be compared to a billiard ball which has been struck at the same instant by several cues, and which rolls along in a direc- tion the resultant of several forces. The syphi- litic poison represents one cue ; his wretched scrofulous constitution a second ; his habits of dissipation a third ; and the severe mercurial treatment which he has already (before admis- sion here) undergone, a fourth. He rolls along in obedience to the combined influence of these causes. When such a complicated entangle- ment of “ verce causce ” exists, it is obviously f V02 LECTUUES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. very difficult, as I have already said, for the most impartial and truthful-minded observer to assign its true scientific value to each. One is inclined to attribute everything to the syphi- litic cue alone; another to the “ whiskey punch ” cue ; while perhaps I may be accused by some of attributing too much to that one which has been handled by some brother prac- titioner— the mercurial cue. Wliat I wish you to understand, however, is this : that the difficulty which surrounds the investigation of such subjects as that which now engages our attention is immense, and that this is owing to the action of a variety of influences, no one of 'which can be guaged with absolute ac- curacy. The instruments of the physicist or the chemist can be very imperfectly applied to such researches. Controversy on such topics should be as much as possible avoided, as it only succeeds in making each disputant clench his favourite cue the tighter, and deny alto- gether any effect save that in accordance with the theoretic view he holds to. The important matter still, as regards syphilis, is to firet hold of hard facts observed with scien- tific precision. It must be confessed that as63 LECTURE III. yet we know little of the natural progress of simple uncomplicated syphilis ; that is to say, uncomplicated by scrofula, debauchery, or spe- cific treatment. It is, above all things, necessary that you should enter on the study of such a subject with minds free from prejudice. No one who has not engaged in such researches can con- ceive the many sources of error that meet us at every point. In the treatment of ordinary patients it is, I assure you, very difficult to be quite certain that one’s directions are fully carried out. I recollect myself pointing out, with considerable satisfaction, a case of sypliilis which was cured, as I supposed, without the administration of mercury ; yet I afterwards found that this in- dividual, who was an hospital patient, had taken a share of the mercurial pills ordered for another person. On the otlier hand. Diday gives an amusing case in which he himself, having prescribed mercurial treatment, and attributed to it the patient’s recovery, dis- covered, long afterwards, the boxes of pills untouched in the drawer of his patient’s dress- ing-table ; yet his patient was cured, and, as64 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. he says, remained cured for more than nine years without any mercurial treatment. In a prison conducted on what is known as the “ cellular system ” no such sources of error can exist. We have perfect scientific precision in watching our cases. The' following is the description given in the Constitution- report of the Venereal Committee al nianifes. constitutional clfccts of syphi- tat ions of J i- . Syphilis. lis:—“The constitutional manifesta- tions of syphilis follow the primary sore at an uncertain interval of time, ranging from four to ten weeks ;* the average term being about six weeks. Its first indication consists in a sense of chilliness, followed by heat of skin, ac- celerated pulse, general lassitude, and mental depression. These symptoms are accompanied by pains in the limbs, and especially in the joints, often of a severe rheumatic character. In the course of two days or more the skin upon the chest, back, abdomen, and arms—oc- casionally in severe cases over the whole sur- face of the body, exhibits, on examination, * Not unfrequently the sorenesa of throat is the first symp- tom which attnicts the patient’s notice; he fancies he has an ordinary cold, with sore throat.65 LECTURE III. some form of eruption, most commonly of an erythematous or roseolar character of a pale pink colour. Such eruption terminates in cop- per-coloured patches. “ If the disease be severe, well - developed papules, vesicles, and pustules may appear over tlie back and head, intermingled with or fol- lowing the rash. The pulse continues frequent. The throat exhibits a florid discolouration, which involves the tonsils and the neighbour- ing parts of the soft palate. Of the condition of the throat, the subject may remain for a time unconscious. This stage of the disease, which continues for some days stationary, may be preceded, accompanied, or succeeded by en- largement of the inguinal and posterior cervical glands. The latter, however, are not always affected. These indications are accompanied by impaired health, and by loss of physical strength. . “ A sense of general debility prevails, coupled with pallor of the skin, the blood being said to be deprived of a portion of its red corpuscles. The tonsils ulcerate, and exhibit either an excavated ulcer, or a plain, flat surface, of a soft, red, flabby aspect. The hair fulls off (alo-66 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. pecia). On the side of the tongue at a yet later date, and generally on its under surface, are formed small white ulcers, tliree or four in number, of about the size of a split-pea, which, on healing, leave a white and some- what depressed cicatrix, while others appear on the soft palate and roof of the mouth, on the gums, or at the angle formed by the two jaws. Condylomata, soft mucous-like ulcerations at the angles of the mouth, nostrils, nates, and female genital organs, iritis with its compli- cations, and onychia frequently occur. Such arc the various symptoms that mark the pro- gress of syphilis in the majority of cases, and which may be said to belong to the acute form of the disease. There is, however, another group of symptoms not preceded by febrile derange- ment, and more chronic in character. To this belong psoriasis, lepra, and tubercular erup- tions, honey-comb eruption of the palms of the hands, the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, and enlargement of the testicle. All these affec- tions are in a remarkable degree almost desti- tute of pain.” In severe cases these symptoms succeed each other, wave after wave, eruption after eruption,67 LECTURE III. for four, five, or six outbursts, with intervening periods of betterness. In mild cases, one, two, or perhaps three crops of slight eruptions end tlie affair. That syphilis presents itself to the practi- tioner in forms which vary greatly in severity, that common sense and reason indicate that the treatment should vary with the severity of the complaint—these are the simple principles which I must now ask you to bear in mind. The greatest of all practical questions with refer- ence to this formidable complaint appears to me to be—how are we to discriminate the one class from the other ? how are we to separate the cases of benign from those of malignant syphilis ? You may justly say to me—“ You have already said that it is not possible, with anything like certainty, to diagnose the simple from the syphilitic venereal sore ; to say of one sore that it will be the forerunner of constitu- tional syphilis—of another that it will not. You admit that it is a matter of difficulty, if not impossibility, llow, then, can you hope to tell in advance whether the constitutional dis- ease which will succeed the syphilitic sore may turn out to be mild or severe ? ” Let me sayLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 68 in reply, that you must wait patiently and watch carefully. As the gradual evolution of the complaint goes forward, you will perceive certain indications—certain circumstances with regard to your patient’s age, habits, constitu- tion, etc, which will indicate to you with con- siderable precision the course the complaint is going to run, and you must adapt your treat- ment accordingly. But you say again—“ Are we to wait and watch, looking quietly on at the evolution of this formidable malady ? are we not rather to jittack it at once, and by mer- curial treatment in the beginning to prevent constitutional disease ? ” Gentlemen, let us be candid. We cannot prevent the constitutional disease.* On this subject the evidence brought before the Venereal Committee exhibits a mar- * Although not unauinious upon the subject, yet a large num- ber of observers give a negative reply to the question, “ Does the administration of mercury prevent the occurrence of se- condary symptoms ?” Mr. Skey, President of the Committee on Venereal Diseases, gays;—“ I think it is clear that the primary sore treated by mercury is as likely to be followed by secondary disease as the primary sore not treated by mercury.” Mr. Longmore, of the Militai-y Hospital at Netley, says :—“ I have been taught by experience not to believe that the develop- ment of secondary symptoms is prevented by giving mercury.” Sir W. Fergussou, King’s College Hospital, states that he69 LECTUKE III. vellous unanimity. The report says :—“ No treatment by mercury, whether moderately or freely adnMnistered for this purpose, can give exemption from the liability to constitutional disease.” It is true that a few of the persons examined before the Venereal Committee ad- hered to the opinion which was so confidently put forward by the last generation of prac- titioners—viz., that constitutional syphilis is prevented by the mercurial treatment of the primary disease ; but the error of our ancestors is easily explained. They treated all ulcers on the genitals with mercury ; four out of five of these were simple sores ; in four out of five no secondary disease followed, or ever would have followed under any treatment; and they attri- buted to mercurial treatment wliat was in reality due to the non-infecting character of the simple does not think the action of mercury gives any immunity from constitutional symptoms. Mr. Langston Parker, Queen’s Hospital, Birmingham, in reply to the question, “ Do you think that the treatment by mercury gives any exemption from the secondary disease ?”—says, “ No, I do not.” Mr. Erichsen, of University Collie Hospital, speaking with reference to the syjthilitic (hard) sore, says :—“ 1 cannot say that I have ever seen a case in which a man has escapeil the se- condary sjTnptoms under .any form of treatment.”—Repor of Vemreal Commiuion.LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 70 sore. If, therefore, you fully reeognise the faet that you eanuot prevent constitutional syphilis from coming on, you will have less "scruple in calmly watching the evolution of the disease, and you will be more reconciled to the issue when you know that this is the surest mode of obtaining the evidence—the all-important evi- dence—on which your prognosis and your treat- ment are to be based. I have already told you in a former lecture, that Diday speaks of eight distinct and successive features which mark the progress of every syphilitic case. 1st. The contaminating cause. We have com- paratively little opportunity in this country for investigating it. The method of confrontation, as it has been called, the tracing home of the syphilitic affection to its source in the female, tlie confronting in fact of the sore on the male genitals with that of the parent sore from which it takes its origin, has borne good fruit, and been one of the most decisive methods of prov- ing the duality of the venereal poison. Owing, however, to the uncontrolled condition of pros- titution in this country, we have but rare oppor- tunity of doing it, and for practical purposes we may set aside any evidence which we are likely to derive from this source.71 LECTURE III. 2nd. The first incubation—that is to say, the period which elapses from the time of the im- pure contact until the moment when the sore becomes apparent—is a point upon which we can sometimes obtain precise information, and, when we can, information of great importance. It may be laid down as a general rule, that the longer the period of incubation the less virulent tlie infection. We have already seen that con- siderable difference of opinion exists with refer- ence to the duration of this period of the first incubation. In ten cases of inoculation from secondary lesions, the mean incubation has been 28 days ; in two cases of inoculation from pri- mitive lesions, the mean incubation has been 18 days; while Diday assigns 14 days as the mean period for incubation in the ordinary run of cases. As in gonorrhoea, so in syphilis, the longer the period of incubation, the less virulent, in all probability, the nature of the virus ; but in truth we cannot build much upon this with reference to our prognosis. 3rd. Ihe primitive lesion, that is to say, the chancre and its characters, have been thoroughly studied, and appear to afibrd some important testimony. The initial lesions, unattended with much induration, may be stated, as a rule, toLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 72 be tlic forerunners of the milder form of syphi- lis. The uniiidurated syphilitic chancres, which have been described by various writers under so many names (the venerola vulgaris, the chancrous erosion, the condylomatous affec- tion, tlie superficial erosion, patchy excoriation, superficial primary syphilis, the chancriform erosion), appear from the statistics of llasse- reau generally to give rise to mild syphilis. Thus, from his tables, we find of 170 cases of roseolar eruptions, the primitive lesion was in r4G of them an erosion ; in 24 of them, a hard chancre. 4th. The period of the second incubation. The duration of this j:)eriod has not been accu- rately fixed as yet—that is to say, the period over which it extends. Some authors date it from the time of the impure contact to the time when the secondary lesions declare themselves. Others date it from the day upon which the chancre is observed, up to the period when those constitutional symptoms present themselves, which are about to usher in what we call the secondary lesions. The latter is probably the best definition, and can, generally speaking, be accurately defined, as we can almost always73 LECTURE III. find out from the patient when it was that the sore was first noticed, and we can invariably discover the time at which the malaise and general discomfort supervenes—which is the sure indication that the constitutional symptoms are about to make their appearance. It is a remarkable fact that this period is rather longer in cases of severe syphilis, while the milder forms generally develop themselves more rapid- ly. Diday gives forty-seven days as the average period of the second incubation for eases of “ verole fuible ; ” fifty-three days as the average j>eriod in cases of “ verole forte.” The mild roseolar eruption appears early, the severer forms of eruption appear later. In determining, there- fore, the severity of the cases, the length of the [)eriod of the second incubation aflfords valuable evidence. 5th. The prodromata. Under this head are placed the anomalous symptoms which usher in the first outbreak of constitutional symptoms —headache, rheumatic pains, or, as they are called, osteocopic {oareov^ a bone, and /cottos, fa- tigue, bone-ache), syphilitic chlorosis, depression of spirits, tendency to rigor and general discom- fort. It is quite certain that, as in many other74 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. eruptive affections, these general symptoms may sometimes be very aggravated, and yet the par- turient mountain gave birth but to a mouse. Severe prodromata are by no means necessarily the forerunners of severe syphilis. 6th. The first outbreak of constitutional symptoms is, as Diday expresses it, the true touchstone of the intensity of tlie syphilitic infection. Tliis outbreak shows itself in the mucous membranes or the external integument, very generally first upon the scalp, in the form of the corona veneris. Fortunately, the benign forms are the most frequent. More than one-half are of the roseolar variety; something like twenty- five per cent, belong to the papular ; while the scaly, vesicular, and pustular are of much rarer occurrence. These syphilitic eruptions, or syphi- lides, as they are called, are after all most im- portant indications of the severity of the syphi- litic intoxication. I believe it is rarely necessary to have recourse to specific treatment for the roseolar form of the disease—very rarely indeed in persons under thirty years of age, and I should venture to say never, when we find that the second crop of eruption, -which may follow some weeks later, is not of a severer kind than the first.75 LECTURE III. 7th. Tlie glandular affections, technically called adenopathia. To this group belong the glandular affections which appear in the lym- phatic glands throughout the body, first in the groin, afterwards in the neck, sometimes in the axilla. These, generally speaking, have little tendency to suppurate unless called into action by some cause which may be regarded as extra syphi- litic, as a scrofulous diathesis, the occurrence of erj’sipelas, or local irritation of some kind. In the milder cases these glandular engorgements gradually become dissipated. When they sup- purate from local causes, they form a very troublesome complication, and frequently neces- sitate a specific treatment. 8th. Successive relays of symptoms. This aspect of syphilis, in which its tendency to re- turn again and again is shown, has been mis- named relapse. It is, in truth, no evidence of relapse, but evidence of a natural tendency in the complaint not to die out at once, but to die out gradually, making itself visible in a succes- sion of outbreaks at intervals of some weeks, and each often slighter than that which has gone before. If, however, you find this line of progress isLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 7G departed from—if the second and third crops of eruption follow each other quickly, and each is worse than that which has preceded it—we have in this the most important of all indications for a specific treatment. “ If,” says Diday, “ a roseolar eruption at first has been succeeded by a squamous eruption for the second crop, the prognosis is altogether different from what it would be if the crop succeeding the first con- sisted of lesions diminishing in severity. But, besides the peculiarity of each outburst, we should never lose sight of the degree of rapidity with which they follow each other.” Let us compare these two cases:— Time. Case of Mild Syphilis. Case of SeToro SypIiiUs. Number of days of second incubation, from the appearance of the cliancro to the Days. Days. appearance of first crop of eruption .. 40 60 Number of days from date of appearance of first crop to appearance of second ., .. 88 28 Do. from appearance of second to api>earance of third 184 20 Do. from third to fourth crop — .82 Do. from fourth to fifth crop — 44 1 j In the mild case, but few successive crops after longer intervals ; in the severe one, moreLECTURE III. 77 numerous crops separated by shorter intervals. You may ask me, then, why I have not adopted a specific treatment in the case of Peter K , at present in No. 2 Ward. He is eighteen years of age, and was admitted on tlie 19th of August last, having on him a roseolar eruption. He was discharged, seemingly well, on September 23rd. He was re-admitted on October 21st, having a papular eruption on his arms, shoulders, face, and thighs. This got better, but on November 30th a fresh outburst took place, in which pustules were mingled with the papulae. Erysipelas of the head came on, and, as a con- sequence, the glands of the neck suppurated. A fourth slight eruption occurred at the com- mencement of the present month. No mer- curials have been given in this case, yet you sec the patient is now every day getting better. I tell you, gentlemen, that in this instance I have departed from my o^vn principles, and T have done so in order the more to impress upon you the power which sj’philis has of work- ing its own cure. This is a case in which I have gone beyond my usual practice, in order to impress upon you this most important of all78 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. the truths connected with syphilis ; and I have erred as regards the principles which I wish to teach you—at least, I have violated the gene- ral principles which I wish to lay down, in having adopted throughout in this man’s case a non-specific treatment. Upon what grounds in the case of Matthew M is mercury administered, while to all appearance the disease does not appear to bear upon him so heavily as upon the other ? I answer, this man is fifty-eight years of age ; he has escaped from syphilitic infection for fifty-eight years ; at that age the reparative powers are feeble as compared with younger subjects. Men over fifty have lost the elasticity and vigour of constitution, which are so important in the struggle with a morbid poison. You all know that youth is the time to get typhus over you. Typhus hits very hard after the age of fifty ; so does syphilis. IIis age alone deter- mines a mild mercurial treatment in his case. Michael has a chancre, now healed, an indolent bubo, a roseolar eruption on the chest and abdomen, with severe rheumatic pains and slight mucous tubercles in the fauces. He is79 LECTURE III. tu'enty-two years of age. Watch liis case ; you will find that he will need no specific treatment to effect his cure. ^lichael B , twenty-five years of age, had scrofulous abscess in his neck in childhood, the traces of which he still bears on his neck. Having contracted syphilis, he was exposed to circumstances in the highest degree likely to make it severe. He is a cab-driver on night service ; he has been much exposed to the in- clemency of the weather and frequent wettings ; he admits that he had recourse to the consola- tion of spirituous drink as frequently as he could get it. Such circumstances are most likely to change a mild syphilis into one of a malignant character. Such has been his case. The syphilitic eruption was papular ; abscesses formed in the neck, axilla, and at the ankle ; iritis supervened. Mercurial treatment was in- dicated in this case. Without going the full length of the anti- mercurialist school, I admit that in my judg- ment the great question as regards syphilis is, how far we can judiciously dispense with a mercurial treatment. Von Baerensprung’s view coincides with that which I have arrived at; ac-LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 80 cording to him, “ Mercury does not cure syphilis; mercurialism causes the symptoms of the dis- ease to disappear for a time. As long as the mer- curial action lasts, syphilis remains in a latent state, reappearing afterwards by so much the more terrible in proportion as the mercurial in- toxication has weakened the constitution of the patient.” Nevertheless, there are cases in whicli you must deal with the symptoms. The cases—and they are not a few—in whicli I have seen direct proof of the power of syphilis to get well without mercurial treatment, are those on which my own convictions are basctl. There are other facts, however, to which I may point ; and I fancy some may be surprised to find proofs drawn from the writings of those who are themselves strong and decided mer- curialists. Moliere’s “ Bourgeois Gentilhomme” was surprised to find that he had been talking prose all his life without knowing it. I am not certain that the mercurialist will be as well pleased to be told that he has been practising non-mercurialism without knowing it. In fact, patients cured by the calomel vapour-bath are cured by non-mercurial treatment. I am now satisfied that calomel used in this way has no81 LECTURE III. specific elfect. Calomel is not absorbed by the unbroken skin. When I was a student I frequently ordered, under the direction of the late Dr. Hutton, calomel ointment for the treatment of psoriasis and lepra, not syphilitic. Those who were ac- quainted with the practice of this eminent sur- geon, will remember that he frequently pre- scribed an ointment consisting of one drachm of calomel to an ounce of lard, to be frequently rubbed over the surface of the body in such eases. I was struck by the fact that this mer- curial preparation, so active when given inter- nally, never mercurialized when rubbed over the skin in the form of ointment. I have known pounds of it to be used—rubbed in in ounces daily over the entire body—but I never knew a case to be salivated by it. Later, when turning my attention more to the subject which at present occupies us, I found that mercuriali- zation did not follow even the very frequent use of the calomel vapour-bath—provided the patient did not let his head into the vapour and inhale the sublimated calomel. Wlien a patient leaves the calomel vapour-bath, if we scrape the surface and examine in the micros-82 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. cope wliat has been there deposited, we find the sublimated calomel in crystals — a form ill- adapted for cutaneous absorption. Doubting that it ever was absorbed in this way, I made some experimental observations. Some ounces of finely levigated calomel were tied in a muslin bag. Every day, after coming out of an ordinary warm bath, the patients were dusted over with the calomel in the bag, from the waist down. I have myself rubbed ounces of calomel over the legs, abdomen, and scrotum, leaving the patient as white as a miller with it, but 1 have never found it sali- vate the patient. There is a simple method by which we can test in many cases the general action of mer- cury on the human organism. If we apply to the skin a small disc of gold (or anything gilt), as a patient becomes salivated it becomes sil- vered. I generally use one of the discs of an old gold shirt-stud, stuck to the skin in the axilla with a piece of sticking-plaster. I have not found this test give evidence of general mercurial absorption, when calomel has been freely rubbed over the lower half of the body day after day. In fact, so convinced am ILECTUBE m. 83 that under ordinary circumstances the cuta- neous absorption of calomel does not take place, that although I have no love for it, yet, so far as regards fear of mercurialization, I sliould not mind spending a month up to my neck in a sack of calomel. IIow is it, then, that tlie calomel bath has been found to do so much good ? It is, gentlemen, simply the vapour-bath act- ing beneficially on a malady which has a natural tendency to get well of itself Mon- sieur Jourdain has been speaking prose without knowing it. The recovery of the patient is attributed to a cause which has, in reality, no- thing to say to it. I have now, gentlemen, endeavourc<l to point out to you some of the general indications which will enable you to determine whether you have a severe or a mild case of syphilis to deal with. The details of treatment you must learn at the bed-side. \ou must not suppose, however, when I say that the majority of cases of syphilis may be cured without the use of mercurials, that 1 would have you leave such cases to themselves. By no means.84 LECTUIIES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. If a syphilitic patient smokes and drinks beer lialf the day, and plays cards and drinks punch half the night, or if, like our patient Michael B , the cab-driver, he is exposed night after night to wet and cold, and at the same time submitted to whiskey-punch treatment, his case will become aggravated—his disease will pass from the mild to the severe form. You must lay down strict rules for living. You must by simple means keep the skin, kidneys, and bowels in action. 1 am told, “ Your cases at the Mountjoy Prison were not like ordinary cases in the outer world. You could there enforce hygienic discipline such as cannot be enforced in general.” There is, no doubt, some truth in all this ; yet the curing of soldiers and prisoners by an enforced hygiene proves the great power of such treatment ; and it is at least your duty to put this strongly before your patient. If he will not submit to the discipline and in- structions necessary for his cure in the one Avay, he must be prepared to undergo a treatment which will leave him a more or less enfeebled man for the rest of his life. Let his blood be on his own head.LECTURE IV. Gentlemen, I do not mean to trouble you with nny very lengthened observations on the treatment of syphilis. I liave already said that the de- tails of treatment must be pointed out at the bed-side, yet I feel that my lectures would very incompletely answer the purpose for which they were intended, if I did not briefly touch on some points connected with the therapeutics of syphilis. As students of the Irish School of Medicine, you may look, gentlemen, with very just pride to what has been done in this department by practitioners of Dublin. To Wallace we owe the introduction of iodide of potassium as an anti-syphilitic agent—an agent now universally admitted to be one of the most potent weapons which human skill can wield against this dis- ease in many of its forms ; to Carmichael we are indebted for having led the van in opposi-86 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. tion to that free and reckless use of mercurials, which has done, and indeed still does, so much mischief, lie may almost be said to have inau- gurated the all-important scientific study of the « natural history of syphilis ; while Colles, Abra- ham Colles (whose memory is so highly revered within the walls of this great hospital), has, in his work on “ Venereal Diseases and the Use of ]\Iercury,” given the most masterly sketch with which I am acquainted as to how we should handle the claymore against syphilis, should it become necessary to draw it from its scabbard. I shall speak now of the treatment of syphilis, first, as regards measures of simple hygiene, and subsequently, as regards that method which is generally spoken of as specific treatment. Let me, however, before entering on these topics, lay before you some of the conclusions lately arrived at on the subject of syphilisatioii. In volume fifty of the “ Transactions of the iMedico-Chirurgical Society of London,” you will find a very valuable contribution to our know- ledge on this subject by Messrs. Lane and Gas- coyen, surgeons to the London Lock' Hospital. These gentlemen give a report of cases treated by syphilisation, or the repeated inoculation of87 LECTURE IV. syphilitic matter in persons already the subject of constitutional disease. It is true their own opinions do not agree as to the curative influ- ence of syphilisation ; the facts, however, which they record are not the less interesting and instructive. Syphiliaation.—This peculiar method of treat- ment originated wflth 1\I. Auzias- SyphilisatioiL Turenne about 1845 ; owing to tlie opposition of the French Academy of Medicine, it can scarcely be said to have been tested in France, except by the late M. Melchior Robert of Marseilles. M. Sperino of Turin tried it in u considerable number of cases. Professor Rdeck of Christiana, however, is at this mo- ment the champion of syphilisation ; he has developed the system on a large scale, and the publications of himself and his pupil. Dr. Biden- kap, have revived the interest in this subject. The strange idea of curing syphilis by re- peated syphilitic inoculations had its birth in France. It took its origin in this way. M. Auzias-Turenne, when studying the elfects of syphilitic virus upon animals, perceived that after a certain number of inoculations, the in- oculated animal gained a power of resisting theLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 88 chancrous virus. To the immunity from tlie disease thus established, or ratlier to the pecu- liar modification of the organism thus indu- ced, Auzias-Turenne gave the name of syplii- lisation. In November, 1850, he announced the result to the Academic des Sciences, He naturally conceived that it would not be impos- sible to reproduce in man the effects which he had observed on the lower animals ; some pa- tients voluntarily submitted themselves to his inoculations 5 in these cases a complete immu- nity was obtained ; and so the ideas of Auzias- Turenne became admitted within the domain of therapeutics. The practice of syphilisation evoked extreme hostility in England; in fact, it was never fairly tried until undertaken by Messrs. Lane and Gosco}’^en, who commenced their series of obser- vations under the direction of Dr. Bdeck him- self. These gentlemen pursued the method recom- mended by Dr. Bdeck, which is as follows :— At the commencement, three punctures arc made on each side of the chest, and matter is inserted derived either from a person who has a primary syphilitic ulcer, or from the artificial89 LECTURE IV. sores of a patient who is undergoing syphilisa- tion. After an interval of three days, if the punctures have developed pustules, three other inoculations are made from them in the same region of the body, and this process is repeated so long as pustules are produced ; the inocula- tions being made at intervals of three days, and the matter being always taken from the last- formed pustules. When at length these are not inoculable, fresh matter is employed, and the above process is repeated until a positive result can no longer be obtained on the trunk. The same practice is then commenced on the arms, and continued there until the punctures fail; when a similar process is pursued on the thighs until no more postules result, and a condition of immunity, more or less perfect, is arrived at. In the ordinary run of cases this occurs in from three to four months. The average period during which Messrs. Lane and Goscoyen’s cases were under treat- ment in hospital, was five months and sixteen days. The average number of inoculations practised in each case was 259, of which 145 produced chancres, and 114 were sterile. A method of treatment which entails the produc-90 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. tion of some 150 chancres over the body can never, I think, be a popular mode of treating syphilis. From a very careful perusal of the valuable memoir of Messrs, Lane and Goscoyen, I must fully concur in the justice of the conclu- sion at which they arrive as to the therapeutic value of syphilisation. “ Differing,” they say, “ as we do, on the scientific aspect of the ques- tion, we are entirely in accord as to its practical bearings, and we are decidedly of opinion that syphilisation is not a treatment which can be recommended for adoption. AVe consider that, even if it could be admitted to possess all the advantages claimed for it by its advocates over other modes of treatment, or in many instances over no treatment at all, it would not suffi- ciently compensate for its tediousiiess, its pain- fulness, and the life-long marking which it entails upon the patient.” Has syphilisation any curative effect what- - ever ? It seems strange, indeed, Curative ef- o i i feet of Sy- that at this period of the world’s phihsation. jjjg^Qpy ^ye should not be able at once, and with certainty, to answer this ques- tion. Yet, to our shame be it confessed, we cannot. AA’^e do not as yet know enough aboutLECTURE IV. 91 the simple and undisturbed progress of syphilis, to say whether fifty cases of the complaint, with no other treatment than the dietary, rest, regu- lar hours, &c. of an hospital, would take longer to get well than fifty similar cases submitted to syphilisation. ^Ir. Lane believes that it does exercise some beneficial and specific influence over the progress of the disease. ISIr. Gascoycn, on the other hand, thinks that the natural ten- dency to recovery, which an early and uncom- ydicated constitutional syphilis exhibits with the lapse of time, and under circumstances favourable to the general habit, is sufficient to account for the subsidence of the secondary symptoms during syphilisation. It is gratifying to find so competent an authority as Mr. Gas- coyen so deeply imbued with the belief that “an early and uncomplicated syphilis ” has so great a natural tendency to recovery. For my part, I should certainly agree with him. If the pos- sibility of the spontaneous cure of syphilis be no longer contested, from that moment it be- comes difficult, if not impossible, to assign its true therapeutic value to any mode of treat- ment—syphilisation among the rest. In order to determine wliether the cases of cure attri-LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. i)2 buted to syphilisation are not in realit}’ due to the natural progress of the malady, there must be some definite standard of comparison. Hence the extreme value of cases carefully noted, and accurately observed for years, and whicli have undergone no other than treatment bv hygienic measures. Prophylaxis and Hygiene of Syphilis.—The T, .. prevention of syphilis, or at least treatmeut tlic attempt to clicck its ravages, is ofSyi)hih3. greatest objects con- nected with state medicine. The rude maclii- nery for this purpose adopted in Great Britain has, until quite recently, contrasted most unfa- vourably with the schemes of our continental neighbours. Tlie Englishman’s respect for personal liberty, as well as a sort of moral instinct which made liim unwilling to handle an unclean thing, caused us as a nation to shrink from legislation on such a subject as the control of prostitution. Our soldiers, our naval and mercantile marine, and of course the public, have in consequence suffered to an extent quite incredible. We are, however, commencing a better system. Of this aspect of the prophylaxis of syphilis T do not speak at present.93 LECTURE IV. Various plans have been devised in order to prevent the occurrence of venereal disease in an individual after a suspicious connection. These may almost all be summed up in a few words:—strict attention to cleanliness, thorough washing. There can be little doubt that proper attention to this simple preventive measure would greatly lessen the evils arising from venereal disease of different kinds. A number of practitioners have recommended various lo- tions, with the design of adding to the wash such ingredients as may destroy any venereal virus lurking in the folds, or coming in contact with slight fissures or excoriations, around the corona or about the frenum. Lotions contain- ing acids, alkalies, alcohol, wine, sulphate of zinc, lead, etc., have been thus ordered. Lang- lebert recommends a mixture of soft soap, potass, and alcohol. Rodet of Lyons a lotion somewhat more caustic, viz.:— R Ferri porchloridi liquoris fortioris. Acidi hydrochloricL Acidi citrici aa. 3iv, Aqua* distillatie fl. 5iv. M. Fiat lotio. How long after contamination the use of such appliances may serve to neutralize a poi-LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 94 son remains doubtful. All we can say for cer- tain is, that the sooner any poison is washed away or destroyed the better. AVhen it is once admitted that syphilis is a rj . . true toxacmic disease, that it is a treatment malady, in fact, depending upon the of Syphilis. aJjnission into tlie system of a poi- son which, under favourable circumstances, is capable of spontaneous elimination, then it fol- lows that hygienic measures must play a capital part in its treatment. If, as I have said in a former lecture, a struggle is going on between the constitution of tlie patient and a disease which has made an inroad into his system, it is of course of prime consequence that the con- stitution should be well backed up in the con- flict. To maintain the general health, to uphold the natural vigour of the constitution, to keep the powers of the organism up to that level which is best adapted to accomplish the elimi- nation of the virus—this is the object of the hygienic treatment. When to this we add the use of those simple medicaments which, act- ing on the skin, bowels, and kidneys, tend to keep their functions in healthy play, yet areLECTURE IV. 95 not supposed to exercise any specific action, we then liave that plan of treatment which has been called the rational or methodic treatment of syphilis. As regards diet, the syphilitic patient should, as a rule, live, generously. He should live on simple and nutritious food, taking as much as his appetite indicates to be sufficient—neither weakening his frame by taking less, nor striving to take more than his stomach can readily deal with. In prescribing a dietary, attention should always be paid to the patient’s usual mode of living ; yet, believe me, you will generally find it necessary to insist on your syphilitic patients living tolerably well, many of them are so im- bued with the idea that abstinence is necessary for their cure. Next, probably, in importance to diet is good air, a well-ventilated sleeping apartment free from damp. The damp and crowded dwellings of the poor exercise a most baneful influence over the complaint. Let your patient have seven or eight hours sleep of a night; let him give up theatres, balls, card and supper parties ; let him have such moderate exercise every day that, without beingLECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. exhausted or absolutely fatigued, he may be well satisfied to go to bed each niglit at ten o’clock. If you have influence enough over your pa- tient to induce him to adhere to such direc- tions; to shun those selfish indulgences which tend to debilitate the frame ; and if lie has youtli and a tolerably good constitution on his side, you may look forward to his case running its course favourably as one of “ verole faible.” If he is one of a delicate family of a scrofu- lous or gouty diathesis, then it is all the more necessary for him to leave nothing undone to keep up his general health. But if, on the other hand, you have a patient to deal with who will not forego his selfish pleasures ; who haunts the tavern and the bil- liard-room, smoking and drinking, breathing foul air vitiated by gas and reeking with tobacco- smoke, during the hours which he should give to repose, let him expect that to him syphilis will come in “ all her Gorgon-terrors clad.” As adjuncts to hygiene, such simple medica- tions as cod liver oil, chalybeate tonics, and warm baths play an important part. The firstLECTURE IV. 97 is specially indicated when any strumous ten- dency exists ; the second class of remedies, useful through the whole course of the disease, is particularly called for during those periods of syphilitic chlorosis (chloro-ana^mia), so usu- ally the forerunner of an outburst of eruption. Warm baths or vapour baths are the most ef- fective means of keeping the skin in action. Medicated baths of various kinds are eminently useful ; baths corresponding with those of the bromated and iodated waters of Kreuznach, the waters of Schlangenbad, Harrogate, Barege.s, can be readily obtained in all our cities. Tonic and exciting medicated baths arc of great service in syphilitic as well as other affec- tions of the skin ; baths containing iodide or sulphuret of potassium, or arseniatc of soda are eminently useful in the ana?mia, chlorosis, or rheumatism connected with syphilis. Dr. Noel Guencau de Mussy recommends three and a-half ounces of subcarbonate of soda, with twenty grains of the arseniate, in a bath. No unprejudiced practitioner will deny the benefit of the Turkish and Russian baths. We have no means of inducing diaphoresis compar- able to these.98 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. Such a bath as the following :— R Ferri sulphatis, 5ij. Scxla; Bulpliiitis, 5vj. At. Dissolve in thirty gallons of soft water at 98“ Fahrenheit foi* a bath—can be readily obtained even at the patient’s home ; and thus the ad- vantage of the chalybeate and the bath com- bined. The bowels should be kept in action once or twice every day : for this purpose nothing answers better than some of the sulphurous mineral waters made artificially ; those of Bag- ii6res-du-Luchon, of Bareges, of Aix les Bains, in Savoy, of Aix-la-Chapelle have gained a well- deserved reputation. The waters of Kreuznacli are greatly praised against the intractable com- bination of syphilis and scrofula. I very com- monly order the following imitation of the Harrogate sulphur water:— R Sulphatis potassip, cum aulphure, 5'v. Uitart. potiissoc, 3ij. Sulplmtis maguesit'e, oiij. M. Fiat pulvia. One teaspoonful of this powder to be taken in a tumbler of warm water every morning, or every second morning upon first getting up. The doseLECTURE IV. 99 should be increased or diminished according to its effects. The patient should take a short walk before breakfast, and by increasing the quantity of fluid which he consumes daily he should keep the kidneys in good action. Syphilitic patients are themselves sometimes aware of a peculiar faint yet disagreeable odour emitted from the urine ; this is observed at in- tervals, and after each has passed away the patient finds himself better. It seems to re- semble the odour which patients labouring under ague know as indicating the approach of an attack of fever ; and certainly points to the necessity of keeping these organs in good work- ing order. Some patients object to the large quantity of liquid necessarily taken in consuming mineral waters, and although this is one of the great advantages attending their use, you may have to direct something else ; equal parts of syrup of senna and fluid extract of sarsaparilla—a tea- spoonful once or twice a-day in half a cup of hot water, acts well as an aperient, and suits those persons, not a few, who still retain an un- bounded faith in sarsaparilla. Chlorate of potash used internally, and also as100 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. R gargle and mouth wash, is a great favourite with some. For the slighter forms of sore throat 1 often order the following :— R Potassa." cliloratis, 3ij. Mellis .^j. Aqua' 5xj. to be used as a gargle several times a day, and half an ounce to be swallowed three times a day. The doses ordered to be taken internally should be swallowed slowly, in fact taken in sips, so as to be brought well in contact, in the act of swallowing, with those parts of the throat and fauces not reached in gargling. The importance of the local treatment of all kinds of venereal sores, whether Local treat- . , ment of pi’imarj^, secondary, or tertiary. Syphilitic cannot be over-rated. You have ayraitom abundant proof of this in the terrible case of rupia, lately in No. 9 ward. The ulcers were so extensive that it was im- possible to deal with all at the same time. You saw those which were touched with nitric acid, and afterwards dressed for some days with creasote ointment, healed rapidly, far outstrip- ping those less energetically treated. You have often seen the almost magical101 LECTURE IV. effect of a large blister upon the hideous lupoid ulcerations of tertiary syphilis. I have seen some cases in Avhich the local action of an acci- dental attack of erysipelas has entirely altered the appearance of the ulcer, and brought about rapid cicatrization. In short, whether on the genitals, the mouth and fauces, or the skin, the local treatment of venereal affections forms a chief part of the therapeutics of syphilis. Prohibit tobacco- smoking, and the source of irritation once re- moved, “ mucous patches ” and ulcerations on the tongue, etc., for a long time recurring, will get well. A\"ash the surface, attend to cleanli- ness, and simply dust the part over with finely j)owdcred starch, and you will quickly get rid of troublesome condylomata. Ix*arn to over- come the more frequent and troublesome symp- toms of syphilis; let your patient know that in the natural course of things he must expect recurrences ; do not promise that relapses are at an end ; by so doing you are pretty certain to get a disappointment, and to lose the confidence of your patient, and that equally whether you adopt a specific treatment or not. The beneficial action of iodine in the treat-LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 102 inent of sypliilis is beyond doubt ; Iodine. ill some eruptions, in severe syphili- tic rheumatism, and most forms of tertiary sypliilis its efficacy is unquestioned. In 1831, l.iUgol published his observations on tertiary symptoms cured by iodides without the com- bined use of mercurials This led the way to what may be considered the greatest discovery in syphilitic therapeutics of modern times— namely, the introduction of iodide of potassium as a remedy against syphilis. 1 have already said that it is to Wallace, of this city, that man- kind is indebted for this boon. I am glad to find that Lancereaux, one of the most learned and accomplished writers who has treated of the subject of syphilis, gives, in his exhaustive work, full credit to Wallace for being the first to introduce into practice this agent. Lancereaux says :—“ Wallace, of Dublin, has the merit of having first employed iodide of potassium, of having fixed the doses of it, speci- fied the indications for its use, and thereby of having definitely introduced the iodide into the therapeutics of syphilis, placing this medicament almost upon the same level with mercury. He103 LECTURE IV. commenced his experiments in 1832, and gave tlie results four years later in the form of four lectures.* “ One hundred and tliirty-nine patients were observed, of whom si.x were affected with iritis, six with affections of the testicle, ten with divers diseases of the bones and articulations, ninety- seven with syphilitic skin affections, twenty with lesions of the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, and throat ; finally, three preg- nant women were also submitted to the same treatment, with the object of preserving the foetus from syphilitic affection. The preparation employed, miatura hydriodatls potassce (as it was then called) contained two drachms of iodide of pota.ssium in eight ounces of distilled water. Adults took half an ounce of this mixture four times a-day—that is to say, thirty grains of the iodide per diem.” Lancereaux adds, “ The happy effects of this remedy are so generally recognised, that we cannot refuse to it, in the j)resent day, a place alongside of mercury itself.” Wallace’s success soon attracted the attention of other physicians. In England, Judd, Savile, Winslow', AVilliams ; in France, Trousseau, Ri- * See Lancet, March, 183C.101 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. cord, Gauthier ; in Italy, Brora, Sperino, Pel- lizzari; in Germany, Guzman made trial of it and proved its good eftects. The acute observation of the illustrious Bicord soon detected that it is an agent which exercises more influence over tertiary than secondary symptoms. The deeper affections of the skin and mucous membranes, the gummy tumours of the cellular tissue, the lesions of the bones—such are the conditions which yield most readily to the use of iodide of potassium. It has been likewise recognised that it may be advantageously employed even in larger doses than those at first recommended by Wal- lace ; by degrees it may be increased from fifteen grains to one drachm or even more daily. You have lately seen in No. 8 Ward a remarkable instance of the efficacy of this medicine in the case of a woman named Looney, suffering from nodes and very dis- tracting osteocopic pains. She was ordered ten grains three times a-day, but by mistake took double that dose, taking sixty grains in the day ; she was relieved almost as by magic. Although less prompt in its action, you saw the large nodes on the forehead of Williams, inLECTURE IV. 105 No. 2 Ward, gradually vanish under its use. Wallace made some amends for the grievous offence he was guilty of in inoculating healthy subjects w'ith the poison of syphilis. I approach the subject of the use of mercury with some diffidence, not because I .itrc y. not made up my mind upon this point, but because I feel that I cannot convey to you my convictions upon this im- portant subject. My convictions are founded upon facts and observations witnessed by my- self. You have merely my testimony, and you have on the other side the testimony of persons (piite as trustworthy, and as anxious to teach what they believ'e to be true. You arc placed in the centre of a dilemma ; you can only get out of it by keeping your eyes open and observ- ing for yourselves—observing cases not for a few weeks or months, as you usually see them in hospital, but for years ; observing, in short, such cases (as everyone has some opportunity of watching) as are likely to come in your way again and again through life, and noting whether those treated by mercury arc, after two, three, four, or five years, better men than those treated without it.LECTURKS ON VENERP^AL DISEASES. My experience lias led me to assume these two propositions as true— 1st. Upon most men mercury acts in a way very detrimental to the constitution. 2nd. In the majority of cases true syphilis can be cured without it. Hence it follows that I have recourse to mer- curials as little as possible. Now, gentlemen, as regards the first of these ])ropositions, I am aware that you will find many persons who have used mercury a good deal in their practice, who will assure you that it does no harm. That is not my experience. Let me call some witnesses, whose evidence will weigh with you as though it were given on oath from the witness-box :— Sir Astley Cooper.—“ It is lamentable to think on the number of lives which must have been destroyed by phthisis and otherwise, in consequence of the imprudent administration of mercury which prevailed among the older sur- geons. The health of a patient is perhaps irre- mediably destroyed by this treatment.” Q. “ Have you ever been able to trace any connection between the excessive use of mer- cury and those symptonxs which are generally designated tertiary syphilis ? ”107 LECTURE IV. A. (Mr. Hilton)—“ I have; and 1 think it is tlie deterioration of the health by the medicine, and not by the disease: that is my belief.” (). “ Have you seen bad effects from pushing the mercurial course too far ? ” A. (Mr. Paget)—“ Yes ; and I believe the woi*st thing syphilis can produce is produced with the help of mercury. Mlien the latter is carried too far, or so given as to injure severely tlie system of the patient, the effects are much worse than would be produced by syphilis if lelt alone.” Professor Svme, of Edinburgh.—“ I regard mercury, not in all constitutions, but in many, as a poison. A very small (piantity may be suf- ficient for the purpose. I believe that the modified use of mercury has perhaps done more, or as mucli, harm as the profuse admin- istration of it.” “ Have you noticed the effects of syphilis on persons in after life, and do you believe that it tends to depreciate the health in after life? ” A. “ That is a question, I think, of whether it is syphilis or mercury. I shall not say which, but undoubtedly people who have suffered from these two retain through life a peculiarity in108 LECTUUES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. appearance and a proclivity to disease very different from their neighbours.” “ You used mercurials in your practice in early life. Having tested it fairly, were you induced to forego it as an anti-syphilitic agent, and to rely upon simple remedies ?” A. “Yes. I think that mercury frequently relieves the existing S3unptoins of the disease, but it seems to have an effect upon the con- stitution which exposes the patient to some subsequent attack in a more aggravated fonn.” — Vide Beport of Venereal Committee. \ I think, gentlemen, I need call no more wit- nesses to prove that mercury is a rather dange- rous weapon to handle : that he who would not “ push it too far ” had better not use it at all in cases of “ verole faible ”—in cases which can certainly be cured without it.Gentlemen, In the concluding words of the previous lecture I attempted to impress you witli the conviction that mercury acts upon most men in a way detrimental to the constitution. I am, however, far from denying the powerful influ- ence it exercises over the symptoms of syphilis. I^t me, to-day, briefly consider the methods after which it is administered in the present time. Mercurials used in the treatment of syphilitic, as well as other maladies, are sometimes given as alteratives—that is, in the hope of putting the patient in a better condition of health, but without producing any marked mercurial effect. Sometimes tlicy are given with the in- tention of producing in a more or less decided degree the peculiar effect known as mercurial- ization. Besides tliese effects, it a})pears to me that110 LECTUllES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. some mercurial applications are only local in their action. These actions of ditferent mer- curials, or of mercurials used in ditferent me- thods, must be carefully discriminated from each other. To one of them only can ve assign any of that influence which has been called, .and is still regarded by many as specific. I have stated in a former lecture, that I have never known anything like constitutional mer- curial action from the use of calomel ointment; yet this is a very useful ointment in many skin affections — syphilitic and other ; its action seems to be local. Citrine ointment may also be used, more or less diluted, and rubbed ex- tensively over the body. I think it is of real service in clearing away various eruptions, but I have never known it produce any affection of the gums. The ointment of the red iodide of mercury, so useful in lupoid ulcerations, also appears to have only a local action. Extensive condylomata, l)y cleanliness and dusting the surface with powdered calomel, are quickly cured ; yet here also there seems to be nothing more than a local effect. Possibly the sublimed calomel of the calomel vapour-bath.LECTURE V. Ill 'on wliicli I have already given my opinion, may have some similar local effect. Administered as an alterative, many mercu- rials are given internally at considerable inter- vals, sometimes combined with aperients, or more frecpiently and in small doses. Corrosive sublimate is much used in this way. It forms the mercurial ingredient in the pill of Dupuytren,* the liquor of Van-Swietcn,f and the decoction of Zittman.;^ In the treatment known • Formula for Dupuytren’s pill:— li. Oorro&ivi sublimati, gr. l-5th or E-xtracti opii a<)UOHt, gr. (luiaei resinap, gr. iv. M. Fiat pilula. t Formula for the liquor of Van Swieten - a. Corroaivi sublimati, gr. viij. Spiritu.s rvctifioati, SifW. A<}ua! distillaUe, $xivsa. M. From two to four ilraclima daily, divided into three or four doaes, and given in milk or decoction of aareaparilla, with some syrup of jioppies, if it causes any pain in the bowels, t Formula for “ Zittmau’s decoction” :— DECOCTION NO. 1. R. Iladicis Sarsie, 5x«j. Aquie, lb. xxiv. Roil for a quarter of an hour, and add the three following sub- stances tieil up in a muslin bag :— Alumiuis, iins. C.'al<.>melauos, 3ss. Hydrargyri sulphureti, 5i. (Cinnabar.)1 12 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. in Germany as the Dzondi method, tlie same preparation is used, but is rapidly increased in quantity. Thus, twelve grains of the sublimate are made into 240 pills. Four pills are given the first day, and every second day they are in- creased by two, until it becomes thirty a day. Boil until the whole is reduced one-third, and add— Fol. senna*, 5iij. Rail, glycerrhizse, 5j. Auisi seminum. Fieniculi fructus, aa., Sss. Infuse for a few minutes, and strain. This decoction is called the “strong decoction.” DECOCTION NO. 2. Add to the residue of No. 1 decoction— Radicis sarsas, 5ij. Aquie, lb. xxiv. Boil and add— Linionis cort. Cannellie albjfi cort. Cardamomi seminum. Rad. glycerrhizffi, aa., 3iij. Infu.se for a few minutes, and strain. Tliis is called the “ weak decoction.” The first day the patient takes a purge ; every morning he takes half a pint of decoction No. 1 ; he drinks it hot and re- mains in bed. In the afternoon he takes a pint of decoction No. 2, and in the evening half a pint of decoction No. 1 ; these doses are taken cold. He continues this for four days, and on the fifth takes another purge ; then resumes the decoctions as before for four days, and follows on the fifth with another purge. After a week of rejiose this treatment is again resumed, if ne- cessary. During the treatment a strict regimen is enforced.LECTURE V. 113 Of Zittman’s decoction tlie mercurial action is certainly nothing more than alterative. Al- though it is calomel which is used in making it, yet the prolonged boiling with the other ingre- dients causes a small quantity of tliis to be dis- solved in the form—as 1 am told by Dr. E. Davy, who examined it for me—of corrosive sublimate. 1 have seen very good effects from the so- called Zittman treatment. Mr. Erasmus Wilson speaks very highly of it. His evidence, in an- swer to the Venereal Committee, is as follows;— 1^. “ Have you any experience of the Zittman treatment ?” A. “ Yes.” Q. “ Mdiat is the result of your observations upon that ?” A. “ Tlie result is that a patient witli the very worst form of syphilis—the most irritable form, in wliich mercury cannot be given—seems to be entirely cured at the end of ten days.” Q. “ You say, seems to be ? ” A. “1 would say, cured, because I have known instances in wdiich the disease has never re- turned. Sometimes it is necessary to repeat the Zittman treatment a second or third time after an interval of some inontbs.”114 LECTUUKS ON VENEREAL DISEASES. Tlie exact decoctions, according to Zittman’s formulae, arc so troublesome to prepare, that I have adopted the following in imitation, as being more convenient :— a Extract! Wirsa; liqnidi, 5>j. Syrup! senna’, 5j. Ains! essent!ie, 5j. Extract! glycerrlnza*, 5j. Aquae foeinculi, ad. 5v!ij. M. bene ; fiat niistura. Mark, No. 1. a Alun)!nis, ^88. Corros!v! subliniati, gr. ij. Glycerin!, 5j. Aqua?, ad 5iij. M. et solve. Mark, No. 2. We begin on the first day with a purge of compound colocynth pill. Every morning the patient takes, in half a pint of hot water, one tablespoonful of No. 1 and one teaspoonful of No. 2 bottle. In the afternoon he takes, in one pint of cold water, half a tablespoonful of No. 1 and one tablespoon fill of No. 2 bottle. In the evening he takes the same dose as in the morning, but cold. Me keeps his bed and continues this treatment for four days; on the fifth he takes onlyLECTURE V. 115 another purge ; then recommences for four days more as at first, and again on the fifth day another purge. Treatment is then stopped for one week, at the end of which time it is again resumed if necessary. The patient should, during treatment, remain in bed, and make no unnecessary exertion. lie is allowed a cup of tea and dry toast for break- fast ; the same in' the evening; a cutlet or mutton chop, with a little vegetable and bread,- for dinner. Mr. Erasmus Wilson says he has found per- sons so fascinated by this mode of treatment, that they have put themselves under it without his knowing anything about it, and that in very bad cases indeed. It owes its merits to its sweating, purging, and diuretic action ; and certainly does not debilitate at all so much as one might expect. As regards the administration of mercury given with the intention of producing marked mercurial efiects on the system, the world lias seen divers methods. In the good old times there were “ the great mercurial unction,” and “the mild mercurial unction.” You should 8*116 LECTUKES ON VENEKEAL DISEASES. read Astruc’s account of tliese, written some- thing more than a century ago. He says— “ 1st. Of the great mercurial unction.” “ A full regular spitting being once raised, the second stage of the cure commences, of which we shall now speak. “ We call that a full regular spitting in which a thick, tenacious, viscid, and pituitary saliva flows out of the mouth to the quantity of five or six pints in twenty-four hours. But I would not be understood to mean this at the begin- ning or at the end of a salivation, when the split- ting is not in so great pdeiity, but at the height of the j)tyalism, when I think the regular dis- charge ought to be from three to six pints. If the discharge is less than three pints it will be too small, and not conquer the disease, unless it be continued beyond the usual number of days. If it exceeds the bounds of six pints it will be too violent, and not be borne by the patient for a sufficient time to get the better of the dis- temper. If the ptyalism keeps within due bounds it is neither to be encouraged nor re- strained, but to be kept to the same height for fifteen, eighteen, tw’enty or twenty-five days, as it shall be more or less plentiful.”LECTURE V. 117 “ ^nd. Of the gentler method of mercurial unction: ”— “ Whereby the disease is cured by a very gentle salivation ; you should proceed slowly and cautiously through the whole course of the cure, with gentle unctions used at due intervals, taking care that no bad accident may happen by bringing on a violent and too precipitate jjtyalism. But if you find it necessary, the dose of ointment maybe increased, or the intervals between the frictions shortened, in such a manner that after the fourth or fifth friction a sidivation may be raised—not a precipitate tumultuous one, bringing on a sudden swelling upon the face, head, and neck, inflammatory, burning, ulcerous, irrestrainable, immoderate, in which the discharge of saliva amounts every day to eight, nine, or ten pints—such a one as is frequently produced by the greater method of unction, by whicli many patients are suffocated, and most are brought into manifest danger of their lives ; but, on the contrary, a slow gentle spitting, easy to be managed, attended with no swelling of the head, a very gentle inflammation, and a moderate discharge, which never exceeds tlie quantity of a pint or two in118 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. every four-aiid-twcnty hours. The spitting is kept up to the same height during the whole course of the cure.” Some higlily esteemed practitioners in the present day have recourse to treatment whicli is virtually the same as Astruc’s milder unction; they would hesitate to use such plain and vigo- rous language in describing it, but etfectively it is the same. The system of Kicord is, how- ever, now-a-days more the fashion. Ricord adopts a less severe but much more prolonged method of exhibiting mercury. AVhen the chancre is indurated, he gives it from the first, and prefers its internal administra- tion ; when this is inadmissible, he employs inunction or fumigation. He docs not desire to salivate, but continues the mercurial treat- ment for months, stopping it for a time if sali- vation comes on, and arresting this with chlo- rate of potash, given in doses of from 40 to 60 grains a-day. The mercurial course is followed by one not quite so long of iodide of potassium, in doses of from 20 to 60 grains a-day. Some persons agree with Mr. Syme in think- ing that the tedious process of introducing mercury into the system adopted by Ricord119 LECTURE V. and his followers injures the constitution as much as, if not more than, the short, sharp, and decisive salivation of Astruc and his school. I have myself seen several cases in which, unintentionally or by accident, a “full regular spitting was raised,” producing a marvellous effect upon symptoms which seemed only aggra- vated by the milder method. It is not improbable that the observation of cases of profuse salivation accidentally brought on first, induced our forefathers to adopt a prac- tice which unquestionably is occasionally fol- lowed by very striking results. I have met with cases in which ulcers, either syphilitic or of suspected syphilitic origin, have been treated with mercurials until the gums became affected with no better effect than that of making the sore exquisitely irritable, so that the patient would shriek with pain when the dressings were removed. A dose of calomel given with the intention of purging, but failing to do so, has called forth an excessive salivation, or an enema of black wash thrown into the rectum by a mistake of the attendant has produced a like effect, and instantly the whole aspect of attairs has changed, and the ulcer healed up as120 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. if by ma^ic. No one wlio is candid will deny to mercury tliis influence in certain cases—not of syphilis alone ; but candour also requires that we shall recognise its baneful influence on the constitution in a very large proportion of individuals. I have said that I have seen several cases of this sort. 1 recollect Mr. Paget mentioning to me a case of the kind, which, by the accident of giving an enema of black wash, had occurred in his practice. T have also seen cases in which there was no reason to suspect any syphilitic taint, where an unintentional hyper-salivation produced great and prompt benefit. A woman was extensively scalded in the back and shoulder ; after the sloughs had separated, a large and exquisitely irritable ulcer remained; exuberant flabby granulation rose from its sur- face ; it was directed to be dressed with black- wash ; after some days of this application to so large a surface, the patient was found to be profusely salivated. At once the entire cha- racter of the granulations altered, the sensibi- lity diminished, and the ulcer healed rapidly. I learned that, some months before, this pa- tient had been mercurialized for an injury to her eye ; she denied ever having had syphilis ;121 LECTURE V. was married to a respectable man, and was the mother of three healthy children. Such cases are instructive ; yet we should not think of adopting the practice of salivation for ulcers resulting from burns ; no more should I advocate a return to the method of Astruc for treating venereal ulcers in general. Some one of you has asked me this very prac- tical question : “ How do the bulk of practi- tioners in the present day treat venereal ulcers on the genital organs ? ” Xow this question embraces all sorts of sores, both simple and syphilitic, and I think I may answer it in a double fashion. 1st. I may speak for the mass of practitioners spread over the length and breadth of tlie land. 2nd. For those who, in large cities, connected possibly with medical schools and hospitals, or as specialists, may be supposed to be on the whole more intimately acquainted with the subject. From my own experience, 1 unhesitatingly say that the first class, as a rule, give mercury in some form in the treatment of all venereal ulcers. This is not to be wondered at; the great mass of practitioners carry through life much of what they picked up as students ; they follow the dicta of their most respected masters;LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 122 hence we see the practice of such a man as Colles living long after him ; lasting in fact longer than it would, had he lived to modify it according as advancing science shed more light upon the subject. Even tlie illustrious Colles could not know what was not known in his time; viz,—that tlic simple and the syphilitic sore are quite distinct; that the former is much the commoner, and does not need mercury either to cure it, or to prevent the secondary affec- tions, which under no circumstances would succeed to it. lie, as a rule, gave mercury to all ; so do his pupils, and they still fancy that they are in many cases preventing the occur- rence of constitutional symptoms, when in rea- lity it is the nature of the disease that no such symptoms ever follow it. They do what we are all prone to do, they attribute to the action of their mercurial course what is really simply due to the non-infecting character of the com- plaint. But, gentlemen, setting aside ray own personal views, I think that it is to the practice of the second class that you should look for the real answer to the question—to the practice of those whose position makes it, in fact, necessary for them to be acquainted with the teachings ofLECTUBE V. 123 inodeni science on this subject. Now, perhaps, the best reply I can give to this question is by again calling some witnesses from among those examined before the Venereal Committee, and letting them speak to you for themselves. Let me first call Thomas Byrne, Esq., F.lt.C.S.T., a "entleman whose name is well- known to you, and who has had the vast experi- ence, arising from over 32 years’ connection with the Westmoreland Lock Hospital in this city. (^. “ Do you employ mercury in the treat- ment of both sores ? ” A. “ 1 never use it for the soft sore.” “Do you give mercury in every case of indurated chancre ?” A. “ I do.” 2nd. AVilliam Acton, Esq., formerly extern to the Venereal Hospital in Paris, and who may be taken as representing the views of the school of M. Iticord. (b “Do you give mercury for primary sores ?” A. “ Wlien I have well ascertained that a sore is an indurated chancre, I do immediately.” 3rd. George Busk, Esq., F.K.S., surgeon to tlie Dread noil <j/tt hospital sliip.LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES- 124 Q. “ Do you ever treat the primary sore with mercury ? ” A. “ Yes ; at any rate, all indurated sores.” 4th. Victor De Meric, Esq., Surgeon to the Royal Free Hospital. Q. “Do you treat the primary sore with mercury ? ” A. “ I treat the primary indurated sore with mercury. T do not wait until the so-called secondaries have appeared.” 5th. Langston Parker, Esq., Surgeon to the (Queen’s Hospital, Hirmingham. “ I should abolish the treatment of a soft chancre by mercury altogether, as a rule. In a sore specifically indurated I should gi\m mer- cury with one object, not to prevent the se- condary taint which should follow, but to heal the ulcer itself, which will not heal sometimes without mercury.” Gth. Jonathan Hutchinson, Esq., Surgeon to the London Hospital. Q. “ I believe you do not treat the primary sores with mercury ? ” A. “ The indurated sores I do.” “ But not the soft sores ? ” A. “No.”125 LECTUllE V. Q. “ Do you treat the indurated sore invaria- Idy with mercury ? ” A. “ I do. I may state that I treated for two years, at the Metropolitan tree Hospital, all indurated sores without mercury ; for the sake of the experiment, I systematically desisted from the use of it, but I have now gone back to the use of mercury. I now always prescribe it for a primary indurated sore.” 7th. Sir William Ferguson, Dart, F.U.S., Professor of Surgery, and Surgeon to King’s College Hospital. Q. “ How do you treat the common soft sore ? ” A. “ With plain water, a bit of lint and water locally applied, a little attention to the general health, keeping the bowels regular, and the skin in correct condition, also paying atten- tion to the habits of the patient and the diet.” Q. “ How' do you treat the primary hard sore which we should all deem to be syphilitic ? ” A. “ I would still, whatever sore it might be, go on with the water dressing, until I saw’ that the hardness w'as fully developed ; after that, if 1 had not already used any specific remedy (that is to say, a remedy to have a specific12G LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. effect oil tlie constitution, such as blue pill in moderate quantities, or iodide of potassium), I would then begin one or other of these. I should very likely start with a little blue pill, thinking that it would probably put the patient into a better state of health, and 1 should pro- ceed moderately with that, using it as an alter- ative, and not with a vicAv of producing any very marked effects of mercury. If I were satisfied that the patient were in a better con- dition and in good health, with the exception of the sore, I should not use this remedy long, but very likely administer iodide of potassium, sar- saparilla, or some other agent that would have a beneficial effect on the system.” 8th. James Paget, Esq., F.R.S., Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Q. “ Do you use mercury largely in the treatment of primary sores, taking first the soft sore ? ” A. “ Never in the soft sore, unless I found after a long time that all other means failed, and I thought that 1 had made a mistake with a primary hard sore ; then, assuming the condi- tion of the patient to be such as would fairly127 LECTURE V. benr a careful use of mercury, I should always give it.” You will naturally attribute much weight to the testimony of such witnesscss. You perceive that there is considerable unanimity among them ; they all attach great importance to the hardness ; this symptom is that which deter- mines mercurial treatment. The simple vene- real sore they cure without it. Syphilitic sores, without hardness, they deal with on expectant princijdes. A few practitioners of note, as Mr. Erichsen, give mercury for both sores, lie says, “ Both in the soft and hard sores I give mercury.” But we have to set against such persons the highly valuable testimony of some of the most distinguished of our military surgeons, whose peculiarly extensiv’e opportunities of studying accurately these complaints give much autho- rity to their evidence. 9th. Thomas Longmorc, Esq., Professor of ^lilitary Surgery at the Army Medical School, Netley. Q. “ Including the entire class of cases based on deposit more or less hard, do you, as a rule, employ mercury, cither local or through the128 LECTUUKS ON VENEREAL DISEASES. constitution, for the primary treatment of the sores ?” A. “ Not for the primary treatment ; I have given up that for years.” (^. “ What is your reason for relinquishing it ?” A. “ It is, that I have been taught by expe- rience not to believe that the development of secondary symptoms is prevented by giving mercury, and my impression is that the second- ary symptoms are more tractable, if it be not given for the treatment of the primary sore.” 10th. George E. Blenkins, Esq., Surgeon- Major, Grenadier Guards., Q. “ I think }^ou stated that you did not treat either the primary or secondary manifestations of the disease with mercury ? ” A. “For the last twenty-six years I have not done so. For the first year of my experience in the Guards I adopted the same practice that I found every one else pursuing to a large ex- tent, but I saw so many bad forms of the so- called tertiary syphilis where the bones became carious, that I was inclined to follow the treat- ment that I heard had been pursued in the army before Sir James M‘Gregor’s cases were made known. Ever since that period, twenty-129 LECTURE V. six years ago, I have adopted tliat plan rigidly, and have never swerved from it, although it has been attempted to laugh me out of it, and I have been almost told that I have been doing what was incorrect. But I have invariably pursued one system of treatment, and I am perfectly satisfied that in the long run I have been the gainer, and the patient too.” 11th. Dr. Jefiery Marston, Assistant-Surgeon, Royal Artillery, Portsmouth. Q. “ Do you consider it necessary to give mercury in all cases of ])rimary sores based on thickening or induration ? ” A. “No.” Q. “ Do you observe that the administration of mercury has an offect on the period required for the healing of the primary sore ? ” A. “ In some cases it has, but sores often heal by local remedies only.” Q. “ You cannot lay down a rule as to the administration of mercury ? ” A. “No. There arc many things to be taken into consideration. I do not now commonly give mercury in the primary stage, unless the Induration be dense or large.” I feel justified, therefore, upon the whole, in 9130 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. stating in answer to the question which I liave been asked, that the vast majority of well-in- formed practitioners in the present day do not give mercury until they are certain that the case is one of true constitutional syphilis. All doubtful cases are watched; they are treated with simple measures and survcilhince. I have already said that the hardness is an important but by no means absolutely constant symptom of a syphilitic sore ; when it does occur, it is regarded by most practitioners as the first proof that the case is one of constitu- tional syphilis. They wait, however, until this or some other unmistakable symptom leaves no doubt that the case is one of constitutional dis- ease ; then, and not till then, do they give mercury. To use a homely phrase, they do not take off their hats to the devil, until they are quite certain that he has come in sight. A few like M. Diday, and I may say myself, if his highness keeps at a distance (only appearing in the form of a “ verole faible”), forego the honor of saluting him, even although we may catch a glimpse of his formidable person ; while one or two staunch heroes like Mr. Blenkins sternly131 LECTURE V. refuse to pay their liomage under any circum- stances. Siicli is, I believe, a true statement of the actual practice of the present time as regards the use of mercury. You will perceive, gentlemen, at a glance, that since the close of the last century King Mercury has lost much of his temporal power. He then, with the aid of a great Lieutenant- General John Hunter, ruled despotically over three races. A great territory, a land flowing — but not with milk and honey — the land of gonorrhoea was beneath his sway. The rest of his people, although as different in race as the Christian from the Jew, dwelt together, as we may say, in the same cities and bowed beneath his sceptre. “ Chancrelles ” and “ chancres ” alike submitted to him. The first revolution deprived him for ever of gonorrhcea-land. The second was tlie revolt of the chancrelles ; this was headed by tlie Gari- baldi of venereal revolutions, the illustrious Ricord, who in his earlier days had struck the last blows wliich had liberated gonorrhoea from the yoke of the tyrant. This second revolution132 LECTURES ON VENEREAL DISEASES. may now be saitl to be accomplisliecl. Ricord has won the freedom of the chancrelles. The mercurial despot of former times is now reduced to the condition (pardon me for saying it) of a constitutional sovereign ; lie reigns only over the true chancres ; even among these there is an agitation going on, and a popular demagogue with wonderful powers as a “ mob orator,” named Paul Diday, bids fair to gain great privi- leges, if not absolute manumission, for the section known as the “ Veroles Faibles.” In medicine, as in politics, there are party struggles, defeats, and victories ; we have our conservatives and our reformers, those who look always back to the “ good old times,” fearing changes, and shaking their heads at any depar- ture from ancient rules of practice, those who are prone, too prone jierhaps, to adopt new ideas, and turn their backs on what time and experience have sanctihed. Retween the two we make progress. Syphilis is a subject which has drawn to itselt the atten- tion and study of some of the greatest minds the world has ever jiroduced ; that our know- ledge of it has advanced so slowly is the surestLECTUBE V. 133 proof of what difficulties and obscurities sur- round it. He who has done aught to penetrate this obscurity, to let into the darkened chamber one ray of light, so as to give the physician armed with a club a better chance of striking the disease and avoiding nature, has achieved much for mankind. Among the.se it is that, with pardonable national vanity, I point to Colles, Carmichael, and Wallace. END OF PART I.1LECTUKES, AND ESSAYS OS THE SCIENCE AND PEACTICE or SUEGEEY. BY ROBERT McDonnell, m.d, f.r.s. FKLLOW XXU MKJIBKR OF TUB COURT OK KX^UN'EBii OK TRK ROYAL COLLEGE OK 8UROBONA IX IRELAXDi PRE8IDE.VT OF TUE PATHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OK DUBLIN ; ONE OP THE SUROEOXa TO DOCTOR 6TKE>'EXS’ HOSPITAL, DUBLIN, ETC. PART 11. THE PHYSIOLOGY & PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. DUBLIN: FANNIN AND CO., 41, GRAFTON STREET. LONDON : LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. 1875.1 4 1 I 1 t i 1 ■'4 ! J .1 i 1 •f , ■ I i 1 i i s 1C 0 N T E N T S . I. —Ckitical Essay on the Physiology and Pathology of THE Spinal Cord :—Rival theories regarding the functions of the cord. —Difficulties of experimental investigation.— Transmission of sensitive impressions through the cord.— Schroeder van der Kolk’s opinion criticized.—Decussation of conductors in the spinal marrow.—Conductors of sensitive impressions.—Vaso-motor system.—Inhibitory influence.— Brown-Siquard’s explanation of the pains attending cramp and s{iasm.—Ilypenesthesia succeeding division of the lateral half of the spinal cord. ... ... Pages 137 to 216 II. —A New Theory OF Nervous Action as regards the Trans- mission OF Sensation along the Nerves. Pages 217 to 232 III. —Lectures on Physiology appukd to Practice :— Introductory remarks. ... ... Pages 233 to 240 Lecture i.—On the influence of the nervous system over the heart and blood-vessels. ... Pages 240 to 254 Ijccture II.—Reflex phenomena of disease explained through the influence of the nerves over the blood-vessels. Pages 255 to 277 Lecture iii.—On the functions of the spinal cord and me- dulla oblongata. ... ... Pages 277 to 300 Lecture iv.—Explanation of the hypersesthesia resulting from a division of a lateral half of the spinal cord.— Of the sensation accom]>onyiug muscular contraction and the pains of cramp and spasm, etc.—Of the artificial ]>roduction and setiology of epilepsy in animals. Pages 300 to 320II. PARTESSAYS AND LECTURES OX THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. Some years ago, when Dr. Brown-S^quard de- livered a course of lectures in Dublin on the “ Physiology' and Pathology’ of the Central Ner- vous System,” I assisted in preparing his experi- ments.' 1 had, in consequence, an opportunity of testing with more care than his other hearers the resulting phenomena. Moreover, the spinal cords of the animals experimented upon came into my hands. Having hardened them in spirit, I subsequently examined the exact lesion in each case, and compared it with the symptoms noted during life. Feeling that it was necessaiy* still further to138 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY verify his researches, I myself repeated many of his experiments. I availed myself of this oppor- tunity of showing to my pupils some of the most fundamental of these experiments, which so pro- foundly modified the views held up to that time, as to the functions of the spinal cord. The following essay, therefore, and the lectures here published, are not a mere analytical critique. These pages contain, in truth, an experimental criticism, or critical verification of Dr. Brown- S^quard’s discoveries. In scientific progress, veri- fication is the handmaid of discovery. The humble function of the handmaid is, however, as necessary in establishing the truth of new views, as is that of the mason in constnicting an edifice designed by the most gifted architect. That the physiological researches detailed in this Part were not barren of practical results will, I trust, appear when I come to speak of injuries and diseases of the spine. “ These Lectures* contain the results of the * Course of Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Central N'ervous System, delivered at the Royal College of Sur- geons of England, in May, 1858, by C. E. Brown-S6quard, M.D., F.B.S., &c. London ; Willianis and Norgate, 8vo, pp. 276, 1860.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 13i) work of almost all my life, since I began to study medicineso says Dr. Brown-S^quard in his preface : those, therefore, who have studied the numerous memoirs of this able physiologist, ^^^ll expect to find little absolutely new in the pages of his book. That large class of readers, however, whose varied occupations prevent them from following such inve.stigations through the reports of societies and the pages of periodicals, will be glad to find embodied in one volume, the most important results of the labour of Dr. Brown- S^quard’s life. Since the year 1838, Dr. Brown- S(^quard has devoted jill his disposable time to the study of the great questions connected with the physiolog}'- of the nervous centres. How vast, during this period, have the changes been in the aspects of many of these questions; how different the views put forward, both as to the minute structure and functions of the neiTous centres ; how discordant the opinions of the ablest microscopists ; how inconclusive the reasoning of various physiologists I All this shows, at least, the amazing intricacies Jind difficulties which surround the subject ; and when we look to the records of the past, and contemplate the altera- tions which we are now forced to make concern-1 40 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY ing opinions and views which some twenty or thirty yearn ago were regarded as perfectly established, we, indeed, perceive the folly of at- tempting to dogmatize upon such questions. If we turn to the Report on the Physiology of the Xervous System, presented to the British Asso- ciation at its Cambridge meeting in 1833, by Dr. W. C. Henry, of Manchester, we find that although this was the work of a most careful and accomplished gentleman, many theories were assumed by him as having been, at that time, unquestionably proved, which are now over- turned. In the concluding recapitulation of that report, as among the “ most important facts that have been fully ascertained in the physiology of the nervous system,” the author asserts that the function of the spinal cord is simply that of a conductor of motive impulses from the brain to nerves supplying the muscles, and of sensitive impressions from the surface of the body to the sensorium commune ; and that these two vital offices reside in distinct portions of the spinal meduUa—the propagation of motion in its ante- rior columns, the transmission of sensation in its posterior columns. How changed upon this subject are the ideas of to-day !AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 141 Before entering upon an analysis of the opin- ions of Dr. Brown-S^quard on the physiology of this nervous centre (the spinal cord), it may not he amiss to state what other views have been put forward, and what generally accepted, since Sir Charles Bell propounded that which was adopted as fulhj ascertained by Dr. Henr}", in the report just alluded to. I need not do more than mention in the most cursory way the experi- ments of Fodera, who, on dividing one posterior column of the spinal cord in the cer\dcal region, produced loss of feeling in the opposite side, and loss of movement in the same, and who, on re- peating the same experiment in the lumbar re- gion, obtained results diametrically opposite : or those of Backer, who, on cutting across the pos- terior columns, obseiwed a destruction of both feeling and motion in the posterior limbs: or of Schoeps, who, on re})cating the same experiment, thought that he found sensilulity persisting, and motion destroyed, in the posterior extremities. The ^^ews of Bellingeri, that the anterior columns of the spinal cord are a bundle of nerve fibres animating the fiexor muscles, and that the posterior columns contain the nerve fibres anima- ting the extensor muscles, are more deserving of142 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY a critical investigation, because, in these later times, they have been, to a certain extent, adopt- ed by a person of acknowledged ability, the learned Professor Valentin. The now modified notions of M. Moritz Schiff, who holds that the grey matter transmits along the cord painful impressions, while simple tactile impressions are conveyed along the posterior columns, must'not be forgotten. Nor can I pass over in silence the statements of Professor Schroeder van der Kolk, that, in his opinion, the grey matter in the spinal cord seiwes solely for motion, the posterior rather for reflex action and the co-ordination of movements, whilst sensation is transmitted up- wards through the ijosterior and lateral meduUaiy columns. The opinion of the last-named Profes- sor is the more deserving of criticism, inasmuch as his work is universally in the hands of British readers; yet I confess that I am quite at a loss to understand the reasoning on which his opin- ions are founded. He, indeed, draws his con- clusions especially from the phenomena produced by str}’chnia in a dog ; but his line of argument appears to me so entirely inconclusive, that I am almost forced to infer that there is some typo- graphical error in the expression of his opinion asAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 143 above stated. If it be not so, then, indeed, a very- useful lesson is to be drawn from the deductions of the learned Professor. AVe are taught how very dangerous it is to hang physiological theo- ries upon a frame-work, such as the anatomist sees, or fancies he sees, in the structures of the nervous centres. But it will become my duty, further on, to analyse the reasonings of Professor Schroeder van der Kolk, when comparing them with those of Brown-S^quard. Passing from these, as I may call them, sub- Tworivaitheo- Ordinate theories, concerning the nes re^d- pj-gcise functions of the various tracts mgthefuuc- ^ tions of the of the spinal cord, I come to the ■ two great rivals which have for some time struggled, with var}’ing success, for accept- ance before the leading physiologists of Europe, viz., that of Sir Charles Bell, as modified by M. Louget, which had been generally adopted in France and England; and that for the most part admitted in Germany, and, with many minor nmdifications, adopted by Van Deen, Valentin, Stilling, and otlieis. The theory of Sh Charles Bell, as modified and completed by Longet, has been, until quite re- cently, so generally accepted in this countiy,144 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY aud is so universally known, that it is hardly necessary to state it. In brief, upon this theory, the spinal mari-ow is regarded at once as a ner- vous centre enjoying an activity of its own, and as a conductor intended to place the muscles, the surface, and various organs, in connexion with the encephalon; this double function is considered as due to the two kinds of substance which enter into its composition. As a centre, it is a pro- ducer of reflex phenomena, which property is due to the grey matter, a substance supposed to be devoid of the power of conveying either sensa- tive impressions or mandates of the will to muscles; the conducting faculty resides entirely in the white substance of the columns of the cord; the posterior columns are regarded as being destined exclusively for the transmission of sensi- tive impressions to the encephalon, while, on the contrary, the anterior and lateral columns are the sole channels through which the influence of the will is conveyed to the muscles. In other words, the posterior columns aud tlieii’ corresponding neiwe roots are regarded as centripetal conduct- ors; the anterior and lateral columns, with the anterior nerve roots, as centrifugal conductors, while the grey matter is the dynamical, or force-AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 145 generating element of this nervous centre. The human mind loves systems, and it found in this theory something so simple and so seductive as to be almost irresistible. Yet now it must be set aside, and recorded in the histoiy^ of physi- ology with many other brilliant but deceptive doctrines. Van Deen has propounded, and Valentin, Stil- ling, and otheis have, with various modifications, adopted a theory in one respect fundamentally differing from the foregoing—they assign to the grey matter the function of conducting impres- sions. According to Stilling, whose beautiful re- searches in anatomy, physiology, and pathology, have done so much for science, the posterior half of the grey substance of the spinal marrow is the channel for the transmission of sensitive im- pressions to the encephalon. Moreover, accord- ing to his theory, there is no determinate and invariable course for sensitive impreasions, which may pass equally well by either lateral portions of gi’ey matter ah-cady indicated. Indeed, Stil- ling holds that a very small jxtrtion of the grey matter is still sufficient to permit the transmis- sion of sensitive imjjressions coming from parts situated behind the lesion. Although this theory146 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY cannot at the present time be accepted as exact, yet it will be found that it contains important elements of tiaitli, in assigning to the grey matter conducting power. Tt is a remarkable instance of how much may be done l)y bold assertion, even when altogether unsupported by facts, that it has been so general- ly believed that the grey matter is devoid of the power of conducting impressions, and that its true function is dynamical—that it is destined to produce nerve force. A moment s reflection serves to show that every nerve, after separation from the cerebro-spinal axis, nevertheless contains in itself the elements necessar)^ to originate the vis nervosa or neurility,'*'’ as it has been very well named, for this force may be called into being l)y the excitation of ever so small a portion of such a nerve by electrical, chemical, or mechani- cal stimulation. On the other hand, however much the minute anatomist may have failed to point out precisely what becomes of the roots of the nerves—whatever discrepancies may exist among the researches of Hannover, Stilling, Ei- genbrodt, Blattmann, Kolliker, Wagner, Lock- hart Clarke, Schilling, Gratiolet, Owsjanuikow, * Au admirable term, for which we aie iudebted to E. H. Lewes.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 147 Schroeder van der Kolk, Bidder, Remak, Kup- fer, and others—the great majority of these anato- mists, at least agree that a great number of the fibres from the posterior nerve roots pass directly into the grey substance. In this fact alone we have good anatomical evidence that the grey mat- ter is connected with the transmission of sensitive impressions. We find, like^dse, strong presump- tive evidence to the same effect, in the circum- stance that so many most skilful experimentali.sts, engaged in investigations quite independently of each other, and differing in some respects widely from one another, have nevertheless agreed in atti-ibuting to the grey matter some share in the transmission of sensitive impressions. The hypothesis of ^larshall Hall has nothing in it directly at variance with such a supposition; that of Todd and Bowman assumes that all nen^es are implanted in the grey matter, and do not pass beyond it, and that the segments of the cerebro-spinal axis are connected with each other through the continuity of the grey matter ; Wilde Bellingeri, Valentin, Schiff, Van Deen, Volkmann, StOling, and other physiologists, are led by their experiments, however contradictory in other respects, to grant to the grey matter conducting power.148 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY The greater part of Dr. Bro^Yn-S^quard^s lec- Experimentai f'^res are devotecl to an attempt to investigation determine with scientific precision, of the cord , , i i i difficult and ''^hat arc the exact channels m the perplexing, spinal cord and medulla oblongata through which sensitive impressions are transmit- ted and through which the influence of the will is conveyed to muscles. In making this attempt, Dr. Brown-S^quard has recourse to experimental investigation on animals, while he also tries to corroborate the conclusions thus arrived at by reference to pathological cases; and even those who may not regard his arguments as in all respects conclusive, I venture to assert, vdll not peruse his book without admitting that he gives a masterly analysis of the pathological cases liear- ing upon these questions, which lie has collect- ed from the most varied sources, with so much labour and so much care. As an experimentalist, he has disproved the assertion of one of the most eminent physiologists that these islands has ever produced, that ‘'direct experiments afford no aid in determining the functions of the columns of the spinal cord.” I freely admit that attempts to expose this organ either in living or dead animals are surrounded with difficulties, which embarrassAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 149 the experimenter, and weaken the force of his in- ferences. The depth at which the spinal cord is situated in most vertebrate animals, its extreme excitability, the intimate connections of its va- rious parts vdth one another, so that one can scarcely be irritated without the others being affected, the proximity of the roots of its nerves to each other, the difficulty of stimulating one portion of the cord itself without affecting either the anterior or posterior roots, are great impedi- ments to accurate experiments; and when we consider these difficulties, we see a sufficient ex- planation of the discrepancies which are apparent in the recorded results of experiments under- taken by so many able observ^ers. But these difficulties, great though they un- questionably are, are not insurmountable; they reflect, indeed, great honour upon liim who has done so much to overcome them, but they also teach how slow we ought to be in admitting proofs upon this subject, drawn from experi- mental sources; and with what caution and care we should examine the tests to which such ex- perimental enquiries have been submitted, before we can accord to their results, as stated by any investigator, our sanction and belief. The tests150 CRITICAL ESSAY OX THE PHYSIOLOGY to which the fundamental experiments of Dr. Brown-S^quard have been submitted, have been of the most trying nature; his ideas as to the channels through which sensitive impressions and motive commands pass, came before a sceptical public, saturated with very different notions, and his experiments have been repeated before large audiences of such persons at various places in these islands. The more sceptical of his hearers (myself among the numlDer) have made careful autopsies of the animals upon which he had oper- ated, previously hardening the spinal cords in spirit; and not a few have, like myself, repeat- ed his experiments with success. Physiologists whose theoretic views do not harmonize with those of Dr. Brown-S6quard, and who, therefore, may have been presumed to have undertaken them in a critical, if not an antagonistic spirit, have had the candour to confess that their ideas have been modified by a repetition of these ex- periments:'^ and, moreover, his principal asser- tions and experiments have passed with approval through the severe ordeal of a commission, ap- * Compare Schroeder van der Kolk, On the Minute Structure and Functions of the Spinod Cord, translated from the original; Sydenham Society, 1859, p. 51, note.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 151 pointed by the Society de Biologic, and composed of M]\I. Cl. Bernard, Bouley, P. Broca, Girald6s, Goubaux, and Vulpian. At page 42 of his lectures Dr. Brown-S^quard himself observes in a note ; “I must say, that it is absolutely impossible to know, while we make a section of parts of the spinal cord, what is the precise depth of the in- jury; it is mere guess work. But if we study’ well the phenomena, and then after having killed the animal, if we put the spinal cord in alcohol, we render it hard, and we can ascertain exactly what is the extent of the lesion. This Is the means that I always employ in my experiments ; and it is also the means employed by the com- mittee appointed by the Society de Biologie, for the investigation of my researches on the spinal cord.” I think then, that notwithstanding the great and admitted difficulties which surround experi- mentation on the spinal cord, much weight must be given to testimony derived from results tested by so rigid a process. In his second lecture. Dr. Transmission Brown-S(^*quard details the experi- of sensitive ]^y ^q^ich he hopcs to prove in the cord, that the transmission of sensitive im- pressions in the spinal cord, takes place chiefly 11152 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY in its central part, i.e. in the grey matter; and in the following discourse, he enters upon those which show that the conductors of sensitive impressions from the various parts of the trunk and limbs, make their decussation in the spinal cord, and not in the encephalon, as had been generally supposed. He commences by proving that the theory of Longet, with regard to the posterior columns of the cord being the conduct- ors of sensitive impressions, is no longer tenable; he carries on the work of destruction commenced by Sir Charles BeU himself, vigorously urged on by the serious objections brought up against this h}"pothesis by Dr. R. B. Todd, supported more recently by the beautiful anatomical researches of Stilling and Lockhart Clarke, and now comple- ted by his own experiment, showing that a trans- verse. section of the posterior columns, far from being followed by any loss offeeling, is cxcompa- nied by the very reverse effect. So far as the posterior columns are concerned, this single ex- periment annihilates the fascinating theory of Longet, which won its way so speedily into full notoriety, and was so charmingly seductive, be- cause “ it was so orderly a plan and made people remember.” But it had no facts to rest upon.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 153 If, then, the transmission of sensitive impres- Channel for sions does not take place along the trausmiMion columns, it remains to be impressions, found wliat is the channel of their transmission. Is it the grey matter, or some part of the lateral or anterior columns, or aU, or several, of these constituents of the spinal cord ? When the anterior columns alone are dmdcd there is no marked alteration of sensibility. Transverse section of the two lateral columns, in the dorsal region, does not diminish, but in- creases sensibility in the posterior limbs; while sensibility is lost in these parts when the entire spinal cord, with the exception of one lateral col- umn, is divided transversely: hence, it seems that sensitive impressions are not transmitted through these channels. It is quite different with regard to the grey matter. A transverse section of the posterior half of tlie .spinal marrow is attended with diminished sensibility in the posterior extremities; but as we already know that this loss of sensibility Ls not attributable to the division of the posterior, and the portions of the lateral columns thus unavoid- ably divided, it seems necessarily to lie due to the division of the grey matter. Again; trans- 11*1 54 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY verse section of the anterior half of the spinal cord is also attended with diminished sensibility ; but, since we know that this loss is not attribu- table to the division of the anterior columns and of the portions of the lateral columns, it seems again that it must be due to the division of the grey matter. Lastly; if the anterior, lateral, and posterior columns are divided transversely, at a little distance from each other, sensibility persists behind the sections, the grey matter being the only channel which remains for its propagation towards the encephalon. As in this experiment it is impossible not to divide some of the grey matter, sensibility is found diminished, but not destroyed. If one can feel thoroughly satisfied as to these facts, there can be no doubt respect- ing the inference, that sensitive impressions pass, principally, along the grey matter in the spinal cord. Dr. Brown-S^quard, however, does not negative the notion of Calmed and Nonat, that the anterior columns have a share in this func- tion, for he has found that when the entire spi- nal cord has been cut across, leaving only the anterior columns, sensibility, which is at first lost, after a time reappears, and many hours after- wards e^ddently exists everywhere, though in aAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL COED. 155 slight degree ouly; he therefore concludes that these columns have a share, but only a slight one, in the transmission of sensitive impressions to the scnsorium. It is not my intention to enter into any analy- sis of the many and interesting pathological cases adduced by Dr. Bro\vn-S(iquard in support of the views which experimental inquir}^ has led him to adopt. There is one, however, which bears so pointedly upon the question of the con- ducting power of the grey matter for sensitive impressions, that I cannot forbear giving it at full length. “Case 22. A man, aged 44, after having had cramps, foiTnication, and weakness, in the lower limbs, and paralysis of the upper limbs, for a long period, was admitted to La Charite. Sensibility existed eveiywhere. On the evening of Novem- ber 1st he was able to walk, l)ut aided by some- one. Sensibility continued everywhere t<^ the last moment before his death on the 3rd of No- vember, at 3 a.m. “ Autopsy: Encephalon normal. There was induration of the spinal cord, from its upper ex- tremity to the third dorsal vertebra, and from the156 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY sixth dorsal to the lower extremity. The tissue of the cord in these parts being cut, was shining, looking like porcelain, hard and difficult to be crushed. The grey matter was also a little harder than normally, but of its usual colour. The an- terior and posterior roots seemed normal. In the space between the third and sixth dorsal verte- brae, the cord was softened, pultaceous, resem- bling a whitish, or rather slightly rose pulp, punctuated in some places. AVlien placed in water, many parts became disintegrated and form- ed a kind of emulsion. This alteration existed only in the white substance. The grey, on the contrary, seemed to have preserved its normal consistence. The microscope showed that the grey matter in both the softened and indurated parts contained nonnal cells and fibres, and nor- mal blood-vessels ; while the white substance in softened region contained but rare fibres, which were altered, containing an oily matter and granulations. There was also a quantity of granulated corpuscles of inflammation, with many capillaries, oily drops, and amorphous matter ; in the indurated white substance there was less alteration, and the fibres were more normal and numerous. (Laboulb^ne, in the Mhnoires de laAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL COED. 157 Societe de Biologie, 1855.) The author of the report of this case adds that he has ascertained that sensibility to pinching, pricking, toucliing, tickling, feeling of heat and cold, and that due to the muscular spasm caused by galvanism, persisted in this patient, although the white matter, i. e., the posterior and antero-lateral columns had but few and altered fibres remain- ing.” It is obvious from what has l>een ah-eatly - . . brought forward, that various physio- der Kolk’a logists have had, for a long time opinion. ^ tendency to adopt the two jiropositions so clearly enunciated and so well discussed by Dr. Brown-Stiquard. The slow accumulation of well-observed pathological cases, careful microscopic investigation, and experi- mental researches (which although often contra- dictoiy, yet on the whole tended in the same direction) have paved the way for the general iicceptance of these conclusions, ^'iz., that sensi- tive impressions do not piiss along the posterior colunms, but that the grey matter is the main channel for their transmission to the encephalon. It would be foreign to my purpose to enter into158 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY any critical discussion of the views of those who at the present time dissent from these proposi- tions, but I conceive that it is right to do so with regard to one author, because his opinions come before the British public with much pres- tige, and because not only the justly great repu- tation of the author as a microscopical anatomist, but also the fact of his work having been selected (and very rightly so) for publication, by the Council of the New Sydenham Society, give in the eyes of many readers very great, perhaps undue, weight and authority to his opinions. “ In my opinion," says Professor Schroeder van der Kolk, “ the grey matter in the spinal cord serves solely for motion, the posterior rather for reflex action, and the coordination of movement, while sensation is transmitted upwards exclusive- ly tlu’ough the posterior and lateral medullary columns. That such is the case, I inferred espe- cially from the phenomena produced by strych- nine in a dog; in slighter attacks the hind feet acted first, and subsequently continued more rigid, the animal standing upon them, with the body in- clined obliquely forward. Not only during these convulsions, but even when the animal lay moreAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 159 than once upon the ground, with its feet stretch- c*d out in tetanic rigidity, it had not lost con- sciousness, of which my audience were witnesses with me; thus when a white cloth was accident- ally drawn from one side of the apartment to the other, the dog followed it with his eyes and head, while it appeared from all that occurred that he did not experience the least pain. We also know that after excessive doses of strj'chnia, the pa- tients, without feeling anything, are suddenly seized with abnormal movements and convulsions. After the death of the dog, 1 examined the spinal cord and brain, chielly with a view to discover any congestion which might have existed in the several parts. In the brain, I met no unusu{d de- gree of congestion ; but I was particularly struck with a remarkable condition of the gi*cy matter of the lumbar bulb ; it presented, in fact, nume- rous small effusions of blood, while in the medid- lanj portion [?] nothing abnormal was found. In another dog, killed under the influence of strych- nine, I found in the grey matter of the lumbar portion, aneurismal dilatation of the capillary ves- sels, which were, in consequence, on the verge of bursting. Perhaps similar effusions had taken place in this instance, but that in the sections I pre-160 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY pared I had not met with them. In both cases, however, the two horns of grey matter were most beautifully injected with blood, as -was evident after the sections were dried and placed under Canada balsam. Hence it would appear that, after administration of stiychnine, great conges- tion and ii’ritation take place in the grey matter, which, in the situations where they are most ful- ly developed, as in the loins, may pass into effu- sion or dilatation of the blood-vessels; and still all this occurs without any sensations—without any pain. Were the gi’ey matter in the spinal cord sensitive, or did the sensitive nerves penetrate into the grey matter, such congestion or irrita- tion, as excites in a sensitive nerve itself the most intense pain, could not be conceived to exist without occasioning some sensation. Hence it follows also that reflex movements cause no pain nor sensation in the spinal cord, so that, by this observation, the direct ascent of the sensitive nerves in the spinal cord—of which I possess the most satisfactory preparations — is physiologically (or pathologically, if we will) confirmed.” Anyone who carefuUy peruses the foregoing passage will perceive in itself, without referenceAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 161 to other contradictor)' portions of the book, the insufficiency of Professor Schroeder van der Kolk’s argument as regards the physiological properties of the spinal marrow. In the main it comes to this: the grey matter is itself not sensitive, it is therefore inconceivable that it can conduct sensitive impressions; or again, a nerve which conveys sensitive impressions is itself very sensi- tive to pain ; the grey matter is not sensitive to pain, therefore it cannot convey sensitive impres- sions. There Is not the least ground for admit- ting such an inference. To lie sensitive to pain, and to be capable of conve)dng sensitive impres- sions, are distinct functions, not of necessity co-existing in the same parts of the nervous system. Because they co-exist in the nerves of the trunk and limbs, it does not follow the same should necessarily be the case in the grey matter ; it certainly cannot be granted as an assumption, indeed several considerations lead one to the very reverse conclusion. We know, for instance, that the optic ners’e, which undoubtedly conveys im- pressions received from light, is itself not sensitive when cut or punctured—or at least, if sensitive at all, very slightly so. I have myself known of a case in which the optic ner\'e was, by a curi-I 62 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY ous accident, punctured; there was instant loss of vision, hut no pain referable to the optic nerve, nor was the sensation of a flash of light, said to follow the lesion of this nerve, perceived by the individual. Until, therefore. Professor Schroeder van der Kolk adduces some facts in supjDort of his assumption, his argument cannot be admitted to have any real value. With reference to the decussation of sensitive T. . impressions in the spinal marrow, the spinal and the determination with preci- marrow. Gxact seat of this de- cussation, we think the experiments of Dr. Brown-S6tpiard lead to conclusions, if possible more definite than any of his other researches. It has been known indeed for centuries, that the conductors of sensitive impressions, as well as those of the impulses of the will to muscles, de- cussate somewhere in the cerebro-spinal centres, but Sir Charles Bell seems to have been the first physiologist who undertook the attempt to deter- mine the real situation of the decussation of sen- sitive conductors; though he gives no experimental proofs whatever of his idea, which was that the crossing took place in the floor of the fourth ventricle, above and very close to the decussa-AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 163 tion of the anterior pyramids. Sir Charles Bell was so fond of making systematic plans for him- self, that he seems to have been thus led to adopt, on very insufficient grounds, an idea which suifed his imaginar}^ scheme. He found good anatomi- cal reasons and pathological facts to support the belief that the voluntary motor fibres of the trunk and limbs make their decussation at the lower part of the medulla oblongata, and that the ante- rior p}Tamids are, for the most part, formed by these conductors after their decussation. He could not have given his assent to the view of Foville and Valentin, that there are in the me- dulla oblongata, two sets of motor columns—one the anterior pyramids, the other the olivary col- umns, the fibres of which last they conceived to decussate all along the pons Varolii. Sir Charles wished to balance the notion of the decussation of the motor fibres in the crossing of the anterior pyramids (for which idea he had good foundation), by the idea of a similar decuasation of the sen- sitive fibres at a somewhat corresponding point posteriorly (for which he had no foundation at all). ^lany physiologists, feeling dissatisfied with a baseless, purely speculative theoiy% made this important question of the precise place of164 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY decussation for sensitive impressions, the subject of careful experiment, and some of them came very near to making the discovery, whose accom- plishment was, however, reserv^ed for Dr. Brown- S^quard, and which is not only one of the most conclusive of his demonstrations, but is an addi- tion to science of great practical importance. Istly. The spinal cord of a mammal is laid bare at the level of the two or three last dorsal verte- brae, and a lateral half of this organ (including the posterior, the lateral, and the anterior col- umns, and all the grey matter on one side) is di- vided. (See diagrammatic figure, 3.) The animal is left at rest a little while, and then it is ascer- tained that sensibility seems to be much increased in the posterior limb on the side of the section, while it seems to be lost, or extremely diminished, in the posterior limb on the opposite side. There seems to be, therefore, hypermsthesia behind and on the same side as a transverse section of a complete lateral half of the spinal cord, while, on the contrary, there seems to be ancesthesia behind and on the opposite side to the section. With re- ference to motion it is the reverse; power of move- ment is lost on the side of the section, but per- sists on the uninjured side: see the diagrammaticAXD PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 165 view, in which, suppose the lesion marked number 3 to be made in the dorsal or lumbar region, and let ar represent the anterior or motor nerve root, continued on by a dotted line to its decussation in the anterior p}’ramid, while pr represents the posterior, or sensitive nerve root, also continued through its supposed decussation, by a dotted line. For the present let us disregard the in- crease of sensibility, a phenomenon which we shall subsequently consider, and we have the following results of a complete section of one half of the spinal cord in the dorsal or lumbar region. per lumbar region. The arrows indicate the direction of the nervous action in the motor and sensitive conductors.—The diagram is copied from Dr. Brown-S^uard’s work.1G6 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY On the same side as the injury. Power of movement is lost; sensibility con- tinues. On the opposite side to the injury. Power of movement con- tinues; sensibility is lost. 2ndly. If, after having made, first a section of a lateral half of the spinal cord in the dorsal region on the right side, and after having ascer- tained that the right posterior limb is quite sen- sitive, the left lateral half of the spinal cord is divided in the cervical region, then the right pos- terior limb loses its sensibility. This experiment shows that the sensitive impressions coming along pr (after the lesion at 3), had first crossed to the other side of the spinal cord, along which they were transmitted, until interrupted by the second section, not represented in the diagram. 3rdly. The spinal cord is laid bare in the whole lumbar region, and a careful division of the entire extent of the part of the organ, giving origin to the nerves of the posterior limbs, is made directly along the middle line, so as to separate the two lateral halves of the organ one from the other. If this experiment could be executed perfectly, nothing would be divided in the cord except the commissures which unite the right and left sides,AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 167 and all the longitudinal elements of this centre would be left uninjured; but it is impossible not to cut more or less on either side. However, when the operation luis succeeded, i.e., when the two lateral halves have been very little in- jured, a striking result is obtiiined: voluntary movements still exist in the hind limbs, but sen- sibility is entirely lost in them. The animal has the use of his two hind limbs; he moves about pretty freely. The loss of sensibility, therefore, must depend on the division of the commiasures of the spinal cord, or in other words, on the elements of this organ which cross each other in the median line, or rather, in the median plane. If, on comparing the results of these three experiments, and if, after considering the many great difficulties already spoken of, which attend all such experiments, the reader admits (as 1 myself assuredly do) that the results may be accepted, then the inferences from them are clear and undeniable ; so that it is unnecessary here to point out how completely the third experiment disproves the notion of some German physiolo- gists, that the grey matter has the power of transmitting impressions in every direction. The Fourth Lecture commences by the expres- 12IG8 CRITICAL ESSAY OxV THE PHYSIOLOGY Conductors of sioii of the author’s hope that he various sen- sllOW that the sitive im- pressions. various sensitive impressions of touch, of of temperature, of muscular contrac- tion, etc. are transmitted by conductors which are quite distinct from one another—and so much so, tliat the conductors of painful impressions, for instance, are no more able to convey other kinds of impressions than to transmit the impulses of the will to muscles. It is to be regretted that Dr. Drown-Sequard has not, in these lectures, given more fully all his reasons for adopting this view. The kinds of sensitive impressions which he Ijelieves to be furnished with distinct and separate conducting fibres, are the sensations of touch, tickling, pain, heat, cold, and the peculiar sensation which accompanies muscular contrac- tion.* It is obvious that in seeking to interrogate nature uj>on points so delicate and refined as these, experimentation upon the lower animals can give no satisfactory answer; pathological cases scrutinized with tnithfulness and care, can alone yield accurate information upon these topics. Hence it is that Dr. Brown-Sequard, with an ear- nest desire to obtain light from every source, with * Compare “ Theory of Nervous Action,” p. 217,AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 169 a ^’iew to the elucidation of these important prob- lems, appeals to the many medical men who may peruse his book, and who have yearly oppor- tunities of seeing numl)ers of patients whose cases may throw important and decisive light upon the questions discussed in his pages. Those persons whose interest in science and love of mankind dispose them to respond to this ap- peal, and not to allow to pass unrecorded such cases as may be the means of tending to settle what Is yet undecided in these questions, may add a thousand fold to the interest and value of such cases as they may descrilxj, by adopting one simple means of estimating, with precision, the comparative capability po.ssessed by diHerent parts, of aj)preciatiug the sensations of tickling, j)rickiiig, touch, heat, etc. In the normal state, different j)ortions of the surface are susceptible of these seimtious in very varying degrees. The tickling sen.sation, i>ro- duced l)y light brushing of the surface with a camel’s hair pencil, is more felt around the mouth than over the nose; along the front of the fore- arm, than in the palm, or along the fingers. The feeling of a light shock or impulse, like the pulsa- tion of an artery, is much more distinctly per- is*170 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY ceived by the tips of the fingers than by the knuckle, the lips, or the tip of the tongue. Thus, if a thin tube of vulcanised indian-rubber be quite filled with water and tied at lioth ends, an im- pulse, produced by letting a little hammer fall on one end, is felt at the other by the finger when the same cannot be appreciated by the lips, tongue, and other parts; if, on the contrary, the whole hand be held under water, and a gentle current be made to pass from a pipe tlmough the water, the striking of the current on the hand is felt at a greater distance from the pipe by the back of the hand than by the palm. If ether or spirit be applied to the surface, and a draught of air made to play upon the parts, the cold produced will be felt veiy differently by different parts of the body; if a needle or pin be made to pass through a small disk of cork, so that a very little of the point projects, the pricking with this small point will be more delicately appreciated in some parts than in others ; and if the front of the fore- arm be irritated by the application of a sinapism for a few minutes, we can easily satisfy ourselves by comjiarison with the other forearm, that, so far as regards pricking, the sinapism has produced lyqieraesthesia.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 171 These ob\’ious facts place within our reach means, at once ready and tolerably precise, for making comparisons between s)*mmetrical and other parts of the surface; but for measuring the degree of tactile sensibility, perhaps the best metJiod of all is that indicated by Dr. Brown-S^quard in his Experimental Researches. The curious facts discovered by E. H. AVeber, respecting tactile sensibility, are well known, lie found that if the blunted points of a pair of compasses are applied simultaneously on the skin, there is, according to circumstances, either the sensation of one or of two points. When tlie points are both inside of certain boundaries, they ai*e felt as one only; when they are outside of these boundaries, both are felt. These boundaries vaiy exceedingly in ditl’ereut parts of the skin ; but for a given part the differ- ences between various individuals are not con- siderable. The compiis.ses may Ixi made use of for measuring the degree of tactile sensibility in morbid states. In a case of considerable anies- thesia of the lower limbs, the patient only felt a single impression on one leg, although the points of the compass were ten, fifteen, or even twenty centimetres apart; whilst on the other leg he could172 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY distinguisli them at a distance of twelve centi- metres. The nonnal limit for that limb is gener- ally from three to five centimetres. In another case, where anaesthesia was slighter, the limit of the discriminating power was at from nine to six- teen centimetres. In two other cases, in which the diminution of sensibility had not been dis- covered by other means of diagnosis, the compass indicated a very slight and beginning anaesthesia —the limit being at from six to seven cen- timetres. Tlicse facts demonstrate that, by the help of a pair of compasses, a physician can with tolerable precision determine: 1st, whether there may be slight anaesthesia or not; 2nd, what is the de- gree of anaesthesia 3rd, what changes occur from day to day in the amount of anaesthesia as regards tactile sensibility. The same is true for cases of hyperaesthesia. In a case of paraplegia of motion, the patient felt the two points of the compasses on his feet, even at the distance of five millimetres, whilst a healthy person feels the two points only when they are at a greater distance than twenty-five millimetres. For success in such experiments, the two points should be blunted and applied simultaneously.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 173 To how great a degree this tactile sensibility is capable of improvement by education, is known to everyone who has visited institutions for the reception of Idind persons; yet, in making com- parative experiments on different indi\dduals, or even different parts of the same j>erson, it should not be forgotten how much its delicacy may depend upon the condition of the skin itself, (j[uite independently of the ner\ ous system. I have dwelt at some length on this suliject, because I fancy that a close investigation of Ciises at tlic bedside, with subsequent patholo- gical scrutiny, can alone set at rest this question. Although 1 admit that Dr. Brown-St^quard deals with it, as with all the topics treated of in his Lectures, with great subtlety, acuteness, and ability, yet I cannot accept as proved, his idea that the nerve fibres employed in the trans- missions of sensitive impressions of touch, tick- UiKj, pain, etc. arc as distinct one from the other jis they all are from the nerve fibres em- ployed in the transmission of the orders of tlie will to the muscles. Just as we must re<|uire of phrenologists to determine psychologically what are, or what are not, the fundamental faculties of the mind, before, as physiologists, we can venture174 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY to ilssign to each its local habitation; so, before we can assign different conductors to each variety of sensitive impression, must we determine what are the various sensitive impressions which are fundamentally distinct* from one another. We may incline to admit the general truth of Dr. Brown-S6quard’s view with reference, for in- stance, to the appreciation of weight through mus- cular action, as distinct from the feeling of heat, while we regard touch, tickling, ordinary pain, i\a mere phases of one more general sensation, de- pending perhaps, in their varieties, upon the tex- ture of the skin, the hair, etc. It Is certain, however, that the analysis of cases given by Dr. Brown-S(iquard lends considerable weight to his idea: Thus, Case 24 is reported as having lost the feeling of pinching, pricking, and muscular sensi- bility; sensibility to cold and tickling remaining. Case 23.—Loss of the feeling of tickling or contact; persistence of the feeling of pain. Case 13.—Loss of tactile sensibility ; increased sensibility to painful impressions. Dr. Budd’s case (Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions), in which contact was felt while heat was not perceived.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL COED. 175 Ollivier’s case,—Loss of feeling of pain on pinching; diminished sensibility to cold, heat, and touch. It has been ingeniously suggested that the ap- preciation of harmonic sounds by the auditory^ nerv^e, the peculiar and agreeable thrill, for in- stance, produced -by notes which are the octaves of each other, bears the same relation to ordinary hearing, that tickling does to oixlinaiy tactile sen- sibility. The notion of Dr. Brovm-Sdquard seems to lead to the supposition that distinct nerve fibres may exist for each variety of auditor}’ sen- sation; and analog}’ might lead to the supposition that the optic nerve contained distinct conductors for evei-y colour of the spectrum, so that colour- blindness and aljsence of “ear” would find their explanation in deficiency or aljsence of the con- ductoi-s of these sensitive impressions. These speculations, however, touch on subjects of so delicate a nature, that we fetir they are likely to remain for ever merely h}-pothetical. Although, therefore, it appears to me that Dr. Browu-S<5quard’s view wants further evidence for its complete substantiation, I wish to state what exactly are his notions on this subject. It seems to him that the conductors of the various17G CRITICAL KSSAY OX THE THYSIOLOGY sensitive impressions pass along distinct fibres, which decussate in the spinal cord ; that none of tliem go up to the brain along the posterior columns. It remains, in his opinion, to be known where the decussation takes place for the nerve fibres conveying different sensitive impres- sions ; ])ut he conceives that for all sorts of sensi- tive conductors save one, there is evidence that their place of decussation is in the immediate neighbourhood of the entrance of the posterior roots into the spinal cord; the conductor's of the kind of sensitive impressions which originate in mu.scles when they contract—impressions which, on being felt, guide our movements— perhaps form an exception, and decussate vei'}’^ high in the spinal cord : in support of which. Dr. Brown-S6quard cites the fact that in most of the cases of alteration of a lateral half of the spinal cord which he has reported, the voluntary move- ments are said to have been unimpeded on the opposite side of the body, which would not have been the case if the ” (juidimj sensation" had not been felt. In one of these cases, however (Case 37), the patient had lost that peculiar muscular sensibility which guides voluntary movement, as she could not hold her child in her arm when sheA.VI> FATHOI/K;y OF THE 8W.VAL OOBO. I 77 <liM not Irx^k at that ann. Kut aa the j/r#x;ute seat of alU;ratiou in thi« eaae waa luA kmwn, no ixjai- tive fXjneluHion can Ui drawn from it: it woul/1 only wjem to ahow that the fihrea of muw;ular aenw; do not decuaaate, along with ihimi: for mus- cular motion, in the dwnwaation of the anterior jiyramhla. li<?forc {»aaaing tfu to the consideration of the very imp^>rtant diacoverie#! of mo<iem pby- Miologiata, rxmceming vaao-mot/ir nerve fibres, we may olwerve that even though it l>c assumed by some that there are distinct conduct/>r» for various sensitive impressions, yet it ap|x;ars cer- tain that such conductf^rs do not run in distin<^ bundles, along definite tracts of the s|>inal cord, any more than do the nerve filn'es seem to run in grou[)8 or distinct bundles, from the surface su{>- plu^l by them, to the brain. Were it so, and a^l- rnitting that sensitive impressions are mainly pro- pagated along the grey matUjr, it would follow tluit certain injuries done to the grey matter, but not dividing it completely, would be follower! liy loss of some jjarticular variety of sensation, or, in the other instance, by anaesthesia in particular patches of the surface from which the divide^! bundles of ner\e fibres would have come. But178 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY this is not what occurs. After lesion of the spinal cord, engaging more or less of the grey matter, sensibility is not completely destroyed in certain places, remaining perfect in other parts : but sensibility is diminished, and apparently equally diminished, in all parts posterior to the lesion ; and this diminution of sensibility continues to be- come more marked, the more the grey matter is divided—until, when the anterior columns alone remain, anaesthesia is established. Thus, while one is certainly induced to lielieve that the grey matter of the cord conducts sensitive impressions fis a whole—and not, as a nerve, by separate con- ductors coming from particular points—it is evident that the conductors in the spinal cord are not so arranged, as to follow distinct channels, running in bundles, in continuation of the nerve roots, nor does it seem probable that such is tme for the conductors of pain, touch, tickling, etc. Indeed this, among other things, would incline one much more to regard the spinal cord as a nerve tubule on a very large scale, than as a large nerve composed of many independent conductors, as has been the view of many. Looked upon as a gigantic nerve tubule, the spinal cord may be considered as having, in its investing membrane.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 179 a structure analogous to the tubular membrane of a nen^e fibre; and in the white structure of the columns, anterior, lateral, and posterior, the structure represented by the white substance of Schwann; while the grey medullary sulistance takes the place of the axis cylinder. Of course this comparison merely seiwes to point out an ideal similitude; nevertheless, as it seems probable that the axis cylinder, encased and insulated as it is by the surroundiug tunics, can be the means of conveying sensations produced by divers means of irritation, so it seems that there is some reason to suppose that the grey matter conveys all sorts of impressions, and even also the orders of the will to muscles. If we divide transversely, in the dorsal region, the whole posterior half of the grey matter and a part of the lateral columns, besides the posterior columns, we find that the voluntary movements are much diminished in the abdominal limbs. If the division l)e carried further, so that the whole of the central grey matter be divided, the animal can hardly move its abdominal limbs, and if we add to this section that of the anterior horns of gi’ey matter, the loss of movement seems to l^e- come complete, although the anterior columns180 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY continue undivided. Hence it seems that, not only is the grey matter the conductor of sensitive impressions, but that also the commands of the will to the muscles in a great degree pass along , it: nay more—that in making a gradual division of the grey matter, power of voluntary movement is, by degrees, diminished more and more, until it is entirely lost in the abdominal limbs, while yet the anterior columns remain undivided. In the four succeeding lectures. Dr. Brown- Sequard enters upon an analysis of pathological cases, bearing upon the views which he has elu- cidated by experimental research in the pre- ceding discourses. I have already said that it is not my intention to enter upon the consider- ation of the pathological portion of Dr. Brown- S^quard’s work: I shall therefore content myself with saying upon this subject, that although, after a careful perusal of these chapters, I can- not in aU respects coincide Avith the deductions drawn by the accomplished author from the cases he details, yet that it is ob\dous throughout, that he never seeks to coerce phenomena and symp- toms into harmony with any definite scheme of his own creation; that his only object seems to be the discovery of -truth—not the framing of a systematic but baseless fabric.AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD, 181 I pass then directly to the latter chapters, Yaso-motor which the functions and relations nervous of the vaso-motor portion of the system. ' . n n nervous system are considered; or, in other words, leaving behind what relates to voluntary movements and sensibility, I come to the consideration of the influence of the nervous system on nutrition, animal heat, secre- tion, etc.; and, first, of the physiological and mor- bid actions due to the great sympathetic nerve. There is, perhaps, no department of physiology in which, within a recent period, two or three discoveries have afibrded so comprehensive an elucidation of a large number of comparatively isolated facts, as in that connected with the vaso- motor nervous system. It was probably for the want of these discoveries that the observations of the thoughtful Whytt and of the profound Pro- chaska were so long neglected, and apparently forgotten; or, at aU events, that their real im- portance was by no means understood. The expression of Prochaska with reference to the capability of sensorial being reflected into motor impressions, sufficiently proves that the mind of this great physiologist had grasped the idea, which Le Gallois and Mayo, Marshall Hall and182 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY Muller, (lid so much to develop subsequently. But even the facts accumulated by the latter ob- servers hung together but loosely, until their con- nexion and value were indicated by the more recent researches of Claude Bernard, Brown- S^cpiard, and others. Professor Claude Bernard published the results of his first researches on the effects of division of the cervical sympathetic nerve, in 1851 and the l)eginning of 1852, The great fact announced in these publications was, that this section was con- stantly followed by a considerable affiux of blood to the parts of the head supplied by the sympa- thetic. Along with the greater afflux of blood and accompanying dilatation of the blood-vessels, the temperature becomes elevated, hypermsthesia is noticed, and the vital properties of the parts generally become increased. Dr. Brown-Sdquard, with Dr. Tholozan, had before this performed an experiment which, taken in connexion with the preceding, prepared the way for what was to be expected from gal- vanization of the cervical sympathetic, after sec- tion of it had first given rise to the above phenomena. The experiment alluded to is one of prime and fundamental importance, and wasAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 183 undertaken with the intention of trying whether Dr. W. F. Edwards was right in his assertion, that if the temperature of one part of the body be raised or lowered, a corresponding rise or fall takes place, more or less, in all other parts of the body, according to circumstances. This assertion is found quite true in one sense; yet in exactness to l)ear an interpretation quite different from that put upon it by Edwards. Drs. Brown-S(5quard and Tholozau found that if one hand was plunged in water at the tempera- ture of its freezing point, a ver}’ strong lowering action was exercised on the temperature of the other hand ; while a thermometer placed in the mouth indicated but slight diminution of heat. Thus, in one case, the hand kept in the atmos- phere lost, in seven minutes, 22'* Fahrenheit, while the temperature of the mouth was not diminished more than the fifth of a degree. One therefore cannot hesitate to admit that this cool- ing of the hand in the atmosphere was produced by a contraction of the blood-vessels, due to an action on the nervous system, and not to general loss of temperature affecting the blood of the sys- tem generally. Besides, it was obser\^ed that the greater the pain produced in the arm immersed in IS184 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY the cold water, the more the temperature was di- minislied in the hand left in the air. But other proofs are not wanting to show that the action of the nervous system is, in this way, sufficient to diminish the calibre of the blood-vessels. I liave myself performed the following modifica- tion of the foregoing experiment. A bat is placed upon a small piece of board, and fastened with both wings fully expanded, so that one, say the right, can be readily inspected with a micro- scope. As the wel) of the bat’s wing is generally too much darkened witli pigment to admit of very precise observation of the blood-vessels, it is necessary to peel off some of the epidermis, whicli is easily done by seizing a portion of it with a pair of forceps over one of the metacai-pal rihs of the wing and so tearing gently off a small por- tion. In the portion thus denuded, an artery and accompanying vein are to be sought, and the for- mer accurately measured with an eye-piece micro- meter. If then a small muslin bag of snow, or pounded ice and salt, be applied to the other wing, in a short time we may observe the artery under observation diminishing very remarkably in calibre—and indeed, under favouralde circumstan- ces, becoming almost entirely closed, as I haveAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 185 seen in a bat which had been flying about in a small room, the upper part of wliich was very warm in consequence of the burning of gas in it; the animal was consequently warm, and its ciicu- lation veiy active at the moment of the com- mencement of the experiment. On the announcement, therefore, of Bernard's discover}^ of the result of section of the s}*mpathe- tic, Brown-St*quard was prepared to expect that the irritation of the divided symj)athetic by galvan- ism would probably be followed by constriction of the blood-vessels and the ver}' reverse phenomena of those observed to follow the section; and he, in America, and a couple of months later, Ber- nard in Paris, announced this imporhint discover)’ to the scientific world, while Dr. Augustus Waller, though ignorant of the publications of cither of the former experimenters, communi- cated the same discover)’ to the “ Acadt^mie des Sciences.” There is no doubt that the knowledge of the effects of paralysis and of imtation of the sympa- thetic nerve thus obtained, opened a new and most important field for physiological investiga- tion ; indeed it is one in which many labourers have already toiled with success. The immediate 13*18G CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY connexions and relations of the sympathetic to the cerebro-spinal axis had, it is true, been already toleraldy well investigated by anatomists; but the presiding influence exercised over the heart, blood-vessels, and indeed, over involuntary mus- cular fibre generally, by the nervous system, had not been studied with success by physiologists ; tlie vast importance of the s}Tnpathetic system in its union with the cerebro-spinal axis had not been fully recognized, nor had any real attempt been made to explain many of the principal phe- nomena connected with nutrition, secretion, ani- \ mal heat, etc., which are now regarded as being under the control of the vaso-motor system of nerves. It is not possible to do more than allude to some of the leading hypothe.ses which have of late been put forward, with reference to the influence of the entii’e nervous system upon blood-vessels, or (as I have already stated in more general terms) upon involuntary muscular fibre, whether in the heart, blood-ves- .sels, intestines, or elsewhere. One of the hypotheses in question appears to us as novel and startling, as it does speculative and untenable, and were it not that it is associated with the name of one of the most eminent experi-AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 187 meutal physiologists in Europe, it would hardly call for even a passing mention. Professor Ber- nard has imagined, that the dilatation of the blood-vessels in many of the circumstiinces influ- encing secretion, etc., is an active phenomenon ; he fancies, in fact, that the capillaries have two properties—contraction and dilatation; and, if we understiind him aright, he conceives the latter to l>e no less an active phenomenon than the fonner, each being put into play by a distinct set of neiwes. Un the other hand, to stiy that the blootl- vessels dilate in consequence of a greater attrac- tion for arterial blood developed in the tissues of the part, conveys to our mind no distinct mean- ing, but-is merely putting into other, and less simple, temis the expression of what takes place when the small arteries are olisen’ed to become dilated. The view advocated by Pfliiger {Ueber da^n llemmumjs Nerren-snstem), must be admit- ted as exceedingly ingenious, and as giving a ver)' adroit explanation of many of the pheno- mena in question; but we cannot but agree with i\Ir. Joseph Lister, that the supposition that there is a certain set of nerve-fibres, the so-called inhibitory system of nerves [Hemmumjs Nei'ven- system), whose sole function is to arrest, or keep188 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY a check upon action, seems a very startling inno- vation in physiology, and one which we must be very cautious about accepting, so long as the same phenomena may be accounted for by the supposition of a more simple, comprehensive, and uniform action in those nerve-fibres, which seem to preside over the movements of involuntary muscles. Indeed, we cannot help looking for- ward to a further development of the notions shadowed forth by Lister—that the peripheral expansions (ganglia and nuclei, etc.) of the ner- vous system are in all cases essential to these contractions of vessels, etc., and while capable of independent action, are nevertheless susceptible of being stimulated^ or checked by the governing influence of the central nervous system; the so- called inhibitory influence being due to the more or less energetic operation of the same nerve- fibres, and bearing a remote analogy with that almost, if not entirely, passive condition of the nervous system, which gives rise to muscular tonicity.* * The view liere put forward is, I conceive, that now very gen- erally accepted by physiologists. An able reviewer of Vulpiau’s lately published work on the vaso-motor apparatus thus epito- mizes his observations on the subject: “ As was to be expected, various attempts have been made toAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD, 189 But to pass from the realms of hypothesis, it appears tolerably ceitain that the s}’mpathetic ucrve is, first, essentmlly though not exclusively, explain the mechanism of the vaso-dilator nerves. These are examined by Vulpian, and are shown to be, for the most part quite inadequate. “ He rejects the theory of active dilatation of the vessels as in- con-sistent with our knowledge of the structure of their walls : he shows that the arterial distension cannot be due to obstruction caused by contraction of the veins, because these vessels are also dilated, and the quantity of the blood and the rapidity of its flow in them, as well as in the arteries, are increased. He con- siders, at some length, the view of Dr. Browu-S»iquard, who sup- poses that the irritation of the nerves acta, not on the vessels, but on the tissues, and increases their attraction for the blood, whicli accumulates in them in greater quantity, being drawn on hy A vis d fronte. lie formerly looked on this theory as the most plausible, and thought that it derived strong support from his own experiments on the vascular area of the embryo, and from those of Weber on the vessels of amputated limbs; but now he thinks that the results of these ex])erimeut8 may be otherwise explained, and he urges that if the increased vascularity was caused by an attraction between the blood and the tissues, the pressure in the veins should diminish, whereas it is always in- creased during irritation of the nerves. He also notices the very important fact that when at the same time a manifest action is exerted on the tissues and on the vessels by the irritation of the same nerve, these two actions can be separated one from the other. Thus, irritation of the corda tympani causes vascular dilatation in the submaxillar}’ gland and increased flow of saliva. Bernard notices that these two eflfects were not accurately coinci- dent in time, and Heidenhain has discoveied that in an animal poisoned with atropine, the dilatation of the vessels is the only consequence of the irritation, there being no increase in the flow of saliva.190 CEITICAL ESSAY OJST THE PHYSIOLOGY a motor nerve of blood-vessels; secondly, that it originates chiefly from the cerebro-spinal axis; thirdly, that its paralysis is characterised by a dilatation of blood-vessels and afflux of blood, “M. Vulpiau uow thiuks the phenomenon in question can be best explained by supposing that the dilator nei’ves exert an in- hibitory action on the constrictors. These latter are always in action, and the condition of mean contraction of the vessels thus kept up is called the vascular tonus. This is probably maintain- ed by the nervous centres acting through periphex’al ganglia, with which both constrictor and dilator fibres are in connexion. The dilators are not constantly in action, and their section is without effect; but when they are irritated they exert an inhibi- tory action on the ganglia (just as the vagus fibres do on the intracardiac ganglia), destroying the vascular totixts, and the ves- sels dilate under the pressure of the blood. So that although the process is active in the nerves, it is jxassive in the vessels. That the dilation caused by irritation of the dilators is greater than that following section of the constrictors, is no objection to this theory, for it is difficult to cut all the constrictor fibres of a part which often run in various chamiels, and by the section the peripheral ganglia are untouched, and may be effective in keej> ing up some contraction; but when the dilators are called into action, they make inactive all the constricU'rs, and exert their paralysing influence on the ganglia at the terminations of the nerves. “ This view, or one like it, is, we believe, that uow generally held by physiologists to explain the vaso-dilatory action of cer- tain nerves. It was developed most ably, some years ago, by Professor Rutherford, who called special attention to the fact that the inhibitory nerves ‘ appeared to end in vaso-motor nerve- cells whose evolutions of energy they are capable of diminishing. M. Vulpian does not allude to Professor Rutherford’s researche.s on this subject.”AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 191 aud by the results of this afflux; and fourthly, that its excitation, whether direct or reflex, is iiharacterised by a contraction of the blood-ves- sels, and the results of this contraction. The origin of the cervical sympathetic has been indi- cated by Augustus Waller and Budge, as taking place between the sixth cervical and fourth dor- sal vertelirae, and it is probable that it has an origin even more extended. As regards the other fibres of the spnpathetic. Dr. Brown- S6quard believes, that those going to the blood- vessels of the various parts of the head, come out mainly from the spinal cord by the roots of the last cervical, and first and second dorsal neives. Their real place of origin he thinks to be paidly the spinal cord, and partly the higher portions of the encephalon, but chiefiy the medulla ob- longata and the neighbouring parts of the ence- phalon. In the other parts of the body, the ueives of the blood-vessels seem to come chiefiy from the cerebro-spinal centre as well as the cervical sympathetic. On division of a lateral half of the spinal cord in the dorsal region, we find in the lower limb on the same side, most of the eftects of a section of the sympathetic in the neck, viz.: dilatation of the1 92 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY blood-vessels, increase of heat and sensibility, and of the general vital properties of the parts. Hence it seems to follow that the vaso-motor nerve-fibres follow, in the spinal cord, a course similar to, if not identical with, the fibres for the propagation of commands of the wdl to the mus- cles; so that, referring again to our diagram, a fact, we find some means of accounting for the hypermsthesia on the side of the lesion; for the dilatation of the blood-vessels is, as we know, accompanied by an increase in the vital properties of the part; hence we find increase of heat and increase of sensibility. Whether this explana- tion is one altogether satisfactory I shall consider afterwards. As the dilatation of the blood-vessels, result- ing from paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves. section of the spinal cord in the dorsal region, sup- pose at 3, would be follow- ed, on the same side as the injury, by paralysis of mo- tion and the symptoms of paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, f.c., dilatation of the blood-vessels, etc. In thisAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 193 has been experimentally shown in the head of the ral)bit, after section of the cendcal sympa- thetic, and in the lower limb on the same side, after section of a lateral half of the spinal cord, so the constriction or spasm of these vessels has been made obvdous as the result of galvanic and other stimulation. The discovery of Dr. Brown-S^quard as to the contraction of the ves- sels of the ear on galvanization of the cervdcal sympathetic after section, was a prime step in this direction. We regard, likewise, the researches of Mr. Joseph luster,* “ On the parts of the nervous system regulating the contractions of the arteries,” as of gi*eat value, and as having done much to explain the discrepancies upon this sub- ject found between the exj>eriments of Schilf, Wharton Jones, Waller, and others. The con- striction, says Lister, of the arteries of the frog’s webs, on ir-ritiition of the cord, may 1r3 well de- monstrated in the following simple manner. The head of the frog l)eing depressed, so as to stretch the ligament Iwtween the occiput and the first vertebra, a sharp knife is carried across the spinal canal, immediately behind the head, so as * Philosophical Transactions, Part ii. 1858; also On the Early Stuyes of Inflammation, by the same author, iu the same volume.194 CIUTICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY to divide the cord from the brain; the toes may now be tied out, and any observation made upon the web, without the inconvenience generally produced by voluntary stmggles on the part of the animal, while at the same time the use of chloroform is avoided, which is desirable, on account of the irritating effect of its vapour on the we]), and the constant care required for its administration. If the webs be examined, im- mediately after the operation, they will be found exsanguine from the extreme constriction of the arteries; but in a few minutes this state will give place to dilatation, with free flow of blood. If now a hue needle, curved at the end, be intro- duced through the wound in the spinal canal, so that its point may penetrate a short distance into the cord, while the eye of the observer is kept over the microscope, the arteries will be seen to become constricted to absolute closure, and to dilate again after withdrawal of the needle. The experiment may be repeated as often as may be desired, until the cord becomes disorganized. Phliger, in operating upon the large edible frog, succeeded in applying the galvanic stimulus to the anterior roots of the sciatic nerve within the spinal canal, with the eflect of producing com-AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 195 plete constriction of the arteries of the webs. Division of the same roots, on the other hand, wa.s followed by full dilatation of the vessels. From this experiment it appears that the vaso- motor nerve-fibres pass along with the motor nerve-roots. For a considerable time past physiologists have been familiar with the influence of reflex actions on .secretion and nutrition. Since the publica- tion of Muller’s Mamuil of Physiology, Stilling’s Treatise on Spinal Irritation, and Henl(^’s various works, no treatise on physiology, or general patholog}', has appeared which has not fully re- cognised the reflex phenomena of nutrition and secretion, as something well known. This makes it the more surprising, that, shortly l>efore his death. Dr. Marshall Hall announced, as a new discovery, the suppo.sed existence of an excito- secretorj' and secretory nerv'e system. Dr. Campbell, of Georgia, U. S., claimed priority of this discovery, which Marshall Hall in a great measure conceded to him : but the truth is that neither one nor the other adduced one single fact to .show the existence of any such distinct .system of uervTs. Admitting the vast importance of the influence exercised over secretion and nutrition19G CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY by the vaso-motor nervous system, admitting that many phenomena hitherto inexplicable, find, in the effects produced upon the blood-vessels by paralysis and excitation, whether direct or reflex, of this system, a complete explanation ; still the question comes, can we explain all the pheno- mena, normal and pathological, showing the direct or reflex influence of the nervous system on nutrition and secretion by deduction from the jibove truths 'I Are they all due to the effects of paralysis or excitation of the sympathetic nerve on blood-vessels % We entirely concur with the answer given to this question by Dr. Brown- S(iquard, that facts discovered by Ludwig, by Czermak, and especially by Claude Bernard, seem to have solved the question in the most positive manner. It seems absolutely certain that there is some agency of the nervous system, which is not simply an influence on the constricting muscular fibres of blood vessels, in the normal, or patho- logical, phenomena of secretion and nutrition. Professor Bernard has pointed out how that, in- stead of contracting, the blood-vessels of the salivary glands become enlarged, when certain nerves are excited. To explain this and other apparently contradictoiy facts, we must seekAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 197 for some theory embracing a wider generaliza- tion than any hitherto propounded. As I have already said, the notion of Dr. Brown-S^quard that this enlargement in the blood-vessels must be due to a greater attraction of the arterial l)lood by the tissue of the gland, seems to me a mere change of terms, explaining nothing. In- deed it leaves physiology as regards these pheno- mena in very much the same position as did Prochaska, whose observ'ations on “ The action of nerves on ves.sels and their fluids ” are both in- teresting and instructive. “ Another function of the nerves,” says this most acute observer, “ consists in a certain power over the blood-vessels, and specially the capil- laries, in virtue of which, when the nerves are stimulated (?) they excite, in that part in which they are distributed, a much more copious accu- mulation of blood than would have taken place in the normal condition of the circulation. Stohl termed it the tide of the microcosmic sea, or the (*bl) and flow of the blood—one cause of it is a stimulus of the nerves. Innumerable phenomena of daily occurrence show this. Thus a stimulus to the nerves is the cause why the cheeks, ears, and nose becomes intensely red and a sense of198 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY heat is felt, when exposed to a cold wind in winter. No one is ignorant how much the stimulus of sinapisms and blisters causes deriva- tion to the stimulated part; an acrid smoke, or fine powder, getting into the eyes excites a copious flow of tears, and the veasels of the con- junctiva, previously invisible, become distended with blood. The smoke of tobacco or any other acrid aroma, retained in the mouth, excites a copious flow of saliva, etc. But the same thing happens when the nerves are excited not directhf but indire^thf through the brain. We know that the face is suffused with the blush of modesty ; grief causes a copious flow of tears, congestion of the vessels of the conjunctiva, and redness and swelling of the whole face. The sight of agree- able food provokes the flow of saliva; it is not unusual for some persons to vomit, or be purged, liy only seeing a medicine, etc. Does not the vis nervosa, increased by a stimulus, render the force of attraction of the fluids circulating through the vessels greater, so that by this means the fluids are attracted from every side to the centre of stimulation, as occurs, for example, wdien sealing ■wax is gently rubbed on a piece of cloth, and made electrical, and attracts sand and particles of various kinds 1 ”AXD PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 199 Modern physiology will hardly be content to answer this question in the aflBrmative; to me it would seem as unsatisfactoiy’ as the sup- position of active dilatation of the blood-vessels. Although to my mind the solution given to the question, how a reflex action may produce or stop a secretion, how it may produce an atrophy or an hypertrophy, an inflammation or some other change in nutrition, by Dr. Brown-Sequard, is in some respects not more satisfactorj’- than that ofiered by Prochaska, yet it must be admitted that he puts forward his view very forcibly. There are, he argues, two modes of action of the nerv'ous system in the production of the phenomena of nutrition and secretion. By one of these actions, the nervous system determines an increase in the attraction of bloo<l by the livdng tissues, and in this case the phenomena are accompanied by a dilatation of the blood-vessels; while the reverse exists when the nerv'ous system, in.stead of acting upon the of the tissues, acts upon the walls of the blood-vessels, and produces a constriction. In the first case, the quantity of blood passing through the part on which the nervous system has acted, is in- creased; while in the second case it is diminished. 14200 CRITICAL ESSAY OX THE PHYSIOLOGY In the first case the secretions are increased; in the second diminished. In the first case, nutri- tion is more active, and there is a tendency to hypertrophy and an augmentation of the vital properties of nerves and muscles; in the second case, nutrition is not active, there is a tendency to atrophy, and a diminution of the vital properties of nerves and muscles. Lastly, in the first case, there is an augmentation of temperature, while in the second there is diminution. There is there- fore the most complete difference between these two nervous influences. *■ Let us now, he continues, employ the know- ledge of these two modes of action of the nervous system, to explain what occurs in some cases of secretory or nutritive reflex phenomena. Suppose, for instance, a calculus in one of the ureters: it irritates the centripetal nerve-fibres of this canal; the irritation is transmitted to the spinal cord, which reflects it upon the muscular coat of the blood-vessels of the two kidneys, and produces a contraction, in consequence of which there is much less blood passing through these organs, so that the urinary secretion is stopped, or much diminished. Suppose a worm in the bowels irrita- ting their centripetal nerve-fibres: the irritationAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 201 is proj^agated to the spinal cord, which reflects it upon the roots of the cervdcal s}Tnpathetic nerv'c, by which it reaches the blood-vessels of the retina, produces their contraction, and as a con- sequence of this cause of diminution in the amount of blood, an amaurosis. If, instead of the reflex action of the blood-vessels, there is an action on the tissues, as in the case of the experi- ments of Czermak and of Profe&sor Bernard, the l)lood-ve.ssels dilate, and more blood passes through them. The cornea, for instance, is irritated : its centripetal nerve-fibres transmit the irritation to the pons Varolii, which reflects it upon the retina, the lachr}Tnal gland, the con- junctiva, etc.; more blood is attracted by all these parts, their blood-vessels dilate, and the conse- quences of a greater amount of blood become manifest—increase of tears, photophobia, etc. The two kinds of effects produced by the nervous system on nutrition and secretion, may co-cxist, or follow each other; and we have in- stances of such a combination or alternation in cases of neuralgia, of worms, etc. ^V^latsoever physical explanation may be adop- ted for the many interesting facts concerning the sympathy existing between remote parts of the u»202 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY liocly, it ^vill be admitted that the subject is one of amazing importance, and, considering its im- portance, it is surprising that so little has been done by physiologists and practitioners to develop its manifold relations, in health as well as in dis- ease. Although more than once regretting that his space does not allow him “ to enter in greater developments” on his subject, Dr. Brown-S^quard deals with it at considerable length, and in some respects treats it with great originality. In speaking of the morbid changes in the nutrition of the brain, of the spinal cord, and of the organs of sense, produced by an irritation of some centripetal nerve, he shows that insanity, epilepsy, chorea, catalepsy, extasis, hydrophobia, hysteric and other varieties of nervous complaints, may be the result of a simple, often slightly felt, irrita- tion of some centripetal nerve. He brings what we conceive to be very ingenious, and at the same time valid, arguments in support of this novel view—that it is occasionally by a reflex action of one part of the cerebro-spinal axis on another part of itself, through the nerves going to the blood-vessels, that irritation of one portion of the neiwous centre acts in modifying or altering the nutrition of another portion of itself. In thisA>0) PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 203 way he offers an explanation of the attacks of epilepsy and epileptiform seizures, resulting from organic lesion of the nerv^ous centres. The researches of Dr. Brown-S4quard concern- ing the etiology and nature of epilepsy, are known to all the world, while his production of artificial epUeptiform attacks in animals as the result of lesion of the spinal cord, and the very remarkable discovery that the offspring of animals thus rendered epileptic, frequently acquire, by hereditary descent, the same aftection, are facts no less interesting to the naturalist than to the physiologist. But this subject, which, with that of rotatory convulsions, is discussed in his two final lectures, it is not my intention to enter upon. 1 shall content myself with observing that they are lectures of great practical value, and show in every line the extraordinary importance of studying, in all their varied aspects and com- plex forms, the phenomena of reflex excitability. In reviewing the principal of such phenomena, I cannot but admit that the best physical expla- nation of them hitherto given, seems to be that through the action of the vaso-motor nerves on the blood-vessels of the nervous centres. Bonders, and his pupil. Van der Beke Callenfels, have204 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY shown the influence of these nerves directly on the vessels of the pia mater; and the experiments of Kussmaiil and Tenner, although coming from a different direction, are strongly confirmatory of Brown-Secpiard’s views, and seem to those able experimenters to justify them in asserting “ that epileptic convulsions can be brought about by contraction of the blood-vessels induced by the Viiso-motor nerves.” A great number of observers have of late added new facts to the physiology of the vaso-motor nervous system. But can we regard the characteristic phenomena of epilepsy, or the still more subtle forms of disease met with in insanity, vertigo, hallucinations, etc., as entii’cly explicable by any such physical changes 1 Must we not, at least, still recognise the humoral views of Todd, and such notions as have been put forward by the original and ingenious Dr. C. B. Eadcliffe, as having their element of truth as a “ vera causa ” in some cases '? When we see a large snake struck; across the tail with a rod, and instantly, in the twinkling of an eye, seized vdth a paralysis as complete as death, which yet, after a time, passes off again, can we attribute such a condition to the constriction of the blood-vessels of the cerebro-spinal axisI think not; be-AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD, 205 cause we know that among these animals, the cerebro-spinal system does not (even after the evacuation of the blood of the body) speedily cease to exercise certain functions, and perform movements; and, moreover, I have proved ex- perimentally, that even after decapitation, a blow across the tail stops for a while all the movements which, under ordinary circumstances, persist for a considerable time. The effect, therefore, cannot be attributed to disturbance through the blood- vessels ; it appears rather to be due to an altered molecular condition of the nervous centres, result- ing from the blow, and more or less persistent. That a shock conveyed to the central nervous system through its peripheral nerves, should, with the instantaneousness of a lightning flash, lock in insensibility and motionlessness the entire frame of the creature, cannot, to my satisfac- tion, be accounted for through the action of the vaso-motor trunks upon the blood-vessels, any more than the opposite class of phenomena de- tailed in the following case. “ Case 44. On rising in the morning, a lad fourteen years old was heard by his father mak- ing a great disturbance in his bed-room, who.206 CllITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY rushing in to know the cause, found Ids son in his sldrt, violently agitated, speaking incoherently, and breaking to pieces the furniture. Mr. caught the lad in his arms and threw him back on the bed, when he at once became composed, but did not seem conscious of the mischief he had done. He said that on getting out of bed he had felt something odd, but that he was very well, and thought that he might have had,a frightful dream, although he could not recollect it. I was im- mediately sent for, and the lad ordered to remain in bed until 1 had seen him. About five hours, after I found the lad lying in bed, reading some amusing book; his tongue clean, pulse regular, countenance calm and cheerful. He said he was quite well, and wished to get up, but that his father had ordered him to remain in bed until 1 had seen him. I was informed before I went up to his bed-room that the lad had never before been heard to complain of disturbed dreams, or walk in his sleep, or exhibited any epileptic symp- toms, and that his general health had been good, and all his functions regular. Finding the patient free from any apparent disease, and that he had eaten with good appetite and no disturbance his usual breakfast, I desired him to get up. WhenAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL COED. 207 sitting up in liis bed he drew on his stockings; but on putting his feet on the floor and standing up, liis countenance instantly changed, the jaw became \dolently convulsed, and he was about to rush forward when I seized and pushed him back on his bed. He was at once calm, but looked sur- prised, and asked what was the matter vdth him. He assured me that he had felt no pain, had slept weU, but that he felt odd when he stood up. 1 found that he had been fishing on the preceding day, and, having entangled his line, had taken oil’ his shoes and stockings and waded into the river to disengage it; but he said he had not cut his feet, or met with any other accident. To ascer- tain this point, I made him draw oflf his stockings, and examined his legs minutely. Not the slight- est scratch or injur}' could be seen ; but on hold- ing up the right great toe with my finger and thumb to examine the sole of that foot, the leg was drawn up and the muscles of the jaws were suddeutly convulsed, and on releiising the toe these effects instantly ceased. I then closely in- 8j>ected the toe. The nail was perfect; there was not the least swelling or redness in the surround- ing parts, nor any tenderness or uneasiness felt when I compressed the toe laterally, or moved it,208 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY held thus, in any direction; but on the bulb of the toe, nearly at the point where the circumgyra- tions of the cuticle centre, there was a very small elevation, as if a bit of gravel less than the head of a small pin had been there pressed in beneath the cuticle. There was not the least redness on this spot, nor any sensation or effect produced by passing my finger over its surface; but on com- pressing it with my finger and thumb against the nail very cautiously, a slight convulsion instantly ensued. I asked the patient if anjThing pricked him 1 He said “No, but something made him feel very odd." On examining this part well with a pocket lens, no scratch or puncture of the cuticle could be discovered. I then, with a pair of scissors, included and snipped away the slightly elevated part, but not so deeply as to denude the cutis beneath. In the bit of the cuticle thus re- moved I expected to find some point of a thorn or particle of sand, but could not detect anything of the kind. I then pressed the toe in every direction—the strange sensation was gone, and never returned. I do not know that any member of the patient’s family had ever been under treat- ment for insanity ; but two of his uncles, and I believe an aunt, were suicides, and the patientAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 209 . himself many yearn afterwards was ‘ found dro^\^l- ed ’ by the cautious verdict of an inquest.” Every physician has probably from time to time met with kindred, although much less re- markable cases, resulting from reflex irritation; I have myself, more than once, seen cases of hiccup, which had for several days resisted all the ordinary remedies, stopped at once and per- manently, by making an incision for the evacu- ation of a small quantity of pus from the sole of the foot; we have also witnessed an instance in which a patient sufiering from eiy^sipelas in the lower limb, was suddenly, at midnight, seized with violent, maniacal delirium, shouting so as to disturb the neighbourhood, and plunging and kicking so as to be with difficulty restrained. An incision made along the side of the tibia, of which the patient was apparently unconscious, gave exit to some giTimous pus ; instantly the suflerer be- «ime composed, and in less than half an hour was sleeping soundly; the delirium did not return. But the question is, how are such reflex pheno- mena to be accounted for 1 does not the contem- plation of the theories now generally adopted as to the forces acting in the inorganic world, induce210 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY US to suppose that, in the living organism, analo- gous molecular changes, altogether independent of the blood-vessels, may give rise to many of the phenomena in question ? In such cases, we con- fess that analogy is an unsafe guide, but, on the other hand, it is difficult, if not impossible, not to be led some little way by it. In conclusion I wish briefly to discuss two topics already alluded to; Istly, as to the muscular sense, i.e., the appreciation of the feeling which accompanies muscular contraction, and which, in its exaggerated condition, constitutes the ex- cruciating suffering which attends cramp and various muscular spasms; and 2ndly, as to the hypereesthesia which foUows the section of a lateral half of the spinal cord in the posterior limb, on the same side as the lesion. Magendie discovered, in 1839, that irritation Muacular anterior or motor roots of the sense, pain spinal nerves causes pain, and fur- attending 1 1 1 n T cramp and when these roots are di- spasm. vided, irritation of the distal extrem- ity only gives pain; while if the posterior roots of the corresponding spinal nerves be next cut across, pain no longer results from the irritation just mentioned. On these facts Magendie foundedAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 211 liis h}’pothesis of recurrent sensibility. Now what may be the cause of the pain resulting from an irritation propagated thus centrifiigaUy along a motor, and then centripetally along a sensitive nerve 1 To this question Dr. Brown- S^quard gives a most ingenious answer. Al- though Matteucci and Dubois Reymond differ as to the explanation of the phenomenon, yet all agree that if a so-called rheoscopic frog’s leg be prepared and laid on an insulating plate, and a second leg be laid across it, so that the neiwe alone of the second is in contact with the muscles of the fii*st, a contraction produced in the first leg by galvanic or other stimulus, is followed by a secondary (or induced f) contraction in the second, and so for three or four limbs under favourable circumstances. This is due to some change in the galvanic state of the muscle, which by its contraction thus excites the nerv'e lying on it. Now Dr. Brown-St^quard supposes that this change in the galvanic state of a muscle is, in the natural condition, perceived by the sensi- tive nerves of the muscle ; and the delicate j)er- ception of this galvanic change accompanying muscular contraction, however slight, gives to us a correspondingly delicate appreciation of the212 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY feeling of weight, which is one of the most striking phases of the so-called “muscular sense.” The more violent the contraction, the more marked is the disturbance of the galvanic equilibrium, and consequently the more distinct and strong the impression conveyed to the central nervous system. Normally these con- tractions are unaccompanied by pain, but if the muscular contraction be very violent, or if the centripetal nerves of muscle lie in a hypersesthetic condition, pain results, and hence that accompany- ing spasm and cramp. In support of this view Dr. Brown-S(5quard gives the following experi- ment : If we fix a thread to the tendon of a muscle of a frog, and attach to this thread a weight capable of entirely preventing the con- traction of the muscle, which is fixed by its other extremity, we find that ever}’- time the muscle tends to contract, there is an excitation of the nerve lying upon it, and a contraction of the muscle to which this nerve is distributed. Hence it is not necessary for muscle to contract in order to produce in nerves in contact with it a galvanic excitation. It is sufficient that they tend to contract. Now it is found that the greater213 AND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. the resistance to the contraction of tlie muscle, the greater is the galvanic excitation that it gives to nerves in contact with its tissue. On the con- trar}", if there is no resistance at all, as already shown by Prof. Matteucci, after the section of the tendon, then galvanic excitation of the nerves in contact with the contracting muscle no longer exists. In this manner Dr. Brown-Sequard attempts to explain, with what appears to us singular in-214 CRITICAL ESSAY ON THE PHYSIOLOGY genuity, the pain accompanying contracted mus- cles, cramps, spasms, contraction of the uterus, etc., etc. What is to be considered as the true cause of . the increase of sensibihty which fol- llyperoeathesia succeeding lows a division of a lateral half of division of a , i i i • i i lateral lialf spmal marrow, and is observed of the spinal to take place on the same side as coni, the lesion 1 H^^peraesthesia (or at least such augmentation of sensibility as we can discover in animals by pricking, pinching, etc.) seems to result from two distinct conditions, viz., increased vascularity of the surface, and also increased vascularity of portions of the cerc- bro-spinal centres. Of the first we have a fami- liar example in the great sensitiveness of a portion of the skin irritated by the application of a sinapism; the peripheral expansions of the nerves seem to become, in consequence of the greater supply of blood, more acutely sensitive to impressions made upon them—to undergo, in fact, an exaltation of function. Of the se- cond we have an illustration in the increased sensibility, which forms so striking a symptom of the early stages of cerebro-spinal meningitis. In this case, the increased vascularity of theAND PATHOLOGY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 215 central ner\*ous system is accompanied by an increase of sensibility of the surface. AVe know that when the sympathetic nerve is divided in the neck of a rabbit, the ear on the same side becomes warmer, more vascular, and more sensitive tkin the other, and that the same conse<|uences are met with, on the same side as the section, in the posterior limb, after division of a lateral half of the spinal coixl. We are therefore, at first, naturally led to suppose that in each experiment, the vaso-motor nerve fibres being divided, and the blood-vessels paralysed, the increased vascularity consequent upon this gives rise to the increase of sensibility. An exceedingly interesting experiment of Dr. Brown- St^quard’s proves that in the latter instance, at all events, there is another cause for the hyperms- thesia to Ije sought for. In his paper entitled Experimental liesearches on various questions concerning Sensihilitij, read before the Royal Society, in May, 1860, he says that in a rabbit, all the parts of one of whose hind limbs were amputated, except the nerves, and in which the the toes arc, after a time, about losing their sensibility, in consequence of all circulation of blood being at an end in the limb, there Is IS21G CRITICAL ESSAY, ETC. nevertheless a rapid and very notable return of sensibility on dividing the posterior columns of the spinal cord in the domal region. It is ob- vious that this return of sensibility cannot be due to any cause connected with the vessels of the partially amputated limb; we must attribute it rather to the increased vascularity of the spinal cord, which must more or less extensively result from the injury done to it. So also it would appear that, after division of a lateral half of the spinal cord, the increased vascularity which unavoidably attends such an experiment may be, in some degree, a cause of the hypermsthesia already alluded to in a previous part of this article.[217] A XEW THEOKY OF NERVOUS ACTION AS REGARDS TUE TRANSMISSION OF SENSATION ALONG THE NERVES. A LARGE number of facts have of late years lieen observed, tending to show that what has hitherto been regarded as the sense of touch is capable of being resolved into a numl>er of comparatively elementary sensations, as those of temperature, contact, tickling, pain, etc. Many cases have likewise been obser\'ed in which some of these sensations are felt, while i)thers cease to Ih3 [xirceived by the patient. Thus the individual may feel perfectly the con- tact of the hand, when lightly rubl)ed over the .surface, yet not be able to distinguish heat from cold, or lice versa. Analogous phenomena are observed with re- gard to the other senses, as in cases of colour blindness, absence of ear, or inability to hear par- ticular notes, etc. In explanation of these and other kindred 16»218 A NEW THEORY OF phenomena, it has been supposed that there exists in every nerve groups of distinct conduc- tors, each adapted to convey along it distinct nervous impressions. This hypothesis is indeed that which is at the present time adopted by physiologists, and it numbers among its supporter the most distin- guished philosophers. Dr. Brown-S4quard conceives that he has ascertained that, beside the four distinct kinds of nerve fibres of the higher senses, there are at least eleven kinds of nerve fibres in the spinal cord, and in the cranial, spinal, and sympathetic nerves.'’ He enumerates these eleven kinds as follows:— 1st. Conductors of impressions of touch. 2nd. >9 99 of tickling. 3rd. 99 of pain. 4th. 99 99 of temperature. 5 th. 99 99 of muscular con- 6th. Incito-motor conductors. [traction. 7th. Incito-nutritive and secretory conductors. 8th. Voluntary motor conductors. 9th. Involuntary motor conductors. 10 th. Vaso-motor conductors. 11th. Nutritive and secretory conductors.NERVOUS ACTION. 219 “ I hardly need say,” he adds, “ that the num- ber of functionally distinct ner\’’e fibres is prob- ably much greater than is shown in this table.” Mr. Herl^ert Spencer also states his conviction that the nerves which conduct thermic impres- sions are distinct from those which conduct tactile impressions. The following observ’ations may be made when taking a hot bath: let the water be somewhat above blood heat, from 100* to 104* Fahrenheit. After remaining in the bath for a while, until equaUy heated all over, stand up and rub one portion of the body smartly with a flesh brush until it is red, then pause for a few mo- ments and lie down again in the water. It will then be perceived that to the reddened part the water seems much hotter than it does to any other part. “ This fact,” argues Mr. Spencer, “ yields proof, if there needs any, that the nerves which appreciate temperature are not the nerves of touch. Violent friction must produce a mo- mentary incapacity of the nerv^es of touch, and this incapacity would be shown in a decreased, instead of an increased, appreciation of tempera- ture were they the agents concerned.” As will be seen presently, I will venture to ofter another explanation of this and many kin- dred phenomena.220 A NEW THEORY OF As regards the physiology of sensations of colour, a theory so closely analogous as indeed to ])e identical, with reference to the sense of vision, was put forward by Thomas Young, at the com- mencement of this centur}^ He supposed three sorts of conductors to exist in the optic nerve, each specially charged with the functions of con- ducting a different colour—red, green, and violet. The mixture of these three colours in different proportions gave rise to all the other colours of the spectrum. This hypothesis of Young has, with some modifications as to the colours, found a zealous advocate in the distinguished Professor Helm- holtz. It is not necessary for my purpose to enu- merate all the theories which have been ad- vanced in explanation of the various phenomena to which I have just alluded. Suffice it to say that I have long felt that the ingenious idea of distinct conductors did not exactly meet the case. So long ago as in 1861, in a critique on Dr. Brown-S^quard’s work in which his theory Avas first put forward, I expressed the opinion that we could hardly accept the idea “ that the neiwe fibres employed in the transmission of sensitiveNERVOUS ACTION. L 001 impressions of touch, tickling, pain, etc., are as distinct one from the other as they all are from the nerve-fibres employed in the transmission of the orders of the will to the muscles.” The theory which I venture to propose, and which I put forward with diffidence, when I con- sider that another has been advocated by such able physiologists as Helmholtz, Herbert Spencer, and Browm-S^quard, is simply an application of the theory of wave propagation to the passage of various sensations along nerve conductors. I conceive that the various peripheral expan- sions of sensitive nerves take up undulations or vibrations, and convert them into waves capable of being propagated along nervous tissue (neu- rility, as it has been well named by Lewes). Thus the same ners^e tubule may be able to trans- mit along it vibrations differing in character, and hence giving rise to different sensations; and consequently the same neive tubule may, in its normal condition, transmit the wave which pro- duces the idea of simple contact, or that which produces the idea of heat; or, again, the same nerve tubules in the optic nerve which propagate the undulations of red may also propagate, in normal vision, those which excite the idea of yellow or blue, and so for the other senses.A NEW THEOKY OF 222 I advocate this undulatoiy theory of sensation in preference to the theory of distinct conductors; Istly. Because it is simple. 2ndly. Because it is strongly supported by analogy, when compared with wave propagations in other departments of science. 3rdly. Because it appears to be in harmony with a large number of recognized physiological facts, which seem inex- phcable upon the theory of distinct conductors. 1st. When compared with the theoiy of dis- tinct conductors, the undulatory theory is obviously simpler as regards anatomical detail. Anatomy has not given any evidence that in an ordinary compound nerve there exist different kinds of conductors—to the highest powers of the microscope all such tubules are identical in appearance. Nay more; we now know that nerves may be so spheed (if I may use the ex- pression) on to one another, that sensitive neiwes may be made continuous with those which con- vey the commands of the will to muscles. As regards the analogy between this theory ofNERVOUS ACTION. 223 uerve action and the wave theory of light, 1 do not pretend to say that it holds in every respect: there are obvious points of difference. If we infer that light and heat do not consist of par- ticles emitted by a hot body, our natural alterna- tive is to suppose that they are undulations of a medium pervading space. This hypothesis furnishes by far the best explanation of many very curious phenomena in light and heat, and is now generally received. This medium, which we suppose to pervade space likewise, with more or less freedom, pervades transparent and diather- manous bodies; but nerve tissue being neither transparent nor diathermanous, it is not to be conceived that the undulations of this medium are transmitted along ner\^e tissue, as if through glass or rock salt: on the contrary, the vibrations of light and heat are transferred from the medium in question to the axis cylinder of the nerv^e tubule, in a form capable of being propagated to the sensorium. The waves propagated along nerve tubules are probably oscillatory movements accompanied by molecular change. Nerv^ous ac- tion, so far as conduction is concerned, like mus- cular action, is necessarily accompanied by wear and teiu*: decomposition or waste follows it andA NEW THEORY OF 224 entails more or less incapacity for conveying im- pressions like those whereby the nerve has been exhausted, until a certain i^mount of repair has been accomplished. As I conceive, the analogy lies chiefly in this : as we know, various solid and liquid bodies exercise a selective absorption both for heat and light, in virtue of which certain rays are set ajDart to be stopped, whde certain others are allowed to proceed; after an analogous fashion, certain nerves exercise a so-called selective power, per- mitting certain undulations to proceed, w^hile those of a different wave length are intercepted. Most substances, including those that are trans- parent for light, are generally opaque for dark heat of great wave length and small refrangibility. So we have no reason to think that heat can excite in the retina undulations capable of being propagated by the optic nerve to the sensorium, although light certainly does so. Instead of supposing, like Dr. Brown-S^quard, that there exist a great number of distinct con- ductors, I should suppose that there are a gxeat number of distinct sensations propagated along the nerve tubules, in molecular oscillations of different varieties or various wave lengths..NEKVOUS ACTION. 225 As the rays of the heat, light, and actinic spectra differ in refrangibility, so do the undu- lations produced by heat, cold, pain, tickling, or the unfelt sensation (if I may use the phrase), which last correspond to the invisible and cold actinic rays. As in the economy of nature the actinic rays play a piirt of vast importance, so these vibrations, which play along our nerv'es, without our know- ing it, are all-important in the animal economy. The unfelt tickling which keeps the heart in regular and ceaseless action during life, is not less important to man than that part of the sun- beam which we cannot see, nor yet feel the warmth of, is in the economy of nature. The idea which I wish to convey is illustrated by the absorption bands occurring in different parts of the visible spectnim, when various mat- ters are submitted to examination in the spectro- scope. Perhaps, however, the intercepting of calorific waves by gases, or by the infinitely minute quantity of matter persuading the atmos- phere in the form of perfume, fonns even a more striking illustration. Professor Tyndalls well knouTi experiment on this subject is thus carried out. The source of waves which he selects forA NEW THEORY OF 226 this experiment is a copper plate, against the back of which a steady sheet of flame is peraiitted to play. Emerging from the copper, the waves first pass through a space devoid of air, and enter a hollow glass tube three feet long and three inches wide (this, as it were, represents a nerve tubule on a large scale). The two ends of this cylinder are closed by plates of rock salt, the only solid substance offering a hardly perceptible ob- stacle to the passage of waves of heat. After passing through the tube, the radiant heat falls on one face of a thermo-electric pile. This fa- mous instrument, and not an ordinary thermome- ter, is used in these inquiries. It is used in a somewhat novel w’’ay. The current generated in this pile is a consequence of a difference of tem- perature between its two opposite faces. If, therefore, an exactly equal amount of heat be permitted to fall on the face of the pile opposite to that receiving the heat which passes through the tube, the needle of the galvanometer con- nected wdth the pile wiW. stand at zero. The needle, in fact, represents the tongue of a delicate balance perfectly adjusted; while it points to the zero marked on the circle, we may suppose the weights in each scale to be exactly equal.227 NERVOUS ACTION. Suppose the glass tube, through which the waves of heat pass from the copper plate to be exhausted by an air pump. Perfectly equal quantities of heat are now permitted to reach the opposite faces of the pile, so that the needle points to zero. Now let the molecules of any gas enter the exhausted tube; if these molecules pos- sess any power of intercepting the heat waves coming from the copper, the equQibriuni will be destroyed, the opposing face of the })ile will tri- umph, and the needle will leave the zero point. From the deflections produced by pemiitting gases, vapours, and perfumes to enter the ex- hausted tube. Professor Tyndall has deduced the relative amounts of wave motion intercepted by their molecules. He thus finds that, the heat waves intereepted by atmospheric air being taken as unity, the amount absorbed by the following gases stand thus in relation to each other: Air Oxygen Nitrogen ... Carbonic acid Sulphurous acid Relative Absorption. 1 1 1 972 6,480 Some vapours allow the waves a comparativelyA NEW THEORY OF 228 free passage; in other cases the minutest bubble of vapour introduced into the tube causes a de- flection of the needle. Assuming the absorption effected by air at a pressure of one atmosphere to be unity, the following are the absorptions effected by certain vapours at a pressure of one- sixtieth of an atmosphere : Eeducing dry air to the pressure of the acetic ether here employed, and comparing them to- gether, the quantity of wave motion intercepted by the latter would be many thousand times that intercepted by aii-. A similar effect is produced by perfumes dif- fused in the air. Carrying, for example, a stream of dry air over bibulous paper moistened with patchouli, the scent taken up by the current absorbs twenty times the quantity of heat inter- cepted ]jy the air which carries it. The following are some of the results obtained with various essential oils; the odour, in each case, being car- ried by a current of dry air into the tube already employed for gases and vapours. Name of Vapour. Absorption. 47 321 G12 Bisulphide of CJarbon Amylene Acetic Ether ...NERVOUS ACTION. 229 Perfume. Absorption. Patchouli 30 Otto of Roses ... 37 Lavender 60 Rosemary 74 Aniseed ... 372 It would, adds Professor Tyndall, be idle to speculate on the quantities of matter concerned in these actions. It is known that the attenuation of the odorous matter of perfumes is almost infinite, how incon- ceivably minute therefore is the material change in the contents of the tube, which, notwithstand- ing, yields .such striking results in the wave absorption. The change within a ner\’c tubule resulting from the use of santonin, etc., or from exhaustion and other causes, can readly be conceived to intercept certiiin waves of motion, although the material change may be far beyond the reach of chemical re.search, and capable in many instances of such speedy repair as to cause some of the resulting phenomena to l>e very transient. A neive which has l^een for a time in action exerci- sing its proper function, Ijecomes in some degree incapacitated by undergoing a subtile molecularA XEW THEORY OF 230 change ; it becomes, as it were, like the air in the tube, when pervaded by the molecules of per- fume ; as it re-integrates itself from nutritive ma- terials brought by the Ijlood, it recovers its original ability to conduct imj^ressions. Were we to accept Mr. Herbert Spencer’s inter- pretation of the experiment, made by rubbing a portion of the surface of the body and after- wards perceiving what seems to be increased tem- perature of the water of the bath, as a crucial test of the existence of separate conductors for tactile and thermic impressions, we should be forced to admit, on similar grounds, an absolutely infinite variety of conductor for all sorts of impressions. There is no essential difference between this ex- periment and a vast multitude of others. When the hot water of the bath touches the surface of the body, a compound sensation results—partly tactile, partly thermic. The part which has been rubbed has by action undergone exhaustion and a consequent molecular change within its structure, which causes the tactile vibrations to be inter- cepted, while the thermic vibrations all pass on to the sensorium gndng the sensation of greater heat in the part rubbed. When we gaze at a coloured disc for a time.231 NERVOUS ACTION. say red or blue, and afterwards by looking upon a white surface, see the complimentary colour, what happens on the undulator}" liypothesis is this : tiiose nerv^e tubules connected with the patch of the retina upon which the coloured rays from the disc fell, have undergone a slight mole- cular change, so that when a white surface is looked upon, all the rays are propagated to the sensoriura save the red or blue; we see white, minus the red or blue rays, wliich are more or less completely absorl^ed in transitu—consequently we have the impression of the complimentary col- our. In youug persons, in whom nutrition is active, these effects are ver}’’ transient. As we get older we see the complimentary colour more dis- tii^tly and for a longer time. A vast number of familiar examples of similar phenomena might be mentioned. If we smell a musk plant in full blos.som (or any such well-marked odorous plant) two or three times—inhaling strongly— it seems to cease to have any odour ; but at the same moment we can perceive the perfume of a rose even more powerfully then usual. After eat- ing dates or sweetmeats, we can with difficulty say whether we have any sugar in our cup of tea, although the flavour of the tea itself is very dis- 15232 A NEW THEORY OF NERVOUS ACTION. tinct. The peculiar modifications of taste, as the taste of water after eating artichokes, or of port wine after cheese, etc., are analogous phenomena. The remarkable effects also of lead poisoning upon sensation, of santonine on the optic nerve, etc., appear to me more readily explicable upon the undulatory hypothesis than upon that of distinct conductors. Organs of special sense are of course endowed with distinct conductors for vision, hearing, smell. There are cases to show that the forepart of the tongue is separately endowed with conduc- tors for taste, distinct from those for tactile and thermic impressions ;* but this is a very different thing from resolving each variety of special sen- sation into so many elementary sensations, ea^ih having a distinct channel for its conduction. * See the case of double facial palsy with observations on the physiology of the nerves supplying the forepart of the tongue, by the author, communicated to the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, London, March, 1875, Also of paralysis of the fifth pair. By Dr. Althaus, Medical Chirurgical Transactions, vol. 62.[ 238 ] LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY APPLIED TO PRACTICE. c— INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. At the present moment, when the subject of experimentation’ on animak is a topic of much public comment, I feel that it may not be con- sidered out of place to offer a few introductory observations on the subject, as prefatory to the course of Lectures which follow. The physiologists of Europe and America are a comparatively small band of earnest scientific workers. They are, J conceive, men of sufiBcient humanity, cultivation, and refinement, to feel very deeply all the grave responsibility involved in ex- perimentation on living animals. It may be confidently asserted, that in proportion to their numbers, they have achieved as much, if not more than any corresponding number of indi\’iduals, for the benefit of the human race. They have !«•234 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY enlightened science with not a few of its most brilliant discoveries. Those who have not hesi- tated to assail them as being reckless and cruel, should remember, that in the ordinary, common- sense acceptation of the term, cruelty is not synonymous mth the infliction of pain. The surgeon who has the coiu’age and resolu- tion to perform a bloody operation, and so save the life or limb of his patient, would be justly indignant at being styled cruel, because, in order to attain his object, it was necessary for liim in the first instance to inflict much suffering. In like manner, the physiologist, who (whether rightly or wrongly is beside the question) devout- ly believes that the researches in which he is engaged are such as will prove beneficial to man- kind, may well be indignant when accused of cruelty in experimenting on animals, when his ultimate object is to relieve human suffering or avert death. In every operative procedure, the cruelty bears a relation, not only to the object to be attained, but to the necessity for the operation; this is equally true of surgical as of physiological operations. If the life of a fellow-creature can only be saved by the loss of a limb, the object to be gained is so great, and the necessity so urgent,APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 235 that all cruelty vanishes from the operation. If the expected physiological result be of great value, and cannot be attained except by experiment on a living animal, vivisection ceases to be cruelty. Assuming that man has a right to use for his advantage the lower animals, the question of the justifiability of experiment on livdng animals resolves itself simply into this—is the result sought for sufiiciently valuable to justify the means taken to obtain itl This question has been, and probably ever will be, difierently answered by various individuals, according to the point of view from which each regards it. He who does not know, passibly even by name, the disease diabetes, vvill naturally fancy that all researches concerning the formation of sugar in the animal economy are delusions as vain as the search for the philosopher’s stone. He who, as a physician, is conversant with this formidable malady, and at once feels his own impotence to grapple with it successfully, and is yet filled with an earnest desire to do so, will prize very highly any physiological discoveries calculated to throw light on its oliscurities; while he whose lot it has been to watch its progress in a near and dear relative—to see its rapid wasting, its craving ap-236 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY petite, its burning thirst which cannot be slaked and renders life unendurable—will unhesitatingly conclude that true humanity requires that know- ledge shall be sought from every source, for the cure of this disease. Admitting that the value of the result to be obtained must be very variously estimated by different individuals, it is obvious why, as a gene- ral rule, medical men have not hesitated in pro- nouncing vivisection justifiable. Being familiar with the evils, they can appreciate the efforts— very often fruitless, but none the less meritorious —of physiologists to throw light on the obscure phenomena of disease, by experiments on animals. That their devotion is not of an idle or transient kind, is proved also by the readiness with which they often give up themselves to laborious and sometimes horribly painful experiments. It must be confessed that in the eyes of the public, or of those medically uninstructed, the justification of vivisection must be looked for principally in the records of the past; and in judging thus of the value of the vast benefits which mankind has reaped from physiological experimentation, great differences of opinion will be found to exist, even among medical j)ractitioners of eminence and abil-237 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. ity. The fact that the blood-vessels in the ear of a rabbit become dilated after the division of a pai- ticular nen’^e in the animal’s neck, will seem to some an unimportant discovery, while others will regard it as one full of meaning, and throwing a flood of light on many morbid phenomena The medically uninstructed can never form just opin- ions on such subjects. Even among medical men, many forget or are ignorant that the principles which they daily apply in practice, are based on facts primarily obtained by the experimental physiologist; just as he who works the telegraph forgets or is ignorant that the primary discovery of galvanism is due to the frog, and that if num- bers of these creatures had not been immolated on the altars of science, our telegraphs would not exist. A little reflection must, 1 conceive, convince most people that the entire aspect of medical and surgical practice has been modified through the knowledge derived from ex|)eriment8 on animals. 1 do not speak only of the experi- ments by incision, for I fancy that all painful experiments must be embraced under the same head. Almost all that is known with precision of the processes of inflammation has been thus learned. 1 know that one of the most accom-LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 238 plished and intelligent surgeons that this country has ever produced, refused to accept the discov- eries of Sir Charles Bell, concerning the roots of the spinal nerves, until Muller and Magcndie placed them beyond doubt by experiment. Many a skilful practitioner now makes an accurate and correct diagnosis in heart disease, who is little conversant with the history of the experiments which have led to the knowledge of the causes of the heart-sounds. INIany a surgeon dexterously applies a ligature on a bleeding vessel, forgetful that were it not for experiments on the arteries of animals, he might still be using the red-hot iron to staunch the blood. In these later times, perhaps experiments on the spinal cord—on the transplantation of peri- osteal and other membranes—on the sympathetic nerve—on the influence of the nervous system over the blood-vessels, are among the physiologi- cal researches which are most calculated to alter and improve practice. Yet many may ask what absolute good has arisen from discoveries of this kind ? To this it must be answered—that it is not possible to know how much good may, and does arise from any newly discovered fact. The scientific inquirer must be led on by the sure andAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 239 certain hope that truth and knowledge arc good— that the most apparently unimportant discover}^ may not only increase the admiration and awe with which we contemplate the wondrous work- ings of Nature, but possibly be full of benefit to man. Wlien formic acid was prepared from the red wa.t(formica rufa), the discoverer little knew that eventually chloroform, with all its blessings, would be the fruit borne. On the other hand, there are many who will say that the good which has arisen from physiological experiments on animals is immeasurably great. Among those will be found men of the kindliest natures and tenderest feelings, who would slirink, with that repugnance which is natural to most men, from inflicting pain wantonly on any creature, yet have not hesitated to have recouise to experi- ment, where they conceived it to be their duty thus to interrogate nature. In conclusion, I would add that he who devotes hLs life to the study of anatomy and physiology must meet with hiuch that would cause most men to draw back at first with horror and disgust. Because he overcomes these natural feelings—l)ecause, in search of what appears to him of untold value to suffering mankind, he trains himself to toil amongLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 240 the dead, and nerves himself to operate upon the living—is he to be accused of inhumanity and cruelty ? LECTURE I. ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OVER THE HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS. Gentlemen, In commencing the short course of lectures which I propose to deliver during the ensuing fortnight, I wish to make a few introductory ob- servations, which shall be as brief as possible. I am induced to undertake the delivery of the present course of lectures from two considerations; first, because the subjects I propose to treat of, and which I have myself for some years studied with a good deal of assiduity, appear to me to be of great practical value ; and secondly, because I conceive that the thoughtful consideration of some of the more obstruse physiological problems which are still “ open questions,” is about the best men- tal training to which the student of medicine can submit himself. In the systematic courses of lectures delivered here, neither my colleagues nor241 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. myself consider that we should be justified in bringing prominently under your notice the as yet unproven novelties of the day, any more than our own crude conceptions. Each finds abundant material for his course, in the exposition of those views and facts which have received the sanction of time, and may now be regarded as established truths; but in dealing with such topics, the teacher is very apt to become dogmatic, and to encourage in his pupil rather an aptitude for ac- cumulating facts, than a habit of observing and reasoning upon them. In my present course, I cannot be dogmatic; the difficult nature of the subject does not permit a wise person to make positive assertion. You shall have an opportunity of criticising facts and witnessing phenomena upon which various theories arc based. You shall have an opportunity of drawing your own deductions; for my part, I shall rejoice at your criticisms, and be most happy to hear the reason- ing of any who may arrive at conclusions difier- ing from those which I have been led to form. It is my intention, therefore, to illustrate these lectures by experiments performed upon living animals (myself among others), and upon animak recently killed. I believe, gentlemen, that many242 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY of you know me well enough to think that I would not willingly cause useless pain to either animal or man; but the surgeon is early taught to look beyond the pain of the moment to the benefit of the future; -and while I heartily concur in the censure of any who may, without sufficient reason, have recourse to vivisection, yet I must express my conviction, that those humane, and, no doubt, very kind-hearted persons, who object altogether to this method of scientific investiga- tion, take a very limited view of the subject. If it was their duty, as it wiU be yours, to witness the convulsive writhings of the epileptic, or to sit by while the mother, who will not trust it in the hands of a stranger, watches her infant as it lies upon her lap, and with a power of observation, by experience rendered painfully acute, perceives the movements of the lips, the twitching of the eye, the pallor and subsequent lividity of the face, the restless motion of the head, and helpless cry that usher in the general convulsion, then, I conceive, such persons would admit that true humanity permits, in order to make a step towards unravelling the vast en- tanglement in which the mysterious phenomena of disease are involved, that animals may be sacrificed.243 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. To say that the records of the past do not show any important knowledge to have been added to the general stock through this channel, is, as the most junior among you well knows, utterly false; but even were it true, it would be no reason why we should not endeavour, by such experimental researches, to solve those abstruse problems, upon which the life, health, and happiness of mankind so much depend. The surgeon who would need- lessly inflict suffering upon his patient, would lie as unworthy of the noble profession which he fol- lows, as the physiologist who would thoughtlessly torture an animal would be untrue to his calling; but eacli must have the nerv’e and the courage to be at times “ bloody, hold, and resolute.’' I shall now proceed to consider the influence of the nerv'es upon the viiscular system—that is to say, their immediate influence over the heart and blood-vessels, in which, of course, is involved their secondary influence on nutrition, secretion, animal heat, etc.; and during this day’s lecture I shall principally occupy your time with experi- mental demonstrations, upon which I shall subse- quently comment. My first experiment shall be performed upon myself, and Dr. Cruise wiU note the results upon the board:—LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 244 First experiment.—The temperature of my left hand, as indicated by the thermometer (Fahren- heit’s) which I grasp in it, is at present 90®, a second thermometer placed in my mouth, stands at 99°. I now plunge my right arm into this vessel of melting ice, and Dr. Cruise will write down the result after five minutes. Left hand ... ... 86° Mouth ... ... 99° Right hand, or rather ice water 44° You see from these figures that the result is this—the general temperature of the circulating fluid, as evidenced by the heat of the mouth, undergoes no change; but the considerable cold- ness of the right upper limb is followed by a sympathetic loss of warmth in the left, amounting in this instance to four degrees. But Dr. Brown-S^quard, after repeating this experiment several times on himself and others, found that there is no regularity in the amount of heat lost by the hand which remains out of the water; in one of his experiments, the hand kept in the atmosphere lost 22° F. in seven minutes, while the temperature of the mouth was not diminished more than the fifth of a degree, F.245 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. The ordinary loss amounts, after some minutes, to from 6° to 8® F. In one case he observed a loss of only 2°, and in another there occurred no loss at all—on the contrar}^ an increase of tem- perature amounting to 1°*4 F. The general conclusion is, that in these experi- ments the temperature of the body does not change sensibly, while a sympathetic contraction of the blood-vessels in a distant part is usually at- tended with a considerable loss of temperature in that part. The cooling of my left hand cannot have depended upon the arrival in it of colder blood, for my mouth remained as before. We must infer, therefore, that the cooling depended on a less supply of blood, the blood-vessels having contracted in sympathy with the other limb. In his well known article on animal heat, in Todd's Cyclopmlia of A natomy and Physiology, W. F. Edwards observes concerning this experi- ment :—“ When one hand was plunged in water cooled down by ice, the other, which was not subjected to the action of the cold bath, lost nearly five degrees (R.) in temperature. “ It is therefore apparent,” he continues, “first, that partial chills, or the exposure of individual parts to low temperatures, may be, and are, felt246 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY very extensively, even when the cold is not very severe. Second, that the chilling of a single part, such as the hand or foot, may cause a loss of temperature in all the other parts of the body, even far beyond what could have been considered likely or possible.” Edwards did not observe that the temperature of the mouth does not vary in a degree corresponding with the hand not in the bath. Had he known this fact, he would not have drawn the second conclusion just stated, nor would he, without qualification, have adopted the axiom:—“ That we cannot either raise or lower the temperature of any one part of the body, without all the other parts of the frame being affected, and suffering a corresponding rise or fall in temperature, more or less, according to circum- stances.” The real significance and true interpretation of this experiment,* which was first accurately per- formed by Drs. Brown-Sbquard and Tholozan, will become more obvious when you have wit- nessed the very striking results of the remarkable experiment I am now about to perform. * M. Vulpian, in his Legons sur I'appareil Vaso-Moteur, page 236, states that he has not obtained the same results as MJI. Tholozan and Brown-S6quard. The experiment does not give constant results.247 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. Second experiment.—I now proceed to divide, in this rabbit’s neck, the ceiwical s\Tnpathetic nerve on the right side. I need hardly say that it is an operation of some delicacy; after dividing the integument, which is fii*st sponged well with water to keep aside the hair, I draw the parts aside, using two pair of forceps; here, you see, is the carotid artery, here the pneumogastric nerve, and behind, the small filament of the s}Tnpatlietic for which I seek. 1 now divide it; and almost at once you perceive what marked effects follow. The pupil is decidedly more constricted on the side of the injury, the conjunctiva more vascular, the right ear is unmistakablv warmer than the left; this you can all perceive, for even to the hand it is too obvious to be a matter of any doubt. Place the two ears lietween you and the light, and you see how surprisingly the vascularity of the right exceeds that of the left, how large and full the vessels are, and how you can feel the pulse in the right, but cannot discover its beatings at all in the left ear. In this other white rabbit, on which I some days ago made thLs di\dsion of the sympathetic, you see how distinct are the same effects, and you perceive also, that the se- 17LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 248 cretion of the lachrymal gland is so increased, that it has wet the cheek. We find, in short, that division of the sympa- thetic nerve in the neck produces paralysis of the coats of the blood-vessels of the corresponding half of the head ; that the dilated vessels conse- quently permit a great afflux of fflood; that great vascularity, increase of heat, augmentation of secretion, and, in brief, very vigorous nutrition of the parts, are the general result. We owe to the illustrious Claude Bernard the discovery of the principal results due to division of the cervical portion of the s}’mpathetic: assu- redly the discovery is one in which experimental physiology has reason to triumph, for it must be recrarded as one of the most valuable disclosures of modern science. It cements together the vast number of isolated facts, which, since the days of Prochaska and Eobert Whytt, have been accumu- lating upon the hands of physiologists, but which, in the length and breadth of their importance, even Marshall Hall himself did not appreciate. But let us turn to the other half of this experi- ment; let me remind you that Dr. Brown-S4quard in America, Professor Claude Bernard in Paris, and Dr. Augustus Waller in England, almostAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 249 simultaneously obsen^ed that galvanization of the divided sjunpathetic is followed by a reversal of all the phenomena which have been already noticed to follow its division—the vessels contract, heat diminishes, secretion is checked. “The phenomena,” sa3^8 Dr. Brown-Sequard, “ observed after the section or galvanization of this nerv^e, with the exception of a few, may^ l)e summed up under the three following heads:— Section of the Nerve. 1. —Dilatation of blood-vessels. 2. —Afflux of blood. 3. —Increase of \'ital properties. Galvanization of the Nerve. 1. —Contraction of blood-vessels. 2. —Diminution of blood. 3. —Decrease of vital properties. “ Tlie vie'w that the section of the cervical sym- pathetic is followed by a paralysis of the blood- vessels, in consequence of which more blood passes through these vessels in a given time, producing the increa.se of vital properties of the contractile and nersmus tis.sues —this view is now admitted by almost all physiologists. It is based250 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY on a great many various experiments made by Dr, Augustus Waller, Bonders and several of bis pupils, Kussmaul and Tenner, Moritz ScbifF, and myself, showing that all circumstances, whatever they may be, which cause an increase in the quantity of blood passing in the blood-vessels of the head in a given time, produce there almost, if not all, the phenomena follo'wing the section of the cervical sympathetic." Let me now direct your attention to another experiment, viz,, that which shows how the action of the heart is controlled and even arrested by passing along the pneumogastric nerves induced galvanic currents. Claude Bernard had already ascertained that the sounds of the heart were not to be heard in a dog during galvanization of the vagi by induced currents, but it is to the brothers Ernest and Henri Weber* that the merit is due of having first clearly enunciated the fact that the action of the heart is arrested under these circum- stances. It is one of the fundamental experi- ments connected with the subject of which I now treat, and I earnestly beg your closest attention to the precise circumstances under which it is performed. I shall ask Dr. Cruise to undertake * Handworterbuch der Physiologic, Art. Muskelbewegung, 1846.APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 251 for me the duty of maiiitaiiiing artificial respira- tion, and Dr. Bennett will afterwards be good enough to count the beatings of the heart; but you shall all quite plainly witness the result. Third experiment.—The animal (a large and vigorous rabbit) is first killed by poisoning with prussic acid. 1 now fasten in the trachea a portion of a catheter having a vulcanized India-rubber tulie attached, through which artificial respiration will be kept up. Next, 1 carefully raise both pneumogastric nerves upon this little rod of glass ; but as yet 1 do not divide them. Now, upon opening the thorax, the heart is seen pulsating very vigorously, but you will immediately see that it acts even more rapidly when 1 divide the two pneumogastrics, as 1 now do at one cut of the scis- sors. In fact, it now goes too rapidly to be count- ed. I next tie a ligature of silk on that extrem- ity of each pneumogastric which is in connexion with the heart, and by this contrivance of having a little weight at the other end of the silk thread, which 1 hang upon this stand, I gently raise up from the other parts of the neck, about half an inch of each nerve. Everything is now ready for me to apply to the nerves the wires from my induction coil. You see, before I pass the shocks,252 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY the pulsations are still too rapid to be reckoned— they can hardly l)c less than 200 per minute. I now bring the wires in contact with the nerves— the heart at once almost ceases to beat—its pul- sations arc reduced to eighteen per minute. When I break contact, you perceive it quickly recovers, and pulsates as rapidly as ever. 1 again make contact, giving the strongest shocks which this rather feeble induction coil can give with the one small cell of a Daniel’s battery. You see it is not quite, but almost quite stopped, and between the contractions, which now take place irregularly, the heart lies perfectly flaccid, and becomes distended with blood. I cannot, in this instance, succeed in completely stopping the heart; my induction coil is not strong enough. Some of you have ah-eady seen me succeed in doing this, and at all events the eflects, as you now witness them, are sufficiently striking. At this moment, again, you see the heart is pulsating as fast as ever. You now perceive that galvanization of the pneumogastric neiwes produces upon the muscular structure of the heart an eflect totally diiferent from that produced upon an ordinary muscle, by galvanizing its motor nerve. When I place the253 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. wires in contact with the nerves of the hind limbs, you observe the muscles are violently tetanized, and a peculiar thrUl is communicated to the hand, the result of the rapid contractions produced by the quick succession of shocks. You also see that when 1 pass the currents in different directions through the animal’s body, no controlling in- fluence is exercised over the rapid action of tlie heart, as when 1 bring the wires in contact with the pneumogastric nerves. Uur experiments to-day, have occupied so much time that 1 shall defer until my next lecture an account of some further experiments, the nature of which prevents me from being able to exhibit them to so L'lrge a class. 1 shall now conclude by stating the explanation given of the last exj^er- iment by Dr. Brown-Sdquard. The stopping of the hciut, he says, depends upon the absence of excitation. The cause exciting the heart to Ixjat, he supposes to be the blood contained in the mi- nute blood-vessels of this organ; and he conceives that galvanization of the par vagum produces a complete constriction of the capillary vessels of the heart; the excitation, then, caimot take place on account of the expulsion of the blood from the capillaries.254 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. Violent mechanical excitation of the medulla oblongata produces a similar stopping of the heart’s action. When a violent and sudden emo- tion causes death, it is, he supposes, by acting on the medulla oblongata that it has such a powerful effect; as an excitation is thus produced on the par vagum, which appears to have its true origin in the neighbourhood of the nib of the calamus scriptor'ius, and in consecpience the blood-vessels of the heart contract, and expel the blood they contained, and with it, the natural excitement which causes the movements of the heart, so that a complete syncope and death take place. Whether this ingenious theory satisfies you, I know not; to my mind it does not meet all the exigen- cies of the case, for why, then, should the heart continue for a time to pulsate rhythmically, when entirely removed from the body, and when all circulation through its vessels must have ceased? Moreover, we may ask what causes it to commence pulsating again when once stopped; what propels again the stimulating fluid through its own capillaries before its own action is evoked ? But in the next lecture we shall con- sider the theoretic views of others, as well as the practical bearings of the influence of the nerves on the vascular system.[ 255 ] LECTURE II. REF7.EX PHEXOMEXA OF DISEASE, EXPLAINED THROUGH THE INFLUENCE OF THE NERVES OVER THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Gentlemen, We shall to-day proceed to consider what may be the true interpretation of the three primar}" experiments which occupied so much of our time during the last day’s lecture ; and subsequently I shall strive to point out to you theii* practical bearing upon various morbid conditions. Let me first briefly recapitulate the more striking results of these experiments. 1st. When my right hand was plunged into the vessel of water and ice, the opposite hand lost four degrees of heat, while the thermometer in my mouth showed that there was no general loss of temperature. 2nd. I believe there is no one present who was not satisfied as to the increased vascularity, the greater warmth, and the constriction of the pupil, resulting from division of the cervdcal s}Tnp'a- thetic in the rabbit, and which occuis in the eai-LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 256 and side of the head coiTesponding with the section. 3rd. You all saw how remarkable was the controlling influence exercised over the pulsations of the heart by galvanizing the pneumogastric nerves. Each of these experiments is illustrative of the influence of the nervous system over the vascular. They have foimed the bases of physiological theories very widely diflering from each other, and have been the starting-points for other, per- haps less striking, but not less valuable experi- ments, bearing upon the same subject. The muscular tunic of the vessels which ramify through the body places them under the control of the nervous system as completely as that of the heart itself. As the muscular sti’ucture of the heart, so the muscular structure of the vessels is subject to emotional and reflex influences. It is not only the blood-vessels of the cheeks which blush: the greater development of the muscular tunic in the vessels of glands and of the brain, shows that in those situations the arrangements for controlling the blood-supply are even more complete than elsewhere. It is true that it has long been known that intimate relations exist be-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 257 tween organs more or less remote from each other. The term sympathy has long Ijeen in use, and equally applied to the healthy functional activity as to the pathological disturbances of organs distinct from each other. In the eyes of the practitioner the morbid sympathies (or reflex disturbances), such as occur in teething chiltlren, or later in life from irritation of the gastro-intes- tinal or genito-urinary systems, etc., have natu- rally eclipsed in interest the nomnd physiological sympathies, such as that between the uterus and mammary gland, the mucous membrane of the tongue, and the salivary glands, etc. But be it remembered that they are closely kindred pheno- mena, similar in mechanism, and in fact often passing into each other so gradually that it is impossible to say when the normal terminates and the morbid Ijegins. Histology and physiology have of late years curtailed the power of the so-styled “ great sym- pathetic.” While the latter makes it subseiwient to the cerebro-spinal system of which it is a depend- ant, histology has extended its domains. Peripheral ganglionic expansions have been demonstrated where they were previously unknown ; and yet the entire ganglionic system seems to have a pre-LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 258 siding influence exercised over it by the cere- bro-spinal centres—at times being stimulated to increased activity, at times checked or controlled by what has been called inhibitory action. The efiect of galvanizing the pneumogastric nerves, and thereby checking or entirely stopping the rhythmical action of the heart, finds a counter- part deseiwing of attention in Pfliiger’s experi- ment, in which the peristaltic action of the in- testine is controlled by strongly galvanizing the splanchnic nerves. In operating upon the large edible frog of the continent, the same physio- logist has succeeded in applying the galvanic stimulus to the anterior roots of the sciatic nerve within the spinal canal, and thereby causing complete constriction of the arteries of the webs. Division, on the other hand, of the same roots was followed by full dilatation of the vessels. It can be shown by the aid of a ha^modyna- mometer placed in communication with the caro- tid, that a considerable part of the blood-vessels of the body become contracted under certain circumstances. Thus this instrument indicates a notable increase of blood'pressure, when in a do2f. whose sciatic nerve has been cut across, the central end of the nerve has been excited. ThisAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 259 effect can only be explained by a contraction of the small vessels, for the result is the same whether the pneumogastrics have been pre- ^^ou8ly cut or not. A considerable irritation of the skin gives rise to a like result. Practically speaking, one of the most important direct demonstrations of the contraction of blood- vessels, in oljedience to reflex stimulation, is that shown by Brown-S6quard, wherein the ve.ssels of the spinal marrow contract under the influence of irritiition of the nerv'es of the solar plexus. But of the disclosures of physiology on this subject, perhaps the most remarkable is that brought to light by the observations of Claude Bernard, on the action of the nerves on the vessels of the .sub-maxillary gland of a dog. This gland is supplied with nerv’es from two sources. One is a branch of the lingual, the second is derived from the great sympathetic, the filaments of which accompany the artery. These nerves can Ikj easily distinguished, and when acted upon separately, are attended with very" dissimilar re- sults. When the filaments of the sympathetic are divided, the twig from the lingual remaining untouched, the blood-vessels immediately dilate260 LECTCTRES ON PHYSIOLOGY very much. So free and rapid is the circulation of the blood through the dilated vessels of the gland, that the blood in its passage through them is not changed into venous blood, but comes from the veins of a bright arterial red, and even springs from an opening in the vein in jets as if from an artery. When, on the contrary, the twig of the lingual is severed, the filaments of the sympathetic remaining uninjured, the shrunken aspect of the gland indicates the contracted state of its vessels, and the retarded circulation causes the blood in the veins to be of a dark venous hue. Corresponding but reversed effects may be pro- duced by galvanizing the divided nerves—that is to say, galvanization of the sympathetic is fol- lowed by contraction, that of the lingual by dila- tation of the vessels. It must be confessed that as yet no satisfac- tory explanation has been offered of these pheno- mena of contraction and dilatation of blood- vessels. The view of Professor Bernard, that there are two distinct classes of vaso-motor nerves—one presiding over contraction, the other over dilatation—and that dilatation as well as contraction is an active process, cannot, 1 con- ceive, in the present state of science, be admitted.APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 261 For my part, I cannot comprehend the possibility of active dilatation of a hollow tube, as, for in- stance, a portion of intestine; and that the dis- tinguished physiologist in question feels the difficulty of maintaining the position which he has biken up, is obvious from his own words. “ For," he says, “ according to all received no- tions up to the pre.sent time, contraction is the active or tonic state of all tissues; but to consider the opposite condition as an}’thiug but a passive effect, will probably appear a paradox at first to most physiologists ; nor are we prepared at pre- sent to explain the manner in which this active enlargement of the vessels is effected." The theory of PHiiger on this subject is, to say the least, exceedingly ingenious. He fancies that as there is one set of nerves through which mus- cular tissue is excited to action, so there is a second set which exercises a control over this action, and checks it (the “ hemmungs nerven system," or inhibitory system of nerves) ; that, in short, one set is like the whip, the other like the rein of the rider ; that, as for instance in our ex- periment upon the heart, while one kind of uerv'ous influence lashes it into action, the galva- nizing of the pneumogastric curbs and stops itsLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 262 vigorous pulsations. To assign to the nerves functions so distinct as those of the bridle and the lash, appears to me a very startling innova- tion in physiology ; and although I l)elieve it has been very generally accepted, yet I cannot but think that we shall yet find a simpler expla- nation for the phenomenon in question. Although I am myself unable to get the better of my old prejudices, which make me regard muscular con- traction as an active process, resulting from the stimulation conveyed to the muscular fibre through the nerves, yet I freely confess that the notions of Dr. C. B. Eadcliffe, with regard to muscular action, have been shown to be in har- mony with many known facts. According to his view, it appears that there is a state of polarity in living muscle during re- laxation which produces relaxation, and that con- traction is nothing more than the necessary result of the muscle being liberated from this state, and • left to the operation of the attractive force which is inherent in the physical constitution of the muscular molecules. In speaking of the action of the lingual nerve in Bernard’s experiment upon the sub-maxillary gland, Dr. Eadcliffe supposes that the twig of the lingual acts upon the coatsAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 263 of the vessels through the iustrumentalitv of the sympathetic. “ Iii accepting this \dew/' he says, “it is not necessary to seek for any new principle of interpretation to explain the result; for this is already done, if it be supposed that the treatment to which the twig of the lingual hi subjected pro- duces some movement in the neiwe-curreut of the nerves—that this movement of the neiwe cuiTent necessitates the development of induced currents among the filaments of the sympathetic which lie in the neighbourhood of the lingual—and that these induced currents suspend the polar action of these filaments, by causing, as it were, a state of concussion, a change which wiU leave the vessel in a relaxed state ; for, absolved from the control of the nerves, the muscular elements of the vascular coats will lx* kept in a lelaxed state by their own muscular cunents. It would seem, indeed, as if the twig of the lingual suspended contraction, and produced dilatation of the vessel, in the same way as that in which the vagus has been seen to banish the state of systolic contrac- tion, and leave the heart in the state of diastolic dilatation, or in which, in Pfiuger’s experiment, the spiud cord or grand sympathetic may banish contraction, and leave the intestine in the state of dilatation.’*264 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY No doubt, the increased afflux of blood to a part, which results from paralysis of the sympa- thetic (as you have seen in the rabbit’s ear), is followed by a more active nutrition of that part; but I cannot agree with Dr. Brown- S^quard, that this active nutrition “ produces an increase in the normal suction 'power of the capil- laries,” and is “a cause of attraction of arterial blood.” The term “attraction” appears to me to be here inadmissible; the increased chemical changes of secretion and nutrition are at first the effect, and afterwards the cause of a greater accumula- tion of blood in the part; but this augmentation of the amount of blood, depending as it does mainly on the paralysis of the vessels, is of too passive a character to be attributed to attraction in the ordinary sense of this term, while suction power almost implies the active dilatation to which I have already objected. I am not aware that any one single instance of an organic attrac- tion between minute parts has been actually observed. Mliller, in his investigations, failed to perceive any ; yet it is certain that the tissues and the glands have the power of drawing from the blood the material for their nutriment and for their secretions. But it must be rememberedAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 265 that this sort of attraction, if it be so named, is something quite difierent from what Prochaska speaks of, when writing of the action of the nerves on the vessels. The conjecture of this eminent physiologist was, that the “ I'is nervosa, increased by a stimulus, renders the force of attraction of the fluids circulating through the vessels greater; so that by this means the fluids ■ are attracted from every side t<^ the centre of stimulation—as occurs, for example, when seal- ing wax is gently rubbed on a piece of cloth, and made electrical, and attracts sand and various particles.” Perhaps it would l:)e wise for me not to object to a term which has been so generally used by the most thoughtful physiologists, yet I must say that in the present state of knowledge, the phrase, attraction of blood by the tissues, gives a wrong impression of that vital aflinity of which we have evidence in the mutual but unex- plained relation existing between the blood and its vessels, and their surrounding tissues. However divergent and various may be the theoretic views arising from the facts which I have detailed, and the experiments which you have witnessed, no one can doulit that recent researches on the vaso-motor nerve-trunks, as 18*LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 266 regulating contraction and dilatation of blood- vessels, have thrown a flood of light upon many- obscure questions regarding pathology and dis- ease. Not only have we an explanation of the well-ascertained “ uhi stimulus, ihi jiuxus ’* tlu’ough the vaso-motor nerves, but we find, through the same channel, a physical explanation of sympathetic and reflex actions afiecting remote parts of the body. Nervous influences, similar to those which, acting transiently, “ call to the cheek Tlie hot blush of shame or the coldness of fear,” acting continuously for a longer period, must give lise to hypertrophy or atrophy, according as the vessels are persistently dilated or contracted. You saw how the cold acting on my right hand was followed by a reflex contraction of the blood- vessels of my left, and consequent loss of heat in it. The converse is illustrated by the enlarging uterus of pregnancy, causing the sympathetic turgescence, and, so to speak, hypertrophy of the mammary gland. But the truth is, that in adducing instances of reflex sympathies existing between remote parts, one is hampered by an “ emharras de richesse.” We see examples on every side ; nor is there any267 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. novelty in the matter, for long ago Robert Wliytt, Prochaska, and others (who, it must be admitted, were men much in advance of their time as phy- siologists), showed by their writings that they had a very comprehensive knowledge of this vastly important subject, and their \dews received an amazing development by the labours of Mayo, Marshall Hall, etc. It is in the physical explan- ation of many reflex phenomena through the action of the vaso-motor nerves, that there lies the real merit of the investigations of modern physiologists. It is in the fact that the presiding influence of this portion of the nervous system over the vessels may give rise, by reflex action, to inflammation and to those changes in nutrition (sometimes augmenting, sometimes diminishing it) which are so closely akin to the inflammatory process. In the practical application of the study of reflex phenomena to the investigation of disease, there has assuredly been no physician who has done more than our own illustrious Graves. One cannot now read the lectures of this accomplished teacher without fancying with what delight, were he still among us, he would watch the progress of modern science day by day illuminating theLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 268 doctrines which his genius led him to adopt, while they were as yet veiled in comparative obscurity. I would strongly urge, gentlemen, that while the experiments which you have witnessed, and the researches of which I have spoken are still fresh in your minds, you should peruse and reflect upon those lectures in Dr. Graves’ Clinical Medicine, in which he treats of diseases of the nervous system. I need not occupy your time by reading extracts from a work which no doubt is, or at least ought to be, in the hands of all of you. Yet I cannot refrain from one or two short quotations : “A young gentle- man, distinguished for the extent of his classical and mathematical acquirements, and who had just succeeded in obtaining the senior moderator- ship, swallowed a small but angular jDiece 'of chicken bone. It lodged low down in the oeso- phagus, and was not pushed, by means of a probang, into the stomach until after the lapse of more than an hour. Considerable inflammation of the pharynx, oesophagus, and surrounding tis- sues was the consequence. On the third day of his illness, he got a violent, long-continued, and ague-like rigor, which terminated in a profuse perspiration, and ushered in a well-marked in-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 269 ^animation of the neck of the bladder.” . . . Again he says:—“ You all know that if a man gets a blow or cut on the forehead, which wounds or divides the frontal nerve, not only the parts which that nerve supplies become paralytic, but that also the diseased impression thus produced spreads towards the centre, afiects those nerves which anastomose with the frontal, and by means of the communication formed between the nerves of the eyeball through the lenticular ganglion, deranges the functions of the optic nerve, and causes amaurosis.” I have myself met with the foUo^ving case :— Richard White, a healthy looking, intelligent boy, between seven and eight years of age, was brought by his mother to Jervis-street Hospital, on Wednesday, 19th August. She gave the fol- lowing account of his case. On the previous Sun- day momiag, when dressing himself to go out, while putting on one of his lx)ots, his scat upset, and he feU, cutting his forehead against the corner of a fender. The cut was brought together vdth adhesive plaster. Until Tuesday the boy made no complaint, he then told his mother that the wound pained him, and he complained that he could not see rightly with the eye on the sameLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 270 side. .Tliis uaturally alarmed her, and on Wed- nesday morning she brought him to hospital. The wound was exactly one inch above the right eyebrow, and a little external to the mid- point above the brow; it was half an inch in ’length, and transverse ; it was so deep that the bone was bare at the bottom of it. The pupil of the right eye was of the same size as the other, but sluggish in its motions. The boy was blind of the right eye ; he could not see the large letters heading a newspaper ; he could distinguish the window of the room, but could not perceive the divisions between the panes. On removing the plaster, some pus escaped; the wound was gently cleansed, and a bread-and- water poultice applied. Next day the vision had somewhat improved, and on the eighth day from the accident was quite restored—the wound granulating healthily. The true account of this probably is, that a reflex irritation produces, through the vaso-motor nerves, a constriction of the vessels of the retina; and the consequence of this diminished supply of blood is that the functions of the retina are interfered with, and amaurosis results. A gentle pressure maintained for a few minutes on the271 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. side of the eyeball, as any of ypu may soon satisfy yourselves, produces such a disturbance of the flow of blood to the retina, that the power of \*ision is lost, but returns at once on removing the pressure. I at one time thought that the pressure on the eyebsdl prevented the hflflux of arterial blood, and thus paralyzed the retina ; but it is not so. I have submitted my owm eye to examination with the ophthalmoscope under these circumstances, and have examined in return the eye of a scientific friend who was wOling to submit to the experiment. We were both satis- fied that the pre.ssure produced great venous con- gestion of the retina, and that the circulation was retarded by obstruction on the venous side—the eyeball being pressed backwards upon the oph- thalmic vein. The so-called %dcarious fluxes which take the place of the menstrual discharge, must be the result of a vascular turgescence produced in a remote part by a reflex irritation starting from the uterine system. Urticaria, connected wdth uterine disturbance, is by no means uncommon. I have known a lady for a considerable time pre- vented from going into society on account of the sudden appearance of blotches of urticaria, con-272 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY nected with dysmenorrhcea. Since the uterine functions have been set right, the urticaria has ceased to appear. A young woman, a nurse in one of our large hospitals, was for some years under my observa- tion. She suffered at times most severely from attacks of spasmodic asthma. These attacks in- variably took place at the menstrual period ; and if cold or any such cause produced a derange- ment of the uterine functions, an attack never failed to supervene at that time. I know a gen- tleman, a medical man, who suffers from neu- ralgia of the face. When labouring under an attack, the side affected becomes swelled, and, as the old writers say, “ the diseased part sweats." Sir B. Brodie mentions a case of inflammation of the testicle, due to the irritation of the ureter by a calculus. I received from a patient, the day before yesterday, a small calculus, which the previous night had been discharged from the urethra. This individual had had pains in the testicles, and an enlargement of one of them. This took place at a time when his symptoms induced me to believe that the small stone in question was iu its passage from the kidney to the bladder. Sir J. Paget, in his admir-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 273 able Lectures on Infiammation, says that it is through nervous action that the urethra excites inflammation of the testicle. The metastasis of “ mumps " from the parotid to the testis, is better explained by the same notion, than by any humoral theory. Changes in nutrition, brought about by reflex action, cannot, then, but be re- garded as among the most frequent causes of disease. “ An irritation starts,” says Brown- S^quard, “ from an excitable part of a nerve; it reaches the nervous centres, and thence being reflected to a more or less distant part of the body, it produces either a contraction of a blood- vessel, or, thi’ough this, eflects a diminution of nutrition; or it acts directly upon the tissues, and produces an alteration of the interchanges be- tween them and the blood.” How important is it then for the discriminating practitioner dili- gently to make search for the starting-point of the irritation. How gratifjdng for him to bring about a prompt cure, as in Dr. Hutton’s well- known case of reflex paraplegia, mentioned in Graves’ Clinical Medicine ;—“ A very remark- able amendment took place in his back and lower extremities in a very few days after the first in- troduction of the catheter; in fact it was almost274 LECTUEES ON PHYSIOLOGY sudden. Warm baths, friction to his limbs, etc., completed his cure. He was discharged on the 25th February, at which time the power of his lower limbs was perfectly restored, and the symptoms affecting the urinary system had dis- appeared. ” I have elsewhere drawn your attention to the reflex influence of extensive burns. The observa- tions of Mr. Long, of Liverpool, of Mr. Curling, in his paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, on the influence of burns on the bowels, and especially of Mr. Erichsen, leave no doubt upon that subject. The last-named author gives the following results as succeeding extensive burns :— Cases. Aflections of the cerebral organs in 33 out of 37 „ of the thoracic viscera „ 30 „ 40 „ of the abdominal viscera,, 31 „ 42 A modification of nutrition, consequent on ex- tensive burn, yet producing very happy results, is mentioned by Dr. Stokes. “ A lady,” says this able physician, “who had laboured under ovarian disease, vdth severe symptoms of chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestines, as evinced by diarrhoea, bloody stools,275 APPLIED TO PEA.CTICE. tenderness of the abdomen, and emaciation, was severely burned, in consequence of her clothes taking fire. The neck, arms, and throat were the .seats of the injur)". On recovering from this accident, the greatest improvement l>ecame mani- fest in her general health. The bowels became regular, nutrition went on, the ovarian enlarge- ment subsided greatly, and the patient has since enjoyed a state of goo<.l health, which could never have l)een anticipated.” The modifications of nutrition brought about by reflex influences acting on the vessels through the vivso-motor nerves, give, at least in many cases, a satisfactory explanation of the inodiui operandi of counter-irritants, and the so-called “ exterior derivatives,” the therapeutic application of which has been so long known, and .so univer- •sally acknowledged as of the greatest value. But of all the organs in the body, the eye is that which gives the most palpable and the most unequivocal evidence of the influence of this kind of reflex action; and, I may add, N^dth reference to this important organ, that a just appreciation of this peculiar sympathetic influence has given rise to what I cannot help considering as one of the greatest improvements of which modemLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 276 surgery can boast. When one eye is lost by an injury, such as laceration of the cornea by a por- tion of stone, glass, a piece of a cap off a gun, or some such foreign body, which becomes lodged in the deeper parts of the eye, the chronic inflamma- tion which is set up as the consequence of the accident, sooner or later, by reflex sympathy, produces an inflammation of the other eye, and it is seriously jeopardised or lost, unless saved by a timely extirpation of that from which the irrita- tion primarily springs. I have asked a distin- guished surgeon, whose experience upon this subject has been very great, whether in such cases it would not be sufficient to remove part of the injured eyeball: he answered, no—when an eyeball has been for some time in a state of in- flammation, the other eye will lie endangered if any part be left to keep up the sympathetic irri- tation. In children, how many and various are the symptoms arising from the irritation of dentition —from the irritability of the urinary system, so common that it may be ahnost considered as the normal condition of teething infants, to the con- vulsion which, if it spares the life, may leave a brain the nutrition of which has been so muchAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 277 disturbed, that imbecility or idiocy are too fre- quently the melancholy result 1 What endless forms of disease are due to the reflected results of gastro-intestinal irritation, worms, etc.? LECTURE III. ON THE FUNCTIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD AND MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Gentlemen, In this and the following lecture, it is my in- tention to enter upon a critical analysis of the recent investigations of physiologists concerning the functions of the spinal cord and medulla ob- longata. I shall to-day direct your attention especially to the discovenes of Brown-S6quard, and to his views concerning the tninsmission of sensitive impreasions, and of the commands of the will to the muscles through the medulla spinalis and oblongata. Since the year 1838, this physio- logist has devoted all the time he could to the study of many important questions connected with the functions of the nervous centres ; and his labors, as I believe, have been cro^vned with the most signal success; nevertheless, gentlemen, the278 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY amazing intricacies and difficulties which surround the subject, make it necessary that we should ex- amine with the greatest possible care the facts and experiments upon which hi^ theories are based. I shall hope to show you before the end of this lecture, not only some of the fundamental ex- periments from which the deductions of Brown- S^quard are cbawn, but also that his researches have been tested by myself and others, by a most rigidly exact process. I shall exhibit to you the spinal cords of animals upon which Brown-S^quard operated in this theatre about two years ago. Some of those present witnessed the experiments to which I allude, and had an opportunity of ob- serving the symptoms which I noted at the time, and afterwards connected with the precise lesion of the cord, when this organ had been rendered hard by immersion in spirit. Let me remind you that, until quite recently, since the researches of Brown-S^quard, Lockhart Clarke, and others, have changed our views, there were two rival theories regarding the func- tions of the spinal marrow: one, that of Sir Charles Bell, as modified by Longet; the other, that of Van Deen, adopted with some modifica- tion by Valentine, Stilling, and others. Accord-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 279 ing to the tbeor}’ of Bell and Longet, the posterior columns were centripetal conductors, conveying on to the brain the sensitive impres- sions brought in by the corresponding posterior nerve-roots; the anterior and lateral columns were centrifugal conductors, conveying from the brain to the anterior or motor nerve-roots the commands of the will thus to Ije transmitted to the muscles ; while the grey matter of the cord was supposed to be solely the dynamical or force- generating portion, taking no j>art in the con- ducting of neurility, either sensitive or motor. Van Deen, on the other hand, and the others whom I have named, all atjreed in assiffuino; to the gi-ey matter the function of conducting impressions, Stilling, to whose re.searches in anatomy, physiology, and pathology we owe so much, held that sensitive impressions were con- veyed to the lirain ciiietly through the posterior half of the grey matter of the spinal medulla. Let us now see how far experimental research has Ijeeu able to throw light on this (piestion. Tt would not be possible for me to show in a lecture-room all the experiments by which Brown- S<5quard hopes to prove his two main proposi- tions ; first, that the transmission of sensitive 19LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 280 impressions in the spinal cord takes place chiefly in its central part, i.e. in the grey matter, and second, that the conductors of sensitive impres- sions from the various parts of the body decussate in the spinal cord and not in the encephalon, as hitherto generally supposed. For the first, I must be content to show tlie spinal cords (now hardened in spirit) of animals previously made the subject of experiment, and in which the symptoms consequent upon the lesion were noted during life; of the second, I think I may promise to show you what you will all admit to be strong experimental proof. Here is the spinal cord of a rabbit, in which, as you see, the posterior columns have been transversely divided with the greatest possible precision, and what was the result ? Far from being followed by any loss of feeling, the lesion was accompanied by the very reverse effect. So far as the posterior columns are concerned, this single experiment annihilates the theory of Longet. “ If,” says Dr. Brown-S^quard, “ the transmis- sion of sensitive impressions does not take place along the posterior columns, it remains to be found what is the channel of tlieii’ transmission'{ ” In attempting to give an answer to this ques-281 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. tion, he has undertaken some experiments of extreme delicacy. On dividing the anterior columns of the cord alone, he has not found any marked alteration of sensibility ; division of the lateral columns in the dorsiil regions he has found not to diminish but to exalt sensibility in the posterior limbs ; but when the entire cord is divided, except one lateral column, sensitive im- pressions are no longer transmitted. I will admit that there is great difficulty in feeling quite satisfied as to deductions drawn from experiments necessarily of so delicate a nature; when we come, however, to compare them .with the pathology of cases presently to be referred to, we find strong evidence in favour of the \-iew that sensitive impre.ssions in the spinal cord pass chiefly along the grey substance. The proposition next for consideration, viz., that the conductors of sensitive impressions from the va- rious parts of the body decussate in the spinal cord and not in the encephalon, as hitherto generally supposed, constitutes not only one of the most brilliant, but one of the most clearly proved of the discoveries of Dr. Brown-S(5quard. First Experiment.—In this guinea-pig I have divided in the lower part of the dorsal region a 19*282 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY lateral half of the spinal cord. From the result produced, I have no doubt that the division has been made with tolerable precision. The right lateral half of the cord has been divided, and you perceive the following symp- toms :— Left hind limb (uninjured side). Colder than its fellow. Almost insensible. Not paralyzed of move- ment. Right hind limb (side of lesion). Hotter than its fellow. Very sensitive. Paralyzed of movement. In this other guinea-pig upon which I have about three weeks ago made a similar division of a lateral half of the spinal cord, you see that recovery has, in a great degree, taken place. The animal is becoming subject to fits of an epileptic character, as a result of this injury; but I shall, at a subsecpient period, when the epileptiform affection has become more developed, direct yoirr attention to this subject. At present let us con- fine ourselves to the facts, that when half the spinal cord is cut across on either side, the hind les on the side of the section, far from becoming insensible, feels acutely; the opposite side losing all sensibility.APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 283 Second Experiment.—In this rabbit the result is more striking than in the guinea-pig. I have here dmded, also, the right lateral half of the cord in the lower part of the dorsal region. You see how marked are the effects in this animal. Left hind limh (uninjured side). Colder than its fellow. Perfectly insensible. Pow’er of movement continues. Right hind limb (side of lesion). Distinctly hotter than its fellow. Ver}’- sensitive. Power of movement lost. You see that the right hind limb is so very sensi- tive, that, when pinched, the animal gives signs of feeling, even much more acute than these passive creatures usually do when in the natural state. The increase of warmth on the side of the le- sion is quite unmistakably evident to the hand, and the paralysis of movement is equally obvious. Here are the spinal cords of two rabbits up- on which Brown-St^quard himself operated; as I have already said in this theatre, they have been hardened in spirit, so as to enable one to make a careful inspection of the lesion; during life the symptoms were exactly what you see in284 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY this rabbit upon which I have operated ; the in- jury, as you observe, in both these specimens engages just one-half of the cord, and you can see by the ribs here remaining, that the upper part of the lumbar region was the seat of opera- tion. These facts alone are sufficient to prove that sensitive impressions starting from one limb, sup- pose the right, are propagated upwards to the sensorium along the opposite side of the cord (the left)—in other words, that a decussion takes place. But Brown-S^cpiard does not rest satisfied with- out further proof, for he finds that after hav- ing made first a section of a lateral half of the spinal cord in the dorsal region on the right side, and after having ascertained that the right poste- * rior limb is quite sensitive when the left lateral half of the spinal cord is divided in the cervical region, then the right posterior limb loses its sen- sibility. This experiment shows that the sensi- tive impressions coming along the cord, had first crossed to the other side of the spinal cord, along which they were transmitted until interrupted by the second section in the ceiwical region. He has also performed the following delicate experiment: The spinal cord is laid bare in the whole lum-285 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. bar region, and a careful dmsion of the entire extent of the part of the organ giving origin to the nerves of the posterior limbs, is made directly along the middle line, so as to separate the two lateral halves of the organ one from the other. If this experiment could be executed perfectly, nothing would be di\ ided in the cord except the commissures which unite the right and left sides, and all the longitudinal elements of this centre would be left uninjured; but it is impossible not to cut more or less on either side. However, when the operation has succeeded well, i.e., when the two lateral halves have been very little injured, a striking result is obtained. Voluntarj' move- ment still exists in the hind limbs, but sensibility is entirely lost in them. The animal has the use of his two hind limbs ; he moves about pretty freely. The loss of sensibility, therefore, must depend on the division of the commissures of the spinal cord, or in other w’ords, on the elements of this organ which cross each other in the median line, or rather in the median place. If we compare the results of these experiments, and after considering the many great difficulties ali-eady spoken of, which attend all such experi- ments, we nevertheless conceive (as I myself as-286 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY suredly do) that the results may be accepted, then the inferences from them are clear and undeniable. So much so, that it is unnecessary here to point out how completely the third experiment disproves the notion of some physiologists, that the grey matter has the power of transmitting impres- sions in every direction. I purposely omit at present to speak of some of the phenomena which you have seen in these experiments to-day, viz : the increase of tempe- rature and of sensibility in the hind limbs on the same side upon which the half of the cord is divided. I shall in another lecture speak on this subject. But you see that the same experiment which shows that the conductors of sensation decussate in the spinal cord, proves also that the conductors which convey the commands of the will to muscles do not decussate in the cord. Yet from time immemorial it has been known that they do decussate somewhere; for, as you know, an apoplectic clot on one side of the brain produces paralysis of the opposite of the body; where then does the decussation of motor con- ductors take place ? Pathology leads to the answer —at the lower part of the medulla oblongata, but not extensively along the middle line of the base of the encephalon.287 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. Let me briefly remind you of the conclusions at which we have akeady arrived concerning the decussation in the cerebro-spinal centres of the conductors of sensation and of motive power. This rudely executed diagram, which I have copied from Brown-S^quard’s work, will I think very much simplify your comprehension of the matter. Let us suppose that we have here represented the medulla oblongata and spinal cord, and that we are looking at these parts from behind, so that r is the right and I the left side; let us fancy that the transverse lines at 1, 2, and 3, indicate three points at which lesions exist: 1, being a lesion w^hich engages one half of the me- dulla oblongata above the decussation of the an- terior pyramids ; 2, being just at this decussation, while 3 may represent a lesion anywhere along the cord (say in the lower part of the dorsal re- gion), and engaging one lateral half of it, as in the rabbit, which was made the subject of expe- riment during my last lecture. If a r and p r represent the anterior (motor) and the posterior (sensitive) nerve-roots, and the dotted lines their continuations to the sensorium commune, then we see that a lesion, such as 1 is supposed to indi- cate, must be accompanied by paralysis of bothLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 288 sensation and motion on the opposite side, and we know that so it is. the symptoms which you saw produced in the guinea-pig, and more markedly in the rabbit ex- perimented upon, viz.: loss of power of motion on the injured side, loss of sensation on the oj^posite one. Direct experiment seems to have placed it beyond all doubt that those nerve- fibres which are ordinarily regarded as the con- ductors of sensation, cross from one side to the other in the spinal cord itself. But is it so for the conductor of all kinds of sensation”? This question cannot, 1 think, at present be answered. Let us now see how far the notions I have been speaking of receive corroboration from patho- logical facts; and first let us inquii’e does patho- logical investigation support the view that the A lesion such as we fan- cied to be indicated at 2, must be attended with par- alysis of motion on both sides, but of sensation only on that opposite to the side of the lesion ; while an in- jury such as we suppose to exist at 3, is followed by289 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. grey matter of the cord performs the function of conducting impressions ? In answer to this in- quiry I quote two cases from among many less striking. Case 1.*—Dr. Hutton exhibited a specimen of softening of the spinal-marrow. It occurred in a sailor, aged thirty-six, of regular habits, who left Lisbon in tolerable health, on the 3rd of Novem- ber, in a small vessel laden with fruit. On the 7th, a storm arose, which continued three days, and during this time he was obliged to remain on deck, exposed to cold and wet, and exhausted with fatigue. On the 10th the storm ceased, and that night on going to his berth he was seized with severe pain in the lumbar region. This continued for about an hour, when he feU asleep. On the following morning he was surprised to find his limbs numb and jx)werless, and that .he was unable to pass water. The captain gave him some purgative medicine, which acted freely, but his motions escaped without his knowdedge or control. On the 14th the abdomen was observ- ed to be greatly distended, and the urine began to dribble aw^ay slowly. In this helpless situation * Proceedings of the Pathological Society of Dublin, 13th December, 1845.290 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY he remained until the arrival of the vessel in Dublin, on the 25th of November, when he was conveyed on a pallet to the Richmond Hospital. The following observations were then made. His complexion was sallow, and his expression of countenance dejected and anxious; the extremi- ties were cold, the pulse sixty, and very feeble; voice faint; tongue dry and furred, with a red margin ; thirst excessive ; respiration natural; the abdomen was very prominent, and the outline of the over-distended bladder could be distinctly seen extending to the umbilicus; the prepuce was excoriated from the constant dribbling of the urine, which flowed in a stream when pressure was made on the abdomen. It was of a dark colour, and had an ammoniacal odour. The faeces passed involuntarily; there was complete paralysis of the lower extremities, ivith loss of sensation to the level of the umbilicus. A large slough, about five inches in diameter, covered the left trochanter. No reflex action could be excited in the paralyzed limbs, which were passive and flaccid. The patient complained chiefly of weakness, and a sense of constriction and pain at the precordia. The treatment, which was directed to the raising of the vital powers, was of no avail. The catheterAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 291 was passed frequently, the secretion of urine being excessive. These symptoms continued with little variation till the 30th of November, when he was seized with vomiting, and discharged some blood from the stomach ; a considerable quantity also escaped with the urine. On the following day the pulse could scarcely be felt, and mucus began to collect in the bron- chial tubes. He died the next day, 2nd Decem- ber. At the autopsy the following morbid appear- ances were observed :—The spinous processes and laminm being removed, the theca vertebralis was found to contain between two and three drachms of serum, slightly tinged with blood; but the membranes pre.sented no appearances of inflam- mation ; the medulla spinalis seemed healthy externally; when, however, it was laid open by a longitudinal incision, its central portion was found quite softened and pulpy, from its lower extremity to the third or fourth dorsal vertebra—here the morbid condition terminated. The softening was most extensive at the lower part, and was observ- ed throughout the whole of the tract indicated. The bladder was much enlarged, and its internal surface exhibited signs of intense inflammation.292 LECTURES OX PHYSIOLOGY The kidneys were very much congested, and in the pelvis of these glands particles of lymph were found mixed with blood-tinged urine. There was also considerable congestion of the liver ; the other viscera were healthy. It seemed to Dr. Hutton worthy of observation that although this patient lived twenty-two days from his first seizure, yet the paralysis seemed to have been complete in less than twelve hours. .... The membranes of the spinal-cord presented no appear- ance of previous inflammation, nor did the patient complain at any period of that rigidity of the mus- cles of the back and lower extremities, said by Ollivier and other writers to indicate this con- dition of spinal disease. The loss both of sensation and motion in connection with softening of the central jwi'tion of the spinal-marrow, whilst the external surface of the cord indicated no disease, is loorthy of observation. With respect to the urinary organs, it is to be remarked that the kidneys presented signs of in- flammation as well as the bladder. The inflam- mation of the latter viscus, in cases of diseased spine, has been attributed to the irritation of re- tained and altered urine. Dr. Hutton believed it had some influence; but having observed in one293 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. or two cases that the disorganisation of the blad- der, and the tendency to slough in the paralyzed limbs, occurred nearly at the same time, he was inclined to regard the affection as mainly depend- ing on the impaired or interrupted innervation. The respiration in this case was not sensibly affect- ed until the last day or two of his life, although the softening of the medulla extended to the fourth dorsal vertebra. Case 2.*—A man aged forty-four, after hav- ing had cramps, formication, and weakness in the lower limbs, and paralysis of the upper limbs, for a long period, was admitted at La Charite. Sen- sibility existed everywhere. On the evening of November 1st he was able to walk, but aided by some one. Sensibility continued cver}’where to the last moment before his death, on the 3rd of November, at 3 a.m. Autopsy.—Encephalon normal. There was induration of the spinal cord from its upper extremity to the third dorsal vertebra, and from the sixth dorsal to the lower extremity. The tissue of the cord in these parts being cut, was * LaboulbSne iu the Menutirea dt la Societi de Biologie, 1855, p. 2-33 ; and Dr. Browu-S6quard’a Lecturea on the Central Ner- vous System, p. 82.294 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY shining, looking like porcelain, hard and difficult to be crushed. The grey matter was also a little harder than normally, but of its usual colour. The anterior and posterior roots seemed normal. In the space between the third and sixth dorsal vertebrae the cord was softened, pultaceous, re- sembling a whitish or rather slightly rose pulp punctated in some places. "When placed in water, many parts became disintegrated, and formed a kind of emulsion. This alteration existed only in the white substance. The grey matter, on the contrary, seemed to have preserved its normal consistence. The microscope showed that the grey matter in both the softened and indurated parts contained normal cells and fibres, and nor- mal blood-vessels, while the white substance in the softened region contained but rare fibres, which were altered, containing an oily matter and granulations. There was also a quantity of granu- lated corpuscles of inflammation, with many capillaries, oily drops, and amorphous matter in the indurated white substance : there was less alteration, and the fibres were more normal and numerous. The author of the report of this case adds, that he has ascertained that sensibility to pinching.APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 295 pricking, touching, tickling, feeling of heat and cold, and that due to the muscular spasm caused by galvanism persisted in this patient, although the white matter, i.e., the posterior and antero- lateral columns had but few and altered fibres remaining. Now, if we set side by side the prominent fea- tures of these two cases, which have the advantage of ha^dng b(‘en reported by individuals entirely free from the bias of any preconceived theories upon the subject, we find ;— In D)\ Hutton's Case. 1 Complete paralysis of motion. 2 Complete loss of sen- sibility. 3 “ Softening of the cen- tral portion of the | spinal marrow.” I In M. Lahoulbene's Case. 1 Impairment of power of movement. 2 Sensibility continu- ing. 3 Softening of the cor- tical portion of tlie cord. I feel justified, therefore, in concluding from these cases, that pathology adds weighty testi- mony in favour of the view which, as we have seen, anatomy and experimental physiology give evidence in support of, vix., that impressions arc 80296 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY conducted along tlie grey matter of the spinal medulla. What says pathology concerning the decussa- tion in the cord of the conductors of sensitive impressions, and of the fibres conveying the im- pulses of the will to muscles In answer to this inquiry, also, I shall lay before you two cases. Case 3. * — A drummer of the National Guard of Paris had a quarrel with one of his comrades, who was drunk, and who not beinsr able to reach him, flung his sabre at him from a considerable distance, just as he was retreating and had his back towards his antagonist. The point of the instrument reached the upper and back part of the neck. The wounded man at once felt his legs give way under him and fell. He was conveyed next day to the hospital of La Charity. The wound, the borders of which were a little contused, was about two inches in extent; it was situated immediately below the occiput, in the upper and back part of the neck and on the right side. The finger could neither discover the depth of it nor penetrate to the vertebral column. The right arm had lost its power of movement, but preserved its sensibility. The * Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tom. viL, p. 9.297 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. right leg seemed somewhat weakened, but was normally sensitive. There was slight difficulty in breathing; pulse frequent, strong and full. He was bled, etc. On the fourth day the weak- ness of the right leg had entirely disappeared ; the patient was able to make some slight motion of extension of the forearm, but could not spon- taneously make an attempt at restoring it to the state of flexion. On the thirteenth day the patient had recov- ered his strength and his appetite—he got u]> and walked; but the paralysis of the upper ex- tremity was the same. When playing tricks mth a wardsman who pinched him, he per- ceived that tlie left side of the body was insensi- ble. He told me of it the next day, and I obser\’-ed the following phenomena :—The left lower limb and the left side of the tnink were of the ordinary size, and possesvsed their power of movement and their usual agility ; but the skin of all these parts might be pinched, pricked, and even cut without the patient feeling it or giving the least sign of pain ; pins were stuck in to the depth of three or four lines, and when his head was turned away the man did not perceive it. However, extensive contact, as the ai>plication of298 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY the hand laid on flat and moved over the surface, gave rise to a sort of sensation, but very slight and obscure. This insensibility existed in the entire extent of the left foot, leg, and thigh ; it was equally complete over the left side of the abdomen, but it ceased abruptly in front and be- hind, at the middle line—with this remarkable peculiarity, that in this locality, if the patient was pinched on the left side, he asserted that he felt a sensation, though feebly, at a corresponding point on the right side. A similar demarcation between the right and left side extended to the skin of the penis and scrotum. The insensibility was complete up to the left side of the base of the thorax; l3ut at a little higher level an obscure sensation began to be perceived, which became more distinct higher up, so that at the level of the fourth rib the skin had natural sensibility. The left limb was in a perfectly natural con- dition. Twenty days after his accident this man left the hospital ciu-ed of the wound in his neck, and having no pain or uneasiness in this part; but the right arm, forearm, and hand were almost completely paralyzed, and the left side of the body, excepting the upper limb, were in the state of insensibility Avhich has just been de-299 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. scribed. Some months after he revisited the hospital; his condition was little changed. The situation of the wound, and the sjTnptoms with which it was accompanied, induced one to believe that the spinal marrow had been engaged, but it must have been but superficially. Case 4.*—A man, after having felt a sudden pain in his back, became incompletely paralyzed of voluntary movement in the right loAver limb. Sensibility was not altered in this limb; but in the left side, where voluntary movements were not impaired, sensibility was entirely lost, from the breast to the foot. Autopsy :—Brain and its membranes normal. In the spinal cord a hmmorrhage had taken place, and blood was found in the right side of the grey matter, having destroyed also its horns and a part of the right anterior column in the dorsal region. This is a very remarkable case, teaching not only that there is a decussation of the conductors of sensitive impressions in the spinal cord, but also that the grey matter is the principal channel for these impressions. * Monod. Bulletin de la Soaete Anatomique, No. xviii. p. 349 ; and Browu-Sequard On the Central Nervous Htfstem, p. 96. Also quoted by OUivier.LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 300 The cases which I have now brought forward speak for themselves so plainly that it is not necessary to add any commentary upon them. 1 would merely say that the value of the evidence they afford, in favor of the views I have been attempting to explain, is greatly enhanced by the fiict, that they have been recorded by persons who cannot possibly be suspected of having had any other intention than that of giving the simple and truthful report of what they had observed. LECTUKE IV. EXPLANATION OF THE HYPERyESTIIESIA RESULTING FROM A DIVISION OF A LATERAL HALF OF THE CORD—OF THE SENSATION ACCOMPANYING MUSCULAR CONTRACTION, AND THE PAIN IN CRAMP, SPASM, ETC.—OF THE ARTI- FICIAL PRODUCTION AND ETIOLOGY OF EPILEPSY IN ANIMALS. Gentlemen, You have already seen, as the result of the experiments performed in my last lecture, that division of a lateral half of the spinal cord is followed, among other symptoms, by an increase of sensibility on the same side as the section. This rabbit (the same operated upon on the formerAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 301 occasion) still exliibits very strikingly this h}’per- sesthesia. You remember that half the spinal cord lias been divided on the right side, and you per- ceive that wliile the left hind leg is insensible, it is quite obvious that the right feds much more acutely than in an animal which had not been operated upon at all. Now, what is to be consi- dered as the true cause of this increase of sensibil- ity, which thus results from the division of a lateral half of the spinal marrow, and which we obser\’e to take place on the same side as the lesion, or which occurs in both hind limbs after section of the posterior columns of the cord ? Wagner has long since pointed out that in approaching their various destinations, the nerv’e fibres divide and suMivide ; these subdivisions with the minute ganglia and oval nuclei, which have been described in dift’erent localities and textures by Bidder, Rosenbei-ger, ^leissner, Beale, Auerbach, and others, constitute what is known as the peripheral expansion of the neivous sys- tem. Tills circumferential portion, if all aggre- gated into one mass, would probably equal or even exceed in bulk the central masses—the brain and cord. H\*peraesthesia (or at least such exaltation of sensibility as we can discover inLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 302 animals l)y pricking, pinching, etc.) seems to re- sult from two distinct conditions, viz., either from increased vascularity of the circumferential por- tion, or of j)ortions of the cerehro-spinal centres. Of the first we have a familiar example in the increased, sensitiveness of the surface following the application of a sinapism. The increased vascularity of the surface produces an exaltation of sensibility in the circumferential parts of the neiwe ramifications, as any of you may readily satisfy yourselves by placing a mustard poultice for a few minutes on the front of the forearm, and then making a comparison between the rela- tive sensibility of it and the opposite one, by gently nipping or pricking the surface of each. But, again, you know that hyperaesthesia of the surface sometimes occurs as a consequence of a condition the very reverse of that just mentioned; it is the result of inflammation or increased vascularity of the centres. You have, no doubt, observed the great tenderness of surface which, especially in children, forms so striking a symp- tom of cerebro-spinal meningitis ; you have seen how the patient whimpers and cries out when the finger is ever so lightly passed over the surface —how, sometimes, the pressure even of the bed-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 303 clothes, is insiifFerable. Sometimes after injuries to the spine, the surface, even in a few minutes, becomes so exquisitely sensitive, that the slightest touch is productive of intense agony.* We have abeady seen that when the sympa- thetic nerve is dmded in the neck of a rabbit, the ear on the same side becomes warmer, more vascular, and more sensitive than the other ; and we have found that the same phenomena, as to increase of heat and sensibility, are met vdth on the same side as the section, in the posterior limb after division of a lateral half of the spinal cord. We are therefore at first naturally led to suppose that in each experiment the vaso-motor nerve- fibres being divided, and the blood-vessels para- lyzed, the increased vascularity consequent upon this gives ri.se to the increase of sensibility. An exceedingly interesting experiment of Dr. Brown-Sdquard, proves that in the latter instance, at all events, there is another cause for the hyper- sesthesia to be sought for. In his paper, entitled “ Experimental Researches on Various Questions Concerning Sensibility,” read before the Royal Society, in May, 1860, he says that in a rabbit, in * See a case reported by Dillon Kelly, Esq., in The Dublin Hospital Gazette^ 18fi4, p. 103.304 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY which all the parts of one of its hind limbs were amputated except the nerves, and in which the toes are, after a time, about losing their sensibility, in consequence of all circulation of blood being at an end in the limb, there is, nevertheless, a rapid and very notable return of sensibility on dividing the posterior columns of the spinal cord in the dorsal region. It is obvious that this return of sensibility cannot be due to any cause connected with the vessels of the partially amputated limb ; we must attribute it rather to the increased vascu- larity of the spinal cord, which must, more or less extensively, result from the injury done to it. So it would appear that after division of a lateral half of the spinal cord, the increased vascularity which unavoidably attends such an experiment may in some degree account for the hypercesthesia in question. It must, however, be admitted that it is not an easy matter to give an altogether satis- factory explanation of the remarkable increase of sensibility resulting from a division of the lateral half of the spinal cord; yet it seems very reasonable to suppose that any cause producing increase of vascularity of the central or aggregated, or of the peripheral or diffused portions of the nervous tree, may exalt the functions—on the one hand, of305 APPLIED TO PEACTICE. appreciating, on the other, of recehnng, sensitive impressions. Let us now, gentlemen, consider a diflerent sub- ject. You are all aware that in the normal state of things muscular contraction is not accompanied by pain; the contraction of the heart and the peristaltic action of the intestine, etc., is usually unperceived, but the contraction of the voluntary muscles is accompanied by a peculiar sensation, which has been even regarded by some as a distinct sense—the muscular sense. This muscular sense, or the sense which appreciates weight, is not only ver}’ delicate, but, as ever)" one knows, is capable of being educated or improved to a great pitch of perfection. It is by its help that we almost unconsciously guide our movements and perform many mani- pulations. When in certain pathological cases this sense is lost the result is curious. The guiding j)Ower is also lost unless another sense—sight— comes to the aid of the muscles. A mother, para- lyzed of sensation completely, but not of motion, in her right arm, could hold her child in that arm while she looked at it, but not otherwise. Patients similarly afi'ected can even write with the help of their eyes, but cannot attempt to form a letter, or306 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY even believe tliat the pen is in their fingers if they look away. I lately saw a very remarkable case, through the kindness of my colleague Dr. Banon, in which the woman could feed herself with her right hand, if she looked at her hand ; but if she turned away her eyes the spoon fell—she did not know whether it was in her hand or not. On the contrary, by an exaltation of this muscular sense, in certain conditions, muscular contraction be- comes frightfully painful; hence the agony which so often accompanies spasm and cramp, colic and uterine contraction. Magendie, in 1839, discovered that irritation of the anterior or motor roots of the spinal nerves causes pain; but further, that when these roots are divided, that irritation of the distal extremity only gives pain; if, then, the posterior roots of the corresponding spinal nerves be cut across, pain no longer results from the u’ritation just mentioned. On these facts Magendie founded his hypothesis of recurrent sensibility. Now, what may be the cause of the pain resulting from an irritation propagated thus centrifugally along a motor nerve, and then centripetally along a sen- sitive 1 To this question Brown-S^quard gives a most ingenious answer. Although MatteucciAPPLIED TO PRACTICE. 307 and Du Bois Eeymond differ as to the explanation of the phenomenon, yet all agree that if a so- called rheoscopic frog’s leg be prepared and laid on an insulating plate, and a second leg laid across it, so that the nerce alone of the second is in contact with the muscles of the first, a contraction pro- duced in the first leg, by galvanic or other stimu- lus is followed by a secondary or {induced?) contraction in the second, and so for three or four limbs under-favourable circumstances. This is due to some change in the galvanic state of the muscle, which, by its contraction, thus excites the ner\'e lying on it. Now Brown-S^quard supposes that this change in the galvanic state of a muscle is, in the natural condition, perceived by the sensitive ner\’es of the muscle; and the delicate perception of this galvanic change ac- companying muscular contraction, however slight, gives to us a correspondingly delicate apprecia- tion of the feeling of weight, which is one of the most striking phases of the so-called “ muscular sense.” The more ^'iolent the contraction, the more marked is the disturbance of the galvanic equilibrium, and consequently the more distinct and strong the impression conveyed to the central nervous system; normally these contractions arcLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 308 unaccompanied by pain; but if the muscular con- traction be very violent, or if the centripetal nerve of muscle be in a hypersesthetic condition, pain results, and hence the accompanying spasm and cramp. In support of this view, Brown- S^quard gives the following experiment:— “ If we fix a thread to the tendon of a muscle of a frog, and attach to this thread a weight, ca- pable of entirely preventing the contraction of the muscle, which is fixed by its other extremity, we find that every time the muscle tends to con- tract, there is an excitation of the nerve lying upon it, and a contraction of the muscle to which this nerve is distributed. Hence it is not neces- sary for the muscle to contract in order to produce in nerves in contact with it a galvanic excita- tion. I repeat that it is sufficient that they tend to contract. Now I have found that the greater the resistance to the contraction of the muscle, the greater is the galvanic excitation that it gives to nerves in contact with its tissue. On the con- trary, if there is no resistance at all, as abeady shown by Professor Matteucci, after the section of the tendon, then the galvanic excitation of the nerve in contact with the contracting muscle no longer exists.”309 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. In this manner Brown-S^quard attempts to explain, ’«dth what, as I have already said, appears to me singular ingenuity, the pain accompanying contracted muscles, cramps, spasms, contraction of the uterus, etc. Let me now show to you the experiments which seem to justify these conclusions, and which I have slightly modified in order to make them more visible to all. But, before doing so, let me offer a few obser\'ations on the subject of animal electricity—a subject which, thanks to the in- dustry of Professor Matteucci, of Pisa, and to the genius of Du Bois Reymond, of Berlin, has be- come one, not only of great interest, but vast practical importance. The history of animal electricity presents three distinct lines of research —first, that of special organs for the discharge of electricity known to exist in certain fish, com- menced by Walsh in 1772, and since followed with success by Dr. John Da\’y, Professor Fara- day, and others; second, that concerning the electrical properties of muscle and ner\’e, starting from the fundamental experiment of Galvani, in 178G, followed, or at least not lost sight of, by Humboldt, and, in these latter times, investigated with great care by Matteucci, Du Bois Reymond,LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 310 Bernard, Cliauveau, Eckhard, Dr. C. B. Ead- clifie, etc.; and, third, that of the electrical con- ditions of membranes, glands, and blood, intro- duced by Downe, pursued by Wallaston, Young, and Baxter. In investigating the phenomena of disease accompanied by convulsion, spasm, or cramp, it is obviously the second that chiefly must engage our attention; and, thanks to the ingenuity of those who have laboured in this field of discovery, the laws connected with the electrical properties of nerve and muscle are now pretty distinctly formularized. First Experiment.—The galvanometer on the table, which is a tolerably delicate one, is con- nected by wires with zinc troughs, which, as you see, are filled with a saturated solution of sulphate of zinc. Over the edge of the troughs are laid pads of blotting paper, which dip into the solution; and you observe that when I bridge over the interval from one vessel to the other, by laying on this cushion of blot- ting paper, wet in the solution, the needle of the galvanometer does not move in the least; the arrangement is therefore ready for experi- ment. If, instead of the cushion of wet blot-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 311 ting paper, I place between the pads a portion of muscle, so that the transverse section of it touches one pad (a), and the outside of the muscle, that is its longitudinal section, touches the other—then, <is you now see, the needle is strongly deflected, and indicates a current pass- ing from the transverse towards the longitudinal part of the muscle (in the direction of the arrow). Now, to make certain that our experiment is really successful, let me reverse the portion of muscle on the pads, and after allowing the needle to come to re.st, see what effect is produced. You see it again moves nearly 20°, but in the opposite direction from the former experiment. Although I have used the gastrocnemius muscle of a frog to show you this muscular current, you must not suppose that it is confined to the muscle of any one animal. Du Boi.s Rejinond ha.s ol)serv'ed the current between the longitudinal and transverse sections in the muscles of man (muscles of an amputated leg), in thase also of the rabbit, guinea-pig, mouse, pigeon, sparrow, tortoise, lizard, adder, slow-worm, frog, toad, salamander, tench, etc. Second Experiment.—I have here the gastroc- 21LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 312 nemius muscle of a frog, with a long portion of its nerve still attached to it. I next lay this muscle on the pads, so as to include it in the circuit of the galvanometer; but I take care to lay the nerve on this piece of glass, quite out of the circuit, in such a position that I can easily pass through it a rapid succession of shocks from this induction coil, and so strongly tetanizc the muscle. Before I touch the nerve with the wires from the induction coil, you see that the mus- cular current causes the needle to stand at 8°; now I touch the neiwe, and consequently tetanize the muscle; you see the needle comes to 0, and even swings across on the other side. This, gen- tlemen, is one of Du Bois Reymond’s most beau- tiful experiments, and it proves the very impor- tant fact that the muscular current is weakened during contraction. Bearing in mind the foregoing, we now find ourselves in a predicament to perform and under- stand the ingenious experiment devised by Brown- S^quard, and akeady spoken of in reference to his theory as to the muscular sense. Third Experiment.—I have here fastened the limb of a frog, prepared with the nerve as long as possible, to an upright rod; a weight is at-313 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. taclied to the foot, and by means of a hook the whole is so adjusted that a considerable strain of tension can be put upon the muscle of the calf. A rheoscopie leg, laid upon a perfectly diy, clean piece of gla.s.s, is held so that the nerve of it lies upon the gastrocnemius muscle of the first le". I now apply the poles of this forceps battery to the nerve of the first, so that the muscles of it con- tract ; you see a secondary (induced 1) contraction at the .same moment occurs in the second, al- though jicrfectly insulated. When I tetanize the314 LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY first by a series of shocks from the induction coil, tlie second l)ecomes also tetanized. But further, you see that when the tension upon the hook pre- vents the first muscle from contracting altogether, that even the tendency to contract is followed by the secondary contraction in the insulated leg. 1 now cut across the tendo Achillis; you see how striking and instantaneous is the result. Gal- vanization now, as before, makes the muscle of the first leg contract, but no contraction follows in the second; the resistance being gone, there is no galvanic excitation sufficient to disturb the second leg. So, in any voluntary contraction, the disturb- ance of the galvanic cquililmum is greater in pro- portion as the resistance is greater, and this disturbance (diminution according to Du Bois Beymond of the muscular current), is felt and appreciated by the special nerves of the muscular sense. Such is the ingenious theory of Browii- St^quard on this subject. In drawing to a conclusion this short course of lectures, I wish to show the strange result of one of the experiments which you have already wit- nessed in giving rise to epileptiform disease. J need not say that the practical physician cannotAPPLIED TO PRAUTIUE. 315 Init look with great interest upon any facts which tend to throw light upon the Aetiology of this obscure and terrible malady; one which for so long a time so completely baffled all rational means of treatment, and which consequently allowed the unhappy sutferer to become the vic- tim of charlatanism until the golden opportunity had passed away, when a rational plan of treat- ment might have been looked to with some hope of success. “Nobody,” says Romberg, in his giaat work on the neiA'ous diseases of man, “ has hitherto suc- ceeded in producing epileptic attacks in animals by lesions of the brain or spinal cord.” As I shall just now show you, the discoveries of the present day negative this assertion. Mai-shall Hall has attempted to show that the loss of consciousness, and the whole train of dis- turbances occurring in an epileptic pm-oxysm, is due to the imj>eded return of blood from the brain, owing to the pressure exercised by the cervical muscles on the subjacent veins. Sriillant, in his report to the Academy of ]Medicine of Paris, en- titled, Exjjeriences falter sur les Anhnaux pour decouvrir le siege et la cause prochaine deV Epi- lepsie, observ’es : “ We must come to the conclu-LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY 1316 sioii, at present, tliat it is a more easy matter to pro- duce artificially au epileptic access l>y acting upon the blood than upon the neiYes or the brain/’ The well-known experiments of Sir Astley Cooper, published in the fii’st volume of Guy’s Hospital Reports, on the effect of tying the carotid and vertebral arteries, have had their value much in- creased by the recent researches of Kussmaul and Tenner in the same line of investigation. It is, indeed, very gratifying to see how much harmony exists between the views of these last-named authors and Brown-S^cj^uard, each arriving at their conclusion through channels of investigation quite distinct from the other. An interruption in the conveyance of arterial blood to the lirain in warm-blooded animals produces an epileptic fit, and there is the same result whether this interruption be due to haemorrhage, ligature of the great vessels in the neck, or to a contraction of the vessels of the brain through the action of the vaso-motor nerves. That convulsions epi- leptiform in character may arise from causes totally distinct from deficient supply of blood to the brain is quite certain; thus, poisons in the blood, for instance, cause various forms of tetanic and epileptiform convulsions. But reflex influ-APPLIED TO PRACTICE. 317 ences actmsr throuiili the vaso-motor nerves on C O the blood-vessels, and thus producing modifica- tions of nutrition of the nervous centres, cannot but be regarded as a frequent. source of epileptic disease. It is known that the brain proper does not, on mechanical irritation, give rise to convulsions; superficial portions of the brain have been re- moved by the hand of the surgeon without the production of convulsions. But the question is, may not alterations of nutrition produce altera- tions of function 1 Must not such changes of nutrition, as we know as a matter of fact, alter the chemical composition of the brain in idiots . and epileptics—alter its functions, and amongst others, its capability of being irritated and ex- cited, so as to give rise to convulsive movements 1 AVe find many analogous cases in other parts of the animal economy. Third Experiment.—In this guinea-pig, about a month ago, I divided a lateral half of the spinal cord; you see the hind limbs have nearly re- covered ; the animal looks well, feeds weU, and is apparently healthy. The cornea of the right eye has become opaque. When I tickle or nip the body, or nose, or ears, it does him no harm ; butLECTURES ON PHYSIOLOCiY 318 wlieu 1 slightly irritate the skin of the cheek on the same side as the injury, you see a convulsion sets in. The eye on the same side is first affected, then the posterior limbs—now it becomes general; you see the entire frame is convulsed, and the muscles of the jaw open and shut the mouth spasmodically, iis in epilepsy ; respiration is nearly cpiite arrest- ed ; it now begins again—at first it is diaphrag- matic ; now the animal has recovered. This, gentleman, is, indeed, a very marvellous and highly instructive experiment. An injury indicted on the spinal cord has given rise to a reflex modification of nutrition in a remote part. The cornea has become opaque : the functions of the nerve of the cheek have been so altered, that irritation of it induces a complete epileptic seizure. But, more remarkable still, if this portion of the skin over the jaw be destroyed by excision or cauterization, or if the nerves of it be cut, then the animal is cured and no more fits can be ex- cited. But we owe to Brown-S(5quard yet an- other remarkable discovery connected with the production of epileptiform convulsion ; this is the occurrence of convulsive movements of a rotatory character, from irritation of the auditory nerve.319 APPLIED TO PRACTICE. Fourth Experiment.—I shall now touch the auditoiy nerve near its origin in this rabbit, with the blunt end of this probe. There is no sign of pain; iDut immediately the animal is seized ^vdth a convulsive movement, which causes it to roll over and over like a cylinder, constantly in the same direction, viz., towards the side on which the nerve has Ixien touched. Even the eyes have, as you see, the same tendency—one l^eing dniwn down and the other up. You are, no doubt, aware that turning or rolling movements occur as the re.sult of several injuries of portions of the enceph- alic mass, as of the optic tLalamus, eras cerelu-i, processus cerel)clli ad pontem, but the tendency to rotate as a consequence of irritiition of the auditory neiwe, presents points for consideration of even more practical interest. We now see an explanation of the vertig<» sometimes produced by injections of cold water into the ear, and of the convulsive atiections dependant on irritation of tlie acou-stic nerve. Cases of convulsions in children have l)een re- ported by Mr. Hinton, Avithout any other altera- tion being observ'cd after death, save in the ear. I would gladly, gentlemen, enlarge much mon:* upon this fascinating topic, lait it has been my320* LECTURES ON PHYSIOLOGY. object in my present lectures, as much as possible, to bring before you facts in phyaiolog}^ which you can judge of -as well as I can. These facts, inasmuch as they have been experimentally demonstrated, will not, I am confident, readily pass from your memories; and on a'future occa- sion I shall look forward to speaking of some affections of the nervous system, for the proper diagnosis and rational treatment of which sound physiological knowledge is so essential. END OF P.^RT 11.I 'M. t ■'3 rjr'^ ■X . 'f ft t>- N'-.V- . \::i- > M * r:, r- 9 « * *•»