* HORACE COX, W- Prioc One Shilling22101424357Med K8589THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.LIST OF PREVIOUS PARTS. INo. 1. Soups. „ 2. Ices. ,, 3. Pickles and Preserves. 4. Entrees. „ 5. Meat and Game. ,, 6. Sweets (Part 1). „ 7. „ (Part 2). „ 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. „ 9. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. „ 10. Vegetables. „ 11. Cakes and Biscuits. These will he followed by : Fish. Household Hints.V THE “QUEEN” COOKERY BOOKS NO. 11. BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY - POWN ALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper and Author of “A Book of Sauces.” LONDONi HORACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1902.LONDON PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness- has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. October, 1902.Advertisements. LINCOLNSHIRE FARM PRODUCE. WHITE CLOVER HONEY. Specialty selected from the best Apiaries, and de- clared by connoisseurs to be the finest English Honey ever introduced to the public. Each jar bears over the cap a Red Guarantee Label with the words, “ Guaranteed Pure English Honey,” without which, and the registered picture label, none is genuine. Sold in lib. and 21b. Glass Jars at Is. or 2s. by the usual dealers, or a Is. Jar will be sent direct from the factory for stamps, Is. 3d. CHEESECAKE CU RD in Jars, Is. and 2s, ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, 6§d. and Is. Free Samples of the Cheesecake Curd and Orange Butter sent on giving your own and Grocer’s name and address, or jar of each DELIGHT mailed free for P.O. 3s. 8&. Sole Makers and Proprietors: SPRING & CO., Ltd., Brigg, Lincolnshire.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Bread ... PAGE . 1 CHAPTER II. Household and Fancy Breads 20 CHAPTER III. Rolls, &c. 43 CHAPTER IV. Cakes ... 74 CHAPTER V. Biscuits and Small Cakes ... 119 CHAPTER VI. Foreign Cakes 151 CHAPTER VII. Cake Decoration, &c. ... 181Advertisements. yy i- By Appointment to the KINO and the Prince of Wales. D. S. F MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising* Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH.BREAD, CAKES, Amongst the subjects needing attention in the kitchens of tlii3 country, few deserve it better than bread. It must be admitted sorrowfully that, taken as a whole, both the British housewife and her cook are extravagant and ignorant. In most cases it may be also freely conceded that the former fault is the outcome of the latter; we do not know how to make the best of the materials we have to deal with, and, consequently, frequently fail in obtaining their full value. It is safe to say that in most households the waste of bread is something almost incredible, and, strange to say, the lower in the social scale usually the greater is the waste. One factor in this is the universal craze for white bread. Now, pure white flour is delicate, of course, but to obtain the purity of its colour a good deal of its nutritive value has had to be eliminated under the most AND CHAPTER I. BREAD. BBREAD, OAKES, AND BISCUITS. o favourable circumstances, whilst under unfavourable ones various more or less harmless additions are made to inferior flour to bring it to the fineness of texture and delicacy of appearance required. Taken at their best these adultera- tions spell waste, for the buyer is paying for a superior article, and only getting one of inferior quality all round ; and one which, moreover, will very likely upset all one’s arrangements, for recipes based on the use of the best materials will not work out correctly when inferior stuff is used, and to this fact many culinary failures are due. But granted this is the worst of harmless adulteration, adul- teration of a less innocuous kind leads to far more serious trouble, so much so in fact that the bread supply and its purity and quality are points it behoves every mother to study pretty closely. There are divers kinds of flour (beginning at the top of the scale), from the delicate Hungarian or Vienna flour, and “ best pastry whites ” (as the very whitest and lightest flour is called in this country), down through “ seconds ” or “ household,” to wholemeal and bran flour. Now, granted that these are all pure, they all have their uses. The first kinds are used for pastry, delicate cakes, and other articles more valued as tempting to the palate than for their nutritious properties ; for bread, “ household ” or “ seconds ” flour is far more wholesome, containing as it does a great deal of the bran, or “ middlings,” as it is technically called, which is really of importance from an hygienic point of view. Lastly, there was a rough kind of flour produced by grinding up the wheat entirely, husk, bran, and corn, just as it came, but this produced too rough a flour to suit modern taste and its use has been gradually aban- doned, until improvements brought in, as a substitute, the well known “wholemeal” flour, which consists of coarsely ground wheat from which only the very coarsest parts of the husk have been omitted. Ordinary brown bread is usually made from this, though sometimes seconds3 BREAD. are mixed with a certain proportion of actual coarse bran. This bread, though not always found perfectly digestible, has yet a very decided medical value, and is often recom- mended by doctors as a useful change. It is considered a valuable assistant in cases of constipation. (Besides these there are “bran bread” (made by mixing certain propor- tions of bran with good and rather fine wheatmeal), ftovis (sometimes called “germ” bread), Bermaline, Cytos, and innumerable other brands of bread, the foundation of which is the varying preparation of the meal, more or less of the bran, pollard, &c., having been left in or added to the fine flour.) As against this opinion it is, however, fair to add that some noted authorities on the chemistry of baking are by no means so favourably impressed by the value of these wholemeal or blended flours, which they assert do not keep so well as bread made from pure white flour will do, becom- ing heavy, “ sad,” indigestible, and even musty from keeping. But having put both sides of the question forward it may be safely asserted that, whatever the flour used, home- made bread is, as a rule, both nicer to the palate and more digestible than the average baker’s bread, and that the absolute purity of the flour, being unfortunately very diffi- cult of attainment, is more likely to be obtained in the ordinary “ seconds ” than in the super-whitened flour, which is somewhat apt to owe a good deal of its puritv to art rather than to nature. That really good bought bread cannot be obtained I by no means assert, for there are well-known bakers whose bread is widely renowned for its excellence, both of flavour and keeping powers; but those accustomed to such bread will allow that its use indisposes one to the enjoyment of bread made by less conscientious and capable bakers. In this I speak from experience, having for years gone to one bakery when in town, and having found that bread procured elsewhere, in the country, &c., was notice- ably different and less palatable. Home-made bread has at all events the merit of relative purity, for you know pretty B 24 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. exactly what you put into it. A little experience soon teaches one to discern the quality of flour. Of colour it is, of course, easy enough to judge, for brown flour argues the presence of some portion of the bran, and if this admixture is denied by the seller then the flour is made from inferior wheat. Prom these alternatives there is no getting away. To test its quality take a good pinch between your finger and thumb and press it well together. If the flour feels light and loose it is good. If there is the slightest touch of lumpiness or clamminess, reject it; it is not in good order. Remember flour should always be at least a week or two old before it is used, but longer if possible. Adulteration at one time was almost universal in bakery ; usually it must be conceded, however, that the foreign substances, added to increase the bulk and diminish the cost of bread production, were innocuous enough, their chief fault being that they reduced the nutritive value of the flour; and when eating, and paying for what we believe to be pure bread made from wheat flour, it is small consolation to know that the raw or cooked potato, beetroot, or turnip pulp, dextrine (potato starch), or rice added to it, are really harmless ingredients. Of alum, used largely at one time for whitening and improving (?) the keeping power o-f bread, one cannot say even so much. However, the law of adulteration, now generally and strictly enforced, lias rendered the use of these substances too costly in actual money, and too ruinous in reputation, for any decent miller or baker to adopt them, so that in dealing with an honest tradesman of good reputation one is fairly certain of obtaining bread made from flour, at all events. But in this, as in every case, fair value has to be paid for quality, and the housewife who gives herself up to the fetish of “ cheapness ” (at ail costs) must make up her mind to the fact that, if she will not pay with her purse she will with her person, or, worse still, the persons of her children and household.5 BREAD. Breadmaking is an art that should, theoretically, be possessed by every woman, though its practice need not be always incumbent upon her. At the same time, iu these days, when we all wander so much, it were well for every woman, whatever her status, to have a working knowledge of the matter. It may be added that ameinia, a disease which has increased so largely of late years, in the country especially, is by many doctors freely attributed to the decline of home baking, and the consequent use of the baker’s bread; for which amongst working people, as a rule, the sole test of purity is its whiteness, due in only too many cases to an excessive use of alum. The use of alum, especially as an ingredient in bread, has for a vex-y long series of year's been declared illegal, and the bakers employing it can, if detected, be severely fined. Its employment was formerly defended by the bakers on the ground that it rendered certain flours, which could not be used under ordinary circumstances, fit for food. Wheat harvested in wet seasons, when the grain is exposed to much atmospheric moisture, yields a flour which cannot be used advantageously; the bread made from it becomes sticky and glutinous when masticated, adhering to the teeth, and being objectionable not only on the ground of taste, but of indigestibility. A small portion of alum added to the water with which such bi'ead is made obviates this defect, and thus enables the baker to use cheaper and inferior flour than he otherwise coixld do, hence its use was formerly very general. Heavy penalties were, it is true, incurred by its use, so alum was seldom kept on the baker’s premises, and before each baking the journeyman used to go to the nearest chemist’s and purchase a pound of “ stuff ”—the technical name under which alum was sold. Used in baking powder, alum serves a totally diffex*ent purpose. The most essential ingredient in baking powder is carbonate, ox*, as it shoixld be called, bicarbonate of soda, which contaixxs with the alkali a very large quantity ofBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. G carbonic acid gas. If this be liberated, by the addition of any stronger acid which removes the soda, the gas is dis- engaged, as may be seen by dissolving an effervescing powder. Should this disengagement take place in the substance of the tenacious and adhesive dough produced when wheat flour is mixed with water, the bubbles of gas so liberated are retained, and, distending the dough, pro- duce a light bread. The best means of liberating this gas is the addition of tartaric acid, which forms with the soda a dry powder, the ingredients of which do not react upon one another until wetted, so that, if the mixture be stirred in the flour and then moistened, the carbonic acid gas is entangled in the dough. But as alum also contains a large proportion of acid, and Avhen mixed with carbonate of soda causes' effervescence, so, as it is only a fraction of the cost of tartaric acid, it has been used to a very large extent as a substitute for the latter in making baking powder. The question whether such employment of alum is, or is not, legal has at last been decided in the Court of Queen’s Bench, after some years’ litigation, the question raised being whether baking powder is, or is not, an article of food coming within the scope of the Act of Parliament regulating the adulteration of food and drugs. It was decided that baking powder not being an article of food, the employment of injurious substances in it does not entail any penalty on the makers. The decision was a perfectly legal one on the following grounds : that the sale of alum is not an offence, and that the small quantity of ground rice or other starchy ingredient in baking powders made with alum does not convert them into food. It is true that the purchaser of baking powder, if he mixes it with food and then sells the food, does commit an offence, but legally the vendor of the powder does not. The question turned entirely on the legal point whether baking powder was, or was not, to be considered as food, which alone would bring it w ithin the scope of the Act of Parliament.BREAD. The decision is unfortunate, because it is generally admitted, and was so even in the evidence on the present case, that alum in food is injurious. It decomposes when heated in connection with flour’, and its addition acts inju- riously upon the latter, rendering it indigestible. It seems a legal absurdity to regard pepper, mustard, and salt as foods and to prevent their adulteration, and yet to regard baking powder not as a food, so that it may be adulterated to any extent. The Food and Drugs Act is badly worded, and requires considerable alteration to prevent the occur- rence of such contradictions, there being in the Act a pro- vision against the use of alum in bread, but none against its use in baking powder. But be this as it may, even if only for a change, it were well if home bakery were at all events occasionally resorted to; and it would be doubtless, but for the queer sort of superstition regarding the difficulty and labour of bread- making that has grown up since the art died out of general use. You are referred to statistics to show how laborious is the life of a baker, and how unhealthy its circum- stances ; but people who make these assertions forget the difference there is between baking a batch of bread for one family occasionally in a light, airy, clean kitchen, and the incessant labour of the half a score of men who, frequently under most insanitary conditions, have to supply the wants of several hundreds of families with bread and pastry of all kinds. Granted that in large bakeries the number of assistants is greater, but then so also is the number of families to be supplied. It is quite on the cards that, if in a generation or two public kitchens (that Utopia of the harassed or incompetent housewife) become the rule, our descendants may find it as hard to get the humble chop cooked at home as we do now the making of bread. The requisites for home bakery are neither numerous nor costly, though, of course, if the demand is large, the supply of such properties will have to be in proportion, but the8 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. same rule applies to ordinary cooking. An earthen or stoneware bread pan should form part of every well set-up kitchen, concerning which article, by the way, there are a few points that deserve more attention than they obtain. (A bread pan should be emptied out daily, and care- fully wiped all over; once a week it should be thoroughly scalded out, and well dried before the bread is returned to it; then hot fresh bread should never be shut into the bread pan unless the latter has some provision for the escape of the steam from such loaves, and even so the hot bread should not be put in if there are other loaves in the pan. Bread put hot into the bread pan and covered down will always deteriorate. Again, the bread pan must not be kept either in a warm cupboard, which renders its contents stale and hard, or in a cold damp larder, where they will infallibly become mildewy and soft.) Besides this pan, one or more baking sheets or tins, one or two large pans or basins (or later on a wooden trough) for mixing the dough in, one or more wooden spoons for mixing, a set of scales for weighing the ingredients, a measuring glass or cup marked up to a pint (this is not absolutely necessary, but saves a lot of trouble), and a few various sized and shaped loaf and roll moulds or tins are required, together with a rasp. The latter also is not indispensable, but -where bread is regularly baked it is a convenience, for, in spite of the greatest care, it is not always possible to prevent loaves and rolls from “catching ” or burning, and the black, hard surface is best and most appetisingly removed by this rasp, -which well repays its small cost. With regard to loaf moulds, these are a matter of taste. The weight of the quartern or half quartern loaf is fixed by law, and any deviation in its weight is con- sequently punishable, but the weights of the so-called “ fancy ” loaves are only “ reputed,” and by no means invariable. The next point to consider is the measurement of the flour. To be in thoroughly good condition, flour should bei) BREAD. three months old (it may be used at the end of a fortnight or three weeks, but never produces such good results), must be stored in a perfectly dry place, and kept as much as possible from contact with the air, as the least suspicion of damp will be enough to give it a musty, unpleasant flavour, which nothing can either eradicate or hide. The following scale of weights for flour is well worth mastering : One pint of flour weighs 14oz. One quart (two pints, or half a quartern) weighs ljlb., and will make a loaf weighing not quite 2Bb. One quartern (two quarts, or half a gallon, or a quarter cf a stone) weighs 3ilb., and makes a loaf weighing 4lb. 6oz. the statutory quartern. One gallon (half a stone or two quarterns) weighs 71b., and produces 8Jib. of bread. One stone (or two gallons or a peck) weighs 14lb., and makes 17^1b. of bread. Two pecks (or two stones) weigh 281b., and equal half a bushel. One bushel (four pecks) weighs 56lb., and makes 701b. of bread. One sack of flour weighs 2801b., and equals five bushels. One pound ahead of bread is the usual daily average of home-made bread, but, like all averages, this varies some- what, one person almost living on bread, whilst another barely touches it. But a little practice soon enables one to judge. Next to be considered are the different kinds of ferment used to “ raise ” or lighten bread, of which there are several varieties. Of these the original one, brewer’s yeast or “barm,” as it was called (and, indeed, still is in out of the way parts), was for long enough the only ferment used. The objection to it was that its quality was never quite to be relied on, and the least carelessness in the manufacture or the storing of it was sufficient to render it practically unusable— a point certainly not improved in these modern times, when10 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. a good deal more than hops and grain are used in brewing. The next ferment taken up was ammonia, a volatile salt chemically prepared from the ammoniacal products of the gas works, ivory black, animal charcoal, and other manu- factures. This sesqui-carbonate of ammonia, to give it its technical name, has long been used, in trade recipes especially, under the various names of sal. vol., voil, and saleratus. It is to be had in lumps, which should be pounded fine as wanted, and in its rock state should be stored in a tightly-stoppered bottle, as it soon loses its strength. The objection to this form of leaven is that, unless very carefully and exactly used, it gives a pronounced and anything but pleasant “hartshorn” flavour, frequently noticeable in inferior cakes and pastry. Next came baking powders of various more or less excellent kinds. These, however, though certainly labour-savers and very con- venient, possess a failing common to ammonia, that, namely, of producing, by chemical action, a practically indissoluble residuum in the articles with which they are incorporated. Of course, the same thing, to some extent, happens with yeast, but the original constituents of yeast being practi- cally the same as the material it is mixed with, this residuum is not more unwholesome than the flour and moisture that nourish it. Considerations of this kind, and convenience, brought into existence the well-known German yeast, which has, year by year, been followed by the appearance of various forms of home-made compressed yeasts of steadily increasing excellence. The quality of these yeasts is a point distinctly to be studied, for inferior compressed yeast is always specially inferior in strength, so that it takes nearly twice as much of it to do the work of good, fresh, and pure ferment. Moreover, there is a technical fact not too well known by the average housewife, which is that in all yeasts there are two kinds, the “ high ” and the “low ” yeast—the former working at a higher tem- perature than the latter, so that it is better for bakers inII BREAD. this country, wlio set their batches to “ prove ” or rise at a temperature too high to affect the “ low ” yeast. Now, “ low ” yeast is always used in the manufacture of German lager and light beers, so it is fair to conclude that the chief part of the German compressed yeast is made from the low variety; therefore, even without taking into account adulteration (caused by the insane desire for cheap- ness at any cost), it is easy to see that recipes based on the use of our home-made “ high ” yeast may need some modi- fication when worked out with German yeast. In this, as in most cases, the best plan is to procure one’s supplies from respectable firms whose characters stand too high to be risked by adulteration or inferior goods. Fresh German yeast never has a bitter taste; it should look like a firm, putty-coloured paste, moist in the centre and with a faint smell of new bread, and be easily friable between the fingers ; it should always be kept in an even temperature (as near 56° to 60° Fahr. as possible), for it is very liable to “turn ” if kept in an over hot place, or in very hot weather. An easy way of testing its condition is to dissolve loz. of loaf sugar in a tumbler half filled with warm water at a temperature of 100° Fahr., and then add an ounce of the yeast. This will at once sink to the bottom of the glass, but if in good usable condition will rise to the surface of the water in two minutes; if it exceeds this time avoid using it. It is useless to try and name even a tithe of the yeasts now on the market, but it is pleasant to be able to assert that in almost every case the home-prepared ferments appear to give the best results from their freshness and purity. To dwellers in towns, or within postal reach of the makers, I can safely say “buy your yeast ready pre. pared”; but as in the pages of the Queen, from which these recipes have been chiefly gathered, requests from dwellers in distant parts abroad have often appeared for recipes for the home preparation of such baking necessaries.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 12 I add a few directions for the preparation, in a simple manner, of these “ lighteners.” A very simple form is the following : Flour and Water Yeast.—Mix some good wheat flour with water to a thick smooth paste, and put it aside in a warm place, well covei’ed with a doubled cloth or a flannel, and let it stand for a day or two till the surface is a mass of bubbles, and it gives off a faint and not disagreeable winey odour. It can then be used at once, or it may be shaped into thin cakes and dried. It must be remembered, however, that this ferment is much weaker than regular yeast, and will take well-nigh double the quantity. Put 4oz. of raw sugar and />oz. of salt into a gallon of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, stirring in steadily, as the water gets thoroughly hot, Mb. of flour; allow this all to boil for an hour (after reaching boiling point), then lift it off the fire and set it aside till cool, when it must be bottled off. Half a pint of this yeast will be required to raise 91b. of flour. Potato Yeast.— Boil and peel three good sized potatoes, then mash them with a delicately clean wooden spoon; work in Jib. of brown sugar, three dessertspoonfuls of flour, with a teaspoonful of salt, and mix this to a smooth batter with as little water as may be ; now put half a gallon of water on the fire with two good handfuls of hops and boil it for half an hour, when you add in the previous mixture; bring it all to the boil again together, then lift it off and strain it into a stoneware jar or bottle; let it cool till milk- warm, when you add to it half a pint of a previous make, and leave the jar or bottle, loosely corked, in a warm plaoe near the fire till the next day, when it must be tightly corked, tied down, and stored in a cool place. This will keep good for a month. Shake well before using and reckon half a pint for each stone of flour. If you have no previous make of yeast to add to this, use half a pint of brewer’s yeast, or dissolve some German yeast (about loz.) in13 BREAD. a cupful (a short half a pint) of warm water. The usual reckoning is that a cake of German yeast equals half a pint of liquid yeast. Potato Yeast.—Boil lib. of potatoes and mash them, then mix with them 4oz. of raw sugar and a teaspoonful of salt, add a quart of tepid water, and let it all stand for twenty-four hours in a warm place ; now boil a small handful of hops in half a pint of water for ten minutes, then strain and add this liquid to the potatoes, &c. Let it stand for another twenty-four hours, then if it does not work of itself add a little brewer’s yeast, and let it work for twenty-four hours more, when it is tit for use directly it is strained. When cold put this yeast into stone bottles, with the corks tightly tied down, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. About a tumblerful (or half a pint) of this yeast is required for 71b. of flour. Always reserve a cupful of this yeast to start another brew of it. Yeast for Hot Climates.—The following directions for yeast making abroad were given in the Queen by a lady who has written a very clever little book on “ Leavened Bread at Home, inthe Jungle, and the Colonies,” which, however, is not easily procured, or so well known as it should be in this country: Mash two small and thoroughly ripe bananas or plantains, and mix with them one heaped tablespoonful of moist sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, and about a gill of luke-warm water When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed pour them into an old-fashioned soda-water bottle, cork and tie this down securely, and put it away for forty- eight hours till its contents are foamy and creamy and ready for use. The cork will fly when opened, like a champagne cork. Other recipes given by the same lady are as follows: Mash and boil two medium-sized potatoes, and add to them a tablespoonful of raw sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, a gill of warm water (80°), and a tea- spoonful of soaked dried peas or lentils; mix all these as. before, and finish as in the previous recipe. This also willBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 14 be ready for use in forty-eight hours. Or, put into your bottle about a wineglassful of beer, a teaspoonful of raw- pearl barley, one tablespoonful moist sugar, and a gill of luke-warin water. Finish as before, but this yeast will be ready a little under the forty-eight hours. When using either of these freshly-made recipes, it is best to strain them into the flour to keep out the fruit or grain used in the starting. A bottle of this yeast is enough for l^lb. to 21b. of flour, and, being practically nearly tasteless, it may be used for an even less amount of flour; but, speaking econo- mically, 2lb. of flour is about the smallest workable quantity to use in breadmaking. Yeast, to Renew.—When you have poured your yeast into the flour, and mixed it to the batter according to the directions given, lift out a heaped tablespoonful of this batter, and put it into the bottle as before, with a dessert- spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and a gill of luke-warm water, cork and tie down; this will also be ready in forty-eight hours. Yeast made by almost any formula can be kept going in this way for an indefinite time, and appears to improve as it goes on. to Keep.—Some years ago an old-fashioned farmhouse baker gave me the following recipes which had been in use successfully in his family for several genera- tions : Have ready some new wooden bowls or platters previously well scalded, and allowed to dry thoroughly. Now whisk the yeast till it becomes thin, then with a soft, dry, clean brush, paint the inside of the bowl all over with a pretty thick layer of the yeast; let this layer get perfectly dry, then paint on another, repeating these layers, allowing each to become bone-dry before adding the next (the success of this recipe depends on scrupulous care in this drying), till you have used up all your material. These layers may be put on 2 or 3 inches thick, and thus treated will keep good for several months. To use this dry yeast cut out the requisite sized pieces, and stir these up in warm -water.BREAD. 15 Yeast, to Remove its Bitterness.—If you use brewer’s yeast, and it happens at any time to be bitter, put about half as much water as you have yeast, and strain the two through a hair sieve half full of bran. This may have to be repeated two or three times, but will in the end remove all bitterness. Baking powder, roughly speaking, consists of a mixture of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and flour of some kind. These are mixed dry into the other ingredients (indeed, their goodness depends on this dryness), and, when thus mixed for use with the bread or cake materials, will effer- vesce like a Siedlitz powder (which, indeed, I have known to be used in the Australian bush by a squatter anx ous for bread, or, as he called it, “ damper ”) ; the carbonic gas thus generated giving the required lightness to the dough or paste. Owing to this effervescence, bread or cakes made with baking powder must be “ fired ” at once, or the efferves- cence will go off, and leave the dough “ sad.” Care must be taken in choosing baking powder, for though that prepared by good makers such as Borwick, Cowan, &c., is thoroughly satisfactory, yet it is a melancholy fact that few things are more adulterated than the cheaper kinds of baking powder. Where it is not possible to get areally good form, it may be easily prepared at home thus : Measure out carefully two parts tartaric acid to three parts each of carbonate of soda and fine flour, creme de riz, or arrowroot, or, indeed, any fine kind of farinaceous preparation. You can make this in any quantities desired, only observing the proportions strictly; sift the ingredients well together and store them in perfectly dry, airtight bottles. Some people keep the chemicals separately, measuring and mixing them out as desired, but this is scarcely a good plan, for the success of baking powder depends fully as much on its exact proportions as on the purity of the materials. Another raising mixture is known as “ egg powder,” and for this the ingredients are as follows : Sift together IGoz.u> BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. tartaric acid, lib. carbonate of soda, 21b. potato flour, and about 1| drachms of turmeric. If the turmeric is omitted, this makes by no means a bad baking powder. Failing baking powder, a mixture of sour milk and carbonate of soda, in the proportion of one teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to half a pint of milk, is excellent for cakes, scones, &c. Indeed, in Scotland it is chiefly used for the latter purpose. Finally, besides baking powders of various sorts, there are the self-raising flours, such as Coomb’s Eureka, or Brown and Poison’s Paisley flour, in which fine wheat or cornflour are carefully mixed with a due proportion of chemicals, and simply need to be wetted without other addition to make the dough. Both the flours mentioned are highly to be recommended for the use of amateurs, full directions foi their use being sent with them. A very good home-made self-raising flour of this kind is produced by sifting together, carefully and repeatedly, loz. of tartaric acid and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda, with 21b. of fine flour. Be sure this is well blended, and keep it in a dry place in a well-covered wooden or earthenware pan. This last remark gives the one chief difficulty with these flours, viz., the fact that if, by any accident, damp or moisture, in however slight a form, gets near them they are spoilt, as effervescence sets up, and all their value is lost. The last general point to be considered in baking is the oven. On the proper regulation of the heat of this success almost entirely depends. The materials may be of the best, the mixing perfect, but if the baking or “firing,” as it is technically called, is not properly attended to failure is inevitable. The time bread will take to bake will depend on the size of the loaf, the heat of the oven, and the light- ness of the dough. If only a small quantity of salt has been used in the mixing the dough will be light and dry. and will in consequence bake very quickly. If, however, a small quantity or a low quality of yeast has been used.17 BREAD. with the necessary corollary of plenty of salt to “ steady ” it, as it is technically called, needing prolonged fermenta- tion to develop the necessary gas, the dough, owing to the chemical decomposition thus set up, will be damp and bulky, and will take longer to bake. As soon as the article to be baked attains 212° Fahr. degrees of heat its cooking has begun, and the time it will then take to cook will in great measure depend on the amount of its surface exposed to the heat. A baker’s oven is generally heated up to 500° (a smaller iron oven does not reach this heat), and then, if the loaves are put in separately an inch or so apart, they will cook far more quickly than if crowded together, touching each other, and thi3 is a point that deserves consideration when baking. The quantity of loaves and the space at their disposal must always be carefully taken into account when deciding on the time required to bake them properly, and it is the cook’s inattention to this detail that has frequently brought even tried recipes into discredit. The best way to ensure success on this point is to open the oven door a few minutes before you consider the loaf should be ready, and if it looks baked draw out a loaf and test it by pressing gently on the part that looks softest. If the pressure leaves a perceptible dent when the finger is removed, the bread is still insufficiently cooked; if, on the contrary, the dough springs back sharply on the finger being withdrawn, the loaf, if of an ordinary size, is baked sufficiently. The heat of an oven needs attention; if too cold, the bread baked in it will have a stewed, dried, and unpleasant taste—quite different from the crisp, fresh, nutty flavour of nicely baked bread. More- over, though a scorching oven is to be deprecated (spoiling as it does both the appearance and the material), a hot oven is to be preferred to a cold one, as the bread cooked in a well heated oven (short of actual burning) is whiter and moister; though if the oven is so hot as to necessitate the bread being taken out before it is perfectly cooked through.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 18 the latter will naturally not be very digestible. What bakers call a “good sound oven” is the perfect one for baking. Experience teaches cooks to discriminate this heat by simply putting their bare hand and arm into the oven, but for novices it is well to give some practical tests. The famous French chef, M. Gfouffe, has given a very simple test in the following way. “ Have ready some pieces of ordinary white kitchen paper, and try the oven by putting in one every eight or ten minutes. If on being put in the paper blackens, or even blazes up, at once, the oven is manifestly too hot. If on being left in for two minutes or so the paper turns a deep, almost chocolate brown, the oven is ready for patties and small pastry generally, If th paper turns a Havanna or cigar brown, tarts, vol-au-vent, and such like may be put in. If the paper simply turns a pale yellowish brown, the shade of a deal plank, the oven is fit for bread, large meat or game pies, pound cake, &c., in short, anything requiring the ‘ good sound ’ (or soaking) heat mentioned above. If finally the paper, when left in the oven for the prescribed time, is barely tinged with a very faint shade of yellow, sponge cakes, meringues, and such things needing but light baking and little, if any, colouring, may be safely set in it.” Lately an oven thermometer has been introduced in this country by the Eagle Range Company, which, owing to its simplicity and durability, to say nothing of its relatively low price, will probably be in general use before long. Oven thermometers are not, strictly speaking, novelties. Such have been on the market for some time, but their susceptibility to heat, and their consequent fragility, rendered their use, save in very skilled hands, unsatis- factory. This new “ Eagle Heat Indicator,” to give it its proper name, has neither mercury nor springs to get out of order, the heat indications, shown on the dial let into the oven door, being the result of the expansion and con- traction of the alloy used in its manufacture. This alloyI!) BREAD. will continue to contract and expand for years without alteration. Its degrees may be compared with M. Gouffe’s test thus : Paper burnt a chocolate or deep brown equals 450° on the “ Eagle” thermometer, a “ hot” oven. Paper burnt a cigar or lighter brown equals 400° on the “ Eagle ” thermometer, or a “ quick ” or “ sharp ” oven. Paper burnt a deal brown equals 350° on the “ Eagle ” thermometer, or a “ moderately quick ” oven. Paper burnt a lighter deal brown equals 300° on the “ Eagle” thermometer, or a “ steady ” or “ soaking ” oven. Paper burnt a very faint yellow equals 250° to 275°, or a “slack ” oven. Bread should be put into a hottish oven at first, say 350°, which must then be allowed to slacken down to 320°. Remember that the thermometer, being on the door, is always a little cooler than the interior of the oven, so allowance must be made for this. One word more re the storing of bread. Abroad, thrifty housewives bake a good batch of bread at a time, instead of, as we do, making it fresh and fresh; yet their bread shows little, if any, trace of such storage. Having baked their bread, they dust an empty flour sack (kept for the purpose) with fresh flour, and in this they set the loaves so that the top crusts come together; then, when in the course of packing the undersides must necessarily touch, they strew in a good handful of flour before putting in the next layer of loaves. The sack thus packed is then hung up in a cool, dry, and airy place where it can swing freely till the bread is needed. The day before a loaf is wanted it is taken out, the flour well dusted off it, and it is set in the cellar to stand till the next day, when it is ready for use. Bread will keep this way a fortnight, or even more. Stale bread, or cake, may be perfectly freshened by dipping it in water, water and milk, or milk only, according to its kind, and then setting it in an oven till hot through. c 2CHAPTER II. HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. Household Bread— There are different ways of making this, though they vary more in appeai-ance than in reality. One of the easiest for home baking is the following: Turn a quartern (3£lb.) of flour into a large basin, and set this in a warm place, or even in a slack oven, till the flour is thoroughly warmed through, as this helps in bread-making considerably. Now mix into this two teaspoonfuls of fine salt, stirring it well together, then with your knuckles make a deep hollow in the flour, being careful, however, to keep a good layer of flour at the bottom of the pan. Next rub together loz. of German yeast with a teaspoonful of caster sugar till it “ creams” (or liquefies), then mix it with rather more than three-quarters of a pint of tepid water (to secure tepid liquid of any kind you must pour together one part absolutely boiling water to two parts of cold, and you will then have the right temperature, whether you use water, milk, or milk and water) ; pour this yeast and water into the hollow of the flour, which bakers term a “ bay,” and draw down lightly from the sides just enough flour to bring- the liquid to a thin batter of about the consistency of single cream. Dust this lightly with a little dry flour, cover the basin with a flannel or a doubled cloth, and set the pan in a warm corner, out of the draught, to rise, or “prove” as it is technically termed. If the yeast is good.HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 21 in about twelve to fifteen minutes you will find the batter is working well, and is all covered with large bubbles. Now mix in gradually all the flour, working it to a rather soft dough, and using about a pint of tepid water to mix it; it is best, however, to add this water cautiously, for different flours require different quantities of water to bring them to the right texture; the finer the flour the more liquid will it take up. Having mixed your dough to the right stage, you knead it by working it with your fists, throwing the full weight of your body first on one side and then on the other, doubling the edges over towards the centre of the dough, working it in this way till the whole has been thoroughly and evenly kneaded. The time it will require to knead properly depends, of course, on the amount of dough, but for the quantities given above (which I have purposely made small) about twenty minutes will be ample, though it is easy to judge when the dough is sufficiently kneaded, as it will then come clean away from both hands and basin. If you find at the end of the time given above, or even a little later, that it still clings, dust it with a little more flour and knead it again ; but in bread making it is always well to have a little patience, for it is one of the things for which no strictly accurate rules can be given, and it is only by experience that one learns to judge offhand of the con- dition and requirements of the flour, dough, &c. It cannot be too often impressed on the beginner that the goodness of the bread depends far more on the care in the mixing and the kneading than on the fineness of the flour, an experienced baker producing infinitely better and sweeter results with coarse flour and good management than the unskilful or negligent practitioner will secure with the finest materials and accessories. Having kneaded the dough till you can lift it out of the basin, leaving the inside quite clean, dust the basin lightly with a little flour, return the dough to the basin, cut it sharply across and across with a knife, re-cover the pan, and let it rise till it is double its original22 BREAD, OAKES, AND BISCUITS. size and the cross cuts are nearly invisible; this will take, for the quantities given, about an hour. Now turn it out on the board and re-knead it for a few minutes, then mould it. If you mean to bake it in tins have these ready buttered, and put in the dough, shaping it lightly to the tin, which must never be more than half full. If you wish for cottage loaves, make the piece of dough chosen into two bal ls, a large and a small one; put the little ball on the top of the big one. and with either your floured finger, or the h indie of a wooden spoon, make a hole right through the two balls, at the same time cutting down the sides of the larger ball all round to secure a crusty loaf. A very con- venient shape for kitchen use is what bakers call a Coburg loaf, which is simply an exaggerated edition of the half- penny dinner roll; for this you shape the dough into an oval, cutting it across the top rather deeply. Whatever way, however, you choose to shape your loaves, when so shaped they must be at once returned to a warm place to rise again. When they have become double their original size they must be at once put into the oven to bake, for if allowed to over-rise they will very likely drop in the baking and become sour and sad. Be sure the oven is right when you put in the loaves. The easiest way to test the oven is to throw in a teaspoonful of flour, or a piece of white kitchen paper; if the flour browns in five minutes, or the paper becomes the colour of deal in two or three, the oven is ready; if you happen to have a thermometei', you will find 350° Fahr. about right. The bread should be in the oven about ten minutes before it begins to brown, and this stops its rising, which it always does for a few minutes after entering the oven. If the above quantities are divided into two, the loaf will take one to one and a quarter hours to bake. If only made into one loaf, this will take from one and a half to two hours. Directly the bread is dine, and taken from the oven, turn the loaves upside down, or on their sides, to allow the steam to escape.HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 23 which it can only do through the soft under-side. Be sure the bread is perfectly cold before storing it in the bread- pan. The great point in bread making, as said before, lies first in the kneading and then in the firing. If the dough is not regularly and steadily kneaded it will be full of holes and hard lumps, in consequence of the fermentation being uneven. If, when rising, the air, much more a draught, gets at the dough, it will “ catch cold,” as bakers say, and form a crust on the top, which will arrest the fermentation, as will uneven, careless kneading. Before putting your bread into the oven, make up the fire so that it shall not need replenishing till the baking is done. If the oven is too cold when the bread is put into it the latter will con- tinue to rise, and will run all over the mould. If, on the contrary, the oven is too hot, the crust will form too soon and too quickly, and then either the outside will be badly burnt, or the inside will not be cooked. Please note that in baking, as in every other culinary operation, the very strictest cleanliness is indispensable. Many a batch of bread has been condemned owing, it was considered, to the inferiority of the yeast, or flour, or both, when the fault really lay with the careless, slovenly baker, who neglected the due cleansing of his utensils, and the thoroughness of his kneading. I have been thus particular in describing ordinary bread making because the same remarks apply to every kind of bread. It may be added that if the above recipe is carried out exactly as given, only using milk, or milk and water, instead of plain water, it produces an extremely good imitation of Vienna bread. Household Bread, with Potatoes.—Peel and boil 3lb. of potatoes and crush them through a masher or colander. Mix together half a pint of good sweet yeast with half a pint of barely tepid water, then mix this and the potato pulp to a batter and pour it into a bay in the centre of a peck of flour. Stir down a little of the flour from the sides.24 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. and dust a, little more over the top of the little pool of batter thus formed. Cover the pan with a thick cloth, and leave its contents to rise by the fire for about an hour. At the end of this time, if the “ sponge,” as this batter is technically called, is properly fermented, work it all into a dough with the flour, adding in 2oz. of salt and four and a half to five pints of tepid water. Remember to add this water very gradually, according to the advice given above. Let this dough rise in a covered pan in a. warm place for about two hours ; now knead it into loaves, let these rise as before, and bake them in a good oven from one and a quarter to two hours, according to size. To know if bread is properly baked tap the underside with your knuckles, and it will give a sort of hollow sound, whilst the texture will feel firm yet elastic. As soon as the loaf is lifted out of the oven turn it on its side, or support it so that the air will get all round it. Otherwise the side resting on the table gets soft, and if placed flat on the side that was underneath in the oven this will become wet and blistered, as the steam in the loaf cannot escape. Let the loaves get thoroughly cold before putting them in the bread pan, and wipe this out well before they are placed in it. It cannot be too often repeated that the most scrupulous cleanliness is an indis- pensable factor in successful bread-making. Adirondack Bread.—Warm 2oz. of butter, being careful not to let it oil in the least, or cream it with your hand or a wooden spoon, as you please; beat the yolks of five eggs till light, then whisk them into a pint of milk, adding in gradually from 5oz. to Goz. of Indian corn meal and 4oz. to 5oz. of whe it flour, and beat it altogether till smooth ; now mix in the softened batter, working it well in, and finally mix in a full tablespoonful of sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder, and the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Stir these all together as quickly and lightly as possible, and p( nr the mixture into a wrell-buttered tinHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 25 which should be both broad and shallow in shape, and bake forty minutes in a moderately sharp oven (390° Fahr.), and serve hot. (This is an American recipe.) Aerated Bread.—Such bread is made by Dr Dauglish’s recipe, with flour, water, and salt through which carbonic acid gas is forced by powerful machinery when the previous ingredients have been worked into a dough. This bread is said to be specially nourishing, and is much liked by some people, though others dislike its peculiar flavour greatly. Its original great merit, its freedom from handling in the making, is now shared by other kinds of bread. Naturally, exactly this bread cannot be produced at home, but a form which possesses a good many of its merits may be made thus : Sift together %oz. of bicarbonate of soda, half a drachm of carbonate of ammonia, 4 drachms of common salt, and 51b. of previously sifted flour ; then mix into this 5 drachms of hydrochloric acid dissolved in two and a half imperial pints of water, work it quickly to a light dough, with no kneading, shape or mould into loaves, and bake at once in a rather quick oven till nicely browned and crusty. Made into two loaves, this will take rather over half an hour to bake. Kneading will make this bread heavy. It should be mixed and worked with a wooden spoon (not the hands) as quickly and lightly as possible, remembering not to get the dough too stiff. This bread keeps better, and is proved to be far more digestible for weak stomachs than ordinary bread. Baking-powder Bread.—Sift together well four full pounds of flour, a heaped teaspoonful of salt, and three dessert- spoonfuls of baking powder. When this is all thoroughly blended, work it to a nice dough gradually, with about a quart of milk, milk and water, or water; shape it as quickly as possible into four loaves, and bake for one to one and a quarter hours, in a fairly heated oven. This must be put into the oven the moment it is shaped, and must be mixed as quickly as may be, on account of the baking powder.26 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Bran Bread.—This is made with neither brown nor whole meal, but consists of fine white meal, mixed with a certain proportion of actual bran, the proportions being one part of more or less coarse bran to three parts fine white wheat meal. It is then made up like ordinary bread. Brawn Breach, or Speckled Bread.—To a quartern of fresh yeast dough, add 4oz. of butter, work it well in, then let it rise; when well risen, add 4oz. of sugar (white or brown) with 4oz. each of picked, washed, and dried currants, and stoned raisins, with, if liked and handy, some blanched and shred almonds, and some finely shred candied peel. This “Irish bread,” as it is often called, can be made more or less rich as you please, by using ordinary dough or fine Vienna milk dough, or more butter, with all the above ingredients ; but its ordinary mixture is plain bread dough, with sugar and currants. Black Bread.—Rub 5lb. of brewer’s grains to a paste, then work into this 4oz. fresh yeast, 2|lb. of very coarse flour, and half a handful of salt. When well mixed, put it aside to rise, and when double its original volume, make it up i n loaves, and bake. This is much used on the Continent, in Russia and out of the way parts of Germany especially. Brown Bread.—This is made like ordinary household bread, using coarse or fine brown flour, or equal parts of white and brown flour, as preferred ; it will, however, take rather less salt than ordinary bread, and may need a trifle more yeast, say an extra £oz., and a little more water, as the dough should be as moist and soft as possible. It is best to make it up in small loaves, for if the loaves are of the usual size the outside is baked before the inside is ready, with the result that the crust is as hard as a rock whilst the centre is nothing but a heavy dough. In cooking this bread the oven requires to be of a steady soaking heat. Some bakers, in preparing this bread, add in loz. of butter, dis- solved in the mixing water, for every 3lb. or 41b. of flour, whilst others use milk and water to mix the dough. BarleyHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 27 meal, oatmeal, or Indian corn meal may be used in making this bread, allowing one-quarter to one-third of either of these meals to three-quarters or two-thirds of white flour. Brown Bread (American).—Two quarts of Indian corn meal, one quart of rye flour, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses ; mix it well together with enough good sweet milk to make a dough. Let it stand for two hours, then bake in a slow oven. (Boston).—For this, mix together thoroughly two cupfuls each of white cornflour, yellow corn meal, and ordinary wheat meal (or Graham flour, or rye flour, to taste), with a teaspoonful of salt; then mix it all with two cupfuls of boiling water, and a cupful of milk in which you have mixed a cupful of molasses, working this last well into the flour; at the last dissolve a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a cupful of sour milk, and stir this also into the mixture. Then turn it all into a covered mould, and steam it for three hours, after which take off the lid and bake it for half an hour. If sour milk is not handy, fresh or sweet milk may be used, but the sour milk is best. Another version of this bread is made by scalding a pint of Indian corn meal with just enough boiling water to moisten it thoroughly without making it sloppy. Let this stand for ten minutes, then add to it enough cold water to make it all to a soft batter, when you work into it a gill of brewer’s yeast, a gill of molasses, one pint of rye flour, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. When this is all thoroughly worked together, set it to rise till the next morning; then, when light again, knead it thoroughly; two-thirds fill a buttered tin with the mix- ture, dust it with a little flour, and again let it rise, after which bake it for two hour's. (This makes delicious toast.) Calce Bread.—Take a quartern of wel 1 risen dough, then work into it, kneading it well, 2oz. of butter (or well clarified dripping), 2oz. of sugar (caster or moist), and 6oz.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 28 to 8oz. of well washed and dried currants or sultanas. This may be made with the ordinary bread dough, dripping, moist sugar, and currants, in which case it makes very nice sweet bread and butter, whilst if made with Vienna or milk bread dough, fresh butter dissolved in a gill of new milk, caster sugar, and sultanas or dried cherries, with a flavour- ing of vanilla, lemon, or kirschwasser, it becomes an extremely nice cake. Coarse Bread.—This is made from the cheapest line of flour made; but, if carefully made, though its colour will, of course, be somewhat dark, its flavour will compare favourably with a good deal of so-called “ superior ” bread. Dissolve 2oz. to 3oz. of yeast and foz. of salt in half a gallon of hot water (about 90° Fahr.), have ready about 121b. of coarse flour in the trough, make a “ bay ” in this, pour the liquid in, drawing down enough flour to produce a thin batter; let it stand over night till thoroughly risen, when you work into it a quart more water and 2oz. of salt, and finish off like any other bread. Coffee Bread.—Beat the yolks of five eggs till light with 4oz. of caster sugar, then stir to them the whites of the eggs whipped till stiff, and whisk it over boiling water or in the bain-marie till quite warm; now lift it from the fire, and continue whisking it till it is quite cold; then sift in lightly 4oz. of fine Viennese or Hungarian flour, and pour the mixture into a papered mould and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as it is ready, lift it out of the oven, remove the paper, and let it stand till cold. It may then be served as bread, or it may be sliced down in pieces the length of your finger and the width of two, carefully dried in the oven or over a slack fire till delicately browned on both sides, and served-as rusks. This kaffee brod is served abroad mostly as rusks or zwieback, as in that form it will keep good a long time if stored in airtight tins. Corn Bread (Indian).—Mix together half a pint of coarsely ground white Indian meal with a pint of milk, oneHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 29 whole egg, and a pinch of salt. Have ready a well-buttered tin about four inches across and three inches deep, and half fill it with the mixture, then bake in a tolerably hot oven for thirty or forty minutes, and serve at once on a napkin. It may, if preferred, be split and buttered, but always serve it very hot. Or: Corn Bread (Indian).—Mix together a quart of buttermilk (or sour milk), two eggs, three spoonfuls of butter, and a teaspoonful of saleratus. Now stir in enough corn meal to make a good thick batter, and bake in squares an inch thick. It takes half an hour in a hot oven. Melt a full ounce of butter in five gills of milk ; put into a basin two breakfastcupfuls of Indian meal, and stir into it loz. of caster sugar, a dessertspoonful of salt, and lastly the milk and butter, three eggs (whites and yolks well beaten separately), and a teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda dissolved in a very little hot water. Sift 2oz. cream of tartar into a breakfastcupful of flour, and add this last of all to the mixture. Bake this all in a well- buttered mould, in a steady oven, for about three-quarters of an hour, turn it out when done, and use at once hot. Remember in cutting any Indian corn bread always to keep the knife perpendicular, or it will crush and sadden the bread. Date Bread.—This is a form of cake-bread, and consists of milk-bread dough, into which any quantity of stoned dates have been worked ; it is baked in the usual way. A little fresh butter may be added with the dates, but no sugar is required, owing to the sugar in the dates. Diabetic Bread.—Mix together 4oz. almond flour, two tablespoonfuls of gluten flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, loz. of butter previously creamed, and salt to taste; then work in two whole eggs, one by one, beating each in well, and pour the mixture into a shallow pan and bake for twenty minutes. Or: Mix 4oz. almond flour, two tablespoonfuls of specially ground bran, loz. creamed30 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg, and about a tablespoonful of milk. Either of these two breads, if cut into rusks as in the recipe for coffee bread, and baked on both sides, make excellent biscuits. Diet Bread.—Sift together 4lb. granulated wheat meal, 2oz. cream of tartar, and loz. bicarbonate of potash ; make a hollow in the centre of this meal with your knuckles (a “bay” as it is technically called), and into this put loz. fine salt, 2oz. caster sugar, and just enough churned milk to dissolve the salt and sugar; when these are quite melted, work to it just enough churned milk to bring it all to a nice smooth dough, then mould in buttered tins, and bake at once. Egg Bread.—Mash well together a breakfastcupful each of cooked rice and hominy, and work in alternately the well beaten yolks of four eggs, and three tablespoonfuls of fine flour, half pint new milk, and one tablespoonful of butter; when these are all well mixed, stir in the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, shape the dough into loaves, and bake in a quick oven, Frame Food Bread.—Allow loz. of “ frame food extract ” to every 71b. of flour, making up the bread in the usual way. The extract adds greatly both to the flavour and the nutritive qualities of the flour. It may be added in the same way to any cake or biscuit mixtures. Dyspepsia Bread.—Mix together £oz. caster sugar, Joz. salt, 2oz. ground rice, loz. diastase, and £oz. German yeast, moistening it with half a pint of milk and one and a half pints of warm water; when well blended work into it 3^1b. to 41b. of whole meal or the finest flour till it becomes a fairly firm dough. Put this into a large pan capable of holding twice its capacity, cover it all over with a cloth, and set it in a cool place to rise till next morning (or, at all events, for six to eight hours); then turn it out, dust with a little more flour or ground rice, knead it well together, make it up into 21b. loaves, and put these awayHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 31 for an hour, or until they are well risen, when they must be thoroughly baked. The better bread is baked the more digestible it is. French Bread.—Sift 41b. of fine flour into a pan and make a bay in the centre; dissolve 4oz. of butter in half a pint of tepid milk and water, work it up with 2oz. of dried yeast, and pour the mixture when blended into the bay, drawing down a little flour from the sides to form a small pool of thin batter in the hollow ; then dust the top with some more fresh flour, and get the pan covered with a cloth inside the fender in a warm corner to rise. Remember that, though it must be kept warm, it must not be allowed to get hot. In about three hours knead it up again with about one and a half pints of tepid milk and water; then again cover it, and let it rise as before for three-quarters of an hour ; now dust a board lightly with flour, turn out the dough, and make it up into loaves, which must also be set to rise for fifteen minutes, then bake in a well-heated oven. Germ Bread—See Hovis Bread. Graham Bread.—Warm together lioz. to 2oz. of butter and 2oz. to 3oz. of molasses till the butter is quite dis- solved ; now add to it half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, previously dissolved in a short half pint of tepid water with half a teaspoonful of salt; then stir this with a delicately clean wooden spoon into half a pint of ordinary white bread dough, working into it then enough Graham flour to produce a very thin dough. Turn it into a buttered pan, and let it rise till quite even with the top of the pan (which should only have been half full), and bake from one hour to one and a quarter hours in a moderate oven. Gluten Bread.—Mix together a pint of cold milk and a pint of boiling water, pour this on to a teaspoonful of butter, and the same of salt, and let it stand till it is all lukewarm. Now add a well-beaten whole egg, a quarter of a compressed yeast cake, previously dissolved, and enoughBREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. 32 gluten to make a soft batter. Cover the pan, stand it in a warm corner, and let it rise well; then knead in sufficient gluten to produce a soft dough, kneading this very thoroughly. Now shape it into four loaves, let it rise again, then bake for an hour. Remember gluten bread takes both less yeast and less time to rise than ordinary bread. It may be observed that a cake of compressed yeast is considered equal to half a pint of liquid yeast. Gluten Bread.—Another way of making this bread is to make a sponge with fib. of wholemeal flour, three-quarters of a pint of water, and half a yeast cake. Let this stand for about two and a half to three hours, then work in 5 lb. more meal and about three-quarters of a pint of water, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses, kneading this well to a soft, smooth dough, and using in the process 2oz. or so more of the flour. Let this rise till the next morning, when you make it up into two loaves ; again let these rise till double their original size, and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. These are American recipes. Greek Bread.—Sift and warm 6lb. fine flour, then mix it with 3oz. of yeast, worked up with a little caster sugar, :?oz. salt, and a little water, adding gradually enough tepid milk and water to make it all into a not too stiff dough. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, and leave it for three hours in a warm place to rise, after which divide it into eight parts, set each in a buttered tin, and bake in a very hot oven. When nearly done turn them out of the moulds, and set them in the oven on tins to colour the crust nicely. This takes a very few minutes. Roll them up at once in flannel. Hovis Bread.—This bread is made with a specially pre- pared flour, patented by Mr Richard Smith. By this pro- cess the germ of the wheat and really the most nourishing part, is retained, though it has hitherto been rejected owing to its injurious action on the other constituents of the flour. By the Hovis process this germ, after special treatment.HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 33 is mixed with a certain proportion of fine wheat flour, and is all sifted together through silken sieves till the resulting meal, of a brownish colour, is entirely free from any irritating substance, pleasant in flavour, and possesses a very large percentage of bone-forming phosphates, which Of course renders it a specially suitable bread for children. To make it, mix 3|lb. of Hovis flour with as much warm water (90°) as will bring it all to a smooth batter, then add to it l£oz. of yeast, previously dissolved in half a gill of warm water, and work this all well together. When well worked add in as much more water, at the same tem- perature (90°), as will make up a quart of water altogether, and mix it well in. Now divide up the dough, lightly shaping it on the board, place these loaves in tins, and set them to rise in a warm, even temperature for ten to fifteen minutes; then bake in a moderate oven, allowing from fifteen to twenty minutes longer than for ordinary bread. Use no salt in making this bread. This recipe was given me by the manager of the Hovis Bread Co. Lapland Bread.—Put a pint of flour in a basin with a pint of cream or new milk, and mix it all well with the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, then at the last stir in quickly and lightly the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs, pour the mixture in well-buttered tins dusted with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. Malt Bread.—Steep ^lb. of freshly ground pale malt in tepid water for twelve hours, then strain through a napkin. Mix a small handful of salt into 21b. of flour (which may be white or wholemeal flour, or half and half as you please, only remember whatever you use must be dry, free from lumps, and well warmed) ; put this all into a pan and stir into it the infusion of malt, which in summer should be tepid, though rather warmer (but not too hot) in winter. Having mixed this all well, add 2oz. of yeast, previously dissolved in half a gill of warm water, and knead it all to a stiff dough, then cover an 1 leave it t< rise in a warm place; DBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 34 then make up into loaves, let these rise again a little, and bake in a good oven. Another way : Mix together 3^1b. to 41b. of flour, loz. salt, and 3oz. malt flour; cream together loz. dried yeast, and a teaspoonful of moist sugar, moisten- ing it with onejand a half pints of tepid water, then turn the sieved flour into a pan or large basin, make a “ bay ” in the centre, and pour the yeast, &c., into this, drawing down a little flour from the sides till you have a pool of batter in the] hollow, and let it rise well; then mix it all thoroughly, but without kneading it at all. Now with a sharp knife cut the dough across and across like a hot cross bun, cover the pan with a cloth, and’set the dough to rise in a warm but not hot place, well out of any chance of draughts, and leave it till it has risen to fully twice its original size; then turn it out, knead it a very little, put this quantity into two buttered loaf tins, andjbake one hour. With these loaves (as indeed with all bread) it is impossible to be perfectly accurate as to the quantities of flour or water, so it is well to be cautious in adding the latter. The flour used for this recipe may, as in the preceding one, be of wholemeal, wheat flour, or half and half, as you please. Mannheim Bread.—Make a firm dough with two whole eggs, 6oz. of fine flour, 2oz. caster sugar, and £oz. powdered anise seed. When well mixed, divide the dough, rolling these pieces into long rolls 12in. or so long and 2in. or 3in. across; lay these rolls on a buttered tin, score them down their length with a knife, brush them over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a hot oven. They may be servedtwhole, or sliced and lightly dried in the oven, as rusks. Milk Bread.—This is a particularly nice American bread, and well worth the little trouble it entails. Set a sponge (or ferment) thus : Pour a full half-pint of boiling water on to six hops, and let it stand till lukewarm, then strain off the water, squeezing the hops well, and add to it as much more water as will produce exactly three-quarters of a pintHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 35 of liquid, and dissolve in this half a cake of yeast; when this is all blended, add Jib. of fine flour, sifted after measuring, and mix it lightly together in a basin that will hold three quarts. Cover this down closely with a flannel and set it in a warm place to rise for two and a half to three hours, by which time the basin or pan should be quite three-quarters filled with the dough; measure and sift Jib. more flour with a dessert- spoonful (level) of salt, and turn it into a pan double the size of the first one, add to it a dessertspoonful of butter or lard and a tablespoonful of caster sugar, and work it all well together; now pour into it the sponge, wash out the basin containing this with three-quarters of a pint of single cream or new milk, and add this to the contents of the second pan. Use this milk cold in hot weather, and tepid in winter; if it must be scalded, be sure it is quite cool before using it. Work this all well together, then turning it on to the floured board or slab, and kneading it to a soft elastic dough ; use 2oz. to 4oz. of flour more in this mixing, if necessary, according to the consistency you Avish your bread to be, but remember, if too much flour is used the resulting bread will be hard and tough, Now return the bread to the pan, cover it closely, and leave it in a warm place out of draughts for six or eight hours, or all night if started in the evening. By this time it should very nearly, if not quite, fill the basin ; now again turn it out, and knead it just sufficiently to form it into loaves, only using the smallest possible quantity of flour in this mixing. Have ready some square tins, and fill these half full with the dough, prick the tops well, and set them, covered, to rise in a decidedly warm place for an hour or so until the dough has rather more than doubled in volume. Now bake for ten minutes in the warmest part of the oven, but direct ly the top is lightly coloured shift the loaves to a cooler part, or reduce the heat a little, and bake for thirty-five minutes longer. Let this bread stand in the kitchen till perfectly D 236 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. cold befox’e it is put away in the breadpan. This bread is not nearly so good fresh as when from twenty-four to thirty- six hours old, and, if protected from chills and draughts, will keep in perfect order for a week. Potato Bread.—Boiled mashed potato is frequently added to household bread, and a recipe for its use in this way has been given in the directions for household bread. A medium-sized boiled and mashed potato may also be added to most bread doughs, such as milk bread, sandwich loaf, &c., the texture of which it is considered to improve, the moisture it gives keeping the bread fresher for a longer time. Pumpernickel.—This is a very coarse form of unbolted rye bread, almost black in colour, solid in consistency, and rather acid in flavour. It is used in many parts of Germany, and when thinly sliced and buttered often forms a pleasant accompaniment to hors d’ceuvres and savouries of different kinds. In this country it is usually bought ready made at the German delicatessen shops. Queen’s Bread.—Dissolve together Jib. moist sugar and 2Joz. German yeast in a quart of hot water (96deg. Fahr.), and when blended work it to a sponge with fib. of flour. When this has risen well add Jib. of butter, loz. of salt, and mix it well with sufficient flour to bring it to the consist- ency of rather stiff teacake dough, adding one egg for each pound of dough. When well mixed let it stay in a warm place for about half an hour, then make it up into small cottage loaves ; again let these rise for a littl°, and bake. If preferred, the dough may be made up with milk and water, instead of plain water; whilst with regard to the quantity of flour it is impossible to give any very definite amount, but probably from 3lb. to 3jlb. would be sufficient to work it up to a nice dough. Rice Bread.—There are two ways of making this bread. One, which is very good, and used in the Southern States of North America, is made thus: Beat together three wholeHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 37 eggs till light, then add them to one and a quarter pints of milk; now beat into this rather more than lOoz. of Indian corn meal, about 6oz. or 7oz. of cold boiled rice, a tea- spoonful of salt, and loz. of warm but not oiled butter; when this is thoroughly beaten sprinkle into it two even dessertspoonfuls of baking powder, and mix in very quickly; have ready buttered some round shallow pans, turn the mixture into these, bake at once in a hot oven for thirty minutes, and serve very hot. Or, cook Jib. of rice in hot water till tender enough to sieve, then pour off the water and stir the rice into 2lb. of ordinary flour; mix three dessertspoonfuls of yeast and one teaspoonful of salt with enough of the warm rice water to make it all a smooth dough ; let this rise in a warm place, shape it into loaves, and bake from one to one and three-quarter hours, accord- ing to size. This recipe may be varied according to cir- cumstances, as it was originally introduced at a time when flour was very dear. If the rice is cooked in water and drained off it is always wise to use this water in mixing the bread, as this increases its nutritive value ; if the rice has absorbed the water in which it was cooked, naturally fresh hot water must be used, but at the same time this kind of bread does not require as much moisture as the ordinary kinds. In America, where this bread is much liked for its keeping powers, a little maize meal is mixed with the ordinary flour, or a boiled and mashed potato is added as recommended for potato bread, and milk or milk and water is used instead of plain water. Rye Bread.— Scald a pint of milk and dissolve in it a teaspoonful each of butter and salt; when cool, work .in half a cake of compressed yeast, with enough fine flour to make a thick batter, and beat this well till the batter is full of air bubbles; now cover it, and let it stand in a warm place until morning. Next morning work in lightly enough rye flour to make a soft dough, and, when sufficiently kneaded, divide this dough into two loaves; shape them.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 38 place in greased bread-pans, cover, and let them stand in a warm place to rise again. When light, bake in a moderate oven (300° Falir.) for one hour. Remember that rye bread must never be as stiff as white bread, nor does it require so much kneading. Formerly the sponge for rye bread was set with barley meal, which may perhaps account for its loss of general favour. Salt Bread.—Make a thick batter with fine flour and a pint of scalding water, then add half a teaspoonful of salt, and beat it till quite smooth and full of air bubbles. Now cover it closely, stand it in a pan of warm water, and keep it in a warm place till the next morning. Next day scald a pint of milk, and set it aside until it is tepid, then add a teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a batter that will drop, but not pour, from the spoon. The salted batter prepared the previous night should now be very light, and have acquired a decidedly disagreeable smell; beat these two batters thoroughly and steadily together for quite three minutes, then cover with a cloth, stand the basin in a pan of warm water, and set it to rise in a very warm place till light (about two hours); now work in enough flour to make a nice dough, knead thoroughly until it is a perfectly smooth and springy mass, then divide it up, shape it into loaves, place these in a buttered pan, cover with a towel, and when very light bake in a moderate oven (300° Fahr.) for an hour. This dough must be kept very much warmer than ordinary yeast dough, or it will not rise properly; but when carefully made it is said to be more digestible than any other kind of bread. This dough mikes very nice Grissini, or “ salt sticks,” if divided up into strips lOin. or 12in. long by lin. wide, rolled into sticks with your well-floured hands, and baked. Sandwich Bread.—This tread, when prepared by bakers, is usually baked in special tins, some called sandwich tins having sliding lids, whilst double or box tins are constantly used for this purpose. The following, however, makes aHOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 39 very nice loaf for the purpose: Mix together three table- spoonfuls each of milk and water, and when this is just tepid stirjinto it loz. of German yeast, loz. of butter, and a saltspoonful of salt. Put l£lb. of flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, pour the yeast mixture into this, draw a little of the flour from the sides down over it, cover the basin with a cloth, and let it stand in a warm place for three hours ; now knead it to a light dough with one and a half gills of tepid milk and water, cover the dough again, and allow it to rise for half an hour more; now turn out the dough, make it up into loaf shapes, set these in oblong baking tins, previously well floured, stand them by the fire for ten minutes to “prove ” or rise, then bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. The time of baking must necessarily depend on the size of the loaf. Sandwich bread should |never be used fresh, as it does not cut to advantage in that condition. Vienna, Bread.—This is very often made precisely like household bread, only using milk and water instead of plain water, and dissolving a little butter in the water. The great difference is that the very finest Hungarian flour being used instead of ordinary flour, more liquid is required than for household bread. An easy way of making it is to rub 2oz. of butter into 2lb. of warmed and sifted flour; now rub together a teaspoonful of sugar and an ounce of yeast till it creams, mixing in with it a pint of tepid milk, then pour it on to the flour and butter, adding in a teaspoonful of salt, and mix it all to a good dough; when it can be lifted out of the basin in a firm smooth mass, leaving the sides of the basin quite clear, put the dough back into the basin which you have previously lightly floured, cut it across and across with a sharp knife, and let it rise in a waiun place for about an hour. When it has risen well it will be twice its original size, the cross cuts on the top will be almost invisible, and on touching it the dough will feel quite distended and ’el astic. Again turn it out, re-knead it lightly.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 40 and half fill some well buttered square tin moulds with the mixture ; let it rise a little in the tins, and bake in a sharp oven till done. Almost every baker has his pet recipe for this bread, some omitting the sugar, others, again, using an egg for each pound of flour, &c. This dough is also used to make the various twists, and rolls, and shapes of different kinds so much used abroad. Wholemeal Bread.—Cream together well 2oz. of German yeast and a good teaspoonful of caster sugar; in another basin sift together 4lb. finely ground, wheatmeal, and a dessertspoonful of salt; make a " bay ” in the centre of this, and pour into it one and a half pints tepid water and the yeast, draw a little flour down from the sides on to this, strew a little more over the tiny pond thus formed, cover the basin with a double cloth, and let it rise for forty minutes in front of the fire. Now work this all up into a dough, and again let it rise for two hours, when it must be re-kneaded and divided up into loaves; bake for about an hour, placing the bread in the hottest part of a very hot oven first, then draw it down to the cooler end. If preferred, a pint and a half of milk, in which loz. of butter has been dissolved, may be used in precisely the same way, when tepid, to mix the dough with. Another way, you mix togetherJ4lb. fine wheat- meal, 2oz. of sugar, and a little salt; make a “bay” in the centre, and pour in 2oz. of German yeast, previously creamed with a teaspoonful of sugar, a pint of tepid water, and half a pint of milk. Add to this two or three well- beaten eggs, work it all to a dough, then cover, and let it rise before the fire for two hours, keeping the pan well covered. Now divide it into two, and bake in two tins f6r an hour. This can be varied by using different propor- tions of wholemeal and flour to suit different people’s taste and digestion. Take equal quantities of meal and flour— say, one gallon of each; work it as for bread with 2ioz.HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 41 of fresh Herman yeast, or two tablespoonfuls of well-washed beer yeast. Add to this four to six tablespoonfuls of salt and a good three quarts of warm water or milk and water. This bread requires much more moisture than the ordinary white bread. Cover the mixture with a blanket and let it rise for quite an hour and a half the first time. Then work the dough thoroughly, beating and kneading it well, and let it rise for another hour. Bake it well in a moderately hot oven.—Another way : To 71b. of wholemeal take 3£lb. of flour, salt to taste, and three dessertspoonfuls of solid beer yeast (or just under 2oz. of German yeast), and about four and a half pints of liquid.—Another way : Use no flour at all, but one gallon of wholemeal, lR>z. of German yeast, or three dessertspoonfuls of beer yeast; work and bake as above. The proportion of salt for relieving the insipidity of this bread is about loz. to a gallon of flour or meal. Less yeast will be needed in summer than in winter; and in the former season the liquid used to mix it should be cooler than in winter. You can, of course, decrease or increase the quantities according to the above proportions. Wholemeal Bread (Sir Henry Thompson’s).—Mix or sift together 2lb. coarsely ground wholemeal and )lb. of fine flour (or better still the same weight of fine Scotch oatmeal), to this add loz. baking powder and two saltspoonfuls of salt. Then rub in 2oz. of butter and work it quickly to a dough with skim milk, or half milk, half water. Have ready some buttered rings on a buttered baking tin, and put the dough, which should be soft enough almost to pour, into the rings, and bake at once in a quick oven to start with, lowering the temperature a little as it cooks. If prefei’red, yeast may be used instead of baking powder, and Sir H. Thompson prefers this, but then the moistening liquid must be used warm and the dough be set by the fire or in a warm place to rise for an hour, and when put into the tins should again be set to rise for fifteen to twenty minutes before baking in a moderate oven. Medium oatmeal may beBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 42 used instead of the fine flour or oatmeal when this bread is made with yeast. It is well to remember that this dough can only be made in rings or as bannocks, for wholemeal is a bad heat conductor, and if made up into the ordinary loaves the outside would be hard and overcooked long before the inside was more than a pudding or stodgy mass.CHAPTER III. ROLLS, &c. Even in houses where bread making is eschewed, hot rolls are often liked, and, indeed, looked on as an integral part of breakfast. Now of rolls there are many varieties, and most of them are easy to make. The following rules may be of use. In heating the oven for bread, the baker’s test is to put in a teaspoonful of flour, and watch how long it takes to brown, putting in the batch if the flour browns in five minutes, or perhaps a trifle under; but for I’olls the flour must brown in a minute. Yeast, baking powder, or a mix- ture of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, are all used as a raising mixture ; if yeast is used, remember the dough, when shaped for rolls, will need ten to twenty minutes rising before it is baked, but if the chemicals are used, the dry ingredients must be mixed and sifted together separately, the liquids by themselves, and then when ready it is all mixed and shaped as quickly as possible, and put into the oven at once. The proportions for the soda and cream of tartar are one part of the soda to two of the cream of tartar. The usual allowance of baking powder is a full, but not heaped, teaspoonful to the pound of flour ; but this must, of course, depend somewhat on the strength of the baking powder, as different makers var}< the strength a little, so in trying a new brand always test it first. (I use Cowen’s baking powder, and reckon by that.) Again, in44 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. making scones you are often bidden to take sour milk, or preferably buttermilk, to moisten the ingredients, in which case you allow a level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to each pint of milk. If, however, you have neither of the kinds of milk, use sweet milk, and half a teaspoonful of soda to a full one of cream of tartar. The same rule applies to molasses, often mentioned in American recipes ; you leave out the cream of tartar and use a level teaspoonful of soda to the half pint of molasses. These rules apply to most cakes and scones; so that, bearing these rules in mind, it is fairly easy to adapt recipes to your own conditions. It may be well here to remind amateurs that a little- attention is indispensable for the correct mastering of any new recipe. Always read it over carefully before starting, noting the ingredients required and the quantities, and have these ready, carefully weighed out, before beginning. I quite admit the experienced cook often “ does not hold ” with all such weighing, and prefers to judge by rule of thumb and eye, but there her experience comes in (some- times it does not, by the way—a frequent cause for the astonishing failures in recipes, which she has, according to her mistress, " often made before most satisfactorily! ”) so the beginner is advised to be particular as to her weights and measures. A level, or an even spoonful (of any size) means a spoon filled up to the very edge of the bowl, often lightly pressed down to get it level, and when full and thus lightly pressed, hold the back of a knife perpendicularly over the full spoon and gently shave off the top till quite level. Such a spoonful is very different from “ a heaped or rounded spoonful,” which is almost equivalent to three- quarters of a spoonful more, and will, of course, play havoc with your recipe if used instead of the “ level ” spoonful given. The same rule applies to liquid measure. A full cup means one filled up to the very brim, rather difficult to lift without spilling unless the hand be very steady;ROLLS, &c. 45 whilst “ short ” measure implies a cup or glass comfortably full, which can be lifted with no anxiety. Roughly speaking, when “ a cup ” is given as a measure it means, generally, half a pint of liquid measure, whilst a “ teacupful ” indicates a quarter of a pint or gill. Butter “ the size of an egg ” means, approximately, 2oz.; “the size of a walnut,”implies loz. “ A pinch of salt,” again, is reckoned as being from half to a whole teaspoonful of fine salt—as much as a man can grasp well between finger and thumb, but common sense must be used; a teaspoonful of salt (frequently given in cookery books in soupmaking directions as “a good pinch ”) is sufficient for soup made with 4lb. or 51b. of bones and three pints of water, so clearly the pinch required for a few rolls made with Jib. of flour, and the rest of the ingredients measured by ounces, is of a less capacious character, and the amount gathered by the dainty little finger and thumb of a young girl will be sufficient. I mention these facts (which will seem superfluous to the trained cook) because they have puzzled me horribly in my time, and though I have tried not to give such directions in this book, it is well to have a sort of general idea of what is meant by these terms. If rolls are brushed over with milk just before putting them in the oven, the crust will be nicely browned, while if a morsel of butter is rubbed over them just before lifting them out of the oven, the crust will be crisp. (It is not as well known as it should be that if, when using eggs, you have any unbroken yolks left over, they will keep good, and liquid, for several days if gently placed in a jar or basin with just enough cold water to cover them, and stored in a dark place.) Remember that, in roll making especially, the flour must be of good quality, fine, sifted, dried, and warmed before use. Bannock, unleavened.—Rub from Joz. to loz. of butter or lard or clarified dripping into a full Jib. of medium oat- meal and a pinch of salt, and work it all to a smooth, stiff46 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. dough with absolutely boiling water. Now turn this out on a board slightly dusted with oatmeal, and knead it out into a round, lin. thick; rub it lightly over with more oat- meal, and toast it before the fire in a toaster, or on the girdle, according to your pleasure, turning it repeatedly till nicely browned on both sides, and serve. This cake (for which a real Highland receipt is given) requires knack and practice, as the cake is apt to break if in the least overshortened. Delicious with butter, honey, or golden syrup. Bannocks.—Rub 2oz. of clarified dripping into £lb. of oatmeal, with a small teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt; make it all into a smooth, stiff dough with cold water, roll it out fairly thinly, cut it into triangles, and bake on a hot, greased girdle, turning it once in the cooking; or bake on a buttered baking tin in a very hot oven for a few minutes. Aberdeen.—Beat two eggs well, with a pinch of salt, and sugar to taste, and make a very stiff batter with about half a pint of milk and a short pound of flour, with which has been sifted a full teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat it well, then pour it on a hot, greased girdle, and bake, turning it once to get both sides nicely coloured. The batter should be too thick to run, but just right to drop from the spoon ; it will spread well on touching the hot girdle. The difference between this and “dropped scones " is chiefly that it is made in one large cake, the size of the girdle, and only quartered when dished. Corn Flour.—Mix a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar into a breakfastcupful of cornflour ; then mix into it a pint of absolutely boiling milk; now let it cool, and when marly cold stir in two well-beaten eggs, and bake it in spoonfuls on a girdle, or turn the whole mixture into a buttered piedish and bake in a vei’y hot oven. Lift it out when done and serve hot. Fried.—Pour just enough boiling milk or water47 ROLLS, Ac. on to a pint of cornflour to scald it,Jand leave it till nearly cold. Now mix into this a tablespoonful of yeast, half a teaspoonful of salt, one small egg, and a pint of flour, working it all well together; then cover the pan and set it in a warm corner to rise, after which work in a quarter of a teaspoonful of bicaibonate of soda, break up the dough into neat pieces, and fry in plenty of hot fat. When nicely coloured drain and serve. Baps.—Make a dough in the usual way with ^oz. yeast, loz. salt, loz. sugar, loz. lard, a quart of water, and suf- ficient flour (about 10lb. to lllb.) to produce 121b. of dough. When the dough is well risen, turn it out on a floured pastry board and cut it into 4oz. pieces, kneading and making these up into balls ; roll these into oval shapes, set them on a flat tin to rise, then bake in a nice hot oven. Excellent “ pan bread ” can be made with this dough, if to 41b. of the dough you add three-quarters of a pint of cold water and loz. to ljoz. of salt; let it stand for an hour, then knead it up and bake. The water used to dissolve the yeast should be at a temperature of 96°, but not more than 80° when the sponge is working. This dough will rise round at the top, and when it leaves the sides of the pan or flattens, it is ready for working. If left lying too long, the dough will sour. (This recipe was given by a Scotch baker famous for his “ baps.”) Biscuits.—Breakfast.—Mix a pound of flour to a nice paste with a gill of thick cream, and half to a teaspoonful of salt to taste; roll the paste out pretty thin, stamp it out in rounds, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Butter.—Eub Jib. of butter into a quartern of flour till smooth ; now add a gill of yeast, and stir in gradually a pint of warm water; cover the pan, and let the dough rise in a warm place to twice its original bulk, then dust a little fresh flour over it, and knead it; again let it rise for a little, then turn it out on a floured board, roll it48 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. -out Jfin. thick, and stamp it out with a plain cutter; arrange these biscuits on a buttered baking sheet, keeping each well away from the other, brush them over with milk, and hake in a quick oven. When ready lift them off the baking sheet, and when cold store them in tins. Biscuits, Bath Olivers — Put into a pan 6'lb. fine flour; ■cream together 2oz. German yeast with loz. of sugar, mix this with a quart of tepid milk, and pour it all into a bay in the flour, draw a handful or so of the flour down into it, cover, and let it rise for one and a half hours; then work it into the rest of the flour, with a pound of butter, working it well together to a smooth dough; let it rise again for two hours, then roll it out very thinly, stamp out in biscuits with a plain cutter the size of a teacup, prick them well, being careful the fork prongs go right through the biscuits (or the gas and steam will not escape properly, and their look 'will be spoilt by blisters on the surface), set them on flat baking tins previously sprinkled with water, and brush the biscuits over with egg yolk beaten up in milk ; set the tins, when filled, in a warm cupboard • or a drawer for half an hour, then bake in a slack oven. These biscuits can hardly be rolled too thin. Captain’s.—Mix in a large basin 41b. flour, 2oz. butter (broken up small), two whole eggs, and a pint of water; work and rub these ingredients well together, slipping the hands down to the bottom of the pan, and throwing up the half mixed dough till it is all well blended. Then knead it thoroughly, working it well and heavily (the secret of baker’s “Captains” lies in this kneading, as they use either a “break” or a biscuit machine, and thus knead the dough much more thoroughly than it is easy to do by hand, save in very small batches) ; as soon as the dough is well mixed and smooth, cover it with a damp cloth, and leave it for an hour or two ; then roll it out quickly, as thin as possible (paper-thin is about right\ cut out with a round plain cutter, prick the biscuits49 ROLLS, &c. well with a fork, dust a baking sheet lightly with rice flour (do not butter it), arrange the biscuits on this and bake at once in a very hot oven. To ensure success with these biscuits the dough must be worked in a warmish place and guarded from draughts till it gets into the oven. In baking set the biscuits at first in the very hottest part of the oven to blister and brown the surface, then shift them to a somewhat cooler part; but the oven must always be very hot and the work done very quickly. Like all plain hard biscuits, captains should always be well dried after baking, setting them for some hours in a dry warm place, or a slack oven. Thick Captains are made in precisely the same away, only breaking the dough off in 2oz. pieces, rolling these out a quarter of an inch thick, in rounds (or rolling the dough in a sheet and stamping it out with a cutter), then pricking them well through. Ahernethy bis- cuits are made like thick captains, only adding 2oz. of carraway seeds to the mixture, and baking the biscuits in a somewhat cooler oven than for captains. Milk is also often used instead of water, in the mixing. Biscuits, Cracker.—Work a tablespoon ful of equal parts of lard and butter with a pinch of salt into a quart of flour till it has all crumbled into dry crumbs, then mix it to a stiff paste with water, and knead it well till it blisters; roll it out thin, stamp it out into squares or rounds, prick well, and bake at once in a quick but not fierce oven. These can be made either thin or thick, but should be dry and crisp. These biscuits, pounded and sifted, are the well- known “ cracker crumbs ” used by American cooks instead of ordinary breadcrumbs. Cracknell.—Into 4Jlb. of flour, rub 4oz. of butter, then make a bay in the mixture; mix twelve whole well beaten eggs, a gill of milk, |lb. of sugar, and a piece of “ vol ” or rock ammonia, the size of a pea, in another basin) whisking them together for two or three minutes; now pour this into the bay and work it up from the bottom, as E50 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. described in making captain biscuits ; the dough should be smooth and spongy; knead it well, then roll it out one-fifth of an inch thick, stamp it out with round, oval, or leaf- shaped cutters, prick each cake well, and leave them out as flat as possible for a minute or two; now lift each biscuit separately in your left hand, pressing them into a cup shape with your right thumb, dropping each into boiling water as done (keep a fish kettle or bain marie pan at hand on the hob, full of boiling water, which must be kept at boiling point) ; in about a minute the biscuits will rise to the surface, when they must be lifted out with a skimmer and dropped at once into a pan of cold water; cover this pan and leave the cracknells in this for three or four hours. Now drain them well, wash them over with a little white of egg, set them on buttered baking sheets, and bake for about twelve minutes in a hot oven. See they are thoroughly baked, but mind they do not burn. Biscuits, Oatmeal.—Put into a basin |lb. coarse oatmeal, 4oz. flour, 4oz. sugar, rub 4oz. of butter thoroughly into it all, and make it all into a stiff paste with a whole egg mixed with half a gill of water. Dust a board lightly with fine oatmeal or a little flour, roll the paste out very thinly, prick with a steel fork, stamp out with a round cutter, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Water.—Mix together lib. of flour, the yolk of an egg, and enough water to make it all a stiff paste ; work it well till perfectly smooth, then roll it out as thin as possible, and stamp it out with a plain round cutter; prick these rounds with a fork, and bake in a slack oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. A nicer form of these is made by using milk instead of water. Cornish Splits.—Mix together 12oz. flour, 8oz. butter (or well clarified dripping), a teaspoonful of sugar, and, if liked, 8oz. well washed and dried currants, moisten with buttermilk or water, work it to a nice smooth paste, roll it out I|in. thick, mark it out in rounds or squares.51 ROLLS, &c. bake, divide at the marks, split with a fork, spread with clotted cream or creamed butter, and serve hot. Croissants.—These French rolls are simply made with French, milk, or Vienna dough; or any good household dough will do if made with half milk, half water, with a little butter rubbed up into the dough at the second kneading. About 3£oz. of butter to the quartern of dough is the right amount. When the dough has risen the second time, roll it out like pastry, about Rn. thick, cut it into even squares, and each across diagonally into two triangles ; take a corner at the ends of the longest side of the triangle in each hand, with the third point outside away from you, and roll it up evenly, lightly pressing the third point to make it adhere to the roll; then bend the two ends towards each other in a crescent, or croissant, shape (whence the name) ; bake ten to fifteen minutes in a rather quick oven. Brush each roll as you lift it out of the oven with egg yolk beaten up with a spoonful or two of milk. This makes them shiny, and prevents their hardening. After cutting out these croissants, gather up the trimmings of dough, break off little pieces, make these into egg shapes with your well-floured hands, cut each across once with a sharp knife, and bake as before. These make capital breakfast and dinner rolls. Another way of making up these rolls is to cut the dough into even strips, rolling these on the floured board till round; now put three strips together, keeping the centre one just a trifle above the others, and plait these three strands, allowing them to widen out in the centre, narrowing them again towards the lower tip ; then pinch the ends lightly together to make the plait firm, lay these twists on a buttered baking sheet, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven, being careful not to let them colour too highly. These croissants are known in Austria as Kipfel, of which there are various kinds, chiefly differentiated by their seasonings, such as rough salt, aniseeds, carraway seeds, &c. e 252 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Croissants.—Sift together lib. of fine flour, £oz. good baking powder, and a couple of saltspoonfuls of salt, then rub into this loz. of fresh butter. Work this all well together, moistening it first with a well-beaten egg, and then with sufficient milk to form a firm dough. When this is smooth, turn it out on to a floured board, divide it into six portions, and roll these with your hand into sausage shapes, about l£in. thick in the centre, and tapering slightly at the ends; bend them into crescent shapes, lay them on a buttered baking tin, brush them over with milk, and bake about fifteen minutes. Crullers.—Beat together three whole eggs, four table- spoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of butter or lard (just heated enough to make it mix readily, but not oiled, or the mixture will be heavy) ; then work in enough flour to make a dough that will roll nicely, and roll it out in a sheet a quarter of an inch thick. Cut this into strips 3|in. long by 2in. broad, slit each piece twice, giving each a twist, and fry in plenty of smoking hot fat to a delicate brown. Drain well, and, if liked, dust with a little sugar. Crumpets (Bakers’).—Dissolve loz. German yeast in a quart of warm milk, add a teaspoonful of salt, and when the yeast is quite melted pour it into 21b. of flour in a basin, and work it all to a smooth batter; then cover the pan, and let the batter rise in a warm place for about three-quarters of an hour. Now make a stout iron baking sheet hot in the oven, brush this over with liquid butter, put some oiled crumpet rings evenly on this in rows, put a large tablespoonful of the batter very carefully in each, slip the sheet into the oven, close the oven door at once, and bake in a sharp oven. When one side is done lift the crumpets out of the rings, and turn them on the sheet to insure both sides being cooked nicely. Crumpets can be eaten either hot or cold, or re-toasted and buttered. Melt loz. of butter over the fire in a pint of53 ROLLS, &c. milk, lifting it off the moment the butter is dissolved ; now let it cool a little, then add to it a well-beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and enough flour to produce a nice batter, pouring in at the last a gill of fresh yeast; cover, and let it stand in a warm place fifteen to twenty minutes, then bake lightly on a buttered plate in proper rings, either over the fire or in the oven. As soon as one side seems properly toasted, turn it over on to the other. The rings should only be half filled with the batter, as it rises a good deal in the baking. Crumpets.—Weigh ljlb. of flour, rub down half an ounce of German yeast with a little sugar and water, pour a pint of warm milk over it, anl let it stand to settle ; strain it into the flour, stir it well, and put in a warm place to rise. When well risen add another pint of milk, with a little salt and two well-beaten eggs; set it aside in a warm place to rise again. Heat the griddle or frying-pan, rub it with a piece of butter, and, when the batter has risen sufficiently, pour a teacupful of the batter into the pan without stirring the mixture. As soon as it is set turn it over quickly with a slice, lay them as soon as they are done on a clean cloth, and cover them with another. Toast them when wanted. Damper.—This Australian bread-stuff is much nicer than people at home give it credit for being. It should, properly, be bake I in the ashes of a wood fire, and that fire a large one, which should have burnt down to a fine, powdery ash, still retaining a large amount of heat; but, failing this, the dough can be cooked in a camp oven, drawing the fire well over, round, and under it. A strong fire is an essential for this cake, and it is wise for the beginner to make a small loaf of it for a very large amount of fire Put into a dish 2lb. of flour, sprinkling into this a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and half that amount of tartaric acid, with salt to taste. When this is all well mixed make a hollow in it, and with the right hand pour in sufficient water or milk to moisten the dough, keeping it mixed up all the time with54 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. the left; then with your well-floured hands make it up into a convenient cake. The fire should have been well heaped up before beginning the mixture. When everything is ready open a hole, large enough to hold the damper, in the fire by means of a shovel, and, after taking away from the bottom of this any outstanding pieces of coal, sprinkle the surface lightly with some cold ashes from the outside fire, and lay your cake gently on this ; then sprinkle a pint or so of fine ashes over the bread (according to the heat you consider your fire to possess), and cover it up all over with the fire. A beginner should not get his cake too thick; Bin. when it is put into the fire will be best, especially as when cooked it will be found to have risen fully an inch more. It is difficult to fix any time for the cooking of this bread, but, with a good fire, twenty to twenty-five minutes will probably be enough. It is a good plan when you think the damper is nearly done to open the fire and turn the cake over, for it will be found that the upper side gets more heat than the lower one. As you do so tap both sides of the cake with your finger. A well- cooked damper gives out a hollow, drumlike sound. Fadge.—Mix together 2oz. each of rye and ordinary brown flour, with a saltspoonful of salt; work into this 3oz. of butter and enough milk (about a gill) to get it all to a stiff paste. Bake for about an hour on the girdle or on the hot plate, but never in the oven. This must not be over-cooked or it will become a kind of piecrust. Another way is to dissolve 3oz. of butter over the fire in half a pint of milk ; mix together lib. wholemeal flour, oz. baking powder, and a saltspoonful of salt; mix this all to a stiff dough with the butter and milk, roll it out |in. thick, make it into scones, or fingers l^in. by 3in., and bake on the girdle or in a clean frying pan, turning the cakes from time to time to cook them evenly. Serve hot in a napkin, dusted with flour. If made up into a diamond shape these are often called “ wholemeal bannocks.”ROLLS, &c. 55 Galette.—Make a hole in the centre of lib. of flour, put into this loz. caster sugar, half a small teaspoonful of salt, two whole eggs, and a teacupful of milk, adding lastly Jib. of warmed but not oiled butter; mix this all well, and knead it thoroughly; make it up into a ball, flatten it with your hand, cut it across in lozenge shape, pinch the edges, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. (This is particularly good if made with Coombe’s Eureka flour.) Make a hole in a pound of flour, and put into this Jib. of warmed fresh butter, half a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Knead this all thoroughly together, make it up in a ball, then cover with a cloth, and let it rise for half an hour in a warm place. After this finish off as in preceding recipe. Work lightly fib. of butter into lib. of flour, Indian meal, buckwheat, or rye flour, add a large spoonful of salt, and make it into a paste with a little water, or if you have them, the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk ; roll this out into a round (in some parts of Brittany I have seen the knuckles used instead of a roller) fin. thick; score it into diamonds, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. Eaten hot or cold. Often cooked on a girdle or frying-pan. Dissolve Jib. of butter very gently, then work it into lib. of light dough (that used for French or Vienna bread), add two egg3, two spoonfuls of eau de vie, and a teaspoonful of salt; beat this all well together for twenty minutes, then let it rise for two hours in a warm place ; put it into a buttered mould, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. Grissini, or Salt Sticks.—Take some light dough, such as is used for Vienna, French, or milk bread ; cut this into strips 8in. to lOin. long, and rather thicker than a pencil; lay them on a buttered baking sheet, dusting them well with salt, and bake till crisp. Some people use puff paste, toBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 50 which they have added a liberal dusting of salt, for these salt sticks; but abroad, where these grissini are very popular, they are almost invariably made of light bread or rolled dough. Some cooks, having salted their dough before baking it, dust the little sticks with coralline or Nepaul pepper, when they are very useful with cheese. An egg worked into the Vienna dough is a great improvement to these little sticks, and, when shaped, brush them over with milk, and strew them liberally with coarse salt before baking. Hot Cakes.—Breakfast Cakes.—Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in a basin with half a pint of warm milk, and stir into this enough sifted flour to make a nice batter. Set this aside in a warm place to rise ; when well risen mix into it 4oz. warmed butter, previously beaten up with the yolks of eight eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little milk, and, when it is well incorporated with the sponge (as the yeast batter, or mixture, is called by bakers), work into it as much more sifted flour as will make up 2lb. altogether with that used in mixing the sponge. Knead this all lightly together, make it up into cakes 2in. thick; put each of these into a ring (such as are used for muffins), set these on buttered baking sheets, and, when the dough has risen again nicely, put them in a warm oven and bake. When done slice them pretty thickly, butter well, and serve hot. Sift together lib. of flour and one saltspoonful of salt, then rub in 4oz. of butter till smooth; now mix in half a pint of warm milk, half a gill of fresh yeast, and two well-beaten eggs. Work this all well together, then cover the pan and set it before the fire for about three-quarters of an hour till well risen; divide the dough equally, and put it into well-buttered hoops about 4in. in diameter, and let them rise again for a few minutes, after setting the hoops carefully on a well-buttered baking sheet; then bake in a brisk oven. When baked slice each cake into threeROLLS, Ac. 57 horizontally, butter these slices generously, replace them in shape, set them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve at once very hot. Breakfast Cakes.—lib. of flour, loz. of butter or clarified dripping, one full teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, and half a pint of buttermilk; mix all quickly to a smooth dough, roll it out half an inch thick, stamp it out with a tumbler, brush over with milk, prick it a little, and bake. Serve hot, plain, or torn open and buttered generously. Do not put a knife to these. Mix together 2lb. of flour, Jib. butter, 2oz. lard, sugar and a little salt to taste, with four eggs beaten up with just enough milk to make it all to a nice dough ; mix in at the last three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, make it up in cakes the size of a muffin, anl bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Turn occasionally, as they burn very quickly, and serve very hot, split and buttered. Cornish Heavy Cakes.—Rub 6oz. to 8oz. butter lightly into lib. of flour, add a pinch of salt and Jib. well washed and dried currants or sultanas; work it all to a nice dough with cold milk or single cream, roll it out Jin. thick on a well-floured board, and stamp it out in rounds with a tumbler or plain cutter, handling the pastry as little as may be. Bake in a quick oven, for twenty to thirty minutes, till of a pale golden shade. If the oven is not sufficiently hot, bake on a girdle or in a frying-pan; any- how, serve very hot. If to be used for tea, Cornish cooks very often stir 4oz. of very finely shred candied peel into the mixture. Buckwheat Cakes.—Mix a good teaspoonful of baking powder with a pound of dried and sifted buckwheat flour; beat the yolks of two eggs with a little water till light (i.e., till the fork can be lifted out without leaving any strings), then beat them into the flour, adding gradually enough water to produce a batter, which when lifted will fall in a kind of sheet from the spoon. Now stir in the whites of the58 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. eggs whisked to the stiffest possible froth with a pinch of salt (he sure jou have removed the “speck” from the eggs!), and drop this batter by spoonfuls into a pan of boiling friture (butter, dripping, ghee, oil, or any fat may be used), and cook over a good, steady fire. When these cakes look like English crumpets, lift them out with a skimmer, drain for a moment, and serve very hot, spread with butter or honey. The fat should have a strong pale blue vapour over it when you drop in the cake3. Another form of these cakes (known in France as galette de sarrasin) is made thus : Add one and a half tablespoonfuls of yeast and a pinch or two of salt to a quart of pure buckwheat flour (mind no rye, &c., is mixed with it), and pour it all into a deep basin with enough cold water to make it all into a nice smooth batter; then set this to rise in a warm (but not too hot) place till the next morning. When well risen, shape into rather thin cakes and bake on a hot girdle. Make them only the last thing at night, for if left to rise too long these cakes sometimes “sour.” Serve spread with butter or honey. Indian Corn Calces.—Mix together to a stiff paste Jib. of corn meal, one egg, |lb. of brown sugar, golden syrup, molasses, or treacle, as you choose, and a pinch of salt. At the last stir in quickly two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, pour the mixture into well-buttered tins, and bake twenty minutes in a sharp oven. Rice Cakes.—Boil a pint of rice till quite tender, when you add to it a teacupful of cornflour, two well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, and enough milk to make it all into a nice batter, then stir in quickly a tablespoonful of liquefied butter or lard, and bake on a hot girdle. Slim Cakes.—One pound of flour, two well-beaten eggs, loz. butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and as much warm (not hot) milk as will make it all into a paste. Knead this all well together, let it stand before the fire for half an hour to lighten, then roll it out, cut it into squares, dust these withROLLS, &c. 59 flour, and bake in the oven or on a girdle. Serve hot and buttered. Sly Calces.—Make a smooth paste with fib. flour, l£oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, a good pinch of spice, and enough cold water to work it all to a smooth, stiff paste, then roll it out three times, spreading loz. to 2oz. of fat on it each time, as in making puff pastry. Finally roll it out fairly thin, and cut it in squares or rounds. Cover half these with well-washed and dried currants that have been previously moistened with a little rum (a tablespoonful of rum for 4oz. of currants), cover with the rest of the pieces, press these lightly together sandwich fashion, brush them over with a tablespoonful of sugar dissolved with foz. of butter in two tablespoonfuls of milk (used whilst hot), and bake in a sharp oven. IJse hot or cold. Velvet Calces.—Dissolve 4oz. of butter and loz. of yeast in a quart of warm milk, stir into this six eggs, and work in enough fine flour to make a soft dough; let it rise in a warm place for two hours, shape the dough into round buns or cakes, flatten lightly on top with the palm of your hand, and set them on a well-buttered tin to rise again for a little, then bake in a quick oven. Muffins.—Sieve 4lb. of good flour; in about a quart of tepid half milk, half water, dissolve 2oz. German yeast, loz. sugar, and foz. of salt; when this is perfectly dissolved, work it into the flour to a thoroughly smooth batter, or soft dough, work it all together for about ten minutes longer, then set it to rise in a large pan. When it is nearly double its original size beat it up again for ten minutes, then let it rise again till ready. You will know when it is ready by the risen dough beginning to fall, when it must be at once taken up in small pieces, and formed into muffin shapes with your floured hands, then set these cakes in rows on a heavily floured hoard. Cover lightly with a blanket and leave in a warm corner to “ prove ” or rise, i.e.f until the top is risen in a kind of dome shape. Now60 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. slip each carefully on to hot iron plates (these should have been heated in the oven), and bake until the underside is slightly browned, when the muffins must be turned and baked on the other side. Be careful not to let the dough chill at any time of the making, and for this reason have everything ready before you begin, seeing to the oven and the heating of the iron plates; mind also to handle the muffins very carefully, or they will drop. Like crumpets, muffins are easy enough to make when you have caught the knack, but both require intelligent practice. To get tepid liquid of the right temperature use one part absolutely boiling to two parts cold water. Oatcake.—Mix lib. of medium oatmeal with four tea- spoonfuls of dripping or lard, and a teaspoonful of salt, with just enough warm water to make a dough. Knead it till smooth; then dust a board with dry oatmeal, press the dough out on this with the knuckles into a round cake, roll it out quite thin, bake it on a hot girdle till firm (first cutting it across twice into triangles), then lift them off, rub them over lightly with dry meal, and toast till crisp before the fire. When ready they will curl up. Heal oatcake should be made of meal and water only, but this is a little too Spartan for most tastes, hence the fat. The following hot cakes are A merican : Oatmeal Griddle Cakes.—Beat half a pint of milk into a pint of cold boiled oatmeal (porridge left over answers capitally), add half a teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of three eggs, and, lastly, half a pint of boiling water. Beat this well together, then sift in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and the stiffly-whisked whites of an egg; bake on a girdle or “griddle.” Rice Griddle Cakes.—Rub two breakfastcupfuls of cold boiled rice through a sieve, -work into it three well beaten eggs, then loz. of butter melted, and, lastly, a pint of milk and £lb. of flour ; beat this all to a smooth mass, mix61 ROLLS, &c. in'.thoroughly two heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and bake at once on a hot girdle. Stale Bread Girdle Cakes.—Soak a pint of stale bread- crumbs in a quart of milk for an hour, then beat it till smooth ; now beat into it, one by one, the well whisked yolks of two eggs, then work in a teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a thin batter, lastly add the stiffly whisked egg whites and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and bake quickly on a hot girdle. Hot Hoe Cakes.—Mix together half a teaspoonful of salt and a pint of cornmeal, then pour on this just enough boiling water to moisten it, and let it stand for ten minutes ; now add more boiling water, enough to make a batter that will drop (not pour) nicely from a spoon. Bake on a hot girdle or a “ hoe.” Serve hot with a piece of butter on each. Old Southern coloured cooks made the cakes on their “ hoes ” at a wooden fire, whence their name. Johnny Cakes.—Beat together three whole eggs till light, then add to them a pint of buttermilk, and lastly mix in a pint of Indian cornmeal, beating it well; dissolve a tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and add this, with a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of liquified butter, to the cornmeal batter; mix thoroughly, and pour it into a well buttered shallow baking tin (such as is used for Yorkshire pudding). Bake for thirty minutes in a fairly quick oven. In America a coarse hand-ground meal is used for this cake, but any coarsely ground corn meal will do. Mix together one pint of meal and a teaspoonful of salt, and make it to a stiff, smooth batter with boiling water. Now pour on sufficient cold milk to bring it to the consistency of sponge cake batter, and drop it in spoonfuls on a hot buttered girdle. When the underside is nicely coloured, turn the cakes and brown the other side. Serve hot and buttered. Maryland Cakes (also known as “Beaten Biscuit”).— Mix a teaspoonful of salt with a quart of flour, then rub62 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. into it with your hands a large teaspoonful of butter or lard; have ready mixed in a jug half a pint each of milk and water, and pour this gradually on to the flour, &c., working it all the time till it is a very stiff dough (be careful not to get it too wet or soft) ; knead this all well together for five minutes, then put it on a firm table or block, and beat it well with a rolling pin for half an hour, till it becomes brittle ; then form it into small round cakes half an inch thick, prick these with a fork, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. When ready they should be browned on the top, scarcely coloured at the sides, perfectly snow-white inside, and slightly cracked round the sides. Flannel Cake.—Rub 2oz. of butter smoothly into a quart of flour, then add a teaspoonful of salt, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and one and a half pints of milk; beat this all vigorously into the flour till smooth, when you mix in the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs and two teaspoon- fuls of baking powder. Bake quickly on a hot girdle. Or, dissolve over the fire two full tablespoonfuls of butter in a pint of sweet milk, and, when it is all dissolved, add in, off the fire, a pint of cold milk, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of potato yeast, and enough flour to make it all a stiff batter. Set it in a warm place to rise, for three hours; then add the well- whisked whites of the eggs, and bake on a hot greased girdle. The batter at the last should be just stiff enough to drop neatly from the spoon. “ Gems ” (Corn).—These derive their name chiefly from the small round moulds in which they are made, but tiny patty pans practically answer quite as well. Put into a basin ten full ounces of Indian cornmeal, make a bay in this, and put into it 2oz. fresh butter, pouring over it half a pint of abso- lutely boiling milk; stir it well together, then add half a pint of cold milk, three well-beaten eggs, a level (small) teaspoonful of salt, and 4oz. wheat flour. Beat this all well63 ROLLS, &c. together, then strew in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix it quickly together and bake in the buttered tins for half an hour, in a hot oven. “Gems” (Ice Water.)—Butter the pans, and set them to get hot in the oven; meanwhile pour a pint of ice water on to a teaspoonful of salt, and gradually strew into this (as if making porridge) l}lb. of Graham meal with one hand (held well above the pan), whilst beating it with the other. When it forms a smooth batter pour it into the buttered tins, which should be very hot, and bake at once for thirty minutes in a very hot oven. Pone.—Pour on to a quart of coarsely ground white Indian meal just enough boiling water to scald it thoroughly; stir it well, then let it stand till cold, when you work in loz. butter, a little salt, two well-beaten whole eggs, and, lastly, a pint of buttermilk or sour milk; beat- it all thoroughly till smooth. Now dissolve loz. bicarbo- nate of soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water, stir this into the mixture, turn the latter into a well-buttered baking pan, and bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. Popovers.—Set some small buttered patty pans in the oven to get very hot. Now add three whole eggs, beaten till light, to a pint of milk with half a teaspoonfnl of salt; pour this, when mixed, very gradually on to |lb. of flour, stirring it all the time to get a perfectly smooth batter, when you half fill the hot pans with the batter as quickly as you can, and bake twenty-five minutes in a sharp oven. If properly mixed and fired these cakes will rise to four times their original bulk. Some cooks strain the batter after mixing, but this is wasteful, and, if the milk was added gradually, quite unnecessary. These are all American recipes for favourite and easily prepared cakes. Pikelets.—Dissolve l£oz. of German yeast in a quart of warm milk, with a little salt, then add in enough dried and sifted flour to make it all a good batter; set this to rise forBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 64 half an hour, then stir to it a cupful cf liquefied butter (say from 4oz. to 6oz.), and when well blended pour this batter into rings previously set on a hot baking sheet and bake lightly on both sides. To use them toast them on both sides, being careful they do not burn, butter them gene- rously, cut them across, and serve hot and hot, on a very hot dish. Rolls {Kipfeln).—'These are a form of Austrian roll allied to the croissants, already given, In fact, in Germany the latter are usually known as Milch Kipfeln. If, when made up either into crescents or a kind of slender torpedo shape, these rolls are dipped in coarse table salt and carraway seeds, after brushing them over with milk, they are, when baked, known as Saltz Kipfeln. Kaiser semmel are made of the same dough as the other rolls (only remembering that for this purpose a teaspoonful of caster sugar and loz. more butter should be allowed to the pound of dough, as it needs to be a good deal firmer than if to be used in loaf making), shaped in little round rolls or cakes, which are then cut diagonally from the centre to the circumference five times, at equal distances, and baked in the usual way. Stillroom Rolls.—Just at bedtime set a sponge with one quart of half milk half water, as hot as you can comfortably bear the back of your hand in, not quite 2oz. of yeast creamed with a teaspoonful of sugar, and just enough fine sifted flour to make a nice batter. Now stir it up well, cover the pan (which should be a large one), and leave it in a warm corner till the next day. As soon as you come down in the morning powder loz. of fine salt and strew it over the top of the sponge, add half a pint of warm water, and rub 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and an egg into sufficient flour (about 81b.) to bring the sponge to a firm smooth dough ; work it all well together, and when of the right consistency cover the pan and again let the dough rise ; when well risen divide it into loz. or 2oz. pieces, shape these as you choose, set them on floured tins to rise for a few minutes, and bake in a hot65 ROLLS, &c. oven. These are very good as breakfast x’olls, and are also used for petits pains fourres; i.e., when wanted, a small piece is sliced off the under side, the crumb is scooped out with a teaspoon, and the space thus left is filled with any minced or potted meat, game, fish, &c., to taste. French Rolls.—Sift a teaspoonful of salt with a quart of flour, and work it all to a dough with two eggs, a table- spoonful of lard, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and enough milk to make it all a nice dough. Work this all well together, then leave it to rise in a warm corner till the morning, when you work it well again, divide it into rolls, and place them in proper French roll tins; let these rise again for a little, then bake in a quick oven. Mind these do not burn on the top, as they are apt to do, for then they must be rasped, which does not improve their appearance. These rolls are very good, but the inner dough is anything but digestible, so most housewives remove it in one piece if possible, these pieces being then torn apart into small divisions with two forks, baked till crisp, and served as the well known “ Pulled bread.” The light crumb of any bread may be used in this way, but the French roll crumb is perhaps the nicest. “ Gem ” Rolls.—Beat an egg till light, then add to it half a teaspoonful of salt and a pint of milk, and mix this all gradually into a pint of flour. Bake in buttered “gem” or small patty pans. These should be made of Graham flour. Cape Rolls.—Sift together 2lb. flour, a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and a little salt; mix this all to the consistency of light bread dough with sour or buttermilk, knead this well, cut it into pieces, shape into little rolls, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. Bran Rolls.—Mix together one and a half teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda with 6oz. of bran flour; cream 4-oz. of butter, and shake the bran and soda into it, beating it well, then add very gradually seven eggs (previously beaten F66 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS near the fire till light and milk warm), and when it is all mixed beat it well together for fully ten minutes, adding gradually half a pint warm milk ■ put it into well buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, make little loaves with a dough composed of 4oz. gluten floui’, loz. prepared bran flour, a teaspoonful of salt, one and a half table- spoonfuls of yeast, and a little warm water, and bake in a moderate oven. Parker House Rolls.—These, like the following recipes, are also American. Mix half a teaspoonful of salt with a quart of flour, then work into it a good tablespoonful of butter or lard. Dissolve one-sixth of an ounce of compressed jeast in a gill of warm water; scald half a pint of milk; then, off the fire, dissolve in it 2oz. or so of sugar, and mix into this, when it is tepid, the dissolved yeast; make a hollow in the flour, &c., and pour into this the milk, yeast, &c., drawing a little flour down from the sides over the batter. Now cover this well, and set it aside to rise. If you set this sponge at 5 p.m., stir the whole thoroughly together with a spoon about 10 p.m., then next morning turn this dough on to a pastry board, and roll it out evenly about half an inch thick. Lift this sheet of dough off the board and let it shrink as much as it will before cutting it out with a plain cutter or a tumbler; place a small piece of butter on one side, and double the other over so that the edges meet; set these cakes to rise for two hours, then bake twenty minutes in a sharp oven. If these rolls are wanted for tea, set the sponge early in the morning—nearly double the amount of yeast given above will be required in this case. Brioche Rolls.—Make a sponge with 4oz. flour, a pinch of salt, £oz. yeast, and half a gill of tepid milk, working it into a smooth dough. Knead it well together, then let it rise in a basin in a warm corner for thirty minutes or so. Meanwhile, mix together fib. of flour, ilb. butter, a short ),oz. caster sugar, a tablespoonful of warm water, and three whole eggs; work this all well together, mixing in the eggs67 ROLLS, &c. •well, then add two more eggs, and again knead these in, repeating the eggs and the kneading once more. Then beat it well for ten minutes till it is a smooth batter, and mix in the sponge when enough risen; knead it in well, and let it all stand for two hours till it is quite twice its original size. Take off a piece of this dough (about one quarter), and shape the rest into eight or ten balls, flattening each with the palm of your hand, and making a slight hollow in the top; make the rest of the dough up into smaller balls the size of a marble, and set one on each of the others (like a miniature cottage loaf), fixing it with a little water. Put these tiny loaves on a buttered baking sheet, sprinkle with a little water, and set them aside in a warm place to rise again. Now brush them over with whole beaten egg, and bake about half an hour in a moderate oven. Dust with vanilla sugar or with salt, according to what you want them for, and serve cold. These rolls soon get dry, so they should be made fresh and fresh. It is worth knowing that if half ordinary fine flour and half Coomb’s Eureka (self-raising) flour is used no yeast is needed. Sally Lunn’s Teacakes.-—Mix together 14oz. flour (one pint), the yolks of two eggs, a large table-poonful of yeast (or not quite $oz. German yeast), a pinch of salt, and as much warm milk (in which you have dissolved oz. butter) as will work it to a nice dough. Let it stand for an hour by the fire to rise (it must be very light), shape it into rounds, and bake in rings on a baking tin for fifteen to twenty minutes in a slow oven. Slice whilst hot, and butter generously with warmed butter. Before baking, glaze with the following: Put a spoonful or two of moist sugar in a basin, and pour over it enough boiling milk to dissolve it; or use egg. Proper Sally Lunns have no sugar. Mix a pinch of salt with l^lb. of flour in a bowl, and rub 4oz. of butter into it. Dissolve loz. of fresh German yeast in half a pint of tepid milk, and stir this and a little68 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. sugar gradually into the flour; work it all to a smooth dough, adding two lightly beaten eggs. Divide the dough into four, put it into round buttered tins, cover these with a clean cloth, and leave them in a warm place to rise ; when almost three times their original size bake in a quick oven. Sally Lunn's Teacakes (a Farmhouse Recipe).—Mix together one pint warm milk, loz. fresh batter, |oz. sugar, two large or three small eggs, half a cup of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in well-buttered rings for an hour. Rusks (Boer).—This recipe was procured from S. Africa during the war, the rusks (found in the Boer camps) having been much appreciated by the British soldiers : “ To 31b. of flour mix £lb. fresh butter, £Lb. white cane sugar, and a teacupful of yeast. Knead well at night with fresh, warm milk. The sponge should rise well by morning, when you knead it again, and make it into buns ; set these to rise, then bake. When the oven is cool, cut each bun in half, put them on tins, and let them remain all night in the cooling oven till crisp. These make delicious rusks. For the yeast, pour about two andahalf pints of boiling water on to |oz. of hops, cover and leave in a warm corner for twelve hours; then strain, and stir in two tablespoonfuls each of flour and sugar. This yeast will be ready for use next day. A little old yeast helps the fermentation.” Scones.—These cakes are usually (and best) cooked on a girdle or griddle, i.e., a round iron plate, with an arched handle over it—the girdle being formerly hung to the pot-hook fastened in the chimney, by which the large cooking pot was suspended above the fire. This girdle is still generally used in the North, but failing one a clean shallow frying pan kept for the purpose answers very well. Neither pan nor girdle should ever be washed, but when you have done using either, sprinkle well with coarse salt, and rub it with pieces of paper till the latter is no longer soiled; this removes any burnt crumbs that may be sticking to it, which wouldROLLS, &c. 69 spoil the next baking. Before use wipe the girdle well with a cloth, set it on the fire till thoroughly hot, when it is rubbed over either with a piece of fat or butter, when it is ready for use. Some scones can only be baked on the girdle, others can be baked in the oven. Scones.—Sift together lib. of flour and two good tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, then crumble into this about 3oz. of butter, till it is all like fine bread-crumbs (this must be done with the tips of the fingers as lightly as possible, or the scones will be heavy). Take half a pint of cold milk (or dissolve a teaspoonful of Swiss milk in half a pint of cold water) and work this by degrees into the flour, &c., till it is a firm dough; halve this dough, and knead each into a flat round cake about the size of a cheese plate; cut it across into quarters, brush it over with a little milk and water. Rub a baking tin with flour (or flour, but do not grease, the girdle', and cook the cakes on this for half an hour. If you use the frying pan for these cakes instead of a girdle, put a couple of bricks, one on each side the opening of the range, and place the frying pan on these so that it does not actually rest on the fire. These are not as good baked in the oven as on the girdle. New York.—Beat together %oz. bicarbonate of soda and -{oz. of salt to three pints of milk, then add in five whole eggs; stir this all into 2|lb. of fine flour; butter some small patty tins, put a good tablespoonful of the mixture into each, and bake in a good oven. Brownmeal.—Mix together thoroughly 4oz. each of flour and fine oatmeal, a quarter of a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and the same of salt; now work into it enough skim milk or milk and water (about half a pint) to bring it all to a smooth elastic dough. Knead this lightly till it neither sticks to your hands nor to the basin, then roll it out, not too thick, and stamp it out with a cutter (a tumbler or a saucepan lid will do) according to the size you wish yourBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 70 scones to be. Have the girdle hot but ungreased, place the cakes on it, and let them cook for about five minutes, when they should have risen well and the surface be quite smooth; then turn them and cook for five minutes longer till the other side is equally done (they should only be a very pale colour). These cakes may be baked in a hot oven, turning them as above, but though nice enough in this way, they have not the same taste as if cooked on the girdle. Scones, Cream —Mix together lib. of flour and a tea- spoonful each of salt and baking powder, beat two eggs till light and mix them with a gill of cream or new milk, and stir this into the flour till it is a stiff dough (some flours require a little more cream or milk). Turn this dough out on to a floured board, roll it out fin. thick, stamp it out in small rounds with a tumbler, prick the top with a fork, and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Serve hot. Mix together fib. of flour, loz. of butter, and a teaspoonful each of baking powder and sugar (or salt); rub the butter well into the flour till it forms a nice paste, moistening this with half a pint of new milk or single cream; divide this quantity in two, roll these halves into largish rounds, which are cut across and across into eight triangles, and bake for five minutes, turning them once, on the girdle. If you have no cream or new milk, use 2oz. of butter and swreet milk. Mix together one and a half breakfastcupfuls of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and a tea- spoonful of sugar ; mix this all to a paste with clotted or very thick cream (it takes about half a pint', halve the dough, roll each half into a thin round cake, cut these across and across into eight triangles, put these on a lightly buttered baking tin, and bake on the hot plate (not the oven) for five minutes, turning them once. (This is an English West Country recipe.171 ROLLS, &c. Scones, Dropped.—Mix together a breakfastcupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and a teaspoonful of baking powder (better still, use a quarter of a teaspoonful tartaric acid and three-quarters of a teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda, rubbing the lumps out of the latter till it is quite smooth), beat up an egg till light and mix it into this batter, then add in the same way, very gradually, a small breakfastcupful of milk, beating it all well together for a few minutes with the back of a spoon. Prepare your girdle as above, and drop the mixture in spoonfuls on to the hot girdle, being careful to keep them a nice round shape and some distance apart, so that they do not touch one another in cooking. When the top surface is bubbled all over, slip a broad knife under the cake and turn it. When both sides are nicely browned the cake is ready. It should only be turned once. A spoonful of the batter makes a cake, for it spreads a good deal as it touches the girdle. Mix half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda quite smooth with a quarter teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a little salt, and two full breakfast cups of flour; rub into this about 2oz. of butter, and sufficient buttermilk to make a thick and fairly stiff batter. Beat this well with a wooden spoon. Bake on a hot girdle, and finish off as before. Irish.—lib. of flour, loz. of butter, a piece of lard the size of a walnut, sugar to taste, and just enough milk beaten up with two eggs to make it all into a nice dough (one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder should be sifted in among the flour) ; the cakes should be mixed quickly, made into the size and shape of a muffin, baked sixteen minutes in a quick oven, and turned occasionally, as they burn very quickly. Split, butter, and serve very hot. Lito.—Bub 5oz. of butter or lard into 2lb. of Lito flour, then add to this two eggs well beaten with 3oz. of caster sugar’, a pint and a quarter of milk, and a very little salt; make it all to a smooth dough, roll it out, stampBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 72 out in round cakes, wash these over with milk or egg, and bake in a shai'p oven. (Lito is a new flour brought out by the Hovis Co., and is extremely useful for cakes, bread, and puddings of all kinds.) Scones, Barleymeal.—Mix a little salt with as much fresh barleymeal as you choose, and mix it to a stiff paste with hot milk. Roll this out in thick round cakes, cut into four, and bake on a greased girdle or a quick oven. Butter and serve hot. A level teaspoonful of baking powder to the pound of meal improves these greatly. Soda.—Rub together half a teaspoonful each of salt and cream of tartar with nearly a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and lib. of flour ; make this all to a soft, lithe dough with buttermilk, knead it for a little on a floured pastry board, roll it out about £in. thick, shape it into round cakes (a clean saucepan lid is a capital cutter), cut each across into four, and bake on a not too hot floured girdle. Sour Milk.—Add a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to a pint of sour milk or cream, and when this is thoroughly dissolved add to it not quite 7oz. of butter or lard, and sufficient flour to make it all a soft dough; now roll it out into cakes large enough to fit the girdle, or the pan they are to be cooked in (or a well-floured and delicately clean frying pan can be used) ; turn as soon as one side is cooked, and when the other side is ready lift the cake off, split and butter it generously, put the two pieces together again, cut it into four, and serve either cold or warm, but not hot. If liked, sieved jam or pulped fruit may be spread with the butter ; or cream may replace the latter. When tiny wood strawberries (or, indeed, any other small berries, such as bilberries, dewberries, &c.), dusted with caster sugar and sprinkled with lemon juice, are used with the cream instead of the jam, this scone is the well-known American strawberry short cake. (This is an American recipe.)ROLLS, &c. 73 Scones, Yorkshire.—This, also sometimes called “York- shire girdle cake,” is made thus : mix Jib. dried and sifted flour to a dough with sour cream, make it into a large round cake the size of the girdle or pan, and bake on both sides (turning it only once) on a hot greased girdle or pan, then split it, butter generously, and serve hot. This is never a success if baked in an oven. Coomb’s.—Into Jib. of Coomb’s Eureka flour rub 2oz. of butter, and make it into a dough with a gill of curdled cream or sour milk; roll it out rather thin, stamp out into rounds with a tumbler, and bake on the girdle, turning it once in the process.CHAPTER IV. CAKES. Cake-making of old was a decidedly formidable under- taking, not only because of the Homeric ideas of food then prevalent, but from the amount of actual hai'd, physical labour such a season of baking entailed. Baking powder was not in those days, and ingredients were whipped and beaten to an extent that would send the most willing cook of to-day on strike. Butter was always creamed by hand, the sugar (loaf) had to be “beaten fine/’ every ingredient almost was beaten in singly (great stress is laid in nearly every old recipe on the importance of incessant beating or “ working ”) ; and then it is a great chance if the directions do not run after all this : “ and beat this well for an hour.” Now, without wishing to bring back such kitchen athletics as tbe3e old methods imply, it would be well if we were to pay a little more heed to such things, and not trust so much to artificial labour-savers; no cake raised by chemicals, perfunctorily mixed, with butter warmed to save the trouble of beating, and egg powder to obviate both the expense and the labour of using eggs, will taste as did the cakes made in the wholesome old way by good honest work. The plainer the cake, the easier it is to mix and to fire. To begin with the mixing of a cake. As a general rule, the butter should first of all be beaten (either by hand or a very clean wooden spoon) till quite light andCAKES. 75 creamy ; now beat in the sugar, and then the yolks of the eggs, one or two at a time, for if mixed in too many at once they are liable to thin the mixing suddenly, and to curdle it. When these are all thoroughly amalgamated, work in the dry ingredients, adding the flour (into which, when used, the baking powder should be sifted) at the last—the reason for this is that directly the baking powder is put in, the cake should be turned into the tin and baked as soon as possible, as the moment the powder is moistened it begins to effervesce, and it is on this effervescence the lightness of the cake depends, so that if it has passed off before the cake gets into the oven, the latter will be heavy. When baking powder is not used, and whites of eggs are, these latter should be beaten as stiff as possible, and mixed in at the last quickly and lightly, alternately with the flour. Cakes made with yeast are, on the contrary, all the better for being allowed to rise a little before baking. Mixing cannot be too carefully done, for it has a great deal to say to the success of the cake. See that your ingredients are the best you can afford, in good condition, and ready at hand in the quantities required. In cold weather, when the butter is hard, it may be lightly warmed to make it easier to work, but on no account melt it. If you do, your cake will inevitably be heavy. Unless the butter is thoroughly beaten into the rest of the ingredients, the cake when baked will be streaky, with greasy smears through it where there has been an unmixed lump of butter. This is the reason why good cake-makers always beat their butter to a cream, as this ensures the due mixing of the materials. With regard to pastry butter, theoretically, it should be the best and freshest; practically butter that is not fit for table use from its tastelessness, &c., is, as long as it is not rancid, perfectly good for pastry and cakes. Indeed, dripping, lard, and, last and best, beef marrow, will all make excellent cakes, &c. In fact, for household and nursery use, well clarified dripping should always be used, both for puddings/b BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. and pies, and for cakes. Of course, beef dripping is meant; mutton dripping, though an excellent frying medium, being apt to impart a disagreeable “tang” to anything in which it is allowed to cool. Of eggs a word or two must be said. Fresh, though not necessarily new laid, eggs are indispensable in cake making. They should always be broken into a cup separately, before mixing them in, for the slightest mustiness would affect the cake, and though the cause of the disagreeable taste might not be discovered, the unpleasant flavour would be there. Flour should always be good, and should be warmed and sifted before use, a process which often renders an ordinary flour superior to the finest, that has been carelessly mixed in cold and lumpy. White sugar should be used for sponge and other delicate cakes, but for household, pound, or fruit cakes which are to be dark, brown sugar answers quite as well. Eernember, however, that the dark colour of rich cakes, such as wedding, birthday, and pound cakes, is not so much a question of white or brown sugar, as of the richness of the materials allowed to mellow by keeping. Fruit for cakes should always be carefully picked over, all stones, stalks, &c., removed and in the case of currants they should be well was lied in hot water, and rubbed thoroughly dry in a clean lightly floured cloth. But recollect this washing process should be executed sufficiently long before the cake-making comes off to ensure the fruit being absolutely dry and cold before it is added to the mixture. Many a mysteriously spoilt cake is due to the washing of the currants at the last minute, when they are used either insufficiently dry, or hot from the oven into which they have been thrust to dry them. Candied peel being most indigestible, should, when mixed with a cake, be shred as fine and as thin as possible. Almonds also should be blanched some time before they are used, to ensure their being cold and crisp when shred. When used to garnish a cake whole, they look prettiest if sliced throughCAKES. 77 broad ways, to secure as wide a flat surface as possible, in contrast to the narrow strips produced when they are “ shredded,” as it is technically called. When baking powder is used, be sure to have the best. There are many kinds in the market, and unfortunately there are many qualities. Choose a good maker, such as Borwick, Cowan, &c., and stick to that. Only remember it must be kept in an airtight tin, in a dry place, for if it once gets damp it is done for. If you do not feel sure of getting good fresh baking powder, make it yourself. The propor- tions are lOoz. finest ground rice, 9oz. bicarbonate of soda, and 8oz. tartaric acid. Buy these ingredients and keep them separate, in tightly stoppered bottles, and mix as required. They keep much better separate than when mixed. To test baking powder, mix a little with a drop or two of water ; if it effervesces it is good, but is spoilt if it does not bubble up. With regard to the oven, it must be remembered that it should be hot at first and allowed to get cooler later on, when the cakes have risen. An oven that is too hot is better than one that is too cold certainly; still, it is best to try and get it right before trusting the cake to it. Ovens require study, for they vary greatly from all sorts of causes, and, unless watched, this varying will spoil the cake. Large ovens, brick ones especially, are the most reliable, small iron ones vary most. Remember, with these latter the very putting in of a large cake will alter the temperature of the oven perceptibly, and so will the mere opening of the door. Sponge cake and gingerbread are especially liable to suffer from this. Indeed, the former resents the very shutting of the door, and, if it is slammed, the cake inside is pretty sure to be deteriorated. Again, some ovens are apt to burn at the bottom, in which case stand your cake tin on two pieces of firewood, or even a little trivet, being careful to paper the mould well. Others, again, burn at the top, in which case a covering of butteredBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 78 paper is indispensable to the cake. By the bye, one way in which cooks sometimes spoil their cakes is this: In their anxiety to have the oven right they overheat it; then the cake begins to burn; they rush to the oven, lift out the cake, and set it on the floor, when the sudden change of temperature at once causes the cake to fall, never to rise properly again. It is wonderful on what minutiae success in cake-making depends—almost enough to make one share most cooks’ belief that the oven is possessed by a spirit, on whose whims the baking depends. The real spirit, however, is the cook’s temperament and the state of the weather. It is not always easy, or even advisable, in many cases to give the exact time cakes will take to bake, as this will vary from many causes; therefore, the best way is always to test yoiar cake before removing it from the oven. For this purpose take a long thin wooden skewer, and run it down right to the centre of the cake. If it comes out dry and clean the cake is done; if, on the contrary, it sticks and is wet, the cake needs longer baking. Some people use a knife for this purpose, but this is not to be recommended, as with some cakes the mei’e touch of the knife is sufficient to “ sadden ” them. There is one more point to be considered about cakes, and that is their decoration. For ordinary purposes a little caster sugar lightly dusted over the top is plenty, but at other times a little beaten white of egg may be brushed over them, and the surface, thus moistened, sprinkled with chopped almonds or cocoanut, or roughly crushed sugar. Besides these garnishes there are the icings and glaces. The difference between these two lies in the fact that the first is raw, while the latter is cooked. Of icing, there are two kinds, the one known as “royal icing,” sometimes called “ French cream,” and the “ Vienna icing.” The first is made of finest icing sugar, mixed with unbeaten white of egg and strained lemon juice, in the proportion of fifteen79 CAKES. to sixteen eggs and a full tablespoonful of lemon juice, to 51b. of icing sugar. This icing can, of course, be coloured as desired. For Vienna icing rub together till smooth lOoz. of icing sugar and 4oz. of fresh butter, then mix in a small wine- glassful of any spirit or liqueur to taste, work it till quite creamy, and use. Viennese chocolate icing is made in the same way, only using Jib. icing sugar, Jib. of fresh butter, and 4oz. finely powdered chocolate. For Glace stir together, over the fire till warm, fib. of icing sugar with three full tablespoonfnls of any flavouring liqueur or syrup to taste, and use. This must not be made over hot, or it will be lumpy and dull. Chocolate Glace is made by cooking 2oz. of vanilla choco- late with a gill of water till it is perfectly smooth, then stir into it a pound of icing sugar and three tablespoonfuls of warm water; just warm it up and use. The point to be observed about these cooked icings is that they must be only just warm enough to flow nicely, and perfectly smooth. When making icing the very best cane icing sugar is imperative, for unless the pure sugar is used the icing will never be either smooth or glossy. Coffee Glace is made by mixing lb. of cane icing sugar with three full dessertspoonfuls of strong black coffee, or coffee essence, and three dessertspoonfuls of hot water; let it warm and use. Tea Glace is made in the same way, only using tea instead of coffee. Rum Glace is made in the same way, only using three tablespoonfuls of rum (or, indeed, any other spirit) and the same quantity of hot water to fib. icing sugar. Almond Icing.—Mix ljlb. of very finely-chopped almonds with lib. 14oz. of finest cane icing sugar; add to this the raw whites of three or four eggs, a wineglassful of brandy, rum, liqueur, or lemon j uice, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and work to a stiff, dry paste.80 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Boiled Icing.—Boil together |lb. caster sugar in a gill of boiling water till it will “thread” strongly, then beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, when you add in a quarter of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and, lastly, beat in the sugar syrup. Beat it all till cold and thick, flavour to taste, and use. It must be understood that I claim no originality for the following cakes. They have mostly appeared in the columns of the Queen, and have been collected from all sorts of sources. The only thing I can claim is that, granted fair intelligence and good will, they are not difficult to make. Cake, Alexandra.—Cream together lib. of butter, 4oz. lard, loz. of “vol.,” and e'ght eggs beaten till light, with lOoz. moist sugar ; mix together in another basin 4oz. freshly ground almonds, fib. flour, and 4oz. finely shred lemon peel candied. Mix well and bake in a square tin — such as is used for tin loaf. Almond.—Beat £lb. of butter to a cream with rather more than 12oz. of caster sugar ; when this is quite creamed work in carefully, one or two at a time, lib. of eggs (this is about eight or nine, but it is best to weigh them); now work in 14oz. fine flour mixed with a short tea- spoonful of baking powder, l^oz. ground almonds, and a few drops of essence of almonds. Mix well and quickly, and bake at once in well papered hoops or tins, with some shredded almonds sprinkled over the top. If baked in lib. tins these cakes take thirty-five minutes, if in 2lb. tins they will require fifty minutes. Blanch and pound loz. bitter almonds, and beat them to the yolks of twelve eggs, beaten till light with a spoonful or two of rose water, then mix into them lib. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar ; next incorporate into this alternately the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and lib. of freshly ground sweet almonds, lastly stirring in five good tablespoonfuls of pounded and sifted biscuit81 CAKES. crumbs. Pour the mixture into a well buttered mould, and bake for one hour and a half in a moderate oven, covering the cake with a buttered paper. (This is an old Dutch recipe. Calce, Almond Saccharin.—Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately, then stir into the yolks 5oz. of freshly ground almonds, add a pinch each of salt and saccharin, and, lastly, mix in the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, and bake in well-buttered patty pans till of a light brown. Some roughly chopped almonds can be strewn on the top of the cakes. Be careful the cakes do not burn. The difficulty about these cakes generally lies in the almond flour. The ordinary ground almonds are seldom fine enough to be perfectly satisfactory, and, more- over, are often not over fresh, so where invalid diet is in question it is best to grind the nuts at home in this way : Blanch the almonds, and let them stand till perfectly dry (if used at once they are too soft to grate well), then rub or grate them through a fine wire sieve till they are in a fine powder; the bits left over at the ends that will not grate can be utilised for decorating the cakes. Angel Food.—Dry and sift 4oz. of fine flour with a tsaspoonful of cream of tartar; beat the whites of eleven eggs to the stiffest possible froth, and mix them lightly and quickly with 12oz. sifted sugar; now stir in the flour, add at the last a teaspoonful of rose or orange flower water ( this is a matter of taste), and bake in an unbuttered, pan for forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. When baked lift the cake out of the oven, turn the mould upside down on a reversed sieve, and leave it till the cake drops out of itself. Balmoral.—Cream together 111b. of caster sugar and lib. of butter till white and thick; now mix in, one by one, twelve eggs, beating in each before adding the next; then work in loz. carraway seeds and 2oz. finely shred candied peel; lastly stir in as quickly as possible a short GBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 82 quartern of flour and one and a half pints of milk. As soon as this is amalgamated put the mixture into well- buttered tins and bake at once, or the effervescence will subside and the cake become heavy. This cake does not keep long. If preferred, lib. sultanas, £lb. of currants, a tiny pinch of mixed spice, and loz. or 2oz. finely shred candied peel may be used instead of the seeds, adding as above, before putting in the flour. Cake, Birthday.—Beat lib. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, then work in five eggs singly, mixing each well into the butter, &c., before adding the next; now stir in lflb. of mixed candied peel, shred as fine as possible (this peel is most indigestible, so requires careful shredding), 21b. well washed and dried currants (many persons prefer sultanas as being more wholesome), and lib. of ground almonds; when all these are thoroughly worked together, mix in lib. of best flour, previously sifted with loz. mixed ground spice, and pour in a glassful of French brandy, when the cake will be ready for firing Bake, in a well-papered hoop, on a baking tin strewn with bran or sawdust to keep the cake from burning. It requires a hot, steady oven. It is not possible always to give the exact time these cakes will take to bake, so the best way is always to test them. Like all rich fruit cakes, this one should be kept for some time before cutting, and may be served either plain, glazed with a little sugar, or coated with almond and royal icing, or any glace preferred, and garnished with sweets, dried fruits, &c. Bordeaux.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream with a pound of caster sugar, then work in, one or two at a time, eight large or nine small eggs, and, lastly, lib. 4oz. of sifted flour, with a few drops of essence of lemon, colouring it with a little tincture of saffron prepai'ed as for a baba. Bake in a moderate oven, in square or oblong tins three inches deep. When cold, slice the cakes, and spread the shoes with apricot or any other nice jam beaten83 CAKES. up with a little thick cream, replace the cake in shape, and cover it well and evenly with the following’ glace : Put into a delicately clean pan fib. best icing sugar, with three tablespoonfuls of noyeau or noyeau syrup, stir it over the fire till just warm, and then use. Cake, Bread.—Work into a quartern of good bread dough (any baker will supply this), Jib. of sultanas, 4oz. moist sugar, 4oz. fresh butter or clarified dripping, a little powdered cinnamon, and a grate of nutmeg. Bake in a well-buttered mould or tin. Breakfast.—Rub 12oz. of butter into 4lb. of flour, and mix it well with lilb. washed and dried currants, 4oz. sugar, a dust of mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt, three- quarters of a pint of warmed cream or new milk, half a gill of brandy, three small eggs, and half a pint good ale yeast. Mix well together, and bake in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for quite three months. Cherry.—Cream together lib. butter and 11b. caster sugar, then add in, one by one, ten to twelve eggs, beating in each well before adding the next. Then stir in lib. of halved and dried cherries, and 4oz. of finely shred citron peel, with a few drops of essence of lemon. Dissolve Joz. powdered ammonia in half a gill of milk, and add it with ljlb. of dried and sifted flour to the previous mixture, pour it all quickly into buttered moulds and bake. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with Jib. caster sugar, work in, two or three at a time, the yolks of nine eggs, then stir in Jib. of ground rice or creme de riz. Jib. sifted flour, 4oz. ground sweet almonds, 2oz. shredded candied angelica. Jib. crystallised cherries, and the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake, and, when cold, ice the top of the cake thinly, and sprinkle it with blanched pistachios. Sift together half a teaspoonful of baking powder and Jib. of fine flour, add to this a pinch of salt, 4oz. each butter, sugar, and dried cherries, either whole or G 2BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 84 halved, with the finely grated rind of half a small lemon, and, if liked, an ounce of shredded candied peel; now beat together the yolks of two eggs with two or three table- spoonfuls of milk till perfectly blended, and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Moisten the dry ingredients with the egg and milk, and stir in the whites lightly and thoroughly, pour into a papered mould (or one buttered, and strewed with equal parts of flour and sifted sugar), and bake at once. Be careful not to make the cake too moist in the first instance, or it will be heavy. Mix the eggs with just two spoonfuls of milk, and then add a little more milk, if necessary, afterwards. Cake, Chocolate.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, mix in 2oz. powdered vanilla chocolate and 4oz. caster sugar ; work this all together for ten minutes, then mix in gradually and alternately four whole eggs and 4oz. fine flour. Work it all again for fifteen minutes this time, then pour the mixture into a buttered and papered mould previously dusted with sugar and flour, and bake half an hour. When perfectly cold, ice it with chocolate glace and ornament it with pink and white sugar almonds. For the glace, cook loz. of vanilla chocolate (grated) in half a gill of water till smooth, then mix it with Jib. of icing sugar and one and a half tablespoonfuls of warm water; just -warm it up (do not let it get too hot, or the icing will be dull), and pour it over the cake. Make a cake with Jib. of creamed butter, lib. of sugar, four eggs, lib. (Eureka) flour, and half a pint of milk. Bake this in two tins that match exactly, and, when baked and cold, spread one with the following mixture : Beat |lb. of icing sugar to a smooth paste with the whites of three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of grated vanilla chocolate; place the other cake on the top of this filling, and ice the whole with the same icing as you used for the filling. Some almonds blanched, shredded, and baked a light golden brown are an improvement if stirred into the icing used for filling.85 CAKES. Cake, Chocolate, Little.—Whisk the whites of seven eggs to the stiffest possible froth, then mix into this lib. of caster sugar and 4oz. finely powdered chocolate, previously sifted together; drop this mixture in spoonfuls on to a well buttered paper, let it stand for an hour to dry before putting it into the oven, which must not be over hot, and bake for ten or twelve minutes. Do not remove from the paper till perfectly cold. Cocoanut.—Beat |lb. of butter to a cream with lib. of sugar, and then work in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs; now stir in |lb. of flour, 4oz. desiccated cocoanut, and finally the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture into a buttered cake tin, previously dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar1, and bake in a slow oven. Turn it out, and, when quite cold, slice it, spread each slice with royal icing thickly sprinkled with cocoanut, put it back into shape again, and ice it with royal icing all over, garnishing it, when nearly set, with pink and white cocoa- nut. For the royal icing, work l|lb. of best icing sugar to a smooth, thick paste with the whites of four eggs and a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice, working it for fifteen to twenty minutes with a clean wooden spoon, then spread with a wetted palette knife or a broad ordinary knife old enough to be flexible. Cakes must be perfectly cold before they are iced, and twenty-four hours should, if possible, be allowed between the icing and the decoration. When available, freshly grated cocoanut may he used instead of the desiccated, using the finely grated white part of one large, or two small, nuts. Coffee.—Put into a pan four raw eggs, with two dessertspoonfuls of strong, freshly-made coffee and 6oz. caster sugar ; whip these on the fire over boiling water till warm, then lift it off and continue the whipping till the mixture is cold and as thick as well whipped cream ; now add gradually 4oz. fine warmed flour, loz. ground rice or creme, de riz, and loz. of baking powder. Brush a mould86 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. over with butter, dust it with equal parts of flour and sugar, knock the tin on the table to remove any superfluous flour or sugar, pour in the mixture, and bake about thirty minutes in a modex-ate oven. Let this cake stand for a minute or two in the tin before turning it out, and either serve plain, dusted with caster sugar, or ice it with coffee glace, and ornament with pink and white Viennese icing.— Coffee Glace: Stir 6oz. of caster sugar over the fire, with three dessertspoonfuls each of coffee and hot water, till smooth and warm, and use.— Viennese Icing : Work 5oz. icing sugar smooth with 2oz. of fresh butter, then mix in a liqueurglassful of either maraschino or Cognac till it is like a cream. Colour part rose pink with a few drops of liquid carmine. Apply this last icing with a rose pipe, after the first glace is thoroughly set. Blanched and split almonds are also used to garnish this cake. Cake, Coffee.—Jib. of butter, 6oz. brown sugar, three eggs, -{lb. of flour, one large teaspoonful of cloves, the same of allspice and of grated nutmeg, thi'ee ditto of cinnamon, 2lb. of raisins, fib. of currants, 4oz. citron peel, (ioz. molasses, half a pint of warm black coffee, and a full tablespoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, add the eggs, then the flour and spice, beating it all together vigorously; mix the citron (shredded) with the washed and stoned raisins and the well-cleansed and dried currants, flour them all well, and add them into the cake. Mix in the coffee and the molasses, stiri’ing it thoi’oughly together, then the baking powder, and pour it into a cake tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a very moderate oven. Cream (Tarte a la creme).—Mix Jib. fine flour with 2oz. caster sugar; now beat 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream, and work in one whole egg, then work this into the flour and sugar. Have ready a round tart tin, with straight sides, flour it, and line it with this paste (a fleur ring would do), pinching up the edges well. Now pour into thisCAKES. 87 rather thick custard made with half a pint thick cream, three whole eggs, 4oz. of sugar, and a little vanilla or any other flavouring preferred. Bake this half an hour in a quick oven, and serve hot or cold, sprinkled with “ hundreds and thousands ” or with vanilla sugar. If served cold, cut the cake into wedge-shaped pieces from the centre. Be careful when baking this cake to ensure due bottom heat, or the paste will be heavy. Cake, Currant.—2lb. of good clarified dripping or marrow fat, 21b. of Demerara sugar, 4lb. of currants, 71b. of flour, 3oz. of baking powder, and a few drops of prepared turmeric. Mix as before, moistening with a little butter- milk. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours for a 4lb. size. This makes a really excellent nursery or school cake. Or : lib. of flour rubbed to crumbs with a pinch of salt, a dessertspoonful of baking powder, and 4oz. of butter, clarified dripping, or marrow fat; when quite dry and powdery, mix in 4oz. of moist sugar, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, loz. of shred candied peel, and a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly to a stiff paste with either milk or water. Delicate.—Take 4oz, of creamed fresh butter. Jib. sugar, lib. well washed and dried currants, 21b. of flour sifted with Joz. carbonate of soda, and a pint of new milk. Mix this well and bake in a hot oven as soon as it is mixed. Diet.—Take the weight of nine eggs in sugar, the weight of five in flour; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and the yolks till quite light, then mix them, stir in the sugar, the flour, and a few carraway seeds, and beat it all well together. Bake in a well papered hoop. —— Dough.—This is an excellent cake for school treats, &c., and if carefully made is very good. For every 41b. of bread dough (risen ready for making up into loaves), allow Jib. of butter or good clarified dripping, 12oz. sugar, two eggs, a dust of mixed spice, a gill of hot water, and 3lb. currants or sultanas, or mixed; lay the dough on a well88 BREAD. CAKES, AND BISCUITS. floured board, and work into it vigorously the butter, eggs, sugar, spice, and water, rubbing it all in smoothly, breaking and tearing up the dough to get it evenly mixed, and at the last mix in the fruit lightly, without any rubbing this time as it breaks the fruit and makes the cake unsightly. When perfectly mixed three-quarter fill buttered tins with the mixture, let it rise for twenty minutes or so in a warm place, then bake in a cool oven. The secret of success in these cakes lies entirely in the mixing. If a richer cake is desired use Vienna dough, cherries, and elace fruit, &c. Cake, Dripping.—Sift together lib. of flour and one tea- spoonful of baking powder; then rub well into it Jib. of nice clarified dripping, and next mix in a teacupful of moist sugar, loz. carraway seeds, and ilb. well-washed and dried currants. When these are mixed in, whip three eggs with about half a pint of milk, and beat this mixture very thoroughly into the cake dough; bake at once in a well- buttered tin for one and a half to two hours. Dry.—Soak lib. of butter overnight in either orange flower or rose water, then rub it into lib. of fine flour mixed with lib. of caster sugar; beat the yolks of six eggs with a little brandy, and mix these into the flour, &c., adding, if liked, fib. of well washed and dried currants to the mixture (this is optional), and, lastly, mix in the whites of eight- eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake half an hour in well- buttered tins, in a sharp, but not scorching, oven. This cake will keep for six months. Dundee.—Cream together 6oz. each of butter and caster sugar; sieve together ^lb. of fine flour and half a teaspoonful of baking powder (or use Coomb’s Eureka or the Paisley Flour), and mix with it the finely-grated rind of a lemon ; then stir this all into the creamed butter, &c., alternately with four well-whisked eggs. When this is all well blended, stir in 3oz. or 4oz. each of picked sultanas (or seeded raisins) and washed and dried currants, loz. or 2oz. of shred candied peel, and loz. or 2oz. of blanched andCAKES. 89 roughly-chopped almonds. When these are all mixed in, pour it all into a plain mould previously lined with two layers of well-buttered paper, strew loz. of blanched and shredded almonds over the top, and bake. Cake, Easter (which is good at any time).—Cream together Jib. of butter and Vlb. of sugar, then work in two large whole eggs, next lib. of flour previously mixed with half a teaspoonful of baking powder, and, lastly, J-lb. each of sultanas and currants, 4oz. candied peel finely chopped, half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and half as much of nutmeg and cinnamon; roll the dough out in round cakes Gin. or Tin. across and lin. thick. Bake in a moderate oven, and just at the last brush over with egg, dust with sugar, and glaze for a few minutes. Elderberry.—Beat to a cream 6oz. of butter and the same weight of brown sugar; then add three well- whisked eggs and a wineglassful of elderberry wine. Give all a vigorous beating, then stir in rapidly 12oz. of dried flour, into which two teaspoonfuls of good baking powder have been sifted; 12oz. of rich raisins stoned and cut, 4oz. of shred orange peel, a teaspoonful of spice, cloves, and nutmeg mixed. Pour into a well-battered cake tin, and bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Keep in a close-fitting t in for a week before using it. If care be taken over the mixing and baking, this cake, although by no means costly, will be found but little inferior to wedding cake. Fancy.—Of these there are so many that it is im- possible to do more than give samples in such a book as the present. For instance, Cake d la Creole.—Remove the centre from a stale sponge or Madeira cake, but without cutting it through at the bottom; then set it on a glass dish, and soak it lightly with lemon flavoured syrup, just enough to flavour it without making it pappy. When cold glaze with rum glace, garnishing this as it hardens with angelica leaves, cut-up pineapple, cocoa and pistachio nuts roughly90 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. chopped. When to be served, fill up the centre with cut-up pineapple, cocoa and pistachio nuts, &c., tossed in rum- fiavoured syrup. This cake can manifestly be varied according to circumstances. Date Cake is another variety. Slice a stale Madeira cake horizontally, spread these slices thickly with date icing, put it back into shape, and cover it all with the date icing, garnishing this with roughly chopped and blanched almonds or pistachios. For the icing, first make a puree by cooking twenty to thirty dates in half a pint of claret (or any wine to taste) with loz. or so of sugar till of the consistency of cream, and sieve it. Now put into a saucepan |lb. cane icing sugar and three to four tablespoonfuls of the date puree, and stir this all together till just warm and well blended, and use. Any fruit puree (and any cake) may be used in this way, adding a drop or two of colouring to the icing if necessary to bring up the colour. The Yule Log cake is also very pretty, and for anyone handy at “ piping ” is by no means difficult to manage. Procure a x’ather tall stale sponge cake, and with a column cutter stamp out the centre, leaving rather more than 1 tin. of cake all round. Now carve the outside to a rough likeness of a tree trunk or log, and with a rose pipe cover it all over with chocolate or coffee Vienna icing, imitating as closely as you can the gnarled bark of an old tree. When nearly set dust it in parts with very finely minced pistachios so as to resemble moss. When this has all set hard, fill up the centre with whipped cream or a macedoine of any kind of fruit or with whipped jelly and whipped cream alternately. Another fancy cake is made by stamping out rounds or hexagons of Genoese paste or Swiss roll, spreading all but one with a thick layer of any kind of icing, or with sieved jam and cream as you please ; then put one slice on the other, using the uncovered one for the top. Press them tightly together and let the cake stand till set, when you ice it all over, and garnish to taste with green fruits, bonbons, crystallised flowers, &c.91 CAKES. Cake, French.—Whip ten eggs to a good froth, then stir in carefully Jib. sugar, loz. finely shred orange peel, 4oz. fine sifted flour, and half a gill of rose or orange flower water ; put it into a well buttered flan tin or mould, and bake in a cool oven. When cold ice with chocolate glace, edge with rosettes of pink and white Vienna icing, and sprinkle lightly with crystallised rose or orange flowers. Fruit Shortcake.—Sift together three heaped teaspoon- fuls of baking powder with one quart of flour (or the Eureka flour may be used instead with capital results), and rub into it loz. of butter. Work this to a paste with one pint of milk, but do not attempt to roll it (it should be softer than ordinary pie-crust) with a rolling pin, just pat it out with the palm of your hands on the baking tins, to the depth of about an inch. Bake slowly till the cakes begin to rise, then increase the heat. AVhen cooked split the cakes, and butter them generously while hot, and cover with fresh or canned fruit previously marinaded for an hour in a little lemon juice and sugar ; put the cakes together again, and serve at once. If preferred, omit the butter and spread the cakes with the fruit mashed with thick cream. Straw- berries bottled in syrup, or canned apricots or peaches, are particularly good prepared in the latter way. Cake, Genoa.—Work lib. of butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar; then work in lightly, but thoroughly, lib. and 2oz. of eggs (weigh these, as this ensures greater certainty as to the proportions), mixing in one or two at a time, for if you add too many at a time they would very probably go thin suddenly and curdle as you beat them up. When the eggs, butter, and sugar are thoroughly mixed, work in gradually lib. 2oz. of flour, lilb. currants, Jib. sultanas, and about lOoz. of shred lemon peel. Put the mixture into an ordinary round cake tin, and just before putting it into the oven strew 4oz. of shred almonds on the top. Bake in a slow oven. This will make about 61b. of cake. Bakers often use long oblong tins for this cake when92 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. they sell it by the pound, but for ordinary rase the common round tin is the best. Cake, Gingerbread.—lib. flour, one teaspoonful ground ginger, and one teaspoonful of baking powder, well sifted together ; warm together lib. golden syrup and 4oz. clarified dripping, and work it into the flour, &c., adding one egg and about a tablespoonful of milk at the end. Bake in two flat tins for about one hour in a moderate oven. Ormskirk.—Jib. of flour, 4oz. each of butter, caster sugar, and golden syrup, 4oz. shred candied peel, Joz. powdered ginger, quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of essence of lemon; mix together all the dry ingredients, then rub in the butter, and make it to a stiff paste with the golden syrup, previously warmed and flavoured with the essence of lemon. Boll it out very thin, cut it out with an oval cutter, place the biscuits on a floured tin, and bake to a nice pale brown in a moderate oven. Or: Bub lloz. of butter into 41b. of flour, then stir in lib. of treacle, 31b. of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, and ginger and shred candied peel to taste. Boll this out thin, and cut into fingers with a knife. Ginger, without Treacle.—Use any plain recipe for currant cake, using, however, only a dessertspoonful of ginger (for an average sized cake) instead of the fruit. Light milk bread dough, worked up with an extra ounce or so of butter, dripping, or fat, and a teaspoonful of ground ginger, with a little flavouring to taste, also makes a very praiseworthy cake. Gold and Silver.—These, though perfectly separate cakes, should, for evident r-easons, be made together. Gold.—Cream Jib. of butter with lib. caster sugar, then beat in, one or two at a time, the yolks of ten eggs, and, lastly, lib. of Eureka flour, with flavouring to taste, and bake. Silver.—This is made in absolutely the same way as the golden cake, only using the whites instead of the yolks93 CAKES. of the eggs, and lemon flavouring. Ice the first cake with orange glace coloured with a few drops of lemon colouring, and ornamented with leaves of candied angelica and blanched and split almonds; while for the second cake you use royal icing, and garnish with pistachios and dried cherries. Cake, Golf.—Cover a square pound cake with almond icing and dust this thickly with finely chopped pistachios, then garnish with tiny golf clubs, miniature flags, and small balls, such as are used for mistletoe. If you ice a sultana cake in the same way, covering the almond icing with green icing, and when set garnishing this with little hoops made of strips of angelica, fastening two little card- board strips coloured to imitate croquet posts, and set these up at each end, with three or four differently coloured sweetie balls, and pipe a fancy edging in chocolate glace, you may serve it as Croquet Cake. On these lines all sorts of varieties may be introduced. I have seen a polo cake made on a foundation of Guernsey cake with almond or coffee icings, and decorated with two wee sugar ponies and a trophy of polo sticks. Guernsey.—Cream 6oz. butter with4oz. flour and 2oz. ground rice (or creme de riz), with a pinch of salt, then add 4oz. sifted cane sugar, loz. very finely shred candied peel, 2oz. dried cherries, and loz. finely minced angelica. When these are perfectly blended, add the yolks of four well beaten eggs, three or four drops essence of almonds, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Line a tin with buttered paper, set a round of buttered paper in the bottom ; at the last stir in the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs, beat it well together for a few minutes, then pour at once into the papered tin and bake forty minutes in a quick oven. This makes a capital cake to ice and garnish for a birthday cake. Hurry.—Beat the yolks of five eggs till light, and the whites of three to a very stiff froth ; dissolve 5oz. ofBREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. 94 caster sugar in nearly a wineglassful of water, and let it boil up, then pour it boiling on the eggs, and let them stand till nearly cold ; then beat in gradually 4oz. of fine- flour and bake three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. Cake, Isabella.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with lib. of sugar, then work in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and add §lb. of fine flour sifted with a small teaspoonful of baking powder (or use the Eureka flour), in spoonfuls alternately with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavour either with essence of vanilla or lemon, and bake carefully in a well-buttered and papered mould. When quite cold, ice with the following : Work 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream with 6oz. finest icing sugar, using a wooden spoon, and when quite smooth mix in 2oz. powdered vanilla chocolate and about half a wineglassful of brandy or liqueur or liqueur syrup, and continue working till it is all perfectly creamy, then use. Glace.—Put sixteen whole eggs into a delicately clean stewpan with lib. of caster sugar; set this pan in another three parts full of boiling water; place this on the stove and whisk the eggs and sugar together till warm, then lift it off the fire, and continue the whisking till the mixture is cold and as thick and light as well-whisked •cream. Now stir in Jib. of creme de riz, 12oz. of butter beaten to a cream, and half a wineglassful of maraschino. Mix this all together lightly, pour it into a square fluted mould (such as the Progros, for instance), previously well- buttered and dusted with flour and sugar, and bake. When cooked, turn it out, brush it over with thin apricot jam ox- marmalade, previously rubbed through a sieve, and strew it plentifully with chopped and blanched pistachios and almonds. Lard.—To each pound of bread dough when well risen, work in 2oz. of lard or clarified dripping, a pinch of salt, and a sprinkling of sugar; when thoroughly worked together, shape the dough into round flat cakes, put them95 CAKES. on a well-floured baking sheet, let them rise well, and before putting them into the oven score them across the top in diamonds. Bake half an hour. These cakes should be very light and flaky, and are usually eaten hot. Layer.—Beat £Lb. of butter to a cream with ilb. of sugar, then add the yolks of five eggs, and next the whites beaten till stiff, in spoonfuls, alternately with Goz. of Eureka flour and 2oz. of cornflour. When this is well mixed, add a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Have ready three square, well-buttered baking tins, and bake the mixture in these for fifteen minutes. When baked, lift them carefully from the tins, and stand till cool on a clean napkin. They are then spread with all kinds of fillings, one cake placed on the top of the other, and the whole then iced with any icing or glace you please. Amongst the nicest fillings is one made by stirring fresh or canned fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, peaches, &c., into royal icing, and spreading a thick layer of this on the cakes, pressing the top well on, and serving it either plain, dusted with sugar, or covered with royal icing. Again, fruit or jam beaten up with whipped cream is delicious between the cakes, the top layer being covered with almond icing, and this again when set being covered with chocolate glace. Or, lastly, make a meringue of stiffly whipped white of egg, sugar, and shred and baked almonds, with a few drops of noyeau, and spread this on the cakes, finishing off with noyeau or maraschino glace. It is impossible to give anything but a hint of the ways of varying these cake fillings, as their number is infinite. Left Over.—This is a capital cake to make at Christmas or birthday time, when a variety of cakes are being made. Bake the remains of each cake separately in layer tins; then spread them with any delicate jelly, such as apple, guava, quince, &c. Place one on the top of the other, arranging the colours (for example, a dark fruit cake at the bottom, then silver cake next a layer of fruit96 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. cake rather lighter than the foundation, now gold cake, then chocolate, and lastly snow cake), and cover with any icing you may have over. This cake is also called Harlequin cake. Cake, Light.—Beat together for an hour Goz. each of sifted flour and rice flour (creme de riz), ilb. caster sugar, the yolks and whites of nine eggs beaten separately, and loz. carraway seeds. Bake for an hour in a quick oven. This makes a very light cake, specially suitable for children, or persons with delicate digestions. Lunch.—4oz. of butter or lard, 4oz. ground rice, 4oz. sultanas, Jib. of flour, one whole egg, 2oz. sugar, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and enough milk to moisten it nicely. Bake in a buttered tin thirty to forty-five minutes. Serve plain, dusted with sugar. Madeira.—This is a really good trade recipe : Take lib. each of butter, caster sugar, and eggs (be sure and weigh these), l£lb. sifted flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a little milk. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, and when it is quite thick, light, and white add the eggs gradually, one or two at a time (if you put in too many at a time the mixture is very apt to thin suddenly, and curdles as you beat it). When these are all well blended, stir in lightly the flour (into which the baking powder should have been sifted), moistening the mixture, if necessary, with a very little milk. Pour this mixture at once into a tin or tins lined with buttered paper and bake in a fairly sharp oven (but not too hot a one), shifting the cake, as soon as it has fully risen and is nicely coloured, to a cooler part of oven, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. A lib. cake of this mixture takes about thirty-five minutes to bake, a 2lb. size fifty minutes. Of course, flavouring to taste, such as vanilla, essence of lemon, or finely grated lemon peel, may be added to the mixture at the last to flavour it. Or : Work 8oz. of butter to a cream with the same weight of Demerara sugar, then add fiveCAKES. 97 whole eggs beaten till perfectly light. Mix gradually into this lib. of flour, Jib. of sultanas, and a glass of white wine ; beat it all well together, then bake in a buttered tin. This cake has neither milk nor baking powder. Cake, Mexican.—Put twelve eggs into a stewpan with lib. of caster sugar, set the pan in another, three parts full of boiling water, on the stove, and whisk the eggs and sugar till warm; then lift them off the fire and continue the whipping till they are cold and as light and thick as well- whipped cream. Now stir in 14oz. rice flour or creme de riz, 4oz. very finely shredded mixed candied peel, 4oz. finely chopped almonds, and ooz. butter beaten to a cream. When all these ingredients are worked to a smooth paste, bake in a moderate oven. To deserve their name, these cakes should properly be baked in quaint, pagoda-shaped tins, but for ordinary purposes they may be baked in a plain mould, sliced, spead with apricot jam mixed with cream and shred almonds, built back into shape, and iced with royal icing made with Kirsch, either liqueur or syrup, instead of lemon juice. Oatmeal.—Put into a basin half a pint of prepared grits and lib. coai’se oatmeal, then pour on to it half a pint of boiling water. Stir it up with a spoon and let it soak for ten minutes. Now add 4oz. of butter, three whole eggs, and enough milk to make a light dough. Beat this well with the spoon till smooth, and lastly add Mb. sultanas but no sugar. Put into buttered tins and bake in a cool oven. Orange.—Put six whole eggs into a delicately clean stewpan with a saltspoonful of essence of vanilla, lOoz. caster sugar, the grated rind of three oranges, and a tea- spoonful of liquid carmine. Stand the pan in another three parts full of boiling water, and whisk it over the fire till the ingredients are warm, then lift it off and continue whipping till they are quite cold, and as light and thick as stiffly-whipped cream. Now stir into it 6oz. of fine flour and HBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 98 §oz. of baking powder, and stand it all on tbe screen to get warm. Butter a plain charlotte mould, paper it, and dust with equal parts of flour and sugai', pour in the cake mixture, and bake one and a quarter hours in a very mode- rate oven. Then turn it out and let it get quite cold on a pastry rack or a reversed sieve; it can now be either sliced, spread with marmalade rubbed through a sieve, the slices replaced in position, and iced with orange glace (6oz. of icing sugar warmed over the fire with one and a half table- spoonfuls of orange juice, and stirred till smooth), or it may be left whole, and iced with glace made with half orange juice, half Curacjoa. Cake, Orange.—Work together lightly the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs with 6oz. caster sugar till it is thick. Now add the juice and grated rind of two oranges to it. Sift together two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 4oz. of fine dried flour, and stir this all lightly and quickly into the previous mixture. Pour this into two round flat cake tins and bake about twenty minutes. Let this cool, mixing meanwhile i/lb. of icing sugar with the strained juice of an orange and a good sqrieeze of lemon juice. When the cakes are quite cold spread over thickly with this icing, place the second round on it, and cover all over with the rest of this icing. Serve plain, or divide up two or three Tangerine oranges, removing all pith and pips, dip each in sugar, boiled to the “ crack,” and arrange them all round the edge of the cake, making a star of them in the middle, with tiny leaves cut out of angelica. Parkin (real old Yorkshire).—Melt together ljlb. of treacle, ilb. of butter, and |Tb. of sugar, with ginger to taste; then work this well into 2lb. of fine sifted oatmeal, and bake in well-greased tins in a moderate oven. It rises a good deal in baking. Or: 41b. fine oatmeal, 61b. treacle, 4oz. butter, four teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; mix well, and bake in well-greased tins in a very, very slow oven.99 CAKES. Cake, Irish Plum.—lib. of butter, lilb, of flour, lib. caster sugar, l^lb. currants, 4oz. almonds, 4oz. peel, nine eggs, a wineglassful of brandy. Beat the butter to a cream, then work in the sugar, next the eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately and very thoroughly), lastly the flour, beating it all continuously from the moment you begin mixing it. Just before putting it into the oven add the peel finely shredded, the well washed and dried currants, and the almonds pounded finely. This makes a capital cake, but requires much beating and elbow work. Plum (a la vanille).—Pile l£lb. of flour on a board, make a hollow in the centre, and put into this ioz. caster sugai', J,oz. fine salt, the yolks of three eggs, lib. of butter, and a glass of good cream; beat this all well together, drawing the flour gradually from the sides till it is all well mixed in ; then roll it out like puff paste four times, sprinkling it each time with powdered vanilla ; mix in then as many stoned raisins or sultanas as you please, press the cake into a tin 3 inches deep, surround it with bands of buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for three hours. Porter.—Rub 4oz. of butter into lib. of flour; then mix in ilb. well washed and dried currants, the same of sultanas or stoned raisins, two teaspoonfuls of mixed spice, the finely-grated rind of one lemon, a teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda on to which has been poured a quarter pint of heated porter, and four eggs broken (not beaten) into the mixture ; beat altogether for twenty minutes, then bake for three hours in a slow oven. To be kept three days before use in an airtight tin. The recipes for this cake only vary slightly in detail; for instance, in some, finely-shred candied peel is given instead of fresh lemon peel, while one adds 2oz. blanched and shred almonds to the mixture. Potato.—Rub 4oz. clarified dripping into lib. of flour, then work into it lib. of mashed mealy potatoes, an egg, a teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and as much tepid milk as will mix it to a nice smooth paste. H 2100 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Shape this into rounds the size of a plate, cut these again into triangles from the centre, and bake in a hot oven, or preferably on a girdle. If the paste is too soft, or the oven cool, these cakes are spoilt. A richer kind may be made by baking instead of boiling the potatoes, crushing them through a potato masher, and to every pound of this potato snow allow loz. of fresh butter, or a proportionate amount of cream, a dust of salt and of grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, and the yolk of an egg. When beaten quite smooth (it should look very rich), flatten it out with the hands, shape it in rounds the size of a plate, cut it into triangles, and bake, glazing it at the last with a little sugar. Cake, Pound.—12oz. butter, 12oz. caster sugar, lib. of eggs (be sure to weigh them), lib. dried and sifted flour, 6oz. candied peel (shred), 8oz. well washed and dried currants, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Mix this according to the directions given in the beginning of this chapter, put the mixture into pound tins neatly papered, and bake them for thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. To try if they are done, stab the cake with a sharp skewer ; if it comes out clean the cake is done. — Beat ijlb. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, then work in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, next lib. of sifted flour, previously mixed with a teaspoonful of baking powder, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and 6oz. to 8oz. well-washed currants ; then stir in a little finely shredded candied peel, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake one and a half hours in a modex-ate oven. Beat lib. of fresh butter to a ci-earn with 12oz. caster sugai’, then add six eggs, one or two at a time, beating each well in before adding the next; then stir in 14oz. fine sifted floui’, 4oz. to 6oz. currants, stoned l’aisins, sultanas, or dried cheri-ies, and the grated peel of two lemons or limes. When this is all thorougly mixed, bake in small round hoops, lined with three thicknesses of white101 CAKES. buttered paper round and underneath the cake, in a steady soaking oven. A little bran or sawdust should be put on to the baking tin under the cake, while baking, to prevent any risk of burning. If covered with almond icing and royal icing, and decorated, this makes a capital birthday cake. Cake, Pound (Cheap).—Beat to a cream 6oz. of butter and 6oz. of lard or beef marrow, and mix it with lib. of sugar, three eggs, ljlb. of Coomb’s Eureka flour, and a pint of milk ; mix thoroughly, and finish off like any other pound cake. “ Lavy” (Pain leve).—Beat the yolks of twenty- two eggs and the whites of eleven, working to them gradually lib. caster sugar, a little rose water or essence of vanilla, and lastly 12oz. of fine flour mixed with loz. ground bitter almonds. Continue the beating for half an hour, then pour the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper, place a buttered paper over the top of the cake, and bake at once in a quick oven. If properly made this cake (which is a very old one) is lighter than any sponge cake. Prussian.—Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth with a tiny pinch of salt, then add the yolks, also beaten till light; now mix in a pound of sifted sugar, the juice of one and the grated rind of two lemons, with ^lb. finely pounded almonds (freshly ground almonds can be used) with a little rose water. Beat these all well together, and when thoroughly mixed strew in at the last ^lb. dried and sifted flour; put the mixture in a papered tin, and bake at once. Be careful to have the eggs well and separately beaten, or the cake will be a failure. It is well to remember that though eggs, butter, &c., are the better for being beaten, flour “ saddens ” in the process, and when much beating is needed the flour should be mixed in just at the last. Raspberry.—Beat |lb. of butter (or you may use half butter, half lard, or clarified dripping) to a cream102 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. with Jib. of sugar; then add four eggs previously beaten up with two or three spoonfuls of milk, and beat these in weli; next stir in a pound of flour (sifted with a teaspoon- ful of baking powder), and lastly add two full table- spoonfuls of raspberry jam (this may be sieved if preferred), mix it all well, put the mixture (leaving room for it to rise) into a papered mould, dusted with flour and sugar, and bake. Be careful not to shake or jar the cake or to open the oven door till the top has set, or it will very likely drop in the centre. A drop or two of carmine may be added to this cake, if necessary, to improve the colour, but it should not be too dark. Cake, Ribbon.—Beat 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, and lascly the yolks of four eggs. Now stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon essence, half a pint of new milk, and 12oz fine sifted flour. Mix this all thoroughly, then stir in lightly and quickly the whites cf the eggs whipped to a \ ery stiff froth, and about a tablespoonful of baking powder ; take out one-third of the mixture and work into it quickly a spoonful of cinnamon (the quant.ty of this is a matter of taste). Jib. washed and dried currants, and about 2oz. finely shredded candied citron peel. Butter thi ee shallow pans of the same size, fill one with the fruit mixture, and put the rest of the dough in the others, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn them out directly they are baked, and, when slightly cooled, spread one of the light cakes and the dark one with royal icing flavoured to taste, and mixed with shred pistachios or almonds (either blanched or baked a golden brown), place the fruit cake on the plain one, and on the top press lightly the other plain cake, put a sheet of white paper over it all, then a clean baking shee., and on this a couple of fairly light weights. Let it stand to press for an hour, then remove the weights, and serve either plain or iced to taste. This cake can be varied by varying the icings.CAKES. 103 Cake, Rice.—Beat lib. of butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, work in about ten eggs, one or two at a time, and when these are all mixed in thoroughly, stir in lib. 4oz. of fine flour (previously sifted with a full teaspoonful of baking powder), 2oz. of rice flour or creme de riz, a few drops of essence of lemon and of tincture of saffron. Bake in well-papered hoops, in a steady oven, half an hour for lib. cakes, forty-five minutes for 2lb. tins. Ornament each cake with a thin strip of candied peel and some comfits before baking. — Cream together £lb. each of fresh butter and caster sugar, and when white and frothy beat for ten minutes longer, ad ling in a few drops of any flavouring to taste, then work in, one by one, six whole eggs alternately with spoonfuls of 5oz. fine flour and 3oz. creme de riz (pre- viously sifted together) ; this will take fifteen minutes work in thoroughly, then sprinkle in ^oz. of baking powder, and pour the mixture into two pint moulds, buttered and papered (or prepared as for sponge cake), and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. If when turned out the paper is kept on these cakes, they will keep a fortnight in a tin. Or the mixture may be poured into fancy moulds, previously buttered and well dusted with equal parts of flour and caster sugar. Ju3t liquefy the butter and brush it well all over the mould with a brush before pouring it in; if this is not done all over the cakes will stick and look ragged. A good rice cake may be made by any good cake recipe, using half wheat half rice flour, or one part Paisley flour to two parts each of wheat and rice flour. Bice flour needs rather more baking powder than ordinary flour. Rose.—For the rose part beat 3oz. of butter to a cream with Ooz. finest icing sugar, then add a wineglassful of rose water and 6oz. dried and sifted flour ; work this well together, adding 6oz. ground almonds, the yolks of six eggs, and a very few drops of essence of almonds; colour this to a delicate rose tint with a few drops of liquid104 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. carmine, stir in Joz. of baking powder, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whipped as stiff as possible, and bake in a square mould lined with buttered paper for forty to sixty minutes in a rather quick oven. Let it cool in the tin before turning it out. White part: Beat 4oz. fresh butter to a cream, then work into it Jib. dried and sifted flour and 4oz. cornflour, into which you have previously sifted one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder; now beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix this with Jib. caster sugar, and then stir it into a gill of new milk and a few drops of essence of lemon, and work the whole into the flour and butter as quickly and lightly as possible. Bake in a well-buttered tin. When both these cakes are quite cold slice them about half an inch thick, and cut these slices again into half-inch strips. Have ready a square, buttered mould, and in this arrange the strips of cake, rose and white alternately, till the mould is full, then pour all over this a syrup (made by boiling together lib. of loaf sugar with half a pint of water till it is like cream, then strain it through muslin, and flavour it with a spoonful of maraschino and a few drops of rose water), and v:hen this has set thoroughly turn the cake out carefully, and serve, iced with maraschino glace (6oz. icing sugar stirred over the fire, with one and a half tablespoonfuls of maraschino, till warm and smooth, coloured, if liked, with a few drops of liquid carmine, till of a pretty rose colour), and garnished with crystallised rose leaves (if the icing is kept white) and pistachios or candied angelica. Cake, Russian.—Prepare a Genoese or Madeira mixture as you choose, and divide this into three parts ; flavour one part with a little maraschino, the second part is mixed with grated or melted chocolate, and the third coloured vrith a drop or two of carmine, and a flavouring of essence of vanilla; bake each part separately in a well buttered and floured flat tin. When baked turn these cakes out on to a sieve or rack till cool. Have ready a square or oblong loaf tin, thinly105 CAKES. lined with almond paste, spread a layer of melted and sieved apricot jam on this, cut the cakes into long straight sticks about half inch thick, and arrange a layer of these in the tin alternating the colours, then cover this with more warm jam, and repeat these layers till the tin is full, when you spread the top with jam and lay on it a sheet of almond paste. Press this lightly on to it, and set the mould away in a cool place for an hour or so. When wanted turn it out carefully and slice it neatly cross wise, as thickly as you please. The secret of this cake lies in the careful mixing of the colours. Cake, Saffron.—Boil together jib. of butter and a pint of milk, then skim off the butter, and mix it with 21b. of Hour, with a little of the milk ; now stir three-quarters of a pint of yeast with the rest of the milk, and work this into the flour, &c. Next add a good dust of pounded cinnamon, cloves, and mace, lloz. carraway seeds, -loz. rose water, and about the same of saffron water (made by infusing a good pinch of saffron in half a gill of boiling water), ilb. of sugar, and three whole eggs ; work it all up lightly with the hands,, and bake in a well buttered mould. It will take three- quarters of an hour to an hour to bake. The carraways are a matter of taste. Scripture.—This somewhat foolish recipe runs thus: Four and a half cups of I. Kings iv., 22 (flour) ; one and a half cups Judges v., 25, last clause (butter) ; two cups Jeremiah vi., 20 (sugar) ; two cups I. Samuel xxx., 12 (raisins) ; two cups Nahum iii., 12 (figs) ; one cup Numbers, xvii., 8 (almonds); two tablespoonfuls I. Samuel xiv., 25 (honey) ; season to taste with II. Chronicles ix., 9 (spice) ; six of Jeremiah xvii., 11 (eggs) ; a pinch of Leviticus ii., 13 (salt) ; half cup Judges iv., 19, last clause (milk); two tea- spoonfuls of Amos iv., 5 (baking powder). Follow Solomon’s advice for a good boy (Proverbs xxiii., 14), and you will have a good cake. School Children’s.—This is an excellent cake for106 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. a school treat or tea, but should be kept two days at least before being cut, as, like many other cakes, it improves by keeping. To each pound of flour allow jib. of mixed fruit, currants, raisins, and sultanas, 5oz. of butter or well clarified dripping or lard, 4oz. brown sugar, 2oz. very finely shred candied peel, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and just enough milk to mix it nicely. No eggs are needed. Make up in large cakes (these cut to best advantage), and bake two hours or more. If seed cake is preferred, use half a teaspoonful of carraway seeds and 2oz. more sugar instead of the fruit. If used for tea, when bread and butter, jam, &c., is given, you reckon from 5oz. to 6oz. a head, but given alone it is safer to count on 9oz. to lOoz. per child. Cake, Scotch (New Year's) Bun.—Put 4lb. of hour into a pan, reserving a little to work it up with, hollow this out in the centre, and put in jib. of butter broken up ; mix together one and a half gills of yeast with half a pint of warm water, and work this with the flour and butter to a smooth dough. If not moist enough, a little more water may be used, but be careful about this, as at the best this cake is distinctly solid. Set aside one-third of the dough for a cover ; now mix together joz. powdered cinnamon, joz. powdered cloves, and loz. ground ginger ; then mix separately 1 jib. stoned raisins, ljlb, washed and dried currants, 4oz. shred almonds, and 8oz. very finely shred candied peel. Spread out the larger portion of dough, lay the fruit on it, and strew it thickly with the mixed spice ; now mix it all well together, kneading it thoroughly and steadily. Then roll out the cover, lay the bun on it, cover it neatly in a square, cutting the corners, and after pricking it all over with a fork, binding it into shape with bands of stiff buttered paper, bake in a pretty sharp oven, and glaze it with a beaten egg just before taking it out of the oven. This is only a modified edition of Meg Dod’s famous recipe, which, as it is largely made in Scotland, is107 CAKES. though very nice, portentous in its solidity, not to say indigestibility. Cake, Seed.—4oz. butter, 4oz. lard, loz. sugar, lflb. of flour, 4oz. lemon peel, half pint of milk, four large eggs, ioz. carraway seeds, loz of baking powder, a little essence of lemon, and a few drops of prepared turmeric. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs, one by one; and when the esrgs are well mixed with the butter and sugar stir in all the other ingredients, fill up the moulds, and bake in a moderate oven (a 2lb. cake will take forty-live minutes . Shortbread.—Jib. each of flour and butter, 4oz. rice flour, and 4oz. caster sugar. Mix these ingre- dients well together with tho tips of your fingers till you get a soft dough, then shape into a round or a square, pinch up the edges neatly, prick the top over with a fork, and bake it (on a flat baking tin) for fifteen or twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Leave it on the baking tin till cool, as it is apt to break if handled while hot; if liked, strips of candied peel, or com- fits can be placed on the top. This metuod of making short- cake is the real Scotch way, but requires practice, as it is difficult to form a paste with only the above materials. One egg, or a very little milk, helps the process. Or : lglb. of flour, ^lb. rice flour, lib. butter gib. caster sugar. Rub these ingredients together till they begin to mould easily when pressed, then knead them into two cakes, and bake in an oven hot at first, but cooling down gradually. Simnel.—A quaint old legend accounts for the Simnel cake in this way: Simon and Nell were an old couple, whose children had left home—some married, some in service—but, according to the old custom, they were to come home for a visit on Midlent, or “ Mothering ” Sunday ; in preparation for which event the old couple had made ready sundry delicacies, amongst which was a rich cake, that was duly mixed and only required cooking. Unluckily,108 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. the old people had words over this; one said it must be baked, the other said it should be boiled; and they continued arguing for some time, until one of them, which the legend sayeth not, tired of the discussion, suggested a compromise; and so the cake was first boiled and then baked, and received the name of Sim (short for Simon) and Nell’s cake, other- wise Simnel cake. I fear I do not know if this legend may be credited; I can only give it as the explanation given to me in my childhood, and I have seen it referred to often since then. 12oz. each of butter and of caster sugar, lib. of flour, lib. of eggs (weigh these), 4oz. candied peel, 12oz. currants, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, then work the eggs in,, one or two at a time, and when these are all used add the other ingredients quickly and lightly. Prepare some almond icing thus : Rub together 12oz. caster sugar and 6oz. ground almonds, and work this to a stiff paste with two small eggs or one large one. Roll this paste out, dusting it and the board with a little rice flour ; butter and paper a cake hoop, and put into it a layer of the cake mixture and then one of the almond icing, then a second layer of the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. A lib. cake will take fifty minutes, a 21b. one seventy-five minutes. Or: beat 6oz. each of butter and caster sugar to a cream, work in four eggs, then mix in 12oz. sifted flour, mixed with half a teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful mixed spice, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful ground ginger, |lb. washed and dried currants, -Jib. each of sultanas and raisins stoned and chopped, and 4oz. shred candied peel. Half a gill of milk may be required to get the dough nicely workable. Line a cake mould with several folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, smooth it over the top, and sprinkle the top with a little water, then with sugar, sweetmeats, and shred almonds, and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven, protecting it above and below from burning. This cake should properly be kept four months. By the bye, you will109 CAKES. find that 9oz. of ordinary flour and 3oz. of the new “ Paisley ” flour, instead of the baking powder, will be a great improve- ment. The next is a modernised but very nice version. Make a dough with Alb. of flour and Joz. dried yeast, dissolved in a gill of lukewarm milk, with a spoonful of sugar; let this rise for an hour, then work into it two eggs, lOoz. of currants, 4oz. of shred candied peel, 4oz. fresh butter creamed, with 4oz. of caster sugar (less the quantity you add to the yeast), and about a teaspoonful of mixed spice. When this has all been well mixed in leave it to rise (covered) again for an hour. Now line a tin with a sheet or two of buttered paper, put in half the mixture, then cover this with a layer of almond icing jin. to lin. thick, and add the rest of the dough. Bake this in a steady oven for two to two and a half hours, then turn it out, and let it cool. When cold have ready some almond paste, rolled out half inch thick, coat the cake entirely with this, and leave it to set. This cake is better for being kept some time before cutting. The almond icing in the centre should be rather softer than that used for the outer casing. Cake, Sister’s.—Put Jib. of milk roll or bun dough in a pan before the fire to warm, then work into this three well- beaten eggs, 4oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt, and Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, and beat it all together with a little milk for an hour. Butter a plain round mould, and put in it a layer of this dough, then a layer of candied peel shred very tine, and repeat these layers till the mould is full. Put it into a sharp but not fierce oven at once, and bake for an hour. It will rise a great deal. When it is nearly baked prepare a syrup by boiling lib. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water till it is frothy, then add a wine- glassful of orange flower water, and pour this syrup hot, but not boiling, on to the cake directly it is taken out of the oven. Sprinkle “ hundreds and thousands ” over it, and when cold turn it out on to a glass dish.BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 110 Cake, Solferino.—Mix 4oz. very finely shredded orange and lemon peel with 8oz. savarin dough, then with this half fill a Solferino mould (something like a trois freres border mould), and let it stand on the stove till the dough rises and fills the mould completely, then bake in a moderate oven. Pour over this some apricot sauce, i.e., -ilb. of apricot jam boiled for a few minutes with a gill of water, then rubbed through a sieve, and flavoured with any liqueur to taste. This cake, though delicious as a cake, makes an even nicer sweet if served with the centre filled with flavoured whipped cream and a garnish of fruit tossed in syrup, either hot or cold. The same remark applies to Mexican and other cakes of the same kind. Sponge.—Take 1 jib. of eggs (eggs weigh about eight to ten to the pound), lib. caster sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon ; whisk together in a large bowl the eggs and the sugar for half an hour (if you use an egg-beating machine fifteen minutes will be plenty), whisk- ing regularly and steadily one way, from right to left and back in a kind of circular sweep. This beating must be kept up till the mixture is ready, or the air cells formed by the whisking will collapse, and the cake in consequence become heavy and tough. At the end of half an hour stir in the flavouring lightly, and last of all 12oz. to 14oz. of flour, sifted, dried, and warmed. Mix in the flour as lightly and quickly as possible, or this will spoil the cake, and the more it is whisked the heavier it will become. As sood as this is all mixed it must be at once put into the prepared moulds and baked in a very moderate oven, which should have been really hot and then allowed to cool before putting in the cake. As soon as the cake has risen, and the top is of a very pale and delicate brown, lay a buttered paper over it to prevent its over-colouring. When the cake is ready lift the tin from the oven and leave it in a warm corner near the fire for two or three minutes before turning it out, as inIll CAKES. cooling it shrinks, and leaves the tin, so is easier to slip out. If it should stick, slip the point of a knife round the edges, tap the mould gently on the table, then cover the mould with a hair sieve, reverse these, and the cake should slip out clean and uninjured on to the sieve, where it should be left untouched in a warm corner till set, when it can be lifted up without breaking or crumbling. The oven must be a very moderate one, so that the cake may heat through gradually, and a crust form round the sides to support the top as it rises. In an overheated oven the top will rise up sharply in a cone shipe drawn up by the heat, and the sides not being properly set as the top hardens, and con- sequently becomes heavier, they give way, the top falls in, and the cake becomes heavy. It must also be remembered that a draught (before the cake is properly set), or a jar in putting it into the oven, or the slamming of the oven door when this has been opened to examine the cake, are each and all sufficient to make the cake drop and “ sadden.” Bear in mind also that the cake mould should never be set flat on the oven shelf, but in a baking tin containing a good layer of sand or salt. If this is neglected, the cake will be burnt, or at least too darkly coloured on top. To test if the cake is done, prick it with a clean splinter of wood or a fine knitting needle, draw this- out gently, and if it is quite clean and dry, the cake is ready. If, however, it is stained or damp, the sponge requires longer baking. It cannot be too strongly impressed on the amateur that a great deal of the success in this cake- making depends on the preparation of the mould. Try it in this way: Wash the mould thoroughly, and dry it per- fectly. Now dissolve 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and either paint the inside of the mould thickly and evenly with this liquid, or pour the butter into the mould and turn and tilt the mould till every particle of its surface is buttered ; then pour out the superfluous butter in a jar (this can be used again) and dust the inside of the mould with equal parts of112 BREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. tine dried flour and caster sugar (for an average tin a table- spoonful each of sugar and flour sifted together, will be sufficient), then turn the mould upside down, and tap it to drive out the loose sugar, &c., leaving a smooth even white surface. No w fasten a strip of white buttei’ed paper, coated like the mould, round the top of the tin as for a souffle, and, when this is all firm, pour in enough cake mixture to half till the mould and bake as described above A sponge cake mould should always be got ready first, so that the moment the mixture is ready, it may at once be put into the mould, while the flour and sugar coating should be firm before the mould is filled up. The appearance of a sponge cake depends so much on the care with which the mould is prepared that care on this point is well repaid. Do not forget that till a sponge cake is perfectly set, it should never be moved from a warm corner as the slightest chill is enough to make it close and heavy at once. A quickly made sponge cake is prepared thus: Beat the yolks of three eggs separately till quite light, then beat them well (with a Dover egg beater for five to seven minutes, or twelve to fifteen minutes with a fork), then mixing in gradually and lightly the weight of the eggs (with their shells) of caster sugar, and beat for ten minutes or so longer ; then put in the white of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth, with a pinch of salt, in alternate spoonfuls, with the weight of the eggs in dried and sifted flour, as lightly and quickly as you can, and finish off as before. A Savoy Cake, used for tipsy cake and suchlike, is usually only a plainer, less sweetened form of sponge cake; lib. of eggs, 14oz. flour, and 12oz. of sugar is the usual average. These cakes, generally baked in a rather florid mould, need care, and a somewhat slower oven than sponge cake, which is generally baked in a plain tin. Cake Sultana.—Mix together &lb. of flour, a short tea- spoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt, then rub into it 4oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 4oz. moist orCAKES. 113 caster sugar, a teaspoouful of grated lemou rind, and 4oz. of sultanas (or dried cherries, in which case use caster sugar instead of moist); moisten with the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten with about two tablespoonfuls of milk (if too moist, like other cakes, this one will be heavy), and add in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth at the last. Bake in a well-buttered mould, strewed with flour and sugar. Cake, Sunshine.—This is made exactly like “ angel food,’'’ only the yolks of the eggs, beaten till light, are stirred into the mixture before adding the flour, and the whole is flavoured with essence of lemon or orange. Twelfth Night.—Make a hollow in 61b. of flour, and set a sponge with one and a half gills of yeast and a little milk; put round it lib. of fresh butter broken up small, lib. 4oz. caster sugar, 4glb. well washed and dried currants, ^oz. sifted cinnamon, the same of cloves, mace, and nutmeg mixed, and finely shredded candied peel to taste. When it has risen, mix it all well together with a little warm milk, pour the mixture into well-buttered and papered hoops, and bake. When cold, these cakes are covered with almond icing, and, when this is set, with royal icing, and garnished to taste with appropriate ornaments. They can also be served plain. They should be kept a little time before cutting. Tennis.—Bake a cherry cake in a buttered tin loaf mould, and when perfectly cold cover with a half-inch layer of almond icing, and when set cover this with a green royal icing, mark out courts with plain royal icing-, stretch a net across on two fancy pins, and, if possible, arrange balls and rackets in spun sugar or piping at the ends. Trocadero.—Cream together ooz. or 6oz. of butter and the same of caster sugar, then add four whole eggs, one by one; stir in lloz. sultanas and 4oz. dried cherries halved (some cooks use glace ginger, or pineapple, or apricot instead of the sultanas), and about half to a teaspoonful of I114 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. any flavouring to taste; then work in 6oz. of butter to which you have added half a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and bake in a high round tin (buttered) in a hot oven. When perfectly cold cover with almond icing, and when this is set ornament to taste with royal and Viennese icing and glace fruit. Cake, Venetian.—Beat together the yolks of six eggs and ^lb. of sugar for twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, then mix them lightly with the yolks and sugar, and rather more than 2oz. of fine sifted flour; pour this mixture into a buttered mould dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar, and bake. Turn it out on to a sieve or a pastry rack and leave it till perfectly cold, when it is iced with vanilla chocolate icing. Victoria.—Beat loz. of butter to a cream, then add to it three eggs, together with a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 3oz. caster sugar, 3oz. ground almonds, 4oz. dried cherries, 2oz. finely shred candied peel, half a gill of brandy, and 4oz. of flour. Work this all well together for a few minutes, then add gradually three more eggs and 12oz. more flour. When this is all well mixed in, spread the paste out in the pan and add to it ^oz. German yeast, a teaspoonful of salt dissolved in a little tepid water, and a gill of stiffly-whipped cream. When this is all mixed, paper a 6-inch hoop with buttered white paper, lay a sheet of buttered paper on the baking sheet, set the papered hoop on this, pour in the mixture, and set it in a moderately warm place till it has risen to twice its first size ; then bake in a moderate oven till of a light brown colour. It is impossible to give the time this cake will take to bake, so the best way is to test it with the wooden skewer driven to the centre of the cake. Directly it is turned out of the hoop, return it to the oven for a minute or two, as this prevents its shrinking and falling as it would do if turned out of the hoop in a cooler atmosphere. A variety of this cake may be made by omitting the cherries, spice, and peel.115 CAKES. and using instead 4oz. sweet and loz. bitter almonds and half a pint of cream. Cake, Vinegar.—Rub 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping into ilb. of flour till it is all in crumbs, then mix to it 4oz. brown sugar, 4oz. well-washed and dried currants, half a te ispoont'ul of baking powder, and the same of powdered cinnamon. Then mix together in another basin half a 1 easpoonful of carbonate of soda and a gill of milk ; when smooth, pour into this a tablespoonfnl of vinegar, and, while it is in full effervescence, stir into it the dry ingre- dients, then put the mixture quickly into a ready-buttered tin, and bake at once in a moderate oven from one and a half to two hours. Walnut.—Mix carefully six tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, ooz. butter creamed with a good tablespoonful of caster sugar, one tablespoonful of blanched and powdered almonds, two tablespoonfuls of blanched and powdered wal- nuts, the yolks of two eggs, and a very little water. Bake in a flat, round, or oblong cake tin in a moderate oven till of a light golden-brown colour. Meanwhile heat together (without letting it boil!) half a gill each of cream and milk, the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, and three tablespoonfuls of caster sugar. When this is quite hot (but not boiling), lift off the pan and stir in the whisked whites of the eggs and four table- spoonfuls of blanched and chopped, or powdered walnuts. Cover the cake evenly with this mixture, then put it in the oven till set. Serve dusted with sugar and chopped pistachios. — Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream, then beat in a cupful of white sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, half a cupful of milk, and two cupfuls (lib.) of fine flour mixed with a good teaspoonful of baking powder; bake in buttered shallow tins, round ones if possible. Whip up some cream with a little fine sugar till quite thick ; when the cakes are cold, spread the inside of one or two of them, according to number, with the cream, and sprinkle on the cream some finely-chopped walnuts, place oae on top of the other, and i 2116 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. ice with white glace or a fondant icing, placing some half walnuts dipped in the icing all around. Cocoanut cake is made in the sime way, but the cream should be mixed with a small quantity of grated cocoanut, and when the icing is nearly dry a thick sprinkling of the cocoanut is placed on it. A different cake, but a vex-y good one, is made in this way: Take a pint of shelled walnuts and pound them (or grind them in a nut-mill, which can be purchased for a shilling or two), beat up the yolks of nine eggs, add to them gradually £lb. of caster sugar and the nuts. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, mix them in lightly, and bake in a large, well-buttered tin. When cold, divide the cake, spread one half of it with the whipped cream, place it together again, ice, and decox-ate with half walnuts. Cake, Wedding.—Beat 2glb. of butter to a cream with 2jlb of caster sugar (this butter may be slightly warmed to make it work more easily, but this must be carefully done, for if the least overheated the butter will oil and spoil the whole mixing). When the butter and sugar is in a thick cream, work in, two or three at a time (never more, for fear of thinning the mixture too suddenly, and thus making it curdle in the beating up), 31b. of eggs (this means about twenty-four or twenty-six, but it is wisest to weigh them) ; when these are thoroughly mixed, wox-k in gradually 21b. of ground almonds, 41b. to olb of very finely shredded mixed candied peel, 51b. well washed and dried currants, 3lb. of cai-efully stoned x’aisixxs, not quite 31b. of fine floui1, previously sifted with loz. of mixed spice, and lastly a glass of brandy. Paper a hoop well with buttered paper, and put a layer of bran or dry sawdust on the baking sheet under the paper to keep it from burning. Pour in the mixture, and bake for quite seven hours in a slow, soaking oven. Then let it stand till perfectly cold. Next day trim the cake, smoothing the top over, if necessary, with a knife, and spi'ead it quite an inch thick with almond icing117 CAKES. made thus: Mix lib. 4oz. of finely chopped or ground almonds with 2lb. finest icing sugar, and mix it to a smooth paste with the whites of four eggs and a wineglassful of rum ; if preferred, a spoonful of essence of vanilla or of lemon, and two or three more whites of egg, may be used instead of the rum. Roll this out, dusting the board and the rolling pin with rice flour or crime de riz. Place this mixture on the cake, pressing it into position, and, when set and firm, cover it and the sides of the cake thickly with royal icing, made thus: Put the whites of four or five eggs to lib. 4oz. of finest icing sugar and a little lemon juice, and work it to a smooth thick paste with a clean wooden spoon (it will take fully twenty minutes to mix), then spread it evenly over the cake with a palette knife dipped occasionally into cold water. Ornament to taste with flowers, figures, &c. Cake, An Excellent Yeast.—(To be made a fortnight before required for use, and kept wrapped in paper in air- tight tins.) 61b. of flour, l|lb. of butter and beef dripping, 2£lb. of currants and raisins, or stoned raisins alone, 141b. of brown sugar, lib. of candied peel sliced very finely, a few carraway seeds, two nutmegs grated, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, one of ginger, and one of salt, four eggs, a quart of luke- warm milk, and 2oz. best German yeast. Kub the butter and the dry ingredients, spices, &c., into the flour ; make a well in the centre, in which set a sponge of the yeast and a gill of the milk. When the sponge has risen make up the cake with the rest of the milk and the eggs, and knead the dough vigorously for twenty minutes; set it to rise in a warm place for three or four hours, in which time it should have become trebled in amount, then make up into loaves and bake in buttered tins. The oven should be rather hot to begin with, lowering the heat when the cakes have risen up and taken colour. They will require very thorough baking—towards an hour and a half. This should yield 14lb. or 15lb of cake.118 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Cakes, Yule.—Dissolve Aoz. of German yeast in a pint of warm water, work it into 21b. of sifted flour till it is a smooth paste. Let this stand covered up for an hour or two to rise. Then work into it lib of creamed butter, lib. of sugar, a grated nutmeg, 8oz. finely shred mixed candied peel, l£lb. carefully stoned muscatel raisins, some shred almonds, and four eggs. Butter a large tin mould, half fill it with the mixture, and bake about three and a half hours. Turn it out of the mould to cool. This cake should be tested with the wooden skewex-, as one cannot always depend on the time it will take to bake.CHAPTER V. BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. Biscuits.—Cats’ Tongues (Langaes de Chat).—Mix together lightly the stiffly-whipped whites of three eg^s and 4oz. to 5oz. of caster sugar, then add 4oz. of butter, melted, but not oiled, and at the last stir in very quickly 4ioz. of finest Vienna flour. Force this paste out on a buttered baking sheet, by means of a bag and a pipe the diameter of a lead pencil. These biscuits, which should be finger- shaped, will look thin when preseed out, but must not be close together, as they will spread in the baking. Bake in a fairly hot oven till moderately browned at the edges. They never turn golden-brown, and are usually white in the centre. These biscuits need much practice to keep the shape and edges perfect. Charcoal.—Sieve carefully together lib. of fine, dry flour and 4oz. finest “ willow ” charcoal, and mix it all to a stiff paste with a little water, stirred in gradually; loz. or 2oz. of sugar may be added to the mixture, but it is better without. Boll the paste out half an inch thick, cut it into squares, &c., and bake in a sharp oven. These are best made fresh, but will keep fairly well in an air-tight tin. Chestnut.—Put on the board 6oz. chestnut flour and 4oz. of either Coomb’s Eureka or the Paisley flour, make a hollow in the centre with your knuckles ; put into this 4oz. just warmed (not oiled) butter and 3oz. caster sugar, and120 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. work it all to a stiff paste. Roll this out evenly, cut it into quarters, and roll these out again; then break off small pieces, roll these out into fingers 3in. or 4in. long, and not very thick, place them on a well-buttered baking sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a slack oven till lightly coloured; then lift them out and set them in the screen till crisp. Biscuits, Chocolate.—Mix lightly into the stiffly whisked whites of six eggs sufficient best grated vanilla chocolate to colour and rather strongly flavour them; now add sufficient sifted sugar and fine flour to pro luce a light, workable paste; shape these biscuits, put them on paper- covered baking sheets, and b ike them in a gentle oven. In France chocolate biscuits are made by cutting a very thin sheet of Genoa pastry (or Swiss roll paste) into rounds, crescents, &c., and dipping them singly into the following: Dissolve l|oz. best vanilla chocolate with a very little water, then add about tln’ee spoonfuls of icing sugar and a few drops essence of vanilla, and keep it all stirred over a slow fire till sufficiently thick to coat, but not run off, the biscuits. Any icing may manifestly be used for them. The biscuits are ready when the icing is set and hard. Cream.—Mix together 12oz. each of fine sifted flour and cornflour with a saltspoonful of salt and loz. of caster sugar ; work this all to a smooth paste with clotted cream, using as little of this as possible. A gill may be put in first, adding more by spoonfuls till you get a dough stiff enough to roll with difficulty. Now beat ihis dough well with the rolling-pin, then roll it out pretty thin, cut it into squares, rounds, &c., prick these all with a fork, and bake in a steady oven. If the sugar is omitted and cayenne and a little more salt used instead, these make nice savoury biscuits that keep well. Remember that thick clotted cream may always be used where directions say “ cream the butter,” but be careful in this case not to get your dough too wet, and bear in mind that cakes made withBISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. 1-21 cream are moister and t ike longer to bake than the same cakes made with butter. Biscuits, Digestive.—Hub lib. of butter into 5lb. of wheat meal; make a hollow in the centre and pour into this four lightly beaten up eggs, with 4oz. sugar and ^oz. of car- bonate of soda; mix this all to a little pool of batter in the cent.e of the flour, then gradually draw down the latter from the sides with a circular motion of your fingers, moistening the dough thus produced with about one quart of water, added by degrees, till you get it all to a nice workable consistency. Take up one-third of this dough and roll it out to the thickness of a penny ; spread a clean cloth on the kitchen table, lift the dough on to the rolling pin and roll it out again on the cloth, then cut it into oval or round cakes, prick these, and place them in the oven. Finish off the rest of the dough in the same way. Fenloe.—Make a dough with equal parts of sifted flour, creamed butter (or a little less clotted cream), a little milk, and sugar. Use as little sweet milk as you can in mixing this. Roll the paste out rather thin, stamp out with a fluted cutter, and bake in a moderate oven till crisp and of a nice fawn tint. Filbert.—Blanch and pound 8oz. filberts and loz. of bitter almonds, adding a little egg white now and again to prevent their oiling. Beat the yolks of three eggs till light with 4oz. caster sugar, then beat in loz. dry flour, 4oz. more of caster sugar, the pounded nuts, a little finety grated lemon rind, and, at the last, the very stiffly whipped whites of six eggs. Pour this mixture into little paper caseq and bake in a moderate oven. Grandmother’ Mix together lib. dried and sifted flour, 2oz. rice flour, and a good pinch of salt. Cream together Jib. cf fresh butter and 4oz. caster sugar, then work in the flour, &c., by degrees, adding last of all one or two eggs to bind it, but no other liquid, and make it all up into a ball. Dust the pastry 1 oard or slab lightly with122 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. caster sugar and roll the paste out on this 1 o rather more than the thickness of a penny, using caster sugar instead of flour to facilitate the rolling. Now stamp it out in rounds, lay these on white kitchen paper, and bake a pale brown in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Milk—Slit a small teaspoonfui of baking powder into Jib. of flour. Slightly warm together a gill of milk and loz. of butter, add this to the flour, mix well, roil it out, stamp it into rounds, prick, and bake for twenty minutes. Oatmeal.—Work 3oz. of well clarified dripping into 13oz. of oatmeal, with a little salt, till it forms a solid cake. Now knead this with lib. ordinary bread dough, roll it out very thin, stamp it into rounds, and bake. —-—— 4oz. each of butter, flour, oatmeal, and sugar, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, a dessertspoonful of milk, cne egg, and powdered ginger to taste. Mix, roll out, cut into rounds, and bake twenty minutes in a pretty sharp oven. Orange.—Pare the rind very thinly from six Seville and three large sweet oranges, lay this rind into a delicately clean pan, cover it all with cold water, and bring it very gently to the boil. Directly it boils strain it off, cover the rind with more cold water, and simmer it in this till quite tender. Weigh the rinds and pound them to a smooth paste with their own weight of cane loaf sugar, moistening it as you pound with the juice of one of the oranges, adding the white of an egg and a little more sugar, as required, to get it to the right consistency to roll out as thin as you possibly can. Now prick it lightly all over, and leave it on sheets of well oiled paper on the hot plate till set. Then cut it into narrow strips, brush each over with orange flower water, dust with caster sugar, and dry in the oven for a minute, but not longer. Plain.—Mix lib. of flour to a dough with a yolk of an egg beaten up with as little milk as possible (too much milk will make the biscuits heavy), knead this all to123 BISCUITS AMD SMALL CAKES. a very stiff paste, roll it out thinly, out out in any fancy shapes, and bake for twelve to eighteen minutes in a slow oven. Biscuits, Vanilla.—Beat up the whites of three eggs very stiffly, and add 4oz. of caster sugar and one teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or orange flower water; mix very gently. Put paper over a baking tin, and put the mixture on in small teaspoonfuls. When half is used, add a few drops o': carmine to make the remainder pink. Bake in a very slow oven till they become hard, when they easily come off the paper. Vegetarian.—Mix together a bieakfastcupful of whole meal flour, Jib. of Brazil nut flour (or Alb. of any nut kernels blanched and pounded in a mortar), and half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Work this all to a stiff dough with two ■well beaten eggs, or a little milk ; roll it out, cut into rounds or squares, and bake. These are excellent biscuits (taken from the Vegetarian Messenger), but mind the Brazil nut flour is fresh, as otherwise the oiliness of these nuts will give the biscuits a rancid taste. Water.—Bub a piece of butter the size of a walnut into lib. of flour, add two tablespoonfuls each of caster sugar and cream, or new milk, and work in enough water to bring it to a stiff paste. Roll this out as thin as a wafer, cut it into rounds, prick each well with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven till of a pale brown. This is an old recipe, and in it directions are given to beat the dough for fifteen minutes before rolling it out, but this may be omitted. The quantity of sugar used for these biscuits is a matter of taste; if it is left out, using cayenne and salt instead, it produces good savoury biscuits that keep well if stored in an airtight tin. Yarmouth.—Rub a little flour with Jib. well washed and dried currants, mix them with Jib. sifted sugar, Jib. fine flour, and Joz. fresh butter; stir this all to a paste with three eggs, roll it out one-eighth of an inch124 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. thick, stamp out in any shapes to taste, and bake in a hot oven till lightly coloured. Brandy Snaj)S.—Mix together lib. of flour, Jib. of coarse brown sugar, 4oz. butter, a dessertspoonful of all- spice, two dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger, the grated rind of half and the strained juice of one lemon, and Jib. of treacle. Beat this all well together, spread the paste thinly on buttered baking sheets, and bake in a rather slow oven till well coloured. When baked cut it in rounds or squares, roll each round your Anger, or the handle of a wooden spoon, as you lift it from the tin, and store in airtight tins. Buns.—Bath Buns.—Rub lib. fine sieved flour with Jib. of butter, then add to this loz. of German yeast dissolved in a gill of warm milk, and four large, or five small, eggs, and work the whole up together to a smooth, light dough. Let this rise in a warm place for one and a half hours, then work into this 5oz. caster sugar and either loz. carraway seeds or a little finely shred citron peel, a little essence of lemon, and half a nutmeg grated. Flour a baking tin, drop the mixture on to this in spoonfuls (this should make from twelve to fourteen buns), let them rise for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg, strew them with roughly crushed loaf sugar, and bake for twenty to twenty-five minutes in a rather sharp oven. —- Chelsea.—Dissolve 2oz. sugar and Joz. yeast in a pint of warm milk (90°), then add three eggs and about 4oz. of flour to make a sponge, and leave it in a warm place for twro hours. When it settles it is ready. Now rub 6oz. of butter into lflb. fine flour, make it into a light dough with the sponge, adding in the sugar with a few drops of saffron and any flavouring to taste. Let this stand again to rise, then roll it out lightly with the rolling pin, and roll into it about fib. of puff paste. When blended, cut into squares, fold the corners into the centre, set it on buttered baking sheets, brush over with caster sugar (one or two spoonfuls125 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. dissolved in just enough boiling milk to melt it). Set the buns in a warm place for twenty-five to thirty minutes to rise, and bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Buns, Cocoanut.—Beat to a cream 11b. of white sugar and 3oz. of butter, add one gill of milk and one egg by degrees, then fib. of flour, into which has been sifted one tea- spoonful of baking powder; add jib. of cocoanut, mix well, shape into buns, and bake for fifteen or twenty miuutes. Cream.—Put lib. of flour in a basin, make a hollow in it with your knuckles, pour a teaspoonful of yeast, dissolved in a teacupful of tepid milk, into this, mixing into it a little flour from the sides, then cover and let it rise near the fire. Meanwhile, cream Ooz. of butter, or use 5oz. or 6oz. of clotted or thick cream, beat it up lightly with four whole eggs and a little flavouring to taste, and add this to the flour when well risen. Work the whole well together, again let it rise for an hour or so, and, when well risen, put little balls of this dough on to well buttered baking tins, 2in. to 3in. apart (being light these drop into bun shape', brush each over with egg and milk beaten up together, dust with roughly crushed loaf sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Currant or “Penny.”-—To half a gallon of water at 94° Fahr. add lib. moist sugar and ooz. German yeast. When this is all thoroughly dissolved, mix in well 7^1b. of flour. Let this rise, then add lib. lard and butter, 2oz. salt, and washed and dried currants to taste. Let it all rise again for half an hour in a warm place, then weigh it off in 2oz. or 3oz. buns, wash them over with egg, and bake. (This is a trade recipe.) Eggless.—Work2oz. butter, or clarified dripping, into a full pint of light, well risen bread dough, with two heaped tablespoonfuls of sugar, and grated nutmeg to taste. Let this all rise for an hour, then turn it on to a well-floured board and knead it till it is full of air bubbles and is elastic to the touch. Again let it rise for an hour,126 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. then knead it once more and make up in small balls with your floured hands. Put these balls on a buttered baking sheet, flatten slightly with the palm of your hand, butter the edges a little in case they touch, and again let them rise for an hour. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven, brush the top over with sugar syrup, and dust well with coarsely crushed sugar. Buns, Ginger.—Cream |lb. of butter with ^lb. of sugar, then add half a nutmeg (grated) and a tablespoonful of ground ginger; when this is thoroughly mixed, beat in two eggs, then lib. of flour, and sufficient milk to make it a nice workable paste. Roll it out about Jin. thick, cut it into buns, sprinkle the tops with roughly crushed suga”, set them on a baking sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Hot Cross.—Rub Jib. of butter, or clarified dripping, into 21b. of flour, then work in Jib. of sugar and Joz. of ground cinnamon, and the same of mace, if liked; now mix up 2oz. German yeast, with rather more than a pint of tepid milk, and two whole raw eggs lightly beaten together. When well mixed, add this to the flour, &c., and knead it all to a light dough ; put this into a basin, cover with a clean cloth doubled, and set the pan in a warm place for two hours till the dough has risen well. Now add, if liked, 4oz. well washed and dried currants, shape the dough into I'ound buns, put them on a buttered tin, mark them with a knife in a cross, and again let them rise for ten or fifteen minutes, when you brush them over with milk, and bake in a sharp oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Plain buns are made in the same way, only omitting the spice and the cross mark. If preferred, Joz. mixed spice may be used instead of the cinnamon and mace. Half pint water, three-quarters pint milk, two eggs, ljlb. currants or sultanas, |lb. butter, lib. sugar, 3oz. French yeast, 51b. flour. Make a sponge with the milk and water (heated to S0J), eggs, yeast, sugar, and about 4cz. of flour, cover up, and leave in a warm place for two to thiee127 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. hours. Kub the butter into the rest of the flour with the fruit and about ^oz. mixed spice (this is a matter of taste',, make it all into a weak, light dough, handling it as little as is consistent with well mixing, then cover and let it rise for an hour at least, till it is as light as you can get it; then weigh up in 21b. 2oz. pieces, make these up into twelve buns from each, set them on a buttered baking sheet not too close together, and set aside in a warm place till half risen ; then cut the cross in pretty deep (if not it will disappear when fully risen), let them finish rising, and when nice and light bake in a good but not a fierce oven (a cold oven will quite spoil the bun). When baked, wash over with an egg beaten up in a little milk. (This is a trade recipe.) Buns, Lemon.—4lb. flour, gib. butter or lard, Jjlb. sugar, four eggs, one pint milk, three-quarters of a pint water,. 2oz. yeast, a few drops essence of lemon, and a very little turmeric. Mix in the usual way for buns, and, when well risen, make the dough up into buns, brush over with milk,, dust with coarsely crushed sugar, place a strip of candied lemon peel on each, again let them rise, and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. This should make fifty buns. Plain (A confectioner’s recipe).—For fifty buns. take 4lb. of flour, ilb. of butter or lard, Jib. of common sugar, 2oz. of yeast, a quart of milk, lib. of well-washed and dried currants, a few drops of essence of lemon, and four eggs. The leaven for these buns should be set to rise over- night, as then the sponge will be ready by the early morn- ing, and will be bright and clear. Mix, weigh them off on the tins, brush them over with beaten egg, try them, and bake about ten minutes in a steady oven. Raspberry.—Make a soft dough with fib. sugar, Mb. butter, 4lb. fine sifted flour, four eggs, and Joz. baking powder, with enough milk to moisten it. Foil out in jound 2oz. pieces, put a dab of raspberry jam on each, pinch the dough up round to cover it, wash the tops over with milk, dip in caster sugar, and bake in a good128 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. oven. Naturally any jam may be vised instead of the raspberry. Bums, Saffron.—Mix one quart warm milk (have this warmer in winter than in summer), ^lb. flour, ^lb. sugar, 2oz. German yeast, and two eggs to a sponge, and let it rise in a warm place till it is as light as it will go. Then work in lib. more sugar, [oz. mixed spice, Joz. earraway seeds, and 41b. of flour (into which you have rubbed 12oz. butter), and enough tincture of saffron to colour it. When well worked to a soft dough, set it away, covered, in a warm place until it has risen several inches, then divide it evenly into balls, set these on warmed and buttered baking sheets, about one inch apart, again let them rise, then brush over with sugar dissolved in boiling milk, and bake at once in a hot oven. When taken out, brush over again with milk. N.B.—In making all buns let the sponge rise as high as it will, till nearly falling, before working to a dough, as this improves both the consistency and the appearance of the buns. Bakers, when making a good quantity—say 100 buns —set the sponge overnight, and it is then ready for mixing quite early in the morning. Cakes (Small).—African Shoots.—Cream together ilb. each of butter and caster sugar, then add one well beaten egg and a little flavouring (lemon, vanilla, &c.) to taste, mix well together, and lastly stir in Mb. flour very smoothly. It can be finished off either by forcing the paste on to a buttered tin with a plain bag and pipe, into sticks the length and size of your finger, or it may be turned out on a floured board, rolled out thinly, cut into rounds with a cutter or tumbler, and baked on a buttered tin for twenty minutes. Almond.—Beat six whole eggs with lib. of caster sugar till thick and white like cream, then mix in gently lib. ground sweet almonds and 3oz. finely sifted flour (pre- viously mixed with the almond meal), a spoonful at a time; flavour with a drop or two of essence of almonds ; put this129 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. paste into pretty little buttered moulds (previously dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar), and bake in a rather hot oven. Cakes, Almond and Chocolate.—Mix together Jib. each of freshly-ground sweet almonds aixd caster sugar, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, and 4oz. powdered chocolate, and when these are all well mixed to a smooth powder add in gradually the stiffly-whisked whites of six eggs, and directly this is all blended put it by spoonfuls at a time on to a buttered baking sheet, and bake at once. ■— Almond Shortcake.—Rub lOoz. of fresh butter into lib. of finely sifted Vienna flour, then work in 4oz. potato flour (fecule de pommes de terre), ooz. ground almonds, and 7oz. caster sugar. Now mix this to a paste with one large or two small eggs and a full tablespoonful of thick cream. Shape this paste into oval cakes half an inch thick, brush the tops with beaten egg-white, lay a thin shred of angelica or candied peel and some blanched and shred or chopped almonds on each, slip them very carefully on to a baking sheet, and bake a pale golden brown in a gentle oven, being careful not to lift the cakes from the tin till they are perfectly cold. Boston Cream.—Put 4oz. of butter and half a pint of milk into a saucepan, and stir a little while it comes to boiling point. Sift Ooz. of flour, and put it all into the satxcepan at once; stir vigorously until it is smooth and thick, and has been so for two or three minutes ; then remove from the fire and allow it to get cool. Drop in the yolks of four eggs one by one, stirring each thoroughly; beat up the four whites very stiffly, stir them in gently,but thoroughly ; put the mixture on a greased oven shelf in dessertspoonfuls, put into a moderately hot oven, and do not open the door for ten minutes. They take nearly fifteen or twenty minutes, and ought to rise very much and be baked quite firmly all over. Allow them to cool. Whip up half a pint of double cream, add to it one dessertspoonful of sugar and K130 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Make an opening at the top or side of each cake, and fill with the cream. A bag and tube fills them best. Dust some icing sugar on the top of each cake. Cakes, Buttermilk.—Mix lib. of fine flour with a teaspoon- ful of baking powder, and work it into a dough with loz. butter, a pinch of salt, and half a pint of buttermilk ; roll it out, cut into little cakes with a tumbler, bake, split, butter, and serve very hot. Coffee.—Put into a pan four whole raw eggs, half a tablespoonful of strong coffee, or coffee essence, and 6oz. caster sugar. Stand the pan over another full of boiling water and whip the eggs, &c., over this till it is all just warm, then lift the pan off and continue whipping the eggs, &c., till they are cold and stiff. Now sift in gradually 4oz. warmed and sifted flour, and loz. of creme de riz (previously mixed writh ^oz. of Cowen’s baking powder'. Brush some small fancy moulds over with warmed butter, dust them with equal parts of fine flour and caster sugar (rap each mould, as lined, sharply against the edge of the table to shake off any loose sugar', fill with the coffee mixture, and bake for fifteen minutes ; then turn out, and dust them lightly with caster sugar. Derby.—Cream together lib. each of butter and caster sugar and mix it with lib. 4oz. of flour and lib. well washed and dried currants ; mix to a paste with a whole egg, roll it out, stamp it out in little cakes, and bake. Derwentwater — Eub Jib. fresh butter into lib. flour; now mix in Jib. each of sugar and well washed and dried currants, and work it all to a paste with four well- beaten eggs (beating the yolks and whites separately). When this paste is stiff, roll it, stamp it out in little round cakes, and bake twelve or fifteen m nutes in a slack oven. Devon Cream.—Two pounds of flour, lib. clotted cream, Jib. moist sugar, Jib. well washed and dried currants, 4oz. finely shred candied peel, two eggs, a full gill of milk, a131 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. grate of nutmeg, a few drops of saffron, and last of all a small dessertspoonful of baking powder. Bake in small round buns. In Devon, yeast is often used instead of baking powder. Cakes, Drop.—Cream together 4oz. of fresh butter and caster sugar, then work in two egg yolks, loz. ground almonds, 2oz. rice flour, 3oz. finely sifted flour, six drops essence of almonds, and the stiffly-whisked whites of three eggs. Drop in small teaspoonfuls on a buttered and papered baking sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Flat, or Yorkshire Oven.—To ordinary bread dough add a little moist sugar and a few currants, then roll it out, spread it with morsels of lard, butter, dripping, or any fat available, fold it up, and roll it out once or twice, as in rolling puff paste ; cut it into rounds the size of a saucer and ljin. thick, bake in a sharp oven, and serve split open, buttered, and very hot. Fruit Short.—Boll out some good short pastry half an inch thick, mark it out in rounds, diamonds, &c., and bake in a good oven. Have ready any nice fruit puree or fool (apple or orange fool are particularly good for this) mixed with clotted or whipped cream, and when the cakes are baked, lift them out, and at once split them with a knife (previously dipped in boiling water, wiped, and dried), spread them thickly with the fruit mixture, cover with the topsides, dust with a little sugar, and serve hot or cold. Hot.—Sift two and a half to three teaspoonfuls of baking powder into 2lb. of flour, and make this quickly into a p iste with Jib. of butter, 2oz. or 3oz. of lard, and four eggs beaten up with a little milk. Mind not to have the dough too wet. Make this up quickly into cakes the size of a small muffin, and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven, turning them now an I again, as they bum very quickly; then split, butter, and serve very hot. These are also called slim cakes. They are particularly good if the baking powder is omitted, and all Coomb’s Eureka132 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS, flour, or 3oz. of Paisley flour to lib. of fine flour, is substituted. Cakes, Irish.—Cream 2£oz. of butter with 4oz. of sugar, then add the yolks of three eggs one by one, beating each thoroughly ; next add ^lb. of flour and one gill of milk alternately, beating all the time, then two tablespoonfuls of baking powder, and, last of all, the white of one egg beaten very stiffly. When all is mixed, butter carefully a square cake tin and dust it with plenty of flour, pour in the mixture, and bake about half an hour. Turn out, and when cool split in two, and prepare the following mixture: Put Alb. of grated chocolate and Rb. of icing sugar in a basin, beat up the two whites of eggs left from the cake very stiffly, and m'x. Spread one-half of this mixture on the half of the cake, put the other half on the top, and spread the remainder of the icing all over the top. Kentish Flead.—Make a rather rich puff paste, using “ flead ” (the inner “ leaf " fat of a pig) instead of lard or butter ; this is rolled out half an inch thick, cut out in rounds with a tumbler, baked in a quick oven, split, buttered, and served hot or cold, with sugar dusted over them. Raisins or currants are often mixed with the dough. Lancashire Oat.—This is made exactly like Scotch oatcake, save that buttermilk is used instead of water ; or else the meal is mixed as usual with water, but is left for two or three days to sour before baking. Meringue.—Beat the whites of four fresh eggs till stiff with a tiny pinch of salt, then mix in lightly 9oz. to lOoz. of caster sugar. Have ready a clean baking tin, previously warmed, and rubbed over with white wax, and force the meringue out on this with a plain pipe and bag, pressing it out in a kind of snail-shell cone, and bake these cakes in an oven too slack to do more than crisp them. If preferred coloured, a drop of any colouring to taste may be added to the meringue; or, again, when shaped they may133 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. be lightly dusted with icing sugar aud left in a moderate oven for two or three hours till crisp and of a delicate fawn colour. These can, of course, be flavoured to taste. Remember that, like all meringues, these cakes must be put into the oven the moment they are ready, as they will run if left standing. Cakes, Potato.—Bake four large potatoes in their skins, press out all their contents, and mix with this 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping and a little water, beating it well together. Now put 31b. of flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre with your knuckles, and into this drop the mashed potato, two whole eggs, and, lastly loz. of dried yeast previously creamed with a teaspoonful of sugar and dissolved in a pint of tepid milk. Knead this all together with as much water as will produce a very soft dough, and let it rise for several hours. When sufficiently risen, put this dough into well-buttered rings, and again let it rise before baking. About half a teaspoonful of salt should be added to each pound of flour, and, if handy, skim milk, or half milk half water, may be used in thp mixing instead of water. Queen or Drops.—Cream together lib. each of butter and sugar, then work to this (two or three eggs at a time) fourteen eggs, working each lot well in before adding the next (if too many are added together the mixture is liable to thin suddenly and to curdle in the beating up, a remark that applies to most cake mixing); now sift into this lib. of fine flour and 4oz. well washed and dried currants. When this is thoroughly mixed drop it on to a board spread with clean, strong paper in tiny heaps the size of a penny, and bake in a hot oven. Shrewsbury.—Cream together Jib. each of butter and caster sugar; then work in Jib. of fine sifted flour, moistening it with one whole egg; roll it out vei-y thin, cut or stamp it out in lozenges, rounds, &c.; ornament each with two or three carraway comfits or finely-shred134 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. candied peel, and hake in a moderate oven. A very nice variation of this is made by using lib. of flour, £lb. of butter, two whole eggs, fioz. caster sugar, 2oz. grated chocolate (or lloz. ground cinnamon), and enough milk to make a nice dough. Finish as before. Cakes, Sly — Roll out any pieces and trimmings of pastry left after apple pie or tart making ; cover with tiny dabs of butter, clarified dripping, or beef marrow; fold it and roll it out again, keeping it as even and square as you can. Have ready some currants or sultanas previously marinaded for an hour or so in wine or liqueur (rum is the proper thing, and only a very little sp'rit of any kind is needed, as a tablespoonful is enough for 4oz. or coz. of fruit); cover half the paste with these, dusting them as you do so with sugar and a little powdered spice to taste; then cover with the rest of the paste, pressing the two sheets well together ; stamp them out in rounds, &c., and bake in a hot oven. Eat p’ain or buttered, hot or cold. Orange Sandwich.—Grate the yellow outer part of one orange, after washing it well, and press out the juice. Put |lb. of flour, 3oz. of sugar, and 2oz. of butter into a basin, and sift into it half a teaspoonful of soda; mix the butter carefully into the flour till it is quite rubbed down. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin and beat them well; add to them the grated orange rind and juice, and mix thoroughly; then add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and stir again ; pour all into the basin with the flour, &c., and mix well. Beat the whites of the three eggs until stiff, and stir them in, pour all into two well-buttered sandwich cake tins, or two soup plates, and bake till ready. When cool, split and spread with the following mixture : One orange, 3oz. of icing sugar, one white of egg. Grate the rind of the orange, press out the juice and mix into the sugar, beat the white of egg stiffly, and stir in. Spread it over the cakes, put the two sides together, cut neatly, and serve.135 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. Cakes, Scotch, or “ Petticoat Tails.”—There are two derivations for this favourite Scotch dish (said to have been introduced from France by Mary Queen of Scots), petites gatelles, or petits gateaux tallies, from the cake being baked in one and afterwards cut up. Cream 4«z. butter with 2oz. caster sugar, then work in 8oz. fine sifted flour; make it up into a ball, then roll it out into a round the size of a large plate. Pinch up the edges all round, marking these edges lightly like shortbread, of which it is a variety, then stamp a round in the centre with a wine glass, and mark it out into eight spokes like a wheel, and bake on a girdle. Cut out by the divisions before serving. If an egg is used to mix this paste, and it is cut into squares, it is often called Tantallon cakes, whilst if made up into diamonds, exactly like shortbread, only much thinner and smaller, it is known by many cooks as Shrewsbury cakes. Plum, or “ Plum Heavies.”—Into lib. flour rub about 6oz. clarified dripping (beef preferred), sugar to taste, and Jib. currants or raisins ; moisten with water. Poll out, cut into rounds about half an inch thick, and bake in a brisk oven until slightly browned underneath. Potato Flour.—2oz. of butter beaten to a cream, 3oz. of potato flour, 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, one large egg beaten with a tablespoonful of cream, and two table- spoonfuls of well-washed and dried currants or finely chopped raisins. Mix these ingredients together and beat the mixture till it is quite light. Put it into small buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. To be eaten hot or cold, but they are not so good when stale. Or: lib. of potato flour, Jib. of fresh butter, Goz. of finely powdered sugar, two eggs, any essence liked. Beat the butter to a cream, add flour and eggs, and beat all together for twenty minutes. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheese biscuits made with potato flour instead of American flour are delicious. Sponge (" one a penny —Brush the little136 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. moulds well over with warmed, but not liquid, butter (or the coating will be too thin), dusting these well with equal parts of sugar And flour sifted together, rapping the moulds on the edge of the table to shake off any loose powder, and put them aside till wanted. For sixteen cakes take eight eggs, their weight (in their shells) of caster sugar, and the weight of six in flour; beat the egg yolks till quite light, and not the least ropy, then mix in the sugar quickly, and whisk it all well together for at least twelve to fifteen minutes, after adding the sugar. Now stir in the flour and the very stiffly whipped egg whites, quickly and lightly, in alternate spoonfuls, and half fill the moulds at once with the mixture; dust the top3 of the cakes with some of the sifted flour and sugar, and bake ten to twelve minutes in a moderate oven, covering the cakes with a buttered paper directly they begin to colour, to prevent their over- browning. A little flavouring may be added just at the last stage of the mixing, or loaf sugar rubbed on orange or lemon rinds, and pounded and sifted, or loaf sugar crushed with a vanilla bean, or some vanilla chocolate may be used, instead of plain caster sugar, to dust the moulds and the cakes. Remember, the great secret of sponge cake making lies in the evenness and thick- ness of the butter, sugar, and flour coating on the moulds. Cakes, Strawberry Short.—To lib. each of fine flour, caster sugar, and butter (or clarified dripping), allow one egg yolk ; rub the butter, sugar, and flour well together, and work it up to a nice dough with the egg yolk; then roll it out very thin, cut it into rounds, squares, or triangles, and bake in a moder-ate oven. When cooked and coldr mask half the cakes with crushed strawberries mashed with thick or clotted cream, and cover these sandwich- fashion with the other cakes, pressing them well together. Raspberries, whortle, or bilberries may all be used for these cakes (or even sieved jam and cream in winter).1o rr oi BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. but be careful to have the puree fairly stiff or it will overflow and make it. messy. Cakes, Tea.—Make a well in the centre of lib. of flour; mix loz. of German yeast with a gill of tepid milk, then stir in one whole well-beaten egg, and 3oz. fresh bxitter previously dissolved in a gill of warm water; pour this all into the well in the flour, gathering in lightly sufficient flour from the sides to produce a little pool of batter;, sprinkle a little fresh flour over this, cover the basin with a cloth and leave it for an hour in a warm corner to rise. Now knead the whole to a light dough, adding a little more milk if needed, then cut the dough across with a sharp knife, re-cover the pan, and let it rise again for half an hour. Next turn it out on a well-floured board or slab, roll it out lightly and quickly a full inch thick, cut it in rounds the size of a saucer, and set these on a floured tin near the fire to rise again for ten minutes; then brush them over with a little milk and caster sugar, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. They are then sliced, toasted lightly, buttered, put together into shape again, and served very hot. Some people add sultanas, carraway seeds, shred candied peel, &c., to this dough, in which case, when made up and baked, the cakes are simply split and buttered. If shaped into a long roll, baked, sliced, and these slices then browned and crisped in the oven, this recipe makes excellent rusks. Made with Baking Powder.— Sift together a small teaspoonful of baking powder and lib. of flour, rub 2oz. of butter or lard into this, with the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and a saltspoonful of salt; work this quickly to a light dough with a little warm milk, shape the dough into rounds, place on a well-floured baking tin, brush over with milk and sugar, and bake twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Delicious tea cakes can be made thus with the Hovis Lito flour, omitting the baking powder. Doughnuts.—Beat two eggs till light with Jib.138 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. :3ugar, then mix in four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a pint of milk, a saltspoonful each of salt and gi*ound •cinnamon, and a teaspoonful of baking powder, previously sifted with enough flour to make it all a soft dough ; roll 'this dough out lin. thick, cut it into rings or strips, twist these, then drop them into smoking hot fat; fry to a golden brown, drain well, and roll them in sifted vanilla sugar •whilst warm. (A form of this, known as “ Jersey Wonders,” is made by cutting the above dough (which for this should be rather stiff, and flavoured with powdered mixed spice instead of the cinnamon) into rounds, making a hole in the -centre of each, and finishing off as in the previous recipe.) Or : Take lib. of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, ;a little allspice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; mix a table- spoonful of yeast with four eggs and a little lukewarm miilk ; work all together thoroughly, and put the mixture in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, roll out half inch thick, cut round, and fry in boiling oil or lard until -of a golden brown. Drain on a moistened sieve before the fire. Strew sifted sugar over, and keep them in a cool place. Sometimes the cakes are insufficiently cooked in the -centre. To insure their being thoroughly done, drop each into the oil or lard as soon as it boils. They will take five or ten minutes to fry. Cakes, Eclairs.—Put into a pan half a pint of cold water, a few grains of salt, loz. of caster sugar, loz. of butter, and*a little grated lemon rind ; when this boils lift it off the fire, .and stir in by degrees enough fine flour to produce a thick, smooth paste (about 4oz. or ooz. should do this) ; now return it to the fire, and stir it sharply till it no longer sticks to the pan (a few minutes should be sufficient), then let it get -almost cold before you break into it one egg; stir this well into the paste; now add two more eggs, working each well in before the next is added, and then working it all till it is a smooth, thick, and elastic dough that recedes from the spoon as you lift the latter, leaving it quite clean, ItBISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. 139 should lift from the pan in a smooth, firm mass. Now put it into a bag with a plain pipe, and force it out in fingers on to a buttered baking sheet; brush each over with egg yolk beaten up with a little water, let these stand a quarter of an hour, then bake in a slow oven. When nicely coloured, dust them with caster sugar and return them to the oven till glazed. Leave on a pastry rack or reversed sieve till quite cold, then with a sharp-pointed knife slit them down the side, and fill them with cream, custard, or any other filling to taste, serving them plain or with any appropriate icing. If this paste is broken off in little balls or knobs the size of a walnut, and finished off as before, these are known as petits choux, Duchess loaves, or cream puffs, their special name depending on the filling used. If the sugar and lemon peel is omitted, and grated cheese and cayenne pepper used instead, these make very nice savoury eclairs, filled with any savoury cream or mince to taste, or if made very small are a delicious garnish for consomme aux profiteroles. Cakes, “Fat rascals.”—Rub 8oz. butter into 12oz. flour, then add 8oz. stoned and picked raisins ; mix it all to a stiff dough with a little milk, roll it out, and bake it on a girdle till nicely browned, turning it only once. When ready, cut it into squares, butter well, and serve at once, hot. Macaroons.—Macarons Aimes.—Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds, moistening as you pound with a few drops of egg white to prevent oiling ; then add to this 9oz. or lOoz. of fine rice flour, and about 1 Jib. of fine sifted sugar, working it all well and lightly together with a delicately clean spoon, adding the finely-grated rind of a small lemon and a little essence of vanilla. Now beat it all lightly for five minutes, then add the whites of four stiffly-whipped eggs, and drop this in little heaps the size of a florin on te papered baking sheets; make a little hollow in the centre of each with your finger, drop in this a little bright coloured jelly or marmalade, brush over with a drop or two140 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. of water, and bake in a slow oven. Be careful to get the paste to a nice soft dough, for if too soft or liquid it will run in the baking, whilst if too stiff the macaroons will be heavy. If the jelly is omitted, and rosewater used instead of vanilla, these are known as M. de Bruxelles. Macaroons, Almond.—Blanch and pound ilb. sweet and 4oz. bitter almonds, using a little egg white to prevent their oiling, and let them stand till next day. Now whisk three egg whites to a stiff froth, working in gradually, a vei’y little at a time, three full tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, and when this is amalgamated add in lightly a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, all sifted together, and a teaspoonful of either rose or orange-flower water, lastly adding in by degrees the pounded almonds. Be careful about the con- sistency of this paste for the above given reasons, thinning the dough with a little liquid, or thickening it with a few more pounded almonds, as may be needful. Now take up little pieces of this dough and roll it in your floured hands into little balls rather bigger than large marbles, set these on a buttered baking sheet, 2in. apart, lay some shred and blanched almonds on each, brush them over with plain sugar and water syrup, and bake for eight or nine minutes in a moderate oven till of a delicate fawn colour. Filberts, pistachios, or any nuts, can be used for this recipe, where variety is desii'ed. Chocolate.—Peel and pound lib. of almonds, mix with this Sib. of powdered sugar and four chocolate sticks (i.e., four divisions as they are usually marked on Suchard’s and other foreign chocolate when sold by the pound packet for cooking purposes, &c.), previously softened to a pulp by being placed just inside the oven. Moisten this paste when well mixed with enough white of egg to bring it to the proper consistency without making it wet. Drop it on buttered paper with a spoon, and bake as above. Grate very finely 2oz. of vanilla flavouredBISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES 141 chocolate, add loz. of icing sugar and a tablespoonful of water, stir over the lire till boiling, then simmer for a few minutes; whip up the whites of four eggs till quite stiff, mix in 5oz. of caster sugar and loz. of very finely chopped almonds (these almonds must be thoroughly dried after blanching), stir lightly to the chocolate mixture, then force it through a forcing bag with plain pipe in small cakes on to a baking tin heated and rubbed over with good white wax ; bake in a cool oven, and, when nearly done, place on each some slips of blanched almonds. Macaroons, Chocolate. — Mix Jib. of freshly - ground almonds with 4oz. finely-grated vanilla chocolate and £lb. sifted sugar, working it to a nice paste with the stiffly- whipped whites of three or four eggs ; drop this in little round heaps on a buttered baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, a little strong black coffee or coffee essence may be used instead of the chocolate, flavouring it with a few drops of maraschino. Cinnamon.—Beat together -Jib. of sifted sugar, two whole eggs and two yolks, with three full dessert- spoonfuls of rum, till it is all light (for twenty or thirty minutes), always beating it one way; then stir in 3joz. of baked and powdered almonds, the very finely grated rind of a lemon, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of fine flour; drop it in little heaps on a baking tin covered with wafer paper, and bake to a golden yellow in a moderate oven. Cocoanut.—Grate two cocoanuts very finely, and mix with an equal weight of sifted sugar, half a teacupful of ground rice, the yolks of three eggs, and lastly the stiffly - whipped whites. Mix this all lightly together and drop it in tiny heaps (about 2in. apart) on a baking sheet, and bake. — Grate 2oz. of cocoanut and leave it for two days spread on a sheet of paper to dry, then stir it and 4oz. sifted sugar into the stiffly-whipped whites of two eggs:14’- BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. drop this mixture in small teaspoonfuls on a ptpered tin, and bake in a cool oven till hard, say, for about half an hour, though, if more convenient, these cake3 may be put into the oven the last thing and left till next day. Pralines.—Blanch and bake a full ^lb of almonds to a rich brown (be careful not to let them burn i, and pound them with loz. of candied orange flowers, moistening this with the whites of two eggs, beating it well together and working in gradually l()oz. of caster sugar. Lay this in oval cakes on wafer paper, and bake in a moderate oven till fairly crisp. Garnish if liked with crystallized orange flowers. Petits Fonts.—This is the generic name for all kinds of small cakes, usually much decorated with icings, crystal- lised fruits, bonbons, &c., and nowadays in much request as much for their appearance as for their flavour. A very easy form of these is produced by slicing down more or less thinly any kind of nice cake, such as Madeira, sponge, orange, chocolate, &c. These slices, if thick, are then stamped out in diamonds or rounds, covered smoothly with any delicate glace to taste, a bonbon, crystallised fruit, or flower, or even a cube of bright-coloured jelly being placed on each as a garnish. If sliced thinly, half the slices are spread with sieved jam, jam and cream, clotted or whipped cream, nut filling (royal icing into which you mix as many blanched and chopped nuts of any kind as it will take up), almond paste (2£lb. freshly ground almonds and 3|lb. of cane icing sugar worked to a stiff dry paste with the whites (unbeaten) of seven or eight eggs, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and a sherry-glassful of brandy, rum, or liqueur as you please', or heat a small pot of apricot or other good jam with one or two spoonfuls of rum, brandjq liqueur, or any flavouring to taste, and when warm and thick spread it generously on the cake. Cover these slices with the rest of the cake, sandwich fashion, pressing them lightly together, then when firm trim to any shape desired, and ice withBISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. 143: liqueur or other flavoured glace to taste. Very pretty little- sandwich cakes can be made thus of diamonds of chocolate cake. Spread half with apricot jam, heated as above and mixed with a little rum or brandy, cover with the rest, and then ice with liqueur icing, on which, when set, you place a tiny spray of mistletoe made with angelica leaves and the tiny transparent berries sold for the purpose. Orange cake, spread with sieved marmalade and cream, iced with orange glace, and garnished with a quarter of an orange previously dipped in boiling sugar, is also very pretty. Such cakes are easily made by any deft-handed person with a little goodwill, and add enormously to the beauty of a table, as they can be coloured to suit any style of decoration chosen. These hints are easily varied indefinitely, but the following individual recipes will give an idea of the immense variety known to French confectioners. Petits Fours Franrais.—The ordinary French foundation for these is made thus: Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs till light with lib. sifted sugar,, then stir in quickly the very stiffly whipped whites of the egg and lib. warmed and sifted flour, in alternate spoonfuls, adding at the same time a little grated lemon or orange rind, or any flavouring to taste. This paste may now be dropped on buttered tins in, tiny heaps, baked to a golden brown, and when cold covered with icing, blanched and shred nuts, or any bonbons to taste. Or the paste may be put into- any well-buttered fancy moulds to taste, previously thickly dusted with equal parts of flour and caster sugar, baked, and either served plain, or iced and decorated as before. Madelaines Glacees.—Stir together over the fire 4£oz. sifted sugar, 4oz. flour, three whole eggs, and the yolks of two more, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a grain of salt, till it thickens, then stir it for one minute only; meanwhile stir 5oz. fresh butter over the hot plate till it begins to liquefy, when you quickly brush it over sixteen little madelaine moulds 'tiny fluted, patty pans will do), and stir144 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. the residue into the paste, stirring it again over the fire till it becomes soft, but not hot; pour a little of this into each mould and bake in a moderate oven. Madelaines Fourrees are very favourite French cakelets. Make the madelaines as above, and set them aside till cold; meanwhile stir together 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, filberts, pistachios, Sec., as you please, and four tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade. When the cakes are cold slice a piece thinly off the underside of each, and scoop out as much as you can of the inside, being careful not to break them; fill up with the nut mixture, press the cut-off piece into place, and ice and decorate the cakes to taste. Little queen cakes also are excellent thus. Petits Cannelons aux Confitures.—Butter a baking tin, and spread it with a sheet of buttered paper, whip two whole eggs till light and frothy with 3£oz. to 4oz. of caster sugar, then mix in quickly 4oz. fine sifted flour, previously sifted with half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Pour this rather thinly into the papered tin, and bake in a sharp oven till delicately browned, being careful not to overcook it, or it will break in the rolling. Now lay a piece of white paper on the table, dust it with caster sugar, turn the cake when ready on to this (upside down), cut it quickly into 3in. squares, spread these at once with warmed and sieved jam, jam and cream, Vienna icing, or any other filling to taste, roll each up quickly, and set them singly on a reversed sieve to cool. Speed is the great secret with these, for unless rolled up sharply whilst hot and soft they will break and crumble. This paste is also used for petits fours. Petites Genoises au Chocolat.—Beat the yolks of five eggs with 4oz. of caster sugar for five minutes till light, then add in 2oz. of creamed butter, and the stiffly-whipped whites of the five eggs alternately with 3oz. dried and sifted flour. Whisk this all well together, then fill any little fancy moulds to taste (previously buttered and dusted with equal parts of sugar and flour sifted together) with the paste.145 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. and bake in a quick oven to a golden brown. When per- fectly cold, mask these cakes with a chocolate glace, placing on the centre of each, as the glace is setting, a square of any stiff, highly-coloured jelly, with a blanched nut of any kind fixed in this, and use plain or in tiny paper cases. (These add enormously to the value of such trifles, and cost but little if bought in quantities.) If preferred, this paste can be baked as in the preceding recipe, stamped out to taste, and finished as above. The flavouring, which should be added when beating it all up, may be varied : 2oz. freshly- ground almonds and loz. grated vanilla chocolate, or a good dessertspoonful of strong coffee or coffee extract, or any liqueur to taste being used. Genoises au Chocolat.—Put into a basin about a ^lb. of flour and ooz. of sugar well sifted and slightly flavoured with chocolate. Mix this thoroughly with a wooden spatula, add two whole eggs, the yolks of three more, 5oz. of butter, and 2oz. of almonds peeled and pounded in a mortar with the white of an egg. To this, when it is well mixed, add, if desired, a little chocolate essence, or chocolate dissolved and rubbed smooth in about one tablespoonful of water. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the paste into small paper cases, either square or round (the former are generally used), and bake them in a mode- rate oven. When done, remove the cases and put back the cakes to dry in the oven. They should be iced with choco- late icing. Sitot Faits.—Stir the yolks of six eggs first with fib. of finely pounded sugar; then add Alb. of pounded almonds, Jib- of grated chocolate, and, finally, the same quantity of flour. Work the paste thoroughly, and put in the whisked whites of the eggs. Butter some moulds of any desirable size, fill them with the mixture, bake them in the oven, and do not turn the biscuits out till nearly cold, so as to avoid breaking them. Cocurs au Chocolat.—Slightly beat up the yolks of eight L146 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUIT eggs, and stir in, as briskly as possible, lib. of pounded almonds, Jib. of sifted sugar, 2oz. of grated chocolate (not the sweet make), and Joz. of grated or pounded cinnamon. When well mixed work into this paste the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Cut this pastry with fancy heart- shaped moulds, after having rolled it out lightly; bake them on tins, and ice them or not when they are taken out of the oven. Fcinchonettes. — A generic name for a kind of French tartlet, of which there are many sorts. The usual way is to line some small plain or fancy patty pans with thinly rolled puff pastry, then fill them with any nice pastry cream, or custard to taste, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. They are then covered with a stiff meringue (made with three egg whites, 3joz. of caster sugar, and a drop or two of flavouring) in a rather high dome shape, and returned to the oven till crisp, and, if liked, slightly coloured. Some cooks further garnish them with coloured jelly, icing, glace, fruit, &c. If liked, any rich jam may be used with, or instead of, the cream, with the addition of sultanas, shred almonds, &c. In short, they are of the same class as the English character. Feuillantines.—Roll out some rich puff paste a quarter of an inch (or less) thick, and cut or stamp it out in rounds or fingers ; put half of these on a buttered tin, allowing a good space between them, spread them with warmed and sieved jam, creme patissiere, &c., as you choose, then cover these with the rest of the pastry, pressing them lightly together, and bake quickly in a very sharp oven. If preferred, roll the paste out into two circles the size of a dinner plate, spread with any filling to taste, and cover with the second circle, then mark it out in segments with the back of a knife and bake. When ready, cut through at these marks. Some cooks dust these cakes with white of egg and caster sugar just at the last, before taking them from the oven. Petits Fours Milanais.—Beat 12oz. fresh butter to a147 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. cream with 12oz. caster sugar ; now mix in four whole eggs, one by one, working each in well separately; then work in thoroughly lib. fine sifted flour, and, when perfectly mixed, put the paste aside for four hours or so in a cool place. Then roll it out half an inch thick, and cut into little fancy cakes with a cutter. Put these cakes on an iron baking sheet, brush each over with egg yolk beaten up with milk, put a preserved cherry, a strip of angelica, or a blanched nut, or a dragee on each, and bake in a hot oven. Petits Fours a VAnglaise.—Cut a rich pound cake into inch thick squares and ice with the following glace: Mix 4oz. of cane icing sugar with half a tablespoonful of strong coffee or coffee essence, and the same of hot water, and stir this all over the stove till warm and well blended. Place a strip of candied peel, an almond, or any small glace fruit to taste on each. Othellos and Desdemonas.—Cream 4oz. fresh butter (or use rather less clotted cream) with Jib. caster sugar (previously beaten with four well-beaten egg yolks) till light, then stir in, in alternate spoonfuls, lib. of fine flour, previously sifted with a teaspoonful of baking powder, and the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs. Bake this paste in very small buttered patty pans, or little bouche moulds, for twelve to fifteen minutes, and when perfectly cold mask half the number with vanilla chocolate, just enough melted to pour, and the other half with royal icing, or any white, flavoured glace. Praline Fingers.—Blanch lib. of almonds (or any nuts to taste), then lay these, when dry and chopped, in a pan in which you have dissolved lib. of caster sugar, and let them brown slowly over a low fire. When coloured and crisp crush them in a mortar with a whole egg. Now work this to a smooth paste with, for each pound of this praline, lib. of fresh butter, ljlb. of fine sifted flour, a tiny dust of salt, four whole eggs, and the yolks of eight more. Wrhen thoroughly blended shape this paste into little fingers or148 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. sticks, brush them over with beaten egg, place them on a buttered baking sheet, and bake in a cool oven. If liked, these cakes may be brushed over with any nice fruit jelly, rolled in caster sugar, and dried in the oven. Croqv.cintes a la St. James.—Mix thoroughly together equal parts of freshly-ground sweet almonds and caster sugar, with just enough white of egg to get it all to a stiff paste, adding any flavouring to taste (vanilla, orange flower water, liqueur, or liqueur syrup, &c.), then roll it out very thinly, stamp it out with a plain round cutter, and bake on a buttered paper in a slow oven. Dimples.—Beat to a stiff meringue the whites of three eggs and 41b. of sugar ; now stir into this fib. of blanched and finely shred almonds till it is all a stiff mixture, and drop it in drops about the size of a penny on a baking sheet covered with white paper, and bake in a slack oven.— Trifles : Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs with a salt- spoonful of salt, then sift in enough fine potato flour to make it all a stiff paste; roll this out very thin, stamp it oirt in thin rounds, fry in boiling lard, and serve sprinkled with either sugar or coralline pepper. Petits flows cmx Pistaches.—Take lib. of fine pistachios, 2oz. of sweet almonds, the whites of ten eggs, the yolks of six, 2oz. of flour, and lib. of sugar ; blanch the nuts, stand them in cold water for a few minutes, drain off the moisture, and dry them in a cloth. Pound them in a mortar, adding from time to time some white of egg, not taken from the above-mentioned quantity. The eggs should be whipped, the whites and the yolks separately, the latter being mixed with half the sugar and a little grated lemon zest. Mix the flour and sugar in a strainer ; whip the whites and yolks together, sprinkling the while with the contents of the strainer; when they are used up, the paste should be of the necessary consistency; put it into small cases, glaze them on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate Cases.—Stir the yolks of six eggs in a basin149 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. with 6oz. of finely sifted sugar and l|oz. of vanilla-flavoured chocolate, grated very fine. Beat up these ingredients together for half an hour, then add 6oz. of good dry flour, and work the mixture again ; whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the paste, stirring very lightly with a wooden spatula. Take up the mixture in spoonfuls and drop it on to sheets of buttered paper, or put it into small paper moulds; sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Chocolate Wafers.—Mix 4oz. grated vanilla chocolate, ^lb. caster sugar, and the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs with ju3t enough fine flour to form a smooth paste. Now roll this paste out as thin as a penny, stamp it out into little rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, lay these on the baking tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a slow oven. When cooked, slip a palette knife under them to detach them fi-om the tin, and set them for a minute or so in the oven mouth to dry them. If preferred these may be rolled out into 3in. or 4in. cakes, and then, when lifted from the tin, roll each quickly round the finger or the handle of a wooden spoon, and dry as before. Bushs.—These cakes, known in Germany as Zwieback (twice baked), are primarily made of any light rich cake dough, rolled out into a long bolster shape, baked to a light brown, and when somewhat cool sliced fairly thinly and set in the oven to crisp and colour. The dough used for milk (or, as we call it, Vienna) bread, if enriched with an egg or two, some caster sugar, and a generous grate of lemon rind, well mixed in, together with an ounce or two of butter, then allowed to rise once more for a little, shaped into a long roll, and baked a light brown, makes delicious tea rusks. Or : Mix in a large basin or pan 4lb. of fine flour, 2oz. of sugar, 6oz. of butter, and one quart of milk to a smooth dough; then add to this a tablespoonful of thick yeast, dissolved in half a gill of warm milk, and work it all thoroughly together. Then cover the pan, and leave it in a150 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. warm place till well risen. Weigh it out in 21b. pieces, shaping these into a long, even roll, cutting the ends square, and slightly flattening them on the top; bake in a moderate oven till nicely browned. Let them now stand two days, then slice evenly crosswise with a sharp knife, and bake till crisp and delicately coloured on both sides in a sharp oven. Store in airtight tins. Or: Put 21b. fine flour and a pinch of salt in a pan; dissolve 4oz. of butter in half a pint of milk, then stir to this six well-beaten eggs and two table- spoonfuls of yeast. Rub this all gradually into the flour till it forms a very smooth dough, when the pan must be covered and the dough allowed to rise. Then knead it well, make it up into small bun-shaped pieces, an'i bake on buttered tins in a sharp oven. When cooked outside, lift these cakes oait, tear (not cut) them in half, and return them to the oven till quite crisp. “ Singing Hinnie.”—This is a kind of girdle cake very popular in the north country, and is made thus: Mix together flour and creamed butter (or thick cream) till it forms a thick stiff paste. Roll this out lightly twice till it is half an inch thick, shape it into round cakes, and bake on a girdle or a hot plate, turning it as soon as one side is baked, to colour the other; split, butter well, and serve hot. Do not over-roll it or it will become a kind of puff paste.CHAPTER YI. FOREIGN CAKES. Apfel Kuchen.—Work well together Alb. fresh butter and lib. flour, and when well mixed work in 4oz. sugar, loz. mixed spice, and the yolks of two eggs; when this is well kneaded together cut the paste in two, and line the bottom of a round cake or fleur tin with one part. Cover this with apples stewed with a little sugar and some well washed and dried currants (use when cold) ; roll out the other piece of paste and cover the tart with this. Bake for half an hour and leave it till cold in the baking tin, then ice and garnish to taste. Some cooks instead of stewing the apples core and slice them thinly and arrange them on the paste, with powdered cinnamon and sugar to taste, and about 2oz. blanched and shred almonds strewed over all. Then the top is covered over with a lattice of pastry strips, brushed over with egg white and roughly strewn with sugar, the whole being then baked in a fairly hot oven till the apples are tender and the paste well coloured. It may be served hot but is prettier cold, when a little rose of stiffly whipped cream is forced out on to every alternate square between the pastry strips, a little cube of currant jelly or a halved crystallised cherry being set on each heap of cream. Apostel Kuchen.—This is an essentially German cake, and, indeed, mostly confined to certain parts of that country. Mix together 6oz. of fine sifted flour with four tablespoonfuls152 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. of yeast and about a gill of tepid water. Get this to a fairly firm dough, then cover the pan and set it in a warm place to rise. When it has risen well, work into it lib. 2oz. more flour, 31b. fresh butter (slightly warmed if the weather is cold), the yolks of six eggs, and six whole eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a teaspoonful of salt; then knead well, moistening the dough as it stiffens with a little fresh cream. Now turn this dough out on to a pastry board and pull it to pieces, gathering these pieces together again and reworking it, kneading it well till it forms a smooth dough free from any lumps. Roll this dough then into a ball, wrap it in a floured cloth, and leave it all night in a cool place or in the cellar. It should have risen to nearly twice its original size before it is used. Now put it on the board, nip off a small piece to form a kind of central knob or flower, and shape the rest of the dough with your hands, giving it a sort of twist as you do so, into a round and fix the knob in the centre. This cake should rise slightly towards the centre in the outer twist. Now put the cake on a well-buttered tin, draw some lines or patterns on it with the point of a knife from the sides to the centre, brush it well over with yolk of egg, and bake in a sharp oven. These cakes require quick, sharp baking, and the least slackness in the oven will make them heavy and sad. Baba.—Prepare a dough for this with lib. of flour, lOoz. of butter, 2oz. of caster sugar, loz. German yeast, eight eggs, and a teaspoonful of salt, setting a sponge and working it up precisely as for brioche paste, until the dough and the sponge are thoroughly mixed together. Then work into it ooz. carefully stoned Muscatel raisins, loz. finely shredded candied peel (citron is best), half a gill of either brandy or rum, and a pinch of saffron previously infused in half a gill of boiling water. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly into the dough ; then butter a mould well, half fill it with the dough, and set it in a moderately warm place to rise till it reaches fully up to the top of the mould, baking it to a niceFOREIGN CAKES. 153 golden colour in a moderately hot oven. Turn it out and serve. If preferred, the spirit may be omitted altogether or replaced by liqueur syrup. Abroad, a baba is usually served as a dinner sweet, and is sent to table hot with a rich jam sauce, or a fruit or liqueur syrup poured over it. It is of Polish origin, and is the same class of cake as a savarin, or brioche. Brioche.—Put about 4oz. of sifted flour on the pastry board (or, better still, if at hand, the pastry slab), make a hollow in the centre and pour into this loz. of German yeast dissolved in a little tepid water; work it together, adding, if necessary, a little more warm water to get it just to a soft mass. Be careful to use as little water as possible. Now knead it all up into a ball and put it into a delicately clean pan capable of holding at least three times as much, cover the lid down closely, and set it in a moderately warm place to rise. It does not need to be hot, in fact, in ordinary summer weather it may stand anywhere in the kitchen out of the draught, except close to the fire. Mean- while, put 12oz. of flour on the board, hollow it out as before, and into this hollow put about a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, and dissolve it with two tablespoonfuls of water; now mix in lOoz. of butter and six eggs (three at a time), working it well with both hands to get it thoroughly mixed. There is a knack in mixing brioche paste, which, though easy enough to acquire if seen, is rather difficult to describe. You should work it with both fists pressed flat on the slab, working it back and forth, gathering the dough together closely with both hands, and slapping it down on the slab till there are no lumps in the dough, and the paste is as elastic and yielding as a lump of indiarubber. By this time the sponge (he., the flour and yeast ball) should have risen to about three times its first size, so lift it out and spread it on the mass of worked dough (it should look like a piece of sponge, whence its name), and work the two mixtures well but154 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. lightly together. Now spread a clean cloth in a basin, dust it with Hour, lay in the ball of paste, dust this also with flour, fold the ends of the cloth over it all, and set it in a cool place this time, but one free from any draughts, and leave it till the next morning. Next day flour your pastry board, turn out the brioche on to it, dust more flour over it, and fold the paste over five or six times, always pressing it down again each time with your knuckles. Now put it back into the cloth, fold the latter over it, and leave it for three hours, when the kneading and knuckling should be repeated. Then butter a mould or a baking sheet, and either half fill the former, or shape the dough into little rolls and set them on the latter, brush them well over with egg, and make a little round hole in the top of each, then bake twenty to twenty-five minutes for the small things, and about an hour for the mould. If the dough is rightly made it will look full of little air bubbles, and will resist a touch as a lump of indiarubber would. A very nice savoury may be made of this by working into the paste at the last about 4oz. grated Parmesan, and baking it in little rolls, which are served sprinkled with freshly grated cheese, minced parsley, and coralline pepper. If these rolls are made very small they make also a delicious garnish for soup. Brot Torte.—Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds, moistening them in the mortar as you pound them with a few drops of water to prevent their stiffening ; then work into them first Jib. finely sifted sugar, adding gradually (keeping it stirred all the time) the grated rind of a lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, and two or three cloves pounded (or mixed spice to taste); moisten about 6oz. crumb of brown (in Austria it is of course the local black) bread, with a full tablespoonful of Tokay or Spanish wine, stir this into the mixture, and then beat in two whole eggs and the yolks of six more; beat this all together till it is quite light and rothy (this will take half an hour), then add the stiffly-155 FOREIGN CAKES. whipped whites of four eggs, and hake in a well-buttered fancy mould. The heat of the oven should be even and moderate, for if too hot the torte will be raw in the centre and hard outside. Leave it in the mould till nearly cold, then turn it out, and when perfectly cold ice with the following : Rub 12oz. of cane loaf sugar on the peel of an orange till it has absorbed all the yellow part, then pound and sift it, adding a very little more finely sifted sugar if it does not weigh quite 12oz.; put this sugar in a delicately clean pan with the juice of half a large orange, stirring it all well with a wooden spoon till the sugar dissolves, then add in gradually the rest of the orange juice, stirring it all the time over the fire, till it is of the proper icing consistency. Now lift off the pan, and keep the icing mixture stirred gently for half an hour. It is well worth this trouble, which makes it beautifully light and easy to spread. Mask the cake with it in the usual way, and set it away in a warm dry place to dry and stiffen before serving it. Christ-Stollen (Christmas Rolls).—Put 2lb. of flour into a pan and make a hollow in the centre of it, dissolve six spoonfuls of good yeast in a third of a pint of tepid milk, pour this into the bay in the flour, draw down sufficient of the flour to make a small pond of the batter, dust it with a little fresh flour, and leave it in a warm place to rise. When it has risen nicely add to it Jib. of creamed butter and a tea- spoonful of salt, working it all well together into a nice dough with the flour. When this is all thoroughly blended, stir in gradually lb. of sultanas or well washed and dx-ied currants. Jib. of caster sugar, 3oz. or 4oz. of blanched and finely shred almonds, and either a tiny pinch of pounded cloves or half the finely grated rind of a lemon, as you please, keeping up the kneading all the time. When everything is well mixed in and the dough is smooth, set it in a warm place and again let it rise; then divide it in half, shape each into a roll, and place it on a well156 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. floured baking sheet, let it rise for a few minutes again, then cook for three-quarters of an hour; when ready take them out, brush them over at once with liquefied butter, and dust them with caster sugar mixed with a little powdered cinnamon. These cakes are better if kept for two or three days before eating. Braunschweiger Kuchen (German).—Make a good dough with about lib. of fine, dry, sifted flour, fib. of fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, three-quarters of a pint of cream, four tablespoonfuls of fresh brewer’s yeast, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of sugar ; work it well as stated above, set it to rise, then work into it about 4oz. of sultanas and currants respectively. Spread the dough on a buttered paper in a layer of the thickness of half to three-quarters of an inch; cover it with a cloth, and set it to rise till more than double its original thickness; prick it all over with a pointed piece of wood, brush it with egg, sprinkle the cake thickly with chopped almonds and a little sugar, and bake slowly for half an hour. Butter Kuchen (German).—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work in one whole egg and 4oz. caster sugar ; now add in gradually Jib. of flour, working it till the paste leaves the side of the basin, and flavour it to taste. In Germany cinnamon is mostly used to flavour this cake. When well mixed, spread it on a floured baking tin, to the depth of two inches, and let it bake for five minutes ; then lift it out, and with a knife mark it out pretty deeply into squares or strips, return it to the oven and let it bake for twenty-five minutes longer, then lift it out and serve dusted with coarsely pounded loaf sugar, chopped almonds, and a little cinnamon or vanilla, &c. This paste when cooked is so brittle that, unless divided before it is fully baked, it would crumble to pieces. Chocolate Cake {American).—Take two cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of milk, three and a half cups of flour, the yolks of five eggs and theFOREIGN CAKES. 157 •whites of two, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Mix and bake in exactly the same way as lemon jelly cake, only filling and icing with chocolate icing. Or, if preferred, it may be baked in one tin, and the icing poured over the top only. Chocolate Icing.—Take one cup of sugar, four tablespoon- fuls of water, the well-beaten white of one egg, a pinch of cream of tartar, and loz. of unsweetened chocolate grated. Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup will string when poured from the end of a spoon. Stir the grated chocolate into the stiff white of egg, to which has been added the cream of tartar. Slowly pour the boiling syrup on the egg, beating hard all the time. Beat until the mixture begins to cool and thicken, and then spread it between the layers of cake, and on the top. Butter Torte (German).—This has nothing much to do with its name ; simply make a good pastry with butter, roll it out, and spread it on a suitable baking tin of the required size. Over this place another layer of pastry, but allow the lower one to exceed the upper one all round by the width of two fingers. Boll out a third layer a little smaller still, and cut out the centre so as to make a space for the fruit which has to occupy the centre. Have ready some fine peaches, stoned and cut in half ; crush one half of these with some caster sugar, and spread them over the middle of the tart, sprinkling the edges with pounded sugar; bake this tart for half an hour in medium heat. Meantime, stew the rest of the peaches in some sugar, arrange them according to taste all over the tart, and over the whole place the kernels of the fruit, previously extracted from the stones,, scalded, and coarsely chopped. Serve hot or cold. Carraway Cake (American).—Beat Mb. of butter to a cream with §lb. of caster sugar, then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, mixing them well in ; lastly, add 10oz.. of dried and sifted flour (previously mixed with half a grated nutmeg, the same amount of powdered cinnamon,.158 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. and loz. of carraway seeds) in spoonfuls alternately with the whites of the eggs whipped into a very stiff froth, and bake about an hour in a quick oven. This makes a rich cake. A plainer one is produced by getting a quartei’n of bread dough from the baker’s; set it in a warm place, covered with a cloth, to rise ; beat Jib. of butter or clarified dripping to a cream, and work this well into the risen dough, adding lastly 12oz. of moist sugar, loz. of carraway seeds, and one well-beaten whole egg. Knead all this well together, then put the mixture into a buttered cake tin, and set it before the fire to rise again. After this bake in a thoroughly heated oven for two hours for a large cake, or for one hour if you divide the dough into two cakes. Chocolate Turban (Swiss).—Stir in a large basin the yolks of twelve eggs, together with Jib. of pounded sugar, Jib. of grated chocolate and of pounded almonds respectively, Jib. of butter melted or beaten to a cream, and a pinch of pounded vanilla. Work this paste for half an hour, then add 6oz. of fecula (potato flour), and stir for ten minutes more. Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, beat them lightly into the paste, and put it all into a fancy mould of lined copper. Set it first of all in a moderate oven and increase the heat by degrees. This cake should bake for one hour. Half these quantities can be used if desired; this is for twelve persons. Cussy (French).—Break five fresh eggs into a stewpan, add Jib. of sugar, and whip it over a gentle fire till lukewarm, then lift it off, and continue the whipping until it is quite cold and light. Now stir in 4oz. ground almonds, 6oz. ground rice or creme de riz, and 5oz. of butter beaten to a cream. Place this mixture in square moulds or saucers, well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven. When baked and perfectly cold, trim the cakes, spread them with apricot jam, then place them one on top of the other neatly, and ice the whole with orange glace made thus : Put 6oz. finest icing sugar into a stewpan with three159 FOREIGN CAKES. dessertspoonfuls of orange juice, and stir it over the fire till just warm, and use. Of course, if liked, half orange juice, half liqueur may be used in making the glace. Dainty Calces (American).—Cream 4oz. fresh butter with Jib. caster sugar; sift together 4oz. corn flour and 6oz. wheat flour, with a teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, then mix this lightly to the creamed butter in alternate spoonfuls with the stiffly-whipped whites of eight eggs. Flavour with lemon peel, rose or orange flower water to taste, and bake in a buttered papered cake tin, covering it lightly with paper over the top to save it from over-colouring. Honig-Kuchen (German).—Boil together lib. each of honey and sugar till thin, then stir in lib. of unblanched, finely chopped almonds, a saltspoonful each of powdered cinnamon, cloves, and ginger, a grate of nutmeg, a little finely shred candied peel, a pinch of white pepper, a few cardamoms, a tiny pinch of potash dissolved in a little brandy, and lib. of cornflour. Mix this all to a smooth dough, and leave it to rise in a warm place till the morning, then stand it for twenty-four hours in the cellar or some cool place. Boll this out about half an inch thick, cut it out in oblong pieces, ornament it with blanched and split almonds, and bake, glazing it with a little sifted sugar and a hot shovel or salamander. Gateau de Noisettes (French).—Beat the yolks of six eggs and 4oz. caster sugar for fifteen minutes, then add in gradually 4oz. ground Barcelona nuts, loz. ground almonds, two powdered cloves, and five coffee beans powdered. Beat these well in for another fifteen minutes, and lastly add the very stiffly whisked whites of the eggs, and bake in a buttered mould for about forty minutes in a mode- rate oven. Serve hot or cold. May be served as a sweet with a rich sabayou or liqueur-flavoured custard sauce. Eisenkuchen.—Eisenkuchen can be made in three or four different ways. This is the name given to the cake160 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. in North Germany; in the southern parts it is generally called 7lippen Jcuchen. Clarify Jib. of butter, and, when cold, rub or beat it to a cream. Have ready seven egg3 and lib. finely sifted sugar, and add them to the butter-, stirring briskly all the time, and putting in first an egg, then some sugar, and so on till both ingredients are disposed of. Keep up stirring (always in the same direc- tion) for some moments, then put in Joz., of powdered cinnamon and the finely grated rind of a lemon; lastly, work in lib. of flour, previously well sifted and dried. This being a kind of waffle, it must be baked in the ordinax-y closing waffle-irons sold for the purpose. Heat it thoroughly over a charcoal fire, place in the centre of the ii*on a tablespoonful of the mixture, shut down the iron slowly, hold it over the glowing chax-coal for a few minutes, turn it over and brown it the same on both sides; after which roll the kuchen on a round piece of wood as it is removed from the iron. Ease the cake gently off the roller, and serve or store in well-closing tins. It is a good thing to prepare the paste for all these sorts of cakes on the day before. In this case the iron need not be bxxttered. The above quantities will make about sixty cakes. Or, dissolve Jib. of crushed coarse sugar-candy in a little less than one pint of boiling water; let it cool, add nearly Jib. of clarified butter, lib. of fine flour, cinnamon and grated lemon rind as above, and one egg. Stir it long and thoi-oughly as before, and, if possible, let it stand till the next day. Have ready a moderate char- coal fire and butter the iron ; put in the same quantity of paste, and proceed in the same way. These cakes must be kept in a warm, dry room, and the tins must, above all, be well tied down or the contents wrill become flabby at once.—This method really only varies in the quantities —lib. of flour, of sugar, and of butter respectively, eight eggs, cinnamon and lemon rind as above. Prepare the butter as already shown, and add in turn eggs, sugar, andFOREIGN CAKES. flavouring, alternately with small quantities of flour. Bake in the same way. In the south the ingredients are some- what different—Rb. of flour-, Jib. of powdered sugar, the finely chopped rind of half a lemon, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of crushed cloves, l|oz. of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of rose water, one egg, and some red or white wine. Stir all these things to a soft paste, and bake as in the second recipe. Greek Easter Cakes.—To every pound of butter allow one of sugar and four of the finest dry flour. Mix the sugar and flour very thoroughly, rubbing it between the hands until the two ingredients are well incorporated ; put in the butter quite hot, knead the whole well; into this work about 2oz. to 3oz. of yeast dissolved in warm water, and some slightly salted lukewarm water (but only in sufficient quantity to moisten the dough to the right amount). When the dough has been thoroughly well kneaded, for at least three-quarters of an hour, set the pan in a warm place to rise for a couple of hours. Boll the pastry out on a floured board, then, after cutting it into strips, roll these with the palm of the hand till long, even, finger-like rolls are obtained; make these into plaits, true lover’s knots, circles, bows, &c., brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them a good colour in the oven after the bread has been taken out, or in a moderately and evenly heated kitchen oven. Hutzel Brod.—This is essentially a Bavarian dish. Parboil lib. of dried prunes and lib. of small dried pears ; stone the former and cut the latter in half ; in the liquor in which these have been boiled, parboil ten or twelve figs, cut them in dice, then put the liquor to boil over the fire till it has been reduced to nearly a quarter of a pint. When this has partly cooled, put it in a basin, add three ■dessertspoonfuls of yeast, a small lump of leaven (i.e., of •dough that has previously been prepared with yeast and put aside), and enough flour to form a dough as before. M162 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Set it to rise. Work into this some currants, chopped almonds, candied orange and lemon peel, a pinch of cinnamon, sultanas, the prunes, pears, and figs; put in a pinch of salt, two or three pounded cloves, and finely work in about lib. of flour; the quantity must be determined by the stiffness of the dough. Knead it all very thoroughly for a considerable time, set it to rise in a warm place, shape it into loaves as desired, and, after having brushed it over with water, bake it in a well-heated oven. Some people also work into this cake a teaspoonful of brandy or Kirschwasser. Kirschen Kuchen (Cherry Cake).—Soak Jib. of sliced bread in as much cold milk as it will take up, then press it out and beat into it six well-beaten eggs, 2oz. pounded almonds, 4oz. caster sugar, 4oz. creamed butter, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in 1^lb. of stoned cherries, and fill an inch deep tin (a Yorkshire pudding dish answers), well buttered, with the mixture ; dust it well on the top with sugar, powdered cinnamon, and shred almonds, and bake slowly in a moderate oven. Kougloff (German).—Warm a gill of cream and stir into it two eggs, loz. yeast, 2oz. sugar, and 4oz. or 5oz. dried and sifted flour. Let all this rise together for half an hour, then cream lOoz. fresh butter and mix it with the sponge, adding to this, then, as much fine flour as will make lib. altogether, with Joz. each of grated lemon rind and powdered cinnamon ; work this all to a smooth batter, then pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, let it rise again for fifteen minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. Kourabi (Turkish).—Heat over the fire about Jib. of butter, with out letting it become too oily (it should be removed when still in the creamy state). Mix together lib. of finest dry flour and Jib of finely-sifted sugai', and to this add the butter gra lually. The best way is to put it in by spoonfuls (using a wooden spoon), and to "work the paste with theFOREIGN CAKES. 163 same implement. When the ingredients are thoroughly well mixed, put the paste into a bowl, knead it a little with the hand, adding gradually a few tablespoonfuls of milk and the yolks of five or six eggs. Fifteen minutes ought to suffice to bring this mixture to the i-ight consistency. On pulling it apart, it should allow of being drawn to a long fine string without breaking. Put the paste on a well-floured and sugared board, roll it into the shape of a German sausage, and cut it in slices with a floured knife in a slanting direction. Lay these cakes carefully on a buttered tin, bake them in a slow oven for about half an hour. They should bake without colouring. When they are removed from the oven, brush them over with some vanilla syrup boiled to the lisse point, then roll them one by one in sifted sugar, and dry them on a biscuit netting in a warm place on the stove. They can be kept in tins for some time, and are very useful as dessert or tea cakes. In Turkey they are served with coffee, and must be very carefully and daintily made, or they will be heavy. It is chiefly the way of working them that gives them their peculiarly delicate flavour. Tailli-Kata'tf.—Make a very smooth paste, suitable for frying, with lib. of flour, a pinch of salt and one of sugar, and about 4oz. of melted butter (in Constantinople a mixture of oil and water is used instead). Put this paste into a pointed paper or forcing bag, squeeze out the paste like thick vermicelli in different lengths, according to fancy, on to a flat baking dish (they must not touch each other), and set them on a stand or a tripod over some hot embers ; when they are dry, which will be very soon, put them into a shallow biscuit mould, or a buttered fireproof dish, cover them with a little clarified butter, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn them out and serve with vanilla or orange syrup poured over. Koulitsch (Levantine).—This is the Easter bread, and is M 2164 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. generally made in rather large quantities. It is merely a loaf of leavened dough pi'epared thus: Take 61b. of dry, warm flour (or a smaller weight suitably proportioned to the rest of the ingredients), stir into this three to four pints of lukewarm milk and 2oz. of yeast previously dissolved in a little milk or water ; set this aside to rise; add the yolks of eight or ten eggs, then five whole eggs, about lib. of butter melted, a little more than this quantity of pounded sugar, half a table- spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of saffron dissolved in a little rum (about half a wineglassful), lib. of picked raisins, and nearly as much of pounded almonds. Knead the dough long and thoroughly, and set it to rise again in a warm place for two hours or rather more. Form this into one or more loaves; place on the top a cross made of rolled dough; let it set in a warm oven for a few moments ; brush it over with yolk of egg, strew it with chopped almonds, pounded zwiebaclc (or biscuit), coarsely pounded sugar and currants, and bake a light brown in a moderately heated oven. Koulourakia (Greek tea-cakes).—Mix together lib. of fine flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon or the same of grated lemon rind ; cream together 4oz. fresh butter and two large tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix these with the flour, &c., working it all to a dough with half a pint of tepid milk, being careful to knead it as little as may be; make it up in small round buns or in muffin rings, place them a little apart on a baking tin, brush them over with whole beaten egg, and bake at once in a hot oven. Lemon Jelly Cake (American).—Take half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, three eggs, three and a half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and then the beaten yolk's of the eggs. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and stir into165 FOREIGN CAKES. the other ingredients. Next sift in the flour, with which has been mixed the cream of tartar; finally, stir lightly in the whites of the eggs, beat well until quite free from lumps, and then pour in equal quantities into three shallow round tins half an inch in depth, which should be previously lined with well-buttered paper. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. When the cakes are cool, pile them one on top of another, spreading the filling, for which directions are given below, between each layer. Pour over the cake a soft icing flavoured with a few drops of lemon juice. Lemon Filling.—Take one large fresh lemon, one cup of white sugar, half a cup of water, one egg, one teaspoonful of cornflour, the same of butter. Grate the rind of the lemon and put it in a saucepan with the juice, the water, sugar, beaten egg, butter, and the corn flour rubbed smooth in a little water. Boil them all together until the mixture begins to thicken slightly. When it is cold spread it between the layers of the cake. Lady Cake. — Cream lOoz. butter with lib. of caster sugar, then mix in, in alternate spoonfuls, lib. fine sifted flour and the stiffly whisked whites of seventeen eggs. Flavour at the last with a few drops of essence of almonds, vanilla, c r what you please, and bake in a square or oblong shallow tin. This is an American favourite. Yellow Lady Cake.—Beat lib. of icing sugar to a cream with Jib. of butter, then add the yolks of eight eggs beaten smooth and thick, a cupful of milk, a small teaspoonful of powdered volatile salts dissolved in a little hot water, half a grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of essence of lemon or of orange-flower water, and as much sifted flour as will make it as thick as pound-cake batter. Beat it all together till light and creamy, then mix into it 4oz. of ground almonds, and beat it all well together again. Line some buttered tins with white paper, pour the mixture in an inch thick, and bake half an hour in a quick, or forty minutes in a moderate oven. When cold take off the paper, turn the166 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. cake upside down, and cover the side that was underneath with good royal icing made either with lemon or orange juice, and when this is nearly dry cut it in fingers 2^in. long and lin. broad. Mandelkrdnzchen (German).—Mix together about lOoz. of flour, ^lb. of fresh butter, 6oz. of sugar thoroughly well sifted, and one egg. Wl.on the ingredients are well incorporated, work the dough to the desired consistency, shape it into ■circles, and brush them over with white of egg. If desired, sprinkle them with coarsely crushed sugar, and, at any rate, with finely chopped almonds (these should be laid on rather thickly). Put them on to buttered tins (not too closely packed), and bake in a fairly quick oven. Or take the following ingredients : About lilb. of fine dry flour, lib. of butter, nearly 2oz. of yeast, not quite three-quarters of a pint of warm milk, and the yolks of two eggs. Break up the butter into small lumps, mix it gradually with the largest part of the flour, dissolve the yeast in a little milk and sugar, and pour it with the rest of the milk and the eggs into the middle of the flour. Work the whole into a dough, adding the rest of the flour as it is needed. The paste should not be allowed to become moist enough to adhere to the fingers. When all has been thoroughly well kneaded, pull off small quantities of the dough, roll it out with the hand, twist them into circles, and press them on both sides in a mixture, previously prepared, of about Goz. of chopped almonds, the whites of two eggs, some sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon. When the cakes are well covered with this mixture, lay them on buttered tins, put them in a fairly warm place to rise, after which bake them a dark yellow in a fairly brisk oven. The above quantity will make five or six dozen cakes, and they keep very well in tins. Or, try the following ingredients: About lib. of flour, the same quantity of butter, 4oz. of sugar, the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, and half a teacupful of arrack or rum (the former being preferable). Rub the hard yolks167 FOREIGN CAKES. to a paste, and mix them gradually with the other ingre- dients, till a paste of suitable consistency is obtained, but it should not be too moist; if necessary, some flour may be added after the arrack has been put in. Shape the cakes as above, and cover them with a thick layer of chopped almonds, sugar, and cinnamon, or other desired flaroux-ing. Vanilla is quite as good. Bake as before. Mandelmchl Speise (Almond Bread).—Beat the yolks of five eggs till light with Jib. of caster sugar, and add Jib. ground almonds, working thi3 all well together; now mix in lightly Jib. fine sifted flour alternately with the whites of the eggs whisked to a very stiff froth, then pour it all into a well buttered mould and bake very slowly. Manon Gdteau (French).—Roll out a round of puff paste, and line a plain tin ring with it, then pour into it some good thick pis try custard flavoured to taste (vanilla is most used), dust this with vanilla sugar or with shred candied fruit, cover it with a round of puff paste rolled out very thin, pressing the edges well together, decorate with little pastry leaves, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake. When three parts done, dust the cake with caster sugar, glaze, and finish baking in a rather cooler oven. This cake may be eaten hot or cold. Marble Cake (American).—Beat 4oz. of butter to a cream with 12oz. of sugar, then mix in a gill of water and 4<oz. of flour; when this is all well mixed, add the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then 4oz. more of flour, and, lastly, the strained juice and the grated rind of a lemon, and set it aside while you make the dark mixture. For this, cream 2oz. of butter with lib. brown sugar, add, one by one, the yolks of four eggs, until this is all very light; then add a gill of water and 6oz. of flour, and beat it all together till quite smooth, when you add 2oz. of melted chocolate, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Now add a teaspoonful of baking powder to each part, and put into a well-buttered cake tin a layer first of the white and168 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. then of the dark mixtures, and continue these layers till it is all used, when the cake must be baked in a moderate oven for forty-five to sixty-minutes, putting a piece of paper over the top if you think the oven is too sharp. Or ; white part : Whites of four eggs, Jib. white sugar, 4oz. of butter, a gill of sweet milk, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a teaspoonful of soda. For the dark : Yolks of four eggs, Jib. of brown sugar, 4oz. of molasses, 4oz. of butter, a gill of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, and mixed spice to taste. First layer should be dark, the next white, and so on till done, and bake. This is made in the same way as the first. Marzipan (German).—It is very similar to the almond icing so much appreciated on wedding cakes. Take, for instance, Jib. of almonds, twenty bitter almonds, and Jib. of sugar. Scald, peel, and dry the almonds, pound them all in a mortar, and then press them through a sieve. To avoid too much stiffness in the paste, moisten occasionally during the pounding process with a little rose or orange flower water; crush and sift the sugar, which must be very finely powdered, put it into a copper saucepan with the almonds, stand it over the fire, and stir steadily until the paste has attained the proper consistency; this will be tested by putting the tip of the finger in the contents of the sauce- pan, if the mixture does not adhere it is ready. Sprinkle some sugar on a pastry board and knead the almond paste, make it into a ball, wrap it in a sheet of clean paper, and keep it in a cool, di’y place till wanted. It will remain good for some days, and need, therefore, not all be used at once; or it can be made beforehand. The rest of the process is quite simple. Roll it out on the board (if too stiff, moisten with some white of egg), work it to any desired thickness, cut the paste into fancy shapes, and dry (rather than bake them) in a moderate oven. They can also be covered with fruit, or merely be sprinkled with sugar.169 FOREIGN CAKES. Merveilles.-—Take £lb. of fine sifted flour, three whole and very fresh eggs, a pinch of salt, a very small piece of butter, and one and a half spoonfuls of eau de vie. Mix all these to a rather stiff dough, which must be well worked to make it light. Allow it then to rest for ten minutes, being careful to cover it with a slightly damp napkin, so that the paste may not dry up Make this latter up into little balls, and then roll these out as thinly as possible, cut them out with a pastry cutter into an oval shape, running the cutter three times right across the length, without, however, cutting it through at either end, and lay each as done on a cloth. Have ready some very hot frying fat, and place the merveilles one by oare in it, turning them over all the time with a skimmer, and lift them out the moment they are nicely but not too strongly coloured. They should puff out almost as soon as they are in the fat. Drain them very carefully on a paper, and dish them on a napkin, dusting them liberally with powdered sugar. To be eaten hot or cold. If properly made they will not spot the napkin in the least. Millefeuilles, Gateau (also known as Gateau Milfras).— From some good puff-paste, not too thinly rolled out, cut some rounds, the first the size of a plate, the rest decreasing in size; place these separately on papered baking tins and bake till lightly coloured and cooked. Now lift out the tins, lay white paper over the rounds, and a lightly weighted iron baking sheet on this and leave till cpiite cold, when you spread each round with any icing to taste, arranging each on top of the other till you have built them up into a kind of pyramid, put a glace fruit on the apex, and serve when firm. If preferred the rounds may be cut of equal size, and all but the top one spread with a sheet of bavaroise, jelly, Vienna icing, or any filling to taste ; they are then built up as before, the whole cake being iced with any icing you please, and garnished to taste with fruit, nuts, and rosettes of pink and white Vienna icing.170 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Minnehaha Cake (American).—Cream 4oz. of butter with 12oz. caster sugar, then mix in, in alternate spoonfuls, ^lb. of Eureka flour and the stiffly-whipped whites of six eggs; make it into a light dough with a gill of new milk, and bake in layer tins. When cooked, spread one layer with filling, press the other cake lightly on the top of it, and brush them over with a little sugar syrup into which you have stirred some shredded and blanched nuts. For the filling, boil to a candy £lb. of caster sugar and three tablespoonfuls of water, then mix it with ooz. or 6oz. finely chopped hazel nuts (or almonds) and the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fain de bicre (Swiss).—Put into a pan about lib. of flour, work into this one tablespoonful of brewer’s yeast, previously stirred in a tumblerful of lukewarm milk, one teaspoonful of salt, three eggs, a good ^lb. of butter, 2oz. of currants, loz. of sugar, and 2oz. of coarsely chopped almonds. Knead this dough till all the ingredients are thoroughly well mixed, and stand it in a -warm place to rise. The pan should be covered with a small blanket. When the dough has risen work it again diligently till bubbles appear, and it detaches itself from the sides of the pan ; butter a mould carefully, fill it half full of the dough, and set it to rise till within half an inch of the edge, then put it into an evenly heated oven to bake for at least an hour. When the dough has been put into the mould the latter should be moved about very carefully, as its contents would sink if they were shaken, and would not rise again. The very finest flour should be used for this sort of cake. —Tourtelettes au levain ; Dissolve a teaspoonful of brewer’s yeast in a little warm cream, mix Jib- of butter with a pinch of salt, six eggs, and a tumblerful of cream ; into this work some flour, then add the yeast, and knead in more flour until the paste is of a sufficient consistency to break into small lumps; let it stand a little while only to rise; butter some small moulds, fill them with the paste nearly171 FOREIGN CAKES. up to the edge, brush them over with egg, and bake them in a hot oven. Pate & Poupelin, cfc. (French).—Put 4oz. of butter in a stewpan, together with nearly half a pint of water, and add a pinch of salt. When it boils stir in 4oz. of sifted Vienna flour and the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, and work over the fire until the flour is cooked. The pate must be very stiff, and the sides of the pan must become quite clean before it is taken off the fire. Let it cool a little, then work in a whole egg and the yolk of one egg; beat well for a few minutes, and use when cold.—A la Turque : Sift Jib. of flour into a basin, rub in lightly 4oz. of butter. Blanch, peel, and chop finely 4oz. of sweet almonds, weigh 6oz. of caster sugar, and add these to the flour and butter. Sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of powdered saffron and a pinch of salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, beat up an egg, and work this in until a smooth paste is obtained. A little water may be added if found too stiff.—A la Duchesse : But half a pint of cream, loz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of butter, one teaspoonful of orange-flower water, and a pinch of salt in a stewpan. Let it come to the boil, and stir in 5oz. of best flour, sifted. Work it over the fire for a few minutes, then add a well-beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, and use when cooled.—d’Amandes; Pound Jib. of blanched almonds in a mortar. When quite fine pass through a sieve, return to the mortar, and add Jib. of icing sugar. Mix well, and moisten with the juice of half a lemon and a dessertspoonful of water. Put all in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until warm; then turn out, and use when cold.—Another Way ; Put |lb. of lump sugar and half a gill of water into a copper sugar boiler, add three drops of essence of almond, and allow it to dissolve. Place it on the fire and boil for a few minutes (“ blow ” degree), then add 6oz. of ground almonds and a pinch of powdered saffron, stir well, and work in the yolk of an egg. Turn out on to a marble slab and work to a smooth paste.172 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Pfann Kuchen {Austrian).—Roll out some brioche paste- one-sixth of an inch thick, stamjTit out in rounds 3in. across* and spread on half of them some rich apricot marmalade* leaving a margin clear all round. Cover these rounds with the plain ones, pressing the moistened edges well together. Now flour a clean cloth, and set the cakelets on this, cover them lightly, and leave them in a warm place to rise for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then fry a light golden brown in butter, lift them out with a skimmer, drain, then drop- them one at a time in hot rum-flavoured syrup. Lift out, and serve very hot. Radonen Kuchen.—Warm half a pint of milk, and mix into- it Joz. of yeast. Put lib. of flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, and pour the yeast and milk into this, working it well into the flour, but keeping a dry ring of the> latter all round, then cover the basin, and leave this to rise. Meanwhile beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work into it- five whole eggs, beating the mixture for fully twenty minutes ; now mix in Jib. of well washed and dried currants,, a few sultanas, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Work this all to a smooth dough with the flour, &c., butter a mould, strew it well with chopped almonds, flour, and caster sugar, pour in the mixture, and bake half an hour in a hot oven. hheinischer Bund.—-For this dish, which is a great favourite in many parts of Germany, the cook must be brisk over her work, as there should be no delay in the course of the preparations. Have ready to hand two tablespoonfuls of cornflour mixed with a little cold water (just enough to moisten it), the yolks of ten eggs, ^lb. of finely sifted sugar, the grated peel and the juice of one lemon, a sherry glassful of arrack or maraschino, and |lb. of macaroons with the wafers carefully scraped off. Bring the contents of one bottle of stillhock to a boil; as soon as it boils stir into it (over the fire) the cornfloui', the eggs, sugar, peel, and lemon juice. When the mixture becomes rather thick, like a custard, put in the maraschino. Pour this preparation into a deep dishFOREIGN CAKES. 173 (in which it will also be sent to table), lay the macaroons lightly over the top, and stand it carefully in a very cold place. Meantime beat to a stiff froth the whites of ten eggs, adding to the same about fib. of sifted sugar. Put the froth and the macaroons over the custard when quite cold, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Again stand in a cool place, and serve when quite cold. It may also be iced if desired. Savarin.—This is made in the same way as the baba, only omitting the spice and saffron, and using 2oz. of shred almonds instead of tho muscatels. In all these cakes it is well to remember that the eggs should be worked in two or three at a time, beating the paste well till it leaves the sides of the pan clear each time. Butter the mould, strewing it well with sugar and chopped almonds, and bake the cake for about an hour in a moderate oven. When baked, turn it out and let it cool off for fifteen minutes or so before dishing it, or pouring over it the syrup or liqueur that abroad always accompanies this cake. A few drops of essence of almonds are an addition, if added with the other ingredients. Abroad this cake, like the glace cake, the baba, &e., is mostly used as a sweet entremets, and is there served with a rich sauce, or syrup, poured x’ound it, and a garnish of fruit in syrup, or marinaded with liqueur, and sometimes, but more rarely, whipped and flavoured cream. Therefore, if wanted for use English fashion, dry, it would be well to add the liqueur as a flavouring as in the baba, making the syrup poured over the cake at the last stiff enough to form a kind of brittle glaze. Schnee Kuchen.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work into it carefully lib. of potato flour and loz. caster sugar. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs till the former are light and the latter a stiff froth, work in the yolks into the mixture and then the whites, beating it all well, but lightly, for twenty minutes. Bake slowly. The cake should be snow-white, whence its name, and quite crisp.174 BREAD. CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Spice Cake.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and stir it into a full gill of molasses, then add to this half a pint thick sour cream, about 6oz. brown sugar, and rather less than lib. of flour ; beat it all well together, then add a table- spoonful each of allspice and powdered cinnamon, and lib. of stoned, minced, and floured raisins. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. (American.) Strenzel Kuchen.—Make a sponge as for bread with ljlb. of flour, 2oz. yeast, half a pint lukewarm milk, and 4oz. each of sugar and butter. Let this rise for twenty minutes, then knead well, roll it out fairly thinly on a buttered baking sheet, prick it all over, brush it over with two-thirds of an ounce of liquefied butter, cover the top with “ strenzel,” again let it rise, and bake for half an hour in a hot oven. For the “ strenzel,” mix together rather more than 5£oz. flour, 3^oz. sugar, and rub this into 31oz. of softened butter till like crumbs. Or, make a sponge with Jib. flour, not quite 3joz. yeast, and enough tepid milk to mix it, and let it rise. Meanwhile work to a stiff dough 1 lib. flour, four to six eggs, 5oz. to 6oz. sugar, a pinch each of salt and mace, the grated rind of a lemon, and tepid milk to mix. Now beat into this Jib. of butter, then the sponge, when well risen, kneading it well; roll out thinly on a floured baking sheet, and let it rise ; then brush with liquid butter, and strew it evenly and thickly with “ strenzel,” made thus : Work together 2loz. each of flour, butter, and sugar, and a teaspoonful ground cinnamon : dust with equal parts dry flour and sugar, chop into pea or dice shapes with a knife, and use. Tote—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 12oz. of caster sugar till light, then stir in Jib. grated chocolate, fib. ground almonds, Jib. finely shred citron peel, half a tea- spoonful each of cinnamon and cloves pounded fine, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cardamoms, half a gill of brandy, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Stir this all wellFOREIGN CAKES. 175 together. Now moisten rather less than lib. of dried and browned breadcrumbs with a little white wine ; add this to the former mixture, and stir in at the last the whites of the eggs beaten to the stiffest possible froth. Bake slowly for an hour and a half, and, when cold, ice with either royal or chocolate icing. (This is an American recipe.) Vacherin au Chocolat.—'The sweets which go by the name of vacherins are made very much in the same way, and merely vary in their flavouring. Take about Goz. of blanched almonds, Jib. of pounded sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and the whites of two or three eggs. Pound the almonds thoroughly, moistening them with the whites of eggs; add the sugar and the grated rind of lemon. Put this paste into a basin; if necessary, add another white of egg, to avoid too much stiffness, for the paste should be moist enough to be spread with a spoon in a fairly thick layer on a well-buttered or floured tin. Bake this in a moderate oven till it is of a light brown colour; cut the paste into the required width, and, whilst still hot, put it round the inside of a mould or timbale, joining the two ends by pressing them well together. Stand it aside to get cold. In the meantime, prepare a whipped chocolate or otherwise flavoured cream. Remove the paste ring from the mould, and fasten it on to a plain sheet of ordinary or almond paste, large enough to cover the dish on which the vacherin is to be served. Fill this with alternate layers of whipped cream and crushed meringue paste, heaping it well above the side of the case ; serve cold. Vera Cruz, Gateau.—Cream together Goz. each of butter nnd caster sugar, then work in one by one the yolks of twelve eggs, 3oz. finely shred preserved or candied fruit, a few drops of essence of vanilla, a tablespoonful each of rum and kirschwasser, and lastly the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs alternately with 6oz. creme de riz (very fine ground rice). Mix this all well together, pour it into a well buttered Solferino mould, and bake in a moderate oven. A176 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Solferino mould is a large and rather decorated border mould, somewhat like those used for savarin cakes. Waffeln.—These are also known in France as gauffres, and in America as waffles. They are made in much the same way; a light batter is prepared, and this is then poured into the well-buttered gauffre tongs or waffle irons, as the utensil is called (this instrument can be bought of any good ironmonger); its contents being then cooked over a clear fire, and when crisp and delicately coloured turned out and served dusted with powdered or vanilla sugar. For the French gauffres, put into a basin fib. each of fresh butter (warmed and liquefied), caster sugar, and sifted and warmed flour, a good grate of lemon peel, and three spoonfuls of orangeflower water, and work this all to a smooth batter with sufficient new milk to produce a thin mixture that will flow easily from the spoon; then let this rest for a couple of hours. Now heat your gauffre tongs over a sharp, clear fire (a charcoal one is best), and when hot butter them well, two-thirds fill with the batter, and set them over the fire, cooking the batter in the closed iron for two or three minutes on each side. As soon as the gauffre is nicely coloured on both sides and crisp, slip it out of the iron and serve at once, dusted with sugar, plain or flavoured. A more delicate kind is made by using single «ream instead of milk, or eggs (either the yolks or the stiffly whisked whites), moistening the batter with liqueur, to taste. American waffles differ from French gauffres (when they do differ) by a little less delicacy: for instance (teste that authority, Mrs Mary Ronald), lard may be used instead of butter, and the irons may be greased with pork fat. German waffles are much more substantial, as the following will show ; Cream Jib. of fresh butter and work into it gradually about 12oz. of flour alternately with seven eggs, three-quarters of a pint of tepid milk, ljoz. fresh yeast (dissolved in a very little warm milk), and any spice or flavouring to taste. Now knead this dough till it blisters.177 FOREIGN CAKES. adding half a gill of rum or arrack, and, after kneading it very thoroughly, cover the pan containing the dough and let it rise in a warm place for three to four hours; then put the dough into the irons to finish as before. See also Eisenkuchen, previously given. Wiener-Torte.—Take ten eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour respectively, beat the eggs and butter to a cream, and afterwards beat in the sugar; to this add the flour, with a little grated nutmeg, some cinnamon, and the grated rind of a lemon; mix all thoroughly well together, spread the paste thus obtained on a sheet of buttered paper or on a buttered tin, to the thickness of half an inch, sur- round this with strong paper, which may be sewn or other- wise fixed for the time being, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Remove the paper when the tart is cold, spread stewed fruit all over the top (or jam if more con- venient), and ice it in the ordinary way. Of course, the quantities can be increased according to requirements, but most of these Viennese cakes are rather extravagant in the use of butter and eggs. It can be made in another way : Mix Jib. of butter with three whole eggs, the yolks of three more, one and a half teaspoonfuls of brewer’s yeast, and Jib. of fine flour together, and add enough milk to make it into a good dough. Stand it in a warm place to rise, knead it well, roll it out fairly thin, spread it on a buttered tin ; over this put a layer of sultanas previously thoroughly washed and picked, and slightly stewed in wine and sugar ; over these put some strips of pastry, lay them cross wise over the fruit, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake till crisp. In this manner all sorts of fruit besides sultanas can be used as they come into season, as long as they have been stewed in some wine, flavoured with spices, grated lemon rind, &c. Zuckerbrod.—The manufacture of Zuckerbrod is difficult to explain, especially to those not familiar with the foreign rolls known as Wecken, resembling a thick plait more than N178 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. anything else. But it is quite easy to make. Take four tablespoonfuls of yeast and flour together, each one well heaped, and with nearly three-quarters of a pint of lukewarm milk work it into a paste, and let it rise. Meantime, beat Jib. of fresh butter to a froth, stir in six eggs, 2oz. respec- tively of finely-chopped orange and lemon peel, the grated rind of half a lemon, Jib. caster sugar, salt to taste, and a little aniseed if desired. Put in the risen dough, work it together, and add as much flour as will be required to make a firm dough, such as is used for rolls, fine bread, &c. After having made the dough thoroughly smooth as above, pull it about and roll it out finger thick, certainly not thinner; have ready a long well-buttered tin, cut out rounds of dough with a small tumbler till the whole is disposed of (a few should be smaller than the rest and some a trifle larger) ; now with these rounds (beginning with the largest) form a thick bx-ead plait. This is done by standing the rounds on the tin, bent nearly double, and placed edges downwards. Proceed in the same way down the length of the tin, keeping the pieces of dough close together, and finishing off with the smallest ones; support it on each side if necessary with something heavy to keep it together, until the pieces have adhei’ed sufficiently to stand alone. Remove the weight befoi-e baking, and brush the cake with yolk of egg; sprinkle it with sugar, make a deep furrow down the middle length- wise with the handle of a spoon, to accentuate the plaited appearance, and bake quickly in a hot oven. This could also be made with currants or sultanas. Zwieback.—This word, as understood abroad, comprises a very large variety of cakes and biscuits prepared from more or less delicate ingredients. Here are some recipes for more uncommon kinds: Take 31b. of well-dried floui’, work into it a heaped tablespoonful of yeast previously dissolved in a little warm watei', and half a pint of fresh milk. When the paste is formed set it in a basin, cover it up, and let it rise. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of thick cream.FOREIGN CAKES. 179 in this stir one egg and a small piece of butter, and work it into the dough until it detaches itself from the sides of the pan ; continue the kneading by adding Rb. of caster sugar, the same quantity of chopped almonds, some citron and orange candied peel, and aniseed or cinnamon to taste, if desired. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated into the dough, roll and fold it on a floured board, and work it into one smooth lump ; pull enough of this off to form a long, low roll, and use all the dough up in the same way ; put these rolls on a buttered tin, and bake a golden brown. These can either be eaten when they are cold enough to be pleasant to the taste, or they can be put aside till the next day, when they may be cut into slices, sprinkled with caster sugar, and toasted or roasted till quite crisp. They must not be made in large quantities, as they become leathery rather soon, and they must in any case be kept in well-closing tins. Or, prepare a small quantity of dough “ sponge ” as above ; beat to a froth lib. of butter and a tablespoonful of lard, stir into this three eggs, some caster sugar, and a little aniseed; work this into a suitable dough with the required quantity of flour, add it to the risen lump, knead it thoroughly, moistening it with milk to bring or reduce it to the required stiffness, and make into rolls as before ; cut them into slices at once, brush them with yolk of egg, and bake them crisp; these should be eaten whilst fresh. Zwieback.—Make a dough with 3lb. of fine flour, a pint of milk, and some yeast. When it is risen work into it ^lb. of butter, six whole eggs, and a little finely grated lemon peel; shape it into a long roll, let it rise again, then bake it a nice even light brown. When cooled, after baking, slice it down not too thinly, and bake these slices till crisp, and of a delicate golden brown. These are very good as they are, but can be made into very dainty five o’clock tea cakes, if iced over with any nice icing, such as liqueur glace, or coffee or chocolate icing. N 2180 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Zwiebaclc, Almond.—Make a paste with fib. of flour, lib. of butter, five whole eggs, and a little cinnamon to taste; work the paste till it is quite smooth, but handle it very lightly ; have x-eady a quantity of blanched, peeled, and chopped almonds; roll out the paste, cut it into fingers or fancy shapes, roll them in the chopped almonds so that they are well covered with the pieces, and bake in a quick oven. It is manifestly impossible, in a book of this size, to give anything like an exhaustive catalogue of foi-eign cakes (even granting that the list of what we should call cakes is a relatively slioi't one), but the above may serve as examples which have met with appi-oval in the columns of the Queen. As a rule, cakes abroad are either in the nature of small cakes or biscuits, or else they are what in this counti-y are specially termed gddeaux, and seem to us better fitted for the sweet course, for which, indeed, they ai'e mostly used.CHAPTER VII. CAKE DECORATION, Ac. Directions for making various sorts of icings have already been given, in a previous chapter, but in these days when cakes (and indeed most kinds of eatables) have to look, as well as taste well, a few words may be said on the actual process of icing and further decoration of cakes, petits fours, &c. A very common form of icing for tartlets, little pies, and pastry sandwiches, is known as “ water icing.” For this put a short gill of water into a basin, and add to this the unwhisked whites of two eggs (if they were whisked before adding them to the water, they would not mix properly, but would remain on the surface of the water in a light froth); whisk the water and egg whites well together, then with a brush wash the pastry over lightly with this froth, after which dredge it with caster sugar, sprinkle a little more of the froth over the pastry and bake. This sounds, and is, very easy to do, but requires attention to detail to ensure success. For instance, be careful only to put on enough of the froth at first to ensure the sugar sticking, for if more is laid on it will roll off and spoil the surface of the pastry; then see that your coating of caster sugar is a generously thick one, for if put on too thin, the heat of the oven will melt it, and make the paste when cooked, look as if it were varnished. So measure your sugar by the resultBREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 182 you wish to produce. If properly done the tartlets will, when ready, look as if thickly frosted with rime. Cooks differ as to whether this icing should be applied before or after baking. Roughly speaking, if the pastry to be iced is small and the oven moderate, these may be iced before baking. But with a hot oven, or with large tarts or pies, it is best to three parts cook them before icing. When iced first, attention must be paid to the baking, for the sugar is very apt to catch and brown, in which case its appearance is spoilt; on the other hand if you take the tarts out to ice them before the paste is fully set, bringing them into the cooler air often makes them fall and sadden. Cakes, however, and suchlike things are iced on a dif- ferent plan. It is comparatively easy, with a little care, to ice a cake plainly, i.e., to cover it all over with any icing to taste. The difficulty comes in when ambition prompts one to garnish this smooth surface with designs and orna- ments in other kinds and coloured icings. Still, this difficulty is not insuperable. To begin, however, with the plain surface icing. First see that your cake is steady. If you are addic'ed to cake making you will find it a comfort to invest in a cake-drum as it is called, i.e., a block of smooth wood, mounted on a swivel fastened securely to a firm base, on which, when the cake is placed, it can be turned round and round, as the exigencies of icing require. These cake-drums can be procured from any maker of con- fectionery utensils. Failing this, however, cake icing may be very satisfactorily managed by mounting the cake on a plain round cake, or Charlotte mould turned wrong side up, being careful to choose a mould somewhat smaller than the cake you intend to ice, so as to allow the knife, used in applying the icing, to go freely round the cake. Having fixed yoiir cake to your mind, pile on the top of it as much of the icing as you judge sufficient to cover the top, or the sides as well; then, with a palette knife long183 CAKE DECORATION, Ac. enough to go across the cake at its widest, gently smooth this icing firmly and evenly across the cake in one direction, neither liftiug nor turning the knife nor scraping the cake ; when the top is evenly and smoothly covered, draw the knife off with one steady sweep. If, as usually happens with beginners, on finishing the top you find the surface is rather rough and ridgy, lift the cake and knock it gently against the table ; this will settle the icing, and fill up the Fig. 2. furi’ows which at first the knife is sure to leave. The two accompanying illustrations. Figs. 1 and 2, will explain this process better than much written explanation, besides showing the use of the cake-drum. If the cake is only to be iced on top it can now be set aside to dry. If, however, you wish the sides to be iced, let the icing run down from the top as you smooth the latter, then roughly pass the knife round the sides of the cake to ensure all parts being well184 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. covered (as in Fig. 3), finishing it by passing the knife carefully round it with an even, circular sweep (never lifting the knife till the whole circle is made, or it will leave a ridge), to secure a nice smooth surface. The knife must not be laid flat on the cake, but held slantingly, the back of the knife against the cake, and the blade at an angle of 45°, so as to carry off the surplus sugar with the sweep of the knife as you finish the circle. Let it stand till firm, in a dry place, if to be left as it is; but if to be ornamented with bonbons, glace, fruits, &c., put these on Fig. 3. as the icing begins to stiffen, arranging them in wreaths and sprays, &c., as you please. Ordinary cakes are iced directly on to the cake, but in many instances a layer of almond icing is placed on the cake, the latter being then iced as above, when this first almond icing is firm. (The recipe for this has been given.) When this paste is made (it should be fairly firm), roll it out with the rolling pin to the size and shape of the cake, lay it on the cake (which should have been trimmed to make it flat and smooth), and again roll it with the rolling pin to level it nicely. If you put almond icing round the sides, roll theseCAKE DECORATION, &c. 185 also, as this flattens out all rough edges and surface. The cake should be allowed to dry a few hours before the first icing is placed over the almond icing. The firmer the almond icing the less time will it take to dry. Having thoroughly mastered the art of icing a cake smoothly and evenly, the next step is to “ pipe ” it, as this style of decoration is called, from the bags and pipes used to apply the icing. These forcing bags and pipes can be bought very cheaply in all sizes and patterns, but, failing these, paper bags are often used by skilled confectioners for the purpose. For these, good, strong (preferably grease proof) rig. 4. paper is essential, indeed, a special kind is sold for the purpose. Cut this paper into squares, cutting these again across diagonally into two even-sized triangles. Now fold each of these triangles to a point, as grocers fold the little paper cones they use for sugar. Put the icing into this bag, folding down the top to cover and keep in the sugar, and with a pair of scissors clip off this point of the cone to the size you wish your thread to be. To use the pipe, either ho!d it as in the illustration (Fig. 4) for making dots, stars, &c., or hold it like a pencil when you wish actually to draw scrolls and patterns, which, however.186 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. should not be attempted till you have mastered the arts of dot and star making, especially the trick of lifting off the pipe cleanly from the design without leaving a trail behind, like the tail of a comet. This is accomplished by giving the pipe a gentle and dexterous but firm twist as you lift it. As a matter of fact the worker soon learns which is the most convenient method of holding the pipe. The great point is to practice, for with piping it is essen- tially a case of practice making perfect. It is a sort of freehand di'awing, for which few original sketches can be made, and no blunders erased. As I’oyal or other icing vised for this purpose is a somewhat expensive material to waste ad lib. for practising purposes, make the following mixture: Beat some good firm lard to a cream, working into it a very little flour to stiffen it, then practice on a clean cake tin turned upside down till you acquire some firmness and precision in handling your tools. The advantage of this is that the lard can easily be scraped off and used over and over again. Failing a cake tin, a common slate or the back of a japanned tray makes a capital drawing board. Very intricate decoration is seldom, if ever, required for household cakes, so for all ordinary purposes the above directions are ample, espe- cially if well practised. A word or two may be said con- cerning icings. Recipes for various kinds have been given, and may be relied on ; but sometimes it is not always easy to procure eggs (for royal icing the sugar must be of the finest cane sort, whilst the eggs need to be of the freshest, for the fresher they are the stronger are the whites). In this case try the following mixture : Slowly dissolve §oz. of best gelatine or isinglass in a gill of water, and when the former is perfectly melted add either four drops of acetic acid, or as much tartaric acid as will lie on a sixpence in a layer as thick as the coin ; then beat in about lib. of best cane icing sugar till it forms a paste that will stand up stiffly in points (this will take about ten minutes), then187 CAKE DECORATION, Ac. use. The confectioner’s test of this glace, as it is techni- cally called, is to lift a little on the end of the wooden spoon or spatula used in beating it, and if on reversing the spoon the icing will stand up firmly without any sign of falling it is ready for use. If the icing is to be coloured, the colouring should be added when the paste is thick; whilst if it is to be used white, a drop or two of liquid blue, or a tiny dust of powder blue, will improve the colour wonderfully. Well-made rich cakes keep well, and, indeed, improve by keeping, but at the same time cooks are often troubled by a tendency to discolouration in the icing. The moisture of the inside of the cake sets up a sort of chemical action (a kind of ferment, in fact) on which the goodness and mellow- ness of the cake depends in great measure, and any attempt to stop this ferment, or ripening, by chemical means is pretty safe to involve the loss, or at any rate a partial loss, of aroma and flavour in the cake, but it is occasionally disastrous to the appearance of the icing. However, if a cake is to be stored, the icing should be applied as soon as possible after the cake is really cold, before the outer air has time to set up this fermentation very strongly. For this reason many confectioners cover the sides, as well as the top, of their richer cakes (such as bride or birthday cakes), with a thick coating of almond icing, as this delays the contact of the fruit juices in the cake with the sugar icing, and the consequent discolouration of the latter. Others, again, make a tasteless solution of gum or gelatine, in either alcohol or lemon juice, and brush the cake over with this before icing it, letting it dry thoroughly before finishing it off with almond and other icings. It should be remembered that all rich cakes, if yeast- made, are better and more mellow if stored for some time ; in some cases, such as bride and birthday cakes, this storage may last for months without inconvenience. Indeed, a well-known firm of cake bakers never consider188 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. such cakes fit to eat till they have been seasoned thus. Cakes, however, made with baking powder dry too quickly to make storage in their case advisable. At the risk of repetition, it cannot be too strongly impressed on the amateur confectioner that real success depends in the very greatest degree on the quality and freshness of the materials used, and, though such excel- lence may apparently add to the expense in the beginning, it is really the truest economy in the end. The eggs used should be of the freshest, and should always be broken separately before adding them to the mixture to avoid the least risk of one being unsatisfactory, and so spoiling the batch. Even preserved eggs are to be avoided in delicate pastry-baking, as they are apt to acquire a strawey taste, which is destructive to the flavour of delicate cakes. There is a knack in egg-beating, which, however, is speedily acquired. To whip the whites break the eggs carefully into a bowl, being very particular to remove the “ speck,” and not to allow the smallest drop of yolk to get in ; then whisk steadily with a wire whisk or a Dover egg-beater (the latter takes the least time) till they are in a dry stiff froth. As soon as the whites have reached the proper stiffness stop beating at once (or they will become curdled and broken- looking, and will make anything to which they are added close and heavy) ; you will know when this stage is reached, as the froth will stand up in points as the whisk is drawn out, or if, as many cooks do, you use a knife for whisking, stop beating directly you can cut the mixture cleanly with the knife. At this stage, if the froth is to be used for meringue, add in the caster sugar very lightly, rather folding than beating it in. Always whisk eggs in a cool place, for the colder and fresher the eggs the quicker will they beat to a stiff froth. To beat the yolks, put them into a basin and whip them with a fork or a whisk till the yolks become quite light, will drop clean from the whisk without strings, and are of a lemon colour. This is the time to add in the189 CAKE DECORATION, &c. sugar, and the two should be stirred together till the mixture becomes light and creamy. Remember when adding eggs to a cake mixture only to add them two or three at a time, or they will curdle and suddenly thin the mixture. Each lot should be well mixed in before adding the next. As the freshness of eggs is of such importance, it is well to give a method of testing them: I. Encircle the e™ with your finger and thumb, and then hold it up to the light ; if the egg is clear and transparent it is all right, but if cloudy or dark in patches it is, to say the least, suspicious ; any way, with bought eggs especially, always break each separately into a basin before mixing it with the rest of the materials. II. Dissolve 2oz. kitchen salt in a pint of warm water in a basin, and when this solution is cold put in the eggs to be tested. A new laid egg will sink at once to the bottom and stay there ; if a day or two old it will sink and then rise a little off the bottom; if three days old it will float half way between the bottom and the surface ; getting nearer and nearer to the surface the staler it is, till what is called the “ shop egg ” will project right out of the water. The butter should be of the best quality, fresh if possible; or if salt must be used, wash and work it well in several waters, finally pressing it in a cloth to extract every drop of moisture. Unless butter is hard and cold it will oil, and make whatever it is mixed with heavy. Butter should always be kept in a cool, not to say a cold, place ; abroad the cellar is always chosen for its storage. In summer, when it is difficult to keep it firm, take a good lump of ice and after well washing it put it in a pan full of cold water, and put in the butter broken up fairly small, watch it, for the very moment the butter begins to “ ice ” it must be well worked in the icy cold water, then care- fully wiped with a clean cloth, and used at once. In the country where ice is not always attainable, if there is a190 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. well, put the butter in a dish or basin, place this in an empty pail, cover it with a piece of muslin to keep out dust, &c., and lower the pail into the water, being careful however, that the latter does not reach anywhere near the top of the pail. In the country abroad all butter is stored thus in the summer. All fruit used in cake-making should be of best quality and carefully picked over, cleansed, and stalked. Currants should be thoroughly washed, and then slowly dried. Nothing is more disagreeable than, when eating cake, to come across currant stalks, or raisin stones. Candied peel must be sliced very thinly before chopping, or it will be most indigestible. Almonds are blanched by dropping them, when shelled, into boiling water in which they are left till on pi’essing them between your finger and thumb they will slip out of the outer skins. (Pistachios are treated in the same way.) To preserve their whiteness, as you free the almonds from their skins, drop them into a basin of v^ry cold water, leave them in this for an hour, then dry them first in a cloth, and then in the oven, being careful they do not colour. When almonds have been blanched thus they may be chopped or shred, and placed in a plate with a few drops of any colouring to taste, and shaken and rolled in this till they are evenly coloured all over, then let them dry, and store in a dry place. Or, if preferred, when chopped, they may be baked a golden brown, then thickly dusted with sugar and returned to the oven to set. Need- less to say, filberts, pistachios, pignole, walnuts, Ac., may all be treated thus. Lastly, it may interest many amateur cooks to know that, for small cakes at all events, an oven is not an absolute necessity. This will seem strange to the average conven- tional British housewife, but it is a fact nevertheless that, given an untinned wrought iron pan, with a sheet-iron lid an inch or two larger in diameter than the pan, a French woman can, and does, produce even desirable sponge cakesCAKE DECORATION, &c. 191 from such a rough and ready oven. The method is as follows: Put a small pastry rack (a “ rapid steamer ” rack would do admirably) into the pan which you intend using (which must he kept entirely for baking pastry), lay two or more sheets of buttered paper on this rack and set the cake or cakes on this, being careful that if several are baked at once they do not touch each other at any point. Set the pan on a trivet over, but not on, a strong, steady, clear fire, and place a row of hot coal all round the edge of the lid; placed thus the hot coals diffuse a more even and less scorching heat than if piled on tliecenti’e of the lid. Watch the cake, and if the top shows signs of catching cover it with a buttered paper and remove enough of the top coals to moderate the heat. The baking must be watched to keep the heat, which should be moderate rather than fierce, even and steady, either taking off or adding to the live coal on the lid. The pan should be turned from time to time to insure the cake being evenly coloured and cooked. Have the pan and its lid well heated for about a quarter of an hour before putting in the cake. Do not try to cook too many pieces at once, for, although kept scrupulously separate, they interfere with their respective cooking, and the baking will not not then be quite successful. Experience and practice will soon teach the cook to overcome any little difficulties, and will enable her to tell both the heat and the time required very fairly accurately. For instance, for small cakes and biscuits a very gentle and even heat is required, and when the lid is lifted to watch the baking it must be replaced as quickly as possible, or the cakes will drop. It is easy to cook a fairly large cake in this way if baked in two parts, which are when ready fixed together with a little royal icing. Meat and fish pies can also be baked in this way, which is indeed the way the Russian fish pasties (Coulibiacs) are mostly baked. But in this case measures must be taken to keep up the fire, as naturally such things take longer to cook than small pastry and192 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. cakes. Foreign cooks bake in this way on their small char- coal hot plates, and indeed prefer these to the ordinary fire or range. The pan with its contents is placed on the trivet over the opening of the hot plate, a second opening being also kept up to the same heat to allow either the top or bottom heat being replenished as required. Foreign cooks also fix wires or strings to the small rack placed in the pan to allow of its being lowered down into the pan with the cake on it and lifted out again when the baking is con- cluded. It is wonderful what may be accomplished by homely and makeshift utensils, and so many readers of the Queen wander off into out of the way parts that it has seemed use- ful to give hints for the utilisation of such simple processes where better means may not be had, for however far one may stray from home, one seldom cares to say good-bye to all one’s home ways and tastes. But though such hints have been given for the amateur cook’s benefit, it must be distinctly impressed on mistresses living in the centre of civilisation and within reach of all the latter’s resources, that they have no right to expect their cooks to work only with such makeshifts. What may be willingly done once or even twice in a way when necessity arises, becomes an exasperation when rendered a daily necessity by the thoughtlessness or the economy (?) of the mistress. Especially is this the case when the cook is short-handed. French mistresses are wiser, and grudge neither materials nor utensils, sagely observing, Qui veut la Jin veut les moyens, and it is to this fact that the superiority of the foreign bonne d tout faire over her British equivalent, “ the general,” is due.INDEX. Adulteration, 4, 6 African shoots, 128 Almond paste, 142 Alum, 4, 7 Ammonia (voil or saleratus), 10 Apfel kuchen, 151 Apostel kuchen, 151 Baking at home, 7, 3, 10 Powder, 5, 6, 15, 77 Utensils, 8 Bannocks, 45 Aberdeen, 46 Cornflour, 46 Fried, 46 Wholemeal, 54 Baps, 47 Biscuits, 119 Abernethy, 49 Bath Oliver, 48 Breakfast, 47 Butter, 47 Captain’s, 48 Cat’s tongues, 119 Charcoal, 119 Chestnut, 119 Chocolate, 120 Biscuits (Continued)— Cracker, 49 Cracknell, 49 Cream, 120 Digestive, 121 Fenloe, 121 Filbert, 121 Grandmother’s, 121 Milk, 122 Oatmeal, 50, 122. Orange, 122 Plain, 122 Vanilla, 123 Vegetarian, 12$ Water, 50, 123 Yarmouth, 123 Bread, 1-42 Adirondack, 24 Aerated, 25 Baking powder, 25 Berinaline, 3 Black, 26 Bran, 3,26 Brawn breach, 26 Brown, 2, 26 „ American, 2 £ Boston, 27 o194 INDEX. Bread (Continued)— Cako, 27 Coarse, 28 Coffee, 28 Corn (Indian), 28, 29 Cytos, 3 Date, 29 Diabetic, 29 Diet, 30 Dyspeptic, 30 Egg, 30 Frame food, 30 French, 31 German, 3, 31, 32 Gluten, 31, 32 Graham, 31 Greek, 32 Household, 20 Hovis, 3, 32 Lapland, 33 Malt, 33 Mannheim, 34 Milk, 34 “ Pan,” 47 Potato, 23, 36 Pumpernickel, 36 Queen’s, 36 Rice, 36 Rye, 37 Salt, 38 Sandwich, 38 Vienna, 23, 39 Wholemeal, 2, 40 „ (Sir H. T.’s), 41 average consumption, 9 baking time, 16, 22 “ sponge,” 24 Bread (Continued)— to freshen, 19 to knead and mix, 21, 23 to store, 19 to take out, 22, 24 to test, 17, 24 weight of, 8 Brandy snaps, 124 Braunschweiger K., 156 Brot torte, 154 Buns, Bath, 124 Chelsea, 124 Cocoanut, 125 Cream, 125 Currant or “ Id.,” 125 Eggless, 125 Ginger, 126 Hot cross, 126 Lemon, 127 Plain, 127 Raspberry, 127 Saffron, 128 to make, 128 Butter K., 156, 157 to keep, 189 Cake, 74-80 Alexandra, 80 Almond, 80 „ (saccharin), 81 Angel food, 61 Baba, 152 Balmoral, 81 Birthday, 82 Bordeaux, 82 Bread, 83 Breakfast, 83 Brioche, 153 Carr away, 157195 INDEX. Cake (Continued)— Cherry, 83 Chocolate, 84, 85 „ (American), 156 Cocoanut, 85 Coffee, 85, 86 Cream, 86 Croquet, 93 Currant, 87 Date, 90 Dainty, 159 Delicate, 87 Diet, 87 Dough, 87 Dripping, 88 Dry, 88 Dundee, 88 Easter, 89, 161 Elderberry, 89 Fancy, 89, 90 French, 91 Fruit short, 91 Genoa, 91 Ginger, 92 Gingerbread, 77, 92 ,, Ormskirk,92 Gold and silver, 92 Golf, 93 Guernsey, 93 Glace, 94 Hurry, 93 Isabella, 94 Lady, 165 „ (yellow), 165 Lard, 94 Layer, 95 Lemon jelly, 164 Left-over, 95 Cake (Continued)— Light, 96 Lunch, 96 Madeira, 96 Marble, 167 Mexican, 97 Minnehaha, 170 Oatmeal, 97 Orange, 97, 98 Parkin, 98 Plum (Irish), 99 ,, a la vanille, 99 Polo, 93 Porter, 99 Potato, 99 Pound, 100 „ (cheap), 101 „ Lavy, 101 Prussian, 101 Raspberry, 101 Ribbon, 102 Rice, 103 Rose, 103 Russian, 104 Saffron, 105 Savarin, 173 School children’s, 105 Scotch, 106 Scripture, 105 Seed, 107 Shortbread, 107 Sfmnel, 107-109 Sister’s, 109 Solferino, 110 Spice, 174 Sponge, 77, 110-112 Sultana, 112 Sunshine, 113196 INDEX. Cake (Continued) — Tennis, 113 Trooadero, 113 Twelfth Night, 113 Venetian, 114 Victoria, 114 Vinegar, 115 Walnut, 115 Wedding, 116 Yule, 118 Yule log, 90 Cakes, Hot — Breakfast, 56, 57 Buckwheat, 57 Corn (Indian), 58 Cornish, heavy, 57 Gem, 62 „ ice water, 63 Flannel, 62 Hoe, 61 Johnny, 61 Maryland, 61 Oatmeal griddle, 60 Pikelets, 63 Pone, 63 Popov ers, 63 Rice, 58 „ griddle, 60 Slim, 58, 131 Sly, 59, 134 Stale bread, 61 Tea, Sally Lunn, 67 ,, baking powder, 137 Velvet, 59 Cakes, Small— Almond, 128 „ and chocolate, 129 Cakes, Small (Continued)— Almond, short, 129 Boston cream, 129 Buttermilk, 130 Coffee, 130 Derby, 130 Derwentwater, 130 Devon cream, 130 Drop, 131 Flat, 131 Flead, 132 Fruit, 131 Hot, 131 Irish, 132 Lancashire oat, 132 Meringue, 132 Petticoat tails, 135 Plum (heavies), 135 Potato, 133 „ flour, 135 Orange sandwich, 134 Queen, 133 Shrewsbury, 133 Sponge, 135 Strawberry, 72, 136 Tantallon, 135 Cakes, dripping, &o., for, 75 eggs for, 76 „ whites, 75, 188 flour for, 76 fruit for, 76, 190 materials for, 188 oven for, 77 streaky, 75 sugar for, 76 time for, 78 to decorate, 78, 181 to ice, 182-185197 i INDEX. Cakes, to keep, 187 to mellow, 76, 1S7 to mix, 74, 75 to pipe, 185, 186 to spoil, 78 without an oven, 190 Chocolate cases, 148 Turban, 158 Wafers, 149 Christstollon, 155 Cleanliness, 23 Cornish splits, 50 Cottage loaves, 22 Cream puffs, 138 Croissants, 51, 52 Crullers, 52 Crumpets, 52, 53 Damper, 53 Dimples, 148 Doughnuts, 137 Duchess loaves, 138 Eclairs, 138 Egg powder, 15, 16 to test, 189 to whisk, 75, 188 yolks, to keep, 45 Eisenkuchen, 159, 177 Fadge, 54 Fat rascals, 139 Ferments, 9 Flour, 2, 4, 8 to measure, 9 self-raising, 16 Galettes, 55, 58 G&teau a la Creole, 89 Cussy, 158 de noisettes, 159 Manon, 167 Gateau Millefeuilles, 169 Yera Cruz, 175 Gauffres, 159, 160, 176 Girdle, to clean, 68 Glace, 79 Chocolate, 79, 157 Coffee, 79, 86 Maraschino, 104 Rum, 79 Tea, 79 Grissini, 38, 55 Hippeu K., 160 Honig K., 159 Hutzel Brod, 161 Icing, Almond, 79, 108, 117 Boiled, 80 Date or fruit, 90 Gelatine, 186 Royal, 78, 85, 110 Viennese, 79, 86 „ chocolate, 79 Water, 181 Kaiser semmel, 64 Kipfeln, 51, 64 Kirschen K., 162 Kougloff, 162 Koulitsch, 163 Koulourabia, 164 Kourabi, 162 Lukewarm water, 20 Maca.rons Aimes, 139 Macaroons, Almond, 140 Chocolate, 140, 141 Cinnamon, 141 Cocoanut, 141 de Bruxelles, 140 Pralines, 142 Mandelkranzchen, 166198 INDEX. Mandelmehlspeise, 167 Marzipan, 168 Measures—“ cupful,” 44 “size of an egg,” 45 “ size of a nut,” 45 “pinch,” 45 “ spoonful,” 44 Merveilles, 169 “ Middlings,” 2 Molasses, 44 Muffins, 59 New recipes to master, 44 Year’s bun, 106 Nut fillings, 152 Nuts, to blanch, &c., 190 Oat cake, 60 Othellos and Desdemonas, 147 Oven, 16, 17. 23 (cold), 17 thermometer, 18, 19 to test, 18, 22 Pain de biere, 170 Pate a poupelain, 171 Petits choux, 138 Petits fours, 142, 143 a l’Anglaise, 147 a la Fran9aise, 143 a la Milanaise, 146 aux pistaches, 148 Cann. aux confitures, 144 coeurs au chocolat, 145 croq. St. James, 148 Fanchonnettes, 146' Feuillantines, 146 Oenoises au choc., 144, 145 Mad. glac^es, 143 „ fourrees, 144 Petits fours, Sitdt faits, 145 Petits pains founds, 65 Pfann K., 172 Praline fingers, 147 Radonen K., 172 Rheinescher Bund, 172 Rolls, 43, 45, 73 Breakfast, 51 Bi-an, 65 Brioche, 66 Cake, 65 Cape, 65 Croissants, 51 French, 65 Gem, 65 Kaiser Semmel, 64 Parker house, 64 Stillroom, 64 Rusks, 34, 149 Boer, 68 Salt sticks, 38, 55 Schnee K., 173 Scones, 44, 68, 69 American, 72 barley meal, 72 brown meal. 69 Coomb’s, 73 cream, 70 dropped, 71 Irish, 71 Lito, 71 New York, 79 soda, 72 sour milk, 72 Yorkshire, 73 Seconds, 2, 3 Singing Hinny, 150 Strenzel K., 174199 INDEX. Tailli-kate'if, 163 Tote, 174 Tourte au levain, 170 Vacherin an choc., 175 Waffles, 160-176 Whole meal, 2-3 Wiener Torte, 177 Yeast, brewers’ (barm), 9 flour and water, 12 for hot climates, 13, 14 German, 10, 11 Yeast, German, to test, 11 “high,” 10, 11 “low,” 10, 11 potato, 12, 13 to keep, 14 to remove bitterness, 15 to renew, 14 Zuckerbrod, 177 Zwieback, 178, 179 almond, 180==2^: QtDBURVs COCOA Absolutely Pure, therefore Best. f M£€£ G&R£ when drinking Cocoa to have the pure article only, as many so-called u Pure" Cocoas contain added matter that is not only unnecessary, hut sometimes positively harmful. Cadburv *S COCOA IS ABSOLUTELY PURE, and untampered with, and can be taken with the greatest benfii in Childhood, »n Youth, or in Old Age “ Without exception the most popular Cocoa of ihe day; we are glad to give it the highest praise. For Nourishment there ts nothing superior 10 be found" --M::dical Magazine C.ADBURY s Cocoa is a Perfect Food. /