INTRODUCTORY LECTURE 18 Practical Anatomy. Become conversant with the Theory and Practice of Medicine. In the application of the general prin- ciples of medical science to surgery, however, beware of indulg- ing in theory, unless as confirmed by experience. At the same time, be not led away, by the more showy parts of surgery, from what may seem dry and uninteresting detail, though in reality constituting the important general surgical principles, on which the thorough knowledge of the nature and treatment of injury and disease must ever depend. And, above all things, do not fall into the common error of supposing that operations con- stitute the principal and most important duty of the surgeon. On the contrary, he has to exert all his skill, and all his energy, by milder measures to counteract injury and restrain disease, so as to supersede the necessity for operating; and to effect this is, doubtless, the true triumph of his profession. Blood-thirstiness belongs to the savage beast, not to the intellectual human being. Able by operation to ward off suffering, deformity, and death, yet it is the surgeon’s boast to have recourse to it as seldom as possible; and he is proud to witness, in his profession, the growth of science with expe- rience gradually bringing the ravages of disease more and more under his control. The importance of Hospital Attendance, and other means whereby the student becomes familiar with disease as it is, in nature, not in books, is self-evident; but it is a subject too extensive for present consideration. We come now to inquire, What great principles ought to govern our conduct, in reducing our surgical knowledge to practice. There is one rule, above all others, by which every honest man is bound,—“ Do to others as you would be done h.y>” — and that rule is sacredly binding in the practice of surgery. When doubts arise in the mind of the judicious, as to what is the proper course to pursue in any particular case whether painful operative procedure is imperatively neces- sary, or whether milder means may not attain the object desired, let the surgeon in imagination place himself in the situation of the patient, until he has calmly deliberated on the