8 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE skill at first obtained for him no inconsiderable fame; but the ancient prejudice soon revived in full vigour. An enraged populace — perhaps not without some reason, for he seems to have been particularly fond of using the knife and cautery — compelled him not only to suspend his practice, but, changing his original appellation of “ Healer of Wounds” to that of “ Hangman,” drove him in disgrace from Rome. After this, however, the. prejudice against surgery relaxed somewhat amongst the Romans; and about the Christian era, Celsus enjoyed a reputation as w-ide and exalted as did Hippo- crates four hundred years previously. After him, both the merit and reputation of the surgeon died away until the appearance of Galen, one hundred and fifty years later, who practised surgery with much success in Pergamus, and whose works and doctrines had the singular distinction of continuing to be received as oracular, in the schools of every civilized country, for no. less a period than thirteen hundred years. But soon after his light had been extinguished, a Cimmerian gloom fast overspread the world, by which science and art were long obscured. Paul of AEgina appeared iy the middle of the seventh century, and shone meteor-like in the surrounding darkness. Some of the Arabian school, also, as Albucasis, struggled to lift the heavy load under which surgery lay prostrate and feeble. But their attempts, if successful at all, were but temporarily so. Surgery was helpless under its evil star; and, in the twelfth century, as already stated, quietly submitted to the stroke of annihilation, summarily inflicted by the Council of Tours. From this state of utter extinction, as an enlightened profession, it did not revive till about the middle of the sixteenth century, when, thanks to the talents and energy of Ambrose Pare, it again rose to usefulness and dignity ; and its professors were once more held in the highest repute. Since then, it has graciously pleased an all-wise Providence that no more clouds of darkness should, even for a time, obscure the increasing lustre of our profession. Year by year it has gone on enlarging its sphere of operation —strengthening the founda-