17 ON SURGERY. what would they not have given, could they have been young again, and students, that they might cultivate it zealously as the one thing needful in their profession. Next in importance, as auxiliary to surgical attainments, let him not neglect the Theory and Practice of Medicine. The amalgamation of the principles of the two sciences has been already insisted on, and need not be repeated. Let him beware, however, of being carried away by mere theory, how- ever beautiful in its outline, and plausible in its details, unless so far as it is supported by experience. Nothing can be more dangerous than such a course of study — it is interesting, nay, fascinating, to an ardent and ingenious mind, but will not repay the time and labour. In the end, the student may be entitled to the appellation of scientific, in one sense of the term — but all his book-learning will avail him little, at the bedside of sickness and suffering. It is not of the right kind— it has not been tested by observation and experience. Among the practitioners of the healing art, there are two great extremes — the mere empiric, and the mere theorist — or, as the latter is more commonly termed, the purely scientific Doctor. Here, as in all other extremes, “ in medio tutissimus ibis.” Beware of empiricism on the one hand, and of mere fanciful theory on the other. Let theory and practice be tested by, and blended with, each other, and thus will be obtained the only safe and enlightened views of the treatment of disease. Examples of the folly and danger of the theoretic extreme, are of but too common occurrence. For instance, how often do we witness endeavours to subdue inflammatory action, or remove an irritation, by scientific measures inge- niously contrived for the attainment of various important ends in the animal economy, but overlooking all the while a very palpable cause—as, a foreign body, stricture, or pressure, until the removal of which all the science in the world will be of no avail P On the other hand, into what errors has not mere empiricism led P What a fearful list of “ fatal cures” would not the honest confession of every charlatan disclose? Be diligent, then, in Anatomy, and more particularly in