INTRODUCTORY LECTURE 12 “ He must have a strong steady hand — never subject to tremble,” says Celsus. There are many operations in sur- gery in which the knife’s edge in motion is but a hair’s-breadth removed from the most important organs, injury of which might lead to the most disastrous results. It is very plain, therefore, that the hand which is destined to direct that dangerous, yet useful weapon, ought to be a stranger to trembling. There is a certain degree of tremor inseparable from vitality—a vibratory movement caused by the opera- tions of the heart and larger arteries in carrying on the cir- culation; but this will not interfere with the most delicate manipulation. It is the nervous trembling, giving uncer- tainty to every movement, which is detrimental in surgery; and he who is unfortunately afflicted thus had better cultivate, in preference, the sister science—medicine. Strength, too, it is well to have; for though surgery ought to be conducted fully as much by the suaviter in modo, as by the fortiter in re, yet, in handling the stronger and heavier weapons of the art, power and precision of use, in a strong as well as steady hand, will be found very conducive to gentle- ness and ease of performance. “ He must be ambidextrous.” This qiujjification is not absolutely necessary, but will be ever found most convenient. In many operations—for example, in those upon the eye, and in the very ordinary procedure of venesection — it is of infinite convenience to both patient and surgeon, saving both parties much discomfort and awkwardness of posture. It is not diffi- cult of acquisition, and the practice conducive thereto should not be neglected. “ He must be of a quick clear sight.” This is self-evident. Many of the most ordinary surgical proceedings require both accuracy and quickness of vision ; as for example, in securing the bleeding points in an extensive wound. While, for the efficient and safe performance of others — as operations on the interior of the eye, and delicate dissection of deep and important parts—clearness and truth of vision are peculiarly indispensable.