19 ON SURGERY. question in all its bearings, and his conclusion will not only be all the more judicious in surgical principle, but consonant with the best feelings of humanity. Often it would be but a mis- taken kindness to forego harsh proceedings, simply in pity to the sufferer; but it would be a still greater error to mistake for energy of practice, the infliction of pain and suffering which are not demanded bv prudence and necessity. He who attends to the golden rule, will thereby be guarded from either error. If, again, indolence should creep upon us unawares, and, at a time of leisure or rest, we should feel tempted to turn a deaf ear to a call for our assistance — a moment’s imaginary change of place with the sufferer will suffice to dispel our sloth, and we will obey the summons with alacrity and pleasure. Suf- fering is sacred— the dispensation of Providence—and he who, having been favoured with talents equal to its relief, refuses his aid, incurs a fearful responsibility. It is for the advantage of ourselves, then, as well as of others, that in prac- tice we never forget to obey the rule,—“ Do to others as you would that others should do unto you.” While thus remembering our duty to our neighbours, let us not forget what is due to ourselves and our profession. It is one that is learned, liberal, and enlightened — and its pro- fessors are, and ought to be, gentlemen. I use this word in its strictest sense, as simply expressing a man who is polished in his mind, upright in his conduct, and in all things honour- able— a stranger to the narrow yearnings of self-interest alone, a foe to duplicity, and uniformly attentive to the polite and courteous usages of society. Such are the men in whose hands the practice of surgery ought to be; and let none of us ever cease to remember that such is and ought to be our character. Let us beware of considering eccentricity an invariable indication of superior talent; they may, and do, co- exist; but the former, when assumed, is detestable. A morose and churlish reserve will bear but a bad resemblance to caution or prudence; duplicity will defeat its own object, and bring the possessor into trouble as well as contempt.