10 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE external and local complaints. 3. Such internal affections as produce changes appreciable externally; for example, altera- tions of figure, colour, and consistence. 4. All cases requiring external topical treatment, operations, or manual proceedings of any kind.” Thus we see that the ancient definition of sur- gery, manual procedure, holds a very subordinate rank, in the modern ; the great object of the surgeon being, now-a-days, by skill and judgment, so to combat disease and injury, as to render the use of instruments altogether unnecessary. But even on this classification of what is surgical, experience will ever and anon bring an exception to bear; and the truth is, that much of the arrangement as to what is medical and what surgical, must depend on custom and usage, not on fixed and permanent rules. The paths of the practical sur- geon and physician are to a certain degree distinct; but in their course, they must not only often cross each other, but also be companions for some distance on the way; and these collisions, so far from being avoided, ought rather to be sought, as probable sources of mutual benefit,—so long as those enlight- ened feelings are entertained, and that honourable conduct pursued, which ought ever to distinguish the members of our profession. It is surgery, gentlemen, in this its liberal and extended form, that I propose to teach: — aware of many imperfections weighing on my comparatively inexperienced head, but deter- mined to exert myself to my utmost power, in discharging the duties which I engage to perform towards those who honour me by their attendance. In this, the introductory lecture, I propose not to follow the usual custom of narrating a history of surgery. I will not read over to you a long list of eminent surgeons—begin- ning with Chiron and Esculapius, and ending with Dupuy- tren and Liston—with the sayings and doings of each, and anecdotes illustrative of their varied and numerous peculiarities. This might be curious, yet scarcely instructive. I shall rather consider shortly, as seeming more appropriate, the following questions :—What is requisite to be possessed