ON SURGERY. 9 tions on which it rests — blending science with art, and tem- pering theory by experience — and yielding to him wrho is the honoured instrument of giving forth its benefits to mankind, not only the rich reward of approbation within his own breast, but likewise honour and fame by the esteem and gratitude of his fellow-men. Now-a-days, truly, the original definition of surgery will but feebly express its nature. We must seek for one infinitely more comprehensive — more consonant with the spirit and manner of the time. But this search will prove a difficult one. For, as has already been said, it is impossible actually to separate medicine from surgery. It were easy to define the healing art, as one great whole; and it were easy, by definition, to distinguish medicine from the elementary sciences of Anatomy, Chemistry, and Botany. But when we come to the general principles, by the practice of which disease and death are to be opposed, it is indeed impossible to say where, exactly, medicine ends and surgery begins. In their principles they are the same throughout; and though often separated in practice, yet the separation is not that of acquirements. It should never be forgotten—and cannot be too strongly forced on the attention of the student—that the physician, before he can be either accomplished or successful in his profession, must be intimate with the principles, if not with the practice, of surgery; and most certainly, that no one can lay claim even to the title of surgeon, far less hope for eminence or success, unless he be equally qualified to assume both the appellation and the employment of the physician. The difficulty of placing even an ideal line of demarcation between medicine and surgery, has not deterred writers from the endeavour. On the contrary, much ingenuity and labour have been devoted to the task. We need not follow in the attempt, swelling the list of the unsuccessful, but shall content ourselves with selecting the definition that seems the least objectionable of those extant. Let us take that of Mr Lawrence, who considers surgery to include, — “ 1. Injuries of all kinds. 2. The greater part of