INTRODUCTORY LECTURE 20 . Neither let there be any in our profession actuated solely by the sordid desire of obtaining lucre. It is fortunately a calling in which, not only a competency, but a liberal share of worldly gain compensates the active and well-informed practi- tioner for his labours. But, besides this consideration, he has much to occupy his attention. He should have a constant and zealous regard to the advancement of his profession, bringing the results of his observation and experience to bear upon the elucidation of disease, and thus assisting in the great work of simplifying and extending its cure. He must mingle with the poor as well as with the rich — be a visiter in the hovel, as well as in the mansions of the great. And in his communings with poverty and disease, he will find much opportunity for the full exercise of the noblest and most amiable feelings of his nature. His hand will then be open to give, not to receive, for such labour should be of love alone. And he will feel each toil lightened, each self-denial recom- pensed, by hearing from the soft whisper of conscience, each •mo-ht as he lavs his head upon the pillow, that he has done <D * * his duty, and done it irreproachably. Into our intercourse with professional brethren, let not the canker worm of envy enter. It is the product of a nanow and unwholesome mind, and will but ill attain the object at which it strives. A man who repines at another’s success, who listens to the recital of the errors or misfortunes of a rival with a malicious joy too vivid to conceal, who is nervously jealous of the little reputation he may have scraped together, and trembles with anxiety and anger if it be but rubbed against, — surely such a man need not be the object of oui envy, and has been punished for his own ; for it has led him to adopt a line of conduct, the very opposite to that which is calculated to make him comfortable in himself, or respected by his fellows. Let man meet man with the open brow of candour, and the open hand of fellowship, — as labourers in the same rich field, and as all striving for the same good and great object, — the advancement of knowledge and the alleviation of human misery. Our time is but short in this