•21 ON SURGERY. world, and should not be frittered away in murmurings and contentions one with another. Let our only rivalry be that of enlightened and generous minds, a friendly strife, who shall exert himself most for the benefit of others, and who shall advance furthest, and with the most unblemished steps, in the honourable paths of science and humanity. But let not the young man suppose that his path is to be smooth, sunny, and serene throughout. Like every other way of life, it is in some places both rugged and dangerous. In his professional labours he is exposed to contagion, and may suffer thereby. By this,—or by toil and fatigue, mental as well as bodily,— his health may be impaired, his life even may be sacrificed; but, like a good soldier at his post, danger will not deter him from the fearless performance of his duty. In mingling with the poor, he will meet with much to offend the external senses, as well as much to startle and shock the mind ; for squalid filth and poverty are too often associated with — nay, spring from — depravity and vice. His single-handed charity will not always meet with the tearful eye of gratitude; his successful and disinterested struggles with disease will * sometimes fail to elicit even a show of thanks: yet he is not on that account to stop short in his walk of usefulness, but even to the ungrateful still hold forth the hand of compassion and relief. Anxious nights will sometimes pass tardily, sleep be denied to the weary yet watching eye, and repose fail to refresh the mind, fatigued by careful thought; for disease will not always yield to his most skilful and energetic efforts; and he may even be doomed to witness those nearest and most dear to him, fading slowly yet surely from his tender care, consumed by a destroyer whom all his art and all his zeal cannot restrain. But yet there are sunny and sweet spots in his varied walk, amply repaying the danger and difficulty which may have been elsewhere encountered, and to which remembrance often looks back in mingled pleasure and repose. The demon of disease lias been busy with some beloved object of a family circle, hitherto closely united. A parent is on the verge of eternity.