ON SURGERY. 15 Thus we see, gentlemen, that the mental and corporeal qualifications of the surgeon — all advantageous, and the majo- rity absolutely essential — are partly gifts from Nature, partly acquirements in the power of every one to obtain by industry and perseverance. Let no one, therefore, entering on this profession, despair of advancement. If Nature have not been so fully generous to him as to some of his fellows, let his efforts to compensate for this be but redoubled. Nature, relenting of her previous penury, will meet his exertions half way; and in the end his industry will be rewarded by success more complete than he had even hoped for. And should he be so fortunate as to possess, in any con- siderable degree, that intensely valuable commodity called common sense, he has that within him which, if rightly employed, will atone for a long list of imperfections of minor importance. This quality is essential, I believe, to success in every profession ; and in none is it more valuable than in surgery. Now, let us briefly consider to what objects the student should chiefly direct his attention. In the outset, I say let him be profound, practical, and per- severing in his study of Anatomy. All the elementary branches of medical knowledge are useful to the surgeon, but of these anatomy is the only solid and stable foundation on which true surgical knowledge can rest. What was it that so long retarded the progress of the art, and kept it back from con- nection with science ? Prohibition of the study of human anatomy. In the early history of surgery, the touch of a dead body was interdicted as a profanation. The only anatomical knowledge of the time was obtained by researches in com- parative anatomy, and by instruction from those who had acquired some knowledge of the human viscera in the prac- tice of embalming. It was in Egypt, about three hundred years before the Christian era, that popular prejudice first gave way, and Herophilus and Erasistratus, under the protec- tion of Ptolemy Soter, were the first who had an opportunity of practising human dissection, the bodies of criminals having