14 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE But though courage be thus necessary to the surgeon, never let it be either mistaken for, or associated with, its bastard likeness rashness. Timidity is bad, and may prove calami- tously so; but foolhardy rashness is worse, and its results still more direful, affecting not only the individuals concerned, but dragging into obloquy the honourable and useful profes- sion thus unworthily represented. Has the surgeon stood by inactive, and seen his patient die in circumstances where energy, rightly directed, might have saved him ?—it is a misfor- tune much to be deplored. But when, with rashness — the offspring of ignorance, or the attendant of an ill constructed mind—life has been forfeited to reckless and uncalled-for pro- ceedings, appearing to the public eye but ns wanton cruelties, —then do others widely suffer in the after results, and much time must elapse ere the stain thus cast on surgery can be fully wiped away. Coolness, not the least valuable qualification of the surgeon, is closely allied to courage, and is, in part, a gift of Nature. Some men are naturally so imperturbable, that nothing can possibly rufHe their equanimity. This is almost a deformity of the mind, and consequently is not often met with. There is a coolness, also, ostentatious and assumed, the mark at once of a little mind and of a puny heart. It leads its imbe- cile possessor to unwarrantable display of the counterfeit at unseasonable times. He may ostentatiously stop for some trifling object, or for none at all, in the midst of a painful operation, merely for the gratification of his own conceit, thereby protracting the sufferings, and even endangering the life, of his unfortunate patient. Such conduct is not only despicable, but positively a crime. The most valuable coolness belongs to him who, to natural courage, can add self-confidence — not natural, but acquired — dependent on an accurate knowledge of the practical details of his profession, obtained by long and patient study, and strengthened by successful experience. This coolness it is thus in the power of many to possess; and we are negligent and culpable if we do not seek diligently for it.