22 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE His own fate may be cheerful in prospect, but he weeps as he looks on those whom he must leave desolate and helpless. They are overwhelmed with the one all-en^rossinor and fright- ful conviction that their earliest and best friend, their dearest object on earth, is fast leaving them for ever; that the features they so much love are about to be chilled into a ghastly calm by the icy touch of death — soon to be concealed by the cold green sward, and in the lonely grave to be the prey of hideous corruption. On whom will the eyes of one and all in this distracted group fix with eager intensity, clinging to the hope that he may yet avert the hand of the fell destroyer ? On whose head are blessings poured forth for relief afforded to the suf- ferer, as welcome as unexpected ? Whose hand is wrung with the quivering grasp, and wet with the hot tears of heart-bursting gratitude? And for whom is it that earnest prayers ascend to heaven, daily breathed in deep sincerity by the recovered parent, or lisped in fervent though broken accents by the still weeping, but happy child ? Or again ;■—a fellow being, perhaps a friend, is stricken with a painful and dangerous illness, and feels that he is tottering on the brink of the grave. His body is racked by the tortures of disease, whilst his mind is black with despair,— “ The wretched soul, hour .after hour Clings to the mass of life, yet clinging, leans, And leaning, makes more dark the dread abyss In which it fears to fall." What would not that wretched soul give to be upheld by some strong and friendly arm ? What thankfulness will follow the respite from suffering, from death, and from despair ? His eye, before glaring with remorse, or convulsed in pain, will settle calmly on his benefactor, and though filled with tears, will beam brightly with gratitude ; while his livid and distorted lips, relaxing into a smile of gladness, speak in silent eloquence of those thanks which a choked utterance is unable to convey. Gentlemen, who, I say, in such cases, is the proud and happy man, that is thus as a ministering angel ? as if invested with the power of life, baffling the fiercest onsets of disease, and