ON SURGERY. 13 “ He must be bold,” says Celsus, and says truly; for the exercise of his profession is likely to lead him into scenes cal- culated to appal the stoutest heart. For example, what sight can be more ghastly than that of attempted suicide ? and what more likely to frighten the tiifiid into nervous inefficiency P The horrible chasm in the neck, and the convulsive play of the severed windpipe seen through it — blood flowing in reeking torrents, and in each gush the life of the unfortunate victim plainly ebbing away — his remorseful anxiety of coun- tenance— his eye fixed on yours, wild as that of the maniac, yet asking eloquently for help — his convulsive struggles to retain the miserable life which a few minutes before he sought to destroy—the gurgling efforts at speech that come from his mangled throat, deprecating his own folly, imploring your assistance, or perhaps mumbling an incoherent prayer for the mercy of his Creator, — every movement, look, and gesture, painting in characters too horrible to be mistaken, the pangs of a guilty soul struggling to hold back, but fast gliding into eternity. All this forms a scene of the darkest horror; and yet it is one into which the surgeon is not unfrequently and suddenly called, — while fresh, perhaps, from the contem- plation of external nature in all her quiet loveliness, or hurried from the calm and comfort of his own domestic circle. If timid, he will but add one more to the group of byestanders— useless and panic-stricken. If bold and energetic, he may be able to stanch the tide of life; saving the wretched victim from a fearful death, and perhaps from endless misery. In the performance of capital operations, also, attended with the division of important parts, and profuse flow of blood, many accidental circumstances may occur to obscure and complicate the proceedings, at a time when hesitation and delay might prove fatal. Action on the instant is demanded to meet the difficulty, and courage is essential to the prompt performance. How often does the life of a fellow-creature depend on the decision of a single moment ! and yet this precious time is, by the timid practitioner, suffered to pass away partially or wholly unemployed.