ON SURGERY. 7 surgeon stood high in public estimation. In the Grecian army he was ranked <c of more value than many heroesand as such his praises were sung in the immortal strains of the Iliad. Machaon, when wounded, is represented as absorb- ing the intense interest of the whole army. And his brother Podalirius, for performing the simple operation of phlebotomy, we find rewarded not only with the hand of his patient, the fair Princess of Caria, but also with the Chersonese as her dowry. No w'onder that venesection has been in sovereign repute from that day to this. Indeed, it is to be feared that this was a kind of original sin in Podalirius, entailing much injury, throughout all succeeding generations, on the general mass of humanity, by establishing in the breasts of both doctors and surgeons an innate love of bleeding, gratified too often at the expense of the health, comfort, and life itself, of the sufferer. About seven hundred years later than the Trojan war, we find Damocedes practising surgery in Athens, with honour and success, receiving from Polycrates, king of Samos, a fee of two talents of gold, for having rid him of a troublesome distemper; and when taken prisoner by Darius, instead of being maltreated as a captive, exalted to the highest honours, and loaded with wealth, on account of his surgical skill. To the merits—surgical as well as medical—of the great Hippocrates, the people of his time were not insensible. The inhabitants of Argos voted him a statue of gold. He was more than once crowned by the Athenians, and, though a stranger, was initiated into the most sacred mysteries of their religion — the highest distinction which they could confer. After his death, universal and almost divine honours were paid to his memory. Temples were erected to him, and his altars covered with offerings. The ancient Romans, during the first six centuries of their existence, had neither surgeon nor doctor. They made wounds enough, but had no one to heal and cure them, but their wives and daughters, apd heads of families armed with sor- ceries and incantations. When at length they did obtain a surgeon, by importation from the Alexandrian school, his