X •-> V-x'.-.x*- V XX •-X . »»•.-.- . .. < X\ Xg^K^ •< * * * “• v.% SOUPS SAVOURIES SWEETS With A CHAPTER 'ON '^ ^ BREADS . :•*• >»X ”^v ' I > ' * #’i*5**f7 15 ^ I CX7XLIZBO JiJJf CJjrjf OT LIZB jriXSOVT 000X3 > OH'AW MWRgX>!Tf)^. ''-7 7x. ^ X iiii . *'Vaiyvrrf~f 7 ... ^ :• Xv , . ,*>l'>^ ■ .. x_OV22101734218Med K10289 ^ . .. / :.:■. v ■, ;.J^ . • * '¥' f‘: . V r V _ .1‘jB* ‘ — ^ ^ .1 ^ ^ I - r» .*'.,• j# _ » '*. :v • ' '. ■ >*■ > ■ i-x » ^ • • , ' fL '•*-^ • ‘I ■ ^• ^ ■' t:,-.: '■•: , ■• 'W j'-'w* •*►•• i „’ • 5t <5- . vr^ ^ * vf***'", ' , ,, ■ ■•„• ■ ■ >4’?**.■ ." 'Jt V > ^ T- • • ^ k:.' .MDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28048593SOUPS, SAVOURIES, SWEETS WITH A CHAPTER ON BREADS21' SOUPS, SAVOURIES, SWEETS WITH A CHAPTER ON BREADS BY A PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFE ‘ Civilized man cannot live without cooks ’ Lucille—Owen Meredith LONDON RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON iPubltshcrs in (Drbinarg to ^cr 1889 {All rights reserved)WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. cpr . _ _ fINTRODUCTION. ‘ her oivn hands she dress'd the savoury meat, With her own fingers wrote the choice receipt. ’ Crabbe. 3ntro^uct^on. - - There are many young housewives, well- educated as well as practical, who like to prepare with their own hands the dainty trifles which give variety to the ordinary bill of fare. They delight in placing before those whose comfort is committed to their trust some pleasant surprise as a proof of their culinary skill. A new dish successfully achieved is to them a source of honourable pride, and a receipt found in some century-old ‘ She has no desire to be praised but for her cookery ; nor wishes any ill to the rest of mankind, but that whenever they aspire to feast, their custards 7nay be wheyish, and their pie-crusts tough.'—‘ Rambler.’INTRODUCTION. VI ‘ Look to the baked i?ieats, good A ngelica ; Spaf'e not for cost.’ ‘Romeo and Juliet.’ note-book, tried and pronounced to be ‘ very good,’ is a welcome discovery. To these young housewives I dedicate my book. It may cost them an effort sometimes to put down Shakespeare, Tennyson, or Browning, and to leave the library for the kitchen. Perhaps, if quite candid, they will own that the receipt-book open beside them does not keep their thoughts from turning a little longingly to the favourite author left un- read. But good housewifery will find that even so prosaic a thing as cookery has its aesthetic side. It is the prerogative of the poets to be everywhere at home, and our young matron with her cooking apron on will hear their friendly voices cheering her ‘ Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery, And give them friendly laelcome every one: Let them ivant nothing that my house affords' ‘Taming of the Shrew.’INTRODUCTION. VII ‘ Lahotir is light where love {quoth I) doth pay ; {Saith he) light burden's heavy if far borne.' Drayton. throughout her domestic duties as clearly as though when, with the ‘yEneid’ or ‘Odyssey’ in her hand, she wandered through the fields of classic literature. The truth is, there is nothing in either rank or culture which is incompatible with the homeliest details of domestic life. Our own Princess Royal, for instance, one of the most accomplished women in Europe, is well - known to be equally at home in the kitchen and at Court. It is a fact that during the residence of Princess Louise in Canada, a guest at Government House, remarking on the excel- lence of some patties, was told by the lady who sat beside^him that they might ‘ well be good, for the Princess herself had made them.’ ‘ The best mutton-broth, the best veal-cutlets, the best necks of muttojt and French beans, the best fried fish a^td plumpest partridges, in all Brighto7i were to be had at Miss dlo/teyman's.’—Thackeray.INTRODUCTION. viii ‘ The business of the kitchen's great, For it is fit that 7nen should eat. ’ Sir John Suckling. In our great-grandmothers’ times every woman of noble birth had her still-room, in which she prepared, or presided over the preparations of, such delicacies as belong to the higher branches of cookery. It is one of the healthiest signs of the present time that the idea of feminine dignity is again compatible with homely occupations. To profess ignorance of the domestic arts is now regarded as rather an indication that a woman is under-educated, or even under-bred, than as a proof of her cultivation. I do not, of course, claim that this little volume is a comprehensive cookery-book. From the thousand and one books already before the public, each housewife may select ‘ I a77t 710 Quaker at 77ty food. I co7ifess I a77i 7iot indiffere7it to the kinds of it. Those u7ictuous 77iorsels of deer's flesh we7-e 7iot 77iade to be received with dispassio7iate services. I hate a 77ia7t who swallows it, affecthig 7iot to know what he is eatmg. I suspect his taste m higher matters'—Charles Lamb.INTRODUCTION IX ‘ Marlow. Let's see yozir list of the larder, then. I ask it as a favour. I always match my appetite to my bill of fare.' ‘ She Stoops to Conquer.’ for herself. The receipts here to be found are, for the most part, either original or revivals of dishes well-known a hundred years ago. Each one has been personally tried, not once, but many times. Great pains have been taken to give the methods of each receipt so clearly and fully that if the instruc- tions are exactly followed, even the novice may succeed at the first trial ; and with this object in view I must beg the experienced cook to excuse me if occasionally they seem a little prolix. In addition to receipts, I have given a few everyday menus for the assistance of young housekeepers, to whom the arrangement of dinner in a tasteful and economical way offers ‘ Your usual style of meal—that is, plenteous, comfortable and in its perfection—should be that to which you zuelcome your friends, as it is that of which you partake yourself.'—Thackeray.INTRODUCTION. ‘ Teachuig hozu fair This earth zvere, if all living things be linked In friendliness, and common use of foods. Bloodless and pure.’—Edwin Arnold. a problem which the ordinary cookery-book does little to solve. The progress of dietetic science has so rapidly brought vegetarian dishes into vogue, that in many circles a would be in- complete without them, and, therefore, I have included a number of such receipts. It is singular that no better name than vegetarian- ism has been devised for a system of diet which commonly includes fruit, grain, milk, cream, butter, eggs, honey, in fact every kind of nourishment, with the exception only of meat. Dishes which take the place of meat in their amount and kind of nourishment, and soups which are the equivalent of gravy soups, are here given, and from these the good housewife ‘ Their meat is digested, they nier are molested. No sickness doth them assail’ ‘Old English Ballads.’INTRODUCTION. XI Good friend," -quoth he, I hunger.” '■'•Alas!” the shepherd said, “ My scrip no more containeth hut one little loaf of bread.” ’ Lockhart’s ‘Spanish Ballads.’ can easily make a selection for each meal. In the nursery, also, as children have often a real dislike to meat, these vegetarian receipts will be found both tasty and wholesome. Well-made wheatmeal bread should be found on the table at every meal. Those who do not bake at home can now obtain it from most of the good bakers in London or other large towns. The town housewife must keep a good supply of dried herbs, roots, and such veget- ables as will not spoil by storing, as they are largely used in the receipts for entrees, soups, and sauces. The parcels post and other means of communication recently opened have made it easier than formerly to obtain ‘ And beheld in the kitchen beyond, salads in stacks and faggots; salad of letUice, salad of cress and endive, salad of boiled coleivorts, salad of pickled colezuorts, salad of angelica, salad of sctirvy-wort, and seven salads more j for potatoes were not as yet.' ’ Ch. Kingsley.INTRODUCTION. xii ‘ / ha7!e dined at alderman's boards I have drunk with a German lord. But richer zvas Celandine's ozvn pat'e Than Sir William's soup on Christmas Day.'—Praed. country produce, such as cream, butter, and eggs ; and I would advise our young house- wife, to whom economy is of importance, to make permanent arrangements with her country friends for the supply of these articles. Finally, I commend my little book to the kindly notice of its readers. It has been pre- pared for them in the hope of sparing them some of the difficulties and anxieties which, as mistress of a large household, have fallen to my lot during many years’ experience. If I have in any way smoothed the culinary diffi- culties of young housewives, and if I have added to the resources of experienced ones, I shall have fulfilled my desire in writing it. H. T. B. ‘ The landlord told him that his palate shotild be suited—for -whatever the air, earth, and sea produced, of birds, beasts, or fish, that inn -was abundantly supplied -with' ‘Don Quixote.’‘ Nor do yoti FindJault zvilh the satice, keen hunger being the best.'—Massinger. SfxJcIis anti 3antv^, .BruUm BfucU. Jfisfi SfiJrfr. Brtutfartaii ?>aucc. lDf|ifc Saurc. iRiairmutaisc jDufcIi Sauce, jpiquanfe Sauce, iHucIjuliit JEuast Sauci^. ©^ualutiTum Sauce, j CCmittiT Sauce, I Cumafu Sauce, j OTcuHl Sauce, Becliautel Sauci^ Jaciiiuicice Sauce. Haisiu Bechai[ Sauci^, [ CCljcje^eq Sauce, ‘ A^e cared he for wine or half-a?id-half; Ne cared he for fsh, or fesh, or fozvl; And sauces held he wo/thless as the chaff.’ Keats.STOCKS 3 B 2 ‘ Lemons, and tvine for sauce : to these a coney Is not to be despaired of for our 7noney.' Ben Jonson. StocFJS. introduction, HE foundation of all soups, and also of many sauces, is called ‘ Stock.’ Stock may be brown or white. If the former, it is made from dark meats, such as beef, and game of any kind ; if the latter, from veal, mutton, chicken, rabbit, and from fish-bones. For vegetarian cookery it can be made from ‘ Woe zvas his cook, but if his sat tee zvere Poy7ia7tt and sharp, and ready all his gereP Chaucer.STOCKS. 4 ‘ They viade a most superio?- mess of broth, A thing which poesy but seldom mentions.' Byron. lentils, haricot beans, sago, and barley. It is customary in large households to have always standing on the kitchen stove a stock-pot, into which the bones and trimmings of meat and poultry are put; water, vegetables and herbs being added. These, when they have boiled for a dozen hours or more, and been strained, form stock, which when put into a cool place sets into a jelly. In cold weather this ‘ stock-jelly’ will keep a week, especially if boiled up occasionally. In hot weather it becomes sour quickly, so that it is better to have the stock-pot constantly emptied and renewed. This stock, though useful for some soups, and quite sufficient for all sauces, will not do ‘ What needes of dainty dishes to devise. Of comely services or courtly trayne?' Faerie Queene.STOCKS. 5 ‘ Now I praise the genial hostess Who prepares the toothsome dinner, when strongly flavoured soups are required. For such soups fresh meat will be needed, and the following recipe will serve as a guide to young cooks how to make ‘ soup stock.’ m\ntc StocI?, Cut up four pounds of fillet of veal into pieces the size of dice, and break small any bone there may be in it. Put these into a large saucepan with a close-fitting lid, and with them the following ; one gill of cold water, a quarter of a pound of butter, two carrots, two onions, one turnip, three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bunch of thyme and parsley. Put the pan over a brisk fire for about fifteen minutes, stirring round the con- Fil/s with plenty all her tables, Bakes the honeyed loaves of barley. Kneads the dough 7vith magic fingers, With her arms of strength and beauty!' Finnish Kalevala.STOCKS 6 ( I ‘ This Bouillabaise a nolle dish is— A sort of SOtip, or broth, or Ireiv, Or hotchpotch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo. tents occasionally. Add three quarts of water and a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer for two hours, keeping it well skimmed so that no fat is left floating on the top. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and put away for use. Brown Stock. This is made in the same way as the white stock, only beef takes the place of veal, and mace is not used as a flavouring. jfisb Stock. The bones of any delicately flavoured fish can be used for this. They should be covered with water with a little salt in it, and gently simmered until the water is reduced one half. ‘ Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saffron. Soles, oniojis, ttarlic, roach and dace: All these you eat at Terre's taversi. In that one dish of Bouillabaise '—Thackeray.STOCKS. 7 ‘ The C07)iic of those contrivances, Cold glories served up with three-pauls' worth' sauce.' Robert Browning. and the liquid is thick and glutinous. This stock is useful for all fish sauces and for oyster soup. IDecjetarian Stock. One pound of Egyptian lentils, six ounces of pearl barley, three carrots, six, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery seeds, four cloves, a blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of salt. Put a gallon of water into a large sauce- pan'" with a well-fitting lid, put in also the pearl barley. Put on the fire, and when the water is boiling add the other ingredients. Simmer slowly for six or eight hours by the * See note on Saucepans, page i, Soups. ‘ Garnished with spoons of shell and hont Stood the birche7i dishes of S77?oki//g cor7i.' Whittier.STOCKS. 8 ‘ / can't say that she gave them any tea. But there ivere eggs, fruit, coffee, bread, fish, honey. With Scio %iiine,—and all for love, not money.'— side of the fire. Strain the stock through a fine sieve, and put it aside for use. Ifisb Sauce. One pint of fish stock, two teaspoonfuls of Hour, a shred or two of lemon peel, four drops of essence of anchovy, half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; two teaspoonfuls of cream or new milk. Mix the flour smoothly with the cold stock, and boil until the thickness of a custard. Add the cream, anchovy, and lemon-juice (remov- ing the pan from the fire before adding the latter). Take out the lemon-peel, and, if the anchovy does not make this unnecessary, add salt to taste. ‘ To every guest tli appropriate speech is made. And evc7'y dtity with distinction paid.'—Crabhe.STOCKS. 9 ‘ Butter I warrant be prime, and I zvarrant the eg;ps he as well Hafe a pint of milk runs out when I break the shell.' Tennyson: ‘Village Wife.’ mWntc Sauce. 'fhree ounces of butter, three ounces of flour, three mushrooms or teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, one pint of white stock— meat or vegetarian—one gill of milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan and stir in the flour. Continue to stir over the fire for two or three minutes ; then remove the pan, stirring still until quite cool. Pour the cold white stock into it, add the mushrooms and return the pan to the fire. Let this boil for fifteen minutes. Boil the milk and add it. Strain off the mushrooms and pour the sauce into a basin to cool, stirring occasionally. When required for use the sauce must be heated carefully that it may not curdle. ‘ Fowls a la Conde, slices eke of salmon, With sauces Genevoises and haunch of venisott.' liYRON.STOCKS. ‘ Of old, when Scan-on his companions invited. Each guest bi ought his dish, and the feast 7vas united. If our landlord supplies us with bef and 7uilh fish Let each guest bring himself and he brings the best dish.’ Goldsmith. /IDavonnaise Sauce. The yolks of four eggs, half a pint of cream, either fresh or sour ; one dessert- spoonful each of salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and common vinegar ; one teaspoonful of mustard. Whip the yolks up slightly with the cream, and put them into a saucepan. Mix the re- maining ingredients smoothly together, and add them to the eggs and cream. Put the pan on the fire and stir the sauce rapidly with a wooden spoon until it is scalded, then remove from the fire. (Great care must be taken that the sauce does not curdle ; it will not do this if kept from boiling.) If the sauce is to be served cold it will require ‘ Hogsheads of honey, kilderkins of mustard.'—Byron.STOCKS 11 ‘ 1 he sauce to meat is ceremony.'—Macheth. Stirring as it cools to prevent a skim forming on the top. If preferred, the acid flavour can be given to this sauce by using lemon-juice instead of vinegar. Butcb Sauce* Half a pint of white sauce with the addition of the yolk of an egg, one teaspoonful each of tarraofon and chili vineq-ar added immedi- ately before the sauce is poured into the sauce tureen. This sauce, like the above, must not be allowed to boil, and if it has to be made some time before it can be served it will run less risk of curdling if cooked in a hot water bath. ‘ Myself by denial I inortify With a dainty bit of warden pie.' Old Ballad.STOCKS. 12 ‘ How feels 'f he onion bulb your knife parts, pushinsr through its peels, Till out you scoop its clove tvherem lie stalk and leaf And bloom and seed unborn V—Rober t Browning. Ipiquante Sauce, Two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, or eschalot (which have been first washed in water and dried in a cloth), four tablespoon- fuls of tarragon or common vinegar, twelve tablespoonfuls of brown stock thickened with a saltspoonful of flour, half a tablespoonful each of chopped parsley and pickled gherkins, one bay-leaf, one lump of sugar. Put the onions, vinegar and bay-leaf into a saucepan, and boil. Then add the brown stock, parsley and gherkins. Boil together for five or six minutes. Take out the bay-leaf, add the sugar, and the sauce is ready for use. For vegetarians, ‘vegetarian stock’ can be substituted for the brown stock. ‘ Their tables ivere stored full to glad the sightf—Pericles.STOCKS. 13 ‘ He doth learn to make strange sauces, To eat anchovies and macaroni.' Ben Jonson. Sauce for Hucbov>\? Uoast Beat up slightly the yolks of two eggs. Add to them three tablespoonfuls of warmed cream or milk, and two drops of anchovy essence. Keep this in a basin near the fire until wanted. /Ibusbroom Sauce. Cut four medium-sized mushrooms into pieces the size of half an oyster. Put them into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of flour, half an ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of ketchup, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, pepper and salt. Boil for a few minutes, stirring the flour smooth. Add half a pint of white stock and boil for fifteen minutes. The ‘ What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander Beaumont and Fletcher.STOCKS. ‘ Stuh was the sauce of Naivah's noble feast'—Cowley. .sauce will then be thick and smooth. Just before pouring it into the sauce-boat, add two tablespoonfuls of cream, or milk, if the cream cannot be had. Curr^ Sauce, Two onions, a good-sized apple, one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of flour; brown stock (or water browned with browning or soy) one pint; a teaspoonful of Edmund’s curry powder, half a teaspoonful of Edmund’s curry paste, half a saltspoonful of salt. Peel the onions ; cut them and the apple into thin slices. Put these with the butter, the curry powder and paste, and the salt, into a saucepan. Simmer all together with the lid ‘ When thou, perha/'S, carnivorous shine'-, IJadst pullets yesterday for dinner I'—Gay.STOCKS 15 ‘ P. Hf.n. IVhat hast t/iou found? Poi .NS. Nothing but papers, ?ny lord. P. Men. Let's see what they be : read them. on till quite soft. Then stir in a tablespoon- ful of flour, and add the brown stock. Boil for twenty minutes ; then pass through a hair sieve or strainer. It is then ready for use. This sauce should be prepared the day before it is wanted, and whatever is to be curried should be soaked in it over-night. Haricot beans, Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable mar- rows, rice and macaroni are excellent curried in this way. XTomato Sauce. Three large tomatoes, one small onion, half an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, half a pint of water ; pepper and salt to taste. Boil the tomatoes for twenty mnnutes or ‘ PoiNS. Item, a capon, 2s. 2d. Jtem, sauce, e,d. Item, s.xck, isvo gallons. 5^. %d.' King Henry IV.STOCKS. ‘ Where Corydon and I'hyrsis viet, Are at their savoury dinner set. Of herbs and other cotin try messes Which the neat-handed I'hyllis dresses'—L’Ai.legro. until they are quite soft. Pass all through a hair sieve and return to the saucepan. Mix the flour with a spoonful of cold water ; add it to the tomatoes, and boil for five or ten minutes, when the sauce will be of the thickness required. A soupcon of cayenne pepper and the addition of a small lump of sugar is con- sidered by some to be an improvement to the same. Xentil Sauce. One onion, one ounce of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, three-quarters of a pint of ‘ vegetarian stock.’ ateaspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Slice the onion. P ry it in the butter until it ‘ His thirst he slakes at some ftire neighbouring brook. Nor asiis for sauce where appetite statids cook.' Churchill. i6STOCKS. ‘ Great things were now to be achieved at table. With massy plate for armour, knives and forks For weapons ; but what A/use but Homer's able {Hisfeasts are not the luorstpart of his works) is a nice brown colour. Mix in the flour and then the stock, stirring all the time. Continue to stir over the fire until it boils. Then draw the saucepan aside and leave it to boil for ten minutes. Just before serving add the ketchup and let the sauce run through a strainer into the entree dish. Becbamel Sauce. Boil one pint of white meat stock, until it is reduced to half a pint. In a second saucepan put half a pint of thick cream and mix with it a dessertspoonful of fine flour. Boil for five minutes over a clear fire, stirring all the time. Add the boiling stock to it, and when perfectly mixed let the sauce stand on the stove ready for use. The flavouring To draw up in array a single day bill Of modern dinners V—Byron.STOCKS. ‘ Ketchup, soy, chili vinegar, or Harvey, Or by the Lord! a I^ent ivill zuell-nigh starve ye.' Bykox. of this sauce depends entirely on the way the ‘stock’ is flavoured. When cream is not procurable milk may be used ; but in this case, to make the sauce smooth and rich- tasting, the yolks of two eggs should be put into the tureen and the boiling sauce poured on them. 3arbinth‘c Sauce. One and a half pint water, one large onion, two carrots, a small turnip, a tablespoonful of green peas, also of cut French beans ; a small stick of celery, two tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, one ditto of soy, a bunch of herbs, salt to taste. Boil the water, add the carrots and onion, cut in dice ; when they are softened add the ‘ Of Irish szvaius, potato is the cheer.'—Gav. i8STOCKS. C 2 19 ‘ By that which lately hapned Una saw That this her knight was feeble and too faint; . . . Other ingredients, and simmer until all are cooked soft, but not reduced to pulp. Take out the herbs and pour the sauce round the quenelles. IRaisin IRectar Sauce. One half ounce butter, one dessertspoonful of flour, a quarter of a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, half a pint of raisin nectar. Melt the butter and flour together in a porcelain-lined saucepan, and when smooth add the raisin nectar by degrees, stirring all the time with a wooden pin.* Add the nut- * For stirring over the fire sauces or sweets thickened with flour, a ‘wooden pin’ is better than a spoon, as the thickening is apt to be retained in the bowl of the spoon and produce lumps. The handle of a worn-out wooden spoon makes a ‘pin.’ Therefore, to cherish him with diets daint. She cast to bring him where he cheare7i might. Till he recovered had his late decayed plight.' ‘Faerie Queene.’STOCKS. 20 ‘ Cow's milk there is and store of curdled cheese.' Shelley. meg. Keep the pan on the fire five or six minutes to boil, stirring all the time. Serve hot in a sauceboat. Cbeese Sauce. A quarter pound of grated Parmesan cheese, one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of Hour, half a teaspoonful of salt, mustard and pepper to taste, a salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of potash. Melt the butter over the fire and mix in the flour, mustard, pepper, and salt ; add gradually the cold milk, and stir till it boils to prevent it becoming lumpy. Add the cheese, and, immediately before it is served, the potash, ‘ Pie follows goose, and after pie comes cheese. Stilton or Cheshire, sir ! Ah, vat you please!' Planchk.STOCKS. 21 ‘ He gave his din7iers in a handsovie style. And met his neighbo^trs with a social smile.' Crabbk. which will give it a light and frothy appear- ance and render it very digestible. When this sauce is used for cheese maca- roni, or cheese porridge, the potash should be put to it after the macaroni and rice have been added. The7'e stole upo7i Inm from the kitchen a gentle sound of frying, with a musical clatter of plates and dishes, and a savoury smell that made even the boisterous wind a perfume.'—Dickens.23 ‘ 'I'he soup was a sort of puree of dried peas, lahich mcuiemoiselle had prepared amidst bitter lamentations that in this desolate country of England no haricot beans were to be had.’—C. 13rontk. Jcnnit Suup. BluUtixataUtmj Sai4n ilKitck ©amc iSBaup. Julic^nnc Saup. nice ?&aup. Cfixstmif Saitp. *5catcl| jBcaili. ip>%a-poij (C^leaftitvt Saup. Black Siivtlc Saup. BarlciJ Saup. ^aupc Blatfivc. Blusl|ttaam $aup. ‘ When they exceede, and haue varietie of dishes, the first are their baked meates {for roste metes they vse little) and then their brothes or pottage’—Hakluyt.I 'SI 'V ■* ’1 r i7' u 1 i < »t< » 1 •» H ■SOUPS. 25 ‘ Is there that o'er his French ragout . . . Looks doivn wi' sneering scornfu' view. On sic a dinner f—Burns. Soups, Jennp Xinb Soup (wbite), ID/ OUR carrots, three onions, one ounce of Egyptian lentils, one ounce of white haricot beans, two ounces of large sago, the yolks of two eggs, a gill of cream or new * All receipts marked ‘V.’ can be used by vegetarians. In this and in all other vegetarian dishes, iron-enamel, porcelain or tin lined saucepans should be used, as copper or brass pans are liable to be acted on by veget- able acids. ‘ Soup of the evening, heatitiful soup.' ‘ Ai.ick in Wonderland.’SOUPS. 26 ‘ Instead of light deserts and luscious froth. Our author treats to-night zvith Spartan broth' SOUTHERNE. milk, a stick of celery, a saltspoonful of ragout seasoning ; salt to taste. Make a ‘ stock ’ by boiling for six hours in a covered saucepan the vegetables, lentils, beans, salt and seasoning in two quarts of water. Whilst this is preparing, wash the sago and cook it slowly for two hours in one pint of water. Take the stock from the fire and pour it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add the cooked sago and return the whole to the saucepan to keep hot. Have the cream (or milk) heated in a separate pan, and when required to serve whisk it up for a few minutes with the yolks of the eggs in the bottom of the warmed tureen. Pour the boiling stock over this, stirring all the time ‘ Many a root. Szveet and sustaining.'—.Shelley.SOUPS. 27 ‘ Beautiful sotip ! who cares for fish. Game, or any other dish ? Who would not give all else for two-p Ennywo7-th only of beautiful soup ?’ ‘Alice in Wonderland.’ to prevent the eggs curdling, which would spoil the soup. Should it curdle, however, the only thing to be done is to strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, but even then the soup will not have the smooth delicate taste which is its characteristic if carefully made. /IDock (3ame Soup. X). Two large carrots, two onions, one ounce of butter, five cloves, a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of black peppercorns, a stick of celery or a saltspoonful of celery seeds, a salt- spoonful of Herbaceous Seasoning a table- spoonful each of mushroom ketchup, and browning sauce, three ounces of bread in a Morgan and Lawley, Vicar Street, Kidderminster. ‘ Behold! the earth hath roots.' ‘Timon of Athens.’SOUPS. 28 ‘ I'll sit do7V7i o'er my scanty meal. Be't ivate>--brose or muslin kail, M''i' cheerfu' face.'—1]urns. thick slice, a large teaspoonful of arrowroot, three pints of water. Fry the vegetables in the butter until a light-brown colour. Add the water boiling and the seasoning. Simmer for two hours, after wFich add the bread and let the soup simmer another hour. Strain it through a hair sieve and return the stock to the saucepan. Pass a third part of the cooked vegetables and the bread through a sieve into a basin. Next, take a few spoonfuls of the stock from the saucepan and mix the arrowroot smoothly with it. Return this to the saucepan, boil for two or three minutes, after which add the pulped vegetables and flavouring sauces. Keep hot until required to serve, and im- ‘ There's roast potatoes at the fire—enough for you and me.' ‘Ingoldsby Legends.’SOUPS. 29 ‘ Alas ! I must have undescribed the gihie}', The salmi, the coisomme, the puree.'—Byron. mediately before pouring it boiling into a tureen, drop in a dozen savoury balls made of three ounces of finely-grated breadcrumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, small salt- spoonful ragout seasoning, six drops lemon- juice, pepper, saltspoonful of salt, one ounce butter, yolk of one egg. Mix these ingredients all well together ; roll into very small balls, dredge them with a little fiour and fry in butter a light brown. This quantity will make twenty-four balls. UDancot ip»uree. ID. One pound of white haricot beans, two carrots, two turnips, three onions, one table- ‘ While she loves turnips, butter I'll despise ; Nor leeks, nor oatmeal, )ior potatoes prize! Gay.sours. 30 ‘ The soupe their only Iimukie [roza] does afford^ That yont the hallan sjiugly chozvs her food' Burns. Spoonful of tapioca, one gill of cream or new milk, three quarts of cold water ; pepper and salt to taste. Soak the beansin cold water all night. Drain them the following morning, and boil gently for three hours in three quarts of water. Fhen add the vegetables cut in quarters and the tapioca, and boil for two hours. After this strain the soup through a hair sieve into a basin. Pick out the vegetables, leaving the beans in the sieve. Pass these through to the soup with a flat wooden spoon ; stir round a few times and return the soup I * Lentils and haricot beans may be had from the Stores or from Sydney Young, 29, Mark Lane, E.C. | I ‘ As for the thrice tJwee-angled beech-nut shell, \ Or chestnut's armed husk, and hid kernele, j No squire dust touch, the law zvould 77ot affo7-d, Kept for the court a7td for the kmg's own boai’d.' Bishop Hall.SOUPS. 31 ‘ When the chestnuts glow in the embers, A nd the kid turns on the spit. ’ Macau lay. to the saucepan. Add the cream and pepper and salt; boil for a few minutes and serve. Cbestnut Soup. Blanch and peel fifty chestnuts, and simmer them in water or pale-coloured meat stock enough to cover them. When quite tender pass them through a tammy cloth or a fine hair sieve. Have ready thickened, with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed in with one ounce of butter, three quarts of white meat stock. Boil this for ten minutes and pour it boiling over the mashed chestnuts. Return all to the saucepan, flavour with a strip of lemon-peel, half a blade of mace and a little ‘ My meat shall be what these wild woods afford. Berries and chestnuts.' Beaumont and Fletcher.SOUPS, 32 ‘ My little kit. That held my luee soup ivheyd Scottish Song. salt. Boil for half an hour, removing the mace and lemon-peel in half that time. If a gill of cream can be added to the soup just before it is poured into the tureen for serving it will greatly add to the richness of the soup. This quantity will serve fora j)arty of eighteen persons. When whole chestnuts cannot be obtained, ground chestnuts can be used in- stead. Of this, one tablespoonful will be required for every pint of stock. lPea:spot) Soup. ID. Boil two quarts of water with a teaspoonful of salt, one lump of sugar, and three sprigs of mint. When boiling, add two quarts of fresh shelled pea-pods, and boil for forty minutes. ‘ Of all the things / ever swalloxu. Good, ^veil-dress'd turtle beats them hollow ; It almost makes rue wish, 1 vow. To have two stomachs, like a cow.'—Hood.SOUPS D 33 ‘ And speedily the tables were ylaide. And to the dinner faste they spedde.’ Chaucer. When quite tender, pass them through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Put this puree back into the saucepan ; add one pint of boil- ing milk in which half an ounce of butter has been melted, a teaspoonful of chopped mint, salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot, and hand with it croutons of fried bread. flDock turtle Soup, ID. One ounce butter, one small carrot, turnip, and onion, a bay-leaf, a stick of celery, four cloves, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, one dessertspoonful each of flour and lentil or pea-flour, salt, and ‘ Herbaceous Seasoning’'"' to taste ; one ounce of ribbon macaroni, one * See note, page 27. ‘ Fig, pudding, and soup, the electrified group. With the flagon, pop under the sofa itt haste.' Ingoldsby.SOUPS, ‘ That all-softening, all-o'erpotvering knell. The tocsin of the sotil—the dinner-helll Byron. teaspoonful of soy, a squeeze of lemon, and one quart of water. Put the butter in a saucepan and place it on the stove until of a light golden colour ; then add the vegetables, well washed and cut in small pieces. Cover the pan and simmer until the vegetables are soft, which will be in three-quarters of an hour. Draw the pan on one side, stir in smoothly the two flours, add the water carefully, so that there are no lumps, and return the pan to the fire. Add the seasoning, herbs and lemon-juice, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain the soup through a sieve, and draw the pan on one side, keeping on the lid until time for serving. If the macaroni is liked, boil it quickly in ‘ I smell the smell of roasted fjteat, 1 hear the hisshig fry O. W. Holmes.SOUPS. D 2 35 ‘ ihe soup’s got cold in the silver tureen. And there's nothing, in short, that is fit to be seen !’ Ingoldsby. water with the soy, then drain it, and cut it up into large pieces. When the soup is boiled up before serving, throw the macaroni in just before pouring it into the tureen. Small fried balls of savoury stuffing are an improvement to the soup. Soupe /Ibatote. ID* Four carrots, two turnips, four onions; half a pint of green peas, fresh or tinned ; a stick of celery, a bunch of mint, parsley and thyme; two quarts water ; pepper and salt to taste. Boil these in a closely covered stock-pot from two to three hours. Strain off the stock from the vegetables, and put it on the fire to boil. Have ready cut up into dice or shreds, a carrot, small turnip, half a stick of celery, a ‘ Fill your baskets high. With fennel green, and balm, and golden pines. Savory, latter-mint, and colufubines. Cool parsley, basil sweet, and sunny thyme.' Keats.SOUPS. 36 ‘ There is a dish of leather-coats for you.' ‘ King Henry IV.’ few French beans, a quarter of a lettuce, and a quarter pint of peas. When the stock boils put in these vegetables and boil until quite tender, but not soft enough to break and spoil the appearance of the soup. Serve in a heated tureen. /IDulUgatawn^ Soup. ID. Two quarts of water, three large carrots, two turnips, a stick of celery, three onions, a bunch of herbs with parsley, two bay-leaves, one dessertspoonful of curry paste, and ditto powder, a saltspoonful of black peppercorns, a blade of mace, six cloves, the rind of half a lemon and the juice of the same ; three large apples, or if not in season a dessert- ‘ To night, grave sir, both my poor house ami /, Do equally desire your company ; Not that 7ve think us worthy such a guest. But that your worth will dignify our feast' Ben Jonson.SOUPS. 37 ‘ But his neat cookery ! He cut our roots in characters ; And sauced our broths, as Jtmo had bec7i sick. And he her dieter.'—‘ Cymbeune,’ Spoonful of pickled cucumber or beans will do instead ; a dessertspoonful of flour, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful each of salt, brown sugar and soy. Cut the vegetables in slices. Mix the curry powder with the dessertspoonful of flour and sprinkle the cut vegetables with it. Put the butter in a stewpan, and when melted add the vegetables and fry a light brown. Take the quarts of water, boiling, and add it to the vegetables, herbs, spices, salt, sugar, lemon rind, apples, and soy, and boil for six hours. Before removing the soup from the fire to strain it, add a teaspoonful of flour and the curry paste, mixed smoothly in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Boil for ‘ / love a table furnished with full plenty.' Massinger.SOUPS. 38 ‘ And in due time a banquet was placed on the boat'd, “ In the very best style," which implies in a word, “ All the dainties the season ” {and king) “ could afford." ’ Ingoldsby. ten or twenty minutes, serve hot, adding the juice of the half lemon when the soup is in the tureen. Boiled rice should be served on a separate dish. julienne Soup. 1^. Four large carrots, two onions, four turnips, a quarter of a stick of celery, a sprig of thyme, a tablespoonful of dried mushroom or of ketchup, a pinch of Herbaceous Season- ing ; salt to taste ; one quart of cold water. Put all these ingredients in a saucepan, and stew for six or eight hours with the lid tightly down. When the vegetables are quite tender, but not reduced to a mash, pour the soup through a fine sieve into a basin. Put aside ‘ / took the liberty to boil my peas.' ‘Peter Pindar.’SOUPS. 39 ‘ They licked the soup from the cook's cnvn ladles.' Browning. all the vegetables but one carrot and the celery. Cut these into thin shreds and keep them on a plate in the sieve until wanted. Return the clear soup to the saucepan, and just before serving throw into the tureen the cut veget- ables. Boiled green peas or asparagus tops im- prove this soup much. IRice Soup, 1). Three quarts of cold water, three large onions, four carrots, one turnip, a quarter of a stick of celery; a bunch of thyme, parsley, and other savoury herbs ; a bay-leaf, four cloves, one blade of mace, one teaspoonful of salt, one ditto of peppercorns, one pint of milk, ‘ The first of a feast and the last of a fray Has been a wise word for this many a day /’ Sir Henry Taylor.SOUPS 40 ‘ Before the Cabinet adjusts its cloth For Christmas pudding or the Scottish broth.' ‘The Siliad.’ or three-quarters of a pint with one gill of cream ; three ounces of rice. Cut the washed and prepared vegetables into halves, put them into a covered pan with the herbs and spices. Simmer by the side of the fire for four hours. Then strain the stock through a fine sieve into a basin. Put back the strained stock into the saucepan with the rice, and boil for about an hour. By this time the stock will be thick. Reduce it to the right consistency with the milk and cream, which must be boiling ; stir round a few times, add more salt if necessary, and serve in a tureen previously warmed. Scotch JSrotb. ID, Three quarts and one gill of water, four ‘ Cook it any way : prithee leave me' Massinger.SOUPS. 41 ‘ mete and drhike this flight wol 1 bring Ynough for Chaucer. onions, three carrots, two turnips, a small stick of celery, or teaspoonful of celery seeds; a bunch of parsley, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one of sorrel ; three ounces of pearl barley ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut the vegetables in halves, and boil them in three quarts of water for two hours. During this time soak the barley in the gill of water. Strain the broth through a fine sieve, putting aside a piece of carrot and celery to be cut up in thin shreds. Return the clear liquor to the saucepan, put in it the barley, pepper and salt, and boil for two hours, or until the barley is quite soft. Strain again through a sieve. Return one tablespoonful of the barley to the broth, together with the chopped parsley and ‘ The best of the tables and the best of the fare.' Clough.SOUPS. 42 ‘ For soups and stews, and choice ragouts, Nell Cook was famous still; She'd make thejn even of old shoes, she had such 7vondrous skill.’ Ingoldsby. sorrel, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil up and serve in a previously heated tureen. (Telestine Soup (wbtte), ID. Half a pint of pearl barley, six carrots, four onions stuck with eight cloves, a stick of celery, half a small turnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a table- spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, a small teacupful of milk, four quarts of water. Wash the barley, put it into a large sauce- pan with the water and salt. Boil ; then put in the carrots, onions, celery and turnip, cut into quarters, and the herbs and mace. Simmer with the lid on for six hours, after which strain through a fine hair sieve, and ‘ Is supper ready, the house trimmed, rushes st?-eiun, cobwebs sivept ?' ‘Taming of the Shrew.’sours. 43 ‘ The corn all strong and stately. In its bearded bravery gre^u. ’ Gerald Massey. return it again to the saucepan. As the simmering will have reduced the stock and left it too thick, add milk till the stock is of the consistency of cream. Shortly before the soup is served, whisk up the yolks of the eggs with a quarter of a pint of milk at the bottom of a warmed tureen; and when the soup is served pour it boiling from the sauce- pan on to the eggs, slowly at first, to prevent curdling, and rapidly stirring all the time. A few boiled green peas or asparagus heads put into the soup improve it. Cream added to the eggs instead of milk miakes the soup very rich. :fi3arle\? Soup, Three large carrots, two turnips, four ‘ It’s quite over-boiPd too. The butter is oil'd too. The soup is all spoil'd too. It's nothing but slop.'—Hood.SOUPS. 44 ‘ Die mind is lost iti mighty contemplation. Of intellect expended on two courses.' Byron. onions, a stick of celery, a bunch of parsley, four sorrel leaves, two large tablespoon- fuls of pearl barley, one pint of milk, a small blade of mace; pepper and salt to taste ; two quarts of spring or filtered water. Boil the vegetables and spices in the water for three hours. Strain through a hair sieve, and return the stock to the saucepan. Soak the barley in sufficient cold water to cover it for an hour, and add it. Boil together for three hours. Before serving, boil the milk in a separate saucepan, and pour it into a warmed soup tureen. Over this pour the boiling stock, carefully stirring all the time. A tablespoon- ful of cream is an improvement to this soup, ‘ Man, Nature's guest by invitation sweet, deceives from her both appetite and treat ; But, if he play the glutton, and exceed. His benefactress blushes at the deed.' COWPER.SOUPS. 45 ‘ By the rose-flesh vnishrooms, nndivulged Last evetiing. ’—B rown i n g. and small dice of fried bread may be added just before serving. /IDusbrootn Soup. ID. Twelve large mushrooms, one quart of milk, one onion stuck with three cloves, two blades of mace, half a teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon- ful arrowroot mixed with a tablespoonful of cold milk, a little pepper and pounded mace. Put the trimmings and stalks only of the mushrooms into a saucepan with the milk, onion, mace, and salt. Simmer for two hours, strain it, and put back into the saucepan. When boiling, stir in the arrowroot, pepper, and mace. A tablespoonful of cream is a great improvement. This quantity of soup will be enough for three persons. ‘ None heeded them. All zuere so busy with their mushroom huntd Mickiewicz.47 ‘ They led hhn to the smoking board. And placed him next to the castle's lord.' Praed. Eenfil (E^Il^ps. 1 Qlrcimt tiq iBwlaille. Euixtit (2rcme. Caliacfc {^ala (a OToItr (2i;00in:*ftES uf Ec^ntile. ' (gnfrqc). Ba00iu^i| (Cmujs. iprussian OTuilcfs. BarlEit Citf*Ef0. ■ <ai0ll00a a TJfa- a la J^arMn- iliCE (2uflEf0. #ibcl0tfe 0f iEa&lJtf. Caimf ilumf0Ek Saslj. Bramt^sUics. BEuf0 aiix PEtifs p0i*5. (200 Dari^rca. (2asiBEr0lE0. 1 Crijmc ii'E00inE. CuamtliEEs. Beap^Iifau Cr^qi^ffce. BfuffEii ®lusI|E00ms. 1BEap0lifau (Itmbal. ScaUnpEk 9KusIjtt00ms. j (Hrqmi^ jpanaire. Bcall^pEiJ o:0maf0E0. a^aricwt (Caljaclq l^ala (a SfuffEk (L0mat0its. Culir (2nti;cr). KatitE0uin*5 k’Elrfi- j CtjlEVH iPtquanfc. Eliaufe. i , tE0ma{0E£5 aux BEufa. | ‘ 1 hen came a dish of meat--natu7'e tink^iown, but supposed to be miscellaneous—singularly chopped up with crumbs of bread, seasoned u7iiquely though not unpleasantly, and baked hi n mould.' C. Bronte.ENTREES. E 49 ‘ The fish called the fiounder, perhaps you may knozv. Has one side for use and another for show ; lEntrees. jfisb pubMuQs* ALF a pound of cold salmon or any other cooked fish, a quarter of a pound of finely grated breadcrumbs, two ounces of butter, one small teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a small pinch of pounded mace ; white or cayenne pepper according to taste ; a quarter of a pint of cream or of white sauce (p. 9); two eggs. Pound, chop, or pass through a fine wire ‘ One side for the public, a delicate brown. And one that is white, xuhich he always keeps down.' O. W. Holmes.ENTREES. 50 ‘ What moistens the lip atid what brightens the eye. What calls back the past, like the rich pumpkin pie T Whittier. sieve the fish, according to whether the pud- dings are liked rough or smooth. Put the breadcrumbs to the fish. Add, in the follow'- ing order, the cream, anchovy, spice, and the eggs well beaten. Mix well together, and pour into a buttered mould. Cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. When served, pour fish sauce (p. 8) over it. pastry XentU IRollsC Half a pound of green lentils (French), three ounces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a dessertspoonful of chopped * In cooking lentils great care must be taken not to allow them to remain in any brass or copper vessel when removed from the fire, and no metal spoon should be used for stirring them. ‘ Ufttempted by the pastry-cooks, (Of pastry he got store within the palace)' Keats.ENTREES. E 2 51 ‘ He coztfde roste, and set/ie, and broil, and frie, Maken tnortreux and zvel bake a pie. ’ Chaucer. sage, onion and herbs, one egg, a teaspoonful of salt and pepper to taste. Put the lentils in a saucepan and cover with water. Add the salt. Boil for two hours, or until the lentils seem soft. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and beat up the lentils briskly with a wooden spoon, until quite smooth. Put the pan on the fire again ; add the breadcrumbs, butter, herbs, pepper, and lastly the egg beaten. Stir round quickly for a few seconds, that the egg may set but not curdle or ‘ break.’ Put the mixture on a plate to get cold. Have ready some puff-pastry cut into long squares; put on to these as much of the lentil paste as will allow the pastry to cover ‘. . . beasts of chase, or foivl of game In pastry built or frosn the spit or boiled.’’ Milton.ENTREES. 52 ‘ He hath bid me to a calf's-head and a capon' ‘Much Auo about Nothing.’ them when rolled up. Fasten the side and ends together by wetting them with a paste- brush. Bake in a hot oven ; dish up on a doily-covered dish and serve hot. The lentil mixture is better if made the day before it is wanted for the rolls, as it ‘lightens itself’ when made twelve or more hours. Creme C>e Dolaille» The breast of a large fowl, one egg, half a pint of thick cream, nutmeg, mace (optional); pepper and salt. Scrape the flesh off the breast of the fowl, pound it in a mortar and pass it through a wire sieve. Return it to the mortar and mix with it the egg, the cream, and the spices ‘ Such fiesh, fowl, and fishing. Such 'wailing and dishing, I cannot help 7vishing A 7Voman tnight sivear !'—Hood.ENTREES. 53 ‘ VVoiildst thou ivith mighty beef augment thy meal? Seek Leadenhall; St. Jatnes's sends thee veal.'—Gay. to taste. Butter a plain ring-shaped tin mould, pour into it the creme, cover with buttered paper, and steam very slowly for half an hour. Serve with a rich white sauce flavoured in the same way as the creme, and garnish with any green vegetable. This creme is almost equally good made of rabbit, and is more economical so made. Cabacte JBala (a Colb lEnttee), One pound of fillet of raw veal, half a pound of bacon, half a pound of breadcrumbs, the yolks of two eggs, grated lemon rind, nutmeg, cayenne ; pepper and salt. Scrape and pound well the veal with the ‘ A nd there. Merrily seated in a ring, partook A choice repast.'—Wordsworth.ENTREES 54 ‘ Your labouring people think beyoftd all question, Beef, veal, atid muttofi, better for digestion.' Byron. bacon, a little of the veal fat, and the bread- crumbs pressed dry. Mix in the yolks, the lemon-peel, and the spices. Bake or steam in a plain tin mould for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it out ; let it cool. Then brush it over with thin glaze. Cut into cutlet shapes it may be served with aspic jelly, or in small slices it makes a good mayonnaise. Prussian Cutlets, Half a pound raw veal, two to three ounces well-flavoured fat bacon, the yolks of two eggs, half an eschalot, a little chopped parsley; pepper and salt to taste. Pound the veal and bacon well together, ‘ Being used but sisterly salutes to feel. Insipid things—like sandwiches of veal' Hood.ENTREES. 55 ‘ Let them bring stomachs, there's no tuant of meat, sir. Portly and curious viands are prepa7-ed To please all kinds of appetites.'—Massinger. and pass them through a wire sieve. Add the parsley and eschalot. Prepare a good thick white sauce, put in the veal, bacon, pepper and salt. Stir over the fire for ten minutes, add the yolks of two eggs, put back on the fire and let boil a minute longer to set the egg. Spread out half an inch thick on a flat dish, and when cold cut out into cutlet shapes. Egg, breadcrumb, and fry in boiling lard. These cutlets are equally good as a hot entree, dished up round a pyramid of veget- ables with a brown gravy sauce ; or cold, served with Dutch or mayonnaise sauce. .16eef dollops a r^taltenne. One pound of tender lean rump-steak, one ‘ Alan is a carnivorous prodiiction. And fnust have i?ieals: at least one meal a day.' Byron.ENTREES. 56 ‘ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?' ‘ Taming of the Shrew.’ pint of brown stock, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, half an ounce of currants, six sweet almonds (blanched and cut into small thick pieces), six cloves, one bay- leaf, two teaspoonfuls of soy, a small onion (shred fine) ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut the rump-steak into pieces as nearly like cutlets as possible. Place these in a flat stewpan with the other ingredients. Simmer one hour. Dish the collops on a plateau of mashed potatoes. Remove the bay-leaf from the gravy and pour the latter over the collops. A thick piece of the top-side of the round, or a fillet of beef, may be braised with a similar gravy. ‘ The strong table groans Beneath the smoking sirloins stretched immense. ’ Thomson.ENTREES. 57 ‘ Oh, the monks of Melrose they made gnde kail On P'ndays when they fasted ; They never zvanted beef or ale As long as their neighbours' lasted,'—Old Ballad. Gibelotte of IRabMt One young rabbit, two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, two medium-sized onions sliced small, a tablespoonful of brown- ing ; pepper and salt. Put the butter into a stewpan with the onions, and fry until the onions are slightly brown. Cut the rabbit into small joints ; add these to the butter and onions. Fry until a light-brown colour, turning them round from time to time ; then scatter the flour over them in the pan, and add a pint of water, the browning, pepper and salt. Stew the rabbit slowly by the side of the fire until every piece is equally tender. Place the pieces on a dish ; boil up the gravy for a few ‘ What have we here? Stewed rabbit ?' Longfellow.ENTREES. 58 ‘ As in some Irish houses where things are so-so One gammon of bacon hangs up for a show.' Goldsmith. minutes to reduce the quantity and make it thicker ; then pour it over the rabbit and serve hot. Ikromeskics, A quarter of a pound of cold chicken or veal, a teaspoonful of white sauce or cream, lemon-rind, cold boiled fat bacon, batter. Pound the chicken or veal into a paste, with the grated lemon-rind ; pepper to taste. Add the white sauce or cream. Cut ten very thin slices, three inches long and two inches wide, of fat bacon, and lay them on a paste-board. Divide the pounded chicken into ten portions, and place one on each of the slices of bacon. Roll the bacon over the chicken, and press the edges well together. ‘ High o'er the hearth a chine of bacon hung ; Good old Philemon seized a prong, I hen cut a slice.' Dryden.ENTREES. 59 ‘ The rafters of the sooty roof Bore %vealth of^vinter cheer ; Of seafowl dried^ and solands store. And gammons of the tusky board—‘ Marmion.’ Place the kromeskies in a cool place until required. Then have ready some thin batter in a basin, and boiling lard in a saucepan. Dip the kromeskies into the batter, and then drop them into the lard. In two or three seconds they will be cooked ; lift them out with a fish-slice, and drain on a sieve before the fire. Care must be taken that the lard is the exact heat, or the kromeskies will have either a burnt or sodden appearance. Dish up on a doily, or embossed blotting- paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve as hot as possible. lEgg Dadoles, Four hard-boiled eggs and the raw yolks of two eggs in addition, five ounces of bread- ‘ At the top a fried bacon and liver were seen.’ Goldsmith.ENTREES. ‘ A joint of mutton ; mid any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William, cook.'—‘King Henry IV.’ crumbs, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, one tomato rubbed through a wire-sieve, a shred of fried onion, a saltspoonful of ragout and ‘ Herbaceous Seasoning ’ mixed, four tablespoonfuls of white sauce ; salt to taste. Chop the eggs fine, and mix with them all the other ingredients. Put the mixture into small cups or clariole-tins ; cover with but- tered paper, and steam for twenty minutes. Turn out and serve with white sauce fla- voured with a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, or, if fresh mushrooms can be obtained, cut these in small pieces and stew them in the sauce. Creme b’Hvoine* D, One quart of milk, three ounces of oat- ‘ My silver dishes for thy meat. As precious as the gods do eat, Shall on my ivory table be Prepared each day for thee and me. ’ Marlowe.ENTREES. ‘ The cream o’ the market. Provision enough to serve a garrison.’ Massinger. meal, two eggs, one ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream (or new milk), nut- meg, mace, and salt. Put a quart of milk into an iron saucepan, and when boiling stir into the milk the oat- meal. Boil slowly for an hour, stirring fre- quently. Next pass the porridge through a wire sieve, and mix with it the other in- gredients. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin mould, and cover over with paper. Steam slowly for half an hour. Turn out; serve with mushroom or bechamel sauce, and garnish with peas, French beans, or mush- rooms. IReapoUtan Ci’oquettes. ID* Three ounces of Naples macaroni, a quart ‘ Ami thus they hid adieu to carnal dishes. To solid meats and highly spiced ragouts’ Byron. 6iENTREES. 62 ‘ Your greatest waftt is, yoti want much of tjieat' ‘ Timon of Athens.’ of milk, one ounce of finely-chopped mush- rooms, fresh or dried, some vermicelli. Stew the macaroni in a pint and a half of milk until soft, then with a wooden spoon mash it into a pulp. Meanwhile cut the mushrooms fine, and simmer them for an hour in a gill of milk ; add the mushrooms and milk to the macaroni pulp, and allow it to cool on a plate. Take some puff-paste, roll it out very thin, and cut it into three-inch squares. Egg the edges of the squares, and then lay small pieces of the macaroni-pulp—pieces the size of a large walnut—in the centre of each. Fold the paste over diagonally, and tuck up the corners. Egg the outside of each croquette ‘ Nor shall rny meat come in sneaking, like the city-service, Otie dish a quarter of an hour after the other I Beaumont and Fletcher.ENTREES. 63 ‘ Now the festive board zvith viands is stored; Savoury dishes be there, 1 zveen.' ‘ Ingoldsby Legends.’ with yolk of egg, and sprinkle vermicelli over them. Fry in boiling lard until a light- brown colour, when remove with a fish-slice, and lay on kitchen paper to drain. Serve in a dish with a doily. Garnish with fried parsley. IReapoUtan Uimbal. One ounce of Naples macaroni, two ounces of mushrooms, one egg, nutmeg or mace, pepper and salt, three-quarters of a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of cream. Break the macaroni small, and put it with a pinch of salt and sufficient cold water to cover it in a saucepan. Boil for ten minutes, then strain the water off; add the milk (hot), and boil slowly until the macaroni is quite ‘ They carved at the meal With gloves of steel. And drank the red wine through the hebziet barr'd.' ‘Lay of the Last Minstrel.’ENTREES. 64 ‘ A table richly spread, in regal 7node, With dishes piled and meats of tiohlest sort And savour.'—Milton. soft. Remove it from the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon to reduce it to a pulp. Peel the mushrooms and cut them into thin slices ; add these, the egg. the spices, and the cream to the macaroni-pulp. Pour the mixture into a buttered china mould, and steam slowly for three-quarters of an hour. As a sauce for the above, stew the stalks and trimmings of the mushrooms in a pint of milk for two hours. Strain off the milk. Then put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan, and mix into it a teaspoonful of flour; add by degrees the flavoured milk, and sprinkle in a little salt. Stir over the fire till the thickness of a custard, when it is ready to serve. ‘ Man, Nature's guest by invitation S7veet, Receives from her both appetite and treat.' COWPER.ENTREES. 65 F ‘ The farma of beans and pease He has't in plenty.' Burns. Creme ponaire. ID. Half a pound of haricot beans, one large egg, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, lemon-rind, onion, nutmeg, mace, pepper and salt. Soak half a pound of haricot beans over- night in two quarts of cold water. In the morning drain the water from them, and put them into a saucepan with two quarts of water and a teaspoonful of salt. Let them boil quickly for six hours, then drain off the water, and pass through a hair-sieve into a basin. Add two ounces of melted butter, the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, mace, and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of cream in which a slice of ‘ ril end my exhortation after dintier.' ‘Merchant of Venice.’ENTREES. 66 ‘ Long let us walk Where the breeze blows from yoti extended field Of blossom'd beans.'—Thomson. onion has been soaked long enough to give it a slight flavour, lastly, one large egg well beaten. Beat these ingredients well together with a wooden spoon, and pour into a buttered mould. Cover the top over with kitchen-paper, and steam very slowly for half an hour. Remove the mould from the steamer five minutes before turning it out to allow the creme to set. Serve hot with white sauce. The creme can be served up a second time, either as a cold entree, covered with mayon- naise sauce, or it can be cut in slices, egg and breadcrumbed, and fried like cutlets. This dish is a good imitation of sweet- bread. ‘ A nd in his left he held a basket full Of all sweet herbs that searching eye could cull.' Keats.ENTRIES 67 F 2 ‘ Daniel ate pulse by choice—rare example ! Heaven blessed the youth and made him fresh and fair.' COWPER. UDaricot (T^l3acte :fiSala (a lEntree). ID. One pint white haricot beans, one ounce of bread, two ounces of butter, two eggs, ‘ Her- baceous Seasoning,’ lemon-rind, and nutmeg. Put the beans into a stewpan or earthen- ware stewpot, with a teaspoonful of salt and sufficient cold water to cover them. Simmer on a stove or in an oven till quite soft, when pass through a hair-sieve. Soak the bread in boiling water, and squeeze it dry in a cloth ; add this to the haricot-pulp, also the butter melted, the grated nutmeg and lemon, a little ‘ Herbaceous Seasoning,’ and two well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, cover over the top with paper, steam slowly for half an hour, turn it ‘ The dhiner waits, and we are tired.' COWPER.ENTREES. 68 ‘ And having beans and crumbs a?td oil securedd ‘The Spanish Gipsy.’ out of the mould, and let it cool. When cold, brush it over with thin glaze. Garnish with parsley and beetroot cut in fanciful shapes. CeleiT piquante. Two sticks of celery, two ounces of butter, the juice of half a small lemon, two table- spoonfuls of new milk or cream, half a tea- spoonful of flour, nutmeg, pepper and salt. Wash the celery, and dry it in a cloth, then cut it into two-inch lengths, taking care not to split the sticks. Put these pieces into a saucepan with the butter, lemon-juice, and spices to taste. Stew gently for two hours, then dredge in the flour, and give the sauce- pan a shake to thoroughly mix the flour ‘ Three several salads have I sacrificed^ Bedew'd with precious oil ajtd vi7iegar, Already to appease thy greedy wi-ath.' Beaumont and Fletcher.ENTREES. 69 ‘ Lo, here is fire, and lentils standing near, If there be need to sup I Aristophanes. among the celery. Add the milk or cream. Boil up, and serve immediately. N.B.—Great care must be taken that the celery does not cook too fast, or the butter will burn. This dish requires very delicate cooking. Xentil Steak, t). A teacupful of French or Egyptian lentils, three ounces of butter, three ounces of bread- crust, one egg, half a small onion, chopped parsley, and herbs.'"" Put the lentils into a saucepan with a tea- spoonful of salt and a pint and a half of boiling water. Boil quickly for one hour, * Those who cannot obtain fresh herbs may use Pannett, Neden and Co.’s ‘prepared herbs, mixed.’ ‘ Wei loved he gar like, onions and lekesd Chaucer.ENTRl^ES. 70 ‘ If Cotta lived on pulse, it was no more Than Brahma's saints and sages did beforel Pope. then draw the saucepan on one side and let the lentils simmer until all the water is absorbed. Remove the pan from the fire for a few minutes and beat up the lentils briskly with a wooden spoon until they are quite smooth ; then add two ounces of the butter melted (two tablespoonfuls of cotton- seed oil may be substituted for the butter), the onion and parsley chopped fine, the sweet herbs, and pepper to taste Soak the bread- crust in boiling water, and press it dry in a cloth. Mix the bread in, and, lastly, add the egg. Replace the saucepan on the fire for a minute to set the egg, then pour the contents on a flat dish to cool. When cold and firm enough, shape the lentil-paste into a steak of ‘ Hold ! take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.' ‘ Romeo and Juliet.’ENTRIES. 71 ^ A/nidst this tumult offish, flesh and fowl, A nd vegetables all in masquerade. ’ Byron. three-quarters of an inch thick, and place it carefully with an egg-slice in a frying-pan with one ounce of butter. Fry the steak for half an hour, turning it over once during the time with the slice. When a nice brown on both sides, lift the steak with the slice on to the dish. Garnish with fried potato-chips. Lentil gravy may be poured round, as an addition, and horseradish shavings scattered on the top of the steak. XentU Cutlets* ID* Half a pound of Egyptian lentils, one ounce of butter, two ounces of bread, one egg, a little chopped onion, half a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs. ‘ The waiters they skip and they scuttle about. And the landlord attends us so civilly out.'ENTREES. 72 ‘ Erudite cutlets dressed all ways but plain.'’ Moore. Put the lentils into a saucepan with a quart of water and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil quickly for three hours, stirring occasionally, as they are apt to burn. When all the water has been absorbed, remove the saucepan from the fire. Stir quickly into the lentils the bread (previously soaked in boiling water and squeezed dry), the butter (melted), the onion and sweet herbs, and the egg (well beaten). Put the saucepan back on the fire, and stir for a few minutes for the egg to set; then turn out the mixture on a flat dish to cool. When cold and firm, shape into small cutlets, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in the usual manner. ‘ This night I hold a long accustomed feast. ’ ‘Romeo and Juliet.’ENTREES. 73 ‘ The simple olives, best allies of wine, Must 1 pass over in my bilt of fare P Byron. Xentil Collops, ID, These are made of the same mixture as the steak, but, instead of being fried in one piece, it is made up into six or seven round cakes about an inch thick. These, after being fried, can be served up with lentil gravy and finely-chopped olives, with tomato sauce, or with a piquante sauce flavoured with pickled walnuts. Xentil Ci'dne, ID, Half a pint of lentils, one pint of water, three ounces of bread, one ounce of butter, one egg, nutmeg, pepper and salt, one tablespoon- ful of cream. Wash the lentils, put them into a saucepan ‘ With olives evergreen the ground is strewed.' Dryden.ENTRIES. 74 W sliced the luncheon frojn the barley loaf. With crumbled bread I thickened well the mess.'' Gay. with the cold water and a pinch of salt. Let them cook slowly for one hour, when draw them to the side of the stove for half an hour to let the water dry off. Press the lentils through a wire sieve, using an iron spoon ; add the bread which has been soaked in water and pressed dry, a little grated nutmeg and pepper, butter and cream, also the egg well beaten up. Butter a plain mould, stir the mixture last thing, pour it into the mould, filling it three-quarters full. Cover with kitchen-paper, and steam for half an hour slowly. Before turning out, let it stand for five minutes to give it time to set. Croquettes of Xentils. ID. Half a pound of French (green) lentils, a ‘ Cabbages, sweet cabbages, April's loveliest gift I guess' Thackeray.ENTRIiES. 75 ‘ But from the mountain's grassy side A guiltless feast I bring, tomato, an onion, a teaspoonful of chopped sage, two ounces of butter, an egg, pepper and salt. Boil the lentils for two hours; drain over a wire-sieve. When the water has drained off, place the sieve over a basin, and with a spoon mash the lentils through. Chop the onion fine, and fry it with half the butter in a small saucepan. When it is a nice brown colour, take it from the fire, and measure out a dessertspoonful of it. To this add the tomato and sage finely chopped. Mix these ingredi- ents with the mashed lentils, adding pepper and salt and the remaining butter, and set the basin aside. When the mixture is cold and firm, take out rather more than a dessert- ‘ A scrip with herbs and fruit supplied, A nd water from the spring.' Goldsmith.ENTREES 76 ‘ Whilst with logs Crackled the fire, and seem'd the very pot spoonful at a time; mould it into good-sized balls. Egg and breadcrumb, and fry in a basket as for ‘ Savoury Cones.’ Savoury Cones, D, Three ounces of Carolina rice, one pint of milk, two ounces of butter, one onion, one tomato, a teaspoonful of chopped sage, one egg, pepper and salt. Boil the rice in the milk until it is soft and has absorbed the milk. Chop the onion fine, and fry it in one ounce of butter until it is a nice brown colour ; add the fried onion and butter, the tomato and sage chopped fine, pepper and salt to the rice. Boil together for five minutes, stirring meanwhile with a ‘ To bubble in a hospitable hurry. That I might sup betimes,' Sir Henry Taylor.ENTREES. 77 ‘ Supper was shortly dight, and doivne they satt; Where they were served with all sut>iptnot(s fare.' Spenser. wire whisk. Remove the pan from the fire, turn the rice into a basin to cool. Before it is quite cold, take out a dessertspoonful at a time, lay it on a board, and shape like a cone. When all are shaped, brush them over with yolk of egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and place them in a frying-basket. Have ready a saucepan half full of boiling fat or oil, test its heat, and, if right, put in the basket with the cones. Directly they turn a pale-brown colour, draw the saucepan from the fire, lift out the basket, and place it on a sieve to drain. Take out the cones carefully, and dish up hot on a doily. If liked, tomato sauce or a savoury gravy can be served with them. ‘ Rice—what will this sister of mine do with rice ? But my father hath made her mistress of the feast, A nd she lays it on.' ‘Winter’s Tale.’ENTRIES. 78 ‘ Yet we must eat and drink as you say.’ Clough. SSarle^ Cutlets. ID. Half a pint of pearl-barley, three pints of cold water, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of herbs (mixed), rind and juice of half a lemon, half a tea- spoonful of ragout seasoning, one ounce of breadcrumbs, salt and pepper to taste, one egg- Soak the barley overnight in the water. The next morning put it in a saucepan on the fire with the herbs, lemon-peel chopped fine, and the seasoning ; simmer for four hours, stirring often with a wooden spoon. Draw the pan from the fire, and stir in the lemon-juice, breadcrumbs, and egg well beaten. ‘ Thy care is, under polish’d tins. To serve the hot-and-hot’ Tennyson.ENTREES. 79 ‘ We^ll live all the xvinter on beef and lang kail, And feast tipon bannocks of barley xneall ‘Scottish Ballads,’ Place it on the fire again for fifteen minutes to set the egg, and stir it all the time to prevent its burning; pour the mixture an inch thick on a dish to cool. When cold and firm, cut it out in the shape of veal cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, fry in a frying-pan with butter until a nice brown colour, turning them once or twice. Serve with slices of lemon-peel, and with brown vegetarian gravy in a tureen. (Siuenelles a la 5arMmere/ t). Three ounces of semolina, one ounce of breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, one and * See page i8, for jardiniere sauce. ‘The King. Dear uncle, luhat's o'clock ? Bou RBON. ’ Tis 110071, sweet cousin. The King. I xvafit my dinner.' Sir Henry Taylor.ENTRIES. ‘ Stl down and feed, and ioelco?ne to our tabled ‘As You Like It.’ a half pints of milk, two well-beaten eggs, one shallot, one blade of mace, pepper and salt to taste. Put the milk in a saucepan with the mace and shallot. When this boils, take out the shallot and mace, and add the semolina, stirring all the time. Boil for half an hour, remove from the fire, add the rest of the ingredients, mix thoroughly, pour into a buttered basin, which cover with kitchen- paper, and steam half an hour. Put it aside in a cold place till firm. When wanted, cut it out with a dessertspoon into quenelles, place them in a cool oven or before the fire to heat through, but not brown. When they are ready, dish them in a circle or ‘ Who their virtues can declare who fierce. With vision puj-e, uito those secret stores fte7'bs~\ Of health and life a7id joy—the food of 77ian, While yet he lived m i7inoce7ice.'—Thomson. 8oENTREES. ‘ Cook, by the way, came tip to-day To bid me suit myself. a pyramid, and pour over them jardiniere sauce. IRtce Cutlets. ID. Three ounces of Carolina rice, one pint of milk, one ounce of brown or white bread- crumbs, half a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, onion, and thyme, one egg, half an ounce of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Put the rice and milk into a saucepan, and stew gently. When the rice is quite soft, take the pan from the fire, and add the butter melted, an egg well beaten, and the other ingredients. Return the pan to the fire, and stir for five minutes to set the egg ; turn the mixture out on a flat dish to cool. When cold, shape into cutlets, egg and breadcrumb ‘ And what do you think? The rats have gnaw'd The victuals on the shelf!' Hood. 8i GENTREES. 82 ‘ It was, in fact, a goodly stew, . . . boiled in a large mess with potatoes, onions, and leeks'—ScOTT. them, and fry in boiling oil. Serve with tomato or any other piqiiante sauce. Count IRumfort) IfDasb. ID. One packet of Count Rumford soup- powder, six large potatoes, one ounce of butter, half an onion. Boil the potatoes in their skins for twenty minutes ; peel them carefully, and cut them into slices half an inch thick. Put these into a saucepan with one ounce of butter and the onion in slices, scatter the Count Rumford soup-powder over them ; add salt to taste, and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Simmer for one hour, then dish the potatoes ‘ Who'd expect to see a tater All on end at bein' biled?' Lowell.ENTREES, 83 G 2 ‘ His garment suas a top-coat, and an old one ; His meal was a potato, and a cold one. ’ Scott. carefully in the centre of a hot dish, pouring the sauce round them. ©cuts auj pettts ipois* Four eggs, half a pint of young green peas, a sprig of mint, two tablespoonfuls of milk, two ounces of butter, salt and pepper. Put the eggs with the mint and salt into boiling water, and boil until tender ; drain off the water, but keep the peas warm. Beat up the eggs well with the pepper and a little salt; add the milk and peas. Whilst beating the eggs, melt the butter in an omelette or frying pan, and when the butter is hot, pour in the eggs and milk, stirring rapidly with an iron spoon until the eggs are set. This will ‘ And even green peas, 7vken they 'were not too dear' Ingoldsry.ENTREES. 84 ‘ This cooking ? ifs messing ! The spinach wants pressing. And salads in dressing Are best with good eggs.'—Hood. be in from three to five minutes’ time ; great care must be taken not to let the eggs burn, or become too solid. They can be served either on hot buttered toast, or plain, like a soft omelette. This dish may be varied by substituting boiled asparagus-heads for the peas ; but when asparagus is used the mint and pepper should be omitted. Casseroles. Half a pound of ground rice, two ounces ol butter, one quart of water, one egg, a few breadcrumbs, and salt to taste. Put the water in a saucepan on the fire, and, when it is boiling, stir the rice in gradu- ‘ And so, she cooked their breakfast to a tittle.' P)YRON.ENTREES. 85 ‘ “ /«faith," sayd the kinsf, “ I never befo7-e eat so damtye a thing." ’ ‘ Percy Reliques,’ ally, and add the salt. Boil together for ten minutes, or until the rice is thick and firm, then add the butter, and boil for five minutes longer. Pour the mixture on a flat dish, and spread it two inches thick. When nearly cold, cut it out into casseroles with a cutter two or three inches deep, and one and a half inches in diameter. Dip this frequently into water whilst cutting, so that the rice may not stick to it and be pulled out of shape. Egg and breadcrumb each casserole, and place them in a cool place until required for dishing up; then place them carefully in a frying- basket and fry them in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Remove a large piece of the middle out of each casserole, and ‘ Aiid few themselves the savoury boon deny-- The food that feeds, the living luxury. ’ Crarbe.ENTREES. 86 ‘ On holy-days an egg or t7vo at most; Blit her ambition never reach'd to roast.' Dryden. arrange them side by side on a dish covered with a doily. Pour into them just before sending them to table a fricassee of any kind of meat or poultry minced fine. For vege- tarians, mushrooms can take the place of meat and butter of the fat. Sprigs of fried parsley may be laid on the top of each casserole, and round the dish. Stuffeb Cucumbers. The quantity of stuffing required will depend on the number of pieces of cucumber served in the dish. The proportion of in- gredients is as follows: Two tablespoonfuls of fine breadcrumbs, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and mixed herbs, one ounce ‘ IJow cucumbers along the surface creep, With crooked bodies.' Dryden.ENTREES. 87 ‘ Pant for the praise of dressing to the taste Of critic appetite, no sordidfare, A cucumber.'—Cowpkr. of butter, a little grated nutmeg and salt, one teaspoonful of chilli-vinegar. Mix these ingredients thoroughly in a basin. Peel one or more cucumbers, and cut up in lengths of two or three inches. (In peeling, the greatest care must be taken that none of the green rind remains on the cucumber, as the smallest piece when cooked will render the whole dish bitter and unpalat- able.) Cut out the seeds with an apple-corer, and then put the pieces into boiling water with a pinch of salt ; simmer for half an hour or more, according to the thickness of the cucumber. When tender, take out the pieces and let them drain. When they are cold and firm enough, fill with the stuffing, and braise ‘ The smell of apples, aromas from crushed sage-plant, mint. . . .’ Walt Whitman.ENTREES. 88 ‘ There xvas each dish prepared xvith skill t' invite^ And to detain the struggling appetite.' Crabbe. in a thick gravy for ten or fifteen minutes. Keep them hot until ready to serve, when dish them carefully, lifting out each piece of cucumber separately with a fish-slice, and standing it upright in the dish. Pour the gravy over immediately before sending to table, for if the pieces soak long in it they will become soft, and fall. If this dish is required for vegetarians, the following gravy can be substituted for the meat one : A quarter of a pint of the water in which the cucumber was boiled, one and a half ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of Hour to thicken it, a teaspoonful of soy, or any bottled sauce preferred, and salt to taste. ‘ Who xvould suppose, from Adam's simple ration. That cookexy could have called forth such resources As form a sciexice and a nomc7tclature From out the comtnonest demands of nature?'ENTREES. 89 ‘ But all search For agarics ; which, humbler in their groivth And less rencnvned in song, yet most delicious Are, whether they be eaten fresh, or salted.'—Mickiewicz. Stuffed /IDusbrooms.* D. Twelve fresh mushrooms, in size not less than two inches across, one ounce of bread- crumbs, one and a half ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of parsley and thyme, a teaspoon- ful each of tomato-sauce, mushroom-ketchup, pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste, the yolk of one egg. Peel the mushrooms carefully, so as not to destroy the edges ; cut the stalks close off. Chop up the stalks, and mix with them breadcrumbs, parsley, thyme, pepper, salt, and mace, and lastly add the sauces. Put * Care should be taken to have the mushrooms fresh gathered, as otherwise they are not easy of digestion. ‘ “ Prepare, then, a feast, and none of the least, lor we will be merry f quoth he.' ‘ Robin Hood.’ENTREES. 90 ‘ The hiunble mushroom scarcely known.' Drydrn. this Stuffing into a saucepan with half the butter, and fry a light-brown colour, stirring it that all may be equally cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the yolk of the egg as the mixture is cooling. Place the mushrooms top downwards in a baking-tin, with a tablespoonful of water ; fill each mush- room with the stuffing, then, having divided the remainder of the butter into twelve pieces, put a piece on each mushroom. Place the baking-tin in a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes, or until the mushrooms are of a light-brown colour. Serve on circles, or squares, of buttered toast, or fried bread. The gravy in the baking-tin should be poured over the whole immediately before ‘ And the chattering girls are all lock'd up ; And the wriiikled old abbess is gone to sup On mushrooms and sweet muscadel.'—Praei).ENTRIES. 91 » ‘ They from their noisy breakfast Went forth unto the solemn ceremony Of mushroom-gathering. ’ Mickiewicz. going to table, as the excellency of this entree depends on its being served hot. Scalloped /iDusbrooms. ID. Peel and cut into slices some fresh mush- rooms,"' chopping the stalks up with a little parsley, pounded mace, pepper and salt, and a dessertspoonful of breadcrumbs. If two scallop-tins are to be filled, breadcrumbs sufficient to fill one will be the quantity needed. Butter the scallop-tins well, and line with a thin coating of breadcrumbs ; next add a thick layer of mushrooms, with a sprinkling of the chopped stalks and spices. * The number of mushrooms required depends on their size, and must be left to the judgment of the cook. ‘ U RSRL. He will be here for his breakfast anon. Van Rvk. And call you this his breakfast ?’ Sir Henry Taylor.ENTREES. 92 ‘ A nd luhere, on its bed, On the orchard's black mould, the love-apple Lies pulpy and red.' Robert Browning. Over this put a layer of breadcrumbs, and half a dozen pieces of butter the size of a nut on the top of it ; another layer of mushrooms and of bread will probably fill the tins. Two or three pieces of butter the size of walnuts will be required on the top before the scallop is put in the oven to bake. To be baked in a hot oven for ten minutes, and served very hot. Scalloped) XTomatoes. ID. Peel the tomatoes, and cut them into very thin slices. Butter one or more scallop-tins, put a layer of breadcrumbs at the bottom of the tin, with small pieces of butter on the top, then a layer of the sliced tomatoes, then breadcrumbs with the butter again, and so ‘ They sought green salads, luhich they bade them eat, A sovereign rerricdy for inward heat.' Drvden.ENTREES. 93 ‘ Dishes alike delightful and digestible. ’ Leigh Hunt. on until the tin is filled up. The top layer should be of breadcrumbs, with the small pieces of butter. Sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste. Bake in a hot oven for about half an hour, or until they are nicely browned. Serve in the tins on a napkin. Stuffeb XTomatocs, Scoop out part of the inside of twelve tomatoes, and chop it fine with a little ham, an ounce of breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste ; fill the tomatoes with this stuffing ; lay a small piece of butter on each. Put a tablespoonful of water into a baking-tin, and bake the tomatoes in it in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Dish them in a circle, and pour their own gravy over them. ‘ A rat-tat-too o' knives an' forks, a clinkty-clink o' glasses' Lowell.ENTREES. 94 ‘ I have, S7veet wench, a piece of cheese. As good as tooth may chawed ‘ Percy Reliques.’ IRainequins C)’Hrticbauts. Two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, two tablespoonfuls of cream, two of grated Par- mesan cheese or breadcrumbs. Boil the artichokes for half an hour, mash them with a fork, and beat up with two table- spoonfuls of cream ; season with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into ramequin-cases, ora gratin-dish, and cover the top with grated cheese or breadcrumbs. Bake till a nice brown crust is formed. tomatoes auj ©cuts* Six tomatoes, one egg, one ounce of butter. Cut the tomatoes in two, lay the halves, with a small piece of butter on each, in a ‘ A piece of Suffolk cheese or gammon of bacon, or any esculentd Massinger.ENTREES. ‘ / love uo roast, but a nut-hroxv7i toast. And a crab laid in the fii'e ; A little bread shall do fue stead. Much bread I do not desire. ’—^JOHN Still (1543-1607). shallow dish, and bake twenty minutes. Pre- pare square pieces of buttered toast, and make some scrambled egg of the consistency of clotted cream ; place the tomatoes on the toast, and cover with little pyramids of the scrambled egg. ‘ A nd after that they ycde about gaderuig Pleasatmt salades which they made hem eat. For to 7'efresh their great unkindly heat.' Chaucer.H 97 ‘ To the house of a friend if you're pleased to retire, You must all things adttiit, you must all things admire ; antiMlacaxttmi an ©itatin. »H)tnfxtr i^atixrmtji 0f HRacartmt. Cliecsx^ ipurritrgtt. CCauItlluittett iinf f| (t Sauce* (!II|cesB Wafers. CIl^csc i^^astcQ. Sfuflfing. Canapes Supreme, ipuifetr Bi’ans. Saltmirp Eenfils* Satrmipp Sptnacl|. ‘ Yoti ?nust pay with observance the price of your treat. You must eat svhat is praised, and nmst praise 7vhat you eat.' Crabbe.SAVOURIES. H 2 99 ‘ / hae a cheese upon my shelf, Lass, gin ye lo'e 7ne, tell me notv' ‘Scottish Songs.’ Savouliea, XTomatoes anb /IDacaroin an 6ratin. OUR ounces of Naples macaroni, three or four large tomatoes, a tablespoonful of grated Par- mesan and common cheese mixed, one ounce of butter (exclusive of that used for buttering the dish), pepper and salt to taste. ‘ Where so ready all nature its cookery yields, Alacaroni an Parmesan " grozvs hi the fields.' Moore.SAVOURIES. ‘ A fine dhiney- Tvas drest, both for him and his guest. He was placed at the table above all the rest.' ‘ Percy Reliques.’ Boil the macaroni in water until it is quite tender, drain it on a sieve, butter a shallow pie-dish, or a deep fire-proof entree-dish, and place a layer of macaroni at the bottom ; fill up with alternate layers of sliced tomatoes and macaroni, scattering the grated cheese between the layers. In the middle and on the top layer, which should be of tomatoes, put small pieces of butter, with a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven, and serve at once. Minter Savoury of H)ricb peas. One pint and a half of dried green peas, one ounce and a half of breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of chopped ‘ O Hesperus ! thou bringest all good things, Hotne to the weary, to the Jmngry cheer.' Byron. lOOSAVOURIES. ‘ / had rather have a handful or two of dried peas. ’ ‘Midsummer Night’s Dream.’ mint, green or dried, one lump of sugar, one egg, a little salt. Boil the peas in three pints of water with the mint, sugar, and salt until they are quite soft, then strain through a wire sieve, putting aside the liquor, and passing the peas through the sieve with a wooden spoon. To this pea- puree add the butter melted, the breadcrumbs, the egg well beaten, and the mint; pour this into a buttered mould, and steam for half an hour. Sauce to be served round the creme can be made of the liquor in which the peas were boiled, thickened with half a teaspoonful of arrowroot, and flavoured with mint. Either two or three tablespoonfuls of cream or a ‘ The cheese my daily fare, which Mary made. For Mary knew full well the housewife's trade.' Southey. lOISAVOURIES. 102 ‘ Digestive cheese, andfrtiit there sure 7vill be. ’ Ben Jonson. piece of butter the size of a nut should be mixed with the sauce immediately before it is required to pour over the mould. This dish may be made in summer of fresh peas, but when these are used the sugar should be omitted. This, when cold, can be used for mayon- naises when cut in large dice ; or can be spread on anchovy or cheese toasts, and served hot. Cheese /Ihaearont. Put a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and half a teaspoonful of salt ; boil until quite soft, then turn it out on a sieve to drain. When required to serve, ‘ Here are unsparing cheeses of pressed milk.' Shelley.SAVOURIES. 103 ‘ But now the supper crcnvtis their simple board. The hale some parritch, chief of Scotia's food.’ Burns. it must be mixed with cheese-sauce (p. 20) and sent to table hot. Cbeese porribge. Three ounces of Patna rice, a pint of cold water, salt to taste. Boil ten minutes from the time it begfins to boil, drain it through a sieve, rinse it with cold water, and when required for the table stir it into as much cheese-sauce (p. 20) as will make it into a soft porridge. Cauliflower with Cbeese Sauce. Boil a close and fine cauliflower quite soft, drain it, and place it on the dish on which it will be sent to table. Keep it hot until ‘ Some bring a capon, some a rtirall cake. Some mits, some apples ; some that think they make The better cheeses, bring the7n.' Ben Jonson.SAVOURIES 104 ‘ Boy, tell the cook that I hate all knick-knackeries— Fricassees, vol-an-vents, puffs, andgirn-crackeries.’ Moorf.. required to serve, when pour over it some cheese sauce (p. 20). Cbeese Mafets. Twelve wafer biscuits, two ounces grated Parmesan cheese, ounce of butter, cayenne and mustard. Mix the grated cheese well with the butter, a little cayenne-pepper and mustard ; spread this cheese-paste over the biscuits. Put them on a baking-sheet, and bake for five minutes in a hot oven. Serve on a napkin, and shake a little dry grated cheese over them before sending to table. Cbeese pastry. Half an ounce of Naples macaroni, half ‘ The dame brings forth, in complimental mood. To grace the lad, her weel-hained kebbuck fell. And aft he's pressed, and aft he ca's it gude.' Burns.SAVOURIES. 105 ‘ Then an ei^g for your supper, ivith lettuces white.' Lick; 11 Hunt. an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and half an ounce of English or American cheese, the yolk of one egg, a pint of milk, a tablespoon- ful of cream, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, mustard and pepper. Stew the macaroni in the milk until quite soft, pass it through a wire sieve, and then mix with it the grated cheese, a little mustard and cayenne-pepper, the yolk of an egg, and the cream. Make the pastry of the butter and flour, and roll it into a square the sixth of an inch thick ; place it on a baking-sheet, and bake. When this is done, take it from the oven, spread the cheese-paste over it, and put it back in the oven for three minutes just to give it time to heat through and to set the ‘ Brown bread, and milk {but first she skimmed her bonds). And rashers of singed bacon on the coals.' Dryden.SAVOURIES. ‘ You'll have dumplings, PFoodcock, and buttered toasts, too' Massinger. egg ; cut it into strips three-quarters of an inch wide, and three inches long. Serve very hot; garnish with chopped olives. Chestnut Stuffing. Two dozen and a half chestnuts, a quarter of a pound of good-flavoured fat bacon, two ounces of butter (melted), two eggs, milk, grated rind of a lemon, nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste. Blanch the chestnuts, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient milk to cover them ; let them simmer until quite tender. Drain the milk from them, put them in a mortar with the other ingredients, and pound well ‘ He daily took but 07te half-hour to dine. Oft one poor dish, and some three sips of wine. ’ Crabbe. io6SAVOURIES. 107 '‘His soups scientific—his fishes quite prime— His pates superb—and his cutlets sublime.' Moore. together. Six Brazil nuts can be used in O place of the bacon. Canapes Supreme. Toast pieces of white bread two inches and a half square by one-third of an inch thick; butter them whilst hot, and spread them with a thin layer of anchovy paste. Cover this with a slice a quarter of an inch thick of potted beans,^ and serve hot. Instead of anchovy-paste, grated Parmesan and common cheese may be scattered thickly over the layer of potted beans, only in this case the canapes should be placed in the * See ‘Potted Beans,’ p. 108. ‘ While from her lap She pours ten thousand delicacies—herbs And fruits, as numerous as the drops of rain.' Thomson.SAVOURIES. About the hall the scullions ran 7vith meats both fresh and potted.' Thackeray. oven for two or three minutes before they are dished up. potteb :fi3eans» Quarter of a pound white haricot beans, three ounces of butter, a taste of pounded mace, a little grated lemon-rind, pepper and salt. Soak the beans overnight in water. The following morning drain them, and put them in a saucepan with the water and salt ; boil five or six hours, or until quite soft; pass them through a hair sieve into a basin, and add the butter, mace, and pepper. Mix the butter with the bean-mash whilst it is warm, and then pot it down tightly in a glass pot ‘ The happy tailor quits his goose To riot on his beans. ’ O. W. Holmes. io8SAVOURIES. 109 ‘ My spice-box, gentle/nen. And put in some of this, the 7natter's ended' Beaumont and Fletcher. for table, or in a shallow dish. If wanted for table, some clarified butter should be run over the top of it. Put it in a cold place for twelve hours, when it will be ready for use. Savoury Xentils. Half a pint of French (green) lentils, one quart of water, one ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, pepper if liked. Simmer the lentils for two hours In the salt and water ; drain, and return them to the saucepan with the butter. Simmer them for five minutes, shaking the pan frequently that the butter may be equally distributed. Serve hot. ‘^His 7iior7iing i7ieal was done, but still The table stood before hmi, cha7'ged with food— A side of roasted sheep, a7id cakes of bread. And dark g7-ee7i Matt HEW Arnold.SAVOURIES, ''It'spoor eating where the Jla%!our o' the meat lies i' the cruets.' ChORGE Eliot. Savoury? Spinacb. One teacupfu], or half a pound in weight, of boiled spinach passed through a sieve, two ounces of butter, two ounces of grated Cheshire or American cheese, one ounce of Parmesan, pepper and salt to taste, a small pinch of bicarbonate of potash. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add the spinach, cheese, pepper and salt; boil for five minutes, or until the cheese is dissolved, stirring all the time. Have ready on a dish some thin toast, buttered and cut in squares. Immediately before serving on the toast, and whilst the spinach is at boiling-heat, sprinkle the potash amongst it ; spread thickly on the toast, and serve as hot as possible. ‘ "Thanks, father, for thy bounteous fare," The youthful couple say ; Then freely ate, and made good cheer. And talked their cares away.'—‘ Percy Reliques.’ I lo111 ‘ Ajid now the S7veets and fuddings are come, of which / ca^i give you a list if you liked—Thackeray. Hittrmitxwf Cup-^ub- Muixs. iillxmf 33Iaitc ipxitiMng (txTitj). [^tn0. Carajnel Citsfarb jputi- OiitJt0cr Cljncitratc pu^l^i^0. 3iri>uii| ^autakcs. (CI|csier pukktug. put»t>in0. CakentriT Cart Ms. 3ftntu0 fmt Ctirrsi^- taUx|s ank CxJk*intri| Cart Ms. Bu0rt putikut0s. Btmsnk Custarir jpxik- paiu tj’jHtTx^irst. [Mu0. BrtTsnstjirc Jxmkx^t. Xxnnxm Cxistaxtks. 3E?rmslma a la JFvan- raisr. JPanksmsrtri Smxtt'txir. OlU'fsxtm Cakixtx^t puk- ktU0. pixim pxikktJtix (‘ Ctjr iPrrfcrt ilDay’). Balu'k Csrsaxxut pitk- kin0. [ipiitikixi0. aiiiirrn sf tl|c^ ^ri’au Xrxusn (talk). Hii0rak. Oltasr^ Btancmaxt0c. SuaixT Hirr. Capiaca a3tajtcmait0r. Birtial’s Blaxmnaii0C. (!i)in0rxt Cream, aiixicrn’s Birr. 9J5ararani Brakrsijxtr. Bp^iatt j^ra-tlrrl^in. Cup Birr ?Put»tvm0s. at)at‘tr pukkiups. Irnuni Crrams. Hirrtar JfiUuumrpK. Prunr JrUir. Jtaliau Curiis. Jrr> i?auit’trr axxk Eis- rxiits (©tarr^s. Jrr^k Cakiurt piikkiit0. '‘All kinds of dainties, and delicates siveete Were brought for the banquet, as it was inost meete.' ‘ Percy Reliques.’SWEETS. ‘ Look to your roast and bak'd meats handsomely. And what new kickshaius and delicate-made things.' Beaumon'1 and Fletcher. Sweets. '■ - Hrrowroot OUR ounces of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of arrowroot, two ounces of flour, two eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add the in- gredients in the following order: sugar, eggs— one at a time—arrowroot, flour; beat together for at least ten minutes. Put the mixture ‘ There were such various and suggestive scents, as of plumcakes in the oven, and jellies in the hot state, mingled with the aroma of gravy, that it ivas impossible to feel altogether gloomy: there 7vas hope in the air'—G. Eliot. ISWEETS. ‘ Ye tight little fairy, just fresh fro7n the dairy. Will ye give me some crea/u if I ask it T Keats. into small cups, or dariole-moulds buttered ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve with fruit-syrup or custard round them. These puddings, when cold, can be eaten as cakes, or with the middle scooped out, filled up with half a teaspoonful of jam, and covered with whipped cream, serve as a cold sweet. /iDont iBlanc ipubbiuG (col^)» Fruit, bread, powdered sugar. Stew some raspberries and a few currants with sufficient white sugar to sweeten them ; pour them into a dish or basin, and soak some slices of white bread a quarter of an inch thick in this. Line a moderate-sized 'For they all eat cold dimiei'S on a Sunday.' Hood.SWEETS. ‘ Caliban, Fll pluck thee berries' ‘ Tempest.’ basin with slices of the soaked bread, pour in some of the stewed fruit, cover that with a layer of the bread, add fruit again, and so on until the basin is full. Cover the top with a slice of unsoaked bread, place in a cool place, lay a plate on the top, on which put a half- pound weight. By this pressure the bread and fruit will be thoroughly incorporated, and after four or five hours the pudding can be turned out on a glass dish. Pour a little fruit- juice over it, and just before sending it to table cover it with white whipped cream. Fresh fruit is best for this pudding, but when this is out of season, bottled currants and raspberries, or jam dissolved in warm water, can be used to soak the bread. ‘ The golden grain, bright fruits. Sweet herbs which groiv for all, the waters wan. Sufficient drinks and meats. ’ Edwin Arnold.SWEETS. '‘With sev rail dishes standing by, As here a custard, there a pie,'' ‘ Old English Ballads.’ Caramel Custarb Two ounces of loaf sugar, half a gill of water, three-quarters of a pint of milk pre- viously scalded* and become cold, two large eggs, enough butter to butter the mould. Put the sugar and water in a saucepan, and boil quickly until the syrup is a bright orange colour and somewhat thick. When it becomes this colour, and before it has time to darken and turn into a brittle toffy, pour some of it into the bottom of the mould, and let it cool. Whilst the caramel is setting in the mould, put the milk into the saucepan in which the * Milk that has been boiled and has become cold is less likely to curdle when making custard puddings than unboiled milk. ‘ They gather, they gather hot custards in spoons.' ‘ Rehearsal.’SWEETS. ‘ Let Jane have her fruit and her custard.' Ingoldsby. caramel has been prepared, and boil it. Remove it from the fire, and when it has slightly cooled, mix the beaten eggs into it, and pour the whole into the mould. Cover this with paper, and steam very slowly for half an hour. Leave the pudding in the mould five minutes before turning out, as this reduces the risk of its falling flat. Mix two or three tablespoonfuls of the caramel with a little hot water, and serve round the pudding as sauce. A teaspoonful of orange- flower water can be added. Oinoer pubMng, Four ounces of brown-bread crusts, three ounces of finely chopped suet, one ounce of ‘ Yes, by St. Anne ! and ginger shall be hot in the mouth too !" ‘Twelfth Night.’SWEETS. ‘ It fell about the Martinmas tune. And a gay tune it rvas then. When our gudewife got puddings to mak', And she boiled them in the pan.'' ‘ Barrin’ of the Door.’ brown sugar, one ounce of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of powdered ginger, one tablespoonful of treacle, one egg, candied peel, a dozen stoned raisins. Soak in cold water for six or eight hours the brown-bread crusts ; drain off the water and squeeze the crusts as dry as possible in a cloth. Put the bread into a basin, add the suet, the sugar, the chopped raisins, the ginger, the treacle, and the egg well beaten; mix these well together. Butter and ornament a round basin with strips of candied peel and stoned raisins, and pour the mixture into it. Tie a cloth loosely over the top, and boil or steam for three hours. Serve with fruit-sauce. ‘ He spake of feasting such as never boy. Taught in his school, was fated to enjoy. Crabbe. Il8SWEETS. ‘ In /times of bunting chocolate shall glow. And tremble at the sea that froths below.' Poi’E. Cbocolate ipubbino* One and a half ounces of ‘ chocolat Menier’ grated, three-quarters of a pint of milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful of milk. Mix the chocolate smoothly with the table- spoonful of milk ; pour on to this the three- quarters of a pint of milk boiling, and mix well together. Boil quickly for five or six minutes, by which time the chocolate will be dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire, and when it has cooled a few minutes, add the eggs well beaten previously. Pour the custard into a buttered mould, cover the top with kitchen- paper, twisting this tightly round the sides, and steam slowly for half an hour if in a metal ‘ Lord Henry has discuss'd his chocolate.' Byron.SWEETS. 120 ‘ A certain knight swore by his honour they were good pancakes.' ‘ As You Like It.’ mould; if in a china mould, five minutes longer. If served with sauce, this must be made of milk and chocolate well boiled, and flavoured with vanilla. If the chocolate used for this pudding is not sweet, a teaspoonful of sugar will be required with the milk in making it. ifrencb pancabes* The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour, with half a pint of milk. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, the eggs—one at a time—and the flour; continue to beat for five minutes longer, adding the milk by degrees. The mixture must not be beaten after the milk is added ‘ By nice art And sleight of hand, with store of milk and eggs, Formed mto pancakes of an ample round.' Henry Pickering.SWEETS. ‘And to appease your hunger, 1 Have in ?ny helmet brought a pie, ’ ‘ Rehearsal.’ or it will curdle. Have ready buttered eight tin plates—the size sold for a penny each— divide the batter equally on them; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When ready to dish up, pass the point of a knife round the edges of the pancakes to loosen them, then spread a layer of plum or apricot jam thinly over them, and fold over in the shape of a roll. Arrange them in a pile, crossways, putting a doily under them. (Tbester Two ounces of butter, four bitter and six sweet almonds blanched and pounded with four ounces of sugar, the juice and grated rind of one large lemon, four eggs, the yolks ‘From cold apple-pie-crust his lordship could stuff in At breakfast to save the expense of hot muffin.^ Moore. I2ISWEETS. 122 ‘ Though frugal he, yet sumptuous was his board. As if to prove hota much he could a ford.' Crabbe. and whites used separately, a soufflee or shallow pie-dish lined with puff-pastry baked a pale- brown colour. Beat toofether for three or four minutes the yolks of the eggs, the butter, sugar, almonds, and lemon. Put the mixture in a saucepan ; let it simmer on the fire until as thick as custard. Remove it from the fire, and when cooled a little, pour into the pastry-lined dish. Cover the top with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; place it in the oven long enough to set the froth, but not to brown it. Serve warm. ‘ Ye waves of ocean, spare the bark ; Ye tempest of the sky— From distant realms she comes to bring The susrar for my pie. ’ Southey.123 i SWEETS. ‘ On a tnpod in the midst A fragrant flame rose, and before ns glow'd Fruit, blossom, viand, amber luine, and gold.' Tennyson. Three carrots, one ounce of butter, two ounces of stale sponge-cake, two eggs, half an ounce of chopped citron, half an ounce of stoned raisins, one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon. Scrape the carrots, and cut them into thin strips; put them into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, and boil until soft. Drain off the water, rub the carrots through a wire sieve into a basin, add the butter melted, the sponge-cake, the grated lemon- rind, the citron and raisins, the sugar, and the two eggs well-beaten. Butter a plain mould, garnish the bottom with raisins stoned ' As he sat at his 7iieal the musick play'd sweet. With the choicest of singhtg his joys to compleat' ‘ Percy Reliques.’SWEETS. 124 ‘ They brought him a pasty of mighty size To cheer his heart, and to charm his eyes' Praed, and opened, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour. Turn out carefully on a hot dish; pour some sauce made of arrowroot and water with a little lemon-juice, butter and sugar, over it, and serve hot. Coventry Martlets* Cheese-cake filling without currants, apricot jam, cream, chopped pistachio-nuts, or pre- served cherries. Line some small patty-pans with puff-paste, and bake in a quick oven. Have ready some cheese-cake filling without currants, scrape out some of the centre paste of the tartlets, nearly fill them with the cheese-cake filling, and put them into the oven for five or six ‘ A cold apple-pie: mind, the pie must be cold.' Moore.SWEETS. 125 ‘ There s an art in pies. In raising crust as well as galleries. ’ Leigh Hunt, minutes to set the curds. When this is done, take them from the oven, remove the tartlets from the patty-pans, and put in each a small teaspoonful of apricot, or any other delicate jam. Just before sending to table, whip up some cream to a froth, and pile it up high on each tartlet. A few chopped pistachio-nuts or cherries should be dropped lightly on the froth as a garnish. These can be served warm or cold. jftlUnQ for Cbeese^cahes anb Coventry Uartlets. One quart of new milk, two teaspoonfuls of rennet, two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, two macaroons, the yolks of two ‘ They call for dates and quinces in the fantry. ’ ‘ Romeo and Juliet.’SWEETS. 126 ‘ Ten 7)ien can scarce match you with a spoon in a pie' ‘ Ralph Roister Doister.’ eggs, two ounces of currants, well washed and dried, a little nutmeg and lemon-peel grated. Warm the milk in a saucepan, but do not make it hot ; pour it into a shallow pie-dish, and mix in gently the essence of rennet. Do not put the dish in a cold place, and in two or three hours a soft curd will be formed. Drain this on a hair sieve, and when all the whey has run from it, put it into a basin, and mix with it the butter, sugar, macaroons— previously broken fine in a mortar—and the yolks of the eggs. Beat together until it resembles thick cream; add the nutmeg, lemon-peel and currants. The nutmeg and currants are omitted if the filling is used for the Coventry Tartlets. The best puff-paste ‘ And supper readie dight they to it fall With small adoe' ‘ Faerie Queene.’SWEETS. 127 ‘ Go with me dow?i to Drayton Basset, No daynties we will spare ; should be used for the cheese-cakes or tartlets, and the filling put in these just before they are put into the oven. Hnoel ipubbtncjs. Two ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of butter, two ounces of fine dried flour, the grated rind of half a lemon, the yolks of two and the white of one egg, half a pint of cream. Melt the butter and the sugar slowly in the cream over the fire. Remove it from the fire, and when nearly cold, pour it gradually over the flour, stirring it all the time to prevent any lumps forming. When well mixed, add the lemon-peel, the yolks of the eggs beaten, and lastly—just before baking— ‘ All daye shall thou eate and drinke of the best. And I will paye thy fared—‘ Percy Reliques.’SWEETS. 128 ‘ Mark well the Jlowering almonds in the wood.' Dryden. the white, which should be beaten to a froth. Pour the mixture into twelve small cups or dariole-tins, only half filling them. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes, or until the puddings are of a pale brown colour. Turn out on a paper or a linen doily, and serve immediately they are ready from the oven, or they will fall fiat. Hlmon^ Custarb Make a custard in the ordinary way, using one pint of new milk, two well-beaten eggs, four bitter almonds blanched and pounded, with a teaspoonful of sugar. Line a plain mould with slices of stale almond-cake a quarter of an inch thick, and ‘ No7v goose and turkey come, and hare, And apple-pie and custard. And chicken a7id asparagus. And Yorkshh'e ham and mustard.' Peter Pindar.SWEETS. K 129 ‘ Go^ hind iJiou itp yon dangling apricocks, I'Fhirh, like nnrnly children, make the sire. Sloop ivith oppression of their prodigal weight.' ‘Richard II.’ pour the lukewarm custard into it; place on one side for an hour to soak, then cover the mould tightly with kitchen-paper and steam the pudding very slowly for half an hour. Turn it out whilst warm, but do not serve until cold. The top can be ornamented with split blanched almonds and pistachio-kernels ar- ranged in a pattern. pain b’Hbncot One pound of apricot-pulp,* half a pound of sugar, half a pint of water, a quarter * Apricot-pulp is soldln tins of five and seven pounds by many grocers, and at all the stores. The best is a fine apricot colour and not acid. ‘ A nd Eve, within due at her hour, prepared For dinner savotiry frtiits, of taste to please True appeiiiesl—Milton.SWEETS. 130 ‘ When lads and lasses merry be, With possets and with jimcates fine. of an ounce of gelatine—‘ Nelson’s best amber.’ Pass the apricot-pulp through a hair sieve into a basin. Dissolve over the fire the sugar in the water, and simmer until this makes a thick syrup. Meanwhile, melt the gelatine in a wineglassful of cold water, and then add it to the hot syrup. When the gelatine is thoroughly mixed and dissolved in the syrup, pour it through a strainer on to the cold pulp. Stir it round a few times, and then pour it into a wet china mould, and put in a cool place to set for about twelve hours. When required for table, turn it out on a glass or silver dish, and cover it with white whipped cream. Some of the apricot-pulp sold is very acid ; in this ‘ Unseene of all the company, I eat their cakes, and sip their wine' ‘ Percy Reliques.’SWEETS. 131 K 2 ''And the latest news is told, While the fruit and cream are sold.' Jean Ingf.low. case more sugar than the half-pound will be required. Bevonsbire 5unbet One pint of new milk, one dessertspoonful of essence of rennet, four lumps of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, Devonshire cream to cover the curds. Put the milk with the sugar into a sauce- pan. As soon as the sugar is dissolved and the milk warm—not hot—pour it into a china bowl or dish, and stir into it the nutmeg and rennet. After the rennet is added, it should not be stirred more than twice, or the milk will not form into even curds. When the curd has set, the dish should be put in a cool place, and the cream laid lightly over it. The 'Immediate nozv Her spreading hands bear doiun the gathering curd. Which harder and harder groivs ; till clear and thin The green zvhey rises sepai-ate.'—Dodsley.SWEETS. 132 ‘ A ndplace a large bowl of rich crea)7t by his side. ’ Moore. junket should be served within three or four hours after the milk has been turned to curds. If clotted cream is not to be had, thick raw cream can be used instead. Xemoit Custar^5♦ Half a pint of water, a small teaspoonful of arrowroot, the grated rind and the juice of one large lemon, six ounces of sugar, two eggs. Thicken the water with the arrowroot, and boil it with the lemon-peel, juice, and sugar for fifteen minutes, or until all the rawness of the arrowroot has gone. Draw the saucepan from the fire, and strain the custard into a jar. When slightly cooled, add the two eggs, '•Such as he could of cotint ry fare., . . . Wasp-bitten pears, the first to fall From off the wavering spire-like tree ; funkets, and cream, and fresh honeyl—Wm. Morris.SWEETS. 133 ‘ He sits to a dinner of plain English food ; Though simple the pudding, his appetite's good.' Cunningham. well beaten, and place the jar in a saucepan of hot water. Let the water round it boil for twenty minutes, stirring the custard all the time with a wooden pin.* The custard will now be thick enough. Allow it to cool before putting it into glasses, and stir it oc- casionally to prevent a skin forming on the top. Orange custards are made in the same way, oranges instead of lemons being used, and half the quantity of sugar should the oranges be sweet ones. * A wooden pin is generally the handle of an old wooden spoon, and as it does not scrape the sides of the pan, is better for stirring all thickened dishes with than a spoon. ‘ He'll find yoti out a food That needs no teeth 7ior stotnach ; a st7'a7ige fur77iity.' Beaumont and Fletcher.SWEETS. 134 ‘ The Jlotcr, the sugar, and the fruit, Commingled well, how well they suit t’ Southey, Semolina a la jfrancaise. One quart of new milk, three ounces of semolina, one bay-leaf or two bitter almonds blanched, two large eggs, two lumps of loaf sugar, the thinly-pared peel of one lemon. Put the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-peel, bay-leaf, and sugar. When it boils, add the semolina, scattering it in slowly, and stirring all the time. Take out the lemon-peel and bay-leaf, and boil for half an hour, stirring it constantly ; then draw the pan from the fire and add the eggs, previously well beaten. Stir well together, and return the pan to the fire for five minutes more, by which time the eggs will be set and the ‘ Man, Nature’s guest by invitation szveet. Receives from her both appetite and treat. ’ COWPER.SWEETS. 135 ‘ Plain food is quite enough for 7ne ; Three cotirses are as good as te7i ; mixture thick. Pour this into a wet china mould, and put it in a cool place to set; in twelve hours it will be ready to serve. Garnish with currant or raspberry jam, and pour round it a nicely-flavoured custard. Manbswortb Soufflee. Two ounces butter, two ounces wheatmeal, three-quarters of a pint of new milk, one dessertspoonful powdered sugar, a small lemon, two eggs. Melt the butter in a saucepan, then mix the meal into it gradually until quite smooth. Boil the milk with the grated rind of the lemon in a separate pan until flavoured, when pour it on to the meal and butter ; stir quickly ‘ If Natu7'e ca7t subsist 07i three^ Tha7ik Heavc7i for three. A 7)ie7i. ’ O. W. Holmes.SWEETS. 136 ‘ The7i he brought the»i a pudding sttiffed with plunis. As big as the State-House dotne, to prevent lumps, and boil for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, and beat in the yolks of the eggs and the sugar ; stand the mixture in a warm place until half an hour before it is sent to table. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them quickly to the above, and pour the whole into a buttered soufflee-dish. Unless the dish is very deep, pin a stiff piece of paper round it to stand 2 in. above the top, as this will help to raise the soufflee while baking. Put it in a brisk oven for about 20 minutes, when serve imme- diately. IRefonn Cabinet pubbino- Half a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of brown breadcrumbs rubbed through a wire ‘ Quoth he, ‘ ‘ There's something for you to eat. So stop your 7nouths luith your 'lection treat. And wait till your dad coines home." ' O. W. Holmes.SWEETS 137 ‘ He kept no Christmas Jiotise for 07ice a year ; Each day his boards we^'e/died with lo7-dly fare ; sieve, one ounce butter, one and a half ounces sugar, one ounce chopped sultanas, the grated peel of a lemon, three blanched bitter almonds pounded with the sugar, two eggs. Boil the milk with the lemon-peel, and when boiling pour it on the breadcrumbs; boil together for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, and beat into it whilst hot the other ingredients. Steam in a buttered mould for an hour and a quarter; turn out, and serve with syrup, sauce, or custard. BMum ipubbino dTOe ipeitect OTap’). Three-quarters of a pound of raisins stoned and chopped fine, half a pound currants washed and dried, six ounces grated bread- ‘ He fed a rout of yeonien with his cheer. Nor was his bread and beef kept in with care' Robert Greene.SWEETS. 138 'Amid those orchards of the stm Give me to drain the cocoa's milky bowl.' Thomson. crumbs, two ounces of flour, two ounces mixed candied peels, a quarter of a nut- meg grated, twelve sweet almonds blanched and cut into shreds, four large or six small eggs, half a pint cold milk, half a pound light-coloured moist sugar, half a pound butter. Mix the butter with the flour by rubbing it against the side of a basin with the back of a wooden spoon ; add the breadcrumbs, flour, fruit, peel, almonds, nutmeg, sugar, eggs, stirring each one in separately, and lastly the milk. When evenly mixed, pour into one large or two small buttered basins; cover with buttered paper, and steam, the large pudding seven hours, the smaller ones ' I tell you., a woman 'nil bake you a pie every week of her life, a7td never come to see that the hotter th' oven the shoider the time.'— G. Eliot.SWEETS 139 ‘ Then to theh' supper 'were tJiey set orderlye. With hot bag-puddings, and good apple-pyed ‘ Percy Reliques.’ four hours. Turn out, and serve with raisin- nectar sauce (p. 19). Cocoanut Six ounces cocoanut grated, four ounces powdered sugar, two ounces butter, rind and juice of one lemon, half pint milk, four eggs. Put the butter, cocoanut, and sugar in a saucepan on the fire; when dissolved, add the milk and the grated rind of the lemon ; boil for a minute. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the eggs well beaten and the lemon-juice. Have ready a shallow pie- dish, lined round sides and edges with puff- paste ; pour in the mixture, and bake immedi- ‘‘ And the kitcJmi-iJiaids stand, and don't know what to do. For the rich plum-puddings are bursthig their bags' Ingoldsby,SWEETS. 140 ‘ While discourse they hold, no fear lest dinner cool. ’ Milton. ately in a moderately hot oven for about an hour. Serve in the dish. CHueen of tbe ©cean pubbino* Four ounces butter, three ounces flour, three ounces powdered sugar, four ounces chopped raisins, the grated rind of a small lemon, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the butter to a cream, and whilst beating add the sugar, flour, lemon-peel, and raisins. Whip the egg with the milk, and add that to the mixture. Pour into a buttered mould, cover with paper, and steam for four hours. Serve with or without sauce. If the latter, make it of warmed cream slightly sweetened, and flavoured with almonds. '■Fruit of all kinds, in coat Rough, or s77iooth rind, or bearded husk or shell. She gathers ; hdbute large ! and on the board Heaps with unsparing hand.'—Milton.SWEETS. 'A cook of some fame^ Who invented the same Cold pudding that still bears the family name.' Ingoldsby. nLcinon Soufflee (ColD). Four eggs, two lemons, one-sixth of an ounce of best amber gelatine, two or three ounces of sugar, according to the acidity of the lemons. Soak the gelatine for half an hour in as much cold water as will cover it. Put the yolks of the eggs in a stewpan with the grated rind and juice of the lemons. Add the sugar and soaked gelatine ; warm until the gelatine is quite dissolved, and the whole is the thickness of rich custard. It must be constantly stirred whilst on the fire. Remove from the fire, and when nearly cold stir into it the whites of the eggs, which must pre- ‘ Taking her horn of plentie. Filled with the choyce of every orchard's daintie, As peares, plums, apples, the sweet raspis-berry.' Browne.SWEETS. 142 ‘ If j'ou go past your dinner-time, there'll be little relish o' yottr ?neat.'—G. Eliot. viously be whipped to a stiff froth. Pour into a wet china mould, and place in a cool place for six hours to set, when turn out for the table. IRugrob. One pint ‘fruit-acid’ (p. 214), one ounce fine sago, a few lumps of sugar if required, a quarter to half a pint cream or milk. Put the ‘ fruit-acid ’ and sago in a saucepan to simmer for an hour and a half, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Take it from the fire, and, if needed, add the sugar ; let it cool before pouring it into a wet china mould. It will require from six to twelve hours to set, according to the temperature it is placed in. When required to serve, turn ^ Andfirst they ate the 'ivhite puddings, And then they ate the black.' ‘ The Barkin’ of the Door.’SWEETS. 143 ‘ The sweet cake broke, the rice amt attar thi'own.’ Edwin Arnold. out in a glass dish, and pour the cream or milk over it. IRose Blancmanoe. One and a quarter pint of milk, one table- spoonful arrowroot, eighteen sweet almonds blanched and pounded with one tablespoonful of pounded sugar, two ounces butter, two tablespoonfuls rose-water. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk, cold. Put the rest of the milk in a saucepan on the fire with the butter, sugar, rose-water, and almonds; when boiling, pour this over the mixed arrowroot, stirring rapidly. Return the whole to the saucepan, boil for ten minutes, and pour into a wet '‘Let hhn have food and wine ; he has ridden ha7‘d, And lacks refreshment.' Sir Henry Taylor.SWEETS. 144 ‘77/ add another dish ; you shall have milk to it; ’ Tis nourishing and good. ’ Beaumont and Fletcher. mould. Two or three hours will set this blancmange, unless in hot weather, when more time must be allowed, or ice used. Serve with cold custard flavoured with almonds and rose-water. The best arrow- root should be used, or the mould will not turn out Arm. Snow 1Rice* One quart milk, four ounces ground rice, two ounces powdered sugar, two ounces butter, the rind of a small lemon. Mix the rice with a quarter of a pint of the milk ; boil the remainder with the lemon-peel until it is flavoured ; add the butter and sugar, and pour over the mixed rice, stirring to prevent lumps. Return all to the saucepan, '■ Eat your pudding, slave, and hold your tongue.' Prior.SWEETS. 145 L ^ It is the fair accepta^ice^ sir, creates The e7itertainme7itperfect, not the cates' Ben Jonson. and boil for twenty minutes. Pour the rice into a mould ; put in a cool place to set. Turn out, and serve with whipped cream and stewed fruit, or fruit-syrup. Uaploca JSlancmauoe. Three-quarters of a pint of new milk, a quarter of a pint of cream, two ounces of tapioca, half an ounce of gelatine, four sweet and four bitter blanched almonds pounded with three lumps of sugar. Soak the tapioca in a little water from one to two hours until it is soft, and soak the gelatine ten to fifteen minutes. Boil the milk and cream with the pounded almonds for ten minutes, then pour it over the prepared tapioca. Stir this round a few times, and ‘ Those palates who, not used to htmgers savour. Must have inventiojts to delight the taste. Would now be glad of bi'ead, and beg for it.’ ‘ Pericles.’SWEETS. 146 ' Str . . . . Everybody loves to have good things furnished to them u ithout any trouble. put it back into the pan ; add the gelatine, and let all simmer until both tapioca and gelatine are almost dissolved. Remove from the fire, and after stirring a few times to cool, pour the blancmange into a wet mould, and put in a cool place to set. Turn out on a glass dish, and garnish with any kind of plum jam and cream or milk. IHlicbors Blancmange. Two tablespoonfuls ‘ Food of Health,’* one pint new milk, a piece of butter the size of a small walnut, the grated rind of * Dr. Nichol’s ‘Food of Health’ can be bought at most grocers’, at the stores, and at store price from Sydney Young, 29, Mark Lane, E.C. ‘ I told Mrs. Thrale ofiee that . . . she should have a profusion of the best szueetmeats, and she would sure to have company enough come toiler.'—Dr. Johnson.SWEETS, 147 L 2 ''Here is cream. Deepening to richness from a snoioy gleam' Keats. half a lemon rubbed on two lumps of sugar, one egg. o o Mix the ^ Food of Health ’ with a quarter- pint milk into a smooth batter. Simmer the rest of the milk with the lemon, sugar, and butter until flavoured with the lemon ; bring it to a boil, and pour it over the mixed ‘ Food of Health,’ stirring with a wooden spoon to keep it smooth. Whip in the egg, and, when this is well mixed, return all to the saucepan ; boil for four or five minutes, stirring all the time to prevent burning. Pour into a wet mould, and put in a cool place for not less than six or eight hours, when it can be turned out. Serve with cream, milk, stewed fruit, or jam. ‘ A boiled joint as you could make broth of for the kitchen, and a plain pudding, zuith a spoonful o' sugar, and no spice, 'ud be far more becoming.'—G. Eliot.SWEETS. 148 ‘ What should we talk of dainties then. Of better meat thanks fit for men ? These are but vain: GiUGer Cream. The well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger thinly sliced, a pint of milk or cream, half an ounce Nelson’s gelatine soaked in cold water for five or six hours and then dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk, sugar to taste, two tablespoonfuls of the ginger- syrup. Put the eggs and ginger into a stewpan with the milk, syrup, and sugar ; stir over a slow fire till the preparation begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. When nearly cold, add the dissolved gelatine ; whisk gently till the cream begins to set, and stand for four hours, or longer if convenient. ‘ That's only good Which God hath blest, and sent for food.' IzAAK Walton.SWEETS. 149 ‘ He dined and supp'd up07i the best. And frequent breakfasts ate.' Yalden. (S^ueen’s 1Rice. Three ounces Carolina rice well washed, one quart new milk, one gill cream, three lumps of sugar pounded, half an ounce of gelatine, two teaspoonfuls orange - flower vv^ater. Boil the rice in the milk for two or three hours, or until it is so thoroughly cooked that the trains are almost dissolved. Pour it into o a basin, and when cooled a little, stir in the gelatine, which must be dissolved in a few spoonfuls of milk heated over the fire, and carefully strained. Add the cream, orange- flower water and sugar, pour into a wet mould, and put in a cool place for eight or ‘ Right glad, when she By lucky search achieves so rare a dish.' Beaumont.SWEETS. 150 ‘ Where, in nice balance, truth ivith gold she weighs, A nd solid pudding against empty praise. ’ Pope. ten hours to set, unless ice is used, when two hours will be enough. When turned out, garnish with jam and raw cream. /IDacaroni Brahesque* A quarter of a pound Naples macaroni; three pints milk ; a quarter of a pint cream, or less ; a quarter of a pint of thick custard ; some apricot or plum jam.* Break the macaroni in quarter-inch lengths, and having washed it, stew it gently in the milk till tender and all the milk is absorbed. When cool, put it in a glass dish, and cover * Preserve, as good as the best home-made preserve, may be obtained from Samuel Saunders, fruit-grower, Market Lavington, Wiltshire, and other country depots. ‘ “ What havest tho'ivl'" quath he ; eny hote spices ?" ’ ‘Piers Plowman.’SWEETS. '‘Nor there the davison 7i<a?tts, nor dainty apricock.^ Drayton. over with the custard. Whip the cream to a froth ; put the jam on the custard in squares or diamonds at regular distances, and with a funnel made of stiff writing-paper run the whipped-cream round the jam in a pattern. If half the whipped cream be coloured pink, the effect of the arabesque is good. Hpncot Naples macaroni; stewed apricots or apples. Boil some Naples macaroni for an hour ; drain it on a sieve, and plunge it into cold water for a few minutes until cold. Lay it on a cloth that it may dry slightly, then cut it into lengths, the third of an inch long. Butter a basin slightly, and with a wooden skewer or bone pen-holder, the size of the 'A drain of s'ueete is rvorth a pound of soure.' ‘ Faerie Queene.’SWEETS 152 ''Fresh cheese, and dowsets, curds, and clouted cream. Spic'd syllibubs, and cyder of the best' Drayton, macaroni, place each of the pieces of maca- roni closely side by side round the basin. When the sides and bottom of the basin are covered, pour in the stewed fruit up to within a quarter of an inch of the top. Over the top place long lengths of macaroni closely together, until the fruit is quite covered. Place the basin in a cool place for five or six hours. When required to serve, dip it in warm water for a second or two to melt the butter, and the sea-urchin will slip easily from the mould. Cup 1Rice ipubbincis- Five ounces of rice ; one quart milk ; half an ounce butter; two eggs ; strips of citron ; powdered sugar ; lemon or vanilla. 'And lo ! two puddings smoked upon the boat'd.' Anon.SWEETS. 153 ‘ For certes, ivhcn the pot boileth strongly, the best re7nedy is to withdraw the fii'ed—Chaucer. Put the rice into a saucepan with the milk and butter ; set it to simmer for two hours^; turn out into a basin to cool; flavour and sweeten to taste, and add two eggs well beaten. Butter some deep cups, lay in some strips of citron ; fill them with the mixture, and bake half an hour ; serve with syrup sauce. TOafer pubbinos- One and a half ounces butter ; two ounces flour ; two eggs ; half a pint milk ; apricot or some plum jam. Work the butter into the flour; add two eggs well beaten, and half a pint of milk. Have ready eighteen small patty-pans but- tered ; pour in the mixture, and bake in a hot ‘If you could make a pudding wi' thinkmg o’ the batter, it ’ud be easy getting dinner.'—G. Eliot.SWEETS. 154 '’Milk andJlunmiery are very fit for children.' Locke. oven till of a nice brown colour. When baked, spread with jam and put two to- o-ether. o Xemon Creams. One large lemon ; two ounces powdered sugar ; half a pint raisin nectar ; one pint of cream. Grate the rind of a lemon into a large basin and squeeze the juice on it; add the sugar and nectar ; whisk all together for about ten minutes, when the cream should be light and thick, but not too thick to pour into tall jelly glasses ; put the glasses in a cold place for eight or nine hours, by which time the nectar and lemon-juice will have settled ‘ Use scanted diet, and forbeare your fill.' ‘ Faerie Queene.’SWEETS. 155 ‘ The dessert came on, and jellies brotight' King. at the bottom, and the cream will remain firm and light at the top. The above quantity will fill ten or twelve glasses. IHectar Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine ; one pint raisin nectar, the rind—thinly pared —and the juice of two lemons; the yolks of two eggs ; sugar to taste. Soak the gelatine for half an hour in the nectar ; put this on the fire with the rind of the lemons, and boil long enough for the gelatine to be thoroughly dissolved and the flavour of the peel to be extracted. Remove from the fire, take out the lemon-peel, and, ‘ / tuill make an e7id of my dinner: there's pippms and cheese to come.'—‘Merry Wives of Windsor.’SWEETS. 156 '’And no wight till he comes Jllajy profane the great chair and the porridge of plums. ’ Scott. when the flummery has cooled a little add the yolks of the eggs, the lemon-juice, and the sugar ; strain through a fine sieve or piece of muslin ; return to the saucepan, and boil for three minutes, stirring rapidly with a wooden pin all the time. Pour it into a basin to cool a little before putting it into a wetted mould to set. This will take about six hours, if put in a cool place. prune Half a pound of prunes; three ounces of powdered sugar; one pint of water; a little lemon-peel, or any other flavouring ; a quarter ounce of gelatine (soaked in as little water as possible). ‘ These our poor gifts of snoiuy ciirds, fresh made., With milk as white as new-carved ivory' Edwin Arnold.SWEETS. 157 ‘ '/ he queen of curds and cream d ‘Winter’s Tale.’ Put the prunes into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and flavouring ; put the sauce- pan (with the lid on) where it will simmer for five hours, or until the prunes are quite soft; take the pan from the fire, let it cool a little ; remove the stones from the prunes with a teaspoon ; line a mould with the opened prunes ; melt the gelatine in the prune syrup, which should be reduced to half a pint ; pour this over the prunes in the mould. Put in a cool place, and when quite set turn out on a dish, and serve with cream poured round. Italian Curbs. One pint of new milk ; one teaspoonful of powdered sugar; two tablespoonfuls of orange- ‘ Then curds atid crea?n, the flower of country fare. And new-laid eggs, which Baucis busy care Turjtd by a gentle fire, and roasted rare. ’ Dryden.SWEETS. 158 ‘ My dinner 7uas ready, and to it Ifell; 1 never ate better meat, that I can tell. ’ Cotton. flower water ; and one teaspoonful of cara- mel ;* a quarter of a pint of cream ; one dessertspoonful of essence of rennet. Dissolve the suorar in the milk over the o hre, and before it begins to boil pour it into a deep dish ; let it stand ten minutes to cool; stir occasionally to prevent skin forming on the top ; pour in the rennet, stir, and then set the dish aside for an hour and a half. By this time a thick curd will have formed. Place a fine hair-sieve over a basin and pour the curd on the top side. When the whey has drained away, remove the sieve to another basin, and rub the curds through the sieve * For the method of making caramel, see p. ii6 ‘ Caramel Pudding.’ '‘Here are biscuits to eat, and here is milk to di~ink.' Walt Whitman.SWEETS 159 ‘ / always thought cold vituals nice. My choice zvould he vanilla ice. ’ O. W. Holmes. with the back of a w'ooclen spoon. Mix the orange-flower-water with the caramel and the cream, and pour it over the sieve from time to time. Scrape the curds from the under- side of the sieve, to which much will have adhered, into the basin. Stir two or three times, and serve in a glass dish. Jceb Soufflee ant) JBiscmts Glaces, A quarter of a pound of crushed ratafias ; half a pint of well whipped cream placed near ice when whipped ; half a pint of thick custard, flavoured with two tablespoonfuls of brandy, noyeau, or vanilla. Mix the custard, when cold, with the rata- fias, and place it in a freezing-pot; freeze in ‘ Sure, these are tnodern, very modern meats, For I understand ’em not.’ Beaumont and Fletcher.SWEETS. ''Fruit and ice, and all that art refines' Byron. the usual way, and when the custard is firmly frozen, stir in amongst it the cream ; the more lightly the cream is mixed with the iced custard the more frothy and light will be the appearance of the soufdee. Have ready a metal soufdee dish, fasten round it a band of stiff writing-paper, three inches above the dish, and pile the frozen mixture in it. Place it on the ice for two hours before serving; scatter over the top some pounded ratafias, or finely-chopped pistachio kernels ; remove the paper band, and pin a napkin round the dish. The soufdee should be handed on a salver, that the warmth of the hand may not melt it. It is often served as biscuits glaces, in small paper ramequin cases. ‘ " If you will co?ne you shall be 7velcome, btU I tell you aforehead, you shall have but slender fare—one dish, that is all.” " IF hat is that V saide hee. " A pudding, and nothing else.” '—Latimer. i6oSWEETS. ‘ / always thought cold victual nice. My choice would be vanilla ice.' O. W. Holmes. 3cet) Cabinet pubbing. A stale sponge-cake, a little smaller than the pudding to be made ; two wineglassfuls of sherry or marsala; two teaspoonfuls of noyeau, mixed with the wine ; one ounce each of candied cherries and angelica ; one ounce of ratafias crushed small ; a quarter of an ounce of gelatine soaked in cold milk for about fifteen minutes ; one pint of ordinary rich custard flavoured with brandy. Cut the cake in half-inch thick slices, the size of the mould in which the pudding is to be frozen ; lay these slices in a dish, and soak them with the wine. When softened, and the wine all absorbed, fill the mould— 'Sure, these are modern, very modern meats, For I understand 'em not.' Ek.aumont and Fletcher. i6i MSWEETS. 162 '’He difted ajid supp'd tipon the best, Atid frequent breakfasts ate.' Yalden. which should be decorated at the bottom with cherries cut in halves—with layers of cake, scattering between each ratafias and the cherries and angelica cut small. When the mould is full to within an inch of the top, pour the custard lukewarm into it. If after allowing it to stand an hour the cake has not swelled, so as to completely fill the mould, another layer of cake should be added ; then close the mould tightly with its lid, and bury it in crushed ice mixed with one quarter its bulk in coarse salt. In four hours the pudding should be firmly frozen. When required to serve, dip the mould for one instant into boiling water, and slip the pudding from it on to a plated or silver dish. The extreme ‘ Right glad, when she By lucky search atchieves so rare a dish.' Beaumont.SWEETS. 163 M 2 ‘ Did they wi(h thirst in summer burn, Lo, seltzogenes at every turn ; cold will probably crack any glass or thin china dish. In serving the pudding, a plate, or thickly-folded napkin, should be held between the dish and the hands, which would otherwise melt the pudding and spoil its appearance. ‘ And on all very sultry days Cream ices handed I'ound on trays. ’ ‘ Bar Bali.ads.’‘ And here I must To a discovery rare, in time advert: \ antr iBeasf. 5li)(|eafm^al tinfri #^i^man 5|0mu- matri' B^ln^atmeal Sttcati Uttffi Safiin0-^ahrtn?tt. liauscjjaltr ^rj^at». Jrcucli 'Brc^atr. HitUt ovi ^imtj^r KaUs. Bliaijf QlaJic. Paimli, Spi^tr, ovi piiim Scamps. [Ola lie. (Sasi^r QTakea. 'IBlutafm^al Siacuifs. i UDafi^r S^iacuite. Cancaaf|ixtB Jlum&l^a. (gntrjjlapjj (ITafu^a. Btatutfa. ?B)ri^afmttaI ipUint (J^ake. Sugait Siacuifa. OBIji^afutual Sfiri^iaakurQ (Eake,a, Sjran0C-(JTaki». ?B)0trMn0 ar iSut^lffli OTak^. Staiaa tEalk #cijman QTak^ (far ij^iitr- iiing. (Eauttar^). ipaaaakrr (ITakr. ‘ Tor the pure substance dense svhich is conceal'd Within the husk, and which by process quick As simple, is transform'd to meal, should first Be clean divested its sombre coat. ’ Henry Pickering.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 167 ‘/f this your care ? Ne'er did you dream that meal ivas made from corn ; Which is not groit'U jmtil the ea}'th be plough'd ; Which is not garner'd up until 'tis c7/t; Which is not fit for use 7intil 'tis grotnid ; Nor usM then till kneadedmto bread.'—Sheridan Knowi.es. JBreab anb Biscuits. JSreaO*iroafting. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. O make good brown bread, wheatmeal is essential ; white flour mixed with bran — a mixture often used for this purpose—will not make palatable brown bread. Wholemeal—that is, the whole grain ground together—is too coarse and irritating for many digestions ; but to Decorticated wheatmeal there is not this objection. In ‘Afet/links I see the old oak table spread, The clean white trencher, and the good brown bread.' Southey.BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ Till that hir corn was faire and wel yground. ’ Chaucer. this meal the outer coat or bran is removed from the wheat, and the delicate inner coat, which contains elements of nutritive value, is kept and ground up with the inside flour or starchy portion.* Yeast, or baking-powder, will be required to raise the bread. The yeast must be fresh. In case yeast cannot be bought, the house- wife will find here a receipt for making it. The yeast that is to be used for making wheatmeal bread must be mixed with cold water, i.e., water at a temperature of 66° Fah., as warm water tends to develop acid fermen- * This meal can be obtained from Geo. Pimm and Co., Upper Mills, Wandsworth, S.W. ; from Flour Factors, 9, Great George Street, Liverpool; from the Avon Flour Mills, Evesham ; and others. ‘ Then studious she prepares the choicest Jlour, The strength of wheatd Pope. i68BREAD AND BISCUITS. 169 'I live with bread like you.' ‘ Richard II.’ tation. Further, the wheatmeal loaf raised with yeast must be baked in a bread tin, and in an oven cooler than is used for white bread, or the crust will be unpleasantly hard. If baking-powder be used in the place of yeast, it must not have lost its strength. As baking-powder does lose its strength unless the air be kept from it, it is best to place the box or packet that has been opened in a closed tin. The baking-powders supplied by the Haymarket Civil Service Stores, by Nichols, and by Borwicks, are good. In cheap baking-powders the tartaric acid is replaced by cream of tartar, a less wholesome substance. In making bread or cakes with baking- ‘ Behind the door a bag of 7neal, And ht the kist ivas plenty Of good hard cakes his mither bakes., Attd bannocks wereiia ‘Scottish Songs.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 170 ‘ Sooth to say. Such bread as there taas baked that day Was never seen.' Wm. Morris. powder, the flour and baking-powder must be rubbed together dry, and thoroughly mixed before the other ingredients are added. The oven in which the bread is baked should be very hot, but should be allowed to cool When loaves are taken from the oven, they must be gently shaken out of their tins, propped up so as to expose the under side, and covered lightly with a cloth until they are cold, as this prevents the crust hardening too much. l^east. One ounce of hops ; half a pound of brown sugar ; one pound of flour ; three pounds of mashed potatoes ; a teaspoonful of salt. ‘ The bread is all baked. The embers are raked. ’ Sir Wm. Davenant (1605-1668).BREAD AND BISCUITS. ^ Look at me / / make my oivn breads and there's no difference between one batch and another from year's end to year's end.'— G. Eliot. Set three quarts of water to boil in a sauce- pan ; when the water boils, put in the hops and set the pan to boil for two hours ; re- move from the stove. Allow the liquor to stand until it is milk-warm, then add the salt and brown sugar. Add the flour gradually to the liquor, beating the mixture lightly with a spoon to keep it smooth. Set aside in a warm place for forty-eight hours. At the end of this time add the mashed potatoes ; keep the mixture in a temperature of about 90° Fah., and stir several times during the next twelve hours ; let it stand a night, and in the morning strain the mixture through a sieve and pour into a stone bottle ; cork securely. Two days after it has been bottled ‘ 1 would give you a roasted capon first, And a good ring loaf of wheaten bread: Southey.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 172 ‘ Brought ozit a dusky loaf that smelt'of home. ’ Tennyson, it will be ready for use. The yeast will keep for ten days; kept longer it becomes bitter. Those who prepare yeast by this receipt, and wish to have it ready for use by Saturday, will find it most convenient to begin making it on Monday. I TObeatmcal Breab mtb (Berman or IlDome^ I inabe Upcast, I ' I Two pounds of wheatmeal ; one teaspoon- ’ ful of salt; a piece of German yeast the size of a nutmeg, or one dessertspoonful of home- made or brewer’s yeast; half a pint of water at 66° Fall. ; half a pint of milk-and-water at 66° Fah. ; one teaspoonful of brown sugar. '■Be ttvice ten measures of the choicest flour Prepared, ere yet descends the evening hour.^ Pope.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 173 ‘ One poor pennyivorth of bread to all this intolerable quantity of sack!’—‘ Henry IV.’ Dissolve the sugar in half a pint of water and mix the yeast with the water ; when smooth add the milk-and-water ; mix the salt well with the wheatmeal ; stir the yeast mixture into the meal with a wooden spoon for three or four minutes, until it is as stiff as a thick batter ; fill a greased baking-tin about half full with the batter and place it in a screen before the fire at a temperature of 90° Fah. The tin must be turned occasion- ally in order that the bread may rise equally. The time required for rising will be about three-quarters of an hour. The bread must be baked in a hot oven that is gradually allowed to cool. It will take from one hour to an hour and a quarter baking. ‘ They were all sitting dowti together to their lentil soup ; a large wheate7i loaf zvas in the middle of the tablel—‘ Sentimental Journey.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 174 ‘ Contented she earned and ate her brorvn bread.' ‘ Scottish Songs,’ TObeatmeal JSreab with BabiuGs=ipowber. One pound wheatmeal flour ; a saltspoonful of salt; a teaspoonful of baking-powder; three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Put the ingredients into a basin, and mix them lightly with the water, using an iron spoon. This forms a wet dough. Fill a greased bread-tin two-thirds full, to allow space for rising, and put it immediately into a hot oven to bake for three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn it at once out of the tin to cool. This bread will become dry sooner than that made with yeast, so must be made more often. ‘ Let husky luheat the haughs adorn, A nd aits set up their a^unie hor7i. ’ Burns.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 175 ‘ The stnell o’ bread's szveet t' everybody but the baker' G. Eliot. IfDousebolb JSreab. Put ei^ht pounds of flour, in which a table- spoonful of salt has been rubbed, into a large pan or tub. Have yeast ready prepared— brewer’s, German, or home-made yeast can be used ; if brewer’s, two tablespoonfuls will be wanted, with two teaspoonfuls of brown sugar, and half a pint of cold water; if Ger- man, one ounce and a half, with one teaspoon- ful of brown sugar, and half a pint of water; if home-made, three tablespoonfuls, one of sugar, with half a pint of water. To the yeast and cold water add three pints of luke- warm water, and stir together in a basin or jug. Then, using a large wooden spoon, mix '' Ne doth she give them other thing to eat. But bread and water, or like feeble thhig.' ‘ Faerie Queene.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 176 'Bread that decaying ma7i with stretigth supplies.’ Pope. the flour into a soft dough, moving the spoon from the outside to the inside as in kneading. Five minutes will be ample time to mix it, as the dough will be soft. When lifting the dough from the pan, sprinkle a little flour on the spoon and sides of the pan to prevent waste. Divide the dough into four pieces, shape these into loaves ; the more quickly this is done the better will be the bread. Each piece of dough should be dropped into a four-pound baking-tin (greased and flour- sprinkled), and the tins placed four feet from the fire to rise. This will take from two to three hours, and care must be taken to keep the dough in an even temperature of ninety degrees ; to ensure this, the tins, if placed in ' If there he ivho hath of g7-ain, Here is a kingdo7n's 7'a7tsoni for 07te life ; Give L7iksli77ii bread, a7id take 77iy 77ioo7ilightpea7'l.' Edwin Arnold.rrp:ad and biscuits. N 177 ^ And Enid bronght sioeet cakes to make them cheer, And, in her veil enfolded, manchet bread.' Tennyson. a screen, must be turned round occasionally. A thick-folded cloth should be laid over them to prevent the top forming into a skin or crust, which would prevent the rising of the bread in baking. The oven for this bread should be hot when the loaves are put in, and gradually allowed to cool. The baking will take from one and a half to two hours. jfrend) Breab. One pound of fine white fiour, one ounce of butter, one ounce of powdered white sugar, one egg, three-quarters of a pint of milk, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt. Mix the sugar and salt with the flour ; then 'A sheeve of bread as browne as nut. And cheese as white as snow, A nd landings, or the season’s fruit Fie did in scrip bestcrw.’- Percy Reliques.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 178 ‘ ’ Tiuould Innifit your sorvls To see the hutthered rowls.' Thackeray. rub the butter into it. Beat up the egg in the milk, and add it to the flour, and beat up lightly until smoothly mixed. Immedi- ately before baking stir in the baking-powder ; pour the soft dough into a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. When taken from the oven, shake it out of the tin at once, and place it on a sieve to cool. /Ilbilh or Binner IRoUs* Put half an ounce of fresh German yeast into a basin, with a pint of cold water to wash it. Let it settle for an hour, then pour off the water, leaving the yeast at the bottom. ‘ Let those 'ioho prefer it have plain bread-and-butter ; For me, lads, I warrant the toast shall go round.' ‘ Carols of Cockayne.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. N 2 179 ‘ Which in the dough they kneaded, rolling cakes, And baking them over the crackling tho7-ns ; With a small wooden spoon stir into the yeast one dessertspoonful of light-coloured moist suear and two of flour, adding lukewarm water until the basin is half full of a thick batter. Stand the basin near the fire out of draughts for thirty minutes, when, if the mixture has risen properly, it will be at the top of the basin, and, when stirred, show itself very light and ropy. Rub into this three pounds of white flour, three ounces of butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, and as much lukewarm milk and water as will make the whole into a soft* dough. When this has risen place it on a floured pastry-board, and roll across once, leaving the dough about an inch and a half thick. With a deep cutter ‘ So that the savour spread throughout the ca7)ip Of nciu bread smoking. ’ Edwin Arnold.BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ IVr mude ait cakes or butter bakes.' o ‘ Scottish Songs.’ cut this into rolls the size wanted, and place them on a greased baking-sheet. Press in the centre of each roll with the end of a knife-handle; brush each over with milk ; set before the fire twenty minutes to rise, and then bake in a moderate oven. Short Cake. Half a pound of butter, six ounces of pounded sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, one pound of decorticated wheat- meal. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the meal by degrees, and lastly the lemon- peel. When thoroughly mixed, knead it out on a floured baking-sheet three-quarters of ‘ / could come every afternoon of my life to look at the farmei's gi?d boiling her iron tea-kettle and baking short-cake.'—Walt Whitman. i8oBREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ Dost thoti think because thou art virtuous there shall be no more cakes or ale ?' — Twelfth Nigiit.’ an inch thick. Before putting it in the oven, mark out with the point of a knife the size the squares of cake are to be when baked. Bake it in a moderately hot oven half an hour. When taken from the oven, let it stand five minutes before removing it from the baking-sheet, so as to prevent its breaking in small pieces. pounb, Sect), or iplum Cake. One pound of butter, one pound of pounded sugar, one pound of flour (dried), two ounces of candied peel, two ounces of almonds blanched and split in flat lengths, eight eggs, half a pound of chopped raisins, and two ounces of well-washed and dried currants, or two ounces of carraway seeds. ‘ There's sax eggs in the pan, glide man.' ‘Scottish Songs.’ i8iBREAD AND BISCUITS. 182 ‘ Frae inorn to e'en it's nought but toiling. At baking, roasting, frying, boiling ; Beat the butter and suQrar to a thick cream in a basin with a spoon-whisk ; then add the eggs two at a time, whisking continuously, and for twenty minutes after all the eggs are in ; then drop in the flour a little at a time so that the batter is kept free from lumps ; then add the remaining ingredients. Pour the batter into two deep one-pound cake-tins, lined with well buttered kitchen-paper, and raised an inch or two above the tins, as this will help the cakes to rise and keep them from scorching. Bake the cakes in a moder- ately hot oven for an hour. Before taking them from the oven, test if enough baked by putting a wooden skewer through them. If the skewer comes out dry, the cake is done ; ‘ An tJw the geiitry first are strcchin. Yet e’en the ha' folk fll their pechan Wi’ sauce, 7'agouts, an' sic like trashtrie. That's little shoi't o' dowivight u'astj'ie.'—Burns.BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ If you ivish to grow thinner, diminish yo7ir dinner. And take to light claret instead of pale ale ; if soft cake or batter adheres to it, keep the cake longer in the oven. The cakes are lighter if removed from the tins when taken O from the oven and put on a sieve until cold. The paper should remain on until the cakes are cold. The cake mixture should be put into the tins immediately before they are put into the oven or the fruit will fall to the bottom Instead of being scattered about the cake ; also, the oven must be hot enough to set the mixture quickly or the same thing will happen. If the cakes are to look brown when cut, dry them in the oven with the door slightly open after they are baked. If brown flour be used the cake should be a seed one only. ‘ I.ook do7UJt with an utter co)ttempt upon Imtter, And never touch bread till it's toasted—or stale.' ‘Carols of Cockayne.’ 1^3BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ I took him in andgied him a scone.' ‘ Scottish Songs.’ Scones, Half a pound of finest flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt and of sugar, a tea- spoonful of baking-powder, and three-quarters of a gill of milk. Rub the butter into the flour with the sugar, salt, and baking-powder, and mix in the milk with an iron spoon as lightly as possible. Roll out with a little flour to the thickness of an inch, and cut into three- cornered shapes. Bake in a quick oven twenty^ minutes, and serve up on a napkin. For these scones wheat-meal flour can be used if preferred to white. ‘ With bannocks of good barley-meal, O' thacjhere was r-ight plenty.' ‘ Scottish Songs.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 185 ‘ There was cakes and apples in all the chapels, JVith fine polonies and rich mellcnupears.' Ingolusby. Easter Caf?es. One pound of dour, nine ounces of butter, five ounces of currants, five ounces of white sugar, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, cinnamon and nutmeg to davour. Rub the butter into the dour, add the sugar, the yolks and whites of the eggs well beaten, then the currants and davouring. Mix well together, roll once across on a pastry-board, cut out round biscuits, and bake in a moderate oven. Mbeatmeal Eiscuits» One pound of wheatmeal, three ounces of butter, one ounce of powdered sugar, a pinch ‘ He eateth butter a Fridayes without a dispensation of our holy father the Pope, yea, and cakehread made wyth niilke and egges to.'— Tyndall.BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ And from the ark at last did take A/eal forth for porridge and for cake.' Wm. Morris. of salt, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, a little cold milk. Mix the baking-powder thoroughly with the meal, and add the sugar and salt ; rub the butter in the meal, and add enough milk to make the paste soft, but firm enough to roll out. Put the paste on a slab or board on which some flour has been scattered, roll it out to one-third of an inch thick, prick it all over, and then cut it into biscuits the size of a wineglass-top. Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes, or until a light-brown colour. These biscuits will keep several months if kept in tin boxes with paper pasted round the lids. '■ A7id these our ships .... Are st07-ed with corn, to make your needy b>-ead, And give them life 7uho a?'e hunger-sta7~ved, half-dead.' . ‘ Pericles.’BREAD AND lUSCUITS. ‘ A nd therfore is I come, and eke A lein To grind our corn, and cary it home agein. ’ Chaucer. TOafer Biscuits. One ounce of butter, two ounces of fine white flour, a pinch of salt, and lukewarm milk and water. Rub thebutter into the flour and salt, and mix into a firm paste with milk and water. Turn it out on to a board, roll it a few times, fold it over three times, and beat it well with the rolling-pin with each fold. Let it remain covered over with a basin for half an hour to lighten ; then roll it out on a floured slab as thin as the blade of a knife. Prick it all over, cut it out into large biscuits, and place them on warm baking-sheets slightly floured. A moderately heated oven will bake the ‘ l7i this maixh a pair of shoes was sold for thirty shillhigs, and a hisket cake for te7i shillmgs ; so gi-eat was our zua7it both of cloathmg a7id victuals.'—SiR Francis Drake.BREAD AND BISCUITS ‘ Some cry covenant instead Of pudding, pies and gingerb?-ead.' Anon. biscuits in ten minutes. When done they should be a pale pinky-brown colour. They should be eaten quite new. If kept a few days they can be crisped up again by putting them in a cool oven for a few minutes. Xancasbire fumbles. Half a pound of butter, five ounces of sifted sugar, three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, an eggspoonful of pounded and sifted cinna- mon and mace, the grated rind of half a lemon, two eggs. Beat the butter to a cream with four ounces of the sugar. Add the eggs separately, then the flour, spices and lemon- peel, beating all the time, and for ten minutes after all the ingredients have been added. ‘ Pray you do me the favour Po put these feiv quiaice cakes in your pocket.' Massinger.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 189 ‘ Do you look for cakes and ah here ‘ Henry VIII.’ Put away in a cool place for two hours to become firm. Sprinkle the remaining ounce of sugar on a pasteboard or slab, roll the paste to the sixth of an inch thick, cut it into any fanciful shapes liked, and bake in a moderate oven until a light-brown colour. iBuvelopc Cakes. The weight of four eggs in butter, sugar, and flour ; two ounces of sultana raisins, one ounce of dried cherries, grated rind of half a lemon, half a pint of cream. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, flour, lemon-peel, and yolks of eggs. Beat together for ten minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, also the cream— ‘ Marlow. When 1 travel I always choose to regtilate ?ny otvn supper. Let the cook be called. No offence I hope, sir?'—‘She Stoops to Conquer.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. ‘ Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit After a voyage.' ‘ As You Like It.’ separately. Mix them with the other ingredi- ents. Bake the mixture in half-envelopes (old used ones will do) made to stand like boats by having the bottom corners pinched down. These must be buttered with clari- fied butter put on with a brush and orna- mented at the bottom with the cherries, chopped ; fill only half full, and bake for half an hour in a warm oven. When done, let them cool for a few minutes in the cases, then take these off, and keep the cakes in a dry place. HDClen ifiSiscuits. Half a pound of butter, three eggs, six ounces of sifted sugar, six ounces of currants, two ounces of candied peel, three-quarters of ‘ Never mind! what must be., must; Me?i must eat both C7'umb and a-ust. ’ ‘ Pen and Pencil Club.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 191 ‘ Where on earth shall I look for a 7neal ? For 1 haven't no dhmer to-day !’ ‘ Bau Ballads.’ a pound of dry flour, the grated rind of half a lemon, or a few drops of essence of lemon, or of almonds. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, the eggs well beaten, the flour, and then the rest of the ingredients. Mix thoroughly, and beat all together for five or six minutes. Drop the mixture from between two teaspoons on floured baking-sheets, and put into a hot oven. Bake until a pinky-brown colour. Before turning them on a sieve to cool, break one in two to see if properly cooked through. If not, return them to the oven for a short time, leaving the door ajar. These biscuits will keep some weeks if in an air-tight canister. The weary king was thaitkful, the poor 7na7i s loaf he took; He by hi77i sate, a7id, while he ate, his tears fell i7i the b7'ook.' Lockhart’s ‘ Spanish Ballads.’BREAD AND BISCUITS, ‘ jljid Beauty 7oon the loavering heart. By dint of pickle, and of tart d pRAED. Mbcatmeal HMuin=Cabc. One pound of wheatmeal, ten ounces of pounded sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of stoned and chopped raisins, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and chopped, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon-peel and eight eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, two at a time, whisking all the time to prevent them curdling. When quite smooth and light, which will be in about twenty minutes, scatter the Hour in a little at a time, and continue beating until it is all mixed in ; then add the raisins, almonds and peel. Line a ‘ two-pound ’ cake-tin with buttered paper ‘ Certain of the dishes, and especially the s7oeets and flans, A/adani Esmondp7'epared herself with great neatness and dexterity.' Thackeray.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 193 O ‘ First I go and make the patties, and the puddings, and the jellies.’ ‘Bab Ballads.' well above the sides ; pour in the mixture and bake at once in a hot oven. The time required will be from an hour and_a half to an hour and three-quarters, as wheat-meal cakes take longrer bakino- than white flour ones. o o Test the cake with a wooden skewer to see if it is baked through before removing it from the oven. When done, shake it carefully from the tin, and place it on a sieve to cool. These cakes should not be cut for three or four days after they are made. Suoai* Biscuits. Half a pound of fresh butter, one pound of flour, half a pound of pounded sugar, the grated rind of a large lemon. ‘ A pye 'which still retains its proper name. Though common gro'wn, yet, -with white sugar strow'd And butter'd right, its goodness is allowed.' ‘King’s Art of Cookery.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 194 ‘ A nd here each season do those cakes abide^ Whose honoured na7ties the inventive city oivn. Rendering through Bidtam's Isle SalopicCspi'aises known.’ Shenstone. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the flour by degrees, and lastly the lemon- peel ; when thoroughly mixed, roll out the dough very thin. Stamp out the biscuits with a round fluted cutter, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Mbeatineal Sbtewsburp Cakes* Half a pound of butter, one pound of wheatmeal, six ounces of pounded sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, two whole eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the wheat-meal by degrees, and the eggs one at a time. When thoroughly mixed, put in a cool place for two hours to set. Roll it out thin, cut into biscuits, and bake for twenty minutes. ‘ / will dance and eat phims at your wedding.' ‘Merry Wives of Windsor.’BREAD AND BISCUITS O 2 195 ‘ Atid see! zuhat a mountainous bride-cake !—a thing By itself-—zvith small pieces to pass through a ring /’ Inooldsby. One pound of pounded sugar, three-quarters of a pound of well-dried flour, the grated rind of a lemon, seven eggs, leaving unused the whites of two. Boil the sugar in a teacupful of water, and pour it on to the eggs, stirring briskly all the time. Whisk this for twenty minutes, or until it becomes quite stifT. Then add the flour gradually ; bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Test if cooked by a wooden skewer. TOebbino or Uwelftb (Take. One pound and a half of butter, one pound of sifted loaf-sugar, one pound and a half of ‘ “ Mind and send me a large piece of cake f I go up and zvhisper archly to old Mr. Ward.'—Thackeray.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 196 ‘ 'Mass, thou lovest plums 7vell. ’ ‘ 2 Henry VI.’ fine sifted flour, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, five ounces of candied peel, three ounces of Jordan almonds (blanched and split), ten eggs, one wineglassful of brandy or orange-flower water. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar. Have the eggs ready broken in a basin, taking the precaution to break each one in a cup separately to see that each is per- fectly fresh, beat them into the butter and sugar, and for ten minutes after they are mixed. Then add the brandy, flour, currants, raisins, and almonds, beating rapidly all the time with a strong wire whisk-spoon. Pour the mixture into a round, shallow cake-tin, lined with buttered paper standing an inch or ‘ And 710W fm'cwell each dainty dish, iVith sundjy sorts of sugared wine ; Farewell, 1 say, fine flesh and fish. To please this dainty mouth of mmeP Breton.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 197 ‘ He came as a Baker: but owned, when too late— And it drove the poor Bellma7i half-mad— two above its sides. Put it into a hot oven, and bake from two to three hours, allowing the oven to cool gradually the last hour. To test whether the cake is baked enough, run a wooden skewer through it. If the skewer comes out clean, with no cake adhering to it, the cake is done. Should a very dark colour be required for the cake, leave it in the oven for an hour or two after it is baked, with the door open. If the cake can be kept two or three months before it is used, it will be much improved. For use as a wedding-cake, it will require an inch or two of ‘ bliss ’ spreading over the top shortly before it is iced. The ‘ bliss’ is made of two pounds of almond flour, twenty bitter ‘‘He could only bake B^'ide-cake—-for which, I may state. No niaterials were to be had. ’ ‘ Hunting of the Snark.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 198 ‘ My cake is dough.' ‘ Taming of the Shrew.’ almonds, one pound six ounces of sifted white sugar, and sufficient orange-flower-water to mix it into a thick paste. Fasten a band of stiff writing-paper round the top of the cake, two inches high ; pour the bliss on the cake, and level it with a knife. Put the cake aside in a dry place for three or four days, when the bliss will be firm enough to ice over it. The icing consists of whites of eggs, worked with a new white wooden spoon into a rather stiff paste with ‘ icing-sugar ’ and lemon-juice. When this paste is mixed and beaten up suf- ficiently, the spoon will stand upright in it. The proportion of lemon-juice is two tea- spoonfuls to the whites of three eggs. Spread the icing evenly over the top and sides of the ‘ And the odour of that spicy cake came bcuk upon my recollection and the pleasure and the curiosity 1 had taken in seeing her make it.' . . . .—Ch. Lamb.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 199 ‘ / bought for a penny a two-penny loaf Of tv heat, and nothing tnored Praed. cake, and place it in a screen some distance from the fire, or in a warm closet, to dry. If the icing is required thick, it must be spread over at least two or three times, and allowed to dry between. Swiss IRolb Three eggs, six ounces of sugar pounded, three ounces of flour, a little lemon-peel grated. Break the yolks into a basin, add the sugar, and whisk together for ten minutes or more. Beat up the whites to a firm froth ; add this to the yolks and sugar and lemon- peel. When the froth is all mixed in, scatter in the flour, and continue beating for another ten minutes. Pour the mixture on a buttered and sugared baking-sheet, bake in a hot oven ‘ Ay, let the pure flour Be like the driven snow, bt-ight to the eye, And unadulterate. ’ Henry Pickering.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 200 ‘ Then he o-ied for goodly cheer. For segments of pork-pies, for sandwiches. For cake of Banlnny, and for bun of Bath.' ‘The Coming K— for five minutes. Turn the cake out care- fully on a cloth that the steam may not escape too rapidly and the cake become too crisp for rolling over; spread jam over it, and then take the edges and roll it over in the shape of a roly-pudding. When cool enough to retain its rolled form, put it in a covered tin box ready for use. It will improve by keep- ing a week. When served for dinner, the roll should be dished up whole ; when used for supper, it can be served cut in thick slices and arranged in a ring. (BetmnU (Inkc (for pudding course). Six ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of flour, three eggs, two ounces of sweet ‘ Intent on puddings and on puffs. ’ Praed.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 201 ‘ Your cake ]iere is warm within. ’ ‘Comedy of Errors.’ and eis'ht of bitter almonds blanched and pounded with one or two teaspoonfuls of orange-flower-water, butter for the baking- tin paper. Beat the yolks with the sugar until they become a light creamy colour ; whisk the whites to a stiff froth on a plate with the flat blade of a knife ; mix the almonds with the dry flour. To the yolk-cream stir in the whites of the eggs ; tnen add the flour, and stir round quickly until well mixed, but do not beat the mixture after the whites have been added. Have ready lined with buttered kitchen-paper two round shallow cake-tins, about seven inches in diameter. Pour the mixture in, and bake in a quick oven for five ‘ The carline brocht her kebbuck ben, IVi' girdle cakes weel-toasted bj'own.’ ‘Scottish Songs.’BREAD AND BISCUITS. 202 ‘‘Just in the nick the cook knock'd thrice, And all the zuaiters in a trice His summo7is did obey ; or ten minutes. Turn out immediately on a folded cloth, strip off the paper, and leave the cakes to cool. Ornament the top in alternate sections of cream and apricot-jam, and serve as a dinner or supper sweet. Passover Cake. Three eggs, five ounces of pounded sugar, six ounces of ground almond-flour, twelve bitter almonds blanched and pounded with a teaspoonful of the sugar. Whisk the yolks and sugar to a cream, and the whites to a firm froth ; stir the whites into the yolks and sugar, and when smoothly mixed drop in the almond-flour gradually, and stir round a few times. Bake in a hot oven in ‘ Each sei'vhtg man, with dish in hand. March'd boldly up, like our train'd band. Presented, and away. ’ Sir John Suckling.BREAD AND BISCUITS. 203 ‘ And the brotun loaf Lodged on the shelf, half eateji, ivithotU sauce Of savoury cheese, or butter, costlier still. ’ COWPER. two-inch deep tins (buttered) for ten minutes. Try if done by putting a wooden skewer through the cakes, and seeing that it is clear from soft cake when drawn out. Turn out, and place them to cool on a thickly-folded cloth. These cakes are better eaten fresh, as if kept a week or two the almond-flour may taste rancid. ‘ ‘ ‘ The dinner waits, and we are tired Said Gilpin—“ So am IT' ’ CoWPER.205 ‘ This will teach you their names, the ingredients they're 77iade of. And which to itidulge m, and which be afraid of' ‘ Ingoldsby Legends.’ 1 —0— (10 Ca battle Jfpuif. iH}0ru a la Xn^Juuatsc. iilatain Bert ait. i Xcmanatic (lilarfmi;,au Blinrrmr^at. B. Hagaut Se^asautttg. fiiJarppan (fait Bcsscttf). Cataa fitam ‘ Cataa- Ji'rceli Jviiit ^^nritp. Currant antt ilasp&ciiPiT Bitrs.’ 1 Jam. Puttitr^li Oi00S. JTi^uit Brib. Stalling-ipatuiJitr. 1 i i ! 1 ‘ For dimter savou7y fruits, of taste to please True appetite, and 7iot disrelish thirst Of nectareous draughts between.’’ Milton.MISCELLANEOUS. 207 ‘ All fish, fr07)1 sea or shore. Freshet or purlhig brook, or shell or Jin, A 7id equisitest name. ’ ‘ Paradise Regained.’ flDiscellaneoue. •<>• Uo Mbitebait As the success of whitebait-frying depends mainly on the freshness of the fish, order it to be sent in an hour or so before cooking. Drain the water from the bait through a colander; throw them on a thick cloth to drain still more. Have ready on the table another cloth thickly covered with fine dry flour; put the bait into this, gather up the two ends of the cloth with both hands ‘ Whoso seeks an audit here Propitious, pays his tidbiite, gaine or fish. Wild fowl or ve7tison.’ COWPER.MISCELLANEOUS. 208 ‘ 1 hat fish is a riddle. It's broke in the middle : A t urbot ! a fiddle ! 'Its only a bill!'—Hood. like a hammock, and move it gently back- wards and forwards until every fish is covered with flour and each is separate. Have ready some fresh lard, and when boiling drop in one of the bait to test it. If of the right heat, the bait will turn a bright brown and be crisp in a few seconds. Place the bait in a wire frying-basket the size to go into the saucepan, and hold it in the boiling lard until the bait is crisp and brown. Turn the bait out on a hair-sieve in front of the fire that all fat may drain off; dish up on a hot dish and doily, and serve with brown bread-and- butter and quartered lemons. Devilled whitebait is cooked in the same way, with the addition of salt and cayenne ‘ Its flavour when cooked is mo7'e exquisite far Than imitton, or oysters, or eggs' Lewis Carrol.MISCELLANEOUS. 209 P ‘ See I by the tallest servant hortie on high, A sturgeon fills the largest dish and eye. ’ Dryden. scattered over it before turning out of the basket. A small quantity only can be fried at a time, or the weight will make the bait adhere to each other. When a large quantity is wanted, several sieves should be ready be- fore the fire to drain the bait as it is taken from the fire. /IDoru a la X^onnaise. Put some slices of cod in hot water, boil five minutes, then drain, take out the bones, and flake the cod. Chop four small onions, fry them in butter with a bay-leaf; when nearly done, add the cod, and fry together gently for ten minutes to brown the fish. Serve with pepper, salt, ‘ A nd the fishes,— And saffron soups, and sweetbreads. Were of the finest that e'er flounced in nets. ’ Byron.MISCELLANEOUS. 210 ‘ To where the lemon atid the pierchig lime, With deep orange glowing through the green, Their lighter glories blend' Thomson. and chopped parsley over the top. Finish by squeezing the juice of a lemon over it, take out the bay-leaf, and serve. This is a good way of using cold cod, in which case omit the boiling. XcntOUnbC (Martineau Receipt). Eight lemons, three-quarters of a pound of lump-sugar, three quarts of water. Peel the lemons thinly into a jug, add the juice, squeezing through a strainer to prevent the pips falling in; pour over the peel and juice one quart of the water (boiling) ; cover with a cloth, and put away for twenty-four hours. Twelve hours before the lemonade is required for use dissolve the sugar in the ‘ With spirits of balm and fragrant syrups mix'd.' COMUS.MISCELLANEOUS. P 2 21 I ‘ Good thou, save 7ne a piece of 7na7'chpane.'’ ‘Romeo and Juliet.’ remaining water (cold and filtered) ; mix the two liquids together, strain, and it is ready for table. /IDaijipan ( FOR Dessert). Six ounces finely-sifted white sugar ; half a pound blanched and pounded sweet al- monds ; and six bitter almonds. Mix to a stiff paste with either rose or orange water. Roll out this paste to the third of an inch thick, on a sugared slab or board. Cut it out with any small fancy cutters, and lay the cakes on a dish to dry in a current of air; or, if preferred, bake them slightly in an oven with the door partly open. The freshest almonds must be used for the marzipan, or its delicacy will be lost. ' Attd sweetmeats made of subtle daitttinessd Edwin Arnold.MISCELLANEOUS. 2 I 2 ‘ The fruit that does so quickly waste. Men scarce can see it, much less taste. Thou comfitest hi streets, to make it last.' Cowley. jfresb jfruit Sprup. Equal weights in powdered sugar and fruit-juice ; squeeze the fruit through a kitchen cloth without picking it, but being careful that the fruit is fresh and free from mould. Weigh the juice, and put to it the same weight of powdered sugar ; leave it in a cool place for twelve hours, stirring it now and then that the sugar may not settle ; bottle it in pint or half-pint bottles; cork it down well, and seal the corks. This syrup will be good for a year or two, if kept in a cool place. Currant anb IRaspberr^ 3am. Put eight pounds of fresh raspberries and four pounds of lump sugar on the fire in a * Cranberry jam was reserved for tea and for special occasions. ’ Clough.MISCELLANEOUS. 213 ‘ WiVt please your honour taste of these conserves ?' ‘ Taming of the Shrew,’ large preserving pan ; whilst this is simmer- ing, squeeze through a cloth enough red or white currants—unpicked—to make one quart of juice ; add to this juice two pounds of powdered white sugar. When this is dis- solved, see that the raspberries are on the boiling point, and if so, pour the cold juice amongst them. Boil rapidly for twenty-five minutes, stirring seldom, that the colour may be preserved. Remove the jam from the fire, skim it carefully, and then pour it into pots, having them quite full. Whilst hot, cover them with kitchen paper, fastening the edges down with gum or white of egg. If put into a dry cupboard when the pots are quite cold, this jam will keep a year or ‘ A nd the young lady so bashful, it was near half an hotir before we could get her to finish a pint of raspberry betiveen us.' ‘The Good-Natured Man.’MISCELLANEOUS. 214 ‘ To bring me berries, or such cooling fruits As the kind hospitable woods provided COMUS. two, and will be of a fine colour and flavour. fnxit Hcib. Put sixteen pounds of carefully picked currants or raspberries into an earthen pan, with four quarts of cold filtered water; one pound of powdered sugar to clear it ; and a small quantity of salicylic acid.* Let this stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours, stirring it a few times. Bottle it in wine- bottles, filling them to within an inch of the top ; cork tightly and seal over, so that no air can penetrate. This acid will keep a year, * Any good chemist will supply the proper quantity of this acid, if told how many quarts or gallons it is re- quired for. ‘ Good fruite and good plenty, doth well ht thy loft: Then lay for an orcharde and cherish it oft. The profit is mickell, the pleasure is mutch ; At pleasure with profit, few luise men will grutch.' Tusser.MISCELLANEOUS. 215 ‘ And turns to comfits by his arts To tnake 7ue relish for desserts. ’ IIUDIBRAS. and is useful for making rugrod or fruit charlottes. XTo Bottle ifnut. Pick and wash the fruit ; put it carefully into wide-necked bottles, and fill up with cold filtered water. Place the bottles in a screen before the fire, turning them round from time to time as the fruit appears to be cooked and soft on the fire-side. Gooseberries, plums, and cherries will take about fourteen hours to cook ; currants less time. When done, pour a teaspoonful of olive oil, or some melted mutton fat, into the neck of each bottle, having pre- viously used the fruit of one or two bottles to fill up the others as high as possible. Cover over, while hot, with bladder, tied tightly ‘ Fair acid-fruits in 7iets above ivere seen. Her plate zaas spleztdid, aztd her glasses cleafi ; Bashis a7id bowls were 7-eady on the stand, A7id 77teasures clatter'd hi her pozve7-ful hand.' Crabbe.MISCELLANEOUS. 216 ‘ Miss Hardcastle. Nectar! Nectar! That's a liquor there's no call for in these parts.' ‘She Stoops to Conquer.’ down, and when quite cold put away for winter use. If not convenient to cook the fruit in a screen, the bottles can be set in a panful of cold water up to their necks on the stove, and allowed to remain until the water is on the boiling point and the fruit is soft. It is better not to place hay in the saucepan to steady the bottles, as there are germs in it which may get into the bottles and affect the keeping of the fruit. This way of bottling insures the fruit retaining its fresh flavour if care has been taken to have the fruit fresh gathered. IRaisin IRectar. t Six ounces of whole raisins; peel of a small lemon ; eight cloves ; one quart of water. ‘ And bright grapes ere yet Accursed fire their mild juice could ti-ansmute Into a mortal bane.' Shelley.miscb:llaneous . 217 ‘ Though we eat little Jlesh and drink no wine Yet %ve'll be merry: we'll have tea and toast. Stew these together in a covered jar all night in a cooling oven. When the raisins have swelled out and have no longer any taste when put in the mouth, the nectar is ready for straining. It can be put in a corked bottle and kept in a cool place for two days, but not longer. fUMncemeat. li)» Two pounds of butter; three pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped fine ; one pound and a half of currants, washed and dried ; two pounds of Demerara sugar ; the rinds of four lemons; six pounds of winter apples, peeled and chopped fine ; the juice of one lemon ; one pound of candied orange and ‘ Custards for supper, and an e7idless host Of syllabubs and jellies atid mince piesl Shelley.MISCELLANEOUS. ‘ Withouten baked meat never 7vas his house, Of fish andfiesh, and that so plenteous. It snowed in his house of meat and drink.' Chaucer. lemon peel, mixed ; twenty bitter and forty sweet almonds, blanched, and pounded with the sugar ; four nutmegs ; twenty cloves, and a small blade of mace pounded fine. Melt the butter in a large basin near the fire, and having all the ingredients chopped or pounded fine, mix them into the batter one after another, adding the spices last. Let the mincemeat remain twenty-four hours before putting it in pots. Should the apples be of a sour kind, more sugar may have to be added after the twenty-four hours, but this addition depends on taste. This mince- meat does not require any brandy to keep it, and is excellent in either hot or cold mince- pies, or as filling for Banbury cakes. ‘ Mincing of meat, as in pies, and buttered mince meat saveth the grindmg of the teeth.'—Bacon. 2I8MISCELLANEOUS. 219 ‘ So he boils the water, and takes the salt A ltd the pepper in portio7is tj'iic ( Which he 7iever forgot). IRaoout Seasonino. One ounce marjoram : one ounce parsley ; half ounce basil ; half ounce thyme; half ounce bay-leaf; half ounce winter savoy ; two ounces nutmeg ; two ounces cloves; one ounce mace ; one ounce white pepper; one ounce cayenne pepper. Dry the herbs in a warm closet or in a screen before the fire; pound them in a mortar, and pass through a sieve. Treat the spices in the same way and mix with herbs. Put the powder in small bottles and cork tightly for store. For kitchen use, three- quarters of an ounce of this must be mixed with half a pound of dry salt, and be kept in ‘ A7td so77ie chopped shalot, And so7)ie sage a7idparsley too.' ‘ Bab Ballads.’MISCELLANEOUS. 220 ‘ Good broth, and good keeping, do much now and then : Good diet, with 7uisdom, best co7ufo7-teth 77ie7t.’ Tusser. a covered box or bottle, that the fragrance may be preserved. Cocoa from ‘ Cocoa^TObs/ One and a half ounce of cocoa-nibs ; one quart of cold water. Simmer gently for five or six hours in a covered saucepan kept for this purpose only. When the cocoa is reduced to about half the quantity, strain it through a fine colander and put it aside, to be warmed up when required for use. If required quickly, the cocoa-nibs can be pounded and simmered for two hours only, though the flavour will not be so good as if the longer time is given. To be fresh, it should be made daily. ‘ The7'e's breakfast they Jmow— There always is so On occasio7ts like these, wheresoever you go.' Ingoldsby.MISCELLANEOUS. 221 ‘ No poignant sauce she knezu, nor costly treat. Her hunger gave a relish to her meat.' Dryden. Buttereb Boos, Two eggs; two tablespoonfuls of milk; half an ounce of butter ; a pinch of salt. Beat the eggs and milk together with the salt ; melt the butter in a frying-pan or stew- pan ; pour the eggs on to it, and beat with a spoon until they have set, but are not too firm or burnt. They will require about five minutes. Serve on thin buttered toast as hot as possible. Bafuu(5=lPowbei\ One pound ground rice ; half a pound carbonate of soda; quarter of a pound of tartaric acid. Dry these ingredients and ‘ They sat down to the meal: and broiled ham, eggs, tea, coffee, and sundries began to disappear with a rapidity zuhich at once bore testimony to the excellence of the fare and the appetites of its constmiers.'—DiCKENS.MISCELLANEOUS. 222 ‘ And now, all orders dtie, farewell! My table laid when it zvas noon ; My heavy heart it irks to tell My dainty dinners all are done.'—Breton. pound them, should they be lumpy; mix them well together ; keep the powder in tightly-fitting tin boxes in a dry place. ‘ Rise, sirs ; no more of feasting, herel Sir Henry Tayi.or.223 ‘ So co7itrived as not to mix Tastes not well join'd, inelegant, but bring Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change.' Milton. ‘ Utierring presages declare The banquet near ; Soon busy appetites are there.' Ralph Hoyt. Ir TT3 y t p ■ A ••‘i • A /» V Ibi •" & J> i *(ift >MENUS. 225 Q ‘ Will your majesty look at this bill of fare ‘Bombastes Furioso.’ ‘ 3/y lord, will't please you to fall to T ‘Richard II.’ I. Jenny Lind Soup. Lentil Steak. Stufied Tomatoes. Caramel Pudding. Apple Sea-urchin. 2. Scotch Broth. Quenelles a la Jardiniere. CEufs aux Petits Pois. Wandsworth Soufflee. Rugrod. ‘ Not chaos-like together crushed and bruised. But as the world, harmoniously confused. Where order in variety we see, And where, though all things differ, all agree.’ Pope.MENUS. ‘ All covered dishes ! Royal cheer I ivarrant yoti.' ‘Timon of Athens.’ o- Haricot Puree. Barley Cutlets. Neapolitan Croquettes. Golden Pudding. Semolina a la Fran9aise. Cheese Wafers. 4* Soup Maigre. Lentil Cutlets. Stuffed Cucumber. Rice Cup-puddings. Pain d’Abricot. ‘ Some hae meat and canna eat, And some wad eat that want it ; But zue hae meat and we can eat, And sae the Lord be thankit' Burns,MENUS. 227 Q 2 ‘ She fetched him meat a7id drynke plenty. Like a tmie zvedded wyfc. ’ ‘Adam Bell.’ 5- Julienne Soup, CEufs aux Asperges. Creme d’Avoine. Macaroni and Cheese. Chester Pudding. Tapioca Blancmange, 6. Peapod Soup. Savoury Cones. Scalloped Tomatoes. Queen of the Ocean. Macaroni Arabesque. ‘ Szveets—and szveet looks zuere sUidied then, A nd both zvere pleasing to the men ; For cookery zvas allied to taste. And girls wei'e taught to blush—and basted Praed.MENUS. 228 ‘ And with some dainty food shalt thoii be fed' Wm. Morris. 7* Lentil Soup. Rice Cutlets. Stuffed Mushrooms. French Pancakes. Rose Blancmange. Rice Soup. Count Rumford Hash. Egg Barrioles. Cheese Pastry. Wafer Puddings. Ginger Blancmange. ‘ Oh, those melons? If he's able JVe're to have a feast, so nice ! Otte goes to the Abbot's table. All of tis get each a slice.' Robt. Browning.MENUS. 229 ‘ Indeed, Boll, I know not how 'tis, but in grief I have always found eating a wondrous relief I M0(5re. 9- Mulligatawny Soup. Creme Ponaire. Celery Piquant. Angel Puddings. Lemon Soufflee. lO. Celestine Soup. Lentil Collops. Casseroles of Mushrooms. Tomatoes and Macaroni au Gratin. Queen’s Rice. Lemon Custards. ‘ “ You have," quoth he, ''‘no apple fraise or pie. Stewed pears, with bread and milk and walnuts by ?” ’ Hartlib.MENUS. 230 ‘ Simply let those, like him of Samos, live ; Let herbs to them a bloodless banquet give. In beechen goblets let their beverage shine. Cool from the crystal spring their sober wine.'—Covvper. I I. Mock Turtle Soup. Lentil Creme. Scalloped Mushrooms. Arrowroot Cup-puddings. Prune Jelly. I 2. Mushroom Soup. Neapolitan Timbal. Lentil Croquettes. Mont Blanc Pudding. Nichol’s Blancmange. ‘ Let your swelling creams encircled be With sivelling fruit just ravished from the tree.' King.ERRATA.] On title-page,' Lucille’ read ‘ Lucile.' Page 208, {qo\, for ‘ Lewis Carrol ’ read ‘ l..ewis Carroll.’2311 ■ n; 4 2 ' iJ; •• 4 IINDEX. 233 ‘ It will never do, sir. There is nothing served there, neither tea, nor coffee, nor anythmg whatever : 3nt>ey. >o>< Bread and Biscuits PAGE 165 Bread-making 167 Easter Cakes 185 Envelope... 189 French Bread 177 German Cake 200 Helen Biscuits ... 190 Household Bread 175 Lancashire Jumbles 188 Milk or Dinner Rolls ... 178 Passover Cake 202 Pound Cake 181 Scones 184 Short Cake 180 Sponge Cake 195 Sugar Biscuits 193 Swiss Roll 199 Wafer Biscuits ... 187 Wedding Cake ... 195 Wheatmeal Bread (with Yeast) ... 172 Wheatmeal Bread (with Baking Powder) 174 Wheatmeal Plum Cake ... 192 ,, Biscuits 185 PAGE Bread and Biscuits [con- tinued): Wheatmeal Shrewsbury Cakes ... ... ... 194 Yeast ... ... ... 170 Entrees 49 Barley Cutlets ... ... 78 Beef Collops ... ... 55 Cahacte Barla ... ... 53 Casseroles ... ... 84 Celery Piquante ... ... 68 Count Rumford’s Hash ... 82 Creme d’Avoine ... ... 60 ,, de Volaille ... 52 ,, Ponaise ... ... 65 Croquettes of Lentils ... 74 Egg Darrioles ... ... $9 Fish Puddings ... ... 49 Gibelotte of Rabbit ... 57 Haricot Cahacte Barla ... 67 Kromeskies ... ... 58 Lentil Collops .. ... 73 ,, Creme 73 ,, Cutlets ... .. 71 ,, Steak ... ... 69 and depend up07i it, sir, a man does not like to go to a place from whe?tce he comes otit exactly as he went ini—^Johnson’s ‘Table Talk.’INDEX. 234 ‘ Here, if our ATuse we did 7iot check first, IVe might go 07i a?td sing of breakfast.' John Trumhall. PAGE PAGE Entrees [continued): Sauces 8 Neapolitan Croquettes ... 61 Anchovy-toast Sauce 13 ,, Timbal 63 Bechamel Sauce ... 17 (Eufs aux Petites Pois ... 83 Cheese Sauce 20 Pastry Lentil Rolls 50 Curry Sauce 14 Prussian Cutlets ... 54 Dutch Sauce 11 Quenelles a la Jardiniere 79 Fish Sauce 8 Ramequins d’Artichauts... 94 Jardiniere Sauce ... 18 Rice Cutlets 81 Lentil Sauce 16 Savoury Cones ... 76 Mayonnaise Sauce 10 .Scalloped Mushrooms ... 91 Mushroom Sauce 13 ,, Tomatoes 92 Piquante Sauce ... 12 Stuffed Cucumber 86 Raisin Nectar Sauce 19 ,, Mushrooms 89 Tomato Sauce 15 1 ,, Tomatoes 93 White Sauce 9 Tomatoes aux Oil!fs 94 1 Menus 225 Savouries 99 1 Miscellaneous 207 Canapes Supreme 107 Baking Powder .. 221 Cauliflower with Cheese Bottled Fruit 215 Sauce ... 103 Buttered Eggs ... 221 Cheese Macaroni 102 Cocoa from Nibs... 220 ,, Pastry 104 Currant and Raspberry Jam 212 ,, Porridge ... 103 Fresh Fruit Syrup 212 ,, Wafers 104 Fruit Acid 214 Chestnut Stuffing io5 Lemonade 210 Potted Haricot Beans ... 108 Marzipan... 211 Savoury Lentils ... 109 Mincemeat 217 ,, Spinach... 110 Moru a la Lyonnaise 209 Tomatoes and Macaroni Raisin Nectar 216 au Gratin 99 Ragout Seasoning 219 Winter Savoury of Dried Whitebait, To fry 207 Peas too ‘ Will you partake of stick fruits as I have gathered ?’ Otway.INDEX. ‘ This is 7uy store. I have no mo7-e, I heartily do give it, — PAGE PAGE Soups 25 Sweets {continued): Barley Soup. V. 43 Devonshire Junket 131 Celestine Soup. V. 42 French Pancakes 120 Chestnut Soup. V. 31 Filling for Cheesecakes ... 125 Haricot Puree. V. 30 Ginger Pudding ... 117 Jenny Lind Soup. V. ... 25 ,, Cream 148 Julienne Soup. V. 3« Golden Pudding ... 123 Mock Game Soup. V.... 27 Iced Cabinet Pudding 161 ,, Turtle Soup. V. 33 Iced Soufflee 159 Mulligatawny Soup. V. 36 Italian Curds 157 Mushroom Soup. V. ... 45 Lemon Creams ... 154 Pea-Pod Soup. V. 32 ,, Custards ... 132 Rice Soup. V. ... 39 „ Soufflee (cold) ... 141 Scotch Broth. V. 40 Macaroni Arabesque 150 Soup Maigre. V. 35 Mont Blanc Pudding 114 Stocks Brown Stock Fish Stock Vegetarian Stock White Stock Sweets Almond Custard Pudding Angel Pudding ... Apricot Sea Urchin Arrowroot Cup Pudding: Caramel Pudding Chocolate Pudding Chester Pudding... Cocoanut Pudding Coventry Tartlets Cup Rice Puddings 3 6 6 7 5 113 128 127 151 131 116 119 121 139 124 152 Nectar Flummery Nichol’s Blancmange Pain d’Apricot ... Plum Pudding Prune Jelly Queen’s Rice Queen of the Ocean Pud- ding ... Reform Cabinet ... Rose Blancmange Rugrod Semolina a la Fran9aise Snow Rice Tapioca Blancmange Wafer Puddings ... Wandsworth SoufBee 155 146 129 137 156 149 140 136 U3 142 134 144 145 153 135 ‘ My years are spun. My days are done. And so I think to leave it.'BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. 6-. H.