3obn W. ^autli.I) A COMPENDIUM ANATOMY. . *.I COMPENDIUM OF THE ANATOM OF THE HUMAN BODY. INTENDED PRINCIPALLY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. IN THREE VOLUMES, WITH PLATES. FIFTH EDITION* ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. TO WHICH IS NOW ADDED, A FOURTH VOLUME, CONTAINING OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. By ANDREW FYFE. VOL. III. EDINBURGH: Printed by J. Pillans is1 Sons, FOR ADAM BLACK, SOUTH BRIDOE STREET, EDINBURGH; AND THOMAS UNDERWOOD, 82. FLEET STREET, AND 40. WEST SM1THF1ELD, LONDON. 1812,•7PllOt 4 m'\M a\ja, s 1 i , ^ »..< * t \CONTENTS THIRD VOLUME, PART V. V 1 . . y,. J[\ , « t*1 * * ’ r . 'A I ,i t. . OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Pag. Or the Blood-vessels in General, - 3 Distribution op the Blood-vessels, - 12 Of the Pulmonary Artery and Veins, - ib. General Course of the Aorta and Vena Cava, 13 Blood-vessels of the Head, and Part of those of the Neck, - - - 15 The Remaining Blood-vessels of the Neck, with those of the Superior Extremity in General, - - - - 45 - Blood-vessels within the Thorax, - 62 of the Diaphragm, - 67 I • *■ —— of the Chylopoietic and » Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera, - 69 Blood-Vi CONTENTS. Pag. Blood-vessels of the Organs of Urine and, Generation, - 80 of the Containing Parts of the Abdomen, and of the Pelvis and Inferior Ex- tremity, - - 89 PART VI. OF THE ABSORBENT SYSTEM. * I J. f i. L Of the Absorbents in General, - 121 Of the Particular Absorbents, - - 127 PART VII. OF THE NERVES. Of the Nerves in General, - - 153 Distribution of the Nerves, - - 158 Nerves which pass through the Base of the Cranium, - - ib. Spinal Marrow, and Origin of the Spinal Nerves, - - - - 183 Nerves of the Neck and Superior Extre- mity, - - - 190 NervesCONTENTS. vii Pag, Nerves within the Thorax, - - 205 of the Chylopoietic and Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera, - 214- - ■ ■ • of the Organs of Urine and Gene- ration, - - - 216 of the Loins, Pelvis, and Inferior Extremity, - - 220 Glossary, ----- 233 Index, - 259 / *- - , *PART V, OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS, Vox.. III. A; ■ I .A 2 The OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS IN GENERAL. Phe Blood-vessels are divided into Arteries and Veins. Arteries. The Arteries are Elastic Canals, which convey the Blood from the Heart to the different parts of the Body, and are distinguished from the Veins by their Pulsation. The Original Trunks of the Arteries, or those which arise from the Heart, are Two in number,—the Pul- monary Artery and Aorta. From these all the other Arteries are derived. The Arteries are dispersed over the whole Body, and are every where surrounded with Cellular Substance. The Principal Trunks run in the Centre or deepest parts of the Body and Extremities, where they are least exposed to danger, deriving support or defence from the Bones along which they pass.,4 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The largest Arteries go to the Viscera, within the Great Cavities, the smaller ones to the Skin and Muscles, and those still smaller to the Bones, and, in certain places, they become so extremely minute as altogether to exclude the Red Blood, carrying a Colourless Fluid only. The Arteries are distinguished from the Veins, by the whiteness of their Colour, and thickness of their Coats. They are composed of different Layers or Coats, which are readily separated by Dissection. In several parts of the Body, as in the Posterior Me- diastinum, they are surrounded by a Membrane, com- mon to them and to the neighbouring Viscera. In other parts of the Body, especially in young Sub- jects, they are surrounded with so much Cellular Sub- stance, as to give them the appearance of being inclosed in Sheaths. The first of the proper Coats is the External Mem- branous, or Cellular, called also by some Authors the Nervous Coat. In the large Arteries, this Coat is frequently furnish- ed with Fat, and is of a very elastic nature. Owing to this Elasticity, the Arteries, in receiving the Blood from the Heart, become dilated and elongated, and start from their place, which forms the Pulse, called also the Dias- tole of the Arteries. The Second, or Middle, or Muscular Coat, is com- posed of Fibres running in a Transverse direction,—of a pale red colour •,—each Fibre appearing to form only the Segment of a Circle, although the whole constitutes a Cylinder round the Artery. The Fibres of the Second Coat are closely compacted together^PartV.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 5 together, and formed into Layers, which can be sepa- rated from each other, especially in the Great Arteries, and still more particularly in those of large Animals. By the contractility of this, and the Elastic nature of the former Coat, the Arteries are enabled to drive the Blood to the Veins, in proportion as they receive it from the Heart;—and this Con traction is called the Systole of the Arteries. The Third, or Inner Coat, is formed of a transparent Membrane, remarkably thin, smooth, and dense, by which the Blood is prevented from transuding. The different Coats of the Arteries are connected to each oilier by fine Cellular Substance, which some Au- thors have considered as forming so many Lamellae. The Arteries are supplied with their own Blood-ves- sels, termed Vasa Vasorum, which come from the nearest small Branches, and are every where dispersed upon their external Surface. They have also their Lymphatics, which, on the Large Arteries, as the Aorta, are so numerous as sometimes to cover them. They are likewise furnished with small Nerves, form- ing, in some parts of the Body, a Plexus, which vanishes in their external Coat. There are no Valves belonging to the Arteries, ex- cepting those which are placed at the Mouths of the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta. V here the Arteries run a certain way without send- ing off Branches, they are observed to be of a Cylindri- cal form ; but where Branches come off, their capacity A 3 is6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. is diminished, and this is in proportion to the number of their Ramifications. Wherever an Artery divides into two Branches, the Area of these two Branches, taken conjunctly, is found to be nearly one half larger than the Area of the Trunk from which they issue. When the Trunk and Branches of an Artery are re- garded collectively, they appear evidently ot a Conical figure -, the point of the Cone being formed by the Trunk, and the Basis by the Branches of the Artery. The Section of the Arteries is Circular;—when emp- ty, they become Fiat, but recover their round form upon being distended by Injection. The Angles at which the Branches go off from their Trunks are in general more obtuse or acute, in propor- tion to their vicinity to the Heart, and are‘such as are most favourable to the parts they have to supply. In the Trunk of the Body, or where they belong to tender and de licate Viscera, the Angles are more obtuse, —in the Extremities they are more acute; the former circumstance tending to diminish, and the latter to in- crease, the lorcc ol the Blood. The Arteries form many Divisions and Subdivisions before they reach their Terminations, and at last be- come invisible to the naked Eye. The Divisions formed by any single Artery have been variously enumerated b} different authors,—one, in par- ticular, reckoning them at forty, and another, of equal respectability, only at twenty ; their number, however, js such as to allow them to supply the most minute parts pf the Body. ThgFart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 7 The strength of the Arteries depends upon the thick- ness of their Coats, which is found to vary in different Arteries.—In the Aorta, the Coats are thick and strong; —in the Arteries of the Brain and Spleen, they are thin and tender ;—but the thickness and consequent strength are proportionally greater in the small Branches than in the large Trunks. The Arteries run more or less in a waving direction, which breaks the force of the Blood in them, and pre- vents them from being strained by the motions of the parts to which they belong. The Flexions are most frequent in Arteries belonging to parts, the size and situation of which are changeable. The Windings of many of the Arteries are in pro- portion to the degree in which they are distended ; those which are nearly straight in their natural state, frequently becoming serpentine when their distension is increased, Several of the large Arteries form Communications with each other, termed by Anatomists Anastomoses; but the Anastomoses are more frequent among the small Branches, where they form a Plexus which lessens the danger of Obstruction. The Anastomoses are more frequent in the Skin and Membranous Parts. In the Solid Viscera, the Arteries run in a different manner, being in some crowded to- gether in the form of Trees or Bushes, in others having a Serpentine appearance, and in several forming Peni- villi, according to the disposition of the part. lhe Arteries obtain their particular names from their Situations, Place of Destination, &c. and the term Ca~ A 4 pillary,3 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The pillaryi as expressive of their smallness, is applied to their minutest Branches. The Diameters of the different Trunks and Branches of the Arteries, vary much in different parts of the Body; but those of the Capillaries are more nearly equal to each other. The Arteries terminate in the following manner, viz. In Red Veins, as is observed by the assistance of the Microscope and by Injections: In Glands or Follicles, by Secretory Ducts, which se- parate a Fluid from the general Mass of Blood : In Exhalent Vessels, which discharge their Contents into the Internal Cavities, or upon the External Sur- face of the Body: In colourless or Lymphatic Branches, which are af- terwards continued to the Circulating Veins, as in the Cart lages and Cornea. The Use of the Arteries is to convey Blood from the Heart to the different parts of the Body: To assist in converting the Chyle into Blood: To nourish the Body, and promote its Growth: To assist in preserving the Fluidity of the Blood, and the Heat and Life of the Body: To form the different Secretions; and, To renew the Growth of Parts destroyed by Accident or Disease. Veins. The Veins are Elastic Flexible Tubes, returning the Blood from the different parts of the Body to the Heart, =—and have no Pulsation. *■ i< . .9 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Coats of the Veins are the same in number with those of the Arteries, but are thinner, denser, and less elastic. Their Coats are thicker, however, propor- tionally in the small Branches than in the Trunks. In the large Veins, as the Vena Cava, the Coats can be separated from each other; bpt in the small Branches their separation is difficult. The Muscular Coat of the Veins being loose like Cel- lular Substance, much thinner, and more indistinct than that of the Arteries, has occasioned its existence to be denied by many Authors. The Veins are also furnished with their Vasa Vasorum, similar to, and from the same source with those of the Arteries. The Colour of the Veins is bluish, and when full of Blood, in consequence of their thinness, they appear of a purple tinge. Their Size is move than double that of the Arteries to which they belong-, excepting the Pulmonary Veins, the size of which scarcely surpasses that of the corre- sponding Arteries. In the Fleshy parts of the Body, particularly in the extremities, they consist of Two Sets; one Deep-sea led, accompanying the Arteries, the other running imme- diately under the Skin, and termed Subcutaneous. The Veins of the Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera generally accompany their Arteries; and the same is observable in the small Bi'anches belonging to Membra- nous parts. The Figure of the Veins is similar to that of the Ar- teries; and, upon comparing the Area of their Trunks with10 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. with the collective Area of their Branches, like them, too, they are perceived to he Conical; the Base of the Cone being formed by the Branches, and the Apex by the Trunks. The size and number of the Veins is so much greater than that of their corresponding Arteries, that when the Vessels of a Membranous Part are distended by an In- jection of different colours, the Veins are observed in a great measure to conceal the Arteries: In the Intestines, however, the number of the Arteries and Veins is near- ly equal. There is much greater variety among the Trunks of Veins, with respect to Situation and Division into Branches, than is observable among the Arteries. The variety in Nature, in this respect, is such, that the Veins of every Subject differ a little from those of another. , , The Veins are capable of suffering greater distension than the Arteries, yet are more frequently ruptured. The Anastomoses are greater and more frequent in Veins than in Arteries ; those of the former being often by large Trunks, whereas those of the latter, excepting in a few places, are by small Branches only. Where the Veins are exposed to Muscular action, theyare furnished with Valves, which are Semilunar Folds continued from the inner side of the Vessels, and placed in Pairs at irregular distances. The Valves are Concave towards the Heart, and, when closed or applied to each other, represent a figure Somewhat like that of the shut end of a Thimble. Between the Valves and sides of the Veins next the Heart,H PartV.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Heart, the Blood insinuates itself; and Cavities are formed, termed Sinuses of the Valves, which appear ex- ternally in the form of Varices. The Valves are generally found in the Fleshy parts of the Body, but are chiefly situated in the Veins of the Extremities. They are wanting in the Veins of the Deep-seated Viscera, viz. in those of the Brain and Spinal Marrow, in those of the Lungs, in the System of the Vena Portae, and in those of the Kidneys, Bladder, and Ute- rus. They exist, however, in the Spermatic Veins, and sometimes in the Internal Mammary Veins, and in the Branches of the 'Vena Azygos. The Valves direct the Blood towards the Heart, and prevent Regurgitation. The Veins convey the Blood from the extremities of the Arteries, with the Chyle and Lymph from the Abv (sorbents to the Heart. j i DISTRI-12 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Of the Pulsionary Artery and Veins. The Pulmonary Artery, nearly of the same size with the Aorta, arises from the Kight Ventricle of the Heart, and ascends behind the Sternum, and within the Peri- cardium, inclining a little to the left side. Having run as high as the concave side of the Arch of the Aorta, it divides into Right and Left Lateral Branches, which terminate in the corresponding sides of the Lungs. The Right Branch, which is the largest, passes be- hind the Curvature of the Aorta and the Superior Vena Cava, and is of course also the longer of the two. The two Branches are dispersed throughout the Sub- stance of the Lungs, by Ramifications which accompany those of the Bronchi, and, becoming gradually smaller, terminate upon the Pulmonary Cells. From the extreme Branches of the Pulmonary Arte- ry, the Blood is returned by corresponding Veins. The Pulmonary Veins run contiguous to the Arteries, but, unlike the other Veins in general, are nearly of the same size with their Arteries. In their course they unite into larger Branches, which, after leaving the Lungs, form Four Principal Trunks,— twoI Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSEL^ is two from the Right, and two from the Left Lung,— which, after perforating the Pericardium, terminate in the Left Auricle of the Heart, at its upper and lateral parts ; of these Trunks one is Superior, and the other Inferior, on each side. The Superior passes before the corresponding Artery, the Inferior behind the Branches of the Trachea. The Trunks of the Veins of the Right Side, like their Artery, are longer than those of thr Left. General Course of the Aorta and Vena Cava. The Aorta arises behind the Pulmonary Artery, from the upper and back part of the Left Ventricle of the Heart, opposite the third Vertebra of the Thorax, and sends off, at its Origin, the Coronary Arteries formerly described. Where it takes its Origin, it turns a little to the right, and is afterwards directed upwards, backwards, and towards the left side. It ascends as far as the top of the second Dorsal Ver- tebra, under the name of Aorta Ascendens, and is after- wards reflected obliquely backwards over the root of the left Branch of the Trachea, till it reaches the third Vertebra of the Back, forming what is termed Curva- ture or Arch of the Aorta. It then commences Aorta Descendens, which runs down close upon the Spine, till it reaches the Fourth Vertebra of the Loins, where it divides into the Two Iliac Arteries. The Thoracic portion of the Aorta Descendens is si- tuatedH. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. tuated on the fore and left part of the Spine, between the Layers of the Posterior Mediastinum. Where it passes from the Thorax to the Abdomen, it goes between the long Crura of the Diaphragm, after which it descends more immediately upon the fore-part of the Vertebrae. The Aorta sends off Arteries which carry Blood to the different parts of the Body, from whence it is re- turned by Veins to the Inferior and Superior Vena* Cavae, excepting what passes to the Coronary Vessels. The Inferior Cava is formed by the union of the two Venae Iliacae, upon the last Vertebra of the Loins, a little below the termination of the Descending Aorta. It is situated upon the fore part of the Spine, and at the right side of the Aorta, which it accompanies for a considerable way through the Abdomen. Near the upper end of the Abdomen, it recedes from the Aorta, and passes behind the large Lobe of the Liven It perforates the Diaphragm in its Tendinous part, and having entered the Pericardium, it goes immediate- ly into the right Auricle of the Heart. The Inferior Cava receives the Blood from the Infe- rior Extremities, from the Pelvis and Abdomen, and carries it to the Heart. The Superior Cava, formed by the union of the two Great Venae Subclaviae, with the addition of the Vena Azygos,—is situated in the upper part of the Thorax, upon the right side of, and a little more anteriorly than the Ascending Aorta. It begins behind the Cartilage of the first Rib, some- what.Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 15 what higher than the Arch of the Aorta, and has at first a small inclination towards the right side. After descending about an inch, it perforates the Pe- ricardium, and having run nearly twice, this space, it enters the Right Auricle, opposite to the termination of the Inferior Cava. The Superior Cava receives the Blood from the Head, Neck, Arms, and Containing Parts of the Thorax, and also carries it to the Heart. BLOOD-VESSELS of the HEAD, and PART OF THOSE OF THE NECK. Arteries. From the upper side of the Arch of the Aorta, Three Targe Arteries arise, which supply the Head, Neck, and Superior Extremities. . Of these Three Arteries, one on the right side, term- ed Innominata, or Communis, soon divides into the Right Carotid, and Right Subclavian Artery. The other two are the Left Carotid, and Left Subcla- vian, which come off in separate Trunks. The above is the ordinary way in which the Carotids and Subclavians come off from the Aorta, but there is considerable variety in this respect in different Bodies. Sometimes there are two Common Trunks from which these Arteries take their rise ; at other times there are four original Arteries from the Aorta, and in some rare caseslb' COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. cases, the Right Subclavian comes off from the left end of the Arch of the Aorta. Carotid Arteries.—The Carotid Arteries, after emerging from the Thorax, ascend upon the fore part of the Vertebrae, on eacli side of the Neck, between the Trachea and Internal Jugular Veins, and behind the Sterno-Mastoidei, gradually receding from each other, and getting upon the fore part of the Longug Colli, and Rectus Capitis Interims Major, on each side. In the Neck, they do not send off any Branches till they reach the top of the Larynx, where each, opposite to the Os Hyoides, though in some rare instances much lower, divides into External and Internal Carotid Arte- ries, the former supplying the upper part of the Neck, and the outei parts of the Head, the latter the Brain. The External Carotid, sometimes termed Facial Carotid, is placed more anteriorly, and nearer the La- rynx, than the Internal, which lies deeper, and is, at its root, the larger of the two. The External, though smaller than the other, appears as a continuation of the common Trunk. It runs up behind the Angle of the Lower Jaw, un- der the Digastricus and Slylo-EIyoideus, towards the Temple, and in its passage before the Ear, is sunk deep in the Substance of the Parotid Gland, which it supplies in its course, and is divided into the following principal Branches, viz. The Arteria Laryngea Superior, Gutturalis Superior, vel Thyroidea Superior, which comes off from the Root of the External Carotid, and sometimes from the top of the Common Carotid. It passes downwards and forwards in a Winding di- rection,11 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. rection, under the Omo-PIyoideus and Sterno-Thyroi- deus, and sends Branches to the Muscles under the Os Hyoides, and to the Bone itself, and Ligament connecting it to the Larynx. Branches to the Sterno-Mastoidcus, Platysma Myoi- des, Jugular Glands, and Skin near the Larynx : * The Laryngeal Branch to the Cartilages, Muscles, and Membranes peculiar to the Larynx : The Thyroid Branch, which is the continuation of the Trunk, dispersed upon the Substance of the Thyroid Gland : The Branches of the Laryngeal Artery com- municate with their fellows on the opposite side : The Anastomoses of the Thyroid Branches, however, are small compared with the rest: The Artekia Lingualis, which is sent off imme- diately above the former:—It runs near the Pharynx, first forwards and upwards over the corresponding Cor- nu of the Os Hyoides, and under the Hyo-Glossus, then in a direction towards the under qnd fore part of the Tongue :—It gives A Small Branch to the Pharynx : A Branch, termed Ramus Hyoideus, to the Muscles placed between the Tongue and Larynx : The Dorsalis Lingacc to the Fauces, Amygdala, Epi- glottis, and Pharynx: The Ramus Sublingualis, which comes off under the middle of the Tongue, and is dispersed upon the Sub- lingual Gland and adjacent Muscles:—and The Ramtts Baninas, which is the principal Branch Vol. III. .i$ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. of the Lingual Artery, running at the under and lateral part of the Tongue, and terminating near its point: The Arteria Facialis, Maxillaris Externa, La- uialis, vel Angularis, which also runs forwards, and goes under the Stylo-Hyoideus, and Tendon of the Di- gastricus. It perforates the Submaxillary Gland, mounts suddenly over the Angle of the Lower Jaw, at the under and fore part of the Massc-ter, from whence it proceeds^ in a tortuous manner by the side of the Nose, towards the inner Corner of the Eye. In this course, it sends the following Branches to the adjacent parts: The Palatina Inferior, vel Ascenders, which runs up- wards upon the side of the Pharynx, covered by the Sty- loideus, to be dispersed, by a Superficial and a Deep Pa- latine Branch, upon the Velum Palati and parts near it: A Branch spread out by many Twigs upon the Ton- sil, and reaching as far as the Tongue : Branches to the Inferior Maxillary Gland: Small Branches to the root of the Tortguc, to the Skin, Muscles, &c. near the Angle of the Jaw : The Arteria Suhmentalis, which advances between the anterior Belly of the Digastrieus, the Mylo-IIyoideus, and Base of the Lower Jaw, furnishing Branches to the Submaxillary Gland, the Skin, Mylo-Hyoideus, Chin, and Under Lip: A Branch, upon the outside of the Jawr, to the Mas- seter: The Inferior Labial Artery, which arises a little higher than the former, and goes to the lower part of the Un- der/ pAIW V.] or THE BLOOD-VESSELS. ir> •let- Lip, inosculating with the corresponding Branch on the opposite side : Small Hranchrs dispersed upon the Buccinator, and communieating with others dispersed upon the Sub dance of the i/heck : The Coronaria hifnior, which conics off near thy Corner of the Mouth, sometimes from the J.tibialis In- ferior ;—and The Coronuriu Superior, large/ than the former, to the Upper Lip, from whence Branches run to the undet purl of the Partition and Point of the Nose. The Coronary Art< l ies run near the edges of the Lips, where, meeting with their lellows of tin; opposite side, they form an Arteriu Coronuriu Lubiorum. Frequently one or both Coronary Arteries are larger than ordinary, in which case those on the opposite side are proportionally smaller. After sending off the Coronary Branches, the Facial Artery runs near the Wing and Side of the Nose. From this part of the Artery, Branches arc sent in- ward, to the Nose, and outwards to the Cheek. The Facial Artery is at last lost upon the parts about the inner Corner of the Lye, and middle of the Fore- head. The P/f ARYVGEA INFERIOR, Vel AsCt MIEN'S, which is a small Artery arising near the Lingual Artery, and frequently from the root of the Occipitalis. After ascending some way between the Pectus Capitis Interims Major arid Pharynx, it divides into Branches, which urc dispersed upon the Pharynx, fauces, and Base of the Skull, where some of them /-liter the large foramina, and supply part of the Dura Mater.—From B 2 thi‘520 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. % * . this Artery, Twigs are also sent to the Sterno-Mas- toideus, Nerves, and Conglobate Glands. The Arteria Occipitalis, which arises from the back part of the External Carotid, and at its Origin is concealed by the other original Branches sent off from that Artery. It runs over the beginning of the Internal Jugular Vein, and afterwards passes between the Atlas and Mas- toid Process, and is covered by the posterior Belly of the Digastricus. It goes likewise behind the upper ends of the Trachelo- Mastoideus, Splenius, and Complexus; after which it becomes more superficial, where it runs near the middle of the Occiput. In its course, it is very tortuous, and gives off different Branches to the surrounding Muscles, viz. Branches to the Digastricus, Stylo-Hyoideus, Sterno- Mastoideus, and Glands of the Neck, and communi- cates with Branches of the Cervical Arteries: Another Branchy which passes, with the Jugular Vein, to the under and back part of the Dura Mater: A small Branch, which is sometimes from the poste- rior Auricular, and is distributed on the Lobe and outer edge of the Ear: The Auricularis Posterior, which comes frequently off from the Trunk of the Carotid.—it sends Branches to the Parotid Gland, Digastricus, and Sterno-Mastoideus, —a Branch to the Meatus Externus and Membrana Tympani,—the Stylo-Mastoid Branchy which passes through the Foramen Stylo-Mastoideum, giving Twigs to the Meatus Externus, Membrana Tympani, and In- ternal Ear. The21 Part VJ OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Auricular Artery passes afterwards behind the Ear, gives Branches to the Integuments, Muscles, and Bones there, and, creeping upon the back part of the Concha, sends Twigs to it, and terminates upon the side of the Head. • . . • f. * . ^ * * The Occipital Artery gives next a Branch, of consi- derable size, which descends between the Trachelo-Mas- toideus and Comjplexus, and afterwards gives Branches to most of the Muscles on this part of the Neck. The Trunk of the Artery afterwards ascends in a ser- i . , pentine manner upon the Occiput, dividing into several Branches, which are dispersed upon the Integuments and Occipito-Frontalis, communicating with the Occi- pital Artery of the opposite side, one Twig passing oc- casionally through the Foramen Mastoideum to the Dura Mater. ' » The Arteria Maxillaris Interna, which goes off from that part of the Trunk which is covered by the Pa- rotid Gland, and at its Origin lies behind the middle of the upright Plate which divides into the Condyloid and Coronoid Processes of the Lower Jaw, It passes first between the Jaw and Pterygoideus Ex- ternus, and aftenvards ascends, in a tortuous manner, towards the back part of the Antrum Maxillare, send- ing numerous Branches to, the parts belonging to both Jaws. At its Origin, it furnishes Twigs to the fore-side and adjacent parts of the Outer Ear : It then sends off the Arteria Dares Matris Media Maxima, Meningea Media, vel Spheno-Spinalis, which mns between the External and Internal Carotids, passes B 3 throughI 23 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part a through the Foramen Spinale of the Sphenoid Bone, and spreads, like the Branching of a Tree, over the Surface of the Dura Mater and inside of the Parietal Bone. Before entering the Foramen Spinale, it sometimes gives Twigs to the Muscles and other parts near it, and within the Cranium, besides the Branches mentioned above, it furnishes Twigs to the Substance of the Bones, and to the Inner Ear : The Inferior Maxillary Branch, which runs in the Inferior Maxillary Canal, sending Branches to the Sub- stance of the Bone, and to the Teeth; the remainder of it passing out at the Anterior Maxillary Foramen, communicating upon the Chin with Branches of the Facial Artery: Branches to the Pterygoideus, Massetcr, and inner part of the Temporalis, under the names of Artcricc Pterygoidece, Massetericce, and Tcmporalcs Profundce: The Arteria Buccalis to the Buccinator and other soft parts of the Check : The Arleria Alvcolaris, which runs behind the An- trum, and sends Branches to the soft parts surrounding the Upper Jaw.—It sends other Branches which enter by small Holes to the Antrum, and to the Substance, and Back Teeth of the Jaw j one of which is larger than the rest, and is the Proper Alveolaris : The Injra-Orbitar, which passes in the Canal under the Orbit, giving, at its entrance, Twigs to the soft parts in the bottom of the Orbit, and, in its progress, other Twigs to the Antrum, Substance of the Jaw, and Fore Teeth j after which it goes out at the Foramen Infra-Part V.] OF TIIE BLOOD-VESSELS. 23 Infra-Orbitarium, and terminates on the Cheek by small Branches which communicate with those of the Facial Artery: The Palatina Descendens, or Paint o-Maxillary Branch, which passes through the Foramen Palatinum Posterius, and runs between the Osseous and Fleshy parts of the Palate, supplying these with Branches; communicating with the Palatina Inferior, and frequently proceeding through the Foramen Incisivum to the inner part of the Nose : The Superior Pharyngeal, which is a small Branch terminating in and about the upper part of the Pha- rynx : The Large Lateral Nasal, which enters the Foramen Spheno-Palatinum, and divides, at the upper and back- part of the Nose, into many Branches, which supply the greater part of the inside of the Nose, viz. a Branch to the Posterior Ethmoid Cells,—a larger Branch to the Septum Narium,—a conspicuous Branch passing through the Spongy Bones to the bottom of the Nose, furnishing Twigs to the Mcmbrana Schneideriana and Antrum Maxillare, and communicating with the Palato-Maxil- lare, which passes through the Foramen Incisivum. Arteria Temporalis.—The Trunk of the External Carotid, having given off the Arteries already mention- ed, emerges from the substance of the Parotid Gland, then passes up between the Meatus Auditorius and root of the Zygoma, to form the Temporal Artery, named also Temporalis Externa, vel Superficialis. From the root of this Artery are sent off several Branches, of unequal size, to the Parotid Gland : B 4, Tim2* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartY. The Transversalis Faciei, which arises nearly oppo- site to the Internal Maxillary. It proceeds transversely under the Zygoma, over the Masseter, and near the Parotid Duct. After giving Branches to the Parotid Gland, it supplies a large portion of the Cheek, com- municating with the Facial and Internal Maxillary Ar- teries : The Articular Artery, which sends Branches to the Articulation of the Jaw, the External Meatus and Mem- brana Tympani, and penetrates as far as the Inner Ear, communicating with the Arteria Stylo-Mastoidea: The Deep Temporal Branch, sent off behind the Condyle of the Jaw, which ascends obliquely forwards under the Aponeurosis of the Temporal Muscle to the outer part of the Orbit: Anterior Auricular Branches, which come off near the Origin of the former Branch, and are ramified upon the fore part of the Ear, inosculating there with the Posterior Auricular Artery: Branches to the Masseter, which comrfiunicate in the Cheek with the Facial and Internal Maxillary Arteries. The Temporal Artery, having detached the Branches mentioned above, forms one or two sharp turns before the Ear ; and a little above the root of the Zygoma, where the Pulsation of the Artery can be felt, and fre- quently even seen, it divides into two Large Branches, an Anterior and Posterior, which are placed superficially between the Integuments of the Head and Aponeurosis of the Temporal Muscle. The Anterior, Internal Anterior, or Temporo-Frontal Branch, advances in a Serpentine direction, spreading outPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 25 out its Ramifications upon the side and upper part of the Fore-head, some of which reach as far as the Orbit. It supplies the Integuments and Muscles near it, com- municates, about the Orbit, with the Facial Artery, and, at the upper part of the Head, with the corresponding Branch of the other side. It occasionally gives a Branch from near its root, termed Ramus Orbicularis, which runs towards the outer Corner of the Eye, to be distributed upon the Orbicu- laris. The Posterior, or External Posteriory or Temporo- Occipital Branch, appears as the continuation of the Trunk. It ascends obliquely backwards, and is distri- buted extensively on the Integuments and Muscles upon the lateral parts and Crown of the Head, communicat- ing with the Anterior Branch, and with the Occipitalis on the same side of the Head, and also with the Poste- rior Temporal Branch of the opposite side,—from which, and from the other Branches on the Head, numerous Twigs go to the Pericranium, and to the Substance of the Bone. X? Internal Carotid Artery. The Internal Carotid,—sometimes termed Arteria Cerebralis,—is arched back at its Origin, and then ascends in a waving direction on the fore part of the Rectus Capitis Anterior Major, as far as the Foramen Caroticum, without giving off any Branches. At the Base of the Cranium, it makes a sudden turn forwards, and enters the Carotic Canal of the Temporal Bone.26 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY; [Part Vi Bone. While in the Canal, it passes upwards and for- wards like the Canal itself, and is surrounded by a con- siderable quantity of Cellular Substance, and by the Dura Mater, which form a Cushion between it and the Bone. After leaving the Canal, it again bends upwards and then forwards, by the side of the Sella Turcica, and here it is situated within the Cavernous Sinus; and perforating the Dura Mater, at the root of the Ante- rior Clinoid Process, it is suddenly reflected obliquely backwards and upwards j after which it divides into Branches. Through the whole of its course, it runs in a Serpen- tine manner, which prevents the Blood in it from rush- ing too quickly and forcibly upon the tender Substance of the Brain, and, contrary to the nature of other Ar- teries, it is of a Conical form, though it does not send off any Branches till it enters the Cranium. While at the side of the Sella Turcica, it furnishes small Twigs to the Dura Mater and parts adjacent, as— a Branch which passes through the Pars Petrosa to the Tympanum,—a Branch termed Posterior,—and another termed Anterior Artery of the Cavernous Sinus, to the Dura Mater, GJandula Pituitaria, and Nerves at the side of it. As soon as the Carotid perforates the Dura Mater, at the root of the Clinoid Process, it transmits The Arteria Ophthalmica, which is the principal Artery belonging to the Eye and its Appendages. The Ophthalmic, or Ocular Artery, immediately after it comes off from the Carotid, enters the Foramen Op- ticura,Fart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 27 ticum, and creeps under the Optic Nerve, included in the Dura Mater, towards the outer part of the Orbit. After proceeding some way through the Orbit, it tra- verses its Cavity, taking a spiral direction towards the Nose, between the Optic Nerve and Depressor Oculi Muscle. In this'course, it first transmits Filaments to the Dura Mater and Substance ot the Optic Nerve, and to the beginning of the Muscles in the bottom of the Orbit; after which it gives off the following Branches, viz. The Arleria Lacrymalis, which runs at the outside of the Orbit, and is chiefly dispersed upon the Lacrymal Gland ; some Threads advancing to the Eye-lids. One Twiff to the Periosteum of the Orbit, and another through the Cheek-bone: The Arteria Centralis Ret hire, which penetrates the Optic Nerve a little behind the Ball of the Eye,—runs in the centre of the Nerve, and spreads out into many small Branches upon the inside of the Retina. When the Nerve is cut across near the Ball of the Eye, the Orifice of the divided Central Artery is ob- servable, which, before its nature was understood, was known by the name of Porus Opticus. In the Adult, the Central Artery appears to termi- nate entirely upon the Retina ; but in the Foetus, after furnishing, at the bottom of the Orbit, the Branches proper to the Retina, the Trunk is continued forwards through the Axis of the Vitreous Humour, supplying its Cells and Membrane with delicate Filaments, and afterwards spreading out upon the back part of the Cap- sule of the Lens. Its28 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOM^. [Part V„ Its Branches are dispersed upon the Lens in a ra- diated manner, and, after surrounding it, some of them are sent forwards to the Mcmbrana Pupillaris, as may be distinctly seen by a fine Injection thrown into the Ocular Artery previous to the seventh Month of Ges- tation : The Arteries Ciliares, three or sometimes more in number,—which divide into Branches running in a Ser- pentine direction along the opposite sides of the Optic Nerve, and dividing into the Ciliares Breves, and Ci« ii ares Longse : The Ciliares Breves, vel Posteriores, which are formed not only of Branches from the original Ciliary Trunks, but also of Twigs from the Muscular Branches, and arc numerous. They perforate the Sclerotica, near the In- sertion of the Optic Nerve, give Twigs to that Coat, and dividing into still smaller Branches, Creep forwards upon the Tunica Choroides *,—forming many communi- cations with each other as they ndvance, and retiring gradually from the convex to the concave surface of this Coat, to supply the Iris and Ciliary Processes. The Ciliares Lougcc, which seldom consist of more than two Trunks. They perforate the Sclerotica a little ther forwards than the former, pass along the Choroid Coat to its anterior part, and then each separates into two Branches, and these into others which inosculate round the outer edge of the Iris. ' Besides the Ciliares Breves et Longse, there is an- other Set, termed Ciliares Anteriores, which are a few Arterious Filaments from the Muscular Branches, en- teringPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 29 » tering the Eye where the Straight Muscles are in- serted. At the root of the Iris, different Sets of Ciliary Ar- teries unite into Arches, which form an irregular Circle, called Circulus Iridis. From this Circle, many Arteries run upon the Iris, in a radiated serpentine manner, towards the Pupil, near which several of them also unite into Arches ; and from these, Twigs are sent, along with the rest of the radiated Branches, to the inner edge of the Iris.—In the Foetus, they are continued to the Membrana Pa- pillaris : The Muscular is Superior, et Muscular is Inferior, which are dispersed upon the Muscles, Membranes, and Fat of the Eye ; giving Twigs also to the Sclerotic Coat: The Ethmoidalis Anterior, at Posterior, two extremely small Twigs, especially the latter, which pass through the Foramina Orbitaria Interna,—Anteriuset Posterius, —to the Bones and Membranes of the Nose, particu- larly to the Frontal, Ethmoid, and Sphenoid Sinuses, where they communicate with the Nasal Branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery: The Supra-Orbitalis, vel Fiotitalis, which, after giv- ing Branches to the Muscles and Periosteum at the upper and fore part of the Orbit, emerges from the Socket, passes through the Foramen Supra-Orbitarium, and is divided into two parts;—one dispersed upon the Periosteum of the Fore-head, the other running to the Skin and Muscles on the Fore-head and upper Eye-lid, and communicating with the anterior Branch of the Temporal Artery. Arteries33 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Arteries of the Brain. The Arteries of the Brain consist of the two Internal Carotids, and the two Vertebrals. Eacli Internal Carotid, after sending forwards the Ocular Artery, gives a number of separate Twigs to the Optic Nerve, the Infundibulum, and the Choroid Plexus, and sends a particular branch backwards to the Vertebral, termed Artcria Communicans, and then divides into two principal parts, the Arteria Anterior, and Arteria Media Cerebri. The \rteria Anterior Cerebri turns towards its fellow of the opposite side, and commonly sends Fila- ments to the First and Second Pair of Nerves. A little before the union of the Optic Nerves, the right and left Anterior Cerebral Arteries become al- most contiguous, and anastomose by means of a short, but large transverse Branch, and sometimes by two, which form part of that Communication of Vessels termed Circus Arteriosus Willisii. From this transverse Branch, but more frequently from the Anterior Cerebral Artery near it, a Branch is sent off, which passes into the Third Ventricle, and fur- nishes Twigs to the Septum Lucidum, and fore part of the Fornix. The Anterior Cerebral Artery ascends upon the in- ner side of the Anterior Lobe of the Brain, and sends off a principal Branch, and commonly another soon after, both of which arch backwards upon the inner flat Surface of the Hemisphere. ThePart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 31 The continuation of the Anterior Cerebral Artery is termed Arteria Corporis Callosi, and is reflected back upon the union of the Corpus Callosum and Hemi- sphere as far as the Posterior Lobe of the Brain. The Branches of the Anterior Cerebral Artery are divided into minute Ramifications, which are first spread out upon the flat Surface of the Hemisphere, and after- wards upon its upper part. The Ramifications form numberless Anastomoses with each other upon the Surface of the Brain, and after- wards pass, by minute Filaments, into its Cortical and Medullary Substance. Besides the Anastomoses of the different Branches of this Artery on the Surface of the Hemisphere, small Branches run across the Corpus Callosum, and inoscu- late with those of the opposide side. The Arteria Media Cerebri,—termed also Arte- ria Sylvian a, which is larger than the former,—runs outwards in a lateral direction through the Fossa of Sylvius, to the upper part of the Brain. It gives first Filaments to the Glandula Pituitaria and parts adjacent to it, and then divides into principal Branches; of which one Set go to the Anterior, and the other to the Lateral and part of the Posterior Lobe of the Brain. From this Artery, one or two Twigs run up into the Anterior Cornu of the Lateral Ventricle, and assist in forming the Choroid Plexus of that Cavity. Upon the outer Surface of the Brain, the Branches of this Artery inosculate with each other, and with those pf the Anterior Cerebral Artery, and then plunge into the52 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. the substance of the Brain, where they meet with the deep Branches of that Artery. Vertebral Artery. The two Vertebral Arteries,—which are only a little smaller than the Internal Carotids,—arise from the Sub- clavian Arteries at the bottom of the Neck. Each of them, at a small distance from its origin, en- ters the Canal formed for its reception by the six upper- most Cervical Vertebrae, though in some rare instances it is seen entering the Seventh Vertebra, or sometimes only perforating two or three c>f the uppermost of these. It ascends through the Neck, nearly in a straight di- rection, sending Twigs outwards between the Vertebras to the deep Muscles of the Neck, and others which pass inwards by the Holes which transmit the Spinal Nerves, to the Spinal Marrow and its Membranes j com- municating with the Spinal Arteries. Immediately below the Head, it gives out more con- siderable Branches to the Deep Muscles at the back part of the Neck, particularly to the Recti and Obliqui Pos- tici, the Trachelo-Mastoideus, and Complexus j inos- culating with Branches of the Occipital Artery. One turn is formed upwards and outwards, in passing from the third to the second Vertebra ; and another out- wards and forwards, in going between the Vertebra Dcntata and Atlas. After perforating the Atlas, it bends suddenly back, and runs in a horizontal direction in a Notch upon that Bone. Having reached the Foramen Magnum Occipitis, it turnsPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. S3 turns upwards, perforates the Dura Mater, and enters i the Cavity of the Cranium. After entering the Cranium, it passes with the Me- dulla Oblongata, upon the Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone, inclining towards its fellow on the other side; and at the beginning of the Medulla, the two Vertebrals unite into the Trunk called Basilar Ar~ tcry. Upon entering the Skull, each Vertebral Artery sends a small Branch, termed Arteria Meningea Posterior, to the posterior part of the Dura Mater, which communi- cates by small Branches with the other Arteries of this Membrane. It then disperses Twigs to the Medulla Oblongata, and frequently gives off the small Branch which forms one of the Posterior Arteries of the Spinal Marrow. Near the part where it unites with its fellow, it sends down the Anterior Artery of the Spinal Marrow, which, with the Posterior Arteries of tills Substance, will be afterwards described. From the Vertebral, or from the Basilar, or some- times from each, a principal Branch is sent off, named Arteria Cerebclli Posterior vel Inferior, which passes be- tween the Cerebellum and Medulla Oblongata, and fur- nishes Branches to the under part of the Cerebellum, to the back part of the Medulla Oblongata and Tuber Annulare, and forms the Choroid Plexus of the fourth Ventricle. The Basilar Artery runs along the middle of the Tuber Annulare, which it slightly impresses, and lies upon the Cuneiform Process of the Os Occipitis $ hav- Vol. III.34 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pari V, mg there the Dura Mater, and Tunica Arachnoideay between it and the Bone. From the sides of this Artery, numerous Filaments run transversely, to be dispersed upon the Tuber and adjacent parts. One Branch, larger than the rest, called Auditoria Interna, passes between the two portions of the Seventh Pair of Nerves to the Internal Organ of Plearing. At the extremity of the Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone, and at the upper and fore part of the Tuber Annulare, the Basilar Artery divides into four principal Branches, two to each side; and these go off almost at right angles from the Trunk, viz. The Arteria Superior, vel Superior Cerebelli, which turns round the Crura Cerebri, expands its Branches upon the upper part of the Cerebellum, and sinks into its Substance, supplying also the walls of the Fourth Ventricle, the Nates, Testes, and Parts near them: The Arteria Posterior, vel Profunda Cerebri, which sends Twigs to the Tuber and to the Crura Cerebri, and unites with tiie Internal Carotid by the Arteria Communicans. It supplies also parts lying near the Third Ventricle, and afterwards turning round the Crura Cerebri, passes back between the Cerebrum and Cerebellum. It distributes its numerous Branches chiefly to the Posterior Lobe of the Brain, one Branch in particular penetrating into the Posterior Cornu of the Lateral Ventricle, and, with Branches of the Internal Carotid* forming the Arterious part of the Choroid Plexus. The Branches of this Artery anastomose with those . ofPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 33 of the anterior part of the Internal Carotid, at the in- side of the Hemisphere,—and with those of the lateral part of that Artery, at the outside of the Hemisphere, in the manner these do with each other in the other parts of the Brain : The Arteria Communicans, which unites the poste- rior Cerebral Branch of the Vertebral Artery to the Trunk of the Internal Carotid, and is nearly of the same diameter, but longer than the transverse Artery which connects the anterior Branches of the Internal Carotid. It runs by the sides of the Sella Turcica, sends mi- nute Threads to the Crura Cerebri, to the Corpora Albicantia, Optic Nerves, and Infundibulum, and con- tributes to the formation of the Circle of Willis,—or that kind .of communication by which the Blood or In- jected Matter can pass readily across from one Internal Carotid to the other,—or from these backwards to the Basilar Artery. The Circle of Willis incloses the Optic Nerves, the Infundibulum, and the Corpora Albicantia, and is of an irregular figure, the sides varying in length, not only in different Subjects, but in the different sides of the same Body. Veins of the Head and Part of the Neck. The Veins which return the Blood from the Arteries of the Head and part of the Neck, unite into the fol- lowing Trunks, viz. C 2 TheCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The Facial Veiti, which is formed by the Frontal Vein, and by an intricate Plexus of Branches upon the Face. It winds obliquely downwards and outwards, at a distance from the Artery ; but, in crossing the Jaw, it goes close by the outside of it, and terminates in the External Jugular Vein : The Temporal Vein, formed by Superficial and Deep Branches from the sides and upper part of the Head, and running down upon the Temple, at some distance from the Artery. The Branches of the Temporal Vein form large An- astomoses ; before, with those of the Frontal Vein ; a4- bove, with their Fellows on the other side $ and be- hind, with the Branches of the Occipital Vein. The Trunk descends at the fore part of the Ear, and, along with the Artery, sinks in the Substance of the Parotid Gland. In its descent before the Meatus Auditorius Externus, it receives Branches from the Ear, Parotid Gland, and Cheek, corresponding with those sent to these parts from the Carotid, or Temporal Artery. At the under part of the Lower Jaw, the Facial and % Temporal Veins commonly unite and form the External Jugular. The External Jugular Vein receives the following Branches at the upper part of the Neck, viz. Branches of the Internal Maxillary Vein, the princi- pal part terminating in the Internal Jugular : The Lingual Vein, which more frequently terminates in the Internal Jugular : Some Branches from the Occipital Vein, the rest passingI'Mn V.J OI THE ULO'Jb-VLMhLH. / pawing bo the internal Jugulai and Vertebral Vtm«, mid sometime* also communicating by u Foramen Mas- loldeum with the Lateral Sinn*. The Trunk of the i.yJj.-mul Jugular Vein descend* in the Seek, between the Haiy/una Myoide* mid ter no- Mastoideus, receive* in it* coui-e Jbanehe* in,in the adjacent parts, awl terminates in the Lu!k laviun Vein. Jn the formation and termination of this vein, there r. great Variety in different .Subject*. ft frequently happen* that most of the ft urn ideation#, which commonly run Irom the J ate and J hroat into thin Vein, go to the internal Jugular. Often the Facial Vein goes into the internal Jugu- lar, and the Temporal continued forma the External Jugular. Sometime* one oi the Lxternal Jugular* terminate* m the usual way, and the other in the internal Jugu iur. Jn some rare ca>.< the LxtcmaJ Jugular* have both been found terminating in one tide of tlie Meek. Jiehidfc# the Vein commonly called Lxternal Jugular, a k/nall Subcutaneous Vein, termed Anle/iot External Jugular, descend* in the hire part of <the Neck, re- ceiving liranchck from the adjacent parts, and termina- ting in the Subclavian Vein. V/./5»h or 7 nr. Lyn />.n m ArmNOAOLS. The Blood sent to the Content, of the Orbit is re- turned partly to the Facial Vein at the inner Comer of the Lye, hut chiefly to the proper Ooubi Vein, which G 3 terminate*38 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartY. terminates in the Cavernous Sinus by the following Veins, viz. The Vena Centralis Retinae, which is formed by many small Branches expanded upon the inner Surface of the Retina along with those of the corresponding Artery. The Vena Centralis enters the Optic Nerve, where the Artery leaves it; and a little behind the Ball of the Eye, it emerges from the Nerve, and runs between it and the Sheath which covers it; receiving many Twigs from the Nerve and its Membranes. It passes afterwards under the Fasciculus of Nerves which belongs to the Eye, and terminates, sometimes in the Ocular Vein, but, in general, directly in the Ca- vernous Sinus. » From the Iris and Choroid Coat, the Blood is re- turned by the Short or Anterior Ciliary Veins, and by the Long or Posterior Ciliary Veins, and also by a prin- cipal Set of Ciliary Veins, termed Vasa Vorticosa. Small Veins return from the Iris, which go under the Arterious Circle to the Veins of the Choroid Coat, and communicate with each other;—but without form- ing any Circle, such as is found in the Eyes of Oxen, and which corresponds, in them, with the Arterious Circle. The Short Ciliary Veins pass from the Iris through the Sclerotic Coat, near the same part where the An- terior Ciliary Arteries enter. The Long Ciliary Veins, like the Arteries, are com- monly two in number, and of a smaller size than the Vorticose Veins.Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 39 They run from the Iris backwards along the Choroid Coat, communicate in their passage by minute Branches with the Vorticose Veins, and afterwards perforate the Tunica Sclerotica behind. The Vena Vorticosa are numerous, and obtain their name from the Whirls composed by their Branches; the course of which has been compared to a Jet d'Eau> or to the Spiral Ridges upon the points of the Fingers, &c. Of these Veins, four, or sometimes five, are by much the most conspicuous; the rest being smaller, and ha- ving less of the Vorticose appearance. The Branches of each of the four principal Venae Vorticosae run in a close Congeries, unite at acute angles into larger Branches which have a curved direction, and these proceeding from all sides, meet in a point, and form the Trunk of the Vein. The Trunks of these Venae Vorticosae, thus placed in the centre of their respective Whirls, are situated at the opposite sides of the Eye, and perforate the Sclerotic Coat obliquely near its middle. The rest of the Venae Vorticosae, or smaller Ciliary Veins, communicate with the adjacent larger Vorticose Veins upon the Surface of the Choroid Coat, and also perforate the Sclerotica near its middle. After piercing the Sclerotica, the different Vorticose Veins unite into four or five small Ciliary Trunks, re- ceiving a number of minute Twigs, which paint the Cellular Substance covering the Surface of the Sclero- tica. The Ciliary Veins run in a Serpentine direction at C 4 the40 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. the opposite sides of the Eye, and pass, either sepa- rately, or united with other small Veins in the Orbit, into the Trunk of the Ocular Vein. The other Venous Branches within the Orbit, corre- spond in a great measure with their respective Arteries. They consist of— jBranches from the Palpcbrae and inner Corner of the Eye: The Lacrymal Branch: The Ethmoidal Branches: Muscular Branches,—and Branches from the Fat in the Orbit, and from the Membranes lining it. The different Branches from the Eye and its Appen- dages form, by their union, the Ocular Vein, which greatly exceeds the size of the corresponding Artery. The Ocidar Vein forms large Anastomoses with the Facial Vein, at the inner Corner of the Eye, and after- wards passes back at the inner side of the Orbit. From the inner, it goes across to the outer side of the Orbit, under the Attollens ; and, after running back through the Superior Orbitar Fissure, covered by the Third and Sixth Pair of Nerves, it terminates in the Cavernous Sinus. Veins or tiie Dura Mater corresponding with its Arteries. The Veins of the Ehira Mater accompany their Ar- teries, and go partly through Perforations in the Base of the Cranium, to terminate in Branches of the Ex- ternali?AKT V.J OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. u t* ternal or Internal Jugular Veins.—The rest go into thp nearest Sinuses of the Brain. Veins of the Brain. The smaller Veins of the Brain accompany the Ar- teries. Their Trunks run chiefly between the Circum- volutions of the Brain, at a distance from the Trunks of the Arteries. They terminate in the different Sinuses of the Dura Mater, and generally in an oblique direction, which prevents the Blood from returning into them. The Sinuses most commonly found are the following: The Superior Longitudinal Sinus, which begins at the under part of the Spine of the Frontal Bone,—runs along the upper edge of the Falx, and, becoming gra- dually wider, terminates upon the middle of the Occipi- tal Bone, in the two lateral Sinuses. I It receives the Blood from the upper part of the Brain, by several large Venous Trunks, which enter it oblique- ly forwards: The Torcidar Herophili, or Fourth Sinus of the An- cients, chiefly formed by the Vena Galeni, which re- turns the Blood from the Choroid Plexus, Corpora Striata, Septum Lucidum, and other internal parts of the Brain. The Torcular passes back in the joining of the Falx and Tentorium, and terminates, along with the Supe- rior Longitudinal Sinus, in the beginning of the Late- ral Sinuses: The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus, a remarkably small one,42 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PaktV, one, situated in the under edge of the Falx.—It receives Branches from that Membrane, and from the Corpus Callosum and parts of the Brain near it, and terminates in the beginning of the Torcular Herophili: The two Lateral Sinuses, or Second and Third Si- nuses of the Ancients, formed by the Longitudinal and Torcular Sinuses They run at the Posterior Edge of the Tentorium, along the Lateral Ridges of the Os Occipitis, as far as the Base of the Petrosal Processes of the Temporal Bones, from whence they wind downwards, pass through the Foramina Lacera common to the Occipital and Temporal Bones, and form the Internal Jugular Veins. Frequently one of the Lateral Sinuses is formed by the Longitudinal, and the other by the Torcular Si- nus ; in which case, the one is found larger than the Other. The Lateral Sinuses receiye Veins from the Cerebel- lum, and from the under and back part of the Cere- brnm. They likewise receive the following small Si- nuses, situated under the Brain, viz. The Circular Sinus of Ridley, which is placed about the Glandula Pituitaria, and frequently surrounds it completely ; receiving the Blood fpom it, and froiq the adjacent Bones and Membranes, and terminating in the Cavernous Sinuses : The Cavernous Sinuses, which are situated at the sides of the Sella Turcica, and receive Blood from Veins ly- ing near the lateral Branches of the Internal Carotid Arteries, from the Ocular Veins, and from the Circular £>inus of Ridley. The43 £art V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Cavernous Sinuses surround the Carotid Arte- ries and Sixth Pair of Nerves, and have a Cavernous structure within, somewhat resembling that of the Pe- nis. The Superior Petrosal Sinuses, situatefl upon the Iiidges of the Partes Petrosae. They receive some small Veins from the Dura Mater and Base of the Brain, and communicate backwards with the Lateral, and forwards with the Cavernous Si- nuses ; The Inferior Petrosal Sinuses, placed at the roots of the Partes Petrosae.—They receive theJBlood from the Cavernous, and discharge it into the ends of the Late- ral Sinuses. Besides the Sinuses mentioned above, the following also are frequently met with, viz. A Perpendicular Occipital Sinus, situated in the Falx Cerebelli, which is sometimes single, sometimes double, and terminates in the Lateral Sinuses.—Jt receives Veins from the Dura Mater, and communicates with the Ver- tebral Veins: The Anterior Superior, and Anterior Inferior Occipi- tal Sinuses, placed over the Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone, and communicating with the Inferior Petrosal and Lateral Sinuses, and with the Vertebral Veins. Internal Jugular Vein. The Lateral Sinuses, having received the Blood sent to the Brain from the Carotid and Vertebral Arteries, (. * . • pass41- COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. pass out of the Cranium, and form the Internal Jugular Veins, each of which, at its Origin, is bulged back in form of a Varix, which is termed Diverticulum; and this is lodged in a Fossa at the root ol the Pars Petrosa of the Temporal Bone. The Internal Jugular Vein descends behind the Sterno-Mastoidcus, upon the fore and outer part of the Common Carotid Artery, with which it is included in a Sheath of Cellular Substance and is frequently a good deal dilated towards its under extremity, especially in advanced life. In its course in the Neck, it receives, either by sepa- rate Branches, or some of these collected into Trunks, Branches from the Pharynx and Muscles adjacent to it : The Internal Maxillary Vcins3 with their Branches, termed Meningeal: One or more Branches from the Occiput: The Lingual Vein, which sometimes terminates in the External Jugular.—One Branch of this, termed Rajiina, from its complexion, is seen under the Tongue, and is that Vein which is opened in Venesection here: The Superior Laryngeal, and now and then the Infe- rior Laryngeal, which more frequently goes into the Subclavian, or to the top of the Cava. The Internal Jugular also receives Branches from the O Muscles of the Neck, and at length terminates in the Subclavian Vein, Tur.Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The REMAINING BLOOD-VESSELS of the NECK, with those of the SUPERIOR EX- TREMITY IN GENERAL. Arteries. Subclavian Artery. The Subclavian Artery has been already observed to nrise, on the right side, in common with the Carotid, by a Trunk called Arteria Innominata ; and on the left, to come off’directly from the Aorta. Arteria Innominata.—The Arteria Innominata, seu Anonyma, named also 1light Subclavian, which is scarcely two inches in length, ascends obliquely over the Trachea, at the right side of which it divides into the Right Proper Subclavian, and the Right Common Ca- rotid. The Left Subclavian arises from the Arch of the Aor- ta, at the outside of the Carotid, and ascends to the up- per part of the Thorax; forming there a sharper or more extensive Curvature than the Subclavian of the right side, and advancing till upon a level with the first Rib, before it gives off’ any Branches. After the two Subclavians have emerged from the Thorax, each passes transversely outwards at the under part oi the Neck, behind the origin of the Sterno-Mas- toideus, and continues its course outwards between the Anterior and Middle Scaleni, and between the Subcla- vian Muscle and first Rib. After45 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV, After crossing the first Rib, it goes under the Pecto- ral Muscles to the Axilla, where it obtains the name ot Axillary Artery.—In this course, it Sends off the follow- ing Branches, viz. The Vertebral;—the Internal Mammary; and—the Superior Intercostal Artery.—The first of these has been already described; the two others belong to the inner part of the Thorax. It also gives off— The Thyroidea, vel Gutturalis Inferior, which arises at the outer side of the Vertebral Artety, previous to the passage of the Subclavian under the Scalenus. It ascends obliquely inwards in a winding manner behind the Carotid Artery, gives Branches to the Trachea, which descend in the Thorax, and inosculate with the Bronchial Arteries; also Twigs to the Larynx, Pha- rynx, and Esophagus ; while the most considerable part of the Artery is dispersed upon the Thyroid Gland, in- osculating with the Superior Laryngeal Artery: The Cf.rvicalis Anterior, which frequently comes off from the root of the Inferior Thyroid, and ascends in the Neck, furnishing Superficial Branches to the Muscles which go from the Trunk of the Body to the Neck, and Deep Branches to the Glands, Nerves, &c. lying on the fore and lateral parts of the Cervical Ver- tebrae. The Deep Branches anastomose with the Vertebral and Occipital Arteries ; and some passing through the Intervertebral Holes where the Nerves come out, com- municate with the Spinal Arteries : The Cervicalis Posterior, which arises in common with the Anterior Cervical, or with the Inferior Thyroid. —ThisPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 47 This is larger than the former, lies farther out, and runs in a winding direction outwards and upwards. It supplies the Skin and Muscles at the lateral and back part of the Neck, communicates with Branches of the Occipital and Vertebral Arteries, and sends a prin- cipal Branch downwards to the parts about the top of the Shoulder, and the upper and lateral parts of the Thorax: The Dorsalis Superior Scapulae, which comes fre- quently from the root of the Thyroid, and runs trans- versely behind the origin of the Sterno-Mastoideus, near the Clavicle. It afterwards perforates the Notch in the superior Costa of the Scapula, and, expand- ing its Branches upon the Dorsum of that Bone, sup- plies the Spinati and other Muscles situated there, and likewise furnishes Branches to the Joint of the Shoul- der. Besides the Branches of the Subclavian Artery men- tioned above, others are frequently found, which are more variable in their origin, and in their distribution in the Neck j coming off occasionally from the Trunk of the Subclavian Artery, or, at other times, from some of its Branches already described. Axillary Artery. The Axillary Artery, lying in the Axilla, between the Subscapularis and Serratus Major, is surrounded by the Lymphatic Glands and Fat, by the Veins, and also bv the large Nerves which form the Brachial Plexus. It gives48 COMPENDIUM 01 ANATOMY. [Part V, gives some small Branches to the adjacent Muscles and Nerves ;—but its principal Brandies are, The Thoracic.®, vel Mammari® Extern®, three' or four in number,—which by some Authors are de- scribed under particular names ; as, The TJioracica Superior, which arises opposite the first or second Bib, gives Branches to the Serratus and Intercostales, and to the Pcctorales and Skin : The Thoracica Longa, vel Mammaria Externa, which sends Twigs to the Axillary Glands ; but goes chiefly to fire Serratus, Pectoralis, Mamma, and Integuments, and inosculates with Branches of the Thoracica Supe- rior : The Thoracica Humeralis, vel Acromialis, which goes off opposite the Thoracica Superior, and divides sud- denly into Branches, which run to the upper parts of ihc Thorax near it, and to the Integuments, Muscles, and Ligaments, surrounding the Articulation of the TIumerus ; inosculating with Branches of the Scapulary Arteries: The Thoracica Axillaris, vel Alan's, which, when present, goes off from or near to the Thoracica Ilume- ralis, and is bestowed upon the Axillary Glands, Fat, &e. frequently dispersing Branches upon the under edge of the Subscapularis, and upon the Pectoralis and Serratus. The External Thoracic Arteries are frequently found to correspond with the description given above; but it may be at the same time noticed, that they vary much in their number, origin, course, and termination, in different individuals. In general, however, they comeI Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 49 off from the Axillary Artery, by Branches separate or united, and supply the parts about the top of the Shoul- der, and upper, outer, and lateral parts of the Thorax ; anastomosing above with the Arteries of the Neck, and below with those belonging to the containing parts of the Chest, and to the Upper Arm. The Scapulaius Interna, vel Subscapularis, vel Scapularis Communis, which arises at the under edge of the Subscapularis Muscle, and soon divides into the proper Scapularis Interna, and the Dorsalis Scapulae In- ferior : The Scapularis Interna runs near the inferior edge of the Scapula, and sends off many large Branches, the principal part of which are dispersed upon the Latissi- mus Dorsi, Teres Major, and Subscapularis. It sends Branches also to the Muscles arising from the Coracoid Process, to the Capsular Ligament, and to the Axil- lary Glands, which have large Anastomoses with each other, and with the Superior Dorsal Artery of the Sca- pula. The Dorsalis Scapulae Inferior, immediately after leaving the Internal Scapulary Artery, turns round near the Cervix of the Scapula, between the Inferior Costa of the Bone and Teres Major, to the Fossa In- fra-Spinata. Upon the Posterior Surface of the Scapula, it spreads out into Branches of considerable size, which are dis- persed upon the Muscles covering the under and back part of the Bone, and extend also to the Capsular Li- gament ; while the Trunk, ascending, inosculates with that of the Superior Dorsal Artery of the Scapula, Vol. III. D wherebySO COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. whereby an Arch common to the two Arteries is formed at the root of the Acromion : The ClRCUMFLEXA, vel ArTICULARIS ANfERIOR, which is sent off between the Subscapularis and Teres Major. It passes in a transverse direction between the Heads of the Coraco-Brachialis and Biceps, and Body of the Os Ilumeri, immediately below the Joint of the Humerus. It is dispersed upon the Muscles which cover it, and upon the Periosteum and Capsular Liga- ment of the Joint: The Circumfi.exa, vel Articularis Posterior, which arises directly opposite to the former, or by a common root with it, and is by much the larger of the two. i It passes first between the Subscapularis and Teres Major, and then turns round between the back part of the Os Humeri, and Long Head of the Triceps, and the Deltoides. It sends Branches to the Periosteum and Joint, to the Short Head of the Biceps and Coraco- Brachialis, to the two Tereti, to the Triceps and Sub- scapularis, and runs in a circular manner to the Del- toides. Its extreme Branches anastomose with those of the Anterior Circumflex Artery, so as completely to encompass the Body of the Bone. After giving off these different Branches, the Axillary Artery emerges from behind the edge of the Pectoralis Major, and runs along the Os Humeri, where it is termed Humeral or Brachial Artery. HumeralPart Vi] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 51 Humeral Artery. The Humeral Autery descends at the inner part of the Arm, behind the inner edge of the Biceps, covered by the General Aponeurosis, and having the Triceps Extensor Cubiti at the back part of it. In this course, it bestows Branches to the Muscles and Integuments, and to the Periosteum and Bone, viz. A Branch under the Coraco-Brachialis to the Capsule of the Joint and parts adjacent to it: Branches to the Triceps and Coraco-Brachialis : Various Branches to the Biceps, Brachialis Internus, and Bone : The Profunda Humeri, vel Spiralis', which arises near the upper part of the Arm, at the insertion of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major, but sometimes has its origin from the Scapularis Interna, or from the Ar- ticularis Posterior. It takes a Spiral direction down- wards and outwards, between the Triceps and Bone, and terminates at the outer Condyle of the Os Humeri, by a Large communicating Radial, or Recurrent-Radial Branch: The Arteria Profunda sends Branches upwards, which inosculate with others from the Humeral and Scapulary Arteries. The principal Branches run to the Coraco- Brachialis and Triceps, and to the Muscles at the outer part of the Elbow;—and one of them, termed Large communicating Ulnar, or Proftmdo-Ulnar, descending at the inner side of the Arm, is sometimes so consider- able as to form— D 2 The52 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. The Profunda Inferior, or Minor. This Artery is frequently a Branch of the Profunda Superior, but more commonly an original Branch sent off from the Trunk of the Artery, near the middle of the Arm. It gives Branches to the Muscles and other parts at the inside of the Arm, and terminates about the inner part of the Os Humeri. The Ramu6 Anastomoticus Magnus, which comes off a little above the Elbow, and bestows Branches to the Brachialis Interims, to the under end of the Tri- ceps, and to the Muscles, Ligaments, and parts in ge- neral about the Elbow-Joint. The Ramus Anastomo- ticus is variable both in its origin and distribution ; fre- quently instead of one there are two, or even three A- nastomosing Arteries at this part of the Arm. The smaller Branches sent from the Humeral Artery, pass in succession from the Trunk to the Muscles and other parts adjacent. They are shorter than the rest, and run more in a transverse direction, especially those to the Biceps. One small Branch, termed Nutritia, or MedullariSy goes into the Substance of the Bone by the passage near its middle, and supplies the Marrow, and parts which contain it; though this Branch is some- times sent off from some of the Brunches in the neigh- bourhood. The Trunk of the Humeral Artery, having sent off the different Branches which belong to the Arm, passes to the middle of the‘bending of the Elbow, between the Aponeurosis and Round Tendon of the Biceps. About an inch below the Elbow, it commonly divides into two principal Arteries, the lladiul and Ulnar. It happens.S3 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. happens, however, now and then., that tin's division takes place directly over the Joint of the Elbow $ at other times about the middle of the Arm j and not un= frequently as high as the Axilla. The Radialis passes over the Pronator Teres, and runs on the fore part of the Radius through the whole length of that Bone. It descends between the Supina- tor Longus and Flexor Radialis, resting on the Flexor Longus Pollicis. At the upper part of the Fore Arm, it is covered by the Supinator Longus : In its descent, it becomes more superficial, and, at the under part of the Fore Arm, it lies close upon the Radius, and immediately under the Skin, in consequence of which the Pulse is commonly felt in this place. Its principal Branches are. The Rccurrens Radialis, which is reflected to the Muscles and parts of the Joint near it, and anastomoses freely with the Prdfundo-Radial and Profundo-Minor of the Humeral Artery, at the outer part of the Elbow. In some rare cases, a Branch of considerable size forms a communication between the top of the Radial Artery and Trunk of the Humeral one, a considerable way up the Arm : Numerous Lateral Branches, in the descent of the Artery, to the Muscles and Integuments, and parts in general situated about the Radius : The Supeijicialis Lola:, which goes off at the Wrist, and passes over or through the Abductor Pollicis to the Palm. It is sometimes so small as scarcely to reach the Palm. More frequently it is a considerable Artery, sending Branches to the Ball of the Thumb and super- D 3 ■ ficials* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. iicial parts of the Palm near it,—a Branch along the outer side of the Thumb,—and an anastomosing Branch which unites with the Arch of the Ulnar Artery.— Sometimes the Superficial Volar Branch is equal in size to the continuation of the Trunk of the Radial Artery ; in such cases it forms a considerable part of the Super- ficial Palmar Arch of the Ulnar Artery: Small Branches to the Ligaments, Bones, and other parts about the Wrist: One, or sometimes two Branches, termed Dorsal, to the back part of the Metacarpus and Fingers. At the under part of the Fore Arm, the Radial Ar- tery turns back under the Tendons of the Extensors of the Thumb ;—then, getting between the roots of the Metacarpal Bones of the Thumb and Fore Finger, and perforating the Abductor Indicis, it divides into three principal Branches, viz. The Artcria Magna Pollicis, which runs along the side of the Thumb next the Fingers, and sometimes divides at its root into two Branches, which supply both bides of it: The Radialis Indicis, which runs along the side of the Fore Finger next the Thumb : The Palmaris Profunda, which crosses the Hand be- tween the roots of the Metacarpal Bones and Flexors of the Fingers, and forms an Arcus Profundus, from which Branches go off to the Interossei and other deep parts of the Palm. The Ulnaris, somewhat larger than the Radialis, is found at the anterior and inner part of the Fore Arm. It55 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. It appears at first as the continuation of the Trunk of the Humeral Arteiy. At its upper part it sinks deep behind the Flexor Muscles of the Hand, and passes afterwards, for some way, between the Flexor Sublimis and Profundus Di- gitorum. When its origin is in the Upper Arm, it commonly runs superficially upon the Aponeurosis of the Fore Arm, in which case the Radial appears as the continuation of the Trunk of the Humeral Arteiy. Near the Wrist, it becomes more superficial, and runs between the Tendons of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Flexor Digitorum Profundus, to the Hand. In this course, it sends off many Branches to the Fore Arm, among which the following are the most considerable: The Recwrens Ulnaris, which runs deep among the Flexor Muscles, and soon divides into Branches, which ascend and supply the parts about the posterior and inner side of the Elbow and Capsule of the Joint.—In the Groove behind the Inner Condyle of the Os Hu- meri, it communicates by distinct Anastomoses with the Profunda Inferior, or with the Ramus Anastomoticus, sent down from the Humeral Artery : The Intercssea Posterior, which comes off at the up- per end of the Interosseous Ligament, perforating it immediately after coming off from the Trunk, and going to the back part of the Fore Arm. From this place it sends upwards a Recurrent Branch, which communicates, upon the back part of the Elbowr, with the other Recurrent Arteries, and with the Branches sent down from the Humeral Artery, and forms along D 4 with56 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PautV. with these a Plexus of Vessels upon the back part of the Joint. The Interossea is afterwards continued downwards, and is chiefly dispersed upon the Bellies of the Extensor Muscles of the Hand and Fingers, being commonly exhausted before it reaches the Wrist: The Interossea Anterior, which comes olf sometimes immediately below the former, and at other times in common with it. Now and then, both arc from the Radial Artery ; and this is commonly the case where that Artery lakes its origin in the Upper Arm. Some- times the Interosseae arise by a common Trunk from the Humeral Artery. The Anterior Interosseous Artery is considerably larger than the Posterior, but is only about half the size of the Ulnar Artery, from which it springs. It runs close upon the Interosseous Ligament, and furnishes Branches to the Muscles and deep parts upon the anterior side of the Fore Arm, and the Nutritious Arteries of the Radius and Ulna. Near the Wrist, the principal part of the Artery per- forates the Ligament, and goes to the posterior side of the Carpus and back of the Hand, dividing into Branches which inosculate with others of the Posterior Interosseous and Radial Arteries. The other part of the Artery is spent about the Ligaments on the fore side of the Wrist. Sometimes the Interossea terminates in one of the Palmar Arches. The Ulnary Artery, having given off its Recurrent Branch, and the Arterise Interossea?, with many La- teral Branches to the inner side of the Fore Arm, passesPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 51 the by the Radial side of the Os Pisiforme, and then over l the Annular Ligament, very seldom under it, into the Palm, where it forms the Arcus Volaris Superjicialis. At the under end of the Fore rm, it sends oft' a Dorsal Branch, which passes behind the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris to the back of the Hand, where, jjoining with Branches of the Anterior Interosseous and Radial Arteries, it assists in forming a Plexus which supplies the back part of the Wrist, Hand, and Fin- gers, with a number of Branches, which are small when .compared with those in the Palm, The Arcus Volaris Sublimis, vel Superjicialis, is placed \with its convex side towards the Finders, and extends iobliquely from the root of the Metacarpal Bone of !the Little Finger towards that of the first Bone of the Thumb j being covered by the Expansion termed Apo- ?neurosis Palmans Sometimes there are two superficial Arches, one from the Ulnar, the other from the Radial Artery. From the Arcus Volaris, Branches are sent oft’ in the following order, viz. Several Small Branches to the Integuments and other ’ Superficial parts of the Palm: A considerable Branch, termed Ulnaris Profunda of the Palm, which sinks near the root of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger, and, inosculating with the Palmar Branch of the Radial Artery, assists in forming the Arcus Profundus: % A Branch to the inner side of the Little Finger: Three Large Digital Branches, which run opposite toS8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. the Interstices of the Metacarpal Bones, to the roots of, or Clefts between the Fingers. At these Clefts, each of the three Digital Arteries is divided into two Branches, one of which Branches of each division runs along the Anterior Radial Margin of one Finger, and the other along the anterior Ulnar Margin of the Finger next it i—the three Digital Arte- ries thus supplying the Margins of all the Fingers, ex- cepting the inner Margin of the Little Finger, and the outer Margin of the Index. At the roots of the Fingers, each of the Digital Arteries receives a small Branch from the Arcus Pro- fundus. At the Roots and Joints, but more particularly at the Points of the Fingers, the Arteries communicate by cross Arches, and send Branches to the parts adjacent. The Superficial Arch of the Palm commonly sendsi off one of the Arteries of the Thumb, and ultimately communicates by a large Anastomosis with the Root of- the Arteria Magna Pollicis. * Veins of the Superior Extremity, and of part of the Neck. The Veins of the Superior Extremities have numerous Valves, and are divided into a Superficial and a Deep Set; the former lying immediately under the Integu- ment, the latter accompanying the Arteries, and taking their names from them. The Subcutaneous Veins have many large Anastomo- ses with each other, particularly on the Fore Arm, where they59 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. they unite, separate, and re-unite several times, thus forming a Plexus by which it is surrounded. The Superficial Veins from the back of the Hand, (one of which belonging to the Little Finger, was term- ed Salvatella by the Ancients), go chiefly to the Superfi- cial Radial and Ulnar Veins, and to the Vein termed Mediana Longa. The Superficial Radial Veins go to the Vena Cephali- ca, and the Superficial Ulnar Veins to the Vena Basili- ca, at the Joint of the Elbow. The Superficial Veins on the anterior part of the Fore Arm form a Plexus which communicates laterally with the Radial and Ulnar Veins, and particularly with the Trunk of the Mediana Longa. From this Plexus an Internal Median Trunk, or a Mediana Longa Minor, is commonly formed, which terminates in the Basilica. The Mediana Longa, or Mediana Longa Major, arises by numerous Branches from the back of the Hand and root of the Thumb, and communicates with the Vena Salvatella. It crosses over the Radius, and has a slanting direc- tion, and a little below the bending of the Elbow, is divided into two short Veins, the Mediana Cephalica "and Mediana Basilica, which, running obliquely up- wards, terminate a little above the Elbow, the former in the Cephalic, and the latter, crossing over the Hu- meral Artery, in the Basilic Vein. Though this description corresponds with the general distribution of the Veins of the Fore Arm, yet so great is60 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PautV. is the variety among them, that they arc scarcely found to apree exactly in any two Subjects. Frequently tlie Cephalic is almost entirely formed by the Medianu Cephalica, or the Basilic by the Medians Basilica. Sometimes the Medians Longa Minor goes into the Median Basilic. There are often more than two short Median Veins ;—and sometimes, instead of a Mediana Major and Minor, there is an irregular Plexus, but constantly a communication i& found, of the Veins on the Radial and L inar sides of the Anterior pari of the Fore Ann, and also a communication be- tween the superficial and deep Trunks at the bending of the Elbow. The Basilica, in its ascent, forms the principal Hu- meral Vein, which passes along the side of the Os Hu- meri, a little to the inside of the Humeral Artery ; and receiving Branches from the corresponding side of the Arm, and communicating with the deep Veins, it runs into the Arm-pit, and forms the Vena Axillaris. The Cephalica ascends at the outside of the Bi- ceps, receives Branches from the adjacent parts of the Ann, and communicates in several places with the Ba- silica ; and, passing in the Groove between the Pectora- lis Major and the Dcltoides, terminates in the Axillary Vein. The Deep Veins, termed also Vena: Satellites, or Conn comites, run close by the sides of their respective Arte- ries, one lying commonly on each side of the Artery, and receiving the Blood from the adjacent parts. In various places they anastomose with each other by short Branches, which cross over the Arteries. Near61' jPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Near the Joint of the Elbow, the Deep Radial Ulnar„ , and Interosseous Veins, form a Plexus over the Bifurca- tion of the Humeral Artery. From this Plexus, a short but large Branch passes outwards, and forms a communication with one of the Subcutaneous Veins, and, in general, the communica- tion is with one of the Median Veins. The Vena Axillaris, formed by the Trunks of the Su- perficial and Deep Humeral Veins, receives the Veins corresponding with the Circumflex Arteries, and the In- ternal, and the Inferior Dorsal Veins of the Scapula. A little higher, it is joined by the Vena Tkoracicat Externa, and about this place changes its name for that of Subclavian Vein. The Vena Subclavia passes between the Clavicle and First Rib, at the inner side of the Trunk of the Artery, and afterwards goes over the fore part of the Scalenus Anterior, at the under end of the Neck. After crossing the First Rib, it receives the Vein cor- responding with the Superior Dorsal Artery of the Sca- pula, the Veins which belong to the Cervical Arteries, and also small Veins from the Skin and Muscles on the back part of the Neck. While situated in the Neck, it likewise receives the External, and then the Internal Jugular Veinsand near this last, a Vein of considerable size, which corresponds with the Trunk of the Vertebral Artery. The Vertebral Vein communicates within the Cranium,. by small Branches, with the Inferior Petrosal Sinuses, or with the Occipital Sinuses ; but is chiefly formed by Branches arising from the Spinal Marrow and its Mem- branes,62 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV; branes, and from the Bones and Deep-seated Muscles of the Neck. Behind the top of the Sternum, the Subclavian Vein frequently receives the Inferior,Laryngeal Vein, the An- terior External Jugular, and the Internal Mammary Vein, which at other times go into the Superior Cava. —Besides these, the Left Subclavian receives also the Left Superior Intercostal Vein: after which it goes across the root of the Great Arteries sent up from the Arch of the Aorta, and, opposite to the Cartilage of the Right First Rib, joins its fellow of the other side, to form the Cava Superior. BLOOD-VESSELS within the THORAX. Op the Blood-vessels within the Thorax, the Pulmo- nary Arteries and Veins> the Aorta, the Coronary Vessels, and the other Vessels connected with the Heart, have been already described. The following are those which remain to be de- scribed. Arteries. ' The MamMaria Interna, which arises from the Subclavian, opposite to the Inferior Laryngeal, and descends between the Pleura and Cartilages of the True63 PAfcT V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. True Ribs, anti between the Intercostales Interni and : Sterno-Costalis, at the edge of the Sternum; sending . olF, A Small Reflected Branch to the Integuments and Muscles adjacent to the Clavicle : One or two small Branches, termed Thymicce, to the Thymus Gland, and which, like the Gland itself, are : most considerable in the Young Subject: A minute Branch, termed Comes Nervi Phrenici, ■ which accompanies the Phrenic Nerve, and, after giving Twigs to the neighbouring Membranes, is distributed : upon the Diaphragm : Some small Branches, called Mediastincc, and Peri- i cardiacce, to the Mediastinum and Pericardium : Several Branches, outwards, to the Intercostales, and others between the Cartilages of the True Ribs at the edge of the Sternum, to the Pectorales, Mamma, and Integuments, which communicate with those of the Thoracic® Extern®: A Large Branchy at the under end of the Thorax, termed Musculo-Phre?iica, which is dispersed upon the Diaphragm. The Mammary Artery afterwards emerges from the Thorax, commonly under the Cartilage of the Seventh True Rib, and forms an Epigastric Branch, which runs upon the back part of the Rectus Abdominis, upon the upper end of which it is dispersed, after sending a Branch to the Obliqui Abdominis : The AitTEiuiE Bronchiales, which come off from the fore, and near the upper part of the descending Aorta,C4 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Aorta, and arc distributed to the Lungs. They con- sist of. The Biionchialis Dextra, which arises sometimes from the Aorta, more frequently, however, from the uppermost Aortic Intercostal, and runs to the corre- sponding Lung : The Bronchialis Communis, which is only some- times present. It arises from the upper and fore part of the descending Aorta, divides into two Branches •, one to the left side of the Lungs, the other to the right side, and also to the Esophagus: The Bhonchiales Sinistras, Superior and Inferior* which are of unequal size, from the fore part of the Aorta, at a little distance from each other; the Infe- rior occasionally coming off from those of the Esopha- geals. The Bronchial Arteries send small Brandies to the Esophagus, to the posterior Mediastinum and Pericar- dium, and afterwards accompany the Branches of the Trachea through the Substance of the Lungs, being dispersed upon the Bronchi, upon the Coats of the Pul- monary Artery and Veins, and upon the Cellular Sub- stance and Membranes of the Lungs; where they com- municate also by minute Blanches with the Pulmo- nary Artery: The ArteriasEsophage.®, which are minute Branch- es, arising from the different parts of the Aorta, or from the Bronchials, and dispersed upon the Esophagus, also sending Twigs to the Posterior Mediastinum and Peri- cardium. The Intercostaus Superior, which comes off from the65 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. the Subclavian, a little farther out than the Mammary, and, after sending a Branch upwards to the deep Mus- cles and Nerves at the under and fore part of the Neck, descends near the Spine, and sends off two or three Branches, which supply an equal number of Intercostal Spaces; and one or two Branches which go backwards to the Spine and Spinal Marrow, and to the Muscles of the Back and Neck: The Intercostales Inferiores, which are nine or ten Pairs, the number varying with that of the Su- perior Intercostals, arising from the back part of the Aorta, and running in the Grooves at the under edges of the Ribs, between the Intercostnlis Extern us et In- ternus. Towards the fore part of the Thorax, each sends off a Branch to the upper edge of the Rib below it. They furnish Branches to the Spine, to the Spinal Marrow, and its Membranes, to the Intercostales, Pleu- ra, &c.; also numerous Branches to the Muscles on the outside of the Thorax, and communicate with those of the Internal and External Mammary Arteries. The first of the Aortic Intercostals inosculates with the Superior Intercostal of the Subclavian ;—the last, passing behind the Crus of the Diaphragm, goes over the Quadratus Lumborum, and follows the margin of the Twelfth Rib, to be distributed upon the Tendon of the Transversalis Abdominis: The Pericardiaca, Superior and Posterior, a small Branch arising sometimes from the concave side ’of the Arch of the Aorta, although more frequently from the Subclavian or Internal Mammary, and sending Vol. III. • E Twigs$6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Twigs to the Pericardium and adjoining parts of the Lungs and Esophagus. Veins. The Blood sent to the Thorax by the Arterue Mam- mariae Internoe, Bronchialcs, Esophagece, and Inter- costalcs, is returned to the Heart by the following Veins, viz. The Mammarije Internal, which accompany their corresponding Arteries, and terminate, the Left in the Left Subclavian, and the Right in the Right Subclavian, or in the top of the Vena Cava : Some small Veins, as the Pericardiaco-Diaphragmalic, the Thymic, and Pericardiac, which, in place ol joining the Mammary Trunk, commonly terminate, the Right in the Subclavian, or top of the Cava, and the Left in the corresponding Subclavian Vein : The VENiE Intercostales, which are the same in number with their Arteries, und accompany them along the edges of the Ribs. Several of the Lower Left Intcrcostals unite into a Trunk, termed Vena Azygos, which crosses over the Spine, about the middle of the Thorax,—behind, but sometimes before the Trunk of the Aorta,—to the right side. The Vena Azygos, or Vena sine Pari, thus originally formed by the Lower Left Intercostals, ascends on the fore part of the Spine over the Intercostal Arteries, at the right side of the Aorta. At its lower extremity, it generally communicates with67 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. with one of the Lumbar or Renal Veins, and not un- frequently with the Trunk of the Inferior Cava. Upon the Spine, it receives the Right Intercostals and the Right Bronchial Vein: and turning forwards over the Root of the Great Pulmonary Vessels of that side, it terminates in the Superior Cava, directly before that Vein perforates the Pericardium. The Upper Left Intercostal Veins, or such as are not received by the Vena Azygos, terminate in a Trunk on the left side, improperly called Left Vena Azygos. The Left Vena Azygos, or Semi-azygos, Left Bronchial, or Left Superior Intercostal Vein, besides the Superior Intercostal Branches, receives the Left Bronchial Veins, and Branches from the Esopha- gus and other parts near it, and terminates in the Sub- clavian Vein. The Vena Cava Superior, formed by the union of the Subclavian Veins, with the addition of the Vena Azygos, passes down at the right side of the ascending Aorta, perforates the Pericardium, and terminates in the upper part of die Right Auricle ; receiving, there- fore, the Blood from the Head and Neck, from the Su- perior Extremities, from the Parietes of the Thorax, and from the Bronchial Arteries. Blood-Vessels of the Diaphragm. The Diaphragm is supplied with Arteries from va- rious sources, viz. those entering its upper part from the Internal Mammary, already described; also small E 2 Branches68 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Branches from the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries. Its principal Branches, however, are the Phrenic, or Diaphragmatic, or Inferior Diaphragmatic. The Arterije Diaphragmatic^ are two in number, one on each side, which arise from the fore part of the Aorta as soon as it enters the Abdomen. In general, their origins are distinct from each other, but sometimes they arise from a common Trunk ; and now and then, one or both originate from the root of the Cceliaca, or even from the lleual or Lumbar Ar- teries. They afterwards go obliquely upwards and outwards over the Crura of the Diaphragm, spread out into many Branches, which are chiefly dispersed upon its fleshy sides, and inosculate with those which enter at its upper Surface. They likewise give small Branches to the Glandulae Renales, to the Cardia, and parts in general which lie near them. The Venas Diaphragmatic®, like their corresponding Arteries, run upon the under part of the Diaphragm, and terminate in the Inferior Cava behind the Liver,— the right being commonly a little lower than the left. BLOOD-69 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Ef? BLOOD-VESSELS op the CHYLOPOIETIC, and ASSISTANT CHYLOPOIETIC VISCERA. I Arteries. The Arteries of these Viscera consist of the Cceliac, and the Superior and Inferior Mesenteries ; all of which are Azygous, or single Arteries arising from the forepart of the Aorta. Arteria Cceliaca. The Arteria Cceliaca arises from the Aorta, imme" diately after it emerges from between the Crura of the Diaphragm into the Abdomen, or nearly opposite the Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra, and is situated at the upper edge of the Pancreas. The Trunk of the Cceliac Artery is remarkably short, being little more than half an inch in length, be- fore it divides into its Three Principal Branches, called, from their destination, Superior Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic. The Gastrica Superior, or Coronaria Ventw- cuLr Superior, is the smallest of the Three. It goes upwards, and a little towards the left, to reach the right side of the upper orifice of the Stomach. Here it sends Branches to the Cardia, which encircle it, and, ascending some way upon the Esophagus, com- municate with the Arteriae Esophagete.7a COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The Trunk of the Artery afterwards divides, upon the small Curvature of the Stomach, into principal Branches, some of which run across the upper and un- der Surfaces, and others obliquely towards the right side, supplying a large portion of the Stomach, and sending Twigs to the Omentum Minus,—while the Trunk is frequently extended as far as the Pylorus. The Arteria Hepatica, the largest of the three great Branches, is concealed at its root by the Pancreas, and passes obliquely forwards, upwards, and to the right side, behind the Pylorus,—before and a little to the right side of the Lobulus Spigerii,—till it arrives at the Cavi- ty of the Liver, called Porta. Where it approaches the Porta, it divides into the Gastrica Inferior Dextra, and the Proper Hepatic Ar- tery. The Gastrica Dextra, or Gastrica Inferior Dextra, or Gastro-Epjploica Dextra, sends out— The Arteria Pylorica, which, however, is frequently produced immediately from the Hepatic artery. It gives Branches to the Pylorus and other parts about the small end of the Stomach, and afterwards runs some way along its small Curvature, inosculating with the Superior Gastric Artery. Besides this principal Branch, there are a few smaller ones sent from the Gastrica Inferior to the Pylorus: The Duodenclis, which is dispersed upon the begin- ning and right portion of the Duodenum, along with other Branches coming from the same source, but of inferior size. Rami71. Fart V.'l OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. E 4 The Jlami Pajicreatici, distributed to the right end of the Pancreas. After furnishing the Branches already mentioned, the Inferior Gastric Artery passes under the Pylorus to the great Curvature of the Stomach, along which it runs ; being included, to near its large extremity, in the Layers of the Anterior Portion of the Omentum. In this course it sends off— The Rami Epiploici, which are long and slender Branches dispersed upon the Epiploon or Omentum: The Rami Gastrici, which, plunging suddenly into both sides of the Stomach, communicate with the Py- loric and Superior Gastric Arteries. The Hepatic Artery, having given out the Inferior Gastric, and frequently the Pyloric Artery, soon divides into two principal Branches, a right and a left, of un- equal size, which run into the Porta;—the one,—under the Hepatic Duct,—to supply the great,—and the other the small Lobe of the Liver. From the Right Branch, before it plunges into the Liver, is sent off the Arteria Cystica, afterwards divid- ing into two smaller Branches, termed Gemellcey which are dispersed upon the Gall-bladder. Frequently, besides the Hepatic Artery sent off from the Cceliac, there is another, coming sometimes from the Superior Gastric, at other times from the Superior Mesenteric Artery, or from the Aorta, to be sent into the Liver. In such cases, the Trunk which gives origin to this additional Artery is greater than usual, and the. Hepatic Branch which this Artery accompanies is pro- portionally smaller.72 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PahtV. The Arteuia Splenica, nearly equal in size to the Trunk of the Hepatica, takes a long and serpentine course across the left side of the Body ; running first behind, then at the upper part of the Pancreas, in its way to the Spleen.—Its Branches are,— The Rami Pancreatici, which are few in number, and small. They run from the Splenic Artery, nearly at right angles,, and supply the greater part of the Pan- creas : The Gastrica Sinistra, Gastrica Inferior Sinistra, or Gastro-Epiploica Sinistra, which is considerably inferior in length and size to the Gastrica Dextra, communicates by its Branches with the Gastrica Superior and Inferior, while its Trunk runs a little way towards the right side, along the great Curvature of the Stomach. It sends some Rami Pancreatici, and Gastro-Epiploici, and Meso-colici Sinistri, to the Pancreas, to the left portions of the Omentum ^nd Meso-colon ; while its Trunk frequently forms a common Arch with the G^s- trica Dextra: Three or four considerable Branches, termed Vasa Brevia, or Arterice Breves, which run to the left part of the great Curvature of the Stomach, to be distributed upon the upper and under parts of its large extremity; their Ramifications anastomosing with those of the Su- perior and of the Left Inferior Gastric Arteries. The Rami Splenici, which are also contorted, are se- veral in number, and of considerable size. They go at the concave side of the Spleen, to be distributed through- out the whole of its substance, but in such a manner thatPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 73 that the Branches of one part of the Spleen do not com- municate freely with those of another. Mesenterica Superior. The Mesenterica Superior, vel Major, arises from the Aorta, immediately below the Coeliac Artery, which it equals in size ; and, running under or behind the Pancreas, and then over the Duodenum, it passes between the Layers of the Mesentery, towards the un- der side of the Abdomen. In its descent, it is bent forwards and a little to the left side, its lower extremity turning toward the begin- ning of the Colon. From the convex side of the Artery, many large Branches are sent off to the Small Intestines; while others proceed from the right side to the right portion of the Colon. t The First Arteries sent off from the Trunk are very inconsiderable, running to the Pancreas and to the left portion of the Duodenum, and communicating there with Branches of the Cceliac Artery. The principal Branches from the left or convex side of the Trunk are dispersed upon the Jejunum and Ilium, supplying, in their course, the Layers of the Mesentery with the parts it contains. The first of these Branches are short and small; those which succeed gradually increase in length and size to the middle of the Arch, after which they diminish again somewhat in the same proportion towards the lower part of the Ilium. InU COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [FatitV, In their course through the Mesentery, the principal Branches communicate, first by reciprocal Arches, thcil by Areolae or Meshes of different figures, which in- crease in number, but diminish in size, as they approach the Intestines. From the last of these Areolae, many Branches arc detached, which take a straight course to the concave side of the Intestines, and are afterwards ramified through the Substance of the Gut, forming numberless Anastomoses with each other, and terminating at length upon the inner side of the Canal, by Branches so mi- nute as to require the assistance of Glasses to view them distinctly. The Branches produced from the right or concave side of the Trunk are situated between the Layers of the Meso-colon,— their length being almost equal to the breadth of that Membrane. Near the Intestines, they communicate by large, and then by smaller Arches,—but the Arteries here are of greater magnitude than those which belong to the Small Intestines; their Arches are also larger, but they are less frequent, and nearer the Bowels; of course, the last Ramifications sent off from these Arches are shorter than those belonging to the Small Intestines. The principal Branches arc the following: The Ilio-Colica, which arises near the under part of the Trunk, supplies the end of the Ilium and beginning of the Colon, and communicates with the Branches' sent from the extremity of the Trunk of the Artery: A Short Trunk, which divides into— The Colica Dex/ra, for supplying the right side of the Colon,Part V.] OF THE BLOOD. VESSELS. *?a Colon,—its Branches communicating with those of the Ilio-Colica; and— The Colica Media, or Media Anastomotica, which proceeds to the great Arch of the Colon. Near the Colon, the Colica Media divides into two large Branches, one forming an Arch with the Colica Dextra, the other with a Branch of the Mesenterica Inferior. From the opposite side of the Colon, Branches of this Artery run to the Omentum, and communicate with the Gastro-Epiploic Arteries. Besides the Colic Branches already described, there is frequently an additional one, which arises from the beginning of the Superior Mesenteric Artery, and in its ascent splits into two others; one of which, uniting with the Colica Media, forms the large Meso-colic Arch, and the other a similar Arch with the ascending Branch of the Inferior Mesenteric Artery. Mesenterica Inferior. The Mesenterica Inferior, vel Minor, arises from the Anterior and left side of the Aorta, somewhat lower than half-way between the Superior Mesenteric and the Bifurcation of the Aorta. It descends obliquely behind the Peritoneum, upon the left Psoas Muscle, and soon divides into principal Branches. These near the Intestines join with each other, and form Arches, from which others go off, composing Areolae in some measure similar to those which belongT6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The to the right side of the Colon.—The principal Branches arc,— The Ramus Ascehdens, which divides near the Intes- tine, into two Branches; one of which joins the Colica Media, to form the great Meso-colic Arch, the other is reflected upon the left portion of the Colon : The Colica Sinistra, which is frequently double from its origin, or at other times splitting into two Branches, one joining the Ramus Ascendens, the other passing down by the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon : The Hemorrhoidal is Interna, which is of great size, being the Trunk continued. It anastomoses with the Colica Sinistra, and afterwards descends upon the back part of the Rectum to the under extremity of that In- testine. Veins. The Veins which return the Blood from the Chylo- poietic and Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera accompany their respective Arteries ; the Hepatic Branch excepted. They have, like their Arteries, large and frequent com- munications with each other, are much superior in size, and, as well as the other Veins of the Viscera situated in the great Cavities, are destitute of Valves. The following are the principal Trunks: The Mes enter ica, or Mesaraica Minor, or Ha:- MORRIIOIDALIS INTERNA. The Mesenterica Minor, running up at the left side of the Spine, receives— The Proper Vena Hzemorrhoidalis Interna, which returns the Blood from the Intcstinum Rectum:PartV.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 77 The Vena Colicce Sinistra, which return the Blood from the left portion or side of the Colon : The Vena Duodenalis, which returns the Blood from the left portion of the Duodenum. The Mesenterica Minor commonly terminates in the Vena Splenica, though frequently in the Mesenterica Superior. The Vena Splenica, situated at the under side of its Artery, and immediately behind the Pancreas, re- ceives— The Rami Splenici, which return the Blood from the Spleen:— The Rami Pancreatici, which pass from the under side of the Pancreas :— The Venae Breves, or- Vasa Brevia, which come from the left or great end of the Stomach:— The Vena Gastrica Sinistra, or Epiploica Sinistra, which comes from part of the great Arch of the Sto- mach, and corresponding portion of the Omentum :— The Gastrica Superior, which comes from the small curvature of the Stomach, and Omentum Minus, and goes into the Splenic near its termination, or into the beginning of the Vena Portce. The Splenic and Interior Mesenteric Veins, after re- ceiving their respective Branches, form a short Trunk which joins the Superior Mesenteric. The Vena Mesenterica Superior, vel Major. The Great Mesenteric Vein, situated at the under side of the Artery, receives— The Rami Mcsenterici, which are very large and nu- merous, returning the Blood from the Jejunum and Ujurii,78 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Ilium,—the Brunches going to the left side of the gene- ral Trunk: The Ilio-Colica, which comes from the end of the Ilium and beginning of the Colon : The Colica Dcxtra, which belongs to the right side of the Colon, and terminates in the right or concave side of the Mesenteric Trunk : The Colica Media Anastomotica, which comes from the right portion of the great Arch of the Colon, form- ing, with the descending Branch of the Mesenterica Minor, a large Arch similar to that ot the correspond- ing Artery, and terminating also in the right side of the Trunk : The Gastro-JRpijiloica Dcxtra, which belongs to the right portions of the Stomach and Omentum, and fre- quently unites w th the Veins from the side of the Co- lon, forming a short common Trunk, which has the term of Gastro-Colica applied to it: Thc Pylorica and Duodenalis, which sometimes ter- minate in the Superior Mesenteric, at other times in the Gastrica Dcxtra. The Great Mesenteric Vein, formed by the Branches mentioned above, passes over the beginning of the cor- responding Artery, and joins the Vena Splenica. The Trunk formed by these Veins runs under the head of the Pancreas, and here obtains the name of Vena Portae, or Vena Portarum. Vena Portae. The Vena Port.*, formed by the two Mesenteries, andH9 J?art V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The and by the Splenic Vein, returns the Blood from the Stomach and Intestines, and from the Spleen, Pancreas, and Omenta. The under part of the Vena Portas is termed by some Authors Vena Porta Abdominalis, or Ventraliswhile the upper part,—being of great size, but without hav- ing any particular dilation in it,—is called Sinus of the Vena Portae. The Vena Portas, at its beginning, frequently receives the Vena Gastrica Dextra, the Gastrica Superior, the Pylorica, and the Duodenalis, which at other times ter- minate in one of the great Trunks which form it. It passes upwards, inclining a little to the right in its course to the Liver, having the Trunks of the Biliary Ducts before, and the Hepatic Artery on the left side of it,—and is about three or four inches in length. When it reaches the Porta of the Liver, it receives the Venae Cysticae into its Trunk, or into its right divi- sion, either by two separate Branches, or these united into a single Vein. In the Porta, it divides into two great Branches, a right and left, sometimes termed Vena Porta Hepatica, which go off nearly at right angles, to be dispersed through the Substance of the Liver, alter the manner of an Artery ; tiie subordinate Branches accompanying those of the rteria liepatica. From the extremities of the Vena Portas, and like- wise from the extremities of the Hepatic artery, a set of Veins arise, termed Vena Hepatica, and sometimes Vena Cava Hepatica, which accompany the Branches gf the Hepatic Artery and Vena Portarmji-30 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. The Branches of the Venee Hepatic® afterwards unite into large Trunks, which recede from the Hepatic "Artery and Vena Port®, and terminate in the Inferior Cava. Their termination in the Cava is by two, and fre- quently by three Trunks, at the place where it perfo- rates the Diaphragm ; but commonly below this, a few small Hepatic Branches go into the Cava, where it is situated behind the Liver. BLOOD-VESSELS of the ORGANS of URINE and GENERATION. Arteuia Renalis.—The Arteria Renalis, called also Arteria Emulgens> arises opposite to its fellow, from the side of the Aorta, a little below the root of the Supe- rior Mesenteric Artery. It commonly comes off by one large Trunk, though frequently by two, and sometimes morej in which case, each of these is smaller than when the Artery is single. It runs across the Spine and Psoas Muscle, nearly in a transverse direction, descending, however, a little in its course towards the Kidney. The Artery of the right side goes behind the Vena Cava, and is longer than the left, in consequence of the Cava being situated between the Aorta and the Right Kidney. At the concave edge of the Kidney, the Artery di- vides into three or four Branches, which vary in length inPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 81 F The Vol. III. in different Subjects, which sometimes send Twigs to the Glandula Renalis and Tunica Adiposa of the Kid- ney. The Renal Branches then plunge into the Substance of the Kidney, surround its Pelvis, and afterwards ra- mify chiefly in its Cortical Substance*, forming Arches with each other, but few in number, at the roots of the Papillae. Frequently, instead of one Renal Artery, there arc two from the Aorta to each Kidney, or sometimes the Artery is single in one side of the Body, and double in the other, and in tarer instances three or more have been found. The Vena Renalis, or Emulgens, terminates in the Inferior Cava, and is more superficial than its corre- sponding Artery. It is the largest Vein received by the Cava from its origin to the part where it reaches the Liver. • The Left Renal Vein is longer than the Right, in consequence of the Aorta lying between the left Kidney and the Cava, and is situated first behind, but is after- wards anterior to the corresponding Artery. The Right Vein is short, it covers the Artery, and passes directly into the Cava. Arteriae Capsulares.—The Arterice Capsularcs, or Arteries of the lienal Capsules or Glands, are small but numerous. They are derived from the Renal and Diaphragmatic Arteries; and, in general, the Renal Gland, especially the Left, receives additional Branches from the Trunk of the Aorta.82 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The Venje Capsulahes commonly unite into a large Trunk, which, in the left side, terminates in the Vein of the Kidney, while in the right it frequently goes into the Cava. AiiTERLas Adipose.—The Arteries which supply the Tunica Adiposa of the Kidney are numerous Twigs proceeding from the Diaphragmatic, Capsular, and Kenal Arteries, or from others near it. The Veins which return from the extremities of these Arteries pass into the Trunks adjacent. Arteria Spermatica.—The Spermatic Artery, the diameter of which is small when compared with its great length, arises opposite to its fellow, from the fore- part of the Aorta, a little below the Renal Arteries. Sometimes it arises from the Arteria Renalis, at other times a little higher from the Aorta, and in rarer in- stances, from the Diaphragmatic Artery. It descends, in a waving direction, on the Surface of the Psoas, behind the Peritoneum ; the right passing obliquely over the Cava, tlie left behind the Colic Arte- ries of the same side, and both before the Ureters, to the under part of the Abdomen. After this, it perforates the Ring of the Obliquus Externus, and runs in the Spermatic Cord, where it di- vides into Branches, which are dispersed, some upon the Epididymis, while others, larger and much convo- luted, run across the Surface of the Testicle, plunge into its Substance, and are distributed upon the Seminal Ducts. In the descent of the Artery, it imparts Twigs— To the Tunica Adiposa of the Kidney; To83 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. To the Peritoneum and Cellular Substance near it; —and, To the Ureters,—which are also supplied with other Arteries from the adjacent Vessels, viz. from the Renal and Capsular Arteries, from the Aorta, lliacee, and Ve- sicales. The Vena Spermatica is much larger than its cor- responding Artery, and is furnished with Valves within, but more particularly without the Abdomen. It forms a Plexus which accompanies the A rtery, and about the place where it recedes from it, which is near- ly opposite to the under end of the Kidney ; it forms a single Trunk, which in the right side goes into the Cava a little below the Emulgent Vein, and in the left into the corresponding Vena Renalis. Besides the Artery commonly called Spermatic, the Testicle generally receives a smaller Branch from the Hypogastric, and frequently also a minute Brandi from the Epigastric, which accompany the Vas Deferens to the body of the Testicle, upon which they are dispers- ed, communicating there with the Branches of the Sper- matic Artery. The Veins proper to these Arteries terminate in the Hypogastric and Epigastric Veins. The Spermatic Artery, in the Female, has the same kind of Origin, and the same course through the Abdo- men, as in the Male, but is frequently more tortuous ; especially during pregnancy, where it also increases in size in proportion to the size of the Uterus. In place of perforating the Abdominal Ring, as it does in the Male, it descends into the Pelvis, between the Lamina F 2 of'3* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. of the Ligamentum Latum, to be dispersed first upoH the Ovarium and Uterine Tube, and then upon the Fundus of the Uterus itself,—passing in at its corner, and communicating with the Artery of the opposite side. The Spermatic Vein has the same termination in the Female as in the Male,—but is considerably larger. Arteri.’e li.iACiE.—The Iliac Arteries consist of the Two common Jliacs, which are formed by the divi- sion of the Aorta j and of the External and Internal lliacs of each side, which are formed by the Bifurcation of the Iiiacoe Communes. The External Iliac passes out of the Abdomen be- hind the Ligament of Poupart ; the Internal, termed also Artcria Hypogastrica, descends obliquely into the Pelvis. At the side of the Pelvis, the Internal divides into many Branches, some of which belong to the Organs of Urine and Generation, the rest to other parts of the Pelvis and adjacent parts of the Thigh. The following are the Branches sent from the Hy- pogastric Artery to the Organs of Urine and Genera- tion. Arteria Umbilicalis.— The Arteria Umbilicalis appeurs in the Foetus, as the continued Trunk of the Internal Iliac ; but in the Adult, is shrivelled into a Ligament, excepting at its beginning or under part. The beginning of the Umbilical Artery gives off-— One or more Arteries Vesicates, which run to the un- der part of the Bladder, and extend along its sides as far as the Fundus Vesica?. At their Origin, they fur- nishI Fart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Si nish Twigs to the Vesiculae Seminales, Prostate Gland, and Rectum. In the Female, the Umbilical Artery sends minute Branches to the Bladder, Uterus, Vagina, and Rec- tum : Arteria Uterina.—The Arteria Uterina, termed -also Uterina Hypogaslrica, is much larger than the Spermatic Artery ; and, like that Artery, increases in size in the state of pregnancy. It arises from the Hypogastric, near the origin of Pudic, Haeraorrhoidal, or Umbilical Arteries, and runs into the Uterus at its under extremity. % It is afterwards reflected upwards along the edge of the Uterus, towards its Fundus or upper part, where it meets with the Spermatic Artery, with which it forms frequent Anastomoses. It runs under the outer Coat of the Uterus, and sends out many Serpentine Branches which plunge into its Substance; forming numerous communications with the Artery of the opposite side. The Uterine Artery sends Branches downwards to be distributed extensively upon the Substance of the Vagina, a principal Branch of which is termed Vagi- nalis, and others forwards to be dispersed upon the Bladder: Arteria Vaginalis.—The Arteria Vaginalis is com- monly from the Uterine, at other times it is from the Trunk of the Hypogastric, or from some of the adja- cent Branches, particularly the middle Haemorrhoidal. It is extensively distributed upon the Vagina, commu- nicating with the Uterine Branches at the Cervix of the Uterus. F 5 BesidesS6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V, Besides this, there are other smaller Vaginal Branches from the neighbouring Arteries ; as the Vesicates, Utc- ritia, and Pudica, which communicate with each other, and with the proper Vaginalis, upon the Substance of the Vagina: Arteria Pudica, or Pudenda Communis.—The Arteria Pudica, named from its belonging to the Parts of Generation in both Sexes, comes off either imme- diately from the '1 runk of the Hypogastric, or from the Arteria Ischiatica. It passes out of the Pelvis, through the under part of the Notch of the Os Ilium, at the lower edge of the Py- riformis. It then turns between the Sacro-Sciatic Ligaments, to get to the inner side of the Tuber Ischii, where it is lodged so deep in the Cellular Substance, as to be in some measure again in the Cavity of the Pelvis. From the Tuber, it proceeds along the inner side of the Crus of the Os Ischium and of the Os Pubis, and behind the Transversus Perinei and Crus Penis, till it approaches the Symphysis Pubis. In its course, it sends off' many Branches, of which the following are the principal, viz. Branches to the Vesiculae Seminales, Prostate Gland, Neck of the Bladder, and Rectum : Branches to the Muscles and parts adjacent to the Sa- cro-Sciatic Ligaments ; some of them extending as far as the Joint of the Thigh-Bone : Branches to the Muscles, Membranes, and Fat about the Tuber of the Os Ischium. The Arteria Hemorrhoidalis Externa, which soon di- videsPartY.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. - st vides into Branches, to supply the Muscles and Integu- ments about the verge of the Anus : The Arteria Pcrinei, which passes under the Trans- versalis Perinei, in the space between the Crus Penis and Bulb of the Urethra, and gives Branches to the Skin and Muscles at the fore part of the Anus and root of the Penis, and to the Scrotum ; while the Artery itself terminates on the under part of the Penis. After dispersing the Branches already mentioned, the Pudic Artery divides, at the root of the Penis, into three principal Branches, viz. The First Branch, which passes into the Bulb of the Urethra, and is continued forward in the Corpus Spon- giosum Urethrae, into the Cells of which many of its Branches open : The Second Branch, termed Profunda Penis, or Cavernosa, which goes into the Crus Penis of the cor- responding side, and directs its course in the Corpus Cavernosam, through which it passes, in nearly a straight line, .o its other extremity ; its Branches com- municating with the Artery of the opposite side, and by innumerable Branches with the Cells of the Penis: The Third Branch, called Dorsalis Penis, which turns between the Symphysis Pubis and root of the Penis, and proceeds along the Dorsum as far as the Gians, adher- ing closely to the Ligamentous Substance which incloses the Corpora Cavernosa, and sending Branches to it and to the Integuments. In the Female, the Pudic Artery has the same gene- ral course as in the Male. After reaching the Inner side of the Tuber of the Os F 4 Ischium, /8S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. Ischium, it is extended forwards, and sends Branches to the Anus, Perineum, end of the Vagina, and Labia Ex- terna, and terminates in the Clitoris, somewhat in a si- milar manner as in the Penis. The Branch, which, in the Male, goes to the Bulb 8f the Urethra, in the Fe- male, passing to the outer end of the Vagina. The Blood is returned-from the Branches of the Hy- pogastric Artery dispersed upon the Organs of Urine and Generation, by the following Veins, viz. The Vena Vesicahs, which returns the Blood from the Bladder: The Vena Uterina IIypqgastrica, which comes from the Uterus: The Vena Magna Ipsius Penis, which runs along the middle of the Dorsum, and is often double to near the root of the Penis ; after which it passes between this and the Arch of the Pubis, forming a complicated Plexus which surrounds the Neck of the Bladder and Prostate Gland, and sending out Branches which ter- minate in others at the sides of the Bladder. Like other Veins subject to pressure, the Vena Penis is pro- vided w ith Valves: The Vena Pudica, which communicates anteriorly with the Branches of the Vena Magna at the root of the Penis, qnd afterwards passes back with the corre- sponding Artery : The Vena Tegmentorum Penis, which is formed by small Subcutaneous Branches, and ends in the top of the Femoral Vein. The Veins above mentioned, the last excepted, ter- minatePart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 89 ininate in the Hypogastrica, along with other Veins belonging to the Pelvis, to be afterwards described. BLOOD-VESSELS of the CONTAINING PARTS of the ABDOMEN, and of the PELVIS and INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Arteries. * • r f1 ; , Arterije Lumbares.—The Lumbar Arteries, which are commonlv four in number on each side, though sometimes five, arise in pairs from the back part of die Abdominal Aorta, in the same manner as the Inter- costals do from the Aorta in the Thorax. The Left are a little shorter than the Right, which pass under the Vena Cava to their place of destination. They run first over the fore part of the Bodies of the four uppermost Lumbar ertebrse, and afterwards go between them and the Psoce Muscles, in their way to- wards the sides of the Abdomen. They give Branches to the Spine, to the Spinal Mar- row and its Membranes •, are particularly dispersed upon the Lumbar Muscles, and upon the Transversus and Obiiqui Abdominis; and, perforating these, they also furnish Branches to the large Muscles and the Integu- ments in the back part of the Loins They communicate with the lower Intercostal, Dia- phragmatic,90 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. phragmatic, Internal Mammary, and Epigastric Arte- ries, and also with their fellows of the same side. The first Lumbar passes behind the corresponding Crus of the Diaphragm, to which it gives Branches in its course outwards. The fourth winds round the Crest of the Ilium, to be dispersed upon the Iliacus Interims and Abdominal Muscles. Sacha Media.—The Sacra Media is a small Azygous Artery, which arises from the under and back part of the Aorta, immediately at its Bifurcation. It generally sends off a Branch over each side of the last Vertebra of the Loins, which supplies the place of a Fifth Lumbar Artery. This Branch gives off others behind, in common with the Lumbars, while its outer Ramifications are exhausted upon the Iliacus In- ternus. The Sacral Artery afterwards descends along the middle of the last Lumbar Vertebra and Sacrum, as far as the Os Coccygis, sending Branches to the Membranes and Substance of these Bones, and to the back part of the Rectum. Iliacje Communes. After giving off the Arteries of the Contents and of the containing parts of the Abdomen, the Aorta, upon the under part of the Fourth Lumbar Vertebra, divides into the Two Common Iliac Arteries, which are of equal size, and take a similar course upon the right and left sides. They pass obliquely downwards and outwards; and sometimes,PartV.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 91 sometimes, though rarely, sending a Twig or two to the Lumbar Glands, or other parts near them. At the under and lateral parts of the last Vertebra of the Loins, i. e. opposite to the posterior or Sacro-Iliac Sym- physis of the Pelvis, each divides into two others, a Posterior, termed lliaca Interna, or Hypogastrica, and an Anterior, termed lliaca Externa, as formerly men- tioned. Iliaca Interna. The Iliaca Interna, or Hypogastrica, passes down- wards and backwards for about a couple of inches, after which it generally divides upon the Sacro-Iliac Symphysis, into Posterior and Anterior set of Branches, ■which come off either separately, or from each other ; the former supplying the parts nearest the Sacrum and Ilium, the latter belonging more immediately to the parts about the Anterior region of the Pelvis. Posterior Branches. Ilio-Lumbaris, or Iltaca Interna Minor.—The Uio-Lumbar is a small Artery, arising sometimes from the end of the Hypogastric, at other times from the beginning of the Glutea. It passes outwards under the Psoas, and divides sud- denly into Branches ; one of which frequently forms a kind of Lumhalis Ima, or Fifth Lumbar Artery. The other Branches go to the Psoas and Iliacus In- ternus,92 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. ternus, communicating there with the Lumbar Arteries and Circumflex Branches of the Ilium -a particular Twig, constituting an Artcria Nutritia, or Medullar is of the Os Ilium. SacrjE Laterales.—There are generally two, but sometimes three, arising from the common Trunk, or the Ilio- Lumbar, or frequently from the Gluteal Ar- tery. Sometimes there is only a single Artery, which descends by the sides of the Sacral Holes, giving Branches, which supply the place of the Same Late- rals, and sometimes also, though seldom, of the Sacra Media. They furnish Branches to the Muscles, Membranes, and Nerves, on the surface of the Os Sacrum, and in- osculate by cross Branches with the Sacra Media. Their principal Trunks enter the Anterior Sacral Holes, to be distributed upon the Cauda Equina, and the Membranes and Bones inclosing it. Arteria Geutea.—This is sometimes termed lliaca Posterior, and is the largest Branch of the Hypogastric Artery. Soon after it arises, it passes between the two Trunks or Heads of the Sciatic Nerve, goes afterwards through the upper part of the great Notch of the Os Ilium, and is reflected over the edge of the Bone, after the manner of the Inferior Scapulary Artery. Upon emerging from the Cavity of the Pelvis, and after giving Twigs to the Iliacus Internus, and Pyrifor- mis, it is divided into two great Branches; one more superficial, the other deep seated. TheFart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Superficial Branch bends round between the Ori- gin of the Gluteus Maximus and Mcdius, giving many Branches to each, but chiefly to the former, and inos- culating, by means of the Posterior Sacral Holes, with the Sacral Arteries. The Deep Branch, situated under the middle of the Gluteus Medius, is subdivided into Two Principal Branches,—a Superior and Inferior. The Superior crosses the Origin of the Gluteus Mi- nor, extends as far as the Spine of the Ilium, and gives Branches to the Gluteus Medius, and others passing downwards between the Gluteus Minimus and Ilium to the Joint of the Thigh;—one Branch forming a Nutritious Artery of the Ilium. The Inferior or Transverse Branch ascends over the Gluteus Minimus, and gives many large Branches to the Gluteus Medius and Minimus ; some of which ex- tend to the Joint of the Thigh and parts adjacent. At the under edge of the Gluteus Medius, it is di- vided into two Sets of Branches, one of which runs in a radiated direction close upon the Bone, and is chiefly dispersed upon the two smaller Glutei, while Branches of inferior size run, some of them downwards to the Muscles and Ligaments about the Joint of the Thigh, and others backwards to the parts about the Sacrum, communicating with the Lateral Sacral Arteries through the Posterior Foramina of the Os Sacrum. The other Set of Branches of the Gluteal Artery creep in between the Gluteus Medius and Maximus, upon the latter of which they are chiefly dispersed. Anterior9l« COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V, Anterior Branches. Arteria Obturatoria, or Obturatrix.—The Ob- tiirator Artery has its Origin from the Trunk of the Hypogastric, or from the Ilio-Lumbar, or from the Gluteal or Ischiatic, and frequently from the end of the Iliaca Externa, or from the root of the Epigastrica ; in which last case, it makes a Curve by the inner side of Gimbernat’s Ligament, and is then found on the fore-side of the Gut, in a Crural Hernia. Sometimes one Branch of the Obturator is from the Internal Iliac, another from the Epigastric. It descends in the Pelvis by the under side of the Psoas Muscle, and afterwards passes through the Hole at the upper part of the Obturatcy Ligament. While in the Pelvis, it frequently gives Twigs to the Bladder and other parts near it, and sends a Branch to the Obturator Internus in its passage through the Fora- men Thyroideum. After perforating the Ligament, it divides into Branches, one Set of which are dispersed upon the parts about the Hip-Joint, while another belong to the Obturator Externus, and to the Muscles which arc si- tuated at the upper and inner part of the Thigh ;—the two Sets of Branches inosculating w'ith each other. Ar'i [•eria Umbilicalis.—The Umbilical Artery sends off Rami Vcsicales from its under part or beginnings the rest of it, in the Adult, being shrivelled into Liga- ment, as already observed. Yesicaxis Ima of Haller.—This is a long and slen- der95 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS’. der Branch which frequently comes off from the root of the Pudic, at other times from the Hypogastric near the Umbilical, and runs to the under part of the Blad- der, and to the Prostate Gland. Arteria Uterina.—The Uterine, or Uterine Hy- pogastric Artery, is dispersed upon the Uterus, as has been already described. FLemorrhoidalis Media.—The middle Haemor- rhoidal, a small Artery, is sometimes sent off from the original Trunk, and at other times from some of its Branches, as the Pudic in the Male, or Umbilical in the Female. (Sometimes it is wanting). It runs upon the Anterior Surface of the Rectum, and is chiefly distributed upon its under Extremity, where it anastomoses with the Hmmorrhoidalis Interna. It frequently sends Branches to the under part of the Bladder;—to the Vesiculae Seminales and Prostate of the Male; and in the Female, to the Vagina and Blad- der, by a Vaginal Trunk which supplies the place of the Vaginal Artery Sent off from the Uterine. Pudica Communis.—The Pudica Communis, term- ed by some Authors llcctnonhoidalis Externa, belongs to the Parts of Generation and Anus, as was formerly taken notice of. Arteria Sciatica.—The Sciatic, or Ischiatic Ar- tery, is the largest of the Iliac Branches, except the Glutea. It goes through the under part of the Sciatic Notch, between the Pyriform and Gemelli Muscles, accompa- nied by the Sciatic Nerve, and having the Pyriformis between it and the Gluteal Artery. ItiiS COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. It afterwards descends some way down the Thigh, in company with the Sciatic Nerve, in the hollow be- tween the great Trochanter of the Thigh-bone and Tuber of the Ischium,—covered by the Gluteus Maxi- mus. Within the Pelvis, it sends Twigs, to the Rectum, Obturator Internus, and Pyriformis. Without the Pelvis, it sends an Artery backwards, termed Coccjgca, which creeps along the Posterior Sacro-Sciatic Liga- ment ; some of its Branches perforating the Fibres of the Ligament. It is distributed upon the Coccygcus, the Levator Ani, the Fat and Bones of the Coccyx, and sends Branches upwards which anastomose with some of the Lateral Sacral Arteries, through the Holes in the back part of the Os Sacrum. It next gives off a Concomitant Branch, which passes along the Surface of the Sciatic Nerve. It sends Branches to the Gluteus Mcdius and Mini- mus, to the Pyriformis and other Rotator Muscles of the Thigh, and to the Capsule of die Joint. The principal Branches of the Sciatic Artery, how- ever, are dispersed upon the under part of the Gluteus Maximus, some Twigs being sent to the Muscles arising from the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium, which commu- nicate with the Obturator and Pudic Arteries. Iliaca Externa. The Iliaca Externa, which appears in the Adult as’ the continuation of the common Trunk, descends along the Brim of the Pelvis, behind the Peritoneum, taking aPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 9? a curved direction by the inner and fore part of the Psoas Muscle, and afterwards passes over it, and under the Ligament of Poupart, to form the Femoral Ar- tery. In this course, it does not send off any Branches, ex- cepting sometimes a Twig or two to the Peritoneum, Psoas Muscle, Lymphatic Glands, &c. till it is about to leave the Abdomen, where it gives rise to two prin- cipal Arteries,—the Epigastrica, and Circumfexa Ossis Ilii. The Arteria Epigastrica goes off from the inner side of the Femoral Artery, immediately before that Vessel gets under the Ligament of Poupart At its origin, it is a little bent downwards \ and about half an inch from the place where it first comes olf, it crosses obliquely upwards and inwards, at the upper and outer end of the Abdominal Fung, behind the Sper- matic Cord in the Male, and Round Ligament in the Female. It proceeds in this oblique manner, under the inferior part of the Transversus, till it reaches as high as the point of the Pyramidalis, after which it tak^s a perpen- dicular direction along the back part, and near the middle of the llectus Abdominis. Near its origin, it sends Branches to the adjacent parts of the Pubes, one of which, in the Male, fre- quently runs to the Spermatic Cord, and in the Female to the Round Ligament of the Uterus. Under the Umbilicus, it generally divides into two Branches, variable in their size ; one directed towards Voi. III. G the98 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. the Umbilicus, the other continued in the line of the Rectus. It furnishes Branches to the Muscles, Integuments, and Membranes of the fore part of the Abdomen, com- municates in several places with the Lumbar Arteries, and terminates a little above the Umbilicus, where it forms several distinct though small Anastomoses with the under end of the Mammaria Interna. Circumflexa Ossis Ilii, sometimes termed Iliaca Anterior.—The Circumflex Artery of the Ilium, almost as large as the Epigastric Artery, arises nearly opposite to it, though frequently a little lower,—immediately be- hind the under end of the Fallopian Ligament. It runs at the inner edge of the Crest or Spine of the Os Ilium, between the Transvcrsalis and Obliquus In- ternus, till it arrives near the Vertebrae of the Loins. It gives Branches to the Psoas, Uiacus, and Sarto- rius, to the under end of the Obiiqui and Transversus Abdominis, and at length communicates with the Epi- gastric, and with the Inferior Intercostal and the Lum- bar Arteries. Arteria Femoralis. The Femoral, or Crural Artery,—the continua- tion of the External Iliac,—passes out of the Abdomen between the Ligament of Poupart and Brim, of the Pelvis. At its first exit, it is situated superficially over the Bali of the Os Femoris, having the inner edge of the commonPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 99 \ common end of the Psoas and Iliacus Internus between it and the Joint. At the top of the Thigh it forms the Inguinal or Common Femoral Artery, so named from its situation, and subsequent division into other Arteries. Here it is covered by the Glands of the Groin, and by the general Aponeurosis and Fat; farther down, it is lodged deep in a hollow at the upper and inner part of the Thigh, with the Rectus and Sartorius upon the outer, and the Adductor Femoris upon die inner side of it. From this part it descends at the inside of the Thigh, turning gradually backwards till it reaches the Ham. From the Inguinal or Common Femoral Artery, a few small Branches are sent off to the Skin of the Ab- domen, to the Superficial Muscles and Inguinal Glands, and to the common Integuments at the upper part of the Thigh ; also one or two others, termed Pudicce Ex- terncc, to the Pubes and the Integuments of the Exter- nal Parts of Generation and inside of the Thigh in both Sexes. About two inches below the Ligament of Poupart, though sometimes considerably lower, and in some rare cases directly under this Ligament, the Common Femo- ral Artery divides, somewhat iike the Common Iliac, into anterior and posterior parts :—The former is the Femoral Artery strictly so called, the latter is termed Profunda Femoris. G2 Profunda100 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Profunda Femoris. The Arteria Profunda, also called Vasta Poste- rior, or Muscularis Femoris, concealed at first by the proper Femoral Trunk, gives off* at its Origin from that Artery small Branches, arising separately or in a common Trunk, and dispersed upon the Integuments, Muscles, and Capsular Ligament, at the upper and fore part of the Thigh. It gives next, from its Origin also, two large Branches, —the Circwvjlexa Interna, and Circnmjlexa Externa,— which run in opposite directions at the upper part of the Thigh. The Circumflexa Interna, though most frequent- ly coming off from the beginning of the Profunda, often arises higher than it, from the common Femoral; and there are now and then two of them, one a little lower than the other, or sometimes it comes off in com- mon with the Circumflexa Externa. It passes between the under end of the Psoas and the Pectinalis, and afterwards turns round the inner part of the Neck of the Thigh-bone. It sends off— Branches to the Pectinalis, Triceps, and Capsule of the Joint: A Superior or Anterior Ascending Branch, to the Tri- ceps and Obturator, having a considerable Anastomosis with the Obturator Al ter}’ at the external margin of the Foramen Thyroideum. From this Branch a Twig is detached.Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 101 detached, which enters the Breach at the under and fore part of the Acetabulum, to be dispersed upon the Lijjamenturn Rotundum and the Substance called Gland of the Joint: An Inferior, or Inferior Posterior Circumflex Branch, which is the continuation of the Trunk. It bends round the Neck of the Thigh-bone, sending small Branches to the Capsule of the Joint, to the Ob- turator, Quadratus, and Adductor Femoris; commu- nicating with the Obturator and Sciatic Arteries, Hoe- Tnorrhoidals, and small Branches from the Gluteal. Circumflex a Externa.—The Circumflexa Externa arises for the most part nearly opposite the former, but frequently a little lower.—Now and then it has a double Origin ; one of the Trunks coming off higher than the other. It passes outwards between the upper ends of the Rectus, Tensor Vaginae Femoris, and Vastus Externus, and over the root of the Trochanter Major of the Os Femoris. \ It sends Branches upwards to the under part of the Glutei, and to other Muscles placed at the inferior and back part of the Pelvis, which anastomose with those running down from the Arteria Glutea. Others which have more of a lateral direction, and are distributed upon the Muscles at the upper and back part of the Thigh, and upon those more immediately about the Joint,—communicating with the Branches of the Circumflexa Interna. The largest Branches descend between the Rectus Femoris and Vastus Externus; one, longer than the G 3 Test,102 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. rest, reaching almost as far as the outer part of the Knee. The Profunda Femoris, having detached the Circum- flex Arteries, sinks deep behind the Trunk of the Fe- moralis, and, passing between the Abductor Muscles and Vastus Internus, descends near to the middle of the 1 high. In its descent, it sends off, or is divided into principal Branches, termed Rami Perforantcs> which, after giv- ing out small Branches to the Triceps, perforate it, to be dispersed upon the Flexors and other Muscles on the back part of the Thigh. 1 he Perforates come off in the following succes- sion, viz. The Per/orans Prima, which arises near the Trochan- ter Minor, perforates the Triceps a little farther down, am turnishes Branches to the Muscles in the upper and back part of the Thigh. It forms numerous communications with the Circum- flex Arteries, about the root of the Trochanter Major, and anastomoses in particular with the under end of the Sciatica: The Perforans Sccunda or Magna, which comes off some way below the former, and is the largest of the perforating Arteries. It gives Branches to the Muscles in general about the middle of the back part of the Thigh, particularly to the Adductors, Vasti, and to the Flexors of the Leg; and communicates above with Branches of the Pcrfo- rans Prima, and with the Circumflex Arteries. Besides these, there is one, and sometimes two other perforatingFart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 103 perforating Branches, which are greatly inferior in size to the two former, and are lost upon the Flexors at the under and back part of the Thigh ; one Twig sent off from these sometimes forming a Nutrilia or Medullaris of the Os Fern oris. The Femoral Artery, after giving off the Profunda Femoris, passes down, still covered by the Fascia of the Thigh, between the Vastus Interims and insertion of the Triceps, giving only small Branches to the Muscles and Integuments at the fore and inner side of the Thigh. One Branch, termed Ramus Anastomoticus Magnus, more conspicuous than the rest, is sent off previous to the passage of the Artery through the Tendon of the Triceps. It descends with many Ramifications upon the Vastus Internus, upon which it is chiefly dispersed; inosculating with the Descending Branch of the Cir- cumflexa Externa, and below, with Branches about the Knee. About the middle of the inside of the Thigh, the Trunk of the Artery is situated behind the Sartorius; and, nearly two-thirds down upon the Os Femoris, it perforates the Triceps passing between that Muscle and the Bone, in its way to the Leg. Having perforated the Triceps, it is found in the back part of the Thigh, where it sends Rami Perforantes to the adjacent Muscles and Integuments. Of the Rami Perforantes two are more constant and ■considerable than the rest, and called by some Authors Perforans Superior, and Perforans Inferior ; the former distributed to the Muscles at the back and inner, awd the latter, after sending off the Principal Medullaris, . G 4 going ♦10+ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [FartV. the going to those of’the back and outer part of’the Thigh ; and both communicating above with the descending Branches already described. In this part of' the Thigh, the Artery lies close upon the Bone, and adheres firmly to it, till it reaches the Ham, where it is termed Poplitea. Arteria Poplitea. The Arteria Poplitea, strictly so called, is that part of the Femoral Artery which lies over the Joint of the Knee ; the name, however, is generally applied to all that part of it which extends from the parts where it perforates the Tendon of the Triceps to the under edge of the Popliteus, or where the Artery is divided into two great Branches. It is lodged deep in the Hollow between the Ham- strings, Condyles of the Os Femoris, and Heads of the Gastrocnemius Externus. Where it passes over the Joint, it lies close upon the Capsular Ligament, and is covered by its associate Vein and Nerve, and generally by a large quantity of Fat. It gives off several Branches, which vary in their number, termed Articulares Superiores and Inferiores, to the Joint of the Knee. Four of these, situated two above and two below the Joint, are more regular and constant than the rest, viz. The Articularis Superior Interna, which turns round the Os Femoris, above the Inner Condyle, passes under105 Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. the Semimembranosus and Semitendinosus, and, after perforating the Tendon of the Triceps, is dispersed upon the upper and inner part of the Knee, anasto- mosing above with Branches sent down from the Femo- ral Artery: The Articular is Superior Externa, which arises nearly opposite to the former, passes outwards between the Tendon of the Biceps and Body of the Os Femoris, immediately above its outer Condyle, 3nd is lost upon the Vastus Externus, and upon the upper and outer part of the Knee; its Branches anastomosing with those of its fellow, and particularly with the long descending Branch of the Circumflexa Externa : The Articularis Inferior Interna, which arises oppo- site the bending of the Joint, passes downwards, and then turns round the Tibia, immediately below' its In- ner Condyle. It sends Branches first to the back part, then to the inner side of the Knee; some of them insinuating by the Semilunar Cartilages into the internal part of the Joint. It communicates above with the Branches of the Ar- ticularis Superior Interna: The Articularis Inferior Externa, which comes off near the former, and passes first downwards, then out- wards, ’betw'een the External Lateral and the Capsular Ligaments, to be dispersed upon the under and outer part of the Knee and inner part of the Joint; com- municating with its fellow of the opposite side, and above, with the Branches of the Articularis Superior Externa. Besides106 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartV. Besides the Superior and Inferior Articulating Arte- ries, another branch is frequently found, termed Arti- cularis Media, or Azygos, which is irregular in its ori- gin, arising sometimes from the Trunk of the Poplitea, at other times from one of the Superior Articular Branches. It is situated between the Condyles, and is exhausted upon the Ligaments, Fat, and Bones, at the back part of the Joint •, inosculating with all the ad- joining Branches. The other less constant Articular Branches are dis- persed upon the Muscles a little above the Joint. The Arteria Poplitea, having furnished Branches to the Joint of the Knee, gives others to the Muscles at the upper and back part of the Leg ; two of which, termed Suralcs, more considerable than the rest, pass, by different Branches, into the heads of the Gastroc- nemius Externus. The Trunk of the Artery passes afterwards between the heads of the Gastrocnemius Externus, and com- monly from two to three inches below the bending of the Knee, and at the under and outer edge of the Po- pliteus, or upper end of the Soleus, divides into two large Arteries, the Tibialis Antica, and 7'ibialis Pos- tica. Tibialis Antica.—The Tibialis Antica arises from the fore part of the Poplitea, and passes directly through the upper end of the Interosseous Ligament to the fore part of the Leg. In its descent in the Leg, it adheres closely to the an- terior surface of the Interosseous Ligament; lying at firstPartV.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 107 the first between the Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Digi- torum, and then between the Tibialis and Extensor Pollicis. > A little above the Ankle, it passes upon the outer and fore part of the Tibia, and, getting under the Annular Ligament and Extensor Pollicis, advances in a waving direction upon the convex surface of the Foot. It supplies, in general, the Muscles and Integuments which belong to the outer and fore part of the Leg and upper part of the Foot, and is ultimately spent upon the Deep Muscles of the Sole. Its Branches come off in the following order, viz. A Small Branch sent off before the Trunk perforates the Interosseous Ligament, to be dispersed upon the Muscles, Bones, &c. near the Joint; the superior Twigs running in a retrograde direction, and inosculating with the Inferior Articular Branches : The Recurrens Anterior, which arises from the Arte- ry after it has perforated the Ligament, and is dis- tributed upon the Ligaments at the upper part of the Leg, and upon those at the under part of the Knee ; anastomosing there with the Inferior Articular Arteries: 'Numerous, Branches sent off in a lateral direction to the Muscles and Integuments on the outer and fore part of the Leg : The Malleoli Interna, which comes off near the lower end of the Tibia, and is dispersed on the parts about the Inner Ankle: The Malleoli Externa, which arises a little lower than108 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PatitV. the former, and is distributed to the parts near the outer Ankle: The Arteria Tarsea, which takes its origin a little be- fore the bending of the Ankle-joint, and is more con- siderable in size than the Malleolar Branches. It passes obliquely outwards and forwards under the Extensor Brevis Digitorum, and sends Branches to the Joint of the Ankle, where it communicates with the Malleolar Arteries. It supplies the greater part of the Muscles, Integu- ments, &c. on the upper and outer part of the Foot, and sends Branches, termed fiiterossece, to the Muscles between the Metatarsal Bones of the small Toes,— which, however, are frequently derived from the Meta- tarsal Artery: Branches from the Artery upon the Dorsum Pedis, distributed to the Integuments, Muscles, Membranes, and Bones, at the upper and inner side of the Foot: The Arteria Metatarsea, which goes off about the middle of the Dorsum Pedis, and passes obliquely to- wards the root of the Little Toe, assisting the former Artery in furnishing Branches to the upper side of the Foot and Toes, and sometimes, in part or entirely, sup- plying the place of that Artery. The remaining portion of the Anterior Tibial Ar- tery afterwards advances between the Extensor of the great, and long Extensor of the small Toes, sending Twigs to the adjacent parts, and dividing, between the Metatarsal Bones of the Great Toe, and that next it, into a Large Posterior, and a Small Anterior Branch. The Posterior Branchy termed Anastomotica Profun- da9Part V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 109 da, which may be considered as the continuation of the Trunk, sinks between the Metatarsal Bones of the two first Toes, and anastomoses in the Sole with the Pos- terior Tibial Artery. The Anterior Branch runs forwards, under the name of Dor so-Metatar sea, or Dorsalis Pollicis, to be dis- persed upon the Great and Second Toes. Tibialis Postica.—The Tibialis Postica, somewhat larger than the Antica, divides about afinger's-breadth under the origin of the Tibialis Antica, though some- times considerably lower, into the Fibularis, and Tibia- lis Postica strictly so called. The Fibularis, termed also Peronea, which is smaller than either of the Tibial Arteries, runs down at the in- ner side of the Fibula for a considerable way along the Leg, and is situated, first between the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Longus Pollicis, and is afterwards covered by the last-named Muscle. Its Branches are distributed to the Muscles at the outer part of the Leg in the neighboiu-hood of the Fi- bula,—a small Medullary Branch also penetrating the Substance of that Bone. A little above the inferior Articulation of the Tibia and Fibula, it sends a Branch forwards, termed Fibu- laris, or Peronea Anterior, w hich perforates the Interos- seous Ligament, and is dispersed upon the fore part of the Ankle, where it anastomoses with the External Branch of the Tibialis Antica. The continuation of the Trunk, sometimes termed Fibularis, or Peronea Posterior, descends behind the Malleolus Externus, to the outer and back part of the. Foot,110 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. The Foot, anastomosing with the External Malleolar and Tarsal Branches of the Tibialis Antica. The Tibialis Postica, properly so called, passes down at the back-part of the Tibia, and runs over the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Digitorum, and under the Gastrocnemius Interims, in its descent through the Leg. At the under part of the Leg it becomes more super- ficial, running between the Tendo Achillis and Malleo- lus Interims ; having the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Digitorum Longus on the inner, and the Flexor Lon- gus Pollicis on the outer side of it. From the Ankle, it runs in the Hollow of the Os Cal- cis, and behind the Abductor Pollicis, to the Sole of the Foot. Its Branches supply the Muscles at the back and in- ner part of the Leg, and the different parts of the Sole j forming many Inosculations with the Branches of the Anterior Tibial, and the Fibular Artery. In its course along the Leg, it gives off— Numerous Branches, similar to those of the Tibialis Antica, to the surrounding Muscles: The Arteria Nutritia Tibia:, which begins a little be- low the upper end of the Trunk, descends for someway in the Leg, and gives Branches to the deep Muscles and Membranes near it, and one Branch, termed Arteria Medullaris, which enters the Hole near the middle of the Bone: Several Branches to the parts behind, and at the in- ner side of the Ankle and Heel, which communicate with others of the Anterior Tibial Artery.I IPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. HI The Trunk of the Artery divide, in the Hollow of ; the Os Calcis, at the place where it is about to go be- 1 hind the Abductor Pollicis, into two principal Plantar Branches,—the Interna and Externa. The Plantar Arteries run forwards under the Apo- ; neurosis Plantaris, having the Flexors of the Toes be- tween them. The Plantaris Interna passes near the inner side i of the Sole, between the Aponeurosis Plantaris and Abductor Pollicis. It gives Branches which run in a retrograde direc- tion to the back part of'the Ankle and adjacent parts of the Heel: Several Branches from each side, which go forwards to the Muscles and Integuments, and other parts at the ' concave edge of the Sole. At the root of the Great Toe, it sends a Principal Branch to its inner side; it then passes under the Flexor Longus I’ollicis, and, after anastomosing with the Arcus Plantaris, gives off a Large Biancli which splits into two,—one to the outer side of the Great Toe, and the other to the adjacent side ol the Toe next it. The Plantaris Externa, which may be considered as the continuation of the Trunk, being in general much larger than the Jnterna,—passes obliquely outwards be- tween the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Flexor Acces- sorius, till it reaches the Base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. It is afterwards arched forward, between the Flexors and Metatarsal Bones of the small Toes, the Trunk be- ing112 CUM PEN DIUM OF ANATOM V. [Part V. ing continued to the root of the Great Toe, under the name of Arcus Plantaris. The External Plantar Artery sends off— A Considerable Branch, first to the under, then to the outer part of the Heel, which communicates externally with Branches of the Anterior Tibial and the Fibular Arteries: Several Branches to the Flexors of the Toes, and to oilier parts in the outer portion of the Sole; which communicate, on the inner side,, with the Branches of the Plantaris Interna, and at the outer, with those of the Anterior Tibial Artery. Tiie Arcus Plantaris gives out— Several Branches to the deep Muscles of the Sole, particularly. Rami Interossci to the Muscles between the Metatar- sal Bones: A Branch to the outer side of the Little Toe: Three Large Digital Arteries, which are forked at the roots of the Toes, and run along the edges of these in the manner the Digital Arteries do along the Fingers. Between the Metatarsal Bones of the Great Toe and the one next it, the Plantar Arch anastomoses with the Posterior or perforating Branch of the Anterior Tibial Artery, forming a free communication between the Arteries of the upper and under side of the Foot. Frequently it sends off here a Digital Artery, which forks and runs along the outer side of the Great Toe, and inner side of the Toe next it, so as to supply the placePart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. lia Vol, III. H frequen* place of one of the Branches of the Internal Plantar Artery. At the roots of the Toes, the anterior extremities of the Trunks of the Digital Arteries aho form distinct 'Anastomoses with the Interosseous Arteries of the upper part of the Foot. Veins. The Veins of the Inferior Extremity, like those of the Superior, consist of a Subcutaneous and a Deep Set, and, like them also, are furnished with numerous Valves. Subcutaneous Veins.—The Subcutaneous Veins are situated between the Common Integuments and Ge- neral Aponeurosis, and, in many parts, are entirely concealed by the Fat. They anastomose frequently with each other by large Branches, and have several communications also with the deep-seated Veins. They form two principal Trunks called Saphaena Ma- jor and Saplicena Minor. The Saphena Major begins upon the upper side of the Foot, runs over the fore part of the inner Ankle, and ascends in the Leg at the inner edge of the Tibia. From the Leg, it passes up by the inside of the Knee, and afterwards from the inner to the upper and fore part of the Thigh. , It is at first composed of Veins, derived from the up- per and inner part of the Dorsum Pedis,' which have114. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. frequent Anastomoses with each other, and are of con- siderable size. In its ascent, it is joined by Branches from the super- ficial parts of the Leg, and some way below the Knee, is frequently split into a Plexus. It receives Branches from the superficial parts of the Thigh, and small Twigs from the Inguinal Glands. It terminates in the top of the Femoral Vein, nearly opposite to, or a little higher than, the origin of the Ar- teria Profunda. The Saph.*na Minor arises upon the outer side of the Foot, and afterwards passes behind the Malleolus Externus. From this it ascends, in the back part of the Leg, upon the surface of the Gastrocnemius Externus, and goes into the Hum. It is formed by the Veins of the upper and outer part of the Foot, and is joined to the Saphaena Major, over the Metatarsal Bcius, by one or more Arches, which receive a Plexus of Branches into their lower or convex part. It is joined by the Superficial Veins of the outer and back part of the Leg, which have frequent Anastomoses with each other, and with the Branches of the Saphaena Major. It terminates in the Vena Poplitea, and, a little above the Knee, communicates constantly by a small Branch with the Saphaena Major. Deep Veins.—The Deep Veins of the Leg, like those of the Fore-arm, run ’close at each side of their Arteries, and are double their number, but difler a little fromPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 115 from the Radial or Ulnar Veins, in being proportion- ally larger. The Tibial and Fibular Veins anastomose in some places with each other, and also communicate with the Subcutaneous Veins. At the upper part of the Leg, they are united toge- ther, to form the Vena Poplitea, and the union is nearly at the same place where the corresponding Arteries come off. The Vena Poplitea adheres closely to the upper or posterior surface of the Artery, which it in a great mea- sure conceals, and is commonly single, excepting a small Vein which sometimes accompanies it, and communi- cates with it. The Popliteal Vein receives the Venae Surales and Articulares, and the Saphaena Minor; after which it forms the Femoral Vein. The Vena Femoralis receives the Veins which cor- respond with the perforating Branches of the Femoral Artery, and passes in through the Triceps, where the Artery comes out. In the middle of the Thigh it lies deeper than the Artery, afterwards turning gradually to its inner side j and, at the upper part 'of the Thigh, is joined by the Vena Profunda. The Vena Profunda receives the Veins correspond- ing with the Branches of the Artery of that name, and is sometimes of a large size, being then in a great mea- sure the continuation of the Vena Poplitea,—a small Vein only in such cases accompanying the Trunk of the Femoral Artery. H 2 Besides116 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part V. Besides the Vena Profunda, the Femoral Vein takes in small Veins from the External Parts of Genera- tion, from the Inguinal Glands, and from the other superficial parts of the Groin ;—and, in particular, it receives a Branch of considerable size, which de- scends from the Integuments of the fore side of the Ab- domen. The Trunk of the Femoralis, having received the dif- ferent Veins of the Inferior Extremity, passes into the Abdomen, behind Poupart’s Ligament, being still si- tuated at the inner side of the Artery,—after which it forms the Iliaca Externa. The Iliaca Externa receives into its beginning the Epigastric and Circumflex Veins of the Os Ilium, and sometimes the Vena Obturatrix. f It is situated at the jnsidc of the External Iliac Artery, and afterwards crosses behind it on the right, and be- hind the Internal Iliac Artery on the left side of the Pelvis, to join the Trunk of the Hypogastric Vein. The Vena Hypogastrica, or Iliaca Interna, is situated at the outer side of the Concomitant Artery, and receives the different Veins which correspond with the Branches of that Artery, and which are furnished with Valves where they are situated among the Fleshy part* of the Pelvis. The External and Internal Iliacs unite, and form the Common Iliacs, a little below the division of the corre- sponding Arteries. The Iliac.® Communes ascend by the right side of their respective Arteries, and a little below the Bifurca- tion of the Aorta,—or upon the fore part of the Fifth LumbarPart V.] OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 117 Lumbar Vertebra,—unite to form the Inferior Cava, si- tuated, as formerly mentioned, at the right side of the Aorta. The Vena Cava Inferior, which is much larger than the Cava Superior, and greatly exceeds in size the descending Aorta,—receives, at its beginning, the Vena Sacra, and, higher, the Vense Lumbares, which, in the left side, pass behind the Trunk of the Aorta. It likewise receives the Vense Renales, and the Sper- matica of the right side. At length it takes in the Vense Hepaticse and Dia- phragmaticae, and, perforating the Tendinous part of the Diaphragm, at the root of the Liver, it terminates in the under part of the Right Auricle of the Heart; thus receiving the Blood from the Inferior Extremities, from the Viscera and Parities of the Abdomen, or from all the parts situated under the Diaphragm. LI s PART' f* • .PART VI. OF THE ABSORBENT SYSTEMOF THE absorbents in general. 1 he Absorbent System consists of the Absorbent Vessels 3and Conglobate Glands ; the former of which are divided into Lymphatic and Lacteal Vessels. The Absorbents are small Pellucid Tubes, which have ' Ibeen discovered in most parts of the Body, and are sup- posed to exist in all. They begin by numberless open Mouths, too minute to be visible to the naked Eye: By the assistance of (Glasses, however, the Orifices of the Lacteals have been iseen in the Human Body —and those of the Lympha- l tics in certain kinds of Fishes.—See Monro’s and Crui/c- shank’s Treatises on this Subject. They arise from the External Surface of the Body, I from the Cellular Substance, from the Surfaces of the ! large Cavities, and from the Surface and Substance of I the different Viscera ; but have not yet been distinctly (observed in the Cavity of the Cranium and Spine, nor in the Placenta and its Membranes. In122* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI, In the different parts of the Body, they generally run in two sets i one Superficial and very numerous, the other accompanying the Arteries, and at least double their number. The Lacteals are of the same nature with the other Absorbents. They begin from the inside of the intes- tines ; and when these contain Alimentary Matter, they carry a white I'iuid, called Chyle, and at other times a Clear Fluid or Lymph, to be mixed with the contents of the Lymphatics. Most of the Lymphatics, and all the Lacteals, termi- nate in the Thoracic Duct, by which the Lymph and Chyle are conveyed to the Red Veins, and mixed with the Blood. The large Veins in the bottom of the Neele are the common place of termination ; no facts or observations having been yet established of their terminating in any other part of the Venous System. The Coats of the Absorbents are thinner and more transparent, but stronger than those of the Red Veins, being able to support a column of Mercury of consider- able weight;—but, from their thinness, they cannot be enumerated. The Absorbents, however, like the Blood-vessels, are generally supposed to be formed of different Membra- nous Layers.—Fibres can be seen in them, and their Muscularity is rendered probable by the Contractile power which they are observed to possess in a living or moribund Animal. By this contractility, together with a degree of elas- ticity they possess, they convey their contents from their OriginsPart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. 123 Origins towards their terminations, in which they are assisted by the motions of the surrounding parts, indeT pendent of such a Vis a Tergo as contributes to propel the Blood through the Veins. They are furnished with Blood-vessels for their nou- rishment, as is sometimes distinctly observed by pene- trating Injections •, and this is rendered still more evi- dent, by their being susceptible of inflammation and pain. The presence of Nerves also appears probable from the acuteness of their feeling when in a state of inflam- mation. In general, they have a waving direction, and form an irregular Net-wo?-Jc, having frequent communications with each other; and these are most numerous in the vicinity of their Glands. . Through their whole extent, they are intercepted by Valves, which are placed in Pairs, and are of a semicir- cular form ; having one edge of each Valve fixed to the side of the Vessel, and the other edge loose across its Cavity, but turned towards the general terminations, being quite similar to the Valves of the Red Veins. In some parts, the Valves are found to be situated at equal distances; in others, more irregularly.—Their number also is very uncertain, amounting m some parts to three or four, and in others to seven or eight pairs, or upwards, in the length of an inch ;—bin varying still more with respect to number in different Bodies, and in different parts of the same Body. "W hen the Absorbents are distended, they appear largest on the side of the Valves towards their general terminations.124- COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. terminations, and the enlargements are such as to give the Lymphatics a jointed, and the Lactenls frequently a Vesicular appearance. In the termination of *he Absorbents, whether in the Thoracic Duct or in the Red Veins, there is always one, and commonly two Valves, to prevent the Contents of the Duct or of the Veins from passing into them. The Valves promote the general course of the Lymph and Chyle, and prevent the retrograde motion of these Fluids within their Vessels. The Lymphatics take in the Fluids applied to their Orifices by Capillary Attraction, and by a power inhe- rent in themselves, and by their contractile nature, con- duct them into the Mass of Blood, whereby they pre- vent Morbid Accumulations.—The Lacteals, in like manner, receive the Chyle from the Intestines, for the nourishment of the Body. The Conglobate Glands, or Glands of the Absorbent Vessels, arc found in various parts of the Body, and are situated in the Cellular Substance under the Skin, ge- nerally about the great Blood-vessels, or over the Trunks of the Vessels belonging to the different Vis- cera. They are chiefly found at the bendings of the Knee and Thigh j about the Vessels in the Pelvis •, be- tween the plies of the Mesentery, where they are in greater abundance than in any other part of the Body; about the Vessels going to the other Viscera of the Ab- domen ; about the Vessels in both Mediastina, especial- ly the Bronchi; at the inner part of the Arm ; in the Axilla ; about the large Vessels of the Neck ; under the Lower Jaw; before and behind the Ear. They have notPart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. 125 not yet been found upon the Hands or Feet, nor in the Cavity of the Cranium ; and scarcely have any ever been observed upon the Fore-arms or Legs; and only a small straggling Gland is occasionally met with upon the superficial parts of the Trunk of the Body. This is seen about the size of the Crystalline Lens, some- times on the back, at other times on the fore side of the Thorax. They arc of a round or oval form, and frequently a little flattened ; and are of different sizes, from that of a Millet-seed to that of a Substance near an inch in dia- meter ; sometimes several are collected into one Mass. Their colour also varies in different parts of the Body, and at different times of life. In young Subjects, they are generally largest, and of a reddish or brown colour, but become smaller and paler with increasing age •, and immediately under the Skin, they are redder and firmer than within the large Ca- vities. In the Mesentery, they are of a pale colour ; about the Bronchi, they are almost black. They have a smooth, dense, Membranous Covering, which gives them a shining appearance, and are con- nected to the surrounding parts by loose Cellular Sub- stance. Their Coat is connected to the Glandular part by a Cellular Membrane, which, according to Dr Haller, is pervaded by a Succus Prtyprius full of Globules, which, Mr FIewson supposed, afterwards form the red Glo- bules of the Blood. Like326 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VL Like other Glands, they are supplied with Arteries^ Veins, and Nerves, which they derive from those of the adjacent parts. They are described by some Anatomists as being composed of Cells internally, while others consider them £ts being a Congeries of convoluted Absorbent Vessels.— Most of the Glands have much of the former, but many of them of the latter appearance. The Absorbents entering into the Glands, arc called Vasa Infercntia. Whent they approach, or come in contact with the Gland, they split into radiated Branch- es, which, after spreading out upon it, penetrate into its Substance, where they divide almost to infinity, in some parts coiling up upon themselves; then they re- join, and pass out at the opposite side. The greater part of the Absorbents, approaching a Gland, terminate in it in this manner, while others turn aside, or go over it, and terminate in other Absor- bents, or in other Glands. From the opposite side of the Glands, the Vessels go out nearly in the manner they entered them, and are there termed Vasa Ejferentia. These arc frequently, though by no means always, fewer in number, but larger than the Vasa Infercntia. Most of the Absorbents go through several Glands, but in some parts through one only, before they reach their general terminations. The Lymph and Chyle are strained through the Glands, by which they are supposed, to undergo certain changes,—but the nature of these changes has not yet beenPart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. F t127 been ascertained, though they are found to be as essen- tial to the Absorbent Vessels as the Ganglia are to the Nervous System. PARTICULAR ABSORBENTS. The Superficial Absorbents of the Lower Extremities, consist of numerous Vessels, which lie between the Skin and Muscles. They belong to the Integuments in general, and are much more numerous than the Subcutaneous Red Veins. They can be traced from the Toes, round which they form a Plexus. From the Toes several Branches, likewise forming a Plexus, run over the top of the Foot, to the inner part of the Leg, and from that along the corresponding part of the Knee. From the outer part of the Foot, another Plexus arises, which runs along the outside of the Leg, where it splits into two Divisions, one of which crosses oblique- ly over the fore part of the Tibia, to the Lymphatics at the inner side of the Knee. The other Division passes partly to the Popliteal Glands, some ascending upon the outer and back part of the Thigh. The Popliteal Glands are commonly two or three in number, and are situated near the Artery of the same name; but frequently they are so small, and so much buried in Fat, as to be discovered with difficulty. From128 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. From the Sole another Plexus of Lymphatics arises, and joins those upon the Leg already described. From the inside of the Knee a Plexus runs up, con- sisting of from twelve to twenty Trunks, which pass afterwards on the fore and inner part of the Thigh to the Groin. The greater part of the Trunks of the last Plexus ac- company the Vena Saphana Major, and, in their pas- sage, they receive many small Branches from the outer and back part of the Thigh. In the Groin, they split into Branches, which pene- trate the Inguinal Glands. The Inguinal Glands are generally from six or eight to a dozen in number, and are of very different sizes * but sometimes the number is smaller, from two or more of them being united into one large Gland. Of the Inguinal Glands, some lie in the Angle be- tween the Thigh and Abdomen, and others a few inches farther down on the fore part of the Thigh. The greater number are placed upon the outer part of the Tendinous Aponeurosis, the rest deeper, being m contact with the great Blood-vessels. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Thigh enter the lowest of these Glands; one or more of them, however, frequently pass the first Glands they meet with, and penetrate others higher in the Groin ; and sometimes a fewr do not enter any Glands till they go into the Abdo- men. The superficial Lymphatics of the upper and back part of the Thigh, with those of the Nates, Abdo- men, and Loins, also enter into the Inguinal Glands. The Deep-seated Lymphatics of the Lower Extremity, areFart VL] OF THE ABSORBENTS, 129 are situated among the Muscles.—They accompany the Blood-vessels, and are few when compared with the Sub- cutaneous Set. In several places, one only has been yet observed on each side of the Trunks of the Arteries, though, in others, they are somewhat more numerous, forming a Plexus over the Blood-vessels. They arise from the sides of the Toes, and from the deep parts of the Sole, accompanying the Plantar Ar- teries ; and, after reaching the Leg, they run up with the Posterior Tibial Artery to the Ham. In the Ham, they lie close upon the Trunk of the Artery, and enter the Popliteal Glands. Besides these, there are similar but smaller Lympha- tics, which begin upon the uppe r part of the Foot, and afterwards accompany the Anterior Tibial, and the Fi- bular Arteries, receiving Branches from the deep parts of the fore and outer side of the Leg. The Anterior Tibial and the Fibular Lymphatics ter- minate with the Posterior Tibial in the Glands of the Ham. From the Popliteal Glands, two and sometimes more Trunks of considerable size are sent out, which accom- pany the Femoral Artery, ar.d, at different distances, communicate with each other, by Branches which pass obliquely across the Artery. At the upper part of the Thigh, they enter the un- dermost of the Inguinal Glands, where the Lymph of the Superficial and deep-seated Absorbents of the Limb is mixed and incorporated. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Scrotum enter the Vol. Ill, X ' upper130 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI The upper and inner Inguinal Glands ; those deeper seated passing with the Lymphatics of the Testicle into the Abdomen. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Penis begin at the Prepuce, and form a few Trunks which run principally upon the Dorsum Penis, receiving in their passage Branches which turn round from its Inferior Surface. In some Subjects, they unite into Trunks in the middle of the Dorsum Penis, which afterwards separate into right and left parts. In others, they are more unconnected j and in all, they appear to divide at the root of the Penis into right and left Branches, passing into the corresponding In- guinal Glands, which lie next the Symphysis Pubis. The Deep-seated Lymphatics of the Penis arise from the Gians, and from the body of the Penis, and accomr pany the Arteries into the under part of the Pelvis. The Lymphatics of the Testicle are numerous, and are among the largest of the whole Body j some of them exceeding the size of a Crow-quill. They arise from the Coats and Substance of the Tes- ticle, and from the Epididymis, and run with the Sper- matic Cord through the lting of the Abdominal Muscle, to terminate in the Lumbar Glands.—In their passage, they have few Communications with each other. The Lymphatics of the External Parts of Generation in Women, go partly to the Inguinal Glands of each side, and partly through the Bings of the External Oblique Muscles, in company with the Bound Ligaments oi’ the Uterus, and terminate in the Iliac and in the Lumbar Glands.Part VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. 1S1 I 2 The % The Superficial Lymphatics of the under part of the Ab- domen, those of the Loins, Nates, and Verge of the Anus, pass into the Inguinal Glands ; each set terminating in such of the Glands as lie nearest the parts to which the Vessels belong. The Inguinal Glands, having received the Lympha- tics of the Inferior Extremity, and likewise the Super- ficial Lymphatics of the external Parts of Generation, send out Trunks fewer in number, but considerably larger than those which enter the Glands. The Vasa Efferentia of the Inguinal Glands enter the Abdomen under Pgupart’s Ligament, in company with the Inguinal Artery and Vein. Some of them go into the Glands situated about the Iliac or the Lumbar Blood-vessels. The Illiac Glands are frequently almost as numerous as the Glands of the Groin, and one of them is generally found larger than the rest* and placed at the inner edge of Po opart’s Ligament. The Lumbar Glands are more numerous than any of the classes already described, and are placed over the Abdominal Aorta, Inferior Cava, and Bodies of the Lumbar Vertebrae. The rest of the Lymphatics from the lower Extre- ty descend at the side of the Pelvis, near the Internal Iliac Blood-vessels, and pass through some of the Glands which are situated there. The last-mentioned Lymphatics are joined by Absor- bezits from the Viscera of the Pelvis in general, especial- ly by those of the Bladder and Vesiculce Seminales in the Male, and by a portion of those of the Uterus and of the Vagina in the Female.132 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. The Lymphatics of the Bladder, in both Sexes, ac- company its principal Blood-vessels, pass through some small Glands upon the side of it, and, at the under part of the Pelvis, go into the Glands which surround the Internal Iliac Artery and Vein. The Lymphatics of the Uterus run in two sets. One, which is the largest, goes with the Hypogastric, the other with the Spermatic Blood-vessels. The Hypogastric Lymphatics form a Plexus which runs from above downwards, into Glands situated on the sides of the Vagina. From these Glands they pass to others which surround the Internal Iliac Vessels, and then, intermixing with the Trunks from the Extremi- ties, thev terminate in the Thoracic Duct. The Spermatic Lymphatics terminate in the Lumbar Plexus. The Lymphatics of the Uterus, like its Blood-vessels, are much enlarged, and of course easily discovered, in the Gravid state, where they are also observed to be ex- tremely numerous. The Lymphatics of the Rectum go first into small Glands which lie between it and the Os Sacrum, and afterwards terminate in the Lumbar Plexus of Glands and Vessels. Besides the Lymphatics which lie on the inside of the External Iliac Artery, there are others situated on the outside of it, upon the Psoas. Of these one part passes up to the Lumbar Plexus, and goes under the Aorta in different Branches which terminate in the Thoracic Duct. Another part pusses under the Iliac Arteries, and ap- pears upon the Os Sacrum, forming a remarkable Plexus, which13J Part VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. I 3 The which goes through many Glands, and is chiefly situated behind the Aorta and Vena Cava. The Lacteal Vessels, so calied from conveying a Fluid like Milk, which is termed Chyle, begin upon the inner Surface of the Intestines. Each Lacteal takes its ori- gin upon one of the Villi, by numerous short radiated Branches, and each Branch is furnished with an Orifice For imbibing the Chyle. From the Villi, the Laeteals run a considerable way under the Muscular Coat of the Intestines, and then pass obliquely through them, uniting in their course into larger Branches. They follow the direction of the Blood-vessels, and their Trunks are double the number of the Arteries,— one being situated on each side of them. Upon the outside of the Intestines an External Set appear. They run between the Peritoneal and Muscu- lar Coats, and commonly proceed some way in the di- rection of the Intestine, and with few Ramifications. The Superficial and deep-seated Laeteals communi- cate in the Substance of the Intestines, and, after leav- ing them, commonly form a Plexus, which runs be- tween the plies of the Mesentery and Meso-colon, with- out following the coarse of the Blood-vessels. The Laeteals of the Jejunum are large and more nu- merous than those of the Ilium; the principal part of the Chyle being contained in this Intestine. In their course, they pass through a great number of Lacteal or Mesenteric Glands, .which, like the Laeteals themselves, are largest and most numerous in that part pf the Mesentery which belongs to the Jejunum.134 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. The Mesenteric Glands are seated in the Fat, between the Layers of the Mesentery, near the Branches of the Blood-vessels. They are commonly scattered over the Mesentery, at a little distance from each other; but there are seldom any observed within two or three inches of the Intes- ti les. They are of different sizes in different parts of the Mesentery, some being about half or two-thirds of an inch in diameter, while others are so small as to be traced with difficulty. Their .Structure is the same with that of the Absor- bent Glands in other parts of the Body, but they arc generally flatter, and are of a pale colour. When filled with the Chyle, they are almost as white as the Fluid contained in them. They are considered by some Authors as dividing the Lacteals into different Orders. From the Intestines to the Glands, the Lacteals are called Vasa Laciea Pi imi Generis, and from the Glands to the Thoracic Duct, Vasa Lactea Sccundi Generis. Some divide them into three Orders ;—the first con- sisting of those which go from the Intestines to the Glands,—the second, of those which run from one Set of Glands to another,—and the third, of those which pass from the Glands to the Thoracic Duct. 'Hie Lacteals of the Small Intestines, after passing through the different Glands in the Mesentery, form at last one, and frequently two, three, or more Trunks, which accompany the Trunks oi the Superior Mesente- ric Artery, till they arrive at the right side of the Aorta, wherePa tit VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. 135 where they sometimes pass into the beginning of the Thoracic Duct. At other times they descend a little, and join the Trunks from the Inferior Extremities, to form that Duct. The Absorbents of the Great arc of an inferior size in proportion to those of the Small Intestines, and have seldom, though sometimes, been observed to be filled with Chyle. In their course, they go through the Meso-colic Glands, which are situated between the Layers of the Meso-colon, but are generally much less numerous and considerably smaller than those of the Mesentery, or of most other parts of the Body. The Absorbents of the Ceecirn, and of the Right loca - tion of the Colon, join those of the Small Intestines, about the root of the Mesentery. j Those of the Left Portion of the Colon accompany the Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and communicate with large Lymphatics near its root. They terminate at last in the Lumbar Glands, or go directly into the lower part of the Thoracic Duct. Of the Absorbents of the Stomach, one Set runs upon its Small, and another upon its Great Curvature ; but neither the one nor the other are found to carry Chyle, though a few Absorbents have been observed filled with it in other Animals,—as the Dog. The first Set, composed of Branches from the upper and under Surfaces of the Stomach, accompany the Su- perior Coronary Artery. In their passage, they go through a few small Glands situated at the junction of the Omentum Minus with the 14 Stomach,136 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. The Stomach, and, after becoming larger, they enter other Glands in company with the Deep-seated Lymphatics of the Liver, along with which they terminate in the Thoracic Duct. The other Set pass from the Great Curvature of the Stomach, partly to the right, and partly to the leftside, and, as on the Small Curvature, are formed of Branches from its opposite Surfaces. Those on the left side receive the Lymphatics of the middle and corresponding half of the Omentum Majus ; running to the left side of the Large Curvature of the Stomach, and passing through one or two small Glands on it, they go with the Lymphatics of the Spleen and Pancreas to the Thoracic Duct. Those of the right side receive the Lymphatics of the corresponding halt of the Great Omentum, and also pass through one or two small Glands which lie close to the liight Gastric Artery. In their descent by the Pylorus, they meet the Plexus which accompanies the Superior Coronary Artery, and run with them and with the Deep Lymphatics of the Liver to the Thoracic Duct. The Lymphatics of the Liver, like those of the other Viscera, run in two Sets; the Superficial of which are numerous, and unite into Trunks in the manner Roots unite to form the Trunk of a Tree. The Superficial and Deep Sets communicate so freely, that upon injecting the Lymphatics of the Lxternai Sur- face, the Deep-seated Absorbcuts are readily filled from them.137 Fart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. The principal part of the Lymphatics upon the con- vex Surface of the Liver, go by a Right and Left Plexus towards the Suspensory Ligament. Running along this Ligament, they directly perforate the Diaphragm, after which they pass through Giands situated upon the anterior part of the Pericardium. Other Lymphatics from the convex part of the Liver run towards the Lateral Ligaments, where they form on each side one or more Trunks of considerable size. From the Lateral Ligaments they pass through the Substance of the Diaphragm, and afterwards run for- wards on its convex Surface, following the direction of the Ribs.—Not unfrequently these Vessels, instead of perforating the Diaphragm, run downwards, and ter- minate in the Thoracic Duct, within the Abdomen. In their course upon the Diaphragm, they often send Branches backwards, which terminate in Glands upon the Esophagus.—In other instances, these Branches are observed to go directly into the Thoracic Duct. They receive Branches from the Substance of the Diaphragm, and, alter perforating two or three Glands upon its Surface, they join the Trunks from the Liga- jnentum Suspensorium. The Lymphatics from the Lateral Ligaments, joined by those from the Ligamentum Suspensorium, form either a principal Trunk, or a Plexus, which runs up, sometimes between the Layers ol the Anterior Medias- tinum, and, at other times; in company with the Inter- nal Mammary Blood-vessels on each side. When they run in the Anterior Mediastinum, they most l133 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. most frequently terminate in the upper end of the Tho- racic Duct;—sometimes, however, they communicate with the general termination on the right side of the Neck. When they accompany the Internal Mammary Ves- sels, they are observed to terminate, the left in the Tho- racic Duct, and the right in the general termination of that side. The Lymphatics on the concave Surface of the Liver run towards the Porta, and join the Deep-seated Set.— One part of them goes over the under Surface of the Gall-bladder, from which they derive numerous small Branches. The Deep-seated Lymphatics accompany the Blood and Biliary Vessels, and, communicating with the Su- perficial Absorbents already mentioned, they pass through several Glands situated about the Trunk of the Vena Portae, and terminate in the Thoracic Duct near the Root of the Superior Mesenteric Artery. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Spleen are re- markably small. They pass from its convex to its con- cave Surface, where they join the Deep-seated Lym- phatics, which are very considerable in size and number. The Splenic Plexus of Lymphatics accompany the Splenic Artery, and go through several Glands of a dark colour, scattered along the Surface of that Vessel. The Lymphatics of the Spleen receive those of the Pancreas, which run into them in a transverse direc- tion. In their course, they unite with the Lymphatics of thePart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. 139 the Stomach and those descending from the under part of the Liver; and the whole of them, near the head of the Pancreas, form a considerable Plexus. From this Plexus Branches are sent off, some passing over the Duodenum, and others under it, and all of them going into the Thoracic Duct, near the termination of the Lacteal s. The Lymphatics of the Kidney are seldom seen, ex- cepting when it is enlarged or ulcerated ; in which case they may sometimes be distinctly observed. The Superficial Abso/bents run from its outer to- wards its inner edge, where, meeting with those deep seated, they commonly unite with them, and form a Plexus which accompanies the Renal Blood-vessels, after which they pass through some of the Lumbar Glands, and terminate in large Lymphatics near tho Aorta. The Lymphatics of the Capsid a Renal is, which arc numerous in proportion to its size, terminate in the Re- nal Plexus. All the Absorbents already described, excepting those from the convex Surface of the Liver, terminate in the Thoracic Duct near its beginning. The Thoracic Duct, at its under extremity, is formed by the union of three, or sometimes of more principal Trunks ; the first of which is composed of the Lympha- tics of the right, and the second of those of the left In- ferior Extremity;—the third Trunk, or set of Trunks, belongs chiefly to the Lacteals. These large Absorbents unite so as to form the Duct over the third Vertebra of the Loins. Sometimes140 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. Sometimes they unite upon the second Vertebra, where the Duct formed by them is twice or thrice as large in diameter as it is higher up. Commonly it enlarges again upon the first Lumbar Vertebra, where it has generally been called the Rc- ceptaculum Chyli, and considered as the beginning of the Duct; being often found forming an oval, or Pyri- form Bag, about the third of an inch in diameter. These large Trunks which form the Thoracic Duct lie close upon the Spine, those of the right side being placed below the Right Crus of the Diaphragm, and those of the left between the Aorta and Spine, while the Thoracic Duct itself lies at first behind the Aorta, but afterwards passes from it upwards and a little to the right side, till it gets before the first Vertebra of the Loins. Here it is situated behind the Right Crus of the Dia- phragm, a little higher than the Right Renal Artery, from whence it passes upwards, and afterwards appears in the Thorax, upon the fore and right side of the Spine, between the Aorta and Vena Azygos, where it is supposed to be considerably assisted by the strokes of the Aorta in impelling its Fluids. In the middle of the Thorax, it is smaller than else- where, being only about a line in diameter. After this it gradually enlarges, and, near its termination, is about an eighth or tenth of an inch over. In the Thorax, it receives the Lymphatics of the Spa- tia Intercostalia, one or two of which accompany each of the Intercostal Arteries, and the whole go through small Glands placed near these Arteries, but most nu- merousPart VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. HI merous about the sides of the Dorsal Vertebrae, where they form a sort of Chain. Here, likewise, it receives Branches from the Eso- phagus and Lungs *, the former of which is surrounded with a number of Glands, and with a remarkable and intricate Plexus of Lymphatic Vessels. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Lungs form la^ge* Areolae, which have smaller Areolae within them ; the larger running chiefly between the Lobules, and the smaller passing over them in such a manner as to cover almost the whole Surface of the Lungs. From the Surface they go to the root of the Lungs, where they pass through the Bronchial Glands, which have already been taken notice of in the description of the Lungs. At this place they are joined by the deep-seated Lym- phatics, which creep along the Branches of the Trachea and of the Pulmonary Blood-vessels. Through the medium of the Bronchial Glands, the Lymphatics of the two sides of the Lungs communicate freely with each other. Having left the Glands, the principal part of those from the Left Lung form a Trunk of considerable size, which terminates in the Thoracic Duct, behind the Bi- furcation of the Trachea. The rest of the Absorbents of the left Lung pass through Glands behind the Arch of the Aorta, which are likewise common to those of the Lleart. They run at last by a principal Trunk into the Tiioracic Duct near its termination. • AfterM2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVI. After leaving the Bronchial Glands, the Absorbents of the Right Lung form a few principal Trunks, one of which commonly ascends on the fore part of the Vena Cava Superior, and, running in a convoluted manner, opens into the Trunk which terminates in the Veins in the right side of the Neck. The rest of these Trunks go into the Thoracic Duct, near the Bifurcation of the Trachea. The Absorbents of the Heart are small, but numerous, and form principal Trunks which accompany the Coro- nary Aiteries, and, like them, the largest belong to the Left Ventricle. From the side of the Right Coronary Artery, an Ab- sorbent Trunk, which corresponds with it, passes over the Arch of the Aorta to a Gland commonly found be- hind the Origin of the Carotid Arteries. From this Gland it goes afterwards to the general Termination in the right side of the Neck. The Lymphatic Trunk accompanying the Left Coro- nary Artery is formed of two principal Branches.—One of these runs in the Groove between the Ventricles on the superior Surface of the Heart: the other runs in a similar Groove on the under side of the Heart, and ha- ving reached the space between the Auricle and Ven- tricle, turns round to join the former Branch near its corresponding Artery. The 'Trunk runs next to a Gland placed behind the Pulmonary Artery, between the Arch of the Aorta and Root of the Trachea, which, with the others here si- tuated, is common to the Absorbents of the Heart and Lungs. ThisPart. VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. . u$ This Trunk terminates at length in the upper end of the Thoracic Duct. The Thoracic Duct, after receiving numerous Lym- phatics within the Thorax, and having reached as high as the third or fourth Dorsal Vertebra, passes obliquely over to the leftside of the Spine, behind the Esophagus, and end of the Arch of the Aorta or beginning of the Aorta Dcscendens, till it reaches the Left Carotid Ar- tery. After this, it emerges from the Thorax, and runs be- tween the Longus Colli and Internal Jugular Vein, to about the Sixth Vertebra of the Neck. It now makes a turn downwards, and, after descend- ing near an inch, terminates in the upper and back part of the angle formed by the Left Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins. Throughout its whole course, it has a waving appear- ance, and this becomes more conspicuous in proportion as it is distended by Injection. Near the middle ot the Thorax, it not unfrequently splits into two or more Branches, and sometimes forms a Plexus, the Branches of which again unite into a common Trunk a little higher up. After emerging from the Thoi;ax, it commonly di- vides into two parts, which unite again previous to the termination of the Duct in the Red Veins ; and where there is no division, there is generally a Dilatation or Sac at the Termination. Sometimes there is one termination in the Angle formed by the Red Veins, and one or two in the Sub- clavianHi COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. clavian Veins, and now and then, though more seldom, in the Internal Jugular, near the Angle. In a few instances, it has been found double through its whole length ; one Duct going to the common place of termination in the left side of the Neck, and the other to the corresponding part in the righr. It has also, in a few rare instances, been observed to terminate in the Veins in the right side ot the Neck, while a short Trunk, similar to that commonly found there, has terminated in the left side. The Superior, in a similar manner with the Inferior Extremities, have two sets of Lymphatics, one lying immediately under the Integuments, and belonging to the Skin and Cellular Substance under it, the other ac- companying the principal Blood-vessels, and belonging to the deep-seated parts. The Superficial Lymphatics of the Superior Extre- mities are numerous, and are readijy seen in Emaciated Dropsical Subjects. They arise from the fore and back parts of the Fin- gers and Hand, by a considerable number of Branches, and form an extensive Plexus upon the corresponding sides of the Fore-arm. Those upon the anterior part of the Fore-arm run directly upwards to the Arm, while the Lymphatics on its back part separate into two sets; one of which passes obliquely over the Muscles on the Radius, and the other over those on the Ulna, to join the Lymphatics on the anterior part of the Fore-arm. The Lymphatics of the Fore-arm run over the bend- ingPart VI.J OF THE ABSORBENTS. 145 Voi. III. K prom ing of the Elbow, and afterwards ascend upon the fore and inner part of the Arm ; the greater number of them running near the Basilic Vein. Some of them frequently pass through small Glands placed along the Humeral Artery, one of which is com- monly found a little above the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri; others do not appear to enter any Glands till they reach those of the Axilla. A few Lymphatics accompany the Cephalic Vein, and receive Branches from the outer part of the Arm ; and, after passing between the Pectoralis and Deltoides, penetrate Glands at the under side of the Clavicle. Of the deep-seated Lymphatics, two commonly ac- company each principal Artery in the Fore-arm ; and these, uniting at the Elbow, form two. principal Lym- phatics, which accompany the Trunk of the Humeral Artery.' Having reached the upper part of the Arm, they enter the Axillary Glands, where they are joined by Lymphatics which come from the Mamma and lateral parts of the Thorax, after passing through small Glands placed upon the under edge of the Mamma and of the Pectoralis Major. The Axillary Glands vary in number and size in dif- ferent Persons : They are somewhat smaller, and fewer in number, than those of the Groin : They are gene- rally' surrounded by a considerable quantity of Fat, and are situated in the hollow between the Pectoralis Major and Latissimus Dorsi; adhering closely to the Trunks ®f the Axillary Blood-vessels and Nerves.H6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VI. From the Axillary Glands large Branches go under the Subclavian Muscle, and form a Trunk, which, in the left side, commonly joins the Thoracic Duct near its termination. In the right side, it joins the Short Trunk which forms the Second General Termination of the Absorbent System. Sometimes this Trunk, pro- ceeding from the Superior Extremity, terminates in the Subclavian Vein, at a little distance from the General Termination. Sometimes two Trunks arise from the Axillary Glands in each side, in which case one goes to the end of the Thoracic Duct, or the corresponding Trunk in the right side, while the other terminates in the Subcla- vian Vein. The Axillary Glands receive also the Subcutaneous Lymphatics from the back part of the Thorax, together with the Lymphatics from the Integuments and Muscles of the Scapula. The Lymphatics on the outside of the Head accom- pany the Blood-vessels, and pass through Glands in their way to the Neck. Those accompanying the Temporal Artery go through small Glands connected with the Parotid Gland, and also through others situated immediately under the root of the Zygoma. The Lymphatics which accompany the Occipital Blood-vessels penetrate one or two minute Glands placed a little behind the root of the Ear, and over the Mas- toid Process of the Temporal Bone. The Lymphatics proceeding from the different parts of147 Part VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. From K2 of the Face, accompany the Branches and Trunk of the Facial Artery. Some of them pass through Glands situated upon the outside of the Buccinator, while the principal Trunks go through a number of large Glands placed upon the outer, and also at the under part of the Lower Jaw, at the anterior edge of the Masseter, and about the Infe- rior Maxillary Gland. The Lymphatics from the inner fart of the Nose run principally with the Internal Maxillary Artery, and pass through Glands situated behind the Angle of the Lower Jaw, where they are joined by those which belong to the inner parts of the Mouth. The Lymphatics of the Tongue, and likewise of the Muscles and other parts about the Os Hyoides, enter the Glands placed behind the Angle of the Lower Jaw. Lymphatics have been frequently searched for in the Brain, but their existence in that Organ is not yet fully ascertained ; though rendered highly probable, from an appearance of Lymphatics having been now and then observed upon the Surface of the Dura Ma- ter, and between the Tunica Arachnoides and Pia Ma- ter,from Lymphatics and Glands being occasionally found in, or immediately on the outside of the Pas- sages of the Blood-vessels of the Brain,—from Swell- ings in the Lymphatic Glands of the Neck, following Diseases of the Brain,—from the Absorption of Water, which has sometimes happened in Hydrocephalous Cases, and—from their having been found on the Brains of Fishes.HS COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PaetVL From the Superficial arul Deep Parts of the Head in general, the Lymphatics accompany the External and Internal Jugular Veins and the Carotid Arteries ; re- ceiving at the same time Branches from the Larynx, Pharynx, Muscles, and other parts of the Neck. The principal part of these Lymphatics go along with the Internal Jugular Vein and Carotid Artery, and, in their passage, form a remarkable Plexus, which goes through the numerous Glands seated near the Blood- vessels, composing a chain, from which they are termed Concatenates. The Glandules Concatenates are more numerous than any other set of Glands in the Body, excepting those which belong to the Mesentery. The Cervical Plexus of Lymphatics, having passed through the Glandula? Concatenate, and having re- ceived some Branches from the interior part of the Thorax and Axillary Glands, unite at the bottom of the Neck into a Trunk, and sometimes two; which, in the left side, enter the Thoracic Duct near its termination, and, in the right, go into the Trunk, which forms the General Termination of that side. The Trunk which forms this General Termination is only from a quarter of an inch to half an inch in length, but its size not much less than that of the Thoracic Duct. It is formed by Lymphatics from the right side of the Liver, Diaphragm, Heart, and the Right Lobe of the Lungs, by ihose of the Right Arm, right side of the Head, Neck, and Thyroid Gland; the Lymphatics of theH9 Part VI.] OF THE ABSORBENTS. the left side of the Thyroid Gland forming a Trunk which ends in the Thoracic Duct. Besides this Common Termination, some of these Lymphatics occasionally open into the Internal Jugular, or into the Subclavian Vein, at a little distance from thp Angle formed by these two Veins. ££ JP ARTPART VII. OF \ THE NERVES.\OF THE v NERVES IN GENERAL, 1 he Nerves are firm, white Cords, which are gene- . rally considered as being directly continued from the Medullary Substance of the Brain and Spinal Marrow j —although instances have been frequently met with, where the Brain, and even the Spinal Marrow, have been found nearly obliterated in the Foetus, and yet the Nerves retained their usual appearance. They are composed of Funiculi closely connected, and each of these again of smaller Fibrilla, which may be subdivided into parts so extremely minute, as almost to elude the naked Eye, but which may be readily seen by the assistance of the Microscope:—no cavity, however, has been yet observed in them. The Medullary Part of the Fibrilloe appears to be fur- nished with Cineritious Substance derived from their Pia Mater ; in proof of which, they are observed to be in general ol a browner colour than the Medullary Sub- stance ol the Brain, and larger in their course than at their supposed origin.—Monro’s Ohs. on New. Syst. Theloi COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. The Medullary Substance of the Fibrillse is Pulpy and tender, but rendered thicker and stronger by the coverings they receive from the Tunica Arachnoidea and Pia Mater while within the Bones, and more parti- cularly by the additional covering given them by the Dura Mater upon their exit. The Dura Mater, in its passage through the Base of the Cranium, and between the different Vertebrae, is connected by its External Surface to the Pericranium and Periosteum \ while the inner part of it, together with the Tunica Arachnoidea and Pia Mater, is conti- nued along the Nerves. The Involucray or Coverings, inclose each of the Nerves in general, and likewise the several FibrilliE of which they are composed, whereby their size, as well as strength, is greatly increased. The Nerves, soon after leaving the Bones, have the Dura Mater so intimately connected with them, that it has been considered, by some Authors, as degenerating into condensed Cellular Substance, notwithstanding it still retains the general appearance of the Dura Mater. Upon examining the Nerves, especially the small ones, in a living or recently dead Animal, they are observed to have numerous White Lines placed transversely, or in a serpentine direction.—Obs. on Nerv. Syst. When the Nerves are moderately stretched, this ap- pearance becomes less evident j and when extended considerably, or when macerated in water, it vanishes entirely. Prochaska (De Came Musctdari) supposes these serpentine Lines to be owing to a decussation of Ves- sels155 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. ✓ V sels and Fibres of Cellular Substance straitening the Nerves. Dr Monro considers them as Folds or Joints allow- ing the Nerves to accommodate themselves to the va- rious states of Flexion and Extension. The Nerves are supplied with Arteries from the neigh- bouring Blood-vessels, to which they return correspond- ing Veins. The Arteries, however, are small, and are injected with difficulty, excepting in the large Nerves, where they are more considerable, and where, after a minute injection, the Nerve receives the colour of the matter injected. Upon dividing the Nerves, they are not found to pos- sess much contractility ; while the Arteries, upon being cut, are observed to retract very considerably. They are generally lodged in the common Cellular Substance and Fat, and in the Interstices of the Viscera and Muscles, where they are protected from compres- sion ; though in several parts they are exposed to the hardness of Bones, or to the action of Muscles, over or through which they pass. In their course through the different parts of the Body, they generally run as straight as is consistent with the nature of the particular part over which they pass, and their own safety. In their progress, they divide into Braiichcsy which become gradually smaller, and which, though taken col- lectively, are inferior in size to the Trunks from which they issue. The i156 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. The Branches generally go off at acute angles; but in several places they have a retrograde direction. They have commonly the same kind of distribution in the opposite sides of the same Subject, and vary little in this respect in different Subject^. In some parts of the Body, several Nerves unite to- gether, and form a Plexus; in others, they unite into a Common Trunk ; and in many, by such an union, a hard Knot, termed Ganglion, is formed. When the Plexuses or the Common Trunks arc mi- nutely examined by slitting open their Coverings, it is found, that their Fibrillae are intermixed in such a manner, that each of the Nerves passing out from the Plexus, or from the Common Trunk, is composed of Fibrillae from several, or from all the Nerves which en- tered it, in consequence of which, the Organs in ge- neral are furnished with Nerves from various sources.— Obs. on Ncrv. Syst. The Ganglia differ from each other in size and figure: They have thicker Coats, and are more Vascular than the Nerves ; and are larger than the whole of the Nerves, taken conjunctly, which enter into or go out from them.—They are supposed to serve as fresh sources of Nervous Influence. They are composed of Nervous Fibrillae, covered by something like a Cineritious Matter, and are so divided, multiplied, and intermixed, that each ot the Nerves passing out from a Ganglion is found to be composed of Fibrillae derived from the greater part of the Nerves which enter it.—Obs. on Nerv. Syst. Where Nerves pass out from the side of a Ganglion, they %I Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. 157 : they are composed of Fibrillse which come off in con- i trary directions ;—the one set from the beginning, the ■ other from the opposite extremity of the Ganglion. The Nerves which go out from the different Ganglia have the same structure with those which enter them, but are found, with only a few exceptions, to be rather larger. In the Trunk of a Nerve, the Cords appear to run parallel to each other; but when macerated in water, so as to dissolve the Cellular Substance, or when other- wise accurately examined, they are seen evidently to in- termix somewhat after the same manner of the Fibrilla? in the Plexus, or in the Ganglia.—Obs. on Nerv. Syst. The Termination of the Nerves is soft, pulpy, and pellucid, as is distinctly seen in the Retina of the Eye or Ear ; the external Covering being entirely laid aside, while the Pia Mater, in particular, accompanies them throughout. The Nerves preserve the motion of the Muscular Fi- bres. They constitute the immediate Organs of Sensation, and convey impressions made upon them to the Mind. The manner in which these Impressions are produced, —whether by a Vibration communicated to the Nerves ; —or by a Liquid called Nervous Fluid, contained and moving in them j—or by an Electric Matter common to them and many other Substances;—or in what manner that Power acts, termed Animal Electricity, which has been lately discovered to take place in the Animal king- dom, upon the application of certain Metals,—is not yet understood. DISTRI-158 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. They DISTRIBUTION OF THE NERVES. The Nervf.s are distinguished into two Classes; one arising from the Brain, termed Cerebral, the other from the Spinal Marrow, termed Spinal Nerves. The Cerebral Nerves are generally reckoned Nine or Ten Pairs, besides a particular Pair, which has the name of Sympathetic. They pass through the Holes in the Base of the Cra- nium, and receive their respective names according to their Order; or from their Functions; or from the Parts on which they are dispersed, &c. The Spinal Nerves consist of Twenty-nine or Thirty Pairs, which pass out between the different Vertebrae, besides a Pair called Accessory, which enter the Cranium from the top of the Spinal Marrow, and afterwards pass out with one of the Cerebral Nerves. Nerves which pass through the Base of the Cranium. The First Pair, or Olfactory Nerves, arise, on each side of the Brain, by three separate Striae, from the Corpora Striata, at the under and back part of the Anterior Lobes, near where the Carotid Arteries enter the Fissures of Sylvius. They are more tender than the other Nerves, and al>o dilfer from them in not being composed of Fasci- culi.159 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. They run each in a Furrow, upon the under Surface of the Anterior Lobes of the Brain, converging a little, and becoming somewhat larger, till they reach the Cri- briform Plate of the Ethmoid Bone. Upon this Plate, each forms an Oblong Bulb, which, in colour and consistence, resembles the Cortical part of the Brain, but is mixed with streaks of Medullary Matter. From this Bulb, numerous Nervous Filaments are sent off, which pass through the Holes of the Cribri- form Plate, and now become firm and strong like the other Nerves, by receiving a covering from the Dura Mater. After entering the Nose, they divide into two Por- tions or Planes, one passing on the Septum, the other upon the Ossa Turbinata, and other parts opposite to the Septum, and both running at first in Grooves of the Bones. They form a beautiful Plexus, which is spread out upon that side of the Membrane of the Nose which is contiguous to the Bones, and maybe traced a consider- able way upon it in distinct Threads, which, becoming gradually smaller, sink into the Membrane, and arc sup- posed to terminate on the Surface next the Cavity of the Nose, there constituting the Organ of Smell. The Second Pair, or Optic Nerves, which are of great size, arise from the Tlialami Optici, and arc con- nected in their passage to Tubercles at the root of the Infundibulum, which furnish them with an addition of Medullary Substance. They are of a purer white than other Nerves, having less160 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVII. less Cineritious Matter entering their composition ; and differ also in the Pia Mater furnishing them with a ge- neral Covering, before it invests the several Fasciculi of which they are formed. At the fore part of the Sella Turcica they unite, and have their Medullary Parts intimately intermixed. From this union, they go obliquely outwards and for- wards through the Foramina Optica into the Orbits ; and advancing in the Orbits in a waving direction, to prevent them from being overstretched in the motions of the Eye, they perforate the Balls, to be expanded into the Retinfe, which have been already described. The Third Pair, or Motores Oculorum, smaller than the Optic Nerves, arise at the under, inner, and back part of the Crura Cerebri, or between the Cor- pora Albicantia and Tuber Annulare, by numerous Threads, which are soon collected into their respective Trunks. They pass outwards, perforate the Dura Mater at the sides of the Posterior Clinoid Process, and, running along the upper part of the Cavernous Sinuses, at the outside of the Carotid Arteries, they get through the Foramina Lacera into the Orbits. Upon entering the Orbits, they divide into several Branches, which supply the greater number of the Muscles of the Eye, in consequence of which the Nerves have obtained their particular name. A Branch runs to each of the Muscles within the Orbits, excepting the Trochlearis and Abductor; and the Nerve likewise assists in forming a small Ganglion, termedPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 161 termed Ophthalmic, from which Twigs are sent off to supply the Ball of the Eye. The Fourth Pair, or Pathetic, have their origin the highest of the Cerebral Nerves, and are the most slender of the Body* being generally formed of one Fasciculus only on each side. They arise by a single, and sometimes by a double root, behind the Testes, from the Medullary Expan- sion which lies over the passage to the Fourth Ventricle, and which unites the Processus ad Testes to each other. They afterwards turn round the Crura Cerebri, and, some way behind the entrance of the Third Pair, perforate the Dura Mater at the edges of the Tento- rium. They run afterwards along the Cavernous Sinuses, at the outer side of the Third Pair, then cross over that Pair, and passing out of the Cranium through the Fo- ramina Lacera, they go obliquely over the Muscles at the upper part of the Orbits, to be entirely dispersed upon the Patheticus or Trochlearis on each side. The Fifth Pair, or Trifacial, or Par Trigemi- num, which are the largest Nerves of the Brain, arise, each by an anterior small and a posterior large Portion, from the side of the Tuber Annulare, where the Crura Cerebelli join it. They enter the Dura Mater a little below the Tento- rium, over the points of the Partes Petrosas of the Temporal Bones, and form a Plexus on each side, in which upwards of fifty Fasciculi have frequently been enumerated. The Plexus sinks close by the outside of the Caver- Vol. III. Jm nous162 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PautVIF. The nous Sinus, concealed by a Doubling of the Dura Mater, and forms a Ganglion sometimes called Gasserian. The Ganglion is of a Semilunar form, and placed transversely with respect to the Trunk of the Nerve. From the opposite and curved edge of the Ganglion, three large Branches come out •, the first and anterior, termed Ophthalmic,—the second and middle, the Supe- rior Maxillary,—and the third and posterior, the Infe- rior Maxillary. The First Branch of the Fifth Pair, at the side of the Sella Turcica, is situated lower than the Third Pair, and afterwards crosses over it, being previously connected by Nervous Matter to the Trunk of the Fourth Pair. It goes through the Foramen Lacerum into the Orbit, and is there divided into the following Branches, viz. The Supra-Orhitar, which is the largest of the whole, being a continuation of the Ophthalmic. It passes immediately under the Membrane which lines the upper part of the Orbit, and splits into two Branches of unequal size. The smaller Branch, termed Supra-Trochlearis, runs under the Superciliary Ridge to the Upper Eye-lid and Fore-head. The larger passes through the Foramen Supra-Orbi- tarium,—or over the Superciliary Ridge when the Fo- ramen is wanting,—sends Branches to the Upper Eye- lid, and divides into several others, which run back, partly above, but chiefly under the Frontalis, to supply the fore and upper part of the Head in general, while minute Fibres appear to penetrate the Bones :163 Pajit VII.] OF THE NERVES. The Nasal Branch, which runs obliquely over the Optic Nerve, where it detaches a Filament or two to the Eye, then under the Levator Palpebrae et Oculi; and, getting between the Abductor Oculi and Troch- learis, passes to the inside of the Orbit. It sends a Branch, which, after entering the Foramen Orbitarium Internum Airterius, re-enters the Cavity of the Cranium, and gets upon the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid Bone. From thence it passes down through one of the ante- rior Holes of tin's Plate, and sends Twigs to the Mem- brane at the anterior part of the Nostril, while the Nerve, descending at the fore part of the Septum Na- rium, is dispersed upon the Point and Wing of the Nose. The continuation of the Nasal Branch, now called Infra-Trochlearis, passes forwards to the inner Corner of the Eye, and is distributed upon the Lacrymal Sac and parts adjacent: The Lacn/mal Branchy which runs along the Abduc- tor Oculi, sends Twigs to the Membranes and Fat near ft, likewise one or two through the Substance of the Cheek-bone, and one in particular to the Substance of the Lacrymal Gland, while another passes over the Gland, and vanishes in the neighbouring parts : A Branch to the Ophthalmic Ganglion, which is sometimes sent off from the Nasal, at oilier times from the Ophthalmic Trunk. The Ophthalmic Ganglion, termed also lenticular, from its shape, is formed by this Branch from the Fifth, , Qua £) f sy\j164 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. and by another from the Third Pair, and is commonly the smallest in the Body. It is of an oblong form, and compressed ; is situated at the outside of the Optic Nerve, a little before the Fo- ramen Opticnm, and is concealed in Fat. Sometimes, though rarely, the Filaments which form it take their origin entirely from the Third Pair. From the Ganglion, about a dozen of Filaments a- rise, termed Ciliary Nerves, collected into two portions, which creep along the opposite sides of the Optic Nerve, separated a little from each other, and running in com- pany with the Ciliary Arteries. Besides the Ciliary Nerves from the Ganglion, one, and sometimes two Filaments arise from the Ramus Na- salis, and pass along with the other Ciliary Branches. The Ciliary Nerves, running with scarcely any divi- sion, reach the back part of the Eye, and, a little be- fore the insertion of the Optic Nerve, enter the Sclerotic Coat, pass obliquely through it, and, about the middle of the Ball, appear upon the Surface of the Tunica Choroides. Upon this Coat they are flat, and run in a parallel di- rection, sending very few evident Branches, either to it or to each other, till they reach the Ciliary Circle, where they divide into numerous minute Filaments. Upon the Choroides, five or six are larger than the rest; the others are so minute as almost to escape the naked Eye. . , At the Ciliary Circle, each commonly divides intq two Branches, which are covered by the Cellular Sub- stance of the Circle ; and these, at the root of the Iris, arePart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 1(35 are subdivided into still smaller Branches, which run in a radiated and waving direction ; the Ciliary Vessels being interposed. Near the Pupil, they are united into Arches, from which very minute Twigs run to the interior margin of the Iris. The Second Branch, or Superior Maxillary Nerve, is larger than the Ophthalmic, and is princi- pally dispersed upon the Parts belonging to the Upper Jaw, from which it has its name. It goes through the Foramen Rotundum of the Sphe- noid Bone, and at its exit divides into numerous Branches, viz. The Spheno-Palatine, or Lateral Kasai Nerve, which sends a reflected Branch through the Foramen Ptery- goideum of the Sphenoid Bone, to join the Sympathetic. Nerve in the Canalis Caroticus, and a Branch which enters the Foramen Innominatum of the Pars Petrosa, to join the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Lateral Nasal Nerve goes afterwards into the Spheno-Palatine Hole, to be dispersed upon the under and back part of the Septum, and opposite side of the Nose, and upon the Membrane of the Sphenoidal Sinus and Eustachian Tube : One Branch, in particular, after passing along the Septum, goes through the Foramen Incisivum to the Roof of the Mouth. The Palato-Maxillary, or Palatine Branch, which descends through the Canal leading to the Foramen Palatinum Posterius, and running near the Alveoli with considerable Blood-vessels, sends Branches to the Velum Palati and Roof of the Mouth, and minute Filaments L 3 which166 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PatitVII. 'which penetrate into the Palate-Plate of the Superior Maxillary Bone: Small Branches, which pass round the Upper Jaw, and vanish in the Cheek: A Twig, which goes through the Hole in the Os Malm, along with a Brand) of the Ocular Artery to the Face: Small Filaments, which run down into the back part of the Superior Maxillary Bone, and supply the Sub- stance of the Upper Jaw, the Large Dentes Molares, and Membrane lining the Antrum Maxillare. The Second Part of the Fifth Pair, after sending off these different Branches, goes into the Canal under the Orbit, and forms the Infra-Orbitar Nerve, which, while in the Canal, gives off Filaments passing through mi- nute Conduits in the Upper Jaw, to the Antrum, to the Substance of the Bone, to the small Molares, Caninus, and Incisores *, and sometimes a Twig, the companion of a small Branch of the Internal Maxillary Artery, to the Membrane lining the Orbit. The Infra-Orbitar Nerve passes afterwards out of the Foramen Infra-Orbitarium, and divides into many large Branches, to be distributed upon the Cheek, Under Eye-Lid, Upper Lip, and side of the Nose. The Third Branch, or Inferior Maxillary Nerve, goes through the Foramen Ovale of the Sphe- noid Bone, and supplies the parts belonging to the Un- der Jawr, and the Muscles situated between it and the Os Hyoides, by the following Branches, viz. One or sometimes two Deep Temporal Branches, to the inner part of the Temporal Muscle: Branches167 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. Branches to the Masseter, Pterygoideus, and Bucci- nator : A Branch, which passes behind the Cervix of the Lower Jaw, and gives off Filaments to the fore part of the Ear, and afterwards accompanies the Temporal Ar- tery upon the side of the Head, where it terminates: A Branch to the Buccinator, and other parts of the Cheek. A Nerve of considerable size, termed Lingual or Grns- tatorius, which passes between the Pterygoidci, to the inner of which it gives some FiNpients. It then sends off, from its under side, a Ganglion which transmits Nerves to the Inferior Maxillary Gland. The Lingual Nerve also transmits several Branches to the Sublingual Gland, and to the Muscles of the Tongue. It terminates, at length, upon the upper and fore part of the Tongue, but more particularly upon its point, by many Branches which belong chiefly to the Papillae ; in consequence of which, this Branch is considered as the principal Nerve of the Organ of Taste. The Trunk of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve, having- parted with the Lingual Nerve, directs its course be- tween the Pterygoid Muscles to the Posterior Foramen of the Inferior Maxillary Canal. Before entering the Canal, it sends off a long and slender Branch, which is lodged at first in a Furrow of the Bone, and goes afterwards to be dispersed chiefly upon the Mylo-PIyoideus and Sublingual Gland. The Trunk of the Nerve is afterwards conducted along the Canal of the Jaw under the Alveoli, where I. 1. it168 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. it distributes Filaments to the different Teeth of the corresponding side, and to the Substance of the Bone } and coming out of the Canal by the Anterior Maxil- lary Foramen, somewhat diminished in size, it scat- ters its remaining Branches upon the Chin and Under Lip. The Sixth Pair, or Arducentes, arise from the beginning of the Medulla Oblongata, at the part com- mon to the Tuber Annulare and Corpora Pyramidalia, and are the smallest of the Cerebral Nerves, the Fourth Pair excepted. They perforate the Dura Mater at the inner side of the entrance of the Fifth Pair, and run forwards within the Cells of the Cavernous Sinus, but so surrounded by Cellular Substance, as to seen^to be protected from the Blood of that Receptacle. While in the Sinus Cavcrnosi, they are situated be- tween the Ophthalmic Nerves and Carotid Arteries, upon the Surface of the latter of which they send off two or three Filaments on each side of the Head, to assist in forming the Great Sympathetic Nerves. The Trunks of the Sixth Pair afterwards go through the Foramina Lacera, to be dispersed entirely upon the Abductores Oculorum. The Seventh Pair is composed, on each side, of two portions,—the Nervus Auditoriusy Nervus AcusticuSy or Portio Mollisand the Communicans 1'acieiy or For- tio Dura. The Portio Mollis is the softest of the Nerves, ex- cepting the Olfactory. It arises by transverse Medullary Striae from the ante- riorPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 169 rior part of the Fourth Ventricle, and is separated from its fellow of the opposite side only by the Crena of the Calamus Scriptorius. The Striae, turning round the Medulla Oblongata, apply themselves to the Tuber Annulare, from which they receive an addition of Substance, and then get to the side of the Portio Dura. The Portio Dura, sometimes also called Sympathe- ticus Minor, arises from that part of the Brain which is common to the Pons Varolii, Crura Cerebelli, and Medulla Oblongata; and, at its origin, is situated upon the inner side of the Portio Mollis. Between the origin of the Portio Dura and Trunk of the Portio Mollis, a small Nerve arises, termed by Wrisberg, Portio Meed a inter Portionem Duram et Portionem Mollem. It comes off by minute Fibrillae, which soon unite into a Trunk, from the posterior part of the Pons Va- rolii, or from the adjoining part of the Medulla Oblongata, and is an Accessory Nerve of the Portio Dura. The Portio Dura, considerably smaller than the Por- tio Mollis, gets into a Cul-de-Sac of the Meatus Audi- torius Internus, and is there lodged in a kind of half- sheath, formed by the Nerve, to which it is connected by fine Cellular Substance; the Dura Mater, which lines the Passage, giving here a general Covering to both Nerves. Portio Mollis.—The Portio Mollis is formed of two Fasciculi, nearly of equal size, one of which be- longsl'O COMPENDIUM OK ANATOMY. [Part VII. Jongs to tlie Coclilea, the other to the Vestible and Se- micircular Canals. Each of these Fasciculi passes by numberless Fibrillaj through the Cribriform Plate in the bottom of the Mea- tus Auditorius Internus, to the inner parts of the La- byrinth. The Fibrillm destined for the Cochlea go through the Holes in the sides of the Modiolus. Some pass between the Plates which form the Septa of the Gyri; others go through Holes between the Os- seous Plates of the Lamina Spiralis ; but by much the greatest number perforate the sides of the Modiolus, between the Septum of the Gyri and the Lamina Spi- ralis. The larger Fibrilloe run upon the Membrane covering the Lamina Spiralis ; while the smaller go from the Modiolus, between the Osseous Septa, and on the inner sides of the Gyri, to be dispersed upon the Membrane lining them. The remaining Fibrilloe perforate the Plate common to the Modiolus and Infundibulum, and vanish upon the last half-turn of the Lamina Spiralis and the Cupola ©f the Cochlea. Upon the Osseous part of the Lamina Spiralis, the Nerves have the common appearance; but upon the Membranous Portion, they are of the colour of the Re- tina of the Eye. In the whole of their course upon the Lamina Spi- ralis, they form a real Retina; though the reticulated structure becomes much less apparent upon the outer pert of this Lamina, and upon the continuation of the MembranePart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 171 Membrane lining the Gyri,—the Nerves seeming to ter- minate in a semi-pellucid Pulpy Membrane, resembling the Retina of the Eye. The Membrane upon which the Nerves are expand- ed, is but slightly connected to the Periosteum which lines the inner side of the Cochlea, and which, though thin, may be readily perceived, being painted with Blood-vessels;—nor does it differ from the Periosteum lining the Tympanum.—See Dr Monro’s Treatise on the Ear. The Fasciculus, which belongs to the Vestible and Semicircular Canals, forms at first a Plexus, then a Gan- gliform Enlargement, previous to its entrance into the Labyrinth. The Nerves which belong to the Vestible and Semi- circular Canals, pass through the Macula Cribrosa, or Holes subdivided into smaller Holes by Cribriform Plates in the bottom of the Meatus Auditorius Inter- pus. Of these Branches, small Filaments pass through the Macula Cribrosa in the Inferior Fossula of the Meatus Auditorius Internus, to the Alveus Communis or Sac- culus Vestibuli. A small Branch goes through another Cribriform Hole in the Inferior Fossula, to the Ampulla of the pos- terior Membranaceous Semicircular Canal. A Branch, larger than any of the former, enters the posterior Holes in the upper Fossula of the Meatus In- ternus, to be dispersed upon the Ampullae of the Supe- rior and Exterior Membranaceous Canals. The Nerves, after reaching the Sacculus Vpstibuli and the172 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paiit VII. the different Ampullae, are spread out upon them, as in the Cochlea, in the form of a Net-work •, the Fibres of which, by degrees becoming pellucid, disappear upon the beginning of the Membranaceous Canals. Portio Duha.—The Portio Dura, or Facial Nerve, separates from the Portio Mollis at the bottom of the Meatus Auditorius Interims, and, by the anterior Hole in ihe upper Fossulaat the bottom of the Meatus, enters die Aquceduclus FallopiI. After getting into the Canal, it receives the retrograde Nerve from the Second Branch of the Fifth Pair, which enters by the Foramen Innominatum on the fore-side of the Pars Petrosa. It sends Twigs through Foramina in the sides of the Aqueduct to the Mastoid Cells and to the Stapedius. A little before its exit from the Aqueduct in the Adult, but at the outer end of it in the Foetus, it gives off a re- flected Branch, termed Chorda Tympani, which passes between the long Processes of the Malleus and Incus, and over the Membrana Tympani. The Chorda Tympani goes afterwards in a Fissure at die outside of the Eustachian Tube, and soon after that Nerve has got out of the Cranium, joins the Lingual Branch of the Fifth Pair. In its passage, it supplies the Muscles of the Malleus, and the Membranes, &c. of the Tympanum. The Portio Dura afterwards passes out of the Aque- duct by the Foramen Stylo-Mastoideum, and is at first lodged deep, being situated in a Hollow behind the Pa- rotid Gland. Here it gives a small Occipital Branch, which sends TwigsITS Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. They Twigs to the back part of the Ear, and terminates in the Oblique Muscles of the Head. It sends a Branch to the Digastricus, and another to the Stylo-Hyoideus ; gives off a Filament which joins the Auricular Branch of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve, and goes to the fore part of the Ear ; and is connected by another small Filament at the under part of the Ear, with Branches of the Sympathetic Nerve which run along the External Carotid Artery. It also furnishes Filaments to the Parotid Gland, and then perforates it; dividing into large Branches, which join, separate, and rejoin, different times, on the side of the Face. This Plexus is expanded in such a manner as to con- stitute what has b?en called by some Pes Anserinus, and is divided into the following Sets of Branches, viz. The Temporal Branches, which ascend upon the side of the Head, to be distributed upon the Temple; some running over, others under the Branches of the Tem- poral Artery, and forming several joinings with the Frontal Branches of the first part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves : The Superior Facial Branches, which are dispersed upon the Orbicularis Oculi, and the parts in general about the outer Angle of the Eye, communicating in various places above and below the Orbit, with the first and second Branches of the Fifth Pair: The Middle Facial Branch, or the Great Facial Nerve, which runs across the Masseter, and divides into many Branches, to be dispersed upon the Cheek, and side of the Nose and Lips:m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [FartVI*. They are connected with the Branches of tire Stipe- rior Facial, and near the corner of the Mouth, with others of the second and third parts of the Fifth Pair. They have likewise some communications with deep Brandies of these two Nerves, which pass outwards be- tween the Massetcr and Buccinator : The Inferior Facial Branches, which proceed along the side ot the Under Jaw, to be dispersed upon the parts covering it, and upon the Under Lip ; and connect themselves with some of the Middle Facial Branches, and with others belonging to the third part of the Fifth Pair: The Descending, or Subculancous Cervical Branchesy some of which run forwards under the Lower Jaw, and others downwards, near the External Jugular Vein, to the Superficial Muscles, and to the Integuments at the side and upper part of the Neck, where they form communications with the Inferior Facial Branches, and with different Branches of the Upper Spinal Cervical Nerves. The Eighth Pair arises from the Medulla Oblon- gata, at the sides of the Bases of the Corpora Olivaria, and consist, in each side, of the Nervus Glosso-Pha- ryngeus and Pars Vaga. The Gi.osso-Pharyngeus is the smaller of the two, being only a little larger than one of the Nerves of the Fourth Pair. The Pars Vaga comes ofF immediately under the former, and is composed of several separated Fasciculi, which are soon collected into a single Cord. The two Nerves, passing outwards, go through the Base 'Ai J Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. 1** £ Base of the Cranium, immediately before the end of the Lateral Sinus, by the Hole common to the Occipi- tal and Temporal Bone, and are separated from each other and from the Sinus by small Processes of the Dura Mater. The Glosso-PJiajyngeus, termed also Lingualis Late- ralis, from its exit upon the Cranium, sends a Branch backwards, which joins the Digastric Branch of the Portio Dura. A little lower, it gives off Branches, which, with others from tire Pharyngeal Branch of the Eighth Pair, and from the Great Sympathetic Nerve, form a Plexus which embraces the Internal Carotid Artery, and after- wards sends Branches along the Caroticus Communis to the Heart. I Still lower, it gives Branches which communicate with others belonging to the Pharyngeal Nerve, and go to the upper part of the Pharynx, and to the Stylo- Pharyngeus. The Glosso-Pharyngeus, after sending a Twig or two to the Tonsil, to the upper part of the Pharynx, and Membrane of the Epiglottis, divides into many Branches, which run partly to the Margin, and partly to the middle of the root of the Tongue, supplying, especially, the Papillce Majores, and the parts in their neighbourhood. The Pars Vaga, or Pneumo-Gastric JServe, upon emerging from the Cranium, frequently becomes a little increased in diameter for about an inch downwards, forming w hat some Authors have termed its Gangliform Enlargement. It descends in the Neck at the outer and back part of the176 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part Vlf. the Common Carotid Artery, to which it is closely united, being included along with it in the same com- mon Sheath of Cellular Substance. ' At the upper part of the Neck, it transmits a Branch, called Pharyngeus, to the Pharynx ; and immediately afterwards, a larger one, termed Laryngeus Superior, to the Larynx; and near the top of the Thorax, it sends a Filament, and sometimes two, to the Heart. The Pharyngeus, chiefly formed by the Pars Vaga, but partly also by a Branch from the Accessorius, is afterwards joined by Branches from the Glosso-Pharyn- geus, and descends obliquely over the Internal Carotid Artery. Near the origin of this Artery, it sends Filaments which join others from the upper part of the Great Sym- pathetic, and creep along the Common Carotid. Upon the middle ot the Pharynx, it expands into a Gangliform Plexus, from which many small Branches are sent out, to be distributed upon the three Constric- tors of the corresponding side of the Pharynx ; one or two Filaments uniting above with the Glosso-Pharyn- geus, and others below with the Laryngeus Superior. The Laryngeus Superior descends obliquely forwards between the Carotid Arteries and Pharynx ; and, be- hind the origin of the Carotids, is divided into a large Internal or Superior, and a small External or Inferior Branch. The Internal Branch passes forwards between the Os Hyoides and Superior Cornu of the Thyroid Cartilage. It divides into numerous Branches, some of which go to the Arytenoid Gland, and to the Arytenoideus Obli- quusi'AHT VII.] OF THE NERVES. .177 quus ct Transversus, and others to the Glandular Mem- brane of the Epiglottis ; while the greater number and the largest of these Branches are dispersed upon the Glandular Membrane lining the upper portion of the Larynx and parts adjacent. The External Branch,—which Scarpa considers as more properly termed Pharyngo-Laryngeus,—is origi- nally composed of a Branch from the Internal Laryn- geal, and another from the Great Sympathetic; and is connected by a Filament to the Pharyngeal, and some- times also by one to the Internal Laryngeal Nerve. It imparts Twigs to the Middle and Lower Constric- tors of the Pharynx, and afterwards terminates in the Thyroid Gland and inner part of the Larynx. The Filament, sent from the Pars Vaga at the bottom of the Neck, joins the Great Cardiac Branch of the Sympathetic Nerve in the upper part of the Thorax, to be dispersed upon the Heart. The Ninth Pair,—frequently termed Lingualcs, and sometimes also Linguales Medii,—arise from the under and lateral parts of the Corpora Pyramidalia, on the fore side of the Medulla Oblongata, by numerous Fila- ments which are collected into Fasciculi. They pass out at the Superior Condyloid Foramina of the Occipital Bone, after which they adhere, for some way, to the Eighth Fair, by Cellular Substance. A little below the Cranium, each of the Trunks of this Pair of Nerves is conjoined by a cross Branch with the Sub-occipital Nerve, or with an Arch which con- nects that Nerve and the First Cervical together. The Trunk then descends between the Internal Jugu- Vol. HI. M lar 1m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. Jar Vein and Infernal Carotid Artery, and at the root of the Occipital Artery crosses over both Carotids to its place of destination. Where it begins to cross over the Carotids, it sends down a Branch of considerable size, termed Descendens Noni. The Descendens Noni passes down a certain length along with the common Carotid Artery, and, in its course, furnishes Branches to the upper ends of the Omo-Hyoideus and Sterno-Thyroideus; after which it unites with Branches from the First and Second, and with small Filaments from the Second and Third Cer- vical Nerves, forming an Arch, from which long and slender Twigs go to the under portions of the Sterno- Thyroideus, and to the Omo-Hyoideus and Sterno- Hyoideus. The Ninth Nerve passes afterwards behind the Facial and Temporal Veins, or the Trunk formed by these, and over the root of the Facial Artery,—sending a Twig to the Hyo-Thyroideus. Upon the Hyo-Glossus, the Trunk of the Nerve is spread into many Branches, which go to the middle of the Tongue, and terminate chiefly in its Fleshy parts y a Twig extending as far as the Genio-Hyoideus, and two, or sometimes only one Filament, anastomosing with the Lingual Branch of the Fifth Pair. The Grkat Sympathetic Nerve,—obtaining its name from its numerous connections with most of the other Nerves of the Body,—is cither formed originally by the reflected Branch from the second of the Fifth Pair, and by one or two, and sometimes three small Filaments,1.19 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. Filaments, sent down from the Sixth Pair while in the Cavernous Sinus ; or, according to the opinion of some Authors, the Sympathetic sends off these small Nerves to join the Fifth and Sixth Pairs. Upon the Surface of the Internal Carotid Artery,- while in the Carotic Canal, the Branches of the Fifth and Sixth Nerves and Great Sympathetic making this connection, are pulpy and tender, and form a Plexus which surrounds the Carotid, from which the Trunk of the Sympathetic is most frequently considered as being sent out. After escaping from the Carotic Canal, the Trunk, which is here of small size, is closely connected, for a short space, with the Trunks of the Eighth and Ninth Nerves; and, separating from these, it expands into a large Ganglion, termed Ganglion Cervicale Superius, of a long oval form, and situated opposite to the Second Cervical Vertebra. From this Ganglion, the Nerve comes out very little increased in size, and descends on the Anterior Verte- bral Muscles of the Neck, behind, and to the inner side of, the Eighth Pair of Nerves, with which, and with the Carotid Artery, it is connected by a Sheath of Cellular Substance. At the under part of the Neck, and nearly where the Inferior Laryngeal Artery turns towards the Larynx, the Sympathetic forms another Ganglion, termed bv some Authors Cervicale Medium, and by others Cervicale Iiiferiiis. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion is somewhat similar INI 2 in180 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII, in shape and size to the Superior ; though it varies con- siderably in these respects in different Subjects. From this Ganglion principal Branches are sentdown, one of which, larger than the rest, and considered as the continuation of the Trunk, turns outwards between the Inferior Laryngeal and V ertebral Arteries to an- other Ganglion. This third Ganglion is placed at the head of the First Bib, and is termed by some Authors Ganglion Cervicale Inferius, vel Imum, while others consider it as the first of the Thoracic Ganglia. The Cervical part of the Great Sympathetic is con- nected with other Nerves, and dispersed upon different parts, by the following Branches, viz. One or two short but thick Branches, which connect the beginning of the Superior Ganglion with the root of the Sub-occipital Nerve: One or two Pulpy Nerves, which run forwards be- hind the Internal Carotid Artery, and divide into many others. These, together with the Filaments from the Glosso-Pharyngeus, form a Plexus which sends Branches to the Gangliform Expansion of the Pharyngcus, and afterwards embraces the External Carotid Artery, send- ing Plexuses of Filaments along its different Branches : One or two other soft Nerves, going behind the In- ternal Carotid, and with a Branch of the Laryngeus interims of the Eighth Pair, forming the Laryngeus Internus: Thick shori Roots connecting the First, or Conjuga- tion of the First and Second Ccrvicals, with the Supe- rior Ganglion of the Sympathetic Nerve. FromPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. From the Superior Ganglion, also, are sent off small Branches, which, uniting with Filaments from the La- ryngeus Superior, form the Ramus Cardiacus Supremus, vel Supetfcialis Cor dis. The Superficial Cardiac Nerve of the Sympathetic, in the Right Side, divides into Branches at the bottom of the Neck, which send a Filament or two along the In- ferior Laryngeal Artery to the Thyroid Gland, and af- terwards unite with the Superficial Cardiac Nerve of the Eighth Pair before the Subclavian Artery, and with the Laryngeal Nerve behind it.—In the Left Side, it termi- nates in the Cardiac Plexus of Nerves. From the Second, Third, and Fourth Cervical ^Nerves, an equal number of Cords descend behind the Scaleni and Rectus Major, to the middle Ganglion of the Great Sympathetic. From the opposite side of the Ganglion, Brandies are sent down, which join and form the Nervus Mag- nus Profundus : others are fixed to the Superficial Car- diac, and to the Recurrent of the Eighth Pair. The rest go partly over and partly behind the Subclavian Artery, to the Inferior Cervical, and to the first Tho- racic Ganglion. Nervi Accessorii ad Par Octavum.—The Acces- sory Nerves arise by small Filaments from the Lateral Parts of the Medulla Oblongata and upper portion of the Spinal Marrow. The Filaments from the Spinal Marrow come off be- tween the Anterior and Posterior Bundles of the Cer- vical Nerves,—the first of them frequently extending as far as the space between the Sixth and Seventh Pairs. M 3 Thp182 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIL The different Filaments unite by degrees into then- respective Trunks, and often have connections while within the Dura Mater with one or two of the Bundles of the uppermost Spinal Nerves. The Trunk of the Nerve passes out, in each side of the Cranium, in company with the Nerve of the Eighth Pair; but forms no part of that Nerve, being included in its own peculiar Sheath received from the Dura Mater. After perforating the Cranium, it separates from the Eighth, and descends obliquely outwards through the Sterno-Mastoidcus to the Shoulder. At its exit, it sends off a Branch, termed by some Ramus Minor, (the Trunk itself being then called Ra- mus Major), which assists in forming the Pharyngeal Nerve *, and gives another, smaller than the former, to be connected to the Pars Vaga of the Eighth Pair. At the fore part of the Sterno-Mastoideus, it is joined by an Arch to the Sub-occipital, and frequently by an- other to the First Cervical Nerve. In its passage through the Sterno-Mastoideus, it sends several Branches to Substance of .that Muscle, and terminates at length in the Trapezius. SPINALPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 1SS SPINAL MARROW, AND ORIGIN OF THE SPINAL NERVES. The Spinal, or Vertebral Marrow, is the conti- nuation of the Medulla Oblongata, and obtains its name from being contained in the Osseous Canal of the Spine. It is invested by the same Membranes which cover the Brain, and has an additional partial Involucrum from the Ligamentous Membrane which lines the Bodies of the Vertebras, and which has been already taken no- tice of in the description of the Ligaments. On the inner side of the Ligamentous Lining, the Dura Mater is situated, which passes out of the Cra- nium by the Foramen Magnum Occipitis, and forms a Cylindrical Sheath, which loosely envelopes the Spinal Marrow, and extends as far as the Os Sacrum. It is more elastic than the Dura Mater of the Brain, and thereby admits more readily of the different mo- tions of the Spine. At its egress from the Cranium, it is intimately con- nected to the beginning of the above-mentioned com- mon Ligamentous Lining, and is also united with the Pericranium at the edge of the Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. M 4 * Below. 8* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVJlL Below the First Vertebra of the Neck, this intimate connection between the Dura Mater and inner Liga- ment of the Vertebrae is discontinued ; a Cellular, Fatty, and Slimy Substance, which surrounds the Dura Mater throughout the rest of the Canal, being interposed be- tween that Membrane and the Ligament. The Dura Mater is only in contact with the Tunica Araehnoidea, and this also only in contact with the Pia Mater, and lying so loosely over it as to be separated from it with facility through the whole length of the Spine. 1’he Spinal Marrow, like the Brain, consists of a Cor- tical and Medullary Substance, but differs in this re- spect, that the Cincritious Matter is placed within the other. Upon the Surface of the Spinal Marrow, while lying in its natural situation, many Transverse Wrinkles or Folds are observed, which allow it to be extended in the motions of the Vertebrae. It is a little flattened on its anterior and posterior sur- faces, and is larger near the under part of the Neck, and at the top of the Loins, where the great Nerves of the Extremities are sent offj than in the other parts of the Spine. It is divided into two lateral Portions or Cords, which are separated from each other externally by an anterior and posterior Fissure continued from the Medulla Ob- longata j and each of the lateral Portions is in some measure subdivided by a superficial Furrow into a large Anterior and small posterior Cord, ThePart VII.] OF THE NERVES. MS The lateral Portions are firmly united together by fine Cellular Substance, but, without lacerating either, may be separated from each other, before as well as be- hind, to near their middle, where they are connected by a Layer of Cineritious Matter, which passes from the one Cord into the othfer. When the Medulla Spinalis is divided transversely, the Cineritious Substance is observed to have a'Cruci- form appearance, corresponding with the Cords of which it is composed. The Body of the Spinal Marrow descends in the Child to the Twelfth Dorsal, and in the Adult as far as fhe second Lumbar Vertebra, and terminates there by a Conical point, which is concealed by Fasciculi of Nerves. Each of the lateral Portions of the Spinal Marrow sends off from its anterior and posterior parts, fiat Fas- ciculi of Nervous Filaments, which are placed opposite their fellows on the other side. Several of the Fasciculi of the Cervical Nerves detach Filaments to those immediately above or below them ; and the same thing is occasionally observed of some of the Bundles of Dorsal Nerves. The anterior and posterior Fasciculi perforate the Dura Mater, from the inner part of which each Fasci- culus is furnished with a proper Sheath, which is conti- nued along it, and the Sheaths are connected by Cellular Substance only, till they get between the Vertebrae. Between the anterior and posterior Fasciculi of Spinal Nerves, and between the Tunica Arachnoidea and Pia Mater, a small Ligamentous Cord, termed Ligamcntum. Denticulatum,1S6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVJL Denticulatum, is situated, which is attached to the Dura Mater, where that Membrane comes out from the Cra- nium, and accompanies the Spinal Marrow to its infe- rior extremity. It adheres by Cellular Substance to the Pia Mater, and sends off from its opposite sides slender Cords, in the form of Denticuli, which carry the Tunica Arach- noidea along with them, and, running more or less in a transverse direction, are fixed, each by minute Fibres, to the Dura Mater, in the interstices of the Fasciculi. The Ligamenta Denticulata or tlie right and left sides incorporate with the Pia Mater at the inferior extremity or Conical Point of the Spinal Marrow, and form a Ligamentous Filament which perforates the under end of the Dura Mater, and is fixed by small Fibres to the Membranes covering the Os Coccygis, in the manner the Denticuli are fixed to the Dura Mater. It is termed by some Authors Ligamcntum Pice Matrits, and was considered by the Ancients as the Fortieth Pair of Nerves. It assists in preventing the Spinal Marrow and the tender Origin of the Nerves from being overstretched. Having got between the Vertebrae, each of the pos- terior Bundles forms a Ganglion, from the opposite end of which a Nerve comes out, and is immediately joined by the anterior Bundle, thus constituting the beginnings of the Trunks of the Spinal Nerves. The Nervous Cords sent out from the Spinal Mar- row, after receiving their Coverings from the Dura Ma- ter, become considerably larger than the Fasciculi which formPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 1S7 I form them ; as has been already observed in the general description of the Nerves. As soon as the Spinal Nerves emerge from between ithe Vertebrae, each sends Branches backwards to the Muscles near the Spine, and others forwards, to join ithe Great Sympathetic Nerve ; while the Trunk is con- ; tinued outwards to its place of destination. The Spinal Nerves are distinguished-on each side by : numbers, according to the Bones under which they ! pass : Thirty Pairs are most commonly enumerated ;— i one going under the Head, and termed Sub-occipital; —seven passing under the Cervical,—twelve under the Dorsal,—five under the Lumbar Vertebrae,—and five under the pieces which originally composed the Os Sa- crum. The Fasciculi which form the Cervical Nerves are short, running nearly in a straight direction from their origin to the Intervertebral Holes. Those which form the Dorsal Nerves are longer than the former, and run more obliquely downwards ; and those which form the Lumbar and Sacral Nerves are very long, and run still more obliquely downwards, till at length the undermost of them become nearly longitudinal. The size of the Fasciculi corresponds with that of the Nerves which they go to form.—The Fasciculi of the four lowest Cervical and first Dorsal are large and broad, giving origin to the Great Nerves which supply the Su- perior Extremity.—Those of the Back are much more slender, while the Fasciculi of the Loins and the three upper Sacral ones are of great size, to form the very targe Nerves which run to the Lower Extremity. The f188 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIE The Lumbar and Sacral Fasciculi, while included in the Dura Mater, lorm a Bundle of Cords, termed Cau- da Equina, from the resemblance it has to the tail of a Horse; especially when the Fmrjllae of the Nerves are unravelled by separating them from each other. The Fasciculi perforate the Dura Muter, nearly op- posite to the parts where they pass through the Verte- brae,—of course the Nerves of the inferior parts of the Spinal Marrow emerge from the Spine, considerably lower than the different origins. Blood-Vessels of the Sfinal Marrow.—The Arteries of the Spinal Marrow consist of Anterior and Posterior Spinal Arteries, and of many additional Branches communicating with others from the adjacent Vessels. The Anterior Spijial Arteries arise, one on each side, from the Vertebrals, near where these join to form the Basilar Artery. Upon the beginning of the Spinal Marrow, they ge- nerally unite into a common Trunk, which descends in that depression on the Anterior Surface of the Medulla, whereby it is distinguished into two Lateral Portions, and in this course is covered by the Tunica Arachnoi- dea. The Artery continues nearly of the same size throughout, in consequence of additions it receives from the neighbouring Arteries. In the Neck it communicates with the V ertebral, Thyroid, and Cervical Arteries, by Branches which pass through the same Holes with the Nerves. In the Back, it receives Branches from the Intercos- tal,V / Paiit VII.] OF THE NERVES. 189 i tal, and in the Loins from the Lumbar Arteries; all of which go through the Intervertebral Holes. It terminates at the under end of the Spinal Marrow; the Cauda Equina being supplied by Branches from the Internal Iliac Artery, which enter through the anterior and posterior Holes of the Os Sacrum. The Posterior Spinal Arteries arise commonly from the Inferior Arteries of the Cerebellum, and frequently from the Trunks of the Vertebral Arteries within the Cranium. They are equal in length to the former Artery, but. considerably inferior to it in size, and continue separate through the whole of their course. They have constantly a serpentine appearance, and form frequent Inosculations with each other, and with Arteries, the Bx-anches of which communicate with the Anterior Spinal Artery. The Arteries of the Spinal Marrow are divided into minute Branches, which are dispersed upon its Sub- stance, upon the Membranes which inclose it, and also upon the Substance of the Vertebrae and Origins of the Nerves. The Veins of the Spinal Marrow accompany their Arteries, and afterwards terminate in the Sinus Venosi of the Spine. The Sinus Venosi consist of one on each side, which runs exterior to the Dura Mater ; being chiefly lodged in the Ligamentous Membrane which lines the fore and lateral parts of the Vertebral Canal. They extend from the Foramen Magnum of the Oc- cipital Bone to the under end of the Os Sacrum, and are190 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. arc so irregular on their Surface, and so much divided and subdivided within by the openings of Veins, as in many parts to have the appearance of Cells. At. the different Vertebra^, they are joined by cross Branches, which have a Semilunar form, like the Sur- face of the Bones which surround them. They communicate at their Superior Extremity with the Occipital and Lateral Sinuses, and send numberless Branches outwards, which open into the Veins, the Ar- teries of which anastomose with those of the Spinal Marrow. NERVES or THE NECK AND SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Nervus Accessorius.—The Accessory Nerve belongs in some respect to this Class of Nerves; but having part of its origin within the Head, and from its passing out with one of the Cerebral Nerves, it has been al- ready described along with these. Sur-Occipital Nerves.—These were formerly called Tenth Pair of the Heady and by many at present are termed First of the NecJc. They arise, on each side, from the beginning of the Spinal I19-! Part VIL] OF THE NERVES. Spinal Marrow, by an anterior and posterior Fascicu- lus, like the rest of the Spinal Nerves ; and, like these also, they have their Ganglia where they pass out be- tween the Bones. They perforate the Dura Mater immediately under the entrance of the Vertebral Arteries, and go forwards under them, and over the Transverse Processes of the Atlas. They afterwards appear in the fore part of the Neck, and are each connected above by an Arch to the root of the Ninth Pair, and below by a similar Arch to the first Cervical Nerve. Anteriorly, each is joined by one or two short Branches to the upper Ganglion of the Great Sympa- thetic Nerve. They afterwards divide into Branches, which are dis- tributed upon the Recti et Obliqui Capitis, and upon some of the deep Extensors of the Head. The First Cervical Nerve comes out, on each side, between the Atlas and Vertebra Dentata, and imme- diately splits into two parts ; the first of which passes forwards under the Transverse Process of the Atlas, and is joined by an Arch with the Nervus Accessorius, and by Branches with the Ninth Pair : It is also connected by a soft Gangliform Pellucid Root with the upper Gan- glion of the Sympathetic Nerve, sending a Branch, downwards, to be fixed to the second Cervical Nerve, and also small Branches to the Muscles connected with the fore part of the Vertebrae. 1 he other, which is the principal part, goes back- wards, and, after sending Branches to the Extensors of the192 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. the Head and Neck, perforates these, and forms the Proper Occipital Nerve. The Occipital Nerve ascends upon the Head with the Artery of that name, and terminates upon the Muscles and Integuments on the upper and back part of the Head ; some of its Filaments anastomosing with others belonging to the First Branch of the Fifth, and Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Second Cervical Nerve, after escaping from between the Bones, gives off a Branch, which perforates the Muscles connected to the fore and lateral parts of the Vertebra?, and joins the middle Ganglion of the Sympathetic Nerve. It sends another Branch of considerable size down- wards to the Trunk of the Third Pair. It sends several Branches to the Sterno-Mastoideus, behind which it is connected by an Arch, and still far- ther out by a Filament, with the Nervus Accessorius. It is afterwards divided into several Branches ; one of which passes downwards some way upon the Exter- nal Jugular Vein, and, together with a Branch from the First Cervical, forms an Arch with the Descendens of the Ninth Pair. It gives ofF a small Root, which is united with others in the formation of the Diaphragmatic Nerve. A large Branch comes out from it behind the Sterno- Mastoideus, which, turning over this Muscle, sends off the following Nerves, viz. The Inferior Cutaneous Nerve of the Neele, which passes forwards to the parts under the Lower Jaw: ThePart VIE] OF THE NERVES. 19 J The Middle Cutaneous Nerve, which runs towards the Angle of the Jaw : The Great Posterior Awicidar Nerve, which furnishes an anterior Branch to the under part of the Ear, and a posterior Branch dividing into many others which go to the back part of the Ear and Temple* The Cutaneous and Auricular Nerves are dispersed upon the Platysma Myoidcs, Integuments of the side of the Neck and Head, the Parotid Gland, and External Ear; and have several Communications with the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The remainder of the Second Cervical is distributed t upon the Levator Scapulae, and the Extensors of the Neck and Head. The Third Cervical Nerve, after emerging from between the Vertebrae, sends down a Branch to the Trunk of the Fourth Cervical, and another Branch, which forms the principal root of the Diaphragmatic Nerve. A Third Branch perforates the Muscles on the side of the Vertebrae, and joins the middle Ganglion of the Sympathetic Nerve. A Small Filament connects the Third Cervical with the Descendens of the Ninth Pair. The Nerve is afterwards divided into External and Internal Branches. The External Branches form Anastomoses with the Nervus Accessorius, near the upper part of the Scapula while the Internal, after furnishing Twigs to the Jugu- lar Glands, are dispersed by several large Branches upon Vol. III. N the /m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Fart VIE the Muscles and Integuments at the under part of the Neck, and upper part of the Shoulder. The Fourth Cervical sends a Branch behind the Muscles situated on the fore and lateral parts of the Cervical Vertebrae, to the middle Ganglion of the Sym- pathetic Nerve. It is connected by one, and sometimes by two Fila- ments, to the Diaphragmatic Nerve. It gives Twigs to the Jugular Glands and Deep Mus- cles of the Neck, and, at the outer edge of the anterior Scalenus, joins the Fifth Cervical Nerve. The Fifth Cervical is united with the Fourth into a common Trunk, which, after running a little farther out, joins the Sixth Cervical Nerve. The Sixth Cervical joins the Seventh behind the Clavicle; and to the Seventh, the First Dorsal Nerve is ^dded over the First Rib. The Four Inferior Cervicals and First Dorsal Nerves are of great size,—especially the three intermediate Nerves. A They pass out between the Scalenus Anticus and Me- dius, and afterwards run between the Subclavius and First Rib, at the outer side of the Subclavian Artery, to the Axilla. In the Axilla they separate, unite, and separate again, forming an irregular Plexus, termed Axillary or Bra- chial, which surrounds the Axillary Artery. The Axillary Plexus sends Branches to the Subscapu- laris, Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi, and furnishes the External Thoracic Nerves which accompany the Blood-pAlrr VII.j OF THE NERVES, Blood-vessels of that name to the Pectoralis and Integu- ments. The Plexus afterwards divides into Nerves, most of which are of great size, to supply the Superior Extre- mity.—They are as follow : The Scapularis, which commonly arises from the combination of the Fourth and Fifth Pairs, and, ex- tending outwards, runs through the Semilunar Arch in the upper edge of the Scapula, afterwards descending between the Root of the Spine and Head of that Bone. It furnishes Branches to the Supra-Spinatus, and is ultimately spent upon the Infra-Spinatus: The Auticularis, which arises, like the former Nerve, from the Trunk common to the Fourth and Fifth Cervicals. It sinks deep in the Axilla, and getting between the under edge of the Subscapularis, and insertions of the Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi, it follows the course of the Posterior Circumflex Artery, round the Body of the Os Humeri, immediately below the Articulation. It sends Branches to the Teres Minor, and some Twigs to the Ligament of the Joint; but is chiefly dis- persed upon the Deltoides : The Nervus Cutaneus, which arises from the Trunk common to the last Cervical and first Dorsal Nerve; but is principally formed by Fibrillae from the latter. It runs down at the inner and fore part of the Arm, near the Radial Nerve. It sometimes gives a small Branch to the upper part of the Coraco-Brachialis and Biceps $ and, farther N 2 down,196 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. down, it gives others to the Integuments and Coats of the Blood-vessels. About the middle of the Arm, it splits into two Branches,—an Internal and External. The Internal Branch, which is rather the smaller of the two, passes before the Basilic Vein to the inner part of the Elbow, where it divides into Branches ; two of which, larger than the rest, turn obliquely over the Heads of the Flexors of the Hand, to be dispersed upon the inner and back part of the Fore Arm. The External Branch divides into several others, behind the Median Basilic Vein, which descend on the Anterior and Ulnar side of the Fore Arm, as far as the Wrist. They pass partly over and partly under the Subcuta- neous Vessels ; furnishing Twigs to these, and vanish- ing in the Integuments. Besides the Nervus Cutaneus, there is another, term- ed Cutancns Minor Interims of Wrjsberg, which, like the rest of the Nerves of the Superior Extremity, takes its origin from the Axillary Plexus ; but is more parti- cularly connected with the Ulnar Nerve. It is consider- ably smaller than the Nervus Cutaneus. It soon separates from the Ulnar, running afterward* between it and the inner side of the Arm. A little below the Axilla, it splits into two Branches: The smaller, turning to the posterior part of the Arm, is divided into Filaments, which are chiefly dispersed upon the Triceps and its Integuments: The larger Branch descends at the inner edge of the Triceps,1-97 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. Triceps, and vanishes upon the under end of that Mus- cle and Skin of the Elbow: The Musculo-Cutaneus, called also Pciforans Ca- serii, which consists of Fibrilloe from almost all the Nerves entering the Plexus. The Cord formed by these perforates, obliquely, the upper part of the Coraco-Brachialis, to which it gives Branches. It afterwards passes between the Biceps and Brachialis Internus, furnishing Branches to both. At the Elbow, it gets to the outside of the Tendon of the Biceps, and runs behind the Median Cephalic Vein. From thence it descends in the Fore Arm, between the Supinator Longus and Integuments; furnishing Branches to the latter, as far as the Root of the Thumb and back of the Hand : The Spiral, or Spiral-Muscular Nerve, which is apparently formed by all the Nerves entering into the Axillary Plexus, and when the Sheaths of the Nerves are slit open, is found to be composed of Fibriliae from each of the Trunks, excepting from that of the First Dorsal. It is rather larger than any other Nerve of the Supe- rior Extremity, and is distinguished by its Spiral di- rection. It is at first situated between the Axillary Artery and the Ulnar Nerve, and passes obliquely downwards be- tween two of the Heads of the Triceps Extensor Cubit), and afterwards behind the Os Humeri to the outside of the Elbow. N3 Fromi*8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paut-VII. From thence it proceeds among the Muscles of the Radial side of the Fore Arm, as far as the Hand. While passing behind the Os Humeri, it gives several Branches of considerable size to the different Heads of the Triceps; some of them accompanying the Branches of the Arteria Spiralis, and terminating on the Heads of the Extensors of the Hand. Immediately behind the Body of the Os Humeri, it transmits a Subcutaneous Branch, which is distributed upon the Muscles and Integuments on the posterior part of the Fore Arm, anastomosing at last with the Nerves on the back part of the Hand. The Trunk of the Nerve, having arrived at the Elbow, is lodged in a Fissure between the Brachialis Internus and Radial Extensors of the Carpus, and there gives off other Brandies to the Extensors and to the Supinators of the Hand. At the Head of the Radius, the Trunk of the Nerve divides into two nearly equal Branches,—the Superficialis and Profundus. The Superficialis, continued almost straight from the Trunk, immediately transmits a Branch to the Exten- sores Radiales and Supinator Longus, and then de- scends at the inner edge of this Muscle along with the Radial Artery. A little below the middle of the Radius, it crosses between the Tendons of the (Supinator and Extensores Radiales, and is divided into a Volar and Dorsal Branch. The Volar Branch, after sending Tv.igs to the Annu- larPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. lar Ligament, is distributed to the Muscles and Integu- ments of the'Thumb. The Dorsal Branch is again subdivided into numerous other Branches, some of which goto the Muscles in the interval of the Metacarpal Bones of the Thumb and Fore Finger, a few Filaments being distributed to the Annular Ligament; while principal Branches run, one along each side of the Fore and Mid Finger, and like- wise along the Radial side of the Ring Finger. The Ramus Profundus, after sending several Branches to the Extensores Radial.es and Supinator Brevis, per- forates the latter, and gets to the back part of the Fore Arm. After quitting the Supinator, it descends under the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis and Extensor Digi- torum to the back of the Hand. In this course, it sends Branches to the different Ex- tensors of the Thumb and Fingers, and at length dege- nerates into a slender Brand), which, at the Wrist, ad- heres closely to the Annular Ligament, where it has a Gangliform appearance, and is dispersed, partly upon this Ligament-, and partly on the Membranes and Muscles on the back part of the Metacarpus: The Median or Radial Nerve, which comes from the middle and lower part of the Plexus, is formed by Fasciculi from all the Nerves which enter the Plexus, and is nearly of a similar size with the Spiral Nerve. It descends in the Arm, along the anterior Surface of the Humeral Artery, to which, and to the Deep Veins, it adheres closely by Cellular Substance. In this course, it does not give off any considerable N Branches;200 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIE Branches:—Twigs, however, are sent from it to the Coats of the adjacent Vessels. At the bending of the Elbow, it slips over the Ten- don of the Brachialis Interims, and perforates the back part of the Pronator Teres. It afterwards descends between the Flexor Radialis and Musculus Sublimis, and goes in the middle of the interval of the Radial and Ulnar Artery in its way to the Hand. When it approaches the Fore Arm, it transmits Branches to the Pronator Teres and Integuments near that Muscle. In the Flexure of the Arm, it furnishes Branches to the Pronator, Flexor Radialis, and Flexor Sublimis, and an Interosseous Branch, which, in some Subjects, receives an addition from the Spiral Nerve. '1 he Interosseous Nerve gives Branches to the Flexor Longus Pollicis, and to the Flexor Profundus Digito- rum, descends upon the Interosseous Ligament with the Vessels of that name, and terminates in the Prona- tor Quadratus. Near the Hand, it sends a Branch, dividing into others which supply the Muscles and integuments form- ing the Ball of the Thumb. The Trunk of the Nerve, having given Branches to the Fore Arm, passes under the Annular Ligament of the Wrist, where it divides into Branches which are si- tuated behind the Aponeurosis Palmaris and Superficial Arch of the Arteries. The principal Branches in the Palm come off in three divisions, from which seven Nerves of considerable size arePart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 2Gi are distributed to the Thumb and Fingers. Of these, two go to the Thumb, and one to the Radial side of : the Fore Finger; the rest come off from two forked Trunks, near the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones, and supply the adjacent sides of the Fore and Middle, and of the Middle and Ring Fingers. These Branches send Twigs through the Aponeurosis ;to the Integuments of the Palm, and others to the Mus- culi Lumbricales ; after which they accompany the Ar- tteries sent out from the Superficial Palmar Arch, be- * stowing Twigs to the adjacent parts of the Fingers, at ■the points of which they terminate, by numerous Fibres : The Ulnar Nerve, which, like the former, is of ;great size, comes off chiefly from the last Cervical and .First Dorsal Nerve. It extends along the inside of the Triceps, frequently jperforating some of its Fleshy Fibres, and, near the Elbow, slants a little backwards, to get into a Groove lbetween the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri and Ole- cranon of the Ulna. From thence it passes to the Fore Arm, where, after Jperforating the Heads of the Flexor Muscles, it joins tthe Ulnar Artery a little below its origin, and accom- panies that Vessel,—running behind it all the way to the IHand. Under the Axilla, it sometimes receives a Branch from the Spiral Nerve; and from this connection, or ifrom the Trunk of the Ulnar Nerve itself, a Subcuta- meous Branch is sent off, which runs between the Tri- iceps anti Integuments ; furnishing Branches to the lat- ter for a considerable way along the Fore Arm. Near£02 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. Near the under end of the Os Humeri, a Twitr or two commonly go to the inner end of the Triceps. Under the bending of the Elbow, a Branch is given out to be dispersed upon the Belly of the Flexor Ulnaris. Immediately below the former, another Branch is produced, which is distributed upon the Flexor Pro- fundus Digitorum. About the middle of the Fore Arm, a Filament is transmitted, which adheres to the Ulnar Artery, fur- nishing small Twigs to the Coats and Sheath ol the Ar- tery, and terminating in the corresponding parts of the Wrist, and Integuments of the Palm. Near the end of the Ulna, a considerable Branch, termed Dorsalis, is sent out, which, turning between the Flexor Ulnaris and Ulna, is directed to the back part of the Hand. The Dorsal Nerve sends Branches to the Integuments of the Wrist and Metacarpus, which have various A- nastomoses with others of the Spiral Nerve. It sends off a Branch, which proceeds along the Ul- nar side of the Little Finger; and at the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones, another splitting into two Branches, which run along the adjacent sides of the Auricular and Ring Fingers. The Trunk of the Nerve passes with the correspond- ing Artery over the Annular Ligament into the Palm, where, like the Radial Nerve, it is covered with the Aponeurosis Palmaris. In the Palm, it divides into Superficial and Deep Branches ; the former destined chiefly for the Fingers, the latter for the Deep Region of the Hand. r of V ThePart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 203 The Superficial Palmar Nerve sends— Branches to the short Muscles of the Little Finger: A Branch to the Volar-Ulnar side of the Little Fai- rer : and— Another, which is soon split into two smaller Branch- es; one to the Radial side of the Little Finger, the other to the Ulnar side of the Ring Finger. The Deep Palmar Nerve sinks in between the Abduc- tor and Flexor Parvus Digiti Minimi, or perforates the 'Head of the latter, and forms an Arch which accompa- nies the Deep Arch of the Arteries, under the Tendons jjf the Flexors, and the Lumbricales. The Deep Nerve gives— A Branch to the Abductor Minimi Digiti, and one :.o each of the Interossei: A Twig to each of the Lumbricales, which enters from behind: Branches to the Flexor Brevis and Adductor Pollicis. The Nerve terminates at length by several short IBranches upon the Abductor lndicis. The Nerves on the Palm and corresponding part of the Fingers, like the Arteries, are much larger than those of the opposite side of the Hand. The Digital Nerves send off many lateral Branches i o the Integuments and other parts of the Fingers, and xerminate, each, by a Brush of Fibres, at the Apices if the Fingers. i Between the Branches of the Radial and Ulnar Nerves, different Anastomoses are frequently found; and the same maj be observed between the Nerves of •the Palmar and Dorsal sides of the Fingers. Inter-204 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. Intf.rcosto-PIumeuales.—Besides the Nerves of the Superior Extremity sent from the Brachial Plexus, there are others belonging to it, which take their origin from the Intercostal Nerves, and which may therefore be termed [ntercosto-Humerales. The Intercosto-Humeral Nerves consist of a Branch from the Second, and of another from the Third Inter- costal Nerves ; both of which pass out at the fore and lateral parts of the Thorax, the one under the Second, and the other under the 1 bird Rib. The First Nerve is joined bj a small Branch with the Cutaneous Nerve, or with the Cutaveus Interims of Wrisberg, and is afterwards dispersed by numerous Filaments upon the Axillary GJands, and upon the In- teguments of the Axilla and of the inner part of the Arm. ’ , The Second Nerve is connected by one or more Branches with the First, and sends some Twigs to the Axillary Glands ; but is chiefly distributed upon the In- teguments of the back part of the Arm, which it sup- plies with many Branches,—some of them extending as far as the Elbow. NERVES t c cPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 205 NERVES l WITHIN THE THORAX. The Nerves, in each side of the Thorax, consist of tthe Phrenic, the Pars Vaga of the Eighth Pair, the {.Great Sympathetic, and the Intercostals; all of which are concealed by the Pleura, till they are exposed by IDissection. The Phrenic, or Diaphragmatic Nerve, has a -small Filament from the second Cervical; but is chiefly formed by a Branch from the Third, and by one, and ■sometimes by two, from the Fourth Cervical Nerve. It descends in the Neck, along the outer and fore part of the Scalenus Anticus, and enters the Thorax Ibehind the anterior extremity of the First Rib, between tthe Subclavian Artery and corresponding Vein. In the Thorax, it passes over the root of the Lungs, and then proceeds along the Pericardium, to which it ^adheres closely in its way to the Diaphragm. The Right Phrenic has nearly a straight direction op- posite to the Superior Cava and Right Auricle; while tthe left makes a considerable Curve near its under end, ■corresponding with that part of the Pericardium which covers the Point of the Heart. Upon the Surface of the Diaphragm, the Trunk is divided208 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIIV divided into several Branches, which are distributed in a radiated form upon the Fleshy sides of that Muscle. Pars Vaga.—The Pars Vaga, upon approaching the Thorax, sends a Filament, and sometimes two, termed Cardiac Nerves, which join the Cardiac Branch of the Great Sympathetic, as already observed. It enters the Thorax between the Subclavian Vein and Artery, and, after giving off the Recurrent Nerve, passes behind the root of the Lungs. Recurrent Nerve.—The Recurrent is reflected up- wards, behind the Subclavian Artefy in the right, and behind the Arch of the Aorta in the left side of the Thorax ;—in consequence of which the left Nerve is the longer of the two. It afterwards ascends in the Neck, adhering to the posterior and lateral parts of the Trachea in its way to the Larynx. It is connected, near its Origin, by one or two Branches of considerable size, with the adjacent Ganglia of the Great Sympathetic Nerve ; and from the oppo- site side of its Root it sends other considerable Branches to join those of the Eighth Pair, in the formation of the Anterior Pulmonary Plexus of Nerves. Near the Subclavian Artery, it is connected by diffe- rent Filaments to the Superficial and Deep Cardiac Branches of the Sympathetic Nerve. In its ascent in the Neck, it transmits Pencils of Fi- laments, which penetrate the Trachea, and are dispersed- upon its Internal Membrane. Behind the Thyroid Gland, it sends off minute Fibres- to the beginning of the Esophagus and bottom of the Pharynx, and small Twigs to the Gland itself. Upon207 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. Upon the inner side of the Thyroid Cartilage, it furnishes a Branch which constitutes a remarkable Anastomosis with another from the Internal Laryngeal Nerve. At the back part of the Larynx, it is divided into many Fibrilke, which are distributed to the different. Muscles fixed to the Arytenoid Cartilage of the corre- sponding side. It has also some connections, smaller than the one already mentioned, with Branches of the Internal La- ryngeal Nerve, and sends minute Fibrillae to the Inter- nal Membrane of the Larynx; from which circum- stance, the Recurrent Nerves are considered as the principal Instruments of the Organ of Voice. The Pars Vaga, having transmitted the Recurrent Nerve, gives off Filaments which form connections with Branches arising from the Root of the Recurrent of the same and of the opposite side. They anastomose also by small Fibrillae with the Car- diac Branch of the Sympathetic, and then pass to the fore part of the Bronchi, where they constitute what is termed the Anterior Pulmonary Plexus of Nerves. The Anterior Pulmonary Plexus, thus formed by Branches from the Trunk of the Eighth Pair, with the assistance of others from the Recurrent and Sympathe- tic Nerves, extends across the Great Branches of the Pulmonary Artery, and, after transmitting small Fila- ments to the Pericardium and to the Great Cardiac Nerve, furnishes many minute Fibrillae, which accom- pany the Ramifications of the Bronchi and Pulmonary Blood-vessels in the Substance of the Lungs. From208 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. the I rom the Pars Vaga, a little below the origin of the Recurrent, and likewise from the Root of the Recurrent itself. Nerves are sent oft', which form a Plexus, to bg dispersed, partly upon the Fleshy-Glandular Substance of the Trachea, and partly embracing the Esophagus, and forming upon it the small Esophageal Plexus. Behind the Root of the Lungs, about six or seven Nerves of different sizes are sent off in a transverse di- rection, whieh are termed Posterior Pulmonary Plexus, although they have few connections with each other. The Posterior Pulmonary Nerves, like the Anterior, follow the Branches of the Bronchi and Blood-vessels in the Substance of the Lungs, and, becoming gradually smaller, send off minute Twigs, which penetrate the Air-vessels, and are ultimately dispersed upon their In- ternal Membrane. After giving out the Pulmonary Nerves, the Pars Yaga is split into Cords, termed Great Esophageal Plexus, which surrounds the Esophagus, sends Fila- ments into its Substance, and is joined by Funiculi of the Pars Vaga of the opposite side.—It goes afterwards through the Diaphragm, to be distributed upon the Viscera of the Abdomen. From the Ganglia of the Great Sympathetic Nerve, at the bottom of the Neck, and top of the Thorax, the principal Cardiac Nerves are produced, which are dis- persed upon the Fleart, while the continuation of the Trunk of the Sympathetic descends in the Thorax at the side of the Vertebras. The Cardiac Nerves of the Right Side consist of the Cardiacus Magnus Profundus, and Cardiacus Minor ;Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. 20$ the latter of which is termed by Scarpa Cardiacus Aor- ta Superficialis. The Cardiacus Magnus Profundus is principally formed by Branches from the Second Cervical Ganglion of the Sympathetic, and afterwards receives one or two Filaments from the Cardiacus Supremus, together with the Superficial Cardiac and other Branches of the Eighth Pair, as formerly described. The Trunk, arising in this manner from different sources, passes between the Superior Cava and ascend- ing Aorta, to the posterior Surface of the latter, and joins the Cardiac Branches of the left side. By the addition of the Left Cardiac Nerves, a Plexus is formed, termed Plexus Cardiacus Magnus of Haller, from which is sent out a long Ganglion of a soft con- sistence, described by Wrisberg under the name of Ganglion Cardiacum. * From the Cardiac Ganglion, the following Branches tire given off, viz. A Branch which, after transmitting Filaments to the Anterior Pulmonary Plexus of the Eighth Pair, passes behind the Right Division of the Pulmonary Artery to the Left Coronary Plexus of the Heart: One or two Filaments, which unite with others sent from the Anterior Pulmonary Plexus of the Eighth Pair, and go before the Right Branch of the Pulmo- nary Artery to the Base of the Heart: Branches of considerable size, passing partly over the right side of the Aorta, and partly between it and the Pulmonary Artery, to the Anterior Coronary Plexus: 7 Vol. III. () Small210 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVIL Small Branches which unite with others coming from the Trunk of the Great Cardiac Nerve, and pass over the Aorta to the Anterior Coronary Plexus. The Nervus Cardiacus Minor arises from the un- dermost Cervical Ganglion, creeps over the Arteria In- nominata and Aorta, and terminates in a Plexus formed by the Cardiac Nerves on the left side of the Aorta Asccndens. The Left Cardiac Nerves are, the Cardiacus Su- perficialis, and the Cardiacus Magnus Profundus. The Cardiacus Superficialis arises from the upper part of the Sympathetic Nerve, as formerly noticed, and passes behind the Arch of the Aorta to the Plexus Cardiacus Magnus. The Cardiacus Magnus Profundus Sinister, the upper portion of which is smaller than that of the right side, arises by numerous roots from the middle, and from the lowest Ganglion of the Sympathetic Nerve. It passes across the Arch of the Aorta, and, after receiving the Cardiac Branch of the Eighth Pair, joins the Great Cardiac of the right side, to assist in forming the Cardiac Plexus. From the Cardiac Plexus, a Reticulum of Nerves ex- tends upon the left side of the Ascending Aorta, which receives the Cardiacus Minor, and a Filament or two from the Cardiacus Magnus of the right side, going over the Aorta. From this Reticulum, the Anterior or Right Coro- nary Plexus is produced, which passes between the Pul- monary Artery and Aorta, and afterwards follows the course of the Trunk and Branches of the Right Coro- naryt>Aftf VII.] OF THE NERVES. 211 nary Artery, along with which it is dispersed upon the corresponding side of the Heart. The Great Cardiac Plexus, after sending a Filament or two to the Lungs, gives off Nerves which unite and form the Trunk of the Great Deep Cardiac Nerve of the left side* which has a soft Gangliform appearance, and passes along the corresponding side of the Pulmo- nary Artery. Upon the Surface of this Artery, the Trunk soon di- vides into Branches, which, after sending Filaments across it to the Right Coronary Plexus, give origin to the Coronary Plexus of the left side, which attends the Trunk and Branches of the Left Coronary Artery. In the Left or Posterior Coronary Plexus, the Nerves are larger than in the Right, corresponding with the parts they have to supply; and the Plexuses have re- peated connections with each other on the Surface of the Heart. In general, the Nerves run close to the Arteries; some of them being continued as far as the Apex, while others penetrate the Substance of the Heart. The Great Sympathetic, having produced the prin- cipal Cardiac Nerves, consists of an anterior and a pos- terior part,—the former going over, and the latter un- der the Subclavian Artery. Behind this Artery, the two parts unite into a Trunk, which descends in the Thorax over the Heads of the Ribs. At the head of each Rib, it forms a small Ganglion of an irregular shape, which unites behind with each of O 2 the212 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII, the Intercostal Nerves, generally by two, and some- times by three short Branches. From several of the Dorsal Ganglia of this Nerve, Filaments are detached obliquely over the Vertebrae to the Coats of the Aorta. From the Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Dorsal Gan- glia,—and frequently from a Ganglion above or below these,—Branches arise, which descend obliquely upon the sides of the Vertebrae, and unite into a Trunk, termed Nervus Splanchnicus, which perforates the Ap- pendix of the Diaphragm, and goes to the Viscera of the Abdomen ; from which circumstance the Nerve ob- tains its name. Besides the Nervus Splanchnicus, another, termed Splanchnicus Secundarius, or Accessorius, is generally observed, which arises from one or two of the Dorsal Ganglia, below the origins of the Splanchnicus,—near its termination,—or runs separate from it into the Ab- domen. The Intercostal, or Costal, or Dorsal Nerves, after escaping from the Vertebrae, run in the Furrows at the lower edges of the Ribs, in company with the Intercostal Blood-vessels, and proceed to the anterior part of the Thorax, between the two Layers of the In- tercostales. Immediately after getting out from between the Ver- tebrae, each is connected, as already taken notice of, by short Branches to the Sympathetic Nerve. Opposite to this connection, they give principal Branches backwards to the Muscles lying near the Spine, and serving for the erection of the Trunk of the Body. ThroughPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 213 Through the rest of their course, they send off Brandies to the Intercostales, to the Muscles and Integuments of the Thorax, and also to those of the Abdomen, and, becoming gradually smaller, they at last vanish in the fore part of the Body. The six upper Intercostals send Branches to the nu- merous Muscles, and to the Integuments covering the back part of the Thorax, to the Serratus Magnus, and to the upper part of the Abdominal Muscles ; while the remains of them, passing out between the Ribs at the edge of the Sternum, are reflected along with Branches of the Internal Mammary Blood-vessels, to be dispers- ed by small Filaments upon the Mamma, and likewise upon the Muscles and Integuments next the edge of the Sternum. The Trunk of the First Intercostal enters into the com- position of the Axillary Plexus ; a Brandi of it, however, runs along the edge of the First Rib, in the manner the other Intercostals run along their respective Ribs. Two Principal Branches, one from the Second, and the other from the Third Intercostal, are occupied in forming the Intercosto-PIumeral Nerves, already de- scribed ; while a considerable Branch from the Fourth is reflected over the edge of the I.atissimus Dorsi to the Integuments of the back part of the Thorax. The Six Lower Intercostals, after supplying the ad- jacent Muscles and Integuments of the Thorax, con- tinue their course obliquely forwards, and are dispersed upon the different Muscles and Integuments of the Ab- domen ;—the Twelfth, running from the lust Rib along 0 3 the21* COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. The the under end of the Abdomen, sends Filaments, which extend as far as the Skin of the Pelvis and Thiffh. O NERVES OF THE CHYLOPOIETIC AND ASSISTANT CHYIyO- FOIETIC VISCERA. The Nerves of the Chylopoietic and Assistant Chy- lopoietic Viscera arc formed by Branches of the Par Vagum, and by the Rami Splanchnici of the Great Sym- pathetic Pair; all which, like the Blood-vessels, are covered by the Peritoneum, in their course towards the Viscera. The Pars Vaga of the Left Side, descending from the Great Esophageal Plexus of the Eighth Pair, creeps along the fore part of the Cardia, detaches Filaments to the Left Hepatic Plexus, and divides into many Branches which are distributed to the Upper and Left Portion of the Stomach. The Right Pars Vaga passes upon the posterior part of the Cardia, and splits into two Fasciculi; one of which goes to the root of the Hepatic Plexus, and to the Coeliac Ganglion, while the other, which is the principal one, is dispersed by numerous Branches upon the under and left portion of the Stomach.Part VII.] OF THE NERVES, 215 The Nerves of the two Fasciculi have several connec- tions with each other, about the Cardia, and along the small Curvature of the Stomach, and form a Plexus, by some Authors termed Coronary, from which Branches extend along the small Curvature, as far as the Pylorus. The Ramus Speanchnicus, and Sflanchnicus Se- cundarius, have their origins from the Sympathetics, and perforate the upper and lateral part of the inferior Muscle of the Diaphragm,—as already mentioned in the Description of the Nerves ,of the Thorax. After entering the Abdomen, they expand their Fi- bres, and incorporate with the lateral part of the Great Semilunar Ganglion. The Semilunar Ganglion is formed by the Rami Splanchnici of the Right and Left Sympathetics, with the addition of the Branches of the Eighth Pair. It is of a long curved shape, with the convex edge undermost, and is composed of many smaller Ganglia, termed Cccliac, which are of different sizes and of irre- gular forms. The Cceliac Ganglia arc placed over the Aorta, about the roots of the Coeliac and Superior Mesenteric Arteries, and extend some way upon the Fleshy Pillars of the Diaphragm. From the Coeliac Ganglia innumerable Nerves issue on all sides, forming a Plexus, termed by some Authors Solar, which extends along the Trunks and Branches of the Coeliac and Superior Mesenteric Arteries. The Nerves upon these Arteries are so intermixed with each other, and with Cellular Substance, as to form confused Webs-, the name of Plexus, however, is still O 4 retained,216 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartVU. The retained, and the particular name of each Plexus is de- rived from the Artery which it surrounds, or the Yiscus to which it belongs. The Hepatic Plexus, after giving Twigs to the Re- nal Glands, sends Filaments to the Diaphragm, which accompany the Diaphragmatic Arteries, and anastomose with Branches of the Phrenic Nerves. It afterwards divides into Right and Left Plexuses, corresponding with the Right and Left Branches of the Hepatic Artery, or with the Right and Left Trunks, when such are present. The Left Hepatic Plexus furnishes several Branches to the Stomach, which intermix with those of the Eighth Pair, upon the small Curvature. The Right Hepatic Plexus imparts Branches to the corresponding parts of the Pancreas, to the small end of the Stomach and beginning of the Duodenum, and gives origin to the Right Gastro-Epiploic Plexus, which attends the Artery of the same name, distributing its Filaments to the Great Curvature of the Stomach, and to the Omentum Majus. The Hepatic Plexuses surround the Hepatic Artery and Vena Portae, and, after sending several Filaments to the Biliary Ducts and Gall-Bladder, follow the Branches of the Blood-vessels through the Substance of the Liver. The Splenic Plexus, composed of several small Filaments, surrounds the Splenic Artery, gives Twigs to the Pancreas, and then accompanies the Vessels into the Spleen.217 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. The Superior Mesenteric Plexus forms a Vagina, which surrounds, and in a great part conceals, the Trunk of the corresponding Artery. From this Plexus, numberless Filaments, many of diem extremely minute, are produced, which run through the Mesentery, partly with the Blood-vessels, and partly at a distance from them; and which, after supplying the Coats of the Vessels and Mesenteric Glands, are distributed to the small Intestines in general, and to the i’in;ht Portion of the Colon. The Nerves of the Colon are, in proportion to tho part they have to supply, larger than those of the small Intestines, and in several places form Arches, which are situated at the sides of the Arteries. The Cceliac Ganglia send down, along the Aorta, a Vagina similar to that surrounding the Superior Mesen- teric Artery, which is joined by other Nerves from the Trunk of the Sympathetic continued along the Lumbar Vertebrae. From the Aortic Vagina or Plexus, a Process is sent off, termed Inferior Mesenteric Plexus, which sur- rounds the Trunk of the Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and follows it to the Left Portion of the Colon, and to the Rectum ;—the Nervous Filaments forming Arches in several places, as in the Superior Mesenteric Plexus. The Aortic Plexus, receiving fresh supplies from the Trunks of the Sympathetics, sends down a Plexus, com- monly termed Hypogastric, which passes over the end of the Aorta, and, upon the last Lumbar Vertebra, splits into right and left Portions, which descend to the Vis- cera contained in the Pelvis. NERVES218 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. NERVES OF THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERATION. The Nerves of the Organs of Urine and Generation consist of the Renal and Hypogastric Plexus, and of the Spermatic and Pudic Branches. The Renal Plexus is composed of Nerves sent from the Coeliac Ganglia, joined by some others derived from one or two of the Ganglia of the Sympathetic Nerve in the bottom of the Thorax. It is interspersed, at its beginning, with small Gan- glia, termed Renal, and is afterwards divided into An- terior and Posterior Plexuses, which extend along the corresponding Surfaces of the Renal Artery, accompa- nying its Branches in the Substance of the Kidney. From the Renal Plexus, small Nervous Twigs ascend to the Renal Gland, w'hich is furnished with others from the Coeliac Ganglia and root of the Hepatic Plexus. The Renal Plexus also sends down Filaments to sup- ply the upper portion of the Ureter,—the under receiv- ing Nerves from the Hypogastric Plexus. The Hypogastric Plexus, the origin and course of which have been already mentioned, is connected by different Nerves to the adjacent Trunks of the Great Sympathetic and Sacral Nerves, and sends many BranchesPart VII.] OF THE NERVES. 21 9 Brandies to the Rectum, Bladder, and Spermatic Ves- sels in the Male ; and to the Rectum, Bladder, Uterus, and Vagina in the Female.—The Nerves of the Uterus are proportionally small.—They pass into its Substance at the Cervix, and follow the course of the Blood- vessels. Spermatic Nerves.—The Spermatic Nerves are very minute;—they consist of a Superior or Inter- nal, and of an Inferior or External Set of Capillary Branches. The former are derived from the Renal and Aortic Plexus, and accompany the Spermatic Blood-vessels in their course through the Abdomen, and afterwards to the Testicle. The latter are sent off from a Branch of the second Lumbar Nerve, which, running near the Spermatic Ves- sels, detaches a Filament, which, in the Male, goes in the Spermatic Cord towards the Testicle, but is more particularly dispersed upon the Cremaster. In the Fe- male, Filaments are reflected from it along the Liga- mentum Rotundum to the Uterus. Nervi Pudici.—The Nervi Pudici arise in two Fas- ciculi,—a Superior and Inferior,—which are formed by Fibrillae from all the Cords entering into the composition of the Sciatic Nerve. The Superior Fasciculus consists, more particular- ly, of Threads from the two under Lumbar and two upper Sacral Nerves;—the Inferior is composed of a small Cord from the Second, and a large one from the Third Sacral. The Fasciculi pass through the under part of the Notch220 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. Notch of the Os Ilium, and afterwards between the Sa- cro-Sciatic Ligaments, and follow the Pudic Blood-ves- sels, anastomosing in soipe places with each other by oblique Branches. They send many Branches to the Muscles and other parts about the Anus and Perinccum, and then pass for- wards to supply the different parts of the Penis. On the Penis, the Nerves follow the course of the Arteries ; the Superior Fasciculus constituting the Ner- vus Dorsalis, and the Inferior giving Branches to the under part of that Organ. The Nervus Dorsalis, which is the most considerable Nerve of the Penis, runs forwards between the corre- sponding Artery and Vena Magna, expanding into many Branches, which, after supplying the Corpus Caverno- sum and Teguments of the corresponding side, termi- nate in the Substance of the Gians. NEE V ES OF TIIE LOINS, PELVIS, AND INFERIOR EX- TREMITY. The Nerves of the Loins, Pelvis, and Inferior Ex- tremity, consist of the continuation or inferior portion of22 L Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. of the Sympathetic, and of the Tranks and Branches of the Lumbar and Sacral Nerves. The Sympathetic Nerve, after reaching the Abdo- men, makes a sweep forwards upon the anterior and la- teral part of the Lumbar Vertebrae, between the Tendi- nous Crura of the Diaphragm and the Psoas. It afterwards descends into the Pelvis, nearly of the 3ame size as in the superior parts of the Body, and passes over the anterior Surface of the Os Sacrum, at the inner side of the Great Sacral Foramina. Towards the lower part of the Pelvis, it becomes con- siderably smaller, and at last finishes its course upon the Surface of the Os Coccygis, where it unites into an Arch with its Fellow of the opposite side. In the Loins, it forms Ganglia similar to those in the Thorax, each of which is connected behind by two or three long slender Branches to the roots of the Lumbar Nerves, and before, by other slender Nerves, to the Aortic Plexus. In the Pelvis also it forms Ganglia, which are connect- ed to the Sacral Nerves on one side, and to the Great Sympatheticj3n the other, by cross Branches. Filaments are sent off, in the Pelvis, from the Sym- pathetic to the Muscles and Membranes about the Os Coccygis, and to the Intestinum Rectum. Lumbar Nerves. The Five Lumbar Nerves, immediately after emerg- ing from between the Bones, communicate with each o- ther, and are connected with the Sympathetic Nerve by Branches222 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII Branches which run over the sides of the Vertebrae, and send large Branches backwards to the Muscles and In- teguments on the posterior part of the Loins. By their connections with each other, they compose a Plexus termed Lumbar, which is situated behind the Psoas, and sends Branches outwards to the Quadratus Lumborum, and to the Flexors of the Thigh. The First Lumbar Nerve is connected by a small Branch to the Twelfth Dorsal, and by its Trunk to the Sccpnd Lumbar. After giving Twigs to the Muscles of the Loins, it detaches a principal Branch, which passes over the Quadratus Lumborum towards the Spine of the Os Ilium, where it sends Branches to the Integuments of the Pelvis, to the upper and outer part of the Thigh, to the under end of the Abdominal Muscles, to the In- teguments of the Groin, and to the Pubes and Scrotum. The Second Lumbar perforates the Psoas, to which it gives Branches, and afterwards runs into the Third. From the Second Lumbar, and partly also from the First, the Spennaticus Extenius is sent off, which perfo- rates the upper end of the Psoas, and descends near the Spermatic Vessels to the under part of the Abdo- men. Near Poupart’s Ligament, and sometimes much higher, it splits into two Branches: One goes through the Abdominal Ring, to be dispersed upon the Pubes, Spermatic Cord, Scrotum, and Testis, in the Male; and upon the Round Ligament, the Uterus, the Mons Veneris, and Labia Externa, in the Female. The other Branch passes out with the Femoral Ves- sels,223 Fart VII.] OF THE NERVES. sels, and sends Branches to the Inguinal Glands, ajid to the Integuments of the fore part of the Thigh. Another Branch is sent from the Second, or from the Second and Third Lumbars, termed Cutaneus Externus, which passes behind the Psoas, and across the Iliacus Interims, to the Superior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium. It afterwards bends over the outer end of Poupart’s Ligament, and descends in the Anterior and External Part of the Thigh ; dividing into Branch- es, which are chiefly dispersed upon the Integuments covering the Vastus Externus; some Twigs extending as far as the Joint of the Knee. Branches of the Second, Third, and Fourth Lum- bars, form a Nerve of considerable size, called Obturator or Sub-pubial, which passes between the External and Internal Iliac Blood-vessels, and along the side of the Pelvis. The Obturator Nerve accompanies the Blood-ves- sels of the same name through the upper part of the Obturator Muscles and Ligament, and having furnished Branches to the Obturators and Pectineus, it divides into an Anterior and a Posterior Fasciculus; the former dispersed upon the two small Adductors and Gracilis, the latter upon the Adductor Magnus Femoris. The principal parts of the Trunks of the four upper Lumbar Nerves, especially of the Third and Fourth, unite and form a Nerve of great size, termed Crural or Anterior Femoral. The Crural Nerve, after bestowing Branches upon the Iliacus Internus and Psoas, passes behind, then at the outside of the Psoas, to get to the Thigh. In224 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIt. Ip its course from the Abdomen, and at the upper part of the Thigh, it is situated at the outside of the Femoral Artery, which lies between it and the correy sponding Vein. Behind Poupart’s Ligament, it is divided into many Branches, which are distributed to the Muscles and In- teguments on the fore and lateral parts of the Thigh,— one Branch in particular, termed Saphcenus, descending upon the Leg. The Branches are as follow : The Cutaneiis Medius, which descends in the fore part of the Thigh, opposite to the inner edge of the Rectus, and supplies the Integuments near it, as far as the Knee, —one Branch of it connecting itself with another of the Cutaneus Anterior: The Cutaneus Anterior, more internal than the Cuta- neus Medius,—which crosses over the middle of the Sartorius, and, after supplying the adjacent Integu- ments, terminates in the Skin and Cellular Substance, at the fore and inner part of the Knee: The Cutaneus Interims, still more internal than the former, which passes between the Sartorius ancl Triceps, and, after giving Filaments to the Integuments at thc- inside of the Thigh, terminates in the Skin, at the un- der and fore part of the Knee. The Deep Branches of the Crural Nerve, which are considerably larger than the Superficial, go to the Pec- fineus and Triceps, to the Sartorius and Gracilis, and to the four Extensors of the Leg, and also furnish Twigs to the Femoral Blood-vessels. The Ncrvus Saphanus descends between the Sartorius and22£ Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. and Triceps, and afterwards behind the Tendon of the former, to the inner side of the Tibia. Under the Knee it gives off a Branch, named by Fis- cher Saphcenus Minor, which goes down a little behind the Saphaenus, and, furnishing Filaments to the Inte- guments of the inner and back part of the Leg, termi- nates behind the Malleolus Internus, on the Integu- ments of the Foot. The Trunk of the Sapluenus attends the Vena Sa- phaena Major, sending many Nervous Threads oblique- ly forwards to the Integuments on the inner and fore 1 part of the Leg, and is at length consumed upon the Skin and Cellular Substance of the upper and inner part of the Foot. The remaining part of the Fourth Lumbar Nerve unites with the Fifth into a Trunk which descends into the Pelvis. Sacral Nerves. The Sacral Nerves consist of small Posteriori and large Anterior Trunks. The Posterior Sacral Nerves pass out by the Holes in the back part of the Os Sacrum, and anasto- mose with each other, and with some of the Branches of the Gluteal Nerve. They send out a few tender Fibrilke, which are * * dispersed upon the Muscles covering the back part of the Os Sacrum, and upon the Glutei and their Integu- ments. Anterior Sacral Nerves.—Of the Anterior Sa- Vol. III. P crals.22G COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. crals, the two uppermost are the largest; the rest sud- denly diminish in size, the last being the smallest of the Spinal Nerycs. They go through the Holes in the fore part of the Os Sacrum, and, soon after their exit, are united with each other, and with Branches of the Sympathetic Nerve. The Fjiist, Second, and Third Sacrals, join into a Trunk, which receives the common one sent down from the Fourth and Fifth Lumbars, and forms a Plexus which sends out the Sciatic, the largest Nerve of the Body. The roots of the Sciatic Nerve give origin to the Fas- ciculi which compose the Pudic Nerve, formerly de- scribed, and also the Gluteal Nerves which are dispersed upon the Muscles of the Flips. The Gluteal Nerves run in two Fasciculi, a Supe- rior, arising immediately from the Trunk formed by the last Lumbars, and an Inferior, coming oil’from the two last Lumbars, and first Sacral. The Superior Fasciculus goes through the upper part of the Notch of the Os Ilium, to be dispersed upon the two smaller Glutei. The Inferior Fasciculus passes through the under part of the same Notch, and below the Pyriformis, to be distributed upon the Gluteus Maximus and Integu- ments. The Fourth Sacral sends Filaments to the Plypo- gastric Plexus, others to the Muscles and Ligaments of the Os Coceygis ; the rest pass outwards to the Muscles, and Integuments about the Anus, . " " ?• .:<;Thq227 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. The Fifth, which is scarcely above the size of a sew- ing-thread, passes forwards between the extremity of the Os Sacrum and Os Coccygis. After giving Twigs to the Coceygeus, it perforates the Sacro-Sciatic Liga- ments, and terminates in the Muscles and Integuments of the Anus. Scfatic Nerve.—The Sciatic or Ischiatic Nerve passes obliquely through the Notch of the Ilium, between the Pyriformis and Gemelli. It goes afterwards over the other short Rotator Muscles, and is placed between the Tuber Ischii and Trochanter Major, where it is co- vered by the Gluteus Maximus. After leaving the Pelvis, it descends in the back part of the Thigh, fi^st between the Long Flexors and Ad- ductor Magnus, and then between the latter and Os Femoris, to the Ham, where it obtains the name of Po- plitcus. In this course, it gives out the following Branches, which supply the Muscles and Integuments on the back part of the Thigh, viz. Twigs to the Rotators of the Thigh, which come oft' from it after its passage through the Sciatic Notch : The Cuianeus Superior Posterior, which arises within the Pelvis, and, passing out with the Sciatic, is divided into Branches, some of which arc reflected to the Scro-< turn in the Male, and to the posterior parts of the La- bia in the Female; and in both, to the Skin about the Anus and Pcrinceum.—The principal Branches of this Nerve pass downwards, supplying the Integuments of the back part of the Thigh, as far as the bending of the Knee:228 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII A Branch to the Long Head of the Biceps: Two small Nerve,s, the one termed Cidaneus Interims Superior, which comes off near the upper part of the Thigh, and vanishes in the Skin, a little farther down ; the other, termed Cutancus Interims Inferior, which arises near the former, goes down the posterior part of the Thigh, and then, descending upon the inner Head of the Gastrocnemius Extern us, terminates in the In- teguments of the Calf of the Leg : A Larne Common Trunk, and sometimes, instead of it, separate Branches, which arise near the middle of the Thigh, and are distributed to the Adductor Mag- nus, Semi-Membranosus, Biceps, and Semi-Tendino- sus. Nervus Popliteus.—The Popliteal Nerve is situated between the Ham-strings, and between the Skin and Popliteal Blood-vessels. A little above the bending of the Knee, it is divided into a Small External, and a Large Internal Branch ; the former named Popliteus Ext cm us, or Fibular, and the latter Popliteus Interims, or Tibial Nerve. The Tibial and Fibular Nerves adhere, for someway,, by Cellular Substance; and even the Trunk of the Sciatic may be split into these two Nerves for a consi- derable way up the Thigh. The Fibular, termed also Peroneal Nerve, sends off, at its beginning, the Cutancus Externus, which is a small Branch giving Twigs to the under end of the Bi- ceps, and which, after running down on the outer Head of the Gastrocnemius, disappears in the Integuments of the same side of the Leg. Over229 Part VII.] OF THE NERVES. Over the outer Condyle of the Os Femoris, it gives off’ another Cutaneous Branch, which descends upon the Gastrocnemius, and, after anastomosing with a Branch of the Tibialis, goes along the outer part of the Leg, and terminates in the Integuments of that side of the Foot. The Fibular Nerve afterwards passes over the Head of the Fibula, and divides into Superficial and Deep Branchest which supply the Muscles and Integuments of the outer and fore part of the Leg. The Superfcial Fibulor crosses over the Fibula, im- mediately under its articulation, and, perforating the Peroneus Longus, and going over the Brevis, it gives Branches to both, and afterwards becomes Subcuta- neous, about the middle of the outer part of the Leg. It sends Branches to the Metatarsus, and to the Ex- tensor Digitorum Brevis ; and others, which, after anas- tomosing upon the upper part of the Foot, furnish Dor- sal Branches to the larger Toes. The Deep Fibular Nerve crosses over the Fibula, im- mediately above the former, and divides into several Branches, viz. A Defected Branch to the soft parts of the Joint *. A Branch to the Peroneus Longus: A Branch to the Tibialis Anticus: Branches to the Extensor Pollicis, and Extensor Di- gitorum Longus : Filaments which creep along the Periosteum of the Tibia, and others which adhere to the Coats of the Ti- bia! Arterv. •»230 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VIE I lie longest Branch of the Nerve accompanies the Anterior Tibial Artery, and divides upon the Foot into Branches, which have some connections with each other, and supply the Extensor Digitorum Brevis.—Some Fi- laments continued from these Branches run to the In- terossci, while others of more considerable size go to some of the innermost Toes ; one Twig sinking with a Branch of the Anterior Tibial Artery to the Deep Muscles of tbe Sole. The Tibial Nerve passes between the Heads of the Gastrocnemius, and, perforating the origin of the So- leus, descends between it and the Flexor Digitorum Longus, upon the Posterior Tibial Artery, to the under part of the Leg; in which course, it sends off the foL lowing Nerves, viz. The Comviunicans Tibia?, which accompanies the Vena Sapliama Minor in the back part of the Leg, and to the outer part of the Foot. Behind the Belly of the Gastrocnemius, the Comrnu- nicans sends a^Branch to be consumed in the I at; and a little lowpr, it anastomoses with the communicating Branch of the Fibular Nerve. The under part of this Nerve is dispersed upon the Integuments of the outer Ankle and adjacent side of the Foot, some Branches passing as far as the Dorsal side of two or three of the smaller Toes: Branches to both Pleads of the Gastrocnemius, to the Plantaris, and to the Soleus. Near the middle of the Leg, it sends Branches to the Tibialis Posticus, to the Flexor Digitorum, and Flexoi* Pollicis. OnePart VII.] OF THE NERVES 231 One or two Cutaneous Branches, dispersed upon the Skin at the under and inner part of the Leg: Near the Ankle, a Branch which passes behind the Tendo Achillis; principally to the Integuments of the outer and back part of the Foot. The Tibial Nerve passes afterwards between the Ar- teries and Os Calcis into the Sole. In the hollow of the Os Calcis, after detaching Branches to the parts adjacent, it divides into Internal and External Plantar Nerves, which are nearly of equal size. The Internal Plantar Nerve runs near the inner side of the Sole, sends Filaments to the Abductor Pol- licis. Flexor Digitorum Brevis, and Flexor Digitorum Accessorius, and Twigs to the Lumbricales. It afterwards gives out four large Branches, splitting into others, which run with the Arteries along the Plan- tar sides of the three first Toes, and inner side of the fourth Toe,—in the manner the Radial Nerve runs along the corresponding Fingers. The External Plantar Nerve sends Branches to the Heel, and passes with the Artery of the same name to near the Outer edge of the Sole, where it splits into three principal Branches. The two first run to the adjacent sides of the Fourth and Fifth Toes, and outer side of the Little Toe ; the inner one often anastomosing with a corresponding Branch of the Internal Plantar. The third forms an Arch corresponding with that of the External Plantar Artery, furnishes Branches to the short Muscles of the Little Toe, to the Interossei, Lum- P I) bricales.232 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part VII. brieales, and Transversalis, and terminates in the short Muscles of the Great Toe. The Plantar Digital Nerves send Filaments to the Integuments, and upon the Toes anastomose with each other, and with the Dorsal-Digital Nerves,—as the Palmar-Digital Nerves do in the Hand. GLOSSARY.TABLE XXIX. (Gives a General View of the Arterial and Venou3 Systems. FIG. l. Head and Neck. ft The frontal vein. V, The facial vein. ,, The temporal vein. Ift The trunk of the temporal vein, where it lies behind the parotid gland, and receives the transversalis faciei. „ The common trunk formed by the facial and tempo- ral veins, opening into, 3, B, The internal jugulars. The occipital veins. V, The external jugular, arising from the temporal vein. j, The anterior external jugular vein. [{, A, The external jugular veins, descending, and com- municating by, ,, A cross branch at the bottom of the neck. „ k, The termination of the external jugulars in the subclavian veins. ,, The left carotid artery ascending at the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and at the place of its divi- sion sending off the superior laryngeal artery. Superior Extremity. „ The trunk common to the right carotid and subcla- vian arteries. vol. hi. A 3, 3, Thetable xxix. continues. 10, Of 3, S, The subclavian artery on the left, and1 humeral ar- tery on the right side. ’I, The radial, and, 5, The ulnar artery. 6, The superficial palmar arch, the radial part of whiclv in this figure larger than usual. ay 1, dy The median veinsw Cy The superficial ulnar vein. B, The cephalic vein. D, The basilic vein. C, The mediana longa, divided into, E, The mediana cephalica, and, F, The mediana basilica. €, e, The cephalic vein, ascending and getting between the pectoral and deltoid muscles. G, The basilic vein passing along the inner side of the arm, and terminating in the axillary vein. gy The venae concomites of the humeral artery. hy The axillary vein. iy The termination of the cephalic. A, The subclavian vein. Trunk. A, The heart, with the coronary vessels. B, The right, and, C, The left auricle. D, E, The pulmonory blood-vessels. F, The arch of the aorta. G, The aorta descendens. 7, The origin of the diaphragmatic, 8, Of the coeliac, 9, Of the superior mesenteric,I1 A B L E XXIX. CONTINUED. 10, Of the spermatic, and, 11, Of the inferior mesenteric arteries. 12, The division of the aorta into the two common iliac3. 13, The sacra media, passing behind the intestinum rectum. 14, 14, The common iliac arteries. H, H, The external iliacs. 15, 15, The internal iliacs. I, The vena cava superior. K, The vena cava inferior. Z-, The termination of one of the internal mammary veins. L, M, The great subclavian veins, the left longer than the right. N, The termination of the hepatic veins. O, O, The renal veins, with their corresponding arteries, P, P, The spermatic veins. Q, Q, The common iliac veins. Qa, Qa, The external iliac veins. R, R, The internal iliac veins. 19, The vena magna penis, forming a plexus of veins at the neck of the bladder.—At the sides of the vein the arteries appear. S, S, &c. The intercostal vessels. Inferior Extremity. A, A, The femoral arteries, the left one cut, 16, The circumflexa externa. 17, The profunda femoris. 18, The circumflexa interna. a, The vena saphena major. The femoral vein. a 2 FIG,TABLE XXIX. continued. FIG. 2. 20, The continuation of the femoral artery. 21, The corresponding vein. 22, The anterior tibial artery. A, A, A, The vena saphena major. A a, The beginning of the saphena minor.—Upon the foot and toes a plexus of veins appear, which termi- nates in both the saphenae.TABLE XXX. Gives a General View of the Absorbent System, after the Lymphatics and Lacteals had been in- jected with Quick-Silver, the Blood-Vessels with Wax, and the Preparation dried. ** * • .• . > A, A section of the upper end of the sternum, and of the inner end of the clavicles, which are turned up. B, B, The internal jugular veins, between which are represented the muscles, fat, &c. which cover the trachea. C, The cavity of the right side of the thorax. D, The pericardium cut. E, The heart. F, F, The convex surface of the diaphragm. G, G, A flap formed by the integuments and abdomi- nal muscles turned up. H, Part of the liver. I, The stomach and part of the colon shrivelled. K, K, The descending aorta. L, The right common iliac artery. M, M, The inferior vena cava. N, N, The mesentery and small intestines collected into folds, and turned to the left side. O, The cavity of the pelvis. P, The pubes. Q, R, The spermatic cord and testicle. S, S, S, The inguinal glands distended with quick-sil- ver, and in part assuming a cellular appearance. T, T, Branches of the vena saphena major. a °j Absorbents.' TABLE XXX. CONTINUED. Absorbents. The course of many of the absorbents represented in this figure is so obvious, as to supersede the necessity of letters; viz. Those upon the upper part of the feet, which take their origin from the toes. Trunks behind the inner ankles, which ascend from the soles. Lymphatics from the outside of the feet and ankles, running across the under part of the tibia;, to the in- side of the legs. The principal lymphatics of the legs, running near the great venae saphenae. Lymphatic trunks, going obliquely across the uppci part of the tibiae, to the inside of the legs. The course of the principal lymphatics of the legs, run- ning at the inner side of the knees. A trunk from the inside of the right knee. The principal lymphatics from the legs, passing along the inside of the thighs. An irregular plexus formed by the lymphatics, in their course along the inside of the limbs in general. The inguinal glands, receiving the lymphatics from the inside of the thighs, &c. In the Right Side :—The inguinal glands, receiving lym- phatics which run in a radiated manner from the fore part of the thigh upwards and inw'ards,—from the outer part of the pelvis inwards, and—from the under end of the superficial parts of the abdomen downwards. Upon the Right Side of the Dorsum l’enis ;—Two Lym- phatic trunks, one of which, at the pubes, splits into branches,TABLE XXX. continued. branches, which terminate partly in the uppermost, and partly in the innermost inguinal glands. I .A few of many lymphatics injected from the testicle, passing along the spermatic cord. iAt the Right Side of the Pelvis The iliac plexus of lymphatics, formed by trunks which ascend, some of them from the inguinal glands, behind Poupart’s Li- gament, others from the spermatic cord, through the abdominal ring, and some from the contents of the pelvis, along with the iliac blood-vessels. At the Bifurcation of the Aorta:—Lymphatics which come up from the surface of the os sacrum. At the Sides of the Inferior Cava, and over the Aorta :— The vessels and glands which form the lumbar plexus. Upon the Mesentery :—A few of many injected lacteals, directing their course towards the beginning of the thoracic duct. U, Trunks descending from the under part of the liver, and from other viscera situated at the upper part of the abdomen, meeting with the lacteals and lumbar plexus, and terminatiug at this place in the thoracic duct. V, A very large lymphatic gland upon the convex sur- face of the diaphragm, appearing as if formed of con- voluted branches. Large lymphatic vessels entering this gland, which per- forate the diaphragm from the right side of the liver. W, W, Lymphatics and glands placed at the under end of the anterior mediastinum, the vessels passing from the ligamentum hepatis latum, through the fore and middle part of the diaphragm. X, X, &c. The anterior thoracic plexus of lymphatic ves- sels and glands, which accompany the internal mam- mary blood-vessels, receiving the lymphatics from the a •! convexi ABLE XXX. continued. convex part of the liver and diaphragm ; the lympha- tics of the right plexus running to the right general termination of the absorbent system, and those of the left plexus to the upper end of the thoracic duct. A. lymphatic trunk from the mamma and adjacent parts of the thorax, entering glands near the axilla. Upon the Superior Extremities:—An extensive plexus formed by the superficial lymphatics, which pass from the anterior side of the extremity upwards, and receive many branches which ascend in an oblique direction, from the opposite sides of the arm. At the Axillm :—The lymphatics of the superior extre- mities entering the axillary glands. a, a, Principal trunks proceeding from the glands of the axillae. I, The principal trunk of the left arm, terminating along with the thoracic duct. c, The thoracic duct receiving a lymphatic belonging to the heck, and terminating in the angle formed by the left internal jugular, and left subclavian veins. In the Right Side of the Neck :—Some of the lymphatic vessels and glands which form the jugular plexus. d, The general termination of the lymphatic vessels of the right side of the head and neck, right arm, &c, in the angle formed by the right internal jugular, and right subclavian veins. N. B. A much greater number of Absorbents were in- jected in the Preparation from which this Figure was taken, than,are here represented,—none having been drawn ex- cepting what could be distinctly seen, after the Prepara- tion had been kept a considerable time in the dried state, and, oj course, many lymphatics so shrivelled as not te> ■admit oj accurate delineation.TABLE XXXI. A View of the Base of the Brain, and Trunks of its Principal Arteries, with the Origin of the Nerves which go through the Cranium.—The Arteries are lettered on the one side, and the Nerves on the other, A, A, The anterior lobes of the brain. B, The division of the anterior lobes. C, C, The lateral lobes. D, D, The posterior lobes. E, The infundibulum, supported upon the union of the optic nerves. F, The corpora albicantia. G, G, H, H, The cerebellum. G, G, Its superior an- terior lobules. I, The tuber annulare. K, The medulla oblongata, and beginning of the spinal marrow. a, A section of the internal carotid artery, after it has entered the cranium. l>, The anterior branch of the internal carotid, approach- ing its fellow of the opposite side. c, A cross branch, by which the two anterior branches communicate. d, The lateral branch of the internal carotid, disappear- . ing in the fossa of Sylvius. •f. The branch by which the internal carotid communi- cates with a branch of the basilar artery, to form a part of the circle of Willis. /, TheTABLE XXXI. continued. fy The vertebral artery, sending branches to the cere- bellum and spinal marrow. g, The basilar artery, formed by the union of the verte- bral arteries, and sending branches to the tuber annu- lare, and a large branch on each side to the cerebel- lum. hy The division of the basilar artery into four branches ; the two posterior going chiefly to the cerebellum, and the two anterior, after communicating with the inter- nal carotids, dispersed upon the brain. iy The olfactory, or first pair of nerves, having different roots behind, and a bulbous extremity before. Jcy The optic nerve, united before the infundibulum to its fellow of the other side. ly The third pair. m, The fourth pair. Vy The fifth pair, formed of fasciculi. Oy The sixth pair. p, The seventh pair, composed of the portio dura be- fore, and the portio molli6 behind; with some small communicating threads between them. y, The eighth pair, formed before of the nervus glosso- pharyngeus, and behind of the par vagum, composed of small fasciculi. r, The ninth pair, arising in fasciculi. ty The accessory nerve of the eighth pair.TABLE XXXII. B, The Views of the Spinal Marrow. FIG. 1. Presents a Posterior View of the Production of the Dura Mater, investing the Spinal Marrow mid its Nerves ; together with the Direction, Situation, and. proportional Size,v of the Vertebral Nerves in the Specus of the Spine. A, A portion of the first vertebra, and the processus dentatus of the second. B, B, The covering of the spinal marrow, produced from the dura mater, continued from the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the middle of the os sacrum. C, A ligament continued from the spinal marrow to the os coccygis. P, A section of the spinal marrow at its origin. On each side of the spinal marrow are seen the thirty pair of spinal nerves with their ganglia, also covered with the dura mater. FIG. 2. Gives a Posterior View of Part of the Medulla Oblon- gata, and the whole of the Spinal Marrow produced from it, lying in its natural Situation within the Sheath of the Vertebra, which is concealed by the Sheath of the Dura Mater being laid open longitudinally, and pinned baclct' A, A, Portions of the os petrosum and os occipitis, co- vered with the dura mater.TABLE XXXII. CONTINUED. B, The vermiform process of the cerebellum. C, C, Part of the medulla oblongata. D, The calamus scriptorius, in the bottom of the fourth ventricle. E, The beginning of the spinal marrow. F, The termination of the spinal marrow in two little eminences. G, A ligament running from the under end of the spinal marrow, through the dura mater, to be fixed to the os coccygis. H, II, See. The dura mater, cut and pinned back. I, I, The seventh pair of nerves. K, K, The eighth pair. L, L, The nervus accessorius, arising by different roots from the upper end of the spinal marrow. M, M, The ninth pair of nerves. N, The upper end of the ligamentum denticulatum of this side, adhering to the dura mater. In the inter- stices of thq spinal nerves the teeth of this ligament are seen inserted into the dura mater, as far as the tinder end of the spinal marrow. O, The under part of the spinal marrow, sending off the nerves which form the cauda equina. P, P, &c. The posterior origins of the thirty pair of spinal nerves, and their situation within the dura ma- ter ; together with the appearance of the filaments which form them. FIG.TABLE XXXII. continued. FIG. 3. Represents a Portion of the Spinau Marrow, taken from the Upper Part of the Back,—viewed anteriorly. A, A ligament produced from the pia mater, inserted into the medullary substance. B, B, The anterior origins of the spinal nerves, formed of fasciculi of filaments. C, A section of the spinal marrow, shewing the medul- lary circumference and crucial figure of the cineri- tious centre.TABLE XXXIIJ. c, The Represents the Blood-Vessels and Nerves seen on the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity. The Figures belong to the Right Side. FIG. 1. The Arm of a Young Subject, \with the Arteries inject- ed, and the Muscles dried. Muscles. A, The deltoid. B, The pectoralis major. C, The coraco-brachialis. D, The biceps. E, The triceps. F, The supinator longus. G, The extensores carpi radiales. IT, The pronator teres. I, The flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus pulled towards the radius. K, The flexor digitorum sublimis and profundus drawn towards the ulna. L, The flexor carpi ulnaris. M, The pronator radii quadratus. N, The ligamentum carpi annulare. Arteries. a, The axillary artery. b, The scapularis interna.TABLE XXXIII. continued. The dorsalis scapulae inferior, turning round the un- der edge of the scapula. ft, The circumflexa anterior. The circumfiexa posterior. J\f, The trunk of the humeral artery, sending branches to the biceps and other muscles on the arm. The profunda, or spiralis. h, The profunda minor. The ramus anastomoticus magnus. /;, The division of the humeral artery into radial and ulnar arteries. /, The radial artery, sending numerous branches to the muscles next the radius. vt, The recurrent branch of the radial artery. u, The under end of the radial artery, after giving off the superficial volar branch, turning between the me- tacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, to form, o, The deep arch of the palm. j.?, The ulnar artery, pulled a little towards the inner side of the arm, to shew the branches it sends to the corresponding muscles. 7, The superficial palmar arch, formed by the ulnar artery. r. The deep palmar branch of the ulnar artery, anasto- mosing with the arcus profundus of the radial artery, behind the tendons of the flexors of the fingers. s, A branch to the inner side of the little finger. i, t, t. The three large digital branches of the ulnar ar- tery, sending branches to the fingers. v, A branch from the conjoined radial and ulnar arteries 10 the radial side of the fore-finger. v, ATABLE XXXIII. continued. i>, A similar branch from these arteries to the thumb. la, Another branch to the thumb from the ulnar artery. FIG. 2. Represents the First Layer of Muscles, Kith the Subcu- faneous Blood-Vessels and Nerves of the Superior Extremity. A, The pectoralis major. B, The deltoides covered with cellular membrane, C9 The latissimus dorsi, D, Part of the intercostales. E, The biceps flexor cubiti. F, The round tendon of the biceps, with its aponeuro- sis extending to the inside of the fore arnj. G, The coraco-brachialis. H, The triceps extensor cubiti. I, The pronator teres. K, The supinator radii longus. L, The flexor carpi radialis, and, M, The palmaris longus, lying over the flexor digito- rum sublimis. N, The flexor carpi ulnaris. O, The ligamentum carpi annulare. P, The abductor pollicis. Q, The abductor minimi digiti. It, The flexor parvus minimi digiti, S, The adductor pollicis. T, The abductor indicis. Upon the palm of the hand, and corresponding side of the fingers, the tendons of the flexores digitorum ap- yOL. in. B pear,TABLE XXXIII. continue^ pear, with the lumbricalea, and part of the sheath- of the tendons. Blood-Vessels. a, The brachial artery, appearing near the inner edge ot the tendon of the biceps, where it ma}' always be felt. by b. Superficial radial veins passing to the cephalic vein. Cy c, Superficial ulnar veins running to the basilic. dy The medians longa. ty The medians cephalica. fyfy Two median basilic veins, found in the subject the figure was taken from. gy The vena cephalica. liy The basilica. iy i, Deep humeral vein accompanying the artery. Nerves. by The musculo-cutaneus. I, The trunk of this nerve getting from behind the bi- ceps, and dividing into branches, which extend along the fore arm as far as the wrist. my my The trunk of the radialis, covering part of the humeral artery. 7iy The cutaneus. Oy 0, The branches of the cutaneus passing partly over, and partly under, the cutaneous veins, some of its twigs proceeding as far as the wrist. jpy py Branches of that nerve to the inner and back part of the fore-arm. <7, The ulnaris. r, A branch from the second intercostal nerve. 3, A branch of that nerve to the inner side of the arm. t, AnotherTABLE XXXIIL CONTINUED. ?, Another branch of that nerve which gives branches to the mamma. u, The volar branch of the spiral nerve running to the muscles of the thumb. v, The trunk of the radial nerve, passing under the an- nular ligament of the wrist, and afterwards sending two branches to the thumb, two to the fore-finger, and onfc branch to the radial side of the ring-finger. ta, The trunk of the ulnar nerve, sending branches to the inner side of the palm, and afterwards two branches to the little finger, and one to the ulnar side of the ring-finger. FIG. 3. Skews the Brachial Plexus of Nerves, and the Union of the Intercostals with the Great Sympathetic Nerve. Muscles. A, The scalenus anticus. B, The scalenus medius. C, The scalenus posticus, D, D, The intercostales. E, E, The longus colli. F, The subscapularis. G, The teres major. H, The latissimus dorsi. I, The supra-spinatus. K, The long head, and, L, The short head of the biceps, M, The coraco-brachialis. N, The long, and, O, The short head of the triceps, B 2 Nerves,T ABLE XXXIII. continued. Neiives. a, a, The trunk and middle cervical ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, with its connection to the cervical nerves. b, The inferior cervical, and first dorsal ganglia, of the great sympathetic nerve, conjoined in this figure. c, The trunk of the great sympathetic nerve within the thorax, with its connections to the intercostals. d, The trunk of the fifth intercostal nerve. e, The trunk of the phrenic nerve, which is here turned aside, arising from, or connected with, the third and fourth cervicals. f, The fourth, g, The fifth, h, The sixth, and, i, The seventh cervical nerve. h, The first dorsal nerve, joined to the seventh cervical. From the four inferior cervical nerves and first dorsal, the axillary plexus is formed, which sends off the fol- lowing nerves to the superior extremity, viz. l, The scapularis. m, The articularis. 7i, The cut trunk of the cutaneus. o, o, The musculo-cutaneus, perforating the coraco-bra- chialis muscle. p, The spiralis. q, The radialis cut across. r, The ulnaris also cut across. s, A branch to the teres major and latissimus dor«L (TABLE XXXIV. CONTINUED. V, The tibia. MT, The solcus. X, The anterior tibial artery. Nerves. fly A branch of the first lumbar nerve. by A branch of the second lumbar nerve. fy The external cutaneous nerve. dy The crural nerve, with its division into the branches which supply the muscles on the fore part of the thigh. r, e, Thenervus saphenus, sent from the crural nerve to the inner parts of the leg. fy The anterior portion of the obturator nerve. ", Branches of the crural nerve, terminating upon the knee. hy The trunk of the fibular nerve. iy The superficial fibular nerve. Icy The deep fibular nerve. /, A branch of the tibial nerve to the outer part of the foot. FIG. 2. The Principal Muscular Nerves, seen in the Bach Part of the Inferior' Extremity. Muscles and Arteries. A, B, The gluteus maximus. B, Part of the muscle cut from its origin, and turned aside. C, The gluteus medius. D, The vastus externus. F/, The obturator internus. F, TheTABLE XXXIV. continued. F, The biceps cruris. G, H, Sections of the semi-tendinosus. Contiguous tq G, is a section of the long head of the biceps cruris. I, The semi-membranosus. K, The adductor magnus femoris. L, The gracilis. M, M, The two heads of the gastrocnemius externus. N, The tendo Achillis. O, The popliteus. P, The flexor longus digitorum pedis. Q, The flexor longus pollicis pedis. K, The peroneus longus. S, The peroneus bi'evis. T, The tibialis posticus. U, The crural artery. V, The posterior tibial artery. Nerves. a, The posterior superior cutaneous nerve. by The sciatic nerve, passing out of the cavity of the pelvis. Cy The trunk of this nerve, sending branches to the muscles in the back part of the thigh. dy The division of the sciatic nerve into, e, The tibial nerve, and, fy The fibular nerve. g, The fibular nerve, dividing into the superficial and deep fibular nerves. hy The tibial nerve, sending branches to the muscles in the upper and back part of the leg. iy The tibial nerve passing to the sole. FIG.TABLE XXXIV. continued. FIG. 3. a, The division of the tibial nerve into external and in- ternal plantar nerves, and these again into several branches. b, The internal plantar artery. c, The external plantar artery. d, The arcb formed by the external plantar artery.Abdomen, (abdere, to hide), the lower venter ol* belly, containing or hiding the Intestines, &c. ACANTHA, (a.K*?a, to sharpen), sometimes used for the spine. ACETABULUM, (acetum, vinegar), the socket for the head of the thigh-bone, resembling an ancient vi- negar-cruet. ACINI, (acinus, a grape), the intei'nal structure of se- veral glands. ACROMION, a?, the extremity, and *>nos, the shoulder), a process of the scapula. ADENOLOGY, (^k, a gland, and A«yo?, a discourse), the doctrine of the glands. ADNATA, (adnascor, to grow to), the external coat of the eye. ALLANTOIS, (*aaus, a gut, and shape), a mem- brane which envelopes the foetal quadruped. ALVEOLI, (dim. of alveus, a conduit-pipe, or the cells of a bee-hive), the sockets for the teeth. AMNIOS, or AMNION, a vessel used by the ancients to receive the blood in sacrifices, uuvds, a lamb’s23‘t GLOSSARY. / Iamb’s skin), the soft membrane immediately sur» rounding the foetus. AMPHYARTHROSIS, (xutp&i, both, and c«g^«y, ar- ticulation), an articulation admitting of an obscure motion. ANASTOMOSIS, (<*>&>, through, «rop*, a mouth), the communication of vessels with one another. ANATOMY, through, and t-mu, to cut), dissec- tion, or that knowledge of animal bodies acquired by dissection. ANCON, (ccyKw», the elbow, from xy>tcc£o(Mit to embrace)^ because the bones, being there united, are folded one into another. Hence also, ANCONEUS, a muscle situated there, and, AN CONOID, a process of the cubit, (from the elbow, and shape). ANGIOLOGY, (*yys<ov, a vessel, and Aay«;, a discourse), a description of the vessels. ANTAGONIST, (am, against, and *y*>r, to struggle), an epithet of a muscle acting contrary to another. ANTI HELIX, (*vt<, against, and ei*«, to turn about), the external part of the ear opposite to the helix. ANTITHENOR, (<*m, against, and the palm of the hand), one of the muscles extending the thumb. ANTITRAGUS, Uvn, against, and r^.y«;, a goat), & prominence of the ear opposite to the tragus. ANTRUM, a cavitv. 9 V • ANUS, (a contraction of Annulus, a little ring), the extremity of the rectum, so called from its circular* fibres. AORTA,GLOSSARY. 235 AORTA, (xo£th, a vessel), the great artery of the heart. APONEUROSIS, (xvo, from, and vsv§«v, a nerve), a tendinous expansion, supposed by the ancients to be that of a nerve. APOPHYSIS, («iraipt/*>, to spring from), the process of a bone, and a part of the same bone. EPIPHYSIS, a process attached to a bone, but not a part of the same bone. ARACHNOIDES, a spider, and s<2«s, likeness), a cobweb-like membrane, one of the coats of the brain and eye. AREOLA, (dim. of area, a void space). ARTERIA, (*>;?, air, and rngu, to keep), because the ancients thought that only air was contained in the arteries. ARTHRODIA, a joint), that kind of articu- lation which is shallow. ARYTENOIDES, an ewer, and shape), two cartilages of the larynx. ASPERA ARTERIA, (asper, rough, and artcria, an artery or duct), the trachea or wind-pipe. ASTRAGALUS, (««-§ay<*Ao;, a die), a bone of the tar- sus resembling an ancient die. ATLAS, («rhnu, to sustain), the first of the cervical vertebra;, so named from supporting the head, as Atlas was supposed to support the world. AZAGOS, («, priv. and £vye,-, a yoke), a term applied to any part not having a corresponding part. \ BASILICA,236 G LOSS A R Y. R BASILICA, (punMv;, a king), an epithet, by way of eminence, given to one of the veins of the arm. BICEPS, (bis, twice, and caput, a head), composed of two heads. BRACHIUM, (fyaxus, short), because, in general, from the shoulder to the hand is shorter than from the hip to the foot. BREGMA, to moisten), the opening in the course of the sagittal suture, found in the heads of new-born children. BRONCHIA, (fyoywit the throat), the ramifications of the trachea. BUCCINATOR, (a trumpeter), a muscle of the cheek, much used by trumpeters. BURSALOGY, a purse, and a discourse), a description of the bursae mucosa.*. C CALCANEUS, {calx, the heel), a name of the o* calcis. CALVARIA, or CALVA, (calvus, bald), the upper part of the cranium, which turns first bald. CANCELLI, (lcttice-work), the reticular substance in bones. CAPILLARY VESSELS, (capillus, a little hair), the small ramification of the arteries. CAPUT GALLINAGINIS, (a wood-cock’s head), a little eminence at the termination of the seminal vessels of the penis. CARDIA,c. L O S S A R Y. 237 jCARDIA, (xxefiiot, the heart), the superior opening of the stomach, so called from being situated near the heart. CAROTID, (xxgoai, to induce sleep), arteries of the head and neck, which if tied, the animal becomes i comatose, or has the appearance of being asleep. CARPUS, (), the wrist. CARTILAGE, a matter softer than bone, but harder than ligament. CARUNCULA, (dim. of caro, flesh.) CEPHALIC VEIN, the head), the ancients being accustomed to open this vein in disorders of the head. CERATO-GLOSSUS, (*£§*?, a horn, and yAarc-as, a tongue), a muscle running from one of the cornua of the os hyoides to the tongue. CEREBELLUM, dim. of CEREBRUM, the brain, (x-xp, the head). CERVIX, the hinder part of the neck, the fore part being called COLLUM. CHIRURGERY, (#<£, the hand, and *gy#», work), the profession of a surgeon. CHOLEDOCHUS DUCTUS, bile, and to l'eceive), the common bile-duct. CHORION, (£*giav, domicilium), the outer membrane Involving the foetus ; or a chorus, this mem- brane being supplied with many blood-vessels in the quadruped. CLIOROIDES, so called on account of its many blood- vessels, resembling the Chorion. CHYLO-23* GLOSSARY. CHYLOPOIETIC, (%vx<>iy chyle, and man, to make), producing chyle. CLA\ ICULA, (dim. ol clavisy a key), the clavicle or collar-bone; so called from its resemblance to an ancient key. CLEIDO-MAS TOIDEUS, (xAeiJ^oc, the clavicle, and puroi^xie;), the mastoid process. CL1NOID, a bed, and shape), processes of the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, so called from their resemblance to a couch. CLITORIS, (kMiu, to conceal), a part of the female pudendum concealed by the labia majora. COCCYX, (*«**«'£, a cuckoo), the lower end of the spina dorsi, so called from its resemblance to tl>c ■beak of that bird. CCELIACA, (x.otXicty the belly), the name of an artery in the abdomen. COLON, (*oiAoj, hollow), the first of the large intes- tines. CONDYLE, (*«»3wAo;, a joint, a knuckle, a knot), an eminence in several of the joints. CONGLOBATE, (conglobatus, gathered together in a circle), a gland subsisting by itself, like those of the absorbent system. CONGLOMERATE, (cojiglomeratus, heaped toge- ther), a gland composed of smaller glands. CORACO, names compounded of this word belong to muscles which are attached to the coracoid process of the scapula. COR ACOID, a crow, and £i3of, resemblance), like the beak of a crow. CORNUGLOSSARY. 239 CORNU AMMONIS, Ammon or Jupiter’s horn. CORONARY, (corona, a crown), vessels so called from surrounding the parts like a crown. CORONOID, a crow, and «S«s, shape), a pro- cess shaped like a crow’s beak. CORPUS CALLOSUM, (corpus, a body, and callus, hard), part of the medullary substance of the brain, supposed to be firmer than the rest. CORTICALIS SUBSTANTIA, (cortex, bark), tlw cortical substance of the brain. COSTJE, (custodio, to guard), the ribs, because they guard the heart. COTYLOID, (jcotv*jj, an old measure, and alts, slmpe), the cavity for receiving the head of the thigh-bone being compared to it. CRANIUM, the skull, from x*p«, the head.) CREMASTER, (, to suspend), a muscle so call- ed, because it suspends the testicle. CRIBRIFORM, (cribrum, a sieve), perforated like a sieve. CRICOID, (xfixoj, a ring, and eiS«?, shape), annular. CRISTA GALLI, a portion of the ethmoid bone, so called from its resemblance to a cock’s comb. CROTOPHITE, (x^TscipAj, the temple), the temporal muscle. CRURA, (crus, a leg), applied to some parts, from their resemblance to a leg or root. CURITIS, (a cubando), that part of the arm from the elbow to the wrist; because the ancients, during jiieaU, used to recline upon it. CUBOIDES,240 GLOSSARY. CUBOIDES, (*v3of, a cube, and «?«?, shape), a bone of the foot resembling a cube. CUCULLAR1S, (cuculltis, a cowl or hood.), a muscle on the back, so named from its shape. CUN El r ORM, (cuncus, a wedge), wedge-shaped. CU riCULA, (dim. ot cutiSy the skin), the scarf- skin. CUTIS, the skin. CYSTIC US DUCTUS, (xvrr <«, a bladder, dvctusy a duct), the duct leading from the gall-bladder. D DARTOS, to excoriate), an imaginary muscle of the scrotum. DELTOID, (AiXr«y the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet, and shape), resembling the Greek letter A. DIAPHRAGM, to divide), the transverse muscle which separates the thorax from the abdo- men. DIASTOLE, (dixcrrtMuy to send through), the dila- tation of the heart, auricles, and arteries, oppos- ed to SYSTOLE, the contraction of the same parts. DIARTHROSIS, to articulate), a moveable connection of bones. DIGASTRIC, (^s, twice, and a belly), having two bellies. DIPLOE, to double), the spongy substance between the two tables of the skull. DODE- 424; 1 GLOSSARY. DODECADACTYLON, twelve, and oxoi, fingers), a name of the DUODENUM, (duodcmiSf consisting of twelve, viz. inches), the first portion of the small intestines, so called from its general length. DURA MATER, (durus, hard, and mater y a mo- ther), the outermost membrane of the brain ; the ancients finding this harder than, and supposing it to give origin to, the other membranes of the body. E. EMBRYO, iu, to sprout out), the child in the womb, before the fourth month, after which it is called foetus. EMULGENTS, (emulgo, to milk out), the arteries and veins of the kidneys, so called because, ac- cording to the ancients, they strained, and, as it were, milked the serum through the kidneys. EMUNCTORES, (emungo, to wipe away), glands which, according to the ancients, received the ex- crementitious matter from the noble parts, as the parotids from the brain, the axillary glands from the heart, and inguinal glands from the liver. ENARTHllOSIS, (», in, and a joint), an arti- culation of bones, the same as Arthrosis. ENCEPHALON, (iyx.i<pa\o<;} the brain, from iv, within, • and KtifuXiiy the head). ENTERIC, (tmge», an intestine), belonging to the in- testines. Vol. III. Q EPIDERMIS,GLOSSARY. EPIDERMIS, («*■<, upon, and the skin), the scarf-skin. EPIDID\ MIS, (»*•<, upon, and twins, the tc&- tides), the small oblong body which lies above the testicle. EPIGASTRIC, (i*t, upon, and yao-m*, the belly), the superior part of the abdomen. EPIGLOTTIS, («n, upon, and y^«rr<«, the tongue), one of the five cartilages of the larynx, situated upon the glottis. EPIPHIPPIUM, (t<pi9T3-<of, a saddle), part of the os sphenoides, so called from its resemblance to a saddle. EPIPHYSIS, (w, upon, and <?v«, to grow), sec APO- PHYSIS. EPIPLOON, (en, upon, and nMv, to sail), the omen- tum, or that membranous viscus of the abdomen, which covers the intestines, and hangs from the bottom of the stomach. EPISTROPHiEUS, («T«rr§«to turn about), the second cervical vertebra,—the head being turned upon it. ESOP.HAGUS, (««, to carry, y«, to eat), the canal leading from the pharynx to the stomach, carrying what is swallowed into the stomach. ETHMOID, (, a sieve), so called because it is perforated like a sieve. EXCRETORY, (from excerno, to separate from). F.GLOSSARY. 243 F. FALCIFORM, (falx, a scythe), shaped like a scythe. FASCIA, (fascis, a bundle), an expansion of a muscle, inclosing others like a band. FAUCES, (the plural of fauxJ, the^top of the throat. FIBULA, (a clasp), the lesser bone of the leg, which is thus named from being placed opposite to the part where the knee-buckle or clasp was formerly used. FCETUS, the child ini the'womb, past the third month, and fully formed. FONTANELLA, (dim. of FONS), the opening of the head. G. GALACTOPIIEROUS, (ymilk, and to carry), conveying the milk. GANGLION, a knot in the course of a nerve. GASTROCNEMIUS, (yutrrn^, the belly, and the leg), the muscle forming the thick of the leg. GASTRO-EP1PLOIC, (yacr-n^, the stomach, and f?r<7rAofi», the caul), belonging to the stomach and omentum. GEMELLUS, (dim. of GEMINUS, double). GENIO, (ywiM, the chin), names compounded with this word belong to the muscle attached to the chin. GINGLYMUS, (y<ya hinge), articulation ad- mitting flexion and extension. Q2 $ GLANDULA,214> glossary. GLANDULA, (dim. of GLANS, a nut). GLENOID, (yA*uo, a cavity), a part having a shallow cavity. GLOMEIl, a convoluted bundle of glands. GLOSSO, {yXna-u-a,, the tongue), names compounded with this word are applied to muscles attached to the tongue. GLOTTIS, (yXft»rr«, the tongue), the superior opening of the larynx at the root of the tongue. GLUTEUS, (yA*T«i, the buttock), muscles forming part of the buttocks. GOMPHOS1S, (ye^o*', to drive in a nail), an articu- lation of bones, like a nail in a piece of wood. II. HARMONIA, (dgffrom «§«, to fit together), a species of immoveable articulation. HAEMORRHOIDAL, (*<ft«, andg««, to flow), belong- ing to the piles. HELIX, (ua», to turn about), the outer bar or margin of the external ear. HIPPOCAMPUS, the sea-horse, a small fish. HYALOID, (u"*A6j, glass, and likeness), the cap- sule of the vitreous humour of the eye, so called from its glassy appearance. HYMEN, (the god of marriage), the membrane situa- ted at the entrance of the virgin vagina. HYO, names compounded with this word belong to muscles which are attached to the IIYOIDES, OS, («, and u$«s, shape), a bone of the tongue resembling the Greek v (upsilon). HYPO-*G L O S S A R Y. 24-5 / HYPOCHONDRIUM, («*•«, under, and a car- tilage), the upper part of the abdomen, next the cartilages of the ribs. HYPOGASTRIC, (i*™, under, and ythe belly), the lower region of the fore part of the abdomen. IIYPOGLOSSIS, (vto, under, and yAwro-**, the tongue), parts which lie under the tongue, called also Raim- laris. TIYPOTHENAR, (i™, under, and the palm of the hand), one of the muscles contracting the thumb. I. JEJUNUM, (empty), one of the intestines, so called from its generally being found empty. ILEUM, . to turn), a portion of the small intes- tines, so called from being found convoluted. INCISORES, (incidere, to cut), the fore-teeth. INCUS, (an anvil), a small bone of the internal car, with which the malleus is articulated. INDEX, (indico, to point out), the fore-finger. INNOMINATUM, parts which have no proper name. 1NTERFEMINEUM, vide PERINEUM. IRIS, (the rainbow), the circle round the pupil of the eye, deriving its name from its various colours. ISCHIUM, {‘ex,™, to support), that part of the os in- nominatum upon which we sit, or ‘ryjo?, the hip. JTJGALE OS, the zygoma. Q 3 L. i246 GLOSSARY, L. LACUNiE, (little cavities), the excretory ducts of the urethra and vagina, &c. LAMBDOIDAL, resembling the Greek A (lambda). LAMINA, a scale or plate. It is used for the tables of the skull. LARYNX, (Aagvy!), the superior part of the trachea. L1NEA ALBA, a white line formed by the meeting of the tendons of the abdominal muscles. LUMBRICALLS, (lumbricus, a worm), four muscles of hand and foot. M. MALLEOLUS, (dim. of malleus), a mallet. MAMMA, (ftitupx, a mother), the breast or nipple. MASSE I KK, (w«<r<n!T(}£, from ftxcrxxouxi, to chew), a muscle which assists in chewing. MASTOID, (pxa-Tos, a breast), shaped like a nipple or breast. MAXILLA, (pxc-o-xa), to chew), thejaw'. MEATUS, (from mec, to pass), a passage. MEDIANA VENA, the middle vein of the arm, be- tween the basilic and cephalic. MEDIASTINUM, (medium, the middle), the produc- tion of the pleura, which divides the thorax into two cavities. MEDIASTINUM CEREBRI, va process of the dura mater, which lies between the two hemispheres of the brain. MENINGES, (piv<yi, a membrane), the dura and pia mater. MESENTERY, (mw, the middle, and smgo*, the in- testine),247 GLOSSARY. testine), the membrane in the middle of the intes- tines, by which they are attached. "MESERAIC, (/ttec-oy, the middle, and the belly), the same as the last article. MESO-COLON, (ptros, the middle, and koXcv, the co- lon), that part of the mesentery in the middle of the colon. METACARPUS, (pirx, after, and ..-cags-e?, the wrist), that part of the hand between the carpus and fingers. METATARSUS, (^T«, after, and the tarsus), that part of the foot between the tarsus and toes. MITRAL1S VALVULA, imitra, a mitre), valves at the left ventricle of the heart, like a mitre. MODIOLUS, (dim. of modius, a measure). MUSCULUS, (pv&n, from ftuw, to move, or a dim. of mus, a mouse), from its resemblance to a flayed mouse. MYLO, a grinder-tooth), names compounded of this word belong to muscles that are attached near the grinders. MYOIDES PLATYSMA, a muscular expansion on the neck. See PLATYSMA. MYOLOGY, the doctrine, of the muscles. N. NAVICULARE, (navicula, a little boat), a bone of the carpus, and also of the tarsus. NEUROLOGY, (>*«£<», a nerve), the doctrine of the nerves. NYMPHiE, semicircular glandular membranes in the •pudendum muliebre, so called because they direct the course of the urine. nQ 4 0.248 GLOSSA R . O. ODONJ OIDES, («3»s, a tooth, andu3«f, sliape), tooth- like. OLECRANON, {uMvr,, the cubit, and a head), the elbow, or head of the ulna. OMENTUM, {omen, a guess), an abdominal viscus, so called because the ancient priests pretended to reveal the secrets of heaven by inspecting this viscus. OMO, the shoulder), names compounded of this word belong to muscles attached to the scapula. OMO-PLATA, {uuo',, the shoulder, and broad), the scapula or shoulder-blade. OPHTHALMIC, (e<p6x>pc;, the eye). i)RGAN, {o^ytKnt, from to labour, a member or limb. OSTEOLOGY, the doctrine of the bones. OXOID, «£uf, sharp, spinous. P. PANCREAS, (tfav, all, and flesh), a gland of the abdomen. PANN1CULUS, dim. of pamitis, cloth. PARENCHYMA, (s-^sy#*, to pour through), a sub- stance connecting the vessels, &c. of the lungs, liver, &c. PARIETALIA, (paries, a wall), bones of the cranium serving as a wall to the encepjialon. PAROTID,24-9 GLOSSARY. PAROTID, near, and arcs, the gen. of a?, the ear), a gland situated near the ear. PATELLA, (dim. of patina, a panl, the knee-pan. PATHETICA, (x-xfoi, passion), the fourth pair of nerves, because, by means of these, the eyes ex- press certain passions of the mind. PECTINEUS, .(pecten, the pubes), a muscle belong- ing to the os pubis. PELVIS, (wsAus, a bason), the bason of the kidneys, or the lower part of the abdomen, in which the bladder (and in women the uterus) and rectus are contained. PERICARDIUM, around, and **§?ias, the heart), the membrane surrounding the heart. PERICHONDRIUM, (*«§<, about, and xeyhc?> carti- lage), the membrane covering the cartilages. PERICRANIUM, (^t, around, and *$<*««y, the cra- nium), the membrane covering the bones of the cranium. PERINEUM, (*-sg<>sa, to flow round, because that part is generally moist), the space between the external parts of generation and the anus. It is sometimes called INTERFEMINEUM, {inter, between, and J'emen, the inside of the Thigh). PERIOSTEUM, (w^i, around, and omer, a bone), the membrane surrounding the bones. PERISTALTIC, (sng«s-ihXa, to contract), the motion of the intestines. PERITONEUM, (xigm<r«, to extend around), the mcihbrane lining the abdomen, and covering its viscera. PERONEUS,2o0 GLOSSARY. PERONEUS, the fibula), belonging to the fi- bula. PETROSUM OS, (vi-r^x, a rock), part of the tempo- ral bone. PHALANX, (an army), the bones of the fingers and toes are called phalanges, from their regularity. PHARYNX, to convey, because it conveys the food into the stomach), a membranous bag at the end of the mouth. PHRENIC, the diaphragm, from^nv, themind, because the diaphragm was supposed to be the scat of the mind), the name of a nerve. PHYSIOLOGY, (tpvns, nature), an account of the ac- tions and functions of an animated body. PI A MATER, the innermost membrane around the brain. PITUITARIA, pituita, phlegm. PLACENTA, a cake), the after-birth. PLANTARIS, (jolanta, the sole), parts situated in the sole. PLATYSMA MYOIDES, broad, pv**, a muscle, and shape), a muscle of the neck. PLEURA, the side), the membrane lining the cavity of the thorax. PLEXUS, (plectOy to weave together), a kind of net- work of blood-vessels or nerves. POPLITEUS, (poples, the ham), a muscle of the leg. PREPUCE, (preeputo, to cut off' before), the foreskin of the penis, which the eastern nations generally cut off. PROCESSUS,GLOSSARY. 251 PROCESSUS, (procedoy to start out), a protuberance of a bone. PROSTATAS, (^a, before, and «rr»p, to stand), glands situated before the vesiculce seminales. PSOAS, (^oce, the loin), a muscle so named from its situation. PTERYGOID, (fl-Ts§v$;, a wing), a process resembling a wing. PTERYGO-STAPHALINI, a wing, and <t*- <pvfo, the palate), muscles arising from the ptery- goid process of the os sphenoides, and inserted into the uvula. PUBES, (/3»othe groin), the private parts, or hair that grows upon them. PUDENDA, (pudor, shame), the parts of generation. PUPILLA, (a little puppet), the round aperture in the tunica uvea of the eye. PYLORUS, (TnMwgaj, the keeper of a gate), the lower orifice of the( stomach, guarding the entrance of the bowels. PYIiAMIDALIS, shaped like a pyramid. R. RADIUS, (the spoke of a wheel), the small bone of the fore-arm. RANULAR, like a frog or toad. RAPHE, *>, from j, to sew), a suture. RECTUM, the straight gut, the last of the intestines. RENES, (§£«, to flow), the kidneys, through which the urine flows. RETINA,252 GLOSSARY. RETINA, (rete, a net), the net-like expansion of the optic nerve on the inner surface of the eye. RETINACULA, (retineo, to restrain). RHOMBOIDES, a muscle so called, from resembling a geometrical figure (^u/Sos), whose sides arc equal, but not right-angled. ROTULA, (dim. of rota, a wheel), the knee pan. S. SACRUM, (sacred), a bone so called, because it was offered in sacrifice. SACCIFORM, (sacct/s, a bag or sac). SAGITTALIS, (sagitlay an arrow), a suture in the cranium. SALVATELLA, (salvo, to preserve), a vein of the hand, the opening of which was said to preserve health, and to cure melancholy. SANGUIS, (<r«av, to preserve), the blood, and yw<t, the body. SAPHENA, (<r*<pe?, manifest), a vein of the leg. SARTORIUS, (sartor, a tailor), the muscle by means of which the tailor lays his legs across. SCALENI, (c-KoiMyof, a geometrical figure with three unequal sides), muscles of the neck. SCAPHA, (a little boat), the depression of the outer ear before the antihelix. SCAPHOIDES, (resembling a boat), a bone of the carpus, and also of the tarsus. SCAPULA, the shoulder-blade. SCELETUS, (<ry,ixx», to dry), a skeleton. SCIIINDELYSIS,253 GLOSSARY. SCHINDELYSIS, fscindo, to plough or furrow). SCLEROTIC, (o-xAngo;, hard), the outermost or hard- est membrane of the eye. SCROBICULUS CORDIS, (dim. of scrobs, a ditch), the pit of the stomach. SCROTUM, (quasi scortum, a skin or hide), the cover- ing of the testicles. SCUTIFORM, shaped like a shield. SECRETION, (from secerno, to separate). SELLA TURCICA, SELLA EQUINA, SELLA SPHENOIDES, are various names for a part of the sphenoid bone resembling a Turkish saddle. SEPTUM CORDIS, (sepcs, a hedge), the fleshy sub- stance which divides the right and left ventricles of the heart. SESAMOID, (<ri'7cty.Y>i an Indian bean), small bones in the hands and feet, resembling the semen sesami. SIGMOID, resembling the Greek 5 (sigma.) SOLEUS, (solea, a sole fish). SPHENOID, (s-<p>]v, a wedge), shaped like a wedge. SPHINCTER, (e-Qiyyu, to shut up), the name of seve- ral muscles, whose office it is to shut up the aper- ture around which they are placed.- SPLANCHNOLOGY, (cr^Aoty^vov, an entrail), the doc- trine of the viscera. SPLENIUS, (spleniwn, a splint), a muscle of the neck. SQUAMOUS, (squama:, a scale), covering as the scales of fishes do each other. STAPES, (a stirrup), one of the small bones of the internal ear. STOMACH US, (mux, a mouth, and to pour), the251. GLOSS A KY. the stomach, or upper orifice of the ventricle, be- cause it sends the food to the bowels. STYLOID, (stylus, a pencil), a process like a pencil on the temporal bone. SUCCENTURIATUS, (fromsuccentario, to supply or fill up). SYMPHYSIS, (<ryp<py*r, to draw together), the connec- tion of bones which have no manifest motion. SYNARTHROSIS, (<™*, with, and a joint), ar- ticulation without manifest motion. SYNCHONDROSIS, («■&», with, and a carti- lage), articulation by means of intervening carti- lage. SYNDESMOLOGY, (®-whspc}, a ligament), the doc- trine of ligaments. SY'NDESMOSIS, the connection of bones by liga- ments. SY NEUROSIS, (<rw», with, and »£yg«», a nerve), the connection of bones by tendon, formerly mistaken for nerve. SY’NOYYA, a term of no radical meaning, coined by Paracelsus, the secretion of the joints. SYNTHESIS, (rvvTi6v>ftit to put together), the anatomi- cal connection of the bones of the skeleton. SY'SSARCOSIS, (b-vv, with, and flesh), the con- nection of bones by muscle. SYSTOLE, (<Tua-nxxai, to contract), vide DIASTOLE, T. TALUS, (a die), a bone of the heel. TAPETUM, tapes, tapestry. TARSUS.255 GLOSSARY. TARSUS, the space between the bones of the leg and the metatarsus, corresponding with the wrist. TARSUS, (t«c£ito;), the cartilaginous edge of the eye- lids ; also the part of the foot corresponding with the wrist. TENDON, (teiiw, to extend), the extremity of a muscle. TERES, (round), the name of a muscle. TESTIS, (a witness, quia est quad testis virilitatis the testicle. THALAMUS, a bed). THECA, (a sheath), the spinal canal is sometimes called Theca Vertebralis. THENAR, (the palm of the hand), a muscle extend- ing the thumb. THORAX, (0ito leap), the chest in which the heart leaps or beats. THYMUS, (thymus, thyme), a gland in the thorax. THYRO, names compounded with this word belong to muscles which are attached to the THYROID, (0vg«s, a shield), cartilage shaped like a shield. TIBIA, (a pipe), the great bone of the leg. TONSIL, the round glands placed between the arches of the palate. TRACHEA, (t£x%vs, rough), the wind-pipe. TRACHELO-MA STOl D EU S, belonging to (r^j^es) the neck, and the mastoid process. TRAGUS, (a goat), a small eminence of the external ear, upon which hair often grows like the beard of a goat. TRAPEZOID,GLOSSARY. TRAPEZOID, (t^ows^io*, a four-sided figure), like a trapezium. TRICEPS, (from trcs and caputJ, a muscle with three heads. TROCHANTER, (t^***, to run or to roll), a pr ocess of the thigh-bone, the muscles inserted into which perform the office of running. TROCHITERIUS, (W5, a wheel). TROCIIINEUS, (t§o^«s, a wheel). TROCHLEA, (rpo^o;, awheel), a kind of cartilaginous pulley. TROCHLEARIS, an articulation where one part moves round another like a pulley. TUBiE FALLOPIANiE, two passages in the womb like trumpets, described by Fallopius. TYMPANUM, the drum of the ear. U. ULNA, the cubit), the large bone of the arm. UMBILICUS, (umbo ilium, the middle of the loins), the navel. URACHUS, (»§«/, urine, and to pour), a ligament of the bladder, occupying the place of the urinary passage of the foetal quadruped, which goes into the allantois. URETER, (»«», urine), the canal that carries the u- rine off from the kidney to the bladder. URETHRA, the passage for the urine from the blad- der. UVEA, (urea, a grape), the posterior lamina ot the iris. UVULA, /257 GLOSSARY. UVULA, the glandular substance which hangs down from the middle of the soft palate. VAGINA, (a sheath), the passage to the womb. VALLATUS, inclosed. VALVES, (valvce, folding doors), little membranes preventing the return of the fluids in the blood- vessels and absorbents. VENA, (from venio, to come, because the blood comes through it), a vein. VENTRICLES, (dim. of venter, the belly). VERTEBRiE, (verto, to turn), the bones of the spine. VESICULA, (dim. of vesica, the bladder). VIBRISSiE, the hairs in the nose, (from vibro, to quaver). VISCERA, strong), the bowels. VOMER, (a plough-share), a bone of the nose. VULVA, (quasi valva), the aperture to the womb. X. XIPHOID, (£'<P«f, a sword), like a sword. Z. ZYGOMA, (£vyo<r, a yoke), the cavity under the zygo- matic process of the temporal bone. Vol. III. R I N D JE X.*!jc, r3 at i - .0 : ■ : . •: V : '’"lv , . . * . ' ii>! - ■■ . : " - : . - * ■ * ■ :: * ■ * ' ■INDEX Pag. .Abdomen, of the, vol. II. - - 1S7 , muscles on the anterior and lateral parts of the; vol. I. - 175 , within the cavity of the, 193 , blood-vessels of the containing parts of the, vol. III. - - 89 , fascia of the, vol. I. - 178.182 lymphatics of the under part of the. vol. Ill Abducentes, or sixth pair of nerves, Abductor oculi, vol. II. indicis manus, vol. I. minimi digiti manus, pollicis manus, or prior indicis, medii digiti 7 131 168 68 236 237 234. 267 tertii digiti 5 pedis, pedis, minimi digiti pollicis Absorbent System, of the, vol. III. Accelerator urinae, vol. I. - Accessorii ad sacro-lumbalem, Accessory nerve to the eighth pair, vol. ILL Acervulus cerebri, vol. II. Acusticus, nervus, vol. III. Adductor minimi digiti manus, vol. I. pollicis manus. It .2 Adductor, 264 1 19 187 207 181 33 168 237 2351 N D E X. 260 , [” or posterior indicis pedis, vol. I. medii digiti 7 tort ii flimti C Ped,S> Adductor, -4 tertii digiti 5 — prior minimi digiti pedis, pollicis pedis, femoris triceps, oculi, vol. 11. Adeps, - - - Adipose arteries, vol. III. Ala; vespertilionis, vol. II. Albuginea tunica, testis, oculi, - - Almonds of the ear. Alveolar artery, vol. III. Amnios, vol. II. Amygdalae, - Anconeus, vol. I. - Anterior auris, - Antihelix, vol. II. - Antitragicus, - Antitragus, - Anus, muscles of the, vol. I. . Aorta, general course of the, vol. III. Aponeurosis of the superior extremity, vol. I. inferior extremity, palmaris, plantaris, temporalis, Appendages of the skin, vol. II. Appendices vermiformes cerebelli, Appendix vermiformis intestini cteci, Aqua labyrinthi, Aquaeductus Fallopii, Sylvii, Aqueous humour of the eye, Aranea tunica. Arbor vita;, Arch of the aorta, vol. III. , crural, vol. I. Arches of the palate, vol. II. Arcus plantaris arteriosus, vol. III. 267 268 267 264< 242 63 13 82 272 250 52 135 22 296 135 223 153 73 74 74 186 13 221 241 225 260 158 8 84 201 93 91 31 58 G1.63 34- 13 177 184 112 ArcusQGl INDEX. 2 o'1- Bifcm oro-calcaneus, Arcus arteriosus volaris profundus, superficialis, Arteries, of the, Articular nerve of the shoulder, Aryteno-epiglottideus, vol. I. Arytenoid cartilages, vol. II. lands, I. Arytenoideus £ ()^fluus> 2 vo]< J transversus, 3 Astragalus, Atloido-occipitalis, Atloido-sub-mastoidcus, Atloido-sub-occipitalis, Attollens aurem, Auditorius, nervus, vol. III. Aurem retrahentes, vol. I. Auricles of the heart, vol. II. Auricularis posterior arteria, vol. III. Auris transversus, vol. II. Axillary artery, vol. III. glands, plexus, Azygos uvula;, vol. I. vena, vol. III. Pag. 54 57 3 195 175 139 142 174* 1S2 212 213 203 152 16S 153 159 et seq. 20 76 47 145 194 170 66 R. Ball of the eye, ■, coats of the, ^ •, humours of the, muscles of the, -, vessels of the. -, nerves of the. Basilar artery, Basilic vein, Bibitorius, vol. II. Biceps flexor cubiti, vol. I. cruris, R 3 C vol. II. £vol. III. 5 vol. II. 2 vol. III. Biventer 47 58 06 70 2G.37 71 155.159 33 GO 68 222 253INDEX. £62 Biventer cervicis, maxillae inferioris, Bladder of Urine, vol. II. , blood-vessels of the, , lymphatics of the, Blood-Vessels in general, of the, Bones in general, of the, vol. I. Bones of the cranium, face, - , ±runk, pelvis, thorax, superior extremity, — inferior extremity. Pag, 209 164 213 £ vol. II. 317 £vol. III. 84 132 3 S 23 52 71 81 91 99 122 13 Bones, ot the formation of, , different kinds of connection and motion of, 17 Brachial artery, vol. III. Brachialis interims, vol. I. Brain, of the, vol. II. , arteries of the, vol. III. , veins of the, -, nerves which arise from the, Breast-bone, or sternum, vol. I. Bregma, Bronchi, vol. II. Bronchial arteries and veins C vol. II. [vol. 111. glands, vol. II. C vol. II. inSj £vol. III. vol I. Buccalis arteria, vol. III. Buccinator, 7 Bucco-labialis, y Bulb of the urethra, vol. II. Buiho- urethralis, vol. I. Bursae Mucosae, of the, Bursae roncc ae of the superior extremity, inferior extremity, 51 222 15 30 41 38 158 96 33 178 181 63 180 22 157 262 187 271 273 276 c.I X D E X. 26 S artery, external, - * 16 Caecum intestinum, vol. U. Caecum, absorbents ol' the, vol. III. Calamus scriptorius, vol. II. Calcis os, vol. I. Calco-sub-phalangeus communis, pollicis, 7 minimi digiti, 5 Calco-super-phalangeus communis, Canals of the cochlea, vol. II. Can cell i, vol. I. Capitatum, or magnum, os, Capitis rectus anterior ^ In^01’ ?- L £ minor, y lateralis, ■ posticus, -f ’ r ’ ( minor, Capsulas Renales, vol. II. • , blood-vessels of the, vol -, lymphatics of the, Cardia, vol. II. Cardiac nerves, vol. III. Carotid arteries, , internal, Carpal bones, vol. I. , ligaments of the, Carpo-metacarpeus minimi digiti, pollicis, Carpo-phalangcus minimi digiti, - pollicis, Cartilages, Cartilago ensiformis, Caruncula lacrvmalis, vol. II. Cauda equina, vol. III. Cava vena, general course of the,' superior, inferior, Cawl, vol. IE R 4 Pag. 200.212 135 35 134 260 26 !• 239 87 4 135 202 203 213 212 241. .III. 81 131) 193 81.206.208 15 25 J ll- SO l 237 233 236 232 11 97 46 188 14 20“ Cellular 1564- INDEX. Cellular substance, - - Centralis retinae arteria, vol. III. ■ vena, Centrum ovale of Vieussens, vol. II. semicircularegsminum, Cephalic vein, vol. III. Cephalo-pharyngeus, vol. I. Cerebellum, vol. II. - - Cerebrum, - Cervical arteries, vol. III. nerves, - vertebrae, vol. I. Cervicalis descendens, Cheek, vol. II. Cheek-bones, vol. I. Chest, bones of the, Chorda tympani, JJj Chorion, vol. II. Choroid coat, ■ plexus, - - Chylopoietic and Assistant Chylopoietic Vis- cera, of the, blood-vessels of the, vol. III. lacteals and lymphatics of the, nerves of the, Cilia, vol. II. - - Ciliary arteries, vol. III. • veins, - - circle, vol. II. glands, - - — processes, Cineritious substance of the brain, Circulus lridis arteriosus, vol. III. f interna, externa, Circumflexa femoris arteria, ———— humeri arteria, ossis ilii arteria, Circumflexus palati, vol. I. anterior, 7 erior, 5 poster] Pag. 12 27 38 24. 27 60 172 33 22 46 191 7.5 207 105 55 91 94* 172 296 52 27 188 69 133 214 44 28 38 52 44 54 23 29 100 101 50 98 16S Circum- /INDEX.’ 265 Circumvolutions of the brain, vol. II. cerebellum, - Circus arteriosus Willisii, vol. III. Clavicle, vol. I. , ligaments of the, Claviculi of bones, * - Clitoridis erector, - - Clitoris, vol. II. Coats of the eye, - - Coecygeus, vol. I. Coccygis, os, - Cochlea, vol. II. ■*Coeliac artery, vol. III. Colic arteries, - - veins, - Collar-bone, vol. I. - com f , l . (_ intertransversales, J longus, - semispinalis, - - transversalis, Colon, vol. II. , absorbents of the, vol. III. Column* carneoe cordis, vol. II. See Heart. valvular Vieussenii, , . f anterior, Commissura cerebri, < . . > ’ [ posterior, J mollis of the optic thalami, Communicans faciei, nervus, vol. III. Complexus, vol. I. Compressor naris, - - prostatae, 7 urethral, 5 Connection of bones, different kinds of, Constrictor istlimi faucium, ^ inferior, 1 * J — pharyngis, < medius £ superior. Coraco-brachialis, Cord, umbilical, vol. II. Cornea, Pag. 22 23 30.3.5 99 295 4 190 280 47 192 82 87 69 74.75 77.78 99 215 201 211 212 201 135 35 31 26 168 209 153 189 17 169 171 172 220 29«yINDEX. 266 Cornea, Cornua Ammonis, of the ventricles of the brain, Coronary arteries of the lips, vol. III. artery of the stomach, vessels of the heart, vol. II. Corpora albicantia, cavernosa penis, — fimbriata, vel ta?nia Hippocampi, — olivaria, 7 pyramidalia, 5 Corpus adiposum, callosum, ciliare, - - - mucosum, spongiosum urethra?, Corrugator supercilii, vol. I. Cortical substance of the brain, vol. II. Costa?, *,vol. I. Costal nerves, vol. III. Costarum depressores proprii, vol. I. Costo-abdominalis, Costo-cervicalis —clavicularis, —coracoidalis, -scapularis. Cranium, bones of the, , muscles of the integuments of the, , nerves which pass through the base the, vol. III. Cremaster, vol. I. - ~ . ., C lateralis, Crico-arytenoideus j posticuS) Cricoid cartilage, vol. II. Crico-thyroideus, vol. I. Crura cerebri, vol. II. cerebelli, Crural arch, vol. I. of rag. 48 29 25 19 69 170 35 259 28 37 13 23 54 5 261 150 23 91 212 200 175 214 198 197 198 23 149 158 186 173 172 138 163 35 36 177 Crural26' INDEX. Crural artery, vol. III. foramen, vol. I. vein, vol. III. nerve, ^ - ring, vol. I. — sheath, Cruralis, Crystalline lens, vol. II. Cubito-carpeus, vol. I. phalangeus communis, super-metacarpeus, pollicis, • radialis, super-phalangeus primus indicis pollici secundus pollicis icis, 1 ollicis, j Cuboides, os, Cucullaiis, - Cuneiforme, os, - Cuneiformia, ossa, - - Cutaneous nerve of the superior extremity, vol. Cuticle, vol. II. Cutis vera, - - - Cystic artery, vol. III. duct, vol. H. Cystis fellis, - Pag. 93 183 115 223 177 182 250 59 22 6 229 227 233 231 235 234 136 203 113 136 III. 195 3 ■ 6 71 225 224? D. Dartos, - Deltoides, vol. I. - C anguli oris, Depressor labii inferioris, (_ labii superioris alseque nasi, oculi, vol. II. Diaphragm, vol. I. , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. , nerves of the, Didymi, vol. II. - » Digastricus, vol. I. 248 219 156 155 154 67 193 67 205 248 164 DorsalINDEX 268 Dorsal vertebrae, nerves, vol. III. Dorsalis linguae, arteria, penis, nervus, Dorsi interspinales, 7 vo] j intertransversales, 5 latissimus, • longissimus, semispinalis, Dorso-costalis, scapularis, super-acromialis, Drum of the ear, tfol. II. Duct, cystic, , hepatic, , pancreatic, ■ y parotid, , . r voi. ii. , thoracic, | vo, in Ducts, lactiferous, vol. II. , sebaceous, Ductus communis choledochus, incisivus. Duodenum, Dura Mater, , blood-vessels of the, { vol. •, processes of the, vol. II. II. III. Pag. 78 212 17 220 21.5 204 208 210 206 205 203 79 225 223 232 112 185 139 14-9 11 226 103 198 15 18 21.4-0 16 E. Ear, of the, ... /•> , small bones of the, - , external, - - '. . , muscles common to the head and, vol. I. - 152 — proper to the, vol. II. , internal, - ~ * c* . , muscles of the, - " ^ ° Eighth pair of nerves, vol. III. . - 174.206 * EjaculatorINDEX. 269 Ejaculator seminis, vol. I. Elbow, ligaments of the, f nmmmillares, vol. II. Eminentiae -< olivares, (_ pyramid ales, Emulgent artery and vein, vol. III. Epicondilo-cubitalis, vol. I. radialis, super- metacarpeus, super-phalangeus communis, Epitrochlo-metacarpeus, palmaris, phalangeus communis, ■ radialis, Epidermis, vol. II. Epididymis, Epigastric artery, vol. III. Epiglottis, vol. II. Epiphyses, vol. I. Erector clitoridis. penis, Ergot, or hippocampus minor, vol. II. Esophagus, Ethmoidalis arteria, vol. III. Bthmoides os, vol. I. Eustachian tube, £ jj Extensor brevis digitorum pedis, vol. I. r r C brevior, — carpi radialis < , . 1 (. longior, ulnaris, digitorum communis, longus digitorum pedis, ossis metacarpi pollieis manus, primi internodii pollieis manus, proprius pollieis pedis, secundi internodii pollieis manus, triceps cubiti, Extern us mallei, vol. II. Extremity, superior, bones of the, vol. I. Extremity, Pag. 187 298 35 87 S7 80.81 223 231 227 230 225 224* 228 231 S 250 97 139 15 190 186 26 18-1 29 44. 41 80 259 227 226 227 230 258 233 234 262 234 22S 84 99:7o INDEX. Extremity, superior, bursae mucosae of the, , muscles of the, , ligaments of the, —— , inferior, bones of the, • , bursae mucosae of the, • , muscles of the, , ligaments of the, Eye, of the, vol. [I. , coats of the, , humours of the, vessels of the, f vol. II. I vol. III. , nerves of the. £ III. Eye-ball, muscles of the, vol. II. Eye-licls, muscles of the, vol. I. Fag. - 27S 217 295 122 276 241 306 41 47 58 70 26 71 159.162 66 151 F. Face, bones of the, , muscles of the, , lymphatics of the, vol. III. , blood-vessels of the, , nerves of the, * Fascia lata femoris, vol. I. of the abdomen. Facial artery, vol. III. nerves, Falx, vel septum cerebri, vol. II. minor, vel septum cerebelli, Fat, Femoral or crural artery, vol. HI. vein, large, or crural nerve, Femoris, os, vol. I. , ligaments of the, Femoro-calcaneus parvus, poplito-tibialis, Fenestra ovalis, 7 i tt « rotunda, j Toh IT' 52 153 146 18 158.169 179 178.182 17 162.173 17 IS 13 9S 115 223 122 306 255 253 £1 Fibula,INDEX. ‘271 Pag. Fibula, vol. I. - - - 128 Fibular artery, vol. III. - - 109 vein, - - - 115 * nerve, - - - 228 Fifth pair of nerves, or par trigeminum, - 161 hirst pair of nerves, or olfactory, ^ - 158 hlexor accessorius digitoruin pedis, vol. I. - 262 —: biceps cruris, - - 253 : cubiti, - - 222 brevis digitorum pedis, - 260 : pollicis inanus, •• - 232 pedis, - - 263 minimi digiti pedis, - 265 carpi radialis, - 225 ulnaris, - - 226 digitorum manus longus digitorum pedis, pollicis manus, pedis, f profundus, ’ ^ -sublimis, parvus minimi digiti manus, F cut os, peculiarities of the, vol. II. /position of the, in utero, , circulation of the blood in the, Follicles, sebaceous, Foot, bones of the, vol. I. , muscles of the, , ligaments of the, , absorbents of the, vol. HI. , blood vessels of the, , nerves of the, - r Fontanella, vol. I. Formation of bone, 229 228 261 232 263 23 6 299 307 307 11 132 254. 313 127 108.112 230.231 33 13 Fornix, vol. II. - - Fossa, vel ritna inagna, navicularis, Sylvii, Fourth pair of nerves,'or pathetic, vol. III. Fraenum linguae, vol. 11. .—1 ,— labiorum pudendi, Fraenum 2S 280 280 27 - 161 10S 280INDEX. 272 Froenum preputii. Frontal sinuses, '°!' !‘T C vol. II. Frontalis, vol. I. Frontis, os, Fronto-superciliaris, Pag. 259 30 100 149 27 150 G. Gall-bladder, vol. II. Ganglia, vol. III. Ganglion semilunare magnum, Gastric arteries, veins, juice, vol. II. externus, interims is, 7 5> 5 vol. I. 224 156 215 69 77 196 254 Gastrocnemius £ Gemellus, - - 247.254 Gemini, - 247 Generation and Urine, Organs of, vol. II. 235.269 1 ■ , blood-vessels of the or- gans of, vol. III. - 80 . lymphatics of the organs of, - 129 , muscles of the organs of, vol. I. - 186.190 ■ ■ , nerves of the organs of, Genio-hyo-glossus, vol. I. hyoideus, • Gland, lacrymal, vol. II. , parotid, « , pineal, , pituitary, , prostate, « , sublingual, • *, submaxillary. Glands, arytenoid, , axillary, vol. HI. , bronchial, vol. II. vol. III. 218 166 165 45 112 32 31 256 113 112 142 145 180 Glands,f .INDEX. 273 Glands, conglobate, vol. III. — , iliac, , inguinal, of Cowper, vol. II. - of the joints, vol. I. mesenteric, vol. III. -, miliary, vol. II. -, popliteal, vol. III. renal, vol. II. -, salivary, -, sebaceous, tracheal. Glandulae ceruminosm, ' concatenate, vol. III. Meibomiance, vol. II. odoriferae. Gians penis, clitoridis, Glosso-palatinus, vol. I. Glosso-pharyngeus, nervus, vol. III. Glottis, 7 • l TT , ligaments of the, y '° ’ , muscles of the, vol. I. Gluteal artery, vol. III. nerves, C maximus, vol. I. Gluteus 4 medius, (_ minimus, - Gracilis, Gravid Uterus, of the, vol. II. Great hippocampus, Great sympathetic nerve, vol. III. Gula, or gullet, vol. II. Gums, Gustatorius nervus, vol. 111. Gutturalis arteria, -f •?uPe,.lor> ’ (_ interior, Gyri of the cochlea, vol. II. Pag. 124- 131 128 264 282 134 11 127 241 111 44 180 77 148 44 262 262 281 169 175 141 172 92 226 244 245 246 249 284 29 178.205 184 106 167 16 46 87 VoL. III. S s n. *INDEX 274 II. C interna, vol. III. Haemorrlwidalis arteria, ■< media, (_ externa, vena, Hairs, vol. II. Ham-muscle, or popliteus, vol. I. Hand, bones of the, , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. , ligaments of the, vol. I. , lymphatics ot the, vol. III. , muscles of the, vol. 1. , nerves qf the, vol. III. Head, bones of the, vol. I. , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. ligaments of the, vol. I. , lymphatics on the, vol. III. muscles on the, vol. I. —, nerves of the, vol. III. Heart, of the, vol. II. Helicis, [ ^ } Helix, Hepatic artery, vol. III. veins, nerves, Hippocampus major, vol. II. minor, Humeral artery, vol. III. veins, Humeri, os, vol. I. Humero-cubitaiis, super-metacarpeus, — radialis, Humilis, vol. II. Humours of the eye, Hymen, Hyo-glossus, vol. I. Hyoides, os, Pag. 76 95 86.96 76 9 253 111 53.57 300 144 224 200.203 27 15 284 146 149 158 156 75 73 70 79 216 29 26 51 60 103 222 226 230 67 58 282 166 70 Hyo-I ND EX Hyo-pharyngeus, Hyo-thyroideus, Hypogastric artery, vol. III. vein, • lymphatics, nerves, * Pag. 17! 163 84- 11G ] 32 218 I. Jaw-bone, lower, vol. I. -, ligaments of the. muscles of the, -, muscles between the, and os hy oides, 64 284 168 199. Jejunum, vol. II. -, lacteals of the, vol. III. Iliac arteries and veins, Iliacus intern us, vol. I. llio-abdominalis, Ilio-aponeuroso-fenioris, Ilio-costalis, Ilio-lumbar artery, vol. III. Ilio-pretibialis, ? . , T Ilio-rotuleus, 5 ° ' Ilio-trochantineus, ‘llio-trochanteriusmagnus, parvus, Ilium, intestinum, vol. II. , os, vol. I. • - Impregnation, changes produced in the uterine system by, vol. II. - 288 Incus, - - 82 Indicator, vol. I. - - 235 Indignabundus, vol. II. - - 68 Inferior Extremity, aponeurosis of the, vol. 1.179.241 , bones of the, - 122 , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. 89 > ligaments of the, vol. I. 80G } lymphatics of the, vol. III. 127 , muscles of the, vol. I. 241 S s-2 Inferior 1G4. .210 133 S4.S0.116 196 180 248 196 91 249 196 245 246 211 85 199INDEX. 27b Inferior extremity, nerves of the, vol. III. Infra- orbitar artery, Infra-spinatus, vol. I. Infundibulum of the brain, vol. II. cochlea, kidneys. Inguinal glands, vol. III. Innominatum, os, vol. I. Integuments, common, of the, vol. II. Intercostal arteries and veins, vol. III. — nerves, extern i, vol. I. interni. Intercostales If L 11 Internus mallei, vol. II. Interossei manus, vol I. pedis, Interosseus auricularis, C colli, Interspinales et intcrtransversalcs < dorsi, £ lumborum Intestines, vol. II. ■ , small, -, great, J Pag. 220 22 217 30 87 240 128 84 S 64.66 212 190 200 84 237 266 239 215 Iris, vol. II. -, absorbents of the, vol. HI. 197 198.208 200.211 132 49 Ischiatie artery, vol. IIL • nerve, Ischio-cavernosus, vol. I. coccygeus, femoralis, femoro--peronealis, perinea I is, poplito-tibialis, . pretibialis, sub-clitorideus, . snb-penialis, . sub-trochanterius, . trochanterius, Ischium, os, Isthmus, hepatic, vol. II. 95 227 186 192 243 253 187 252 252 190 186 248 247 86 21$ Isthmus27? INDEX. \ Isthmus faucium, Vieussenii, Iter a paJato ad auvcm, Iter ad tertium ventriculum, quartum ventriculum, Jugular vein, external, vol. III. • , internal, Kidneys, vol. II. , blood-vessels , lymphatics o , nerves of the, Knee-joint, ligaments of the, vol. I. L. p ,1 r voi* ii. of ll,c> { vo!. 111. ’ the. Labia pudcndi, vol. IT. Labial arteries, vol. III. Labialis, vol. I. Labyrinth of the ear, Vol. II. Lacrymal artery, vol. III. . - gland, vol. II. nerve, vol. III. Lacrymalia, vel unguis, ossa, vol. I. Lacteals, vol. III. Lactiferous ducts, vol. II. Lamellae of bones, vol. 1. Lamina spiralis, vol. II. Larynx, Laryngea, arteria, vol. III. Laryngeus, nervus, Laivngo-pharyngeus, vol. I. Latissimus dorsi, Laxator tympani, vol. II. Leg, bones of the, vol. I. , ligaments of the, Levator anguli oris, C c o % Pag. 135 160 80 30 31 36 4 3 235 237 80 139 218 308 279 18 158 86 27 45 163 54 133 149 3 88 137 16 176 171 204 84 126 312 155I N I) E X. 278 Levator ani, labii inferioris, superiovis alaeque nasi, — menu, — oculi, vol. If. — palati, vol. I. ■ - palpebrae superioris, scapulae, Levatores costarum. Ligament of Poupart, or of Fallopius, Ligamenta | rotunda uterb vo^ Ligaments, of tlie, vol. 1. - of the lower jaw, connecting the head with the first and second vertebrae of the neck, and these vertebrae to each other, of the other vertebrae, of the ribs, of the bones of the pelvis, of the superior extremity, of the inferior extremity, of the liver, vol. II. Ligamontum suspensorium penis, Lingualis, vol. 1. Lingual artery, vol. HI. vein, - - - rag. 188.191 156 154 156 67 168 152 210 199 177 272.278 280 284 nerve, Lips, vol II. Liquor amnii, pericardii, Liver, blood-vessels of the, vol. III. lymphatics of the, , nerves of the, Lobes of the brain, vol. II. of the liver, of the lungs, Locus niger crurufn cerebri, Longus colli, vol. I. 285 286 288 291 295 306 21-9 260 166 17 36 177 105 298 1 55 216 70.78 136 216 22 217 174 36 201 LongissimusINDEX 279 Longissimus clorsi, Lumbar arteries, vol. III. glands, ■ nerves, plexus of nerves, • vertebras, vol. I. Lumbo-abdominalis, costalis, humeralis, Lumbricales manus, pedis, Lunare, os, Lungs, vol. II. , blood-vessels of the, , lymphatics of the, , nerves of the, Lymphatics, Lyra fornicis, vol. II. vol. II. vol. III. M. Magna pollicis arteria, vol. III. Magnum, vel capitatum, os, vol. I. Malarum, ossa, Mallei interims, vol. II. Malleolus f ex,ternus> vo1- L in tern us, Malleus, vol. II. - - 1 Mam.m.t, Mammary arteries, vol. III. veins, r voi. ii. nerves, |voLm< Marrow, vol. I. Marsupialis, Massa carnea Jacob ii Sj/lvii, Masseter, Masseteric arteries, vol. III. Mastoidous lateralis, vol. I. S s 4- Pag. 208 89 131 221 221 78 181 205 204 229 262 113 173 181 63.65 141 207 121 28 54 115 55 84 129 127 . 82 146 48.62 62.66 148 213 10 247 262 159 22 209 Mastoido-INDEX. 2 30 Mastoido-auricularis, Mastoido-mentalis, Mater, \ tlura- vel lL c l)ia» Matrix, Maxilla inferior, vol. I. Maxillaria superiora ossa, Maxillary artery, external, vol. III. , internal, Fug. 15a 164. 15 21 270 64. 56 IS 21 vein, nerves, Maxillo-hyoidcus, vol. I. labialis, Meatus auditorius cxternus, intern us. Median vein, vol. III. - nerve, Mediastinum, vol. II. Medulla oblongata. c voi. i. I vol. II. ^ vol. I. ^ voi. II. • - - spinalis, vol. III. Medullary substance of the brain, vol. II. Meibomian glands, Membrana Celi.ularis, medullaris, vol. I. pupillaris, vol. II. Schncideriana, tympani, 36.44* 165.166 165 156 40 76 4? 90 59 199 152 37 183 24 44 12 9 49 100 78 secundarii, Meningeal artery, vol. III. Mento-labialis, vol. I. J Mesenteric blood-vessels, vol. III. nerves, Mesentery, vol. II. Meso-colon, - - Meso-rectum, Metacarpal bones, vol. I. Metacarpeus, 92 21 155 73.75 134 217 203 203 205 116 237 Metacarpo-281 INDEX. I Pag. Metacarpo-plialangei laterales, - 237 Metacarpo phalangeus pollicis, - 235 Metatarsal bones, - - 137 artery, vol. III. * - 108 Metatarso-phalungei laterales, vol. I. - 266 a.-sub-phalangeus pollicis, - 264* phalangeus transversalis pollicis, 265 Miliary glands, vol. II. - - 11 Modiolus, - 87 Motion of bones, different kinds of, vol. I. - 18 Motores oculorum, or third pair of nerves, vol. III. - - - 100 Mouth, of the, vol. II. - 105 , muscles of the, vol. I. - 153 Multifidus spina?, - - - 211 Muscles in general, of the, - 147 Musculo-cutaneous nerve of the superior extremi- ty, vol. ill. - - 197 Mylo-hyoideus, vol. I. - - 165 N. Nails, vol. II. Naris compressor, vol. I. - Nasalis labii superioris, - , Nasi ate f depressor, 7 t levator, J Nasi, ossa, - - Naso-palpebralis, - Nates cerebri, vol. II. Naviculare, os, vol I. - Neck, blood-vessels of the, vol. Ill, , lymphatics of the, , muscles on the fore and lateral part of vol. I. - , nerves of the, vol. III. , vertebras of the, vol. I. 8 153 158 154 53 151 32 135 15.45 14S the, Nerves, of the, vol. III. - ——, cerebral, , spinal, 161 190 75 152 158 183 > NinthINDEX. 282 Ninth pair of nerves, Nipple, vol. II. Noni tlescendens, nervus, vol. III. Nose, of the, vol. II. —. bones of the, [j_ , blood-vessels of the, , lymphatics of the, vol. III. , muscles of the, vol. I. , nerves of the, vol. II. Nymphse, Par. Ill 147 178 97 53 97 103 147 153 103 281 o. Obliquus ascendens interims, vol. I. capitis inferior, superior, $ descendens abdominis, oculi inferior, vol. II. superior. Obturator artery, vol. III. externus, vol. I. interims, nerve, vol. III. Occipital artery, vein, nerve, Occipitis, os, vol. I. - Occipito-frontalis, GEsophageal arteries and veins, vol. III. nerves, Oesophagus, vol. II. Olfactory, or first pair of nerves, vol. III. Omentum, vol. II. minus, Omo-hyoideus, vol. I. Ophthalmic artery, vol. III. vein. nerves. Opponens pollicis, vol. I. Optici, 180 213 175 69 68 94 244 247 223 20 36.44 192 34 149 64.67 208 184 158 205 206 164 26 40 162 233INDEX. 283 Optici, or second pair of nerves, ^y^] jj*j Pag. Orbiculare, os, vol. II. Orbicularis oculi, voL I. oris, — palpebrarum, Orbito-paipebralis, Orbits, vol. II. Oi •gans of the senses, - Organs of urine and generation in the male, in the female, , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. 80 . , lymphatics of the, 129 , nerves of the, 218 56 159 83 151 15S 151 152 41 3 235 269 Oris anguli, depressor, vol. I. -, levator, Os tincae, vol. II. Ova, Ovaria, 156 155 272 274 273 Oxoido-atloideus, voj j talis, 5 - occipitalis, 213 P. Palate, vol. II. -, arches of the, .in 107 134 Palati circumflexus, 7 voj j levator, 3 16S ossa. Palatina-descendens arteria, vol. III. inferior arteria, . - Palato-maxillary nerve, • pharyngeus, vol. I. uvularis. Palmaris arcus arteriosus profundus, vol. III. arteria profunda, superfioialis, Palmaris longus, vol. I. 60 23 18 165 169 170 54 54 57 224 Palmaris I28 4 INDEX. Palmaris nervus, vol. III. brevis, \ vqj Palmaro-cutaneus, ( 200.203 I. Parotid vol. II. Palmo-phalangeus, Palpebroe, vol. II. Palpehra? superioris levator, vol. I. Palpebrarum orbicularis, Pancreas, vol. II. Panniculus carnosus, Pap of the throat, - - Papilla, or nipple, Papillae of the tongue, Par trigeminum, or fifth pair of nerves, vol. III. Parietafia ossa, vol. I. (duct, 7 l gland, 5 Pars vaga ol the eighth pair of nerves, vol. III. Patella, vol. I. - • Pathetic, or fourth pair of nerves, vol. III. Patientiac musculus, vol. I. - Pectinalis, - - J> Pectoralis major, 7 minor, 3 Pedes hippocampi, vol. II. Pedis, interossei, vol. I. • n , i« C cerebri, vol. II. reduncuh £ cerebelh, - * - Pelvis, blood-vessels of the, vol. III. , bones of the, vol. I. , ligaments of the bones of the, ■ , lymphatics of the, Vol. III. , muscles of the, vol. I. , nerves of the, vol. 111. Penis, vol. II. , blood-vessels of the, , muscles of the, vol. I. , ligamentum suspensorium, vol. II. , lymphatics of the, ^ II. III. Penis, 325 229 42 152 151 230 14 107 147 109 161 31 112 174 ISO 161 210 242 197 29 266 35 36 89 84 291 129 241 220 259 265 87 186 260 267 130285 INDEX. Penis, nerves of the, ^ Perforans, vol. I. - Pcrforatus, - Pericardium, vol. II. Perichondrium, vol. I. - Perinei transversus, Perineo-clitorideus, - - Perineum, vol. II. Periosteum, vol. I. - Peritoneum, vol. II. Peroneal artery, vol. III.' nerve, - - Peroneo-metatarseus magnus, vol. I. minor, sub-phalangeus pollicis, sub-tarscus, super-phalangeus communis, ■ super-phalangeus pollicis, Peroneus £ ^rcvIS’ 7. - longus, J • tertius, - Petro-palatinus, - - Pharyngeal artery, vol. III. nerve, Pharyngo-palatinus, vol. I. - Pharynx, vol. II. , muscles on the back-part of the, vol. Phrenic arteries and veins, vol. III. Pag. 267 220 229 228 154 12 187.190 190 279 8 189 109 229 257 259 263 257 258 262 257 259 168 19 176 169 135 I. 171 67 nerve, - 205 Pia mater, vol. II. - - 21 Pigmentum nigrum, - - 53 Pineal gland, - - 32 Pinguedo, - - - 13 Pisiforme, os, vol. I. - - 114 Placenta, vol. II. - - 295 Plantar artery and arch, vol. III. - 111 Plantaris, vol. I. - - 255 Planto-sub-phalangeus, - - 262 Plates of bones, - Platysma286 IN D E X. Platysma mvoides, Pleura, vol. II. Pomuin Adami, Pons j" Tarini, 7 S l Varolii Popliteal artery, vol. III. glands, vein, Poplitcus, vol. I. Porta?, vena?, vol. III. vol. Portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, £ voj‘ dura of the seventh pair of nerves, C indicis pedis, vol. I. Posterior, or adductor 7 medii digiti 7 v l tertii digit! jPcdls’ annularis. auris, indicis manus, medii digit! manus, Predorso-atloideus, Prelumbo-pubialis, trochantineus Prepuce of the penis, vo of the clitoris, .} ol. II. «, . f annularis ? i t Prior -J.,.. > manus, vol. I. I indicis 3 • medii digiti manus, , or abductor indicis pedis, f abductor medii digiti 7 r , or ] tertii digiti jPedls' £ adductor minimi digiti pedis, Profunda femoris arteria, vol. 111. vena, penis arteria Pronator radii £ atUS> ^ vol Prostate gland, vol. IT. Psnlterium fornicis. . I. Pag. 161 151 137 36 104* 129 115 253 78 II. 94< III. 168 169 267 265 240 153 238 239 201 195 259 281 23S 239 267 266 267 100 115 87 231 258 28 PsoasINDEX. 287 Psoas magnus, yo] j — parvus, 5 Ptervgoideae arteri'se, vol. III. Pterygoideus ] vol. I. Pterygo-palatinus, Pubio-femoralis, sternalis, sub-umbilicalis, Pubis, os, Pudendum, vol. II. Pudic artery, vol. III. vein, nerves, Pulmonary artery and veins, Puncta lacrymalia, vol. II. Pupil of the eye, Pylorus, Pyramidalis, vol. I. Pyriformis, Quadratus femoris, genae, lumborum, Q. R. Radial artery, vol. III. nerve, Radialis externus brevior, vol. I. longior, interims, Radio-phalangeus pollicis, Radius, Ranina, arteria, vol. III. , vena, Receptaculum chyli, ^ j Pag. 195 22 160 16S 243 185 S7 279 S6 88 219 12 45 49 193 185 246 248 155 195 53 199 227 226 225 232 109 17 44 186 14Q Rectum,INDEX. 28a Rectum, vol. II. - - — , lymphatics of the, vol. III. Rectus abdominis, vol. I. oculi, vol. II. * » capitis anterior } major’ "l vol. I. 1 I minor, 3 lateralis, posticus major, minor, ■ femoris, Recurrent nerve of the eighth pair, vol. III. radial artery, ulnar artery. Renal artery and vein, glands, vol. II. nerves, vol. III. Retina, vol. II. Retractor anguli oris, vol. I. Retrahentes aurem, Rhomboideus, Ribs, - , ligaments of the, Ring, abdominal, , crural, - - Rotula, - S. Sacral artery, vol. III. lateral arteries, — nerves, Sacro-costalis, vol. I. -femoralis, lumbalis, spinalis, trochanterius, Sacrum, os, Salivary glands, vol. II. Salpingo-pharyngcus, vol. I. Saphaense, venae, vol. 111. i lJag. 202 132 185 67 202 203 21S 212 249 206 53 55 80.81 241 218 56 157 153 205 91 28S 178.184 177 130 90 92 225 207 244 207 208 246 79 111 170 113 Saphcnus,239 INDEX -Saphenus, nervus, Sartorius, vol. I. s-Hrai;} «*• «• f anticus, Scalenus ■< inedius, £ vol. I. £ posticus, j Scaphoides, os. Scapula, , ligaments of the, Scapulae levator, Scapular arteries, vol. III. nerve, Scapulo-humeralis, vol. I. -humero-olecraneus, —radialis, . Sciatic artery, vol. III. • nerve, Sclerotic coat, vol. II. Scrotum, C ducts, 1 Sebaceous ■< follicles, > tgknds, 3 Second pair of nerves, or optic, vol. III. Secundines, vol. II. Semicircular canals of the ear. Semilunar ganglion, vol. III. Semi-membranosus, vol. I. Seminal vessels, vol. II. Seminis ejaculator, voL I. Semi-spinalis colli, dorsi, Semi-tendinosus, Senses, Organs of the, vol. II. Septum cerebri, or falx, cerebelli, lucidum, penis, scroti, Serratus magnus, vol. I. Vox.. III. Pag. 224 249 S9 -214 112 100 296 210 47.49 19 6 219 223 222 95 227 51 248 11.44 155 293 89 215 252 254 187 211 210 252 3 27 261 249 198 SerratusINDEX 29J> Pag. 197 205 206 140 168 297 100 159.166 . 189 19 41 164 Serratos minor anticus, posticus inferior, superior, Sesamoidea, ossa, Seventh pair of nerves, vol. III. Shoulder, ligaments of the, vol. I. Shoulder-blade, - - Sinus venosus of the heart, vol. II. venosi of the spinal marrow, vol. III. Sinuses of the dura mater, jjj Sixth pair of nerves, or abduccntes, Skarf-skin, vol. II. - 3 Skeleton, different kinds, and division of the, vol. I. 19 --, principal differences between the male 142 6 21 254 82.83 251 219 51 101 63 - 46 188.191 158 190 245 183 183 208 71 197 212.215 227 138 72 and female. Skin, vol. II. Skull, vol. I. Solcus, Spermatic artery and vein, vol. III. cord, vol. II. nerves, vol. III. • C vol. I. • Sphenoid sinuses, < voj Sphenoidal cornua, vol. I. Sphenoides, os, Sphincter ani, — labiorum, _ vaginae, vesicae, vol. II. Spinal Marrow, of the, vol. III. — - nerves, origin of the, Spinalis dorsi, vol. I. Spine, Spiral nerve, vol. III. Splanchnicus, nervus, Spleen, vol. II. , lymphatics of the, vol. III. Splenic artery, — vein. SplenicINDEX, 291 Splenic nerves, Splenius, vol. I. Spongiosa, ossa, Spongiosum corpus urethra;, vol. II. Stapedius, Stapes, Sterno-cleido-mastoideus, vol. I. costalis, humeral is, hyoideus, pubialis, thyroideus, Sternum, Stomach, vol. II. , absorbents of the, vol. III. , blood-vessels of the, vol. II. , nerves of the, vol. III. Stylo-glossus, hyoideus, ?- vol. I. pharyngeus, j Sub-acromio'humcralis, Subclavian artery, vol. III. Subclavius, vol. I. Sublingual gland, vol. IT. artery, vol. IIL Submaxillary gland, vol. II. Submental artery, vol. III. Suboccipital nerves, Sub-pubio-coccygeus, vol. I. femoralis, -pretibialis, trochanterius externus, internus, Subscapularis, Sub-scapulo-trochineus, Superbus, vol. II. Supercilia, Supercilii corrugator, vol. I. Superior cava, vol. III. Superior Extremity, aponeurosis of the, vol. I. T 2 Superior Pag. 216 206 62 2G1 85 S3 162 201 197 162 1S5 163 96 191 135 196 210 167 219 45 198 113 17 112 18 190 188 243 249 244 247 220 67 42 150 14 221292 INDEX. Pag. Superior Extremity, blood-vessels of the, vol. III. 45 , bones of the, vol. I. 99 • , ligaments of the, - 295 , lymphatics of the, vol. III. 144 , muscles of the, vol. I. 217 , nerves of the, vol. III. 194 Super-maxillo-labinlis, vol. I. - 154.155 — nasalis, - - 153 pubio-femoralis, - - 242 scapulo-troclmnterius magnus, - 217 minimus, - 218 parvus, - 217 Supinator radii brevis, - - 231 longus, - - 230 Supra-orbitar artery, vol. III. - 29 Supra-spinatus, vol. I. - - 217 Sutures, - - - - 24 Sympathetic nerve, vol. III. - - 174 Synovial organs, vol. I. - 282 T. Taenia hippocampi, vol. II. - semicircularis of Haller, Tarsea, arteria, vol. III. Turso-sub-phalangeus pollicis, vol. I. minimi digiti, Tarsus, bones of the, , ligaments of the, of the eye-lids, vol. IE rp C vol. I. - T“th> l vol. II. Tela cellulosn, choroidea. Temporal artery, vol. III. vein, Temporalis, vol. I. Temporo-auricularis, Temporum, ossa, Tensor tympani, vol. II. 28 27 104 263 265 132 313 43 68 115 12 29 23 36 159 152 38 84 TensorINDEX.' 293 Tensor vagina femoris, vol. I. • palati, Tentorium cerebelli, vol. II. Teres major, vol. I. minor, Testes, vol. II. , blood-vessels of the, vol. III. lymphatics of the, -, nerves of the, cerebri, vol. II. Testis musculus, vol. I. - Thalami nervorum opticorum, vol. II. Thigh-bone, vol. I. Third pair of nerves, or motores oculorum, vol. Thoracic Duct, Thoraco-facialis, vol. I. Thorax, of the, vol. II. , blood-vessels within the, vol. III. , bones of the, vol. I. , muscles situated upon the anterior of the, , nerves within the, vol. III. Throat, of the, vol. II. Thj’ro-arytenoideus, vol. I. epiglottideus, hyoid eus, - Thyroid cartilage, vol. II. gland, - - Thyroidea, arteria, superior, vol. III. • , inferior. Tibia, vol. I. v - - Tibial arteries, vol. III. veins, - nerve, - Pag. 248 168 17 219 218 248 82 130 219.222 32 186 26 122 III. 160 185 139 161 145 62 91 part Tibialis {; vol. I. anticus, posticus, j Tibio-calcaneus, phalangeus communis, 197 205 134 173 175 163 137 179 16 46 12 6 106 115 230 256 254 261 Tibio- »294 INDEX. Tibio-sub*tarseus, ") super-tarseus, 3 Tomentum cerebri, vol. II. Tongue, of the, , artery of the, vol. III. , lymphatics of the, , muscles of the, vol. I. , nerves of the, vol. II. Tonsils, Torcular Herophili, ^ Trachea, vol. II. Trachelo-mastoideus, 7 1 T occipitalis, j VoL T- scapularis, sub-occipitalis major, ? O — minor, Tractus optici, vol. II. Fragicus, Tragus, Transversalis abdominis, vol. I. colli, pedis, urethrae, Transverso-spinalis colli, dorsi, lumborum, Transversus auris, vol. II. perinci, vol. I. Trapezium, os. Trapezius, Trapezoides, os, Triangularia, ossa, Triangularis oris, *> stern 1, Triceps adductor femoris, extensor cubiti. Tricuspid valve, vol. II. Tri-femoro-rotuleus, vol- I* Trochlearis, vol. II. Pag. 256 23 108 17 147 166 111 135 19 41 176 209 210 202 27 75 74 181 212 265 187 211 210 211 76 187.190 114 203 115 ' 63 156 201 242 223 162 250.251 68 Trunk,INDEX. 295 Pag. Trunk, bones of the, vol. I. - - 71 , muscles situated on the posterior part of the, - - - 203 Tuber annulare, vol. II. - 36 Tubercula quadrigemina, - - 32 Tuberculum Loweri, - - 160 Tube, Eustachian, - SO , Fallopian, - . - 274* * Tunica adnata, - - .47 albuginea, - - - 52 • arachnoidea, - - 20 aranea, or vitrea, - - 62.64- choroides, - - 52 sclerotica, - - - 51 • vaginalis, - - 249 Turbinata inferiora, ossa, vol. I. - 62 Tympani chorda, vol. II. - - 94 laxator, - - 84 membrana, - - 78 Tympanum, - - 79 Vagina, Vaginae sphincter, vol. I. Vaginal artery, vol. III. Valves of the absorbents, of the veins, of the heart and arteries, vc Valvula coli, semilunaris oculi, Vasa brevia, vol. III. efferentia testis, vol. II. of the absorbents, inferenjtia of the absorbents, lactea primi et secundi gener vasorum, Vastus externus, vol. I. interims, Veins, of the, vol. III. V. 276 190, - 85 123 10 . II. See Heart. 212 46 72 254 • vol. III. 126 - 133 5 250 251 8 VelumINDEX 206 Velum Vieussenii, vol. II. Vena Cava, general course of the, vol. III. , superior, 7 , inferior, 3 -rr * • ■ 1 Vol. II. •" Vena magna ipsius penis, j ^ ^ >-■ portae, - - - Ventricles of the brain, vol. II. * of the heart, of the larynx, _ Vermiform appendix of the caecum, appendages of the cerebellum, Vertebrae, true, vol I. , false, , ligaments of the, Vertebral arteries, vol. III. Vesica urinaria, vol. II. « Vesicalis ima, artcria, vol. III. Vesicula fellis, vol. 11. Vesiculae seminales, Vestible of the labyrinth, of the pudendum, Viscera, of the, Vitreous humour, - Ulna, vol. I. - Ulnar artery, vol. III. - nerve, - Ulnaris externus, vol. I. internus, . Umbilical cord, vol. II. artery, vol. III. Unciformc, os, vol. I. - . Unguis, ossa, - Voice, vol. II. Volar arches, vol. III. Vomer, vol. I. Vorticose veins, vol. HI. Ureters, vol. II. - - Urethra, - Pag. 35 IS 14 266 88 78 25 162.167 141 201 34 72 79 285 32 243 94 224 2 56 86 282 3 63 107 54 201 227 226 293 84 116 54 143 54.57 63 39 2 40 263 UrethraePag- Urethra transversalis, , T Urinm accelerator, ^ vo • „ IS 7 Uterine artery, vol. III. . 85 Uterus, of the, vol. 11. 270 —, appendages of the. m 272 , gravid, of the, m 284- Uvula, • 107 Uvulae, azygos, vol. I. a 170 z. Zonula ciliaris, vol. II. Zygomaticus major, vol. I. minor, Zygomato-auricularis, labialis. 65 156 157 153 156.15"- END OF VOLUME THIRD. • i .T. PILl.ANS & SONS, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH,.1 * • *■ . - • . f 9 . . •* - \ • _ . *r J % • . . . ,'J J : n' . ■ ■ • /■ Xr''z> •• * v :v ’ . -• # '" KING’S College LONDON Library> /V/// P^OCiseJ rj toOV \%\Z-wz 201096345 2 KING S COLLEGE LONDON