EDINBURGH SCHOOL OF COOKERY, ALBERT BUILDINGS, SHANDWICK PLACE, FOUNDED OCTOBER 1S75. The Executive Committee of the Edinburgh School of Cookery receive applications for Demonstrations and Practice Lessons in towns and villages in Great Britain and Ireland (reserving the right of refusal). I.—They are prepared to take the entire money risk of Demonstration Lessons, to make all the arrangements as regards printing, &c., and to send a Teacher who takes with her a stove, cooking utensils, and every requisite for conducting them. It is usual to give 1 wo Courses of Twelve Lessons each in every town. Admission to High CHss and Plain Cookery Lessons has been fixed at 10s. 6d. for twelve lessons, is. single admission ; to Cheap Cookery Lessons, 2s. for twelve lessons, 3,/. single admission. Special arrangements may be made for Practice Lessons and for Classes in Schools and Institutions. H.—When preferred, any town may engage a Teacher from the School at a fixed rate. Hon. Treasurer. Miss Louisa Stevenson, Albert Buildings, Shandwick Place. Hon. Secretary’. Miss Guthrie Wright. Albert RuiMinorc SKon^wick Place. jSecretary. 22101720535 T 'Med K10994 SCHOOL \ Cookery Book. COMPILED AND EDITED BY C. E. GUTHRIE WRIGHT, HON. SECRETARY OF THE EDINBURGH SCHOOL OF COOKERY. IDonti on: MACMILLAN AND CO. 1881. [ The right of translation and reproduction is res trued. ]T<: (AH cfru WELLCOME INSTITL 'E LIBRARY Coll welMOmec Call No. QTPREFACE. This “ School Cookery Book ” has been written chiefly for the use of cookery classes in elementary schools. The theory of food is therefore explained in simple language, the recipes are given in small quantities, and the directions are very minute. It is hoped, however, that the book may prove useful also to others who desire to study the theory and practice of good economical cookery. The text is complete without the footnotes, which are inserted for the benefit of teachers and older people. The theoretical part has been submitted to, and approved by, an eminent chemist and two physicians. The Editor desires to express her obligation to Sir Thomas D. Acland, Bart., M.P., for valuable criticisms and suggestions.CONTENTS. PART I.—THEORETICAL. Introduction, The Materials of Food, The Principles of Cookery, The Adaptation of Food to varying stances, CIRCUM- PART II.—PRACTICAL Table of Weights and Measures, I-Iow to Choose Meat, &c., Names and Uses of various pieces of To Cleanse Utensils, &c., To Cleanse Vegetables, General Directions for Cooking, Soups, Fish, . Meat, Meat—Roasting, Broiling, Boiling, Stewing, Frying, Cold Meat Cookery, .6 CONTENTS. PAGE Miscellaneous Recipes, 83 Cheap Dishes without Meat, .... 89 Vegetables, 94 Pastry, 103 Milk Puddings, no Boiled and Miscellaneous Puddings, . . .117 Eggs, I24 Sauces, Bread, &c., I3° Drinks I3^ Sick Room Cookery, *38 Infants' Food, J48 APPENDIX. Suggestions for Arranging Cookery Classes in Elementary Schools, 152 i5S Index,THE SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK. PART I. THEORETICAL. INTRODUCTION. Motion and warmth are two essential conditions of the life of human beings. Even when the body seems to be quite still, movement is going on in every part of it. The blood is constantly being pumped by the heart, and carried to all parts of the body; the lungs move with every breath ; a change is caused in the brain by every thought. To produce movement, either external or internal, some force or exertion (not necessarily voluntary) is used, and all force involves wear and tear. This wear and tear takes place in the flesh and blood, the fat and bones, and other materials of which the body is composed. If these used-up materials are not replaced, the body will wear away, and the animal become exhausted and die. All living human bodies are warm.1 If the warmth 1 The temperature of th6 human body is about 98° Fahr., and in healthy persons is nearly uniform both in hot and in cold weather. Thermometers, instruments formeasuringheat, have been constructed by various persons : the one made by Fahrenheit is in most general use. Freezing point is 320 (° means degrees); temperate, 55°; summer heat, 76°; blood heat, 98°; boiling point (water), 213°.INTRODUCTION. 8 is not kept up they die. In keeping up this warmth something is used up, and this must be replaced. Food replaces the materials used up by the move- ment of our bodies, keeps up warmth, and gives power of movement, or, as it is more correctly called, force. Food cannot, however, accomplish these ob- jects in its natural state. It must be reduced into a lluid form so as to be able to pass through very small channels, and to be carried along in the blood. After it enters the bloodvessels it must mix with air,1 drawn in through the lungs and skin, and through the changes effected by the air and by various other organs of the body, the food is gradually made fit to replace all wasted and worn-out materials. I he wholesomeness of food depends on three con- ditions :— 1. On the selection of the right materials, whether animal or vegetable, and on their use in proper pro- portions. 2. On cooking the materials in such a manner as to make them digestible,—that is, capable of being readily turned into material fit for replacing the waste of the body already spoken of. 3. On adapting the use of food to the different cir- cumstances of age, employment, climate, and state of health. 1 That part of air called oxygen.9 THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. CHAPTER I. THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. Before learning the principles of Cookery, it is impor- tant to know something about the composition of the different kinds of food, in order to choose those that are best fitted to keep the body in health and vigour. For this purpose let us consider one or two of our most important foods. Milk is the most perfect human food that we have; infants live on it alone. We find that if milk stands for a little, the cream or fatty part separates and rises to the top, leaving the skim milk below. The cream is the principal part which gives warmth, but it does not repair the used-up materials of the body. The skim milk does this. Skim milk can be separated into curd and whey. Curd is, strictly speaking, the flesh- forming part: whey supplies water, sugar, and mineral substances. Bread is another very important kind of food. If we take a little of the flour of which it is made, tie it in a cloth and squeeze it in cold water, we shall find that a milky or cloudy liquor will be formed in the water. The same can be got out of various grains, especially rice; also out of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca and sago. This milky appearance is caused by starch, another of the materials which will keep up heat, but will not form flesh. Inside of the cloth there will be found a grey sticky or glutinous paste, which will be spoken of presently. Sugar also is an important agent in producing and keeping up warmth. These three substances—fats, starch, and sugar—may therefore be named—IO THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. I. Warmth or Heat-giving Foods.1 Table showing the Chief Warmth-giving Foods. Fats. Cream. Butter. Oil. Yolk of Egg. Suet. Dripping. Lard. Starch. Found in Flour. Potatoes. Arrowroot. Com Flour. Rice. Semolina. Tapioca. And most Garden Vegetables. Sugar. Found in Sugar Cane. Beetroot. Honey. Fruit. Milk. The heat-giving foods, after digestion, are passed into the blood, which is then pumped by the heart into the lungs. The blood is spread out in little thin hair-like vessels all over the lungs, so that the air breathed into the lungs may mix with it. The mix- ture of that portion of the air called oxygen with the fatty particles floating in this blood, causes in living creatures a burning up of these fatty particles, and this combustion produces heat, and is so like the process of burning which goes on in a fire, that it is sometimes called animal burning or combustion.2 This mixture of fresh air with the other particles of food floating in the blood, also causes one of the many changes which they pass through, before they are in a fit state to become part of the body. We must now see what kinds of food, or rather what parts of food, will make flesh, and so build up 1 Technically called Carbonaceous Foods, because they contain a great deal of carbon. Coal, peat, and wood are the carbon burnt in a common fire. The air supplies the oxygen, which may be pumped in with bellows to make the fire bum briskiy. 2 The technical name of this process is Oxidation.11 THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. the body. The white of egg1 is the type of food which is required for this purpose. Lean meat- and skim milk3 are of the same nature. The sticky or glutinous substance4 which was left in the cloth alter the starch was squeezed out of the flour, is a flesh former; also parts of almost all grains, such as oats, and including the glutinous matter5 of peas and beans. All these substances will make flesh that is, wil replace the used-up materials of the body and we shall therefore call them II. Flesh-formers.6 Table showing the Chief Flesh-forming Foods. Animal. Lean. Meat. Fish. Poultry. Skim Milk. Cheese. White of Egg. It will be seen from this table that both the animal and vegetable kingdoms supply flesh-formers. Half a pound of animal food contains a larger amount of flesh-forming power than half a pound of vegetable food. But the same amount of flesh-forming power may be derived from certain vegetable products (which are much cheaper) if taken in large quantities. The vegetable products which yield the greatest amount of 1 Albumen. 2 The juice and fibre of lean meat consist almost entirely of albumen and fibrin. 3 When milk is turned into cheese, this substance is called casein. 4 Glutin. D Legumin. 6 Technically called Nitrogenous Foods, as nitrogen is the flesh- forming element common to them all. They are also called albuminoid— i.e., white of egg like. Vegetable. Flesh-forming Material exists largely in— Peas. Flour, ) made Beans. Macaroni, > from Lentils. Semolina, ) wheat. Oatmeal. Rye. Barley. Maize.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. the kind of food which replaces the used-up materials of the body, are peas, beans, and lentils, called col- lectively “ the pulses.” Persons who have little or no animal food must find their chief flesh-forming food in the pulses, because these contain from two to three times as much flesh-forming power as even the grains that rank next them in that respect. Dr. Parkes writes,1 “ A labouring man by ringing the changes on oatmeal, maize, peas and beans, rice and macaroni (which is made from corn), to which may be added cheese and bacon occasionally, may bring up his children as well nourished as those of the richest people and at a small cost. Oatmeal, the most nutritious of the cereal grains and formerly the staple food of our finest men, .... Indian corn, .... peas and beans and rice are far less used by our poorer classes than should be the case.” I lie names of heat-givers and flesh-formers correctly indicate the chief work of these two important classes of foods. But for the sake of exactness it must be stated that flesh-forming foods certainly do a little towards keeping up warmth; whilst, on the other hand, heat-givers do a little towards making flesh. 1 he power of movement—force—is now believed to be produced chiefly by fatty or heat-giving foods.2 With regard to bones and some other parts of our 1 Page 21, in “ Personal Care of Health " by E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S. (published by the Society for promoting Christian Know- ledge, price is.). Professor Parkes was head of the Government Hospital at Netley. We are indebted to him for most important discoveries about food ; he had great opportunities for observations on soldiers, making great exertions on definite rations weighed out. Fuller information is given in his larger work on Hygiene. *' Liebig and others attributed to flesh-forming foods, especially lean meat, the power of producing force. But the opinion of scien- tific men on this subject has undergone a change, and recent experi- ment points to fats as the means of giving force.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 13 bodies which require mineral matter—as salt, lime, iron, &c., it is enough to observe here, that with the exception of a certain amount of salt, these are not taken in the body in a solid form, but exist in very minute particles in different foods. They are chiefly supplied in vegetables including grains and fruits. Lime is also supplied in water and in milk, these mineral matters are generally called— III. Salts. They are essential to the health of the body. About two-thirds of the human body consist of water. In a full-grown person about five pints pass off daily in various ways. It is, therefore, evident that if one object of food is to replace the waste of the body, IV. Water must be supplied to replace what goes out, and must therefore form an important part of food. Liquid foods (milk, soups, and drinks) consist largely of water. It is not, however, necessary to replace the waste entirely by drinking liquid, as a large proportion of all apparently solid food is in reality water. Fruit and vegetables contain a great deal of water, and there is much evtn in animal food. Water does not directly nourish the body either by forming flesh or giving heat. Its chief uses are—a, to mix with and soften solid food, and thus help the various stages of digestion; b, to assist in carrying the food to the various parts of the body, where it is required to re- place what has been wasted ; c, to mix with and help to carry off matter which has been used up.1 It is 1 The blood contained in the arteries conveys the digested food to the various parts of the body, and that contained in the veins removes the used-up matter. More than three-fourths of the blood consists of water.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 14 very important that water for cooking and drinking should be pure. If it is impossible to obtain pure water it should first be boiled and then filtered.1 There is a class of foods that might be arranged under some of the heads already mentioned, but it is simpler to speak of it separately) viz:— Flavourings, or, as they are sometimes called, Condiments. These consist of salt (which comes under the head of minerals), pepper, mustard, vinegar, flavouring herbs, spices, etc. Condiments are of little or no use in repairing the waste of the body, but, used in moderation, they assist in making food more palatable; and by helping to draw out the saliva in the mouth and the other fluids in the stomach which are required to mix with the food, they assist it on through the wonderful changes which have to take place before it is taken into the blood and becomes part of the human body. The four classes of foods—heat-givers, flesh-formers, salts, and water—must be represented in our diet, if the body is to be kept in a healthy state.2 Of these four, cookery has chiefly to do with heat-giving and flesh-forming foods; and it will be observed that in- clination leads us to couple foods together, so that one may supply what the other wants. For example, veal 1 Directions for making a cheap filter are given at page 89. It should, however, be noted that a filter only removes solid matter, such as gravel, sand, etc., but it cannot take away the more danger- ous matters which arc often dissolved in the water, such as sewage, lead, etc. a The chief elements of the body are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon and salts. A certain amount of these, after undergoing various changes and combinations, passes off from the body daily and is replaced as follows :—oxygen, chiefly by the air entering the body by the lungs ; hydrogen, chiefly in the form of water; nitrogen, by flesh-forming or nitrogenous foods; carbon, by warmth-giving or carbonaceous foods ; and salts, by the salts mentioned above.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD, 15 and poultry are flesh-formers, but are deficient in heat- giving material, therefore we take bacon with them. Pork is very fat, therefore we take peas pudding with it. To corn-flour, tapioca, &c., we add milk, and so on. A General Statement of the Component Parts of our Chief Foods. Warmth-giving Materials. 1 Flesh-forming | Materials, j Minerals or Salts. Animal Foods. Milk contains Eggs Meat (includ- ing fat), . | Cream (fatty). 1 Yolk (fatty). Fat. Skim milk. White of egg. The lean part. Various salts. Hardly any salts ; the shell which makes the bones of the chicken con- tains limeand other salts. A very small quantity. Wheat con- tains, . . Much starch. Considerable flesh-forming material, Lime and other salts. Oats contain, Do. do. Much do. Do. do. tn •a Peas and beans con- tain, . . Less starch. Do. do. Do. do. 0 ii* V •—1 •e Potato con- tains, . . Tapioca ^ 0 Much starch. Verylittlefiesh- forming ma- terial. Various salts. -4-> v bn <D > Sago . -Is Arrowroot ( g Corn flour) 3 Garden vege-A Much starch. Hardly any. Hardly any. i tables, roots ( and leaves j contain, .) Some starch. Very little. Salts plentiful. Fruits contain Sugars. ... A little.16 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. The chief lesson to be learned from this chapter is, that different classes of food must be represented in the daily diet, and that variety of food is essential to health. A second important lesson is, that food which will form flesh is to be found not only in milk, eggs, and butcher meat, but also in vegetable food, especially in pulses and in grains (wheat, barley, oats, &c.), and this food in these pulses and grains is much cheaper than the same kind of food when bought in the form of animal food. CHAPTER II. THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. Food is cooked that it maybe made acceptable to the taste, and digestible. The chief modes of cooking are roasting, broiling, boiling, stewing, baking, and frying. Of these modes, boiling is the most digestible ; roasting the most nutri- tious ; stewing the most economical. In this chapter we shall treat of foods as commonly known, viz., animal food (including milk and eggs) and vegetable food. These require very different management in cooking. Two general rules may be laid down— 1. Meat, milk, and eggs should be cooked at a moderate heat (about i6o° Fahr.). 2. Vegetables (including grains) should be cooked for a short time at least at boiling point (212 Fahr.). 1. Animal food. Every one knows that when an e^g is boiled for four minutes the white becomes quite sofid. The material of which white of egg consists is called albumen. Similar substances exist largely in milk, in fish, and in lean meat, but not in fat. If milkTHE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. 1 17 is cooked at boiling point this substance turns into a tough skin ; and if fish and meat are cooked too long at boiling point the juice hardens and the fibre becomes tough rags. Meat is not only unpalatable when thus hardened, but is less digestible. Meat to be made into soup must be differently treated from meat to be served as a joint. To make soup, we must draw the juices out of the meat, and for this purpose the meat must be cut into small pieces, put on with cold water and salt to draw out the juices, slowly warmed, then simmered—not boiled. If, however, the meat is to be cooked for eating, we must on the contrary keep in the juices. This is done by exposing the meat for a few minutes to a strong heat which hardens the albumen on the surface, and so forms a case which keeps the juices from running out. The special modes of forming this casing will be found in the general directions for the different ways of cooking. Salted meat, however, should be cooked without this process of hardening, and should be put on with cold water, to soften the fibre and draw out some of the salt. The power of salt to draw out fluids causes salted meats to be much less nutritious than fresh meats; because not only is the fibre har- dened by the salt, but the nourishing fluids are drawn out, and are thrown away with the brine. Salt does not affect fat in the same way—hence well-cooked fat bacon is more digestible than ham. Hard water is best for boiling fresh meat for eating, as the lime in it helps to harden the outer surface. Soft water is best for soup and salt meat, as it does not exercise the same hardening effect. The water in which meat is boiled should be used as stock for soups or gravies, as certain of the nutritive properties of the meat are found in it.is THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. The finer pieces of meat which are juicy and tender in fibre are generally roasted or boiled, as these pro- cesses serve to retain the juices, and sufficiently soften the fibre. Coarser and hard pieces should be stewed, as long, slow heat is needed to soften them. Gristly pieces should be slowly boiled or stewed ; because it is only when cooked with liquid that the gristle can become soft. Dry heat, as in roasting, whether before the fire or in the oven, makes gristle tough like leather. Fish contains less albumen than most kinds of animal food; but the same general principle of cookery should be applied to it. The oily kinds, such as mackerel, herring, and salmon, the most nutritious though least digestible, are best suited for grilling. In white fish the oil is principally contained in the liver, which is generally removed from the fish, but may be used in various ways. White fish are gener- ally boiled, fried, or baked. The liquor in which fish is boiled should be used as stock for soup, as there is much nutriment in it, and it is to be regretted that it is so generally thrown away. 2. Vegetables.—Vegetables, especially grains, con- tain a large quantity of starch, which is most unwhole- some as an article of diet, unless the grains are swollen and burst. To accomplish this, it must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and be subjected, for a few minutes at least, to a high degree of heat. The liquid is, in certain preparations, supplied in the form of fat which melts with heat. Suet, butter or dripping may be mixed with flour; but great care must be taken to have the fat very finely mixed with the flour, as when this is not done the flour cakes together, and the melted fat cannot reach it to assist in bursting the grains. For this reason, short crust isADAPTATION OF FOOD. 19 more wholesome than puff paste, as in the former the starch and fat are .more thoroughly mixed. The use of baking powder makes pastry, etc., lighter. In cooking garden vegetables, the heat should reach boiling point, not only because the starch cells must be burst, but because there is a good deal of confined air in vegetables which it is desirable by this means to set free. The water may, however, after five or. ten minutes, be reduced to slow boiling, as the full boiling point has the effect of hardening the woody fibre ot which vegetables consist largely. The bursting of the starch cells can be carried out at a somewhat lower heat (170° or 180° Fahr.). The cooking of garden vegetables in hard water helps to hold in the nourish- ing juices; but it is at the risk of the lime in the water hardening the woody fibre. Therefore, while hard water makes vegetables more nutritious, soft water makes them more digestible. CHAPTER III. THE ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO VARYING CIRCUMSTANCES. Hunger and thirst are instincts which indicate to us that food is required ; taste is a sense which assists us in selecting food; but as the stomach can be trained to bad as well as to good habits, it is necessary to exercise intelligence, not only in choosing food, but in adapting its use to the varying circumstances of life. Food should be adapted to I. Different ages. II. Different climates. III. Different employments. IV. Different states of health.20 ADAPTATION OF FOOD. I. Different Ages. Infants shciiM, if possible, be fed on their mother’s milk. When circumstances prevent this, substitutes are required for which special recipes and directions will be found at p. 148. The food of children from weaning to the age of seven or eight years should consist, chiefly of milk and eggs taken separately or made into well-cooked puddings, with bread, semo- lina, macaroni, rice, etc. Their digestion is not strong enough to eat much vegetable or animal food as these contain much fibre, which is more difficult o digest. Meat, fish, soups, and vegetables should, however, be occasionally given in small quantities. Fixed hours for meals are important, as when regu- arl) given the stomach becomes prepared to receive them. I he intervals should not be longer than four hours.1 \ oung persons (say from eight to twenty years of age) require a larger quantity of all kinds of food m proportion to their size than full-grown persons. he exercise natural to the young uses up much of the heat-giving foods, and increases the waste of the body ; the digestion of the young is generally active; and, besides, fresh materials are in constant demapd to provide for the growth of the body. They should have meals of warm food (more easily digested than cold) at intervals of about four hours; the chief meal—dinner Children should from the first be taught to chew their food well not only to break down the fibre of meat but to mix the soft starchy foods with saliva, and thus enable them to undergo the first important change in preparing them to become part of the human body. Children should not be enccuraged to eat between meals, as it spoils the appetite for regular food. If really hungry, a piece of dry bread only should be given, as this will satisfy a child s hunger without tempting it to eat unduly at irregular hours.ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 21 should be in the middle of the day. Milk and eggs should still form a large part of the diet, also farin- aceous food, especially oatmeal porridge. Stimulants, such as tea and coffee, should, if taken, be weak; coffee with two-thirds milk. Healthy adults should be able to take a free mixture of all wholesome foods, variously cooked, and taken at intervals of about five hours. I he circum- stances of climate and employment must, however, be considered. The digestive powers of elderly people are weaker than in middle life, the food should, therefore, be nourishing and easy of digestion \ it should be taken warm and at shorter intervals than in middle life. As the system is apt to become lowered during the night a light nourishing supper is advisable, and in cases of debility, also a little warm food during the night. II. Climate. More exercise is usually taken in cold than in hot climates, and this causes a more rapid wearing out of the materials of the body. 1 he increased rapidity of breathing caused by exercise, promotes the mixture of the oxygen of the air with the minute particles of food in the blood, and so uses or burns up more of these, and causes demand for increased supplies of food. Animal food is stimulating and exciting; it is there- fore more suitable for cold and temperate climates than for hot. When a false appetite is created for it in hot climates by the use of condiments, it is apt to produce various disorders. Fat is not easily digested unless exercise is taken freely : more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce heat than is required for starches and sugars. There is more oxygen in the airADAPTATION OF FOOD. 22 in cold than in hot weather. It is in cold weather and climates, therefore, that fat can be most easily digested and turned into warmth. As cold contracts the pores of the skin, there is then much less escape of moisture than when the weather is warm. This moisture should be replaced by liquids, fruits, and vegetables, in order that the temperature of the body may be kept uniform. Of the heat-giving foods, starches and sugars are the most suitable for warm climates, as they are easily digested. III. Different Employments. The circumstances of employment affect not only the kinds of food consumed, but the hours of the various meals. In-door Occupations.—Those who are engaged in sedentary occupations cannot, in general, digest so much or so easily as those who are employed in active out-door work. It is, therefore, necessary that they should select foods that give in small bulk the amount of nourishment required, and that these should be served in a light and digestible form. Those engaged in severe mental work shoiM have animal food, if possible, as part of their diet; garden vegetables should be used, but in small quantities, as they are difficult to digest. The fatty heat-giving foods should be repre- sented in their more digestible forms of cream, butter, dripping, or toasted bacon; and the starchy foods, chiefly represented by bread, white or brown, should be freely used; also well-cooked porridge with milk, which is a nourishing, digestible, and cheap food. Clerks and others engaged in offices should take only a light luncheon, and defer dinner till the chief work of the day is over. Many do themselves muchADAPTATION OF FOOD. 23 harm by eating nothing between breakfast and a late dinner. This in some cases leads to more being eaten at dinner than can be properly digested, and in others to a state of exhaustion which indisposes for eating enough. . , Persons engaged in literary pursuits, who have to work in the evening or at night, should dine in the middle of the day, using, if they can afford it, animal food, with a due proportion of the other classes of food mentioned in last chapter. Such work causes much waste of the material of the body, especially of the brain.1 Supper should be light, consisting of cocoa, with bread and butter or biscuits, milk, soup, tripe, fish boiled or fried, onions stewed with milk, stewed macaroni, stewed fruits with rice, etc. It is advisable that those engaged in in-door occu- pations should, when possible, live at some distance from their place of work, as the walk to and fro will promote digestion as well as general health. Out-door Occupations.—The quantity and quality of food required for out-door workers differ considerably from those needed by persons engaged in sedentary occupations. The digestion being in general more vigorous, a larger quantity of food can be consumed. It is, therefore, advisable that a con- siderable proportion of the flesh-forming food should consist of materials drawn from the vegetable king- dom, as haricot beans, peas, macaroni, grain, etc., because these are less rapidly digested than animal food, and require to be taken in considerable quan- tities to supply the necessary amount of flesh-forming power. Further, it is not necessary to make dishes 1 White fish (variously prepared) and onions contain materials which are said to be specially suited to replace the waste of the brain.24 ADAPTATION OF FOOD. for out-door workers light and quickly digestible; it is more important to have them solid and supporting. For example, in suet puddings and dumplings, baking powder and bread crumbs need not be used. Porridge may be made with hot water instead of cold. Crappit heads, fat brose, haggis, poor man’s goose, fried liver and bacon (see recipes), and other nutritious but some- what indigestible articles, may safely form part of the diet of labouring men. Most labourers can obtain cheese, bacon, flour, barley, oatmeal, rice, peas, and beans. With these and with potatoes and fresh vegetables, grown it may be in their own gardens, a few flavouring herbs (as thyme, mint, marjoram, sage, and parsley), which could easily be cultivated in a small garden, they may obtain a thoroughly nutritious and varied diet. Cheese especially ranks near animal food in the amount of nourishment it contains. A dinner of bread and cheese, accompanied by half a lettuce (too little used by the poor), or an apple, water cress, or a few dan- delion leaves, gives all the kinds of food needed to support the body in health. But these materials even when more lightly pre- pared are unsuitable for children’s diet, without the addition of milk, and it is much to be regretted that this important element of diet is so difficult to be obtained in country districts. The custom of allowing each cottager grass for a cow, seems to be rapidly dying out, and one consequence of it is that children are insufficiently nourished. Landed proprietors and tenant farmers could hardly confer a greater benefit upon their cottagers, than by providing a plentiful supply of milk for them to purchase. In places where there is insufficient pasturage for cows, goats might be kept.ADAPTATION OF FOOD. IV. Different States of Health. Diets for those in health are embodied in the pre- ceding remarks. In sickness, much of the progress of the patient towards recovery depends on the giving of judiciously chosen and well prepared food. The digestive powers being generally weakened, food is wanted in smaller quantities, and in a more easily digested form, than in health. Detailed recipes may be found at page 138. The following general remarks indicate the kinds of food required for certain illnesses. In Fevers give liquid (not solid) food in small quantities and frequently; cooling drinks (whey, lemonade, apple water, etc.); butter milk or sweet milk. When the fever lasts long it is sometimes necessary to give beef tea and strong soup to keep up strength. As the fever subsides give milk puddings, gruel, bread and milk, bread jelly, calfs foot or ox foot jelly, arrowroot, fruit jelly, beef tea, and soup. In convalescence give broiled or boiled (not fried) white fish, whiting is best; later give eggs and animal food beginning with tripe and mutton. In fever, more perhaps than in any other disease, diet should be regulated by the doctor, as relapses are often produced by irregularity of diet. Rheumatic Fever. Give entirely vegetable diet, vegetable soups, milk puddings, gruel, arrow- root, jelly, porridge, mashed potatoes, bread and butter, lemon juice in water, but without sugar. If meat is given, either solid or in soups, it aggravates the pain. Dysentery and Diarrhoea. Give neither fruits nor green vegetables ; avoid meat, especially salted or dried. Give milk (previously boiled), milk puddings,ADAPTATION OF FOOD. 26 rice water, boiled rice, and, occasionally a mealy potato boiled or roasted. Constipation. Give brown bread, fresh and stewed fruits, green vegetables, including lettuces, water cress, dandelion leaves. A tumbler of cold water an hour before breakfast is occasionally recom- mended. Indigestion and Stomach Complaints. If a doctor is in attendance the diet will of course be regulated; but where there is no doctor the sufferer may be cautioned generally against the use of the following articles of diet, which are difficult of diges- tion:—flatulent vegetables (as peas, beans, cabbage); fat and greasy dishes, warmed up meats, too many sweet dishes, and much tea. Give digestible food plainly dressed; in meats prefer mutton and tripe; give stale or toasted bread, rice, white fish, spinach, vege- table marrow, the flower of cauliflower or brocoli, fruit (if taken at all) only in the morning and quite ripe. Milk generally requires to be mixed with warm water or with potash, soda, or lime water; half a tumbler of warm water (not hot) taken during dinner or half an hour after it, promotes digestion. Colds and Influenza. Avoid much solid food. Take soft food such as bread and milk, milk puddings, and soups, also warm drinks to produce perspiration, as gruel, oatmeal drink, tea, (not coffee as it checks perspiration). Beef Tea is of much value during most severe illnesses, as patients can often take it when nothing else is acceptable. It is however not sufficient alone to sustain strength for any length of time; it is only one part of meat, and unless the fibre of meat (or some other flesh-forming food corresponding to meat) and warmth-giving food are given soon, the patient27 ADAPTATION OF FOOD. will suffer from partial starvation. The same remarks apply to ox or calfs’ feet jelly. Tea is useful in a sick room when properly made and used, and is preferable to coffee. It should never be given in the evening or at night, as it pre- vents sleep, but a cup of tea early in the morning is generally most refreshing to a restless or suffering person. For recipe see page 136. The following books are recommended to students who desire to study the science of food further. Personal Care of Health, E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R. S., is., Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Animal Physiology, J. G. M‘Kendrick, M.D., F.R.S.E., is. 6d., W. and R. Chambers. Manual of Physiology, W. B. Carpenter, M.D., 12s. 6d., J. and A. Churchill. Practical Physiology, E. Lankester, M.D., LL.D., F. R.S., 4s., Hardwicke and Bogue. Physiology of Common Life, G. H. Lewes, 12s., Wm. Black- wood and Sons. Treatise on Food and Dietetics, F. W. Pavy, M.D., F.R.S., 15s., Simpkin, Marshall and Co. Lectures on Food, H. Letheby, M.B., M.A., 6s., Bailliere, Tindall and Cox. Food, A. H. Church, M.A., Oxon., 3s., Chapman and Hall. Practical Dietary, E. Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S., 3s. 6d., Walton and Maberly. Manual of Diet in Health and Disease, T. King Chambers, 10s. 6d., Smith, Elder and Co. Human Health, Robley Dunglison, M.D., 14s., Lea and I Blanchard. Chemistry of Common Life, J. F. W. Johnston, M.A., ns. 6d., Wm. Blackwood and Sons. The Management of Infancy, Andrew Combe, M.D., 2s. 6d., Maclachlan and Stewart.WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 28 PART II. PRACTICAL. I.—TABLES OF IMPERIAL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.1 AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. Used for weighing all articles except gold, silver, etc. 16 Drams (dr.) make i ounce (oz.) 16 Ounces... i pound (lb.) 28 Pounds 1 quarter (qr.) 4 Quarters ,, I hundredweight (cwt). 20 Hundredweights ,, 1 ton. It is useful to remember that— 14 Pounds make 1 stone. 8 Stones 1 hundredweight. 112 Pounds ,, 1 hundredweight. LIQUID MEASURE OF CAPACITY. Used for measuring water, milk, etc. 4 Gills make 1 pint (pt.). 2 Pints 1 quart (qt.). 4 Quarts ,, 1 gallon (gal.). DRY MEASURE OF CAPACITY. Used for measuring grain, seeds, flour, etc. 2 Gallons make 1 peck (pk.). 4 Pecks ,, 1 bushel (bush.). 8 Bushels... ,, 1 quarter (1 qr.) 1 By the Weights and Measures Act of 1878, which came into operation January 1st, 1879, it is declared that no person is allowed to sell by any denomination of weight or measure other than one of the imperial weights or measures. “No local or customary meas- ure, nor the use of the heaped measure, shall be lawful."HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT. 29 HOMELY MEASURES. 2 Tea spoonfuls make 1 dessert spoonful. 2 Dessert spoonfuls >> 1 table spoon u . 1 Heaped table spoonful of solids is about I oz. About 9 table spoonfuls of liquid... make \ pint. A pinch is about the eighth of a tea spoonful. II.—HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT, ETC. Good Beef should be a deep red colour, and the fat a pure white. The finer pieces are generally deli- cately marked with veins of fat. The flesh must be firm, and when pressed with the finger no mark should remain. Good beef should not become moist when kept. Good Mutton should be a deep red colour, and the fat white, not intergrained with the lean, and very hard. Small-boned old mutton is the best. Pork should be white, finely grained, smooth and dry. The fat should be firm, and the rind thin. Young Fowls should have smooth skin and legs, pliable joints and breast-bones, plump breasts and necks, bright-red combs, and the flesh should be finely grained. A Ham. To choose a ham, put a thin-pointed knife into it as close to the bone as possible. If it comes out with any unpleasant smell, and looking oily, the ham is not good. Fish. All fish should be used as soon as possible after it is caught. Some people, however, prefer cod after it has been a night in salt and water, as this makes it firmer. In fresh fish the eyes should always be bright and prominent, the body stiff, the gills a bright red colour. Garden Vegetables should be as fresh as pos-30 NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. sible, and crisp. Potatoes, carrots, and turnips may, however, be kept for some time without injury. Eggs should be as fresh as possible. If there is a doubt about freshness, hold the egg up to a light. If the egg is clear, it is good: if the shell is not trans- parent, or if you see dark spots on it, the egg is bad. To preserve eggs, place newly-laid eggs in layers in a small box, and cover each layer thickly with bran. When the box is full, nail it down and keep it in a dry cool place, turning the box over once a week, to prevent the yolks adhering to the shells. III.—NAMES AND USES OF VARIOUS PIECES OF MEAT. The divisions and names of the pieces of meat given are those in most general use in England and in Scotland ; they, however, vary in different localities. Explanation of diagram of the usual English mode of cutting up an ox :— 1. Check, generally stewed. 2. The neck, or sticking piece, and the clod, used for soups and mincing. 3. The chuck, * three ribs, used for stewed steak. 4. The middle rib, four ribs, generally roasted; an economical roast. 6 The ^sirloin' ^ j l*le ^est loast‘ng piece 7. The rump, the best part for steaks. 8. The aitch bone, generally boiled. 9. The bu tock or round, generally salted, sometimes roasted. 10. The mouse buttock or round, generally salted. 11. The leg, stewed; stock for soup. 12. The thick flank, generally boiled. 13. The thin flank, generally boiled. 14. The brisket, generally salted and boiled. 15. The shoulder or leg of mutton piece.NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. 31NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. Explanation of diagram of the usual Scotch mode of cutting up an ox :— i a. Cheek. IB. Chip, generally used for hare-soup. 2. Neck,' used for soups, stews. 3 and 4, Spare ribs, generally roasted ; sometimes stewed. 5. The ribs, roasted; sometimes honed, rolled, and salted. 6. First runner. This is cut close by the shoulder-bone, and is used for boiling or stewing. 7 and 8. Also runners. These two are sometimes divided across by the dotted line, and the fleshy end (next the head) used for stewing, boiling, or beefsteak pie, and the thin end salted. Sometimes only two runners are cut, sometimes only one. 9. Nine holes, used chiefly for pickling, sometimes for plain boiling or stewing; not so fat as the brisket. 10. Brisket, stewed or corned. 11. Marrow bone. 12. Hough or shin, used for soup; the flesTiy end is good for slewing. 13. Sirloin, cut generally into three parts, called the double side, middle cut (or Scotch and English), and the thin end. 14. Thin flank, used for boiling; often salted. 15 Thick plank or fleshy end of heuck-bone, used for stewing . steak, or salted and rolled, also for pies; no bone in it. 16. Heuck bone, best for gridiron steak. 17. Rump, generally boned and salted; sometimes stewed with the bone in, or boiled. It is used in France forpot-au-feu. 18. The round. This weighs about 30 to 40 lbs.; the upper part is sometimes cut into steaks. Sometimes the whole is cut into two rounds; a thick flap of fat, called the shaugh, is left to roll round the bare side of the bone. 19. Used for mince, stew, or beef tea. Explanation of English mode of cutting up a sheep :— 1. The leg, roasted or boiled. 2. The loin, chump end, generally stewed. 3. The loin, best end, made into chops. 4. The neck, best end, made into chops. 5. The neck, scrag end; soup, stews. b. The head, boiled; made into soup. 7. The breast, stewed. 8. The shoulder, generally baked, sometimes roasted. [Two loins make a saddle.]NAMES ETC. OF PIECES OF MEAT. 33 The usual Scotch mode of cutting up a sheep. Explanation of Scotch mode of cutting up a sheep:— 1. Gigot, leg, or haunch; roasted or boiled. 2. Loin. This is the finest piece for chops; sometimes roasted. 3. Flank or flap, used for soup or cheap stews. 4. The back-ribs and neck, used for chops, stews, and soup. 5. The brisket or breast, generally stewed.34 TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. 6. The shoulder. When 4 and 5 are not cut through at the black line which separates them, the shoulder may be removed at the dots, and it is generally baked, sometimes roasted. If a large shoulder is wanted, cut it off close to the bone; if, on the other hand, it is desired to leave the meat beneath for chops, the shoulder should be taken off by the seam. 7. The head, boiled; use l for broth. 8. The shank, used for soup; sometimes stewed. 9. The trotters, made into broth with the head; sometimes stewed. IV.—TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. Range or Grate.—Clear out the fire-place, pick out all the cinders for future use, throw away the ashes. With a long brush sweep the soot down from the chim- ney as far as you can reach. It it is a close range, sweep out all the Hues with bmshes for the purpose. Blackleading.—If there is any grease on the range or grate wash it off with very hot water in which a little soda has been melted; dry. Mix some black- lead to a stiff paste with water, dip the brush in it, and brush the grate and bars, putting more blacklead on the brush when required. Let the grate become quite dry ; then with a dry' brush rub off as much of the blacklead as possible; polish the grate thoroughly with a soft brush, using it lightly and beginning at the top of the grate. ., ,. Brass Knobs.— Rub these either with polishing paste or with bath brick dust and water mixed into a paste. Dip a drv soft cloth in a little dry brick dust, and polish the knobs. Chamois leather is preferable to cloth. . Steel. Rub steel well with emery paper, then polish with chamois leather. , . . . To lay (i.e., prepare) a Fire.— The chief thing to attend to in laying a fire is to leave spaces for air, as35 TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. after the light is put to the fire, it is the mixture of one part of air (oxygen), with the fuel, that enables the fire to burn. Put two or three cinders in the bottom of the fireplace with spaces between; crumple up looselypieces of paper and lay them in next. Then place well dried sticks loosely one across another. Finally, lay lightly some larger cinders on the top. Light the fire, and let it catch thoroughly before adding coal and more cinders. Iron Pans.—Wash thoroughly outside and inside with hot water and soda. Rub the inside with a washing cloth or pot range1 with soap and sand and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water; dry. It onions have been cooked in the pan, the odour may be removed by using fine ashes instead of sand. Enamelled Pans.—Wash well inside and outside with boiling water and soda. Then rub the inside with crushed egg shells, soap, and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water; dry. Brass Pans.—If the pans have stood unused for some time, rub them with vinegar and salt to remove any verdigris. Clean with polishing paste, or with bath brick dust and water, then rinse well out with hot water and polis with a soft cloth or chamois leather. Copper Pans.—Rub a grated and squeezed lemon skin with soap, and dip it in brick dust. Clean the outside of the pan with this or with vinegar and salt, till the copper is quite bright. Do not use any acid for the inside. Clean it with sand and soap, then with soap and water alone. Rinse well with hot water; dry. Copper pans are not required for any recipes given in this book. 1 Chiefly used in Scotland. It consists of a bunch of stifl fine twigs or heather roots, cut evenly across and tightly tied together.TO CLEANSE UTENSILS. 36 If pans of all kinds cannot be cleaned immediately after using them, let them stand filled with cold water. Tins.—Wash with hot water and soda. Make a paste of whitening and water; dip a cloth into this, rub the tins well with it, taking care to clean all the crevices. When dry rub it off with a second cloth, and then polish, using a little dry whitening. Chamois leather polishes best. Cake Tins.—Do not wash or polish the inside of these; they should be scraped if anything is sticking to them, and then rubbed with a dry cloth. Knives and Forks.—Wipe the knives and forks with a dish cloth ; if greasy, dip in hot water and soda, taking care not to wet the handles ; dry. Rub the knife board with the brick dust, rub all parts of the blade on it, taking care that the sharp edge does not come against the board. Rub the forks with a cloth and dry brick dust. Polish both knives and forks with a dry cloth, taking care to remove all the brick dust between the prongs. If the forks have a flavour about them of fish, onions, &c., this may be removed by sticking them into earth or powdered ashes. Tables and Shelves.—Wash first with warm water and a coarse flannel cloth. Sprinkle over some coarse sand, rub the scrubbing brush with soft soap, brush the wood, rubbing with the grain if possible. Wash the wood over again with warm water and a flannel cloth. If there is grease on the wood, add a little soda to the first wann water. Plates, Dishes, &c.—Remove all scraps from the plates; place them in hot water, rub each thoroughly with a dish cloth. Then rinse in clean warm water, dip into cold water and place it to drain. It is not necessary to dry them with a cloth.TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES. 37 Crystal.—Wash in lukewarm water; dip into cold water; drain; dry with a linen cloth, then polish with a dry linen towel or chamois leather. Clean Water Bottles by putting tea leaves, fine ashes or potato parings into them with luke-warm water. Shake well, empty, rinse with cold water, dry and polish. V.—TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES. Old Potatoes cooked in their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Old Potatoes cooked without their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. With a small- pointed knife (a potato knife costs about 4d.) pare the skin very thin, as the best part is next the skin ; cut out the eyes, taking care not to take a slice of potato with them. Place the potatoes in cold water as they are pared, to preserve the colour. New Potatoes.—Wash well in cold water; rub with a rough towel to remove the skin; place in cold water till required. Cabbage, Cauliflower, and Lettuce.—Re- move the coarse outer leaves. To remove earth and insects, place the vegetables in plenty of cold water, with about a desert spoonful of salt to a quart of water, for about half an hour. Carrots.—Wash and brush well in cold water; scrape them downwards (towards the narrow end). If carrots are to be served as a vegetable, cut each into two or three pieces ; if they are to be used for soups, cut into small square pieces; if they are to be fried, cut into slices. Put the cut-up pieces into cold water till required. If they are to be fried, dry each piece carefully.38 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—ROASTING. Turnips.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Pare thickly, so far as a line a little in from the skin. The part next the skin is stringy, indigestible, and bitter. Cut up in the way directed for carrots, and lay in water till required. Onions.—Skin. Before onions are cooked, they must be “ prepared ” in the following way, to make them digestible :—Place them in a basin, cover them with boiling water, and add a piece of washing soda, the size of a pea. In about a quarter of an hour the water will become quite green. Pour this away. If the onions are to be used for soup, cut them in four, downwards, and then into small pieces ; if they are to be fried, cut them into thin slices, and dry them well. French Beans.—Remove the strings from each side; cut each bean slanting into two or three pieces. Place in water till required. Spinach.—Wash well in cold water. Double each leaf together, and tear off the stalk with its continua- tion down the back of each leaf. VI.—GENERAL DIRECTIONS. Roasting. Meat for roasting should be kept hanging till the fibre becomes tender. The length of time required depends on the state of the weather and the season, ranging from a few days, or, in summer even a few hours, to three or four weeks in a dry cold winter. In frosty weather the meat must be brought into the kitchen for a few hours, before using it, to soften it. To ascertain the length of time required for roasting, weigh rhe Treat and allow in roasting one quarter of an hour Co each pound and one quarter of an hourGENERAL DIRECTIONS—ROASTING. 39 over. If, however, the piece of meat is very thick, allow half an hour over. Young and white meat (veal, lamb, pork) require twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. They are unwhole- some when underdone. Sweep up the hearth, and make up a large fire in a well-polished fireplace an hour before it is wanted, so as to have it bright and glowf :ig. Do not let the fire go down while the meat is roasting : add small pieces of coal or large cinders occasionally, so as to keep it up. Hang the meat by the small end to the hook of the jack. When there is no jack, the meat may be hooked to a skein of twisted worsted suspended from a hook projected from the mantel-shelf. Wind up the jack, or twist the worsted, so as to make it spin slowly. Place the dripping pan under the joint, if you have a meat screen see that it is bright (so as to throw back the heat upon the joint), and place it before the fire. Meat should be placed for the first ten minutes as near the fire as can be done without scorching, as the great heat hardens the outside, and keeps in the juices. Baste it as soon as the fat melts. Basting prevents the meat becoming dry and scorched. Then withdraw the meat 15 or 18 inches from tire fire, and baste it frequently whilst cooking with the dripping produced by the melting of the fat. A lean piece of meat should be basted with hot dripping melted for the purpose. The meat may be dredged with flour a quarter of an hour before it is quite ready, to make it browner and to thicken the gravy a little. When it is placed on a dish (called in Scotland an ashet), sprinkle it with a little salt. Be- fore making sauce of the brown gravy, pour away the dripping from the dripping pan (keep this dripping for other purposes), add a little boiling water to the browned40 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BROILING. gravy left in the pan, mix well, add a little salt, and pour round the roast. Roasting in the Oven.—This is usually called baking meat. Place the meat in a baking tin in a very hot part of the oven for five minutes to harden the outside and keep in the juice. Baste it as soon as the fat melts; then remove it to a cooler part; place beside it a cup or basin of hot water to keep the air of the oven moist without cooling it. Baste the meat frequently. For the length of time required, see preceding directions. All ovens in which meat is cooked should be properly ventilated in order to allow the escape of an injurious vapour produced by meat when cooked in a close oven. Meat roasted in the oven is not considered so digestible as when roasted before the fire. Roasting in the Pan.—Melt and heat i oz. of dripping in an iron pan.1 Brown all sides of the meat in this, so as to harden the outside and keep in the juices. Then draw the pan aside, and let the meat cook slowly with the lid on, basting it constantly. For the length of time required, see preceding direc- tions. This way of roasting is especially suitable for small pieces of meat, and is economical because of the small quantity of fuel required. Broiling. Broiling is cooking over a hot clear fire on a gridiron. Place a thoroughly clean gridiron over the fire; let it become quite hot, as the hot metal will help to harden the outside of the meat, and so keep in the juices ; rub the gridiron with suet to prevent the meat sticking to it. Place the meat on the hot gridiron, turn it 1 Tinning is apt to melt with the great heat and small amount of moisture.4i GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BOILING. continually, so as to let the inside of the meat cook slowly and so remain tender. Be carelul to put the fork into the fat or skin. If you pierce the lean, you will allow the juices to escape. If tongs are used, do not squeeze the meat. The length of time required depends chiefly on the thickness of the meat to be cooked. A separate gridiron should, if possible, be kept for fish. When the top of the fire cannot be used (as in close ranges), suspend a hanging gridiron in front of the fire with the meat between the two halves of the gridiron, which must be turned with the meat. Steaming. In steaming, the food to be cooked is placed in a tin or earthenware vessel, covered with a tight cover or greased paper.1 The vessel is placed in a pan of boiling water, which comes half way up its side. If the water boils away, more boiling water must be added. Puddings, etc., when steamed, do not require to have so much liquid in them as when baked. The dry air of the oven dries them; steaming keeps them moist. Boiling. Meat covered with water and cooked in it is said to be boiled, but it must not be supposed that the water should be kept at boiling point. Plunge the meat into boiling water (2120 Fahr.), enough to cover it. This hardens the. outside, and keeps in the juices. After the water (cooled by the meat) again comes to the boil, let it remain boiling for about five minutes, then skim carefully, and add cold water, or move the pot to a less hot place, till the water simmers instead of boils (about 170° Fahr.). Draw the pot aside, keep 1 No printed paper should be used in cooking’.GENERAL DIRECTIONS—STEWING. 42 it at this heat till the meat is cooked, allowing a quarter of an hour to each pound, counting from the time the water begins to boil, and one quarter of an hour over. If it is a large piece of meat, allow half an hour over. Add a little salt when the meat is nearly ready. For salt meat or pork allow twenty minutes to each pound. Salt meat is put on with cold water. For fish allow ten minutes to the pound, and, when thick, ten minutes over. Green vegetables should be boiled briskly and without a lid on the pan: this helps to preserve the colour. Stewing. In stewing juicy meats the outside should be hardened by browning (see page 46) in order to keep in the juices. The meat is then placed in a stewpan and a small quantity of hot water or stock poured round it. This is slowly warmed and then allowed to simmer slowly, and must on no account be allowed to boil. Stewing chiefly differs from boiling in the quantity of water used, and in the length of time of cooking. The juice that is drawn out of the meat is served in the gravy. Coarse pieces of meat may be made tender by careful and long stewing, but they should not be browned. If very tpugh, they may be dipped in vinegar to soften the fibre. Gristly pieces should be put on with cold water and simmered till tender, but not allowed to boil fast. Another and a good way of slewing is to put the stew in a stone jar with a closely fitting lid, or cover of greased paper. The jar is placed on the hob, or in a slow oven, or i:i a sauce pan with water kept boiling round it.general DIRECTIONS-FRYING. 43 Frying. Frying is cooking in hot fat. Tne ordinary bat wrong way of frying is to use a shallow frying pan and a small quantity of fat. This is extravagant and un- wholesome. Put into a stew-pan enough fat to cover the article to be cooked. Make the fat hot. It is at the proper heat when it is quite still and a slight vapour rises from it; do not wait till it smokes, for then it will burn. The fat may also be tested by- putting into it a small piece of crumb of bread ; if it becomes quickly a golden colour, the fat is at the right heat. Prepare the pieces to be cooked by covering them with a coating of egg and bread crumbs, or flour and milk, or flour and water. This covering hardens with heat, and makes a case to hold m the juices and also prevents the fat getting in and making the meat greasy. Do not have the pieces thicker than about an inch, unless the materials have been previously cooked Put them into the hot fat, but not many at a time, as the fat would be too much cooled. When they become a golden colour remove them ; place them for a few seconds on kitchen paper near the fire to absorb the fat, and then serve.1 .. , A A Oil, butter, lard, and dripping, or clarified tat, are, used for frying. Oil and butter are very expensive, and should only be used in high class cookery ; laid is apt to make what is fried in it greasy; dripping or clarified fat is the most suitable for use m an ordinary kitchen. . .. Dry Frying.—In dry frying a very small quantity of fat is used, and it is usually done in a fiying pan ; i A frying basket made of wire, and fitting the stew-pan is very convenient. The pieces arc laid in the basket and it is placed in the hot fat till they are cooked.44 GENERAL DIRECTIONS—BAKING. the meat or vegetables should be frequently turned to prevent hardening. Bacon does not require fat at all as its own melting fat is sufficient. Chopped vege- tables, such as cabbages and potatoes mixed (the bubble without the squeak), are excellent food, with a nttle flnppmg, and may be done in a frying-pan. Cold pudding may be cut in slices and fried in this way. Baking. Baking is cooking by means of heated air in a confined space called an oven. Bread, cakes, and pastry are usually cooked in this way. As a general rule, anything containing starchy materials, as flour, airowroot, etc., should, if not previously boiled, be first placed in a hot part of the oven to burst the starchy grains and enable them to mix thoroughly with the surrounding liquid; they should then be removed to a cooler part, to cook slowly without scorching. If pastry is put at first into a cool part of the oven, the fat melts; but as the starch grains of the flour are not burst, they cannot absorb the fat, which runs out and makes the paste greasy and heavy. 1 he proper management of an oven must be the result of experience, as it is impossible to give exact rules. A large brick oven gives the most steady heat. Iron ovens become easily overheated, and small iron ones are apt to scorch what is cooked in them unless carefully regulated. Therefore, bread should be divided into smaller loaves when baked in a small oven, to prevent the outside being browned while the inside is still uncooked. 1 o test an oven, put into it a piece of stale crumb of bread; if in five minutes it is a golden colour, the oven is hot enough for cooking pastry or bread; if, on the contrary, the bread becomes dry and only slightlyGENERAL DIRECTIONS—BAKING. 45 coloured, the oven is of a moderate heat, and suitable for browning puddings, etc. Another test is to put a piece of kitchen or writing paper into the oven it it curls up in about a minute, the oven is hot enough tor b Where there is no oven, puddings may be browned before the fire. Meat, puddings, and even pastry, may be cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire. Dutch Oven. Scones, oat-cakes, etc., may be cooked on a girdle (much used in Scotland) instead of in an oven. Girdle.46 SOUPS. Explanation of various terms :— rJfvbr'a* f)our is.t0 very gradually a small quantity of cold liquid, stirring it until it is smooth. y together ^ * miXtU1"e “ t0 add milk or eSg to make it hold - fT° l>’'mvn meat’ etc-> is to place it in a small quantity of hot l.and not turn it until the part is brown. , 'ko ,rice is ,to Put. >t on in cold water and bring it to the boil. This bursts the grains of starch. • T°j!e™ cu]rrants ’,s to r.ub them (the stalks being previously picked) in a damp cloth till clean, or to sprinkle a little Hour over them and rub them in a dry rough cloth. To core is to remove the heart of an apple or pear; this is e.ther done when the apple is whole with a special utensil called a corer, or, after it is quartered, with a knife. To grease a dish, paper, etc., is to rub soft fat, such as dripping or butter over it. It is best to grease a dish with the fingers or a piece of paper, and to spread the fat on paper with a knife. To parboil is to boil anything until half cooked. I o scald vegetables, etc., is to pour boiling water over them for a few minutes, and then throw away the water. To scald milk is to bring it almost, but not quite, to the boil. 1 o shred suet is to cut it with a sharp knife so thinly as to be almost scraping; the suet should be so thin as to curl up. To wash rice, barley, etc., is to pour cold water over them, stir and pour off the water, repeating this till the water poured off is quite clear. VII.—SOUPS. Although many of the following soups can be made with water, they will be richer and more nourishing if, instead of water, they are made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled, liquor from the stockpot, stock made with a few cooked or uncooked bones, or gravy left over from stews. The flavour of soup may be inexpensively varied by any of the following herbs, either used separately or one sprig of several of them may be tied together in a small bunch and put in the soup and removed before serving: sorrel, parsley,47 SOUPS. sage, mint, thyme, marjoram, and bay leaf. Celery seed is also a pleasant flavouring and inexpensive. About half a teaspoonful may be used, tied loosely m a piece of muslin, and removed before serving. Stockpot.—Put into a goblet or stockpot all odd scraps of meat, cooked and uncooked, which cannot be used otherwise ; pieces of skm ; bones (chopped into small pieces), cooked or uncooked Cover with plenty of water, simmer slowly but steadily beside the fire. This should furnish material for sauces and soup ; pieces of bread, cold vegetables, remains of sauces, &c., should be used up to thicken and flavour it. an winter the stockpot should be entirely cleared out once a week, and in summer twice a week. Pan Kail.—Required: i oz. barley; % turnip; i leek; J4 small cabbage; J/z carrot; ^4 oz. dripping, 3 pints water; >4 teaspoonful salt; % teaspoo ul pepper; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Cleanse the vegetables as directed at page 37. Wash the carley in several waters and soak it for two hours, then put it into the r quart of cold water with the dripping, pepper and salt. While this is coming to the boil, chop the cabbage and leek together, put them into a bowl and pour boiling water over them ; cover the bowl, and let them stand ten minutes. T his draws out the indigestible part of the green vegetables. Pour away this' water; chop the turnip and half of the piece of carrot. As soon as the water with the barley in it comes quite to the boil, skim it carefully, add all the chopped vegetables gradually and bring again to the boil. Let the whole boil slowly for about i This is the laurus nobilis or sweet bay, sometimes called the sweet scented laurel. It must not be conlused with the cerasus laurocerasus, called the common bay or cherry laurel, which has the flavour ot bitter almonds, and is, when used in excess, very hurtful.SOUPS. 48 two hours, being careful not to let it go off the boil. When it is about half cooked, grate the other half of the piece of carrot; add this and the sugar. If the kail is too thick, and you wish to add water, be sure that the water added is boiling. Broth.—Make it in the same way as pan kail, but take 2 quarts of water instead of il/>; and instead of dripping put in some bones, or a small piece of neck of mutton, or a piece of beef, or a well cleansed sheep’s head. If a sheep’s head be used, not less than 4 quarts of broth should be made with vegetables in proportion. It takes at least four hours to cook. When you take it out of the broth sprinkle over it some bread raspings, put some little bits of dripping on it, and brown it before the fire. Potato Soup.—Required 1 lb. potatoes ; 1 onion; 2 oz. dripping; 1quarts water; teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper; y± teaspoonful sugar. Wash, pare, slice and parboil the potatoes; skin and scald the onion; chop it. Place the potatoes, onion, dripping, pepper and salt in the cold water; bring to the boil and boil till quite soft (about ^ an hour). Crush the potatoes and onion with a fork or spoon till smooth. Add the sugar and let the soup boil up again. Instead of an onion, half a carrot (grated) may be used. If the soup is wanted richer, half a pint of milk may be added (after the potatoes are crushed) instead of the same amount of water. Peas Soup. —Required: lb. split peas; 2 oz. dripping; 1 piece of soda (size of large pea); 3 pints water; Y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper; ^ tea- spoonful sugar. Soak the peas overnight in cold water, with the piece of soda to soften them; pour away the water, with any of the peas floating on it; place the peasSOUPS. 49 with the dripping in a pan with the three pints of cold water; bring to the boil; boil slowly till the peas are quite soft (about four hours); crush the peas with a spoon till smooth; add the salt, pepper, and sugar; boil up again. Serve with small squares of dry toast. A teaspoonful of dry powdered mint may be served with the soup ; or it may be flavoured with half a tea- spoonful of curry powder broken with cold water, and added to the soup an hour before it is ready. Haricot Bean Soup.—Required: lb. haricot beans; i oz. dripping; r piece of soda (size of large pea); i pint milk; 2 pints water; Y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper; Y teaspoonful sugar. Prepare in the same way as peas soup, except that the beans should be rubbed through a colander to keep back the skins (which are difficult to digest, though nourishing), and the milk added before boiling up again. 1 oz. dripping may be used instead of milk. Lentil Soup.—Required: Y? lb. lentils; 2 oz. dripping; 3 pints water; x oz. flour; x pinch pepper; Y teaspoonful salt. Egyptian lentils are best. Soak the lentils all night in plenty of cold water; next morning stir them well up, as there is generally a good deal of earth about them ; pour off the water; if not clean wash them repeatedly. Put them into the three pints of cold water with the salt and pepper; boil till quite soft—from two to three hours. Put the dripping in a very small pan; let it melt and brown a little ; stir in the flour. Stir in gradually a teacupful of the soup ; put the mixture into the pan with the lentils and water; cook for ten minutes longer, and serve hot. An onion is an improvement to this soup. Milk Soup.—Required: 1 lb. potatoes; 1 oz.SOUPS. 5° crushed sago; 2 onions; 1 pint milk; 1 quart water; teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. A\ ash, pare, slice, and parboil the potatoes; pour away the water; skin and scald the onions; chop them. Place the potatoes, onions, pepper and salt in the quart of cold water; bring to the boil, and boil till quite soft (about half an hour). Crush the potatoes and onions with a fork or spoon till smooth ; add the milk and the crushed sago, stir constantly till it boils, then boil for about ten minutes—that is, till the sago is quite clear and cooked. This soup may be made richer by adding 1 oz. of butter or dripping to the quart of cold water; also by putting a yolk of an egg well beaten in the tureen, and mixing the cooked soup slowly with it. The soup must be off the boil, or the egg will curdle. Cabbage Soup.— Required: 1 small cabbage; 2 large potatoes ; 1 oz. dripping; 2 quarts hot water; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Cleanse the cabbage (see page 37); cut it into very thin shreds and scald them. Wash, pare, slice, and parboil the potatoes, and pour away the water. Put the cabbage, potatoes, dripping, pepper, and salt in two quarts of hot (not boiling) water; boil very fast for half an hour; draw to one side of the fire, and cook slowly for an hour and a half longer. Crush the vegetables with a fork; boil up again; serve with small squares of dry toast. If desired, r oz. of dry grated cheese may be put into the soup tureen before the soup is poured into it. Onion Soup.—Required: 2 onions; 2 oz. dry grated cheese; iy oz. flour; 2 oz. dripping; 3 pints cold water ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Skin and scald the onions; let them become cold and quite dry. Cut into thin slices and dry them ; frySOUPS. 51 gSfigiSISaaS? “Cmore delicate soup is wanted, pass it through a colander when ready,- to keep back the pieces Town Vegetable Soup.-tf^r a amll carrot • 1 small turnip ; 1 small onion , i oz. oatme , I y2 oz. dripping ; 3 pints cold water, yi easp SalCleLsenthe°carrot and turnip ; skin and scald the onion Chop them all very small and dry them with a cloth. Brown the vegetables to a golden colour with the dripping in a stew pan ; put m the oatmeal, staring tin it also fs a golden colour. Draw the pa « side to allow the contents to cool a little. Pour in the cold water gradually, stirring till the whole is quite smooth. Bring to the boil, and boil slowly for at least one hour. Add the pepper and salt a quarter of a hour before serving. , . . , f Any other vegetables may be used instead of the above. Flour may be used instead of oatmeal. Bread Soup.—Required: lb. scraps of bread , 1 oz dry grated cheese 5 1 oz. dripping ; 3 pints cold water; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper; 1 pinch §1 Put thebread in the cold water with the dripping, salt and pepper ; bring slowly to the boil and simmer “Sly ta one and a°half hours. Crush the breadSOUPS. 52 smooth. Add the grated cheese, boil five minutes longer, pour the soup into the tureen, add the grated nutmeg and serve hot. 1 his soup may be made richer by using a yolk of an egg, as in milk soup, page 50. Vegetable Soup.—Required: % cabbage or lettuce; ]2 carrot; y2 turnip; 1 onion or leek ; 1 oz. scraps of bread; 2 quarts water; ^ teaspoonful salt ; y\ teaspoonful pepper. Cleanse and prepare the vegetables ; chop them \ery small. Break the bread into small pieces; put it on with the cold water; bring to the boil; add the other ingredients gradually, so as not to cool the water. Boil slowly for about one and a half hours, until the vegetables are thoroughly soft. Rub the soup through a colander to make it quite smooth. Heat again and serve. Any other vegetables in season may be used instead of those mentioned. The soups may be made richer by putting a well-beaten yolk of egg in the tureen, and gradually stirring the soup in with it. Fish Soup.—Required: 2 quarts of the liquor fish has been boiled in ; the bones, fins, and head ; 2 oz. whole rice ; r tablespoonful finely chopped parsley; 1 small onion; 1 blade mace; y2 teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Place the bones, fins, and head in the liquor; simmer for one hour ; remove them. Skin, scald, and chop the onion; wash the rice; place these in the liquor with the pepper, salt, and mace; simmer from half an hour to three quarters of an hour. Wash the parsley, remove it from the stalks, dry, and chop ; add it ten minutes before the soup is served. Cold cooked fish may be broken into small pieces and served in the soup.SOUPS. 53 Ox-cheek Soup.—Required: i ox cheek; 2 car- rots ; 2 turnips; 2 onions; a small bunch of savoury herbs or U teaspoonful celery seed; 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. dripping; 5 quarts water; 1 tablespoonful vinegar 1 teaspoonful browning; 1 dessert spoonful brow sugar. Soak the cheek all night in salt and cold water, to cleanse it; wash thoroughly in warm water. Remove the soft bones from the nostrils. Cleanse and prepare the carrot and turnips; cut them into small pieces; skin scald, and slice the onions. Dry all the pieces; brown them slightly with the dripping ; pour away the dripping Place the ox-cheek and the vegetables m a lame saucepan with the hot water, flavouring, vinegar, and browning. Bring slowly to the boil, skim care- fully then simmer for about five hours. Break: the flour with cold water. An hour before the soup is ready, draw the pan aside, cool a little, and stir m the flour; then finish the cooking, stirring occasionally, as the flour is apt to stick to the pan. Serve the cheek separately, with a little of the soup as gravy. Two oz. semolina or crushed tapioca may be used instead of the flour. . Ox-tail Soup.—Required: 1 ox tail; 1 oz.’drip- ping; 1 bunch flavouring herbs or % teaspoontul celery seed tied in a small piece of muslin; 1 oz. flour, 2]/2 quarts hot water; y2 teaspoonful browning; teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Divide the tail into joints; remove the fat from it; brown the pieces with the dripping in a stewpan , pour off the dripping; add the water, flavouring and brown- ing. Bring slowly to the boil, skim carefully, then simmer from four to five hours, till the meat is tender. Break the flour with cold water. An hour before the tail is ready, draw the pan aside, cool a little, and stirSOUPS. 54 in the flour. Then finish the cooking, stirring occa- sionally, as the flour is apt to stick to the pan. Serve the soup with the pieces in it, or serve the soup and the pieces separately. Kidney Soup.—Required: an ox kidney or 2 sheep’s kidneys; 2 small turnips or 1 large; 2 small carrots or 1 large; 1 small onion; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; 1 oz. dripping; 2 quarts hot water; 1 table- spoonful ketchup ; x teaspoonful colouring ; 1 tea- spoonful vinegar; ]/2 teaspoonful salt; ]/ teaspoonful pepper. Wash and pare the vegetables; prepare the onion by steeping it for halt an hour in a basin of hot water; pour this water away, and chop the onion. Cut the turnips and carrots into very small square pieces; cut the kidney into very small pieces, sprinkle them with a tablespoonful of flour, and mix well together. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the kidney, and stir for a few minutes; then add the vegetables, salt, pepper, hot water, vinegar, ketchup, and colouring, lioil slowly for three hours, removing the scum when it rises. Mix half a teacupful of cold water gradually into a tablespoonful of flour, stirring it till smooth, and add to the soup. Boil for ten minutes, and serve. Hotch-Potch.—Required: 1 lb. neck of mutton; 1 pint chopped young carrots, turnips, and cauliflower; A lettuce ; y pint green peas ; ^ pint broad beans; 2 onions (previously parboiled) ; 2 quarts water; 1 teaspoonful salt; y> teaspoonful pepper; 2 teaspoon- fuls sugar. Put the meat and the salt on with cold water. When it comes to the boil skim it carefully. Let the cauli- flower and lettuce lie in salt and water for half an hour; break the cauliflower up into little sprigs, and chop the lettuce; shell the peas; shell and skin the beans;55 SOUPS. pare the turnips, scrape the carrots; chop them small with the onions ; put all the vegetables, except one- half pint of peas, into the boiling liquor; boil slowly three or four hours, according to the age of the vegetables. Young vegetables require less boiling than old ones. When the soup is half made, add the rest of the peas and the sugar. When ready, remove the mutton and serve. Serve the mutton separately. Hotch-Potch should be quite thick. If wished, neatly trimmed chops may be added to the soup when it is half cooked, and served in it. Curry Soup.—Required: % lb. rice; 2 small onions or 1 large apple ; x/z teaspoonful cuny pow- der ; 3^ teaspoonful sugar; 1 oz. dripping; 3 pints cold water ; 34. teaspoonful salt. Skin, scald, and chop the onion; pare, quarter, core and chop the apple; wash the rice. Melt the dripping in a stew pan ; brown the onion and apple in it. Draw the pan to the side of the fire ; break the curry powder with a little cold water ; add it, the rice and water, to the pan, stir well. Place on the fire and boil with the lid on till the rice and onion are thoroughly cooked, about three-quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally. The liquor fish has been boiled in may be used instead of water. Economical Brown Soup.—Required: about 2 lbs. roast beef bones; 1 small carrot; 1 small turnip ; 1 small onion; 1 dessert spoonful flour or corn flour; 1 oz. dripping ; 2 quarts cold water; 1 tablespoonful ketchup ; 3^ teaspoonful browning; 3's teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Cleanse, prepare, and slice the vegetables (see page 37); break the bones into several pieces. Brown the vegetables with the dripping in a saucepan; draw it56 SOUPS. to the side of the fire, add the bones, water and seasoning; simmer gently for 3 or 4 hours, skimming . carefully. Half an hour before it is ready, break the flour with a little cold water, and stir it carefully into the soup. YV hen ready, remove the bones and vegetables, serve the soup. The bones may be used again in the stockpot; the vegetables may be used for vegetable soup, or for thickening any soup. Richer Brown Soup.—Prepare and cook as in last recipe; but, instead of roast beef bones, use 1 lb. leg of beef; cut it into two or three pieces, and brown it with the vegetables. Pot-au-Feu.—Required: 2 lbs. ribs of beef; 1 small cabbage ; 1 ordinary sized carrot; 2 small white turnips ; 1 leek or onion ; 4 large potatoes; 1 bay leaf; ]/x teaspoonful celery seeds tied in a piece of muslin ; 4 pints hot water; y oz. salt; 6 pepper corns. Put the beef into a saucepan and cover with the hot water, add the salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan and put it on the side of the fire, that it may come to the boil very slowly. When boiling, skim -with an iron spoon, cover, and simmer very slowly for 1 y2 hours. Prepare the vegetables (see recipes page). Scald the cabbage, add it, the carrots, bay leaf and celery seed ; simmer for half an hour. Then add the leek, turnips, and potatoes, and allow the whole to simmer for another hour. If the meat cooks fast, it will fall to pieces and have no taste. Remove the celery seed and the pepper corns ; arrange the meat on a large dish; place all the vegetables round the meat; pour a large cupful of the broth into the dish, and serve hot. Remove the fat from the broth, break some dry rusks in a soup tureen, and pour the boiling broth over them. Keep the meat hot while the soup is served.57 SOUPS. The potatoes can be made more digestible by par- | boiling them, and adding them later. To keep them I from breaking, put them on the top of the meat and other vegetables, and, before dishing the meat, lut them off carefully with a spoon. This is a very economical dish when vegetables are cheap, and, as it must be cooked very slowly, it j requires little fuel. In France large earthenware saucepans are used for the pot-au-feu. Stock.—Required: i lb. leg of beef (lean) ; i small carrot; i small turnip; i very small onion; x sprig parsley ; i small bay leaf ; i clove • 3 or 4 pepper corns ; 3 pints cold water ; teaspoonful salt. Prepare the vegetables (see page 37) ; cut them into thick slices; cut the meat into small pieces ; put the vegetables and meat into a saucepan with the parsley, bay leaf, prepared onion, salt and cold water. Cover the saucepan and allow the water to come slowly to the boil; skim well; add the pepper and the clove, and simmer very gently for four hours. Lay a clean cloth in a colander ; strain the stock through it into a basin. Let it get cold, and remove all the fat. I Clear Soup.—Required: 1 pint of stock ; the white and shell of 1 egg. Remove all fat very carefully from the stock; put the stock into an enamelled pan with the white of egg and the shell; whisk all together till the stock looks frothy on the surface, then stir over a slow fire till it steams. Leave off stirring, and allow the soup to boil thoroughly for about five minutes ; draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for about fifteen minutes to allow the scum to rise and curdle. Lay a clean cloth in a colander; strain the soup through it into a basin. Cut neatly small pieces ofFISH. 58 vegetables; boil them till tender; add to the strained soup ; add also a very small piece of loaf sugar, as it makes the soup sparkle. Heat the soup, and serve. VIII.—FISH. To Fry Fish.—(See general directions for frying, page 43.)—Clean and dry the fish well, cut it into neat pieces, and prepare them for frying in one of the following ways :— 1 st. Break flour with enough of cold water to make it a thick batter; dip each piece of fish into this, and fry. 2nd. Brush the pieces over with milk ; toss them in flour in a sheet of kitchen paper; shake oft" the loose flour ; fry. 3rd. Dip the pieces into batter No. 1 (as above); toss them in stale bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper ; shake off the loose crumbs ; fry. 4th. Break an egg on a plate ; beat it up slightly; dip the pieces in this; toss them in stale bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper; shake off the loose crumbs; fry. Instead of bread crumbs prepared from the crumb of bread alone, crusts or any stale bread may be used, which are dried in the oven (not allowed to brown), pounded and kept in tightly corked bottles for use. Pounded rusks or water biscuits may be used instead of bread crumbs. Filleted Fried Fish.—A thick fish, such as haddock, should be filleted before frying. This is done by cutting the flesh off at the back, beginning at the head, using a sharp knife. The bones should be used for soup or sauce.59 FISH. Fried Herrings.—Required: 2 herrings 3 x oz- “Sfe’ and W toss possible has stuck to them. PHePa, the drip^ng in a'frying pan; fry the hernngs f0BoiledfiFishm-Ioil according to general directions given It pfge 4t. Serve with nrelted butter, parsley SaBoiiedeS|St Fish.-Soak the fish all night in WFi|h Cakes.—These may be made of any pieces of fish, cooked or uncooked ^ lb coId tst Way—Required: y-z ib. coin umi /2 mashed potatoes; oz. dripping, a °u^ x spoonful of milk; ^ teaspoonful salt; % teaspoontiu Remove the skin and the bones carefully from the fish • break it into small pieces; mix thoroug y the potatoes, melted dripping, salt, pepper, and m1 . Shape into neat small cakes upon a floured board with a knife dipped in flour. Brush over with a little milk, and toss in flour in a sheet of kitchen paper ; shake off the loose flour} fry. 2nd Way.—Prepare as in first way, using bread crumbs, and >4 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley instead of potatoes. ,, yd Way.—Prepare as m first way, using cold boiled rice instead of potatoes. ... , - In the above three ways, instead of brushm0 it milk and using flour, egg and bread crumb may be used.6o FISH. Fish Pudding.—Prepare the mixture according to first, second, or third way of making fish cakes! Instead ot shaping into cakes and preparing for fry. mg, place the mixture in a well-greased pie dish. I lace small pieces of dripping over the top, and brown in an oven or before the fire. Savoury Fish Pie—Required: y2 lb. cold boiled salt hsli; y2 lb. cold mashed potatoes ; 2 onions, pre- viously boiled; 1% oz. dripping; teaspoonful pepper. 1 break the fish into small pieces; mince the onion. Grease a small pie dish well; place a layer of fish at the bottom, then a layer of potatoes with onions sprinkled over; then fish, potatoes, and onions again. Place small pieces of dripping over the top, °and brown in an oven or before the fire. Baked Fish.—Required: a flat fish; 1 y2 oz. drip- ping or butter ; 1 dessert spoonful stale bread crumbs; 1 teaspoon till chopped parsley ; 1 small onion boiled and chopped ; y2 gill water; y2 teaspoonful vinegar; X teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Melt half of the dripping in a tin baking dish ; cut the fins off the fish; clean it; place it in the dish and pour the water and vinegar over it. Mix the parsley, onion, salt, pepper, and bread crumbs ; sprinkle them over the fish ; place the dripping in small pieces over the fish; bake in an oven for from ten to twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. 1 he dish is more delicate if lemon juice is used instead of vinegar. Haddock Stuffed and Baked.—Required: 1 haddock; 2y2 oz. bread crumbs; 1 dessert spoonful chopped parsley: 1 dessert spoonful chopped onion (previously boiled); 2 oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful milk; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper.61 FISH. Clean and wipe out the haddock; cut off the fins. Rub i Vi oz. bread crumbs and i oz. dripping well to^ethe/: add the chopped parsley, onion, salt, and pepper; stir in the milk to bind it. Stuff the mixture into the haddock, sew it up neatly and place it on a o-reased baking tin. Brush it over with melted drTPlp-S> sprinkle with the rest of the bread crumbs, and bake in an oven (basting occasionally) for about half an This dish may be improved by using butter instead of dripping, and an egg instead of milk Baked Herrings.—Required: 2 fresh herrings , say 1 gill water; say 1 gill vinegar; 6 pepper corns; 1 blade mace ; % teaspoonful salt. Cleanse and dry the herrings ; cut off the heads,, tails, and fins. Cut from the opening already made for cleaning down to the tail end. Lay them on their backs; remove the bones; sprinkle the salt over them ; roll them up, beginning at the tail end. Place them in a small pie dish with the pepper corns and mace; pour over them enough vinegar and water to cover'them; bake in the oven for three quarters of an hour. Stewed Herrings.—Prepare m the same way as in the last recipe, but instead of baking in a pie dish stew slowly in a pan for half an hour. Stewed Plaice. — Required: 1 small plaice; about 1 pint hot water ; 1 gill milk ; oz. butter ; 1 yolk of egg; 1 tablespoonful flour; 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley; teaspoonful vinegar; ^ tea" spoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Cleanse' and dry the plaice ; cut it into square pieces ; put into a stewpan with enough hot water just to cover them. When it has come to the boil simmer for about five minutes. Remove the pieces of fish andFISH. 62 put them on a plate; let the liquor in the pan cool a little. Break the flour with the cold milk ; add it to the water the fish has boiled in, with the butter, vinegar pepper, and salt ; stir till smooth ; boil well for ten minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and put the pieces of fish back into the pan for two or three minutes to warm them. Mix the yolk and parsley together in a basin; add a small quantity of the sauce to it j stir, and pour the whole into the pan. Serve. Any other white fish may be stewed in the same way. Broiled Mackerel.—Required: i mackerel; oz. dripping or butter; 4 sprigs of parsley; 1 pinch of salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Open the fish by cutting it down the back. Wash it well in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Rub a hot girdiron with a greased paper and lay the fish on it over a clear fire ; when brown on one side turn over on the other. Wash the parsley in cold water; pick it off the stalks; dry it with a cloth; chop finely; mix with the butter on a plate, using a knife; add to it the salt and pepper. Put the fish on a hot plate, and spread the butter on the fish. Any other fish may be cooked in the same way with or without the parsley and butter. Finnon Haddocks.—Required: 1 small finnon haddock; oz. butter; pint milk; y teaspoonful flour. Wipe the haddock with a damp cloth; cut it into four pieces ; roll the pieces in the flour; place them in a stew pan with the milk and the butter. Bring very slowly to the boil and simmer slowly for about five minutes. Serve on a very hot plate with the sauce round it.MEAT—ROASTING. 63 Crappit Heads.—Required: 3 haddock heads or a cod’s head ; 2 haddock roes ; 2 haddock livers ; % lb. oatmeal; 1 dessert spoonful toasted bread crumbs or raspings j 1 dessert spoonful chopped parsley, 2 onions (parboiled and chopped); % oz. dripping; about a teacupful cold water or milk; 1 teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. . Lay the oatmeal in a dish before the fire, or in the oven, and stir occasionally until it is quite dry and slightly browned. Cleanse the heads and wipe them dry; remove the eyes from the outside so as not to make a hole through ; make a stuffing of the oatmeal, roes, livers, parsley, onions, pepper, and salt. Mix these thoroughly into a stiff paste with the cold water or milk ; stuff into the heads and sew them up. Brush them over with a half ounce melted dripping; strew upon them bread crumbs or raspings. Bake in the oven or before the fire for one to one and a half hours. If preferred, the heads may be boiled for three quarters of an hour ; two ounces dripping may be used instead of the livers; and stale bread crumbs instead of oatmeal. IX.—ROASTING. Roast of Beef.—Cook according to general directions, page 38. Garnish with grated horse radish. Serve Yorkshire pudding with the roast. Rolled Ribs of Beef.—With a sharp-pointed knife remove the bones (using them for stock or gravy). Roll the beef, beginning at the thin end. Fasten it with string and skewers. Cook according to general directions at page 38. Remove the string and skewers before serving. Roast of Mutton.—Cook according to rules given at page 38. c64 MEAT—ROASTING. Roast Pork.—Score the skin with a knife; cook according to rules given at page 38. Serve with apple or onion sauce. Roast Heart.—Required: 1 ox heart; y lb. bread crumbs; 2 oz. dripping or suet; 2 tablespoonfuls milk; 2 onions (previously boiled); y teaspoonful powdered sage 1 V? teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Lay the heart to soak in cold water and salt to draw out the blood. Clean it well, taking care to remove all the clots of blood. Cut off all the loose flaps and the coarse fat; dry thoroughly. Put the bread crumbs and dripping into a basin, rub thoroughly together. Chop the onions finely, add them, the sage, pepper, salt, and milk. Mix well; stuff the heart with this mixture and sew it up. Roast according to general • directions, and serve very hot. Instead of sage and onions, minced parsley and mixed herbs may be used. A Sheep's Heart may be cooked in the same way. As it is small, it should be roasted either in the oven or in a pan. Savoury Roast.— Required: 1 lb. stewing steak thinly cut in one slice; 3 tablespoonfuls stale bread crumbs; 1 small onion (parboiled) ; y teaspoonful powdered sage ‘,2% oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful milk ; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Rub y oz. dripping finely into the bread crumbs; chop the onion small; add it to the bread crumbs with the sage, salt, and pepper. Stir in the milk to bind the mixture ; roll this into the meat; fasten the roll with string. Melt the 2 oz. dripping; roast the roll in the oven or in a pan, basting with the melted dripping. Roast Fowl.—Required: a young fowl, 2 oz. dripping. For drawing and trussing a fowl, see page 84. Melt the dripping in the dripping-pan; hangMEAT—BROILING, BOILING. 65 the fowl before the fire, and baste constantly while roasting. Cook for from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Make the gravy as for other roasted meats (see page *0) Stock made from the giblets may be used instead of boiling water. Serve with fried sausages or bacon round it; and with bread sauce served in a separate dish. X.—BROILING. Beefsteak.—Required: lb. steak, 1 small pinch salt. Have the steak newly cut from old-killed beef. It should be about 1 inch thick. Cook for about ten to fifteen minutes, according to general directions (page 40). When ready, sprinkle a pinch of salt over it. Serve immediately, and very hot. Mutton-steak may be cut from the leg. Chop.—Required: 1 chop, x small pinch salt. Have the chop newly cut from old killed mutton; it should be from three quarters of an inch to an inch thick. Cook for about ten to fifteen minutes, accord- ing to general directions (page 40). When ready, sprinkle a pinch of salt over it. Serve immediately, and very hot. XI.—BOILING. The liquid in which meat has been boiled should be used for soups and gravies. Leg (Scotch, gigot) of Mutton.—Cut off the shank and use it for soup or gravy. Boil according to general directions (page 41). Serve with pieces of boiled carrot and turnip placed round the leg, and cover with caper sauce. Corned Beef.—Cook according to general direc- tions. Serve with boiled greens, carrot, and turnip arranged round the meat, and some of the liquor it66 MEAT—BOILING. has been cooked in as gravy. Norfolk dumplings may be served with corned beef. A Ham.—If the ham is very salt and dry, soak in warm water for a day and a night; if not, twelve hours are sufficient. Put the ham into a large pan, cover it well with cold -water, bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and simmer gently till tender. A ham weighing io lbs. will take about four hours to cook. When ready, peel off the rind carefully, and dredge over with finely-sifted bread-crumbs, slightly browned previously in the oven or before the fire. If the ham is wanted cold, place it, after the rind has been removed, in a large basin; cover it with the hot water it has been boiled in, removing the fat floating on the top. When cold, remove the ham and dredge it with the browned bread-crumbs. Boiled Fowl.—Required: i fowl; *4 oz. butter; boiling water; i teaspoonful salt. Butter a piece of kitchen paper, and fold the fowl in it. Put the fowl in a saucepan, and cover it well with boiling water; add the salt, and boil slowly from an hour to an hour and a half, according to the age of the fowl. Remove the fowl from the saucepan without pricking it with a fork; take it out of the paper, and allow it to stand a few minutes till the steam has escaped; place it on a dish, and cover with egg sauce. Serve with fried sausages or bacon round it. Dressed Lamb’s Head.—Required: i lamb’s head with pluck; i heaped tablespoonful grated bread- crumbs ; i oz. flour; 3 oz. dripping; 2 tablespoonfuls kitchen salt; ^ teaspoonful table salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Have the head split in two; remove the brains; steep the head and pluck in cold water with the kitchen salt for two hours; wash and cleanse themMEAT—BOILING. 67 thoroughly, removing the tender gristle from the nostril. Tie the head together; put the head and pluck, including half of the liver, into a pan; cover them with boiling water; simmer till quite tender about two hours. Remove the head and pluck (pre- serving the liquor to make soup); cover the head with bread-crumbs. Place 1 oz, of dripping in small pieces over the head, and brown it before the fire or in the oven. Mince the heart, half of the lights, and half of the liver; stew this for twenty minutes*with 1 pint of the liquor the head has been boiled in, the pepper and salt, and the flour broken with a little cold water. Cut the uncooked half of liver into neat pieces, heat the 2 oz. of dripping in a frying-pan, and fry the pieces, taking care not to cook so long as to make them hard. Place the head in the centre of a dish ; arrange the stewed mince round it; on the mince place fried liver and brain cakes alternately. Brain Cakes.—Required: brains ; 2 heaped table- spoonfuls bread-crumbs ; 1 teaspoonful chopped pars- ley ; 1 oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful milk; 1 table- spoonful vinegar; 1 pint cold water; 1 pinch salt; 1 pinch pepper. Wash the brains in vinegar and cold water, then put them into the boiling liquor the head is cooking in; boil for ten minutes, drain, chop, and put them into a basin with the bread-crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and enough milk to make them into a moist paste; drop this paste in spoonfuls into a little of the hot dripping; fry till a golden colour. Brain cakes are much improved by having a beaten egg added to the mixture, or else by being egged and bread-crumbed before frying, like fish (page 58). If egged and bread-crumbed, they must be fried in plenty of fat.MEAT—STEWING. 68 XII.—STEWING. The flavour of stews may be inexpensively varied by the use of various herbs. See remarks, page 46. Although the gravy of stews may be made with water, they will be richer and more nourishing if, instead of water, they are made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled, liquor from the stockpot, stock made with a few cooked or uncooked bones, or gravy left over from previous stews. When it is not convenient to add the water or liquor warm, it may be added cold. Irish Stew—Required: y2 lb. flap (in England called brisket) of mutton, or any fat scraps ; 1 lb. of potatoes; 2 onions ; about 1 pint warm water; y tea- spoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Clean, pare, and parboil the potatoes ; cut them into slices ; skin and scald the onions, cut them into slices. Cut the meat into small pieces; put a layer of potatoes in the bottom of the pan, then some meat, onion, pepper, and salt; then more potatoes, meat, onion, &c., till all the meat, onions, and salt, and half of the potatoes are in. Add the water ; simmer slowly for half an hour; add the rest of the potatoes and simmer for another half hour. If the meat is tough it may be cooked a little longer. Irish stew may be made of cold fat meat or Australian meat, by cooking the potatoes and onions first, then letting the mixture cool, and only adding the meat to warm it thoroughly through. To vary this recipe the meat may be browned with a little dripping before stewing it. Haricot Mutton.—Required: lb. lean mutton ; Y turnip; y2 carrot; 1 onion ; y2 oz. dripping; y pint warm water; y teaspoonful browning; y tea- spoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper.MEAT—STEWING. 69 Cleanse and prepare the carrot and turnip ; cut them into neat pieces ; place in boiling water for five minutes. Skin and scald the onion ; cut it into slices. Cut the mutton into neat pieces, brown them with the dripping in a stew-pan ; brown very slightly the onion. Pour away the dripping ; add the water ; simmer with the lid on for half an hour; add the vegetables and simmer for another half hour. Five minutes before serving, add the colouring. Serve neatly with the meat and onions in the middle of the dish, and the carrot and turnip placed alternately round. Mutton with Haricot Beans.-—Required: y? lb. lean mutton; lb. haricot beans; oz. dripping; 1 pint-warm water; J4 teaspoonful browning ; y tea- spoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Cut the mutton into neat pieces; brown them with the dripping in a stew-pan ; pour away the dripping ; add y<2, pint of warm water and simmer with the lid on for half an hour. Prepare and cook the haricot beans as directed on page 101. Half an hour before they are ready, and when the mutton has been cooked for half an hour, place the beans with the mutton, adding the other pint ofwarm water, simmer for another half hour. Beef may be cooked in the same way. Mince Collops.—-Required: *4 lb. beef; 2 small onions; *4 oz. butter or dripping; 2 teaspoonfuls flour; J4 teacupful cold water; 1 teaspoonful ketchup ; y teaspoonful salt; y teaspoonful pepper. Mince finely the uncooked beef. Melt and warm the butter or dripping in a pan, put the meat in it, and beat it about with a fork, wooden spoon, or beater, till brown, but not hard. Break the flour with the water, add this and the chopped onions (previously boiled). Stew altogether for an hour, stirring frequently to pre- vent the meat going into lumps. A quarter of anMEAT-STEWING. 70 hour before serving, add the salt, pepper, and ketchup. Serve hot and garnish with small pieces of toast. Stewed Beef.—Required: lb. stewing beef; y carrot; turnip; x onion ; i oz. dripping; i pint warm water; oz. flour; i dessert spoonful of ketchup; y teaspoonful salt; i pinch pepper. Cleanse, prepare, and slice the carrot and turnip; skin, scald, and slice the onion. Brown the piece of beef in a stew-pan, then brown slightly the vegetables. Pour away the dripping; add the water and ketchup to the beef and vegetables. Break the flour with a little water, stir it smoothly in. Simmer with the lid on for an hour (longer if the meat is tough, or if a large piece is used), but do not allow it to boil; stir fre- quently to prevent the flour sticking to the pan. When nearly ready add the salt and pepper. Arrange neatly on a dish. Beef Olives.—Required:. y> lb- stewing steak cut thin ; 2 tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs; 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley; y oz- h°ur; oz. drip- ping ; Y?. pint warm water ; 1 tablespoonful milk; y teaspoonful browning; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Cut the meat into two neat strips, say about 3 inches wide. Rub the dripping and bread finely together; add the parsley, salt, and pepper; stir in the milk to bind the mixture. Roll half of this into each strip of meat; tie each roll with a piece of string or thread. Place in a small stew-pan, add the warm water and browning; break the flour with a little cold water, add it gradually to the stew ; stew slowly for about three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently to prevent the flour sticking to the pan. When cooked, remove the string, arrange the olives neatly on a dish with the gravy round, and serve.7i MEAT—STEWING. If stronger flavouring is desired, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs may be added to the stuffing and a grate of lemon rind. . Veal Olives may be made 111 the same way as beef olives, but should have a thin slice of fat bacon rolled inside. , Swiss Stew.—Required: ^ lb. scraps of un- cooked veal; 3 large potatoes; 1 onion; 1 oz. dnp- pin*; 1 teaspoonful flour; x tablespoonful ketchup ; x teaspoonful vinegar; }{ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch PeWash, pare, parboil, and cut the potatoes into quarters ; skin and scald the onion (see page 38). Cut the meat into neat pieces, not too small. Brown them with the dripping. Sprinkle the meat (still in the pan) with pepper and salt. Add the potatoes and the onion, and cover well with hot water. Add the ketchup and vinegar. Cook slowly for three-quarters of an hour, keeping the pan covered; do not stir it or the potatoes will break. Break the flour with cold water. Remove the pan from the fire, so that the contents cease boiling. Pour in the flour and water; shake the pan gently to mix all together ; bring to the boil and simmer gently for five minutes. In serving take care not to break the potatoes. Brazilian Stew.—Required: lb. coarse lean beef; carrot; >4 turnip ; 1 onion ; 3 tablespoon- fuls vinegar ; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch peppei.. Cleanse, prepare, and slice the carrot and turxiip ; skin, scald, and slice the onion. Cut the meat into neat pieces and dip them in the vinegar ; place them in an earthenware jar with the vegetables on the top of the meat; add the pepper and salt. Tie a piece of brown paper (greased) over the top of the jar; place the jar in a slow oven; bake for four hours.MEAT—STEWING. 72 If there is no oven, place the jar in a sauce-pan half full of cold water; bring to the boil, and steam for four hours. Stewed Kidneys.— Required: y2 an ox kidney or 2 sheep s kidneys; y, oz. flour; y2 oz. dripping; about i quart cold water; y teaspoonful salt; ]/ tea- spoonful pepper. Cut the kidney into small pieces, removing all the flit; place them in a small stew-pan with the water; stew slowly for about three hours, till tender. Melt the dripping in a very small pan, stir in the flour; add some of the liquor gradually, stir till quite smooth; add this with the pepper and salt to the stewed kid- neys a quarter of an hour before they are ready. Arrange neatly on a dish with a wall of mashed potatoes or boiled rice round. Stewed Rabbit and Onions.—Required: y, large or i small rabbit; 2 large or 4 small onions ; 1 oz. flour ; 1 quart hot water ; 1 tablespoonful ketchup ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Skin and scald the onions ; wipe the rabbit care- fully with a damp cloth ; divide it with a sharp knife into neat pieces; place them in a stew-pan with the onions, hot water, and ketchup. Stew gently from one and a half to two hours. Half an hour before it is ready, break the flour with a little cold water; draw the pan to the side to cool a little ; stir in the flour gradually ; crush the onions with a fork. Serve with neatly cut pieces of dry toast. Stewed Rabbit, another way.—Prepare as in last recipe, omitting the onions, and adding half a pound lean bacon cut into thin slices. Stewed Rabbit with Brown Sauce.—Re- quired: y2 large or 1 small rabbit; y lb. fat bacon cut into thin slices; 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 oz.MEAT—STEWING. 73 dripping ; about i pint hot water; % teaspoonful browning ; Va teaspoontul salt; i pinch PePPer- Wipe the rabbit carefully with a damp cloth ; divide it with a sharp knife into neat pieces. Toss them with half of the flour in a sheet of kitchen paper, brown them with the dripping in a stew-pan 3 sprinkle over them the remainder of the flour 3 toss the pieces in the pan till all the dry flour has disappeared. Draw the pan to one side of the fire3 add the hot water, browning, salt and pepper. Stew gently for one and a half to two hours. Place the bacon m a cold frying pan; put it on the fire 3 as soon as it is hot turn the bacon once or twice ; it takes about five minutes to cook and curls when it is ready. When ready place the rabbit in the centre of a dish, pour the sauce over and arrange the fried bacon round it. Spanish Stew.—Required: large or i small rabbit3 % lb. bacon ; i large or two small onions 3 x pinch salt; i pinch of pepper. Wipe the rabbit carefully with a damp cloth 3 divide it with a sharp knife into small neat pieces. Skin, scald, and slice the onions. Place a layer of onions in the bottom of an earthenware jar, with the pepper and salt; then a layer of rabbit 3 after this layers of onions and rabbit until all is in. Place the slices of bacon on the top; cover the jar tightly with a well- greased paper. Cook in a moderate oven or in a saucepan of boiling water for two hours. It may also be cooked on the hob, but would require nearly three hours. Curry.—Required: lb. beef, mutton, or pork 3 oz. curry 3 1 small apple 3 1 onion 3 oz. flour 3 1 oz. dripping or butter 3 yi pint hot water. Cut the meat into small squares 3 core, pare, and chop finely the apple 3 skin, scald, dry, and chop74 MEAT—STEWING. finely the onion; heat the dripping in the stew-pan. btir the meat, apple, and onion in the hot dripping till a pale golden colour ; sprinkle over them the curry and the flour, stirring till all is well mixed. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, stir in the water gradually : simmer gently for about an hour till the meat is quite tender. Stir it frequently to prevent the flour sticking to the pan. Serve with boiled rice. When there are no apples, a small piece of rhubarb may be used, or half a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice added with the water. Curry powder varies much m strength. Stewed Knuckle of Veal.—Required: i knuckle ^ r^Ce * 1 sma^ blade of mace ; 2 quarts cold water ; y teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Break the knuckle into pieces ; place them in a stew-pan with the water, mace, salt, and pepper ; bring slowly to the boil; simmer from two to three hours till tender. Wash the rice ; add it an hour before the knuckle is ready. Add boiling water if more is required. Alacaroni may be used instead of rice; it should be stewed for one and a half hours. Stewed Lights.—Required: lights ; 1 onion; 2 sprigs of parsley; 1 oz. dripping; 1 tablespoonful flour; i quart hot water ; 1 tablespoonful vinegar ; y. teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Skin and scald the onion; wash the lights in cold water and wipe them dry; cut them into small pieces. Melt the dripping in a large stew-pan; brown the pieces well, stirring often. Pour the water into the stewpan with the vinegar, pepper, and salt; add the onion and parsley. Bring to the boil; simmer gently for two hours. Break the flour with cold water ; allow the stew to cool a little, add the flour and boil for three minutes. Serve hot.MEAT—STEWING. 75 stewed Tripe.—Required: i lb. tripe; 3 onions > , 0® Cl n>ilk?; I pinch of salt; . pmch of Cvthe tripe to soak all night in cold water; next dav wash it in warm water with a piece of soda u dre size of a pea, bat do not let it soak in this, as the tda Will harden the tripe. Place the tnpe in plenty of cold water, bring to the boil ; if the waterdias m pleasant smell pour it away and place t 1 -■ in cold water, bring to the boil; repeat dns tillhe trinp and water are quite sweet. 1 hen simmer gem y for'five to six hours till the tripe is thoroughly tender. Skin and scald the onions, add them one hour before fhe tripe is ready. Break the flour with the milk ; add half a pint of the liquor the tripe has been boiled m bring to the boil and boil five minutes. Chop the onions; cut the tripe into neat pieces, add to it t e sauce with the pepper, and salt, and serve^ The liquor tripe is boiled in is nutritious, and may be used instead of water for some of the cheap soups A little mustard relish (see recipe) may be taken with stewed tripe. In England, tnpe is generally par- boiled when sent from the butcher s. , Dressed Tripe.—Required: lb. boiled tripe, i/ lb. fat bacon; >4 teaspoonful chopped parsley; oz. flour; % pint of tripe liquor; i dessert- spoonful ketchup; % teaspoonful salt; % teaspoon- Cut1 the tripe into neat oblong squares; cut the rind off the bacon; place a piece of bacon on eac piece of tripe; mix the pepper, salt, and parsley together; put a small portion on each piece. Rol up the pieces; tie them with string,; place them m a pan with some of the liquor the tnpewas boiled m Break the flour with cold water, add this and tMEAT—FRYING. 76 ketchup to the liquor; simmer for about half-an-hour. Remove the string; place the tripe neatly in a dish r pour the gravy round it; ornament each piece with a sprig ot parsley. C°w-hee1-—Required: i cow-heel; i tablespoonful flour; i tablespoonful chopped parsley • i teaspoonful salt. 1 y ’ • Rutr* t.he ,foot vve11 vvith plenty of coarse salt; scald it with boiling water, scrape off all the small hairs. Rut it into a large saucepan, with enough cold water to cover it. When the water boils pour it away and put m fresh water; when the water boils again, skim it well and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire • simmer for about five hours; remove the meat from the bone; cut it into neat pieces. Break the flour in a basin with a little cold water, remove the fat from the stock, and add about a quart of the stock to the flour and water. Put this mixture into the Saucepan " ith the pieces of meat and the salt. Simmer gently for about ten minutes; add the parsley, and serve. A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice may be added with the parsley. The remaining stock can be clarified and made into sweet jelly for invalids (see page 141), or used for soup. XIII.—FRYING. Steak Fried in the Pan.—Required: y2 lb. best steak ; 1 gill boiling water; Pf 02. dripping or butter; 1 pinch salt. Place an iron frying-pan (not tinned) on the fire; let it heat thoroughly; rub it over with the dripping or butter. Remove with a sharp knife any sinews from the steak; place the steak in the pan; turn it constantly from side to side, in the same way as77 MEAT—FRYING. orilling. When ready (in about seven to ten minutes), 1'lace the steak on a very hot dish; add the boiling water and the salt to the pan; stir well to mix the brown gravy left in the pan; pour round the steak. Serve hot, and immediately. Fried Sausages.—Required: yz lb. sausages; oz. dripping; i teaspoonful flour; i gill cold water; a pinch of salt; a pinch of peppei. Put the dripping into the frying-pan ; let it melt but not become hot. Prick the sausages in several places with a darning needle to prevent them bursting. Put them into the fat; fry very slowly (that is, not upon a hot part of the fire) for about fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. For gravy, mix the water gradually with the flour, pepper, and salt, stirring till smooth. Remove the sausages from the pan, add this mixture to the fat, and boil for a few minutes, stirring to keep it smooth. Place the sausages on a piece of dry toast, and pour the sauce round them. Bacon and Eggs.—Required: % lb. bacon; 1 egg. Place the bacon in thin slices in a cold frying-pan; put it on the fire, and, when the fat of the bacon is almost clear, turn it. It takes from five to ten minutes to cook. Remove the bacon to a hot plate. Break the egg gently into a teacup ; slide it gently out of the teacup into the frying-pan; it will be cooked in about three minutes. Keep the bacon gravy for making oatcakes, or for eating with bread instead of butter. The rind of the bacon should not be cut off until it is cooked, as without it the bacon curls up while cooking, and so is unequally cooked. Toasted Bacon.—Cut the bacon into very thin slices; hold each slice on a fork, putting the fork78 MEAT—FRYING. / through the fat part; hold it in front of a bright fire, over a hot dish, till the bacon begins to brown ard the fat to curl; cut off the rind; arrange neatly or a hot dish, and serve alone or with poached eggs. Bacon may also be toasted on the hooks in a Duxh oven. B ried Tripe.—Required: *4 lb. cooked tripe; 3 oz. flour ; about 1 )4 gills water; teaspoonful salt; x pinch of pepper. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together; add gradually enough water to make a thick batter. Cut the tripe into neat small pieces; dry them; dip each piece with a fork into the batter. Fry according to general directions, page 43. Dressed Cutlets.—Required: 2 small mutton chops with a long bone in each : about 2 oz. stale bread crumbs; 1 small egg; 2 oz. butter; 1 tea- spoonful flour; 1 pinch of salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Trim the cutlets neatly, leaving about an inch of the bone bare; sprinkle with the pepper and salt; cover slightly with the flour. Break the egg on a plate, beat slightly with a fork; cover each cutlet well with the egg, using a feather or brush; toss them in the bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper. Melt the butter in a thick frying-pan, but do not let it dis- colour. Place the cutlets in the pan, and fry very slowly till the butter round each cutlet begins to brown. Then turn carefully with a knife; cook the other side in the same manner; when ready, place them on kitchen paper to absorb the butter. Serve neatly with mashed potatoes, and garnish with parsley.COLD MEAT COOKERY. 79 XIV.—COLD MEAT COOKERY. Hash.—Required: J/?, lb. cold meat; i sprig of a flavouring herb ; i heaped teaspoonful flour ; /2 oz. dripping; pint pot liquor or water; i large tab e spoonful ketchup ; teaspoonful vinegar; i pinch of pepper; hi teaspoonful salt. . . Cut the meat into thin slices; melt the dripping m a small stew-pan; remove it from the fire ; add the flour and mix well; pour m gradually the pot liquor or cold water, stirring till smooth. Add the other ingredients except.the meat; stir over the fire till it has boiled for three minutes. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to allow the sauce to cool; remove the sprig of herb; place the pieces of meat in the sauce ; simmer very gently for about ten minutes , be careful not to let it boil, as the meat will harden. Serve hot, with sippets of toasted bread. Shepherd’s Pie.—Required: lb. cold meat; i lb. cold potatoes; 2 small onions; 1 sprig flavouring herb; 1 teaspoonful flour ; 1 oz. dripping; 1 table- spoonful milk; 1 teacupful cold water or pot liquor; 1/ teaspoonful pepper ; ^ teaspoonful salt. Cut the meat into thin slanting slices, with the gram not against it. Skm, scald, and slice the onions, and brown them slightly with half of the dripping in a pan; pour away the dripping ; break the flour with a little cold water; add it with the rest of the water, the sprig of herb, salt, and pepper to the onions. Simmer till the onion is tender, about one quarter of an hour, stirring to prevent the flour sticking to the^ pan. Remove the sprig ; let the sauce cool; pour it into a pie dish ; place the pieces of meat in it. Mash the potatoes; add the milk and the other half of theCOLD MEAT COOKERY. t0 thcm‘ Lay lhe Potatoes smoothly on the p of the meat; score them across with a knife. Put re idvG OVen t0 brOWn ' when browned, it is or hot n i hfe 13 ?° °Ven’ place the pie on the hob or hot plate for a few minutes to warm through, but o not allow it to boil; then brown it in front of the t0P the.„P1f may be glazed by brushing it over with a little milk before cooking. Macaroni and Meat Shape.—Required: U lb macaroni; V lb. scraps of cooked meat; i oz. stale bread crumbs; % teaspoonful powdered mixed herbs • about % gill water or milk; oz. dripping; U tea- spoonful salt; i pinch pepper. Place the macaroni in a pan of cold water; bring to the boil and bod for about twenty minutes, till soft but not pulpy. Drain the macaroni, and let it get cold. Chop the meat finely; mix it with the crumbs, herbs, salt, pepper, and water. Grease a small pad- ding bowl ; line the bottom of it with some macaroni • put in some of the meat; then gradually line the basin, placing more meat in the middle to prevent the lining falling in. If any macaroni is over, place it on t ie top of the meat. Cover the basin tightly with a well-greased paper; steam for half an hour to three- quarters ; turn out on a dish; serve hot. A quicker way. -Cut the boiled macaroni in small pieces, and mix with the meat. Rice may be used instead of macaroni. Pread and Meat Shape.—Required: V, lb. scraps of bread; ^ lb. scraps of cooked meat; ]/ teaspoonful powdered mixed herbs; i onion (pre- viously boiled); i oz. dripping; about i gill water or milk; teaspoonful salt; ^ teaspoonful pepper. Soak the bread for an hour in cold water; press all the water out and beat the bread smooth with a fork.81 COLD MEAT COOKERY. (•'hop the meat and onion very fine; mix all the in- gredients well together except J4 oz. of dripping. Grease well a basin; place the mixture m it; cove tightly with a well greased paper, leaving ro°™ the bread to swell, and steam for three quarters of an hour When the basin is lifted out of the water, let it stand for two minutes, then turn out; serve hot or C°Any cooked vegetables may be finely chopped and used instead of, or in addition to, the meat and °niMeat Sanders.—Required: 2 oz. cold meat; 1/ lb. cooked potatoes; 1 onion (previously boiled); about 1 oz. flour; oz. dripping; teaspoonful salt; teaspoonful pepper. . ■ . Mash the potatoes; melt the dripping; mix it wit the potatoes. Knead very gradually into the dripping and potatoes as much flour as they will hold; roll out once like pastry; cut into oblong square pieces. Chop the meat and onion finely; add to them the pepper and salt. Divide this into as many portions as there are pieces of potato paste; place each portion on a piece of paste; double the paste over first from one side, then from the other, making the second over- lap the first; with the back of a knife press it down along the top and at the two ends. Place on a greased tin; bake in a slow oven for three quarters ot an hour to an hour, If there is no oven they may be cooked slowly on a greased girdle. Rissoles.—Required: 2 oz. cooked meat; 1 oz. stale bread crumbs, or mashed potatoes, or boded rice- >4 teaspoonful minced parsley or powdered mixed herbs; >4 oz. flour; about 1 tablespoonfuls milk ; Vx teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Mince the meat finely. Mix all the ingredients82 COLD MEAT COOKERY. well together; form into small balls j brush over with milk; toss in the flour in a sheet of kitchen paper. Fry according to general directions, page 43. Instead of using milk and flour, the rissoles may be dipped into an egg beaten on a plate, and then tossed in bread crumbs in a sheet of kitchen paper. Meat Salad.—Required: lb. cold meat; 1 hard boiled egg; 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley; 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar; 3 tablespoonfuls oil; 1 pinch of dry mustard; y teaspoonful salt; y tea- spoonful pepper. Hard boil an egg (see page 124); remove the shell; chop the egg very fine. Put the egg, parsley, dry mustard, salt and pepper, into a small basin; mix well with a spoon; add the vinegar, mix again; add the oil, and stir till the sauce is quite smooth. Cut the meat into very thin slices; put them into a salad bowl; add the sauce; let the meat soak for about half an hour; mix well before serving. The addition of spring onions chopped finely, and one or two boned anchovies cut in small pieces will be found an im- provement. Bubble and Squeak.—Required: y> lb. cold salt beef; 1 lb. cold greens or cabbage; 1 oz. dripping; y teaspoonful pepper; 1 small pinch of salt. Chop the greens; cut the meat into thin slices. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, and when hot, fry the meat very slightly; place the slices on a hot plate and keep them warm. Add the pepper and salt to the greens, fry them till they are heated through but not browned; arrange them neatly in the centre of the dish, and put the slices of meat round the vegetables. Cold underdone fresh meat may be cooked in the same way.MISCELLANEOUS. XV.—MISCELLANEOUS. 83 Porridge.—Required: 2 oz. coarse oatmeal, about 2 gills cold water ; ^ teaspoonful salt. Put the meal and salt into a bowl, pour the wate gradually in among it, stirring all the time to make Snooth Put all into the pan; bring tothe b,ml , bod for at least half an hour. Be careful to stir it otten with a wooden spoon to prevent lumps. Porridge can also be made with hot water, but it is more apt to go into lumps, and it is not so digestible. The quantity of water required is not always the ^me, it depends upon the kind of meal used. Coarse o< t meaHs best for porridge. Porridge should be eaten with milk, or butter, or dripping, or treacle. . To render down fat.—Required: chopped fat, enough cold water to cover it. in Take beef or mutton fat (cooked or uncooked), bacon fat, fat skimmings from soups or stews. e- move any skin or lean meat (which may be put into the stock pot). Cut any or all of these fats into small pieces, place them in an iron pan and cover with cold water. Bring to the boil, removing carefully any scum that rises; then boil quickly with the lid off, till the liquid is a clear oil, which shows that the water has passed away in steam. This generally takes from one to two hours. Then draw the pan aside to let the tat go on melting at a lower heat, as it would brown if kept boiling quickly ; stir frequently. When the pieces of fat become shrivelled, crisp and brown, and the liquid spurts, it is ready. Remove the pan from the fire to let the melted fat cool a little, then strain it through a cloth into a basin or pie dish, keeping back the dried pieces. If the fat were poured in when quite hot, the basin would crack. When cold it should be quite84 MISCELLANEOUS. white. It keeps fresh in winter for many weeks. The dried pieces may be used in peas soup, potato soup, or haggis. Fat thus rendered down is generally called clarified fat or dripping, and may be used for pastry, cakes, and puddings,, for.frying, and for greasing dishes. To Clarify Dripping.—The same dripping or clarified fat may be used for a very long time for fry- ing. When it becomes brown and mixed with sedi- ment, place it in an iron pan, let it heat till a steam rises. Have ready a deep basin containing hot water; pour the hot dripping into this, very little at a time; to prevent it flying up; stir well. When quite cold the purified dripping will form a solid cake on the top, which must be taken off and wiped dry, and is then ready for use again. A quicker way is to put the drip- ping and cold water together in a pan and bring to the boil; pour into a basin and cool. When cold remove and wipe the cake of clarified dripping. To Draw a Fowl.—Pluck the feathers, then singe the fowl to remove the small hairy feathers. Lay the fowl on its breast, make an incision along the back of the neck from the body to the head. Cut off the head; separate the skin from the neck, and fold the skin back over the breast; then cut off the neck close to the body. Draw out the crop carefully and then the wind- pipe. Wipe the piece of skin to remove the blood. With a sharp knife enlarge the opening at the other end of the bird, about an inch upwards, from the middle. Draw out all the inside of the bird, taking care not to break the gall bladder which is attached to the liver. Wipe the opening with a damp cloth. Pre- serve the neck and giblets for soup or gravy. To Truss a Fowl for Roasting.—Cut off the toes at the first joint. Put the legs in a basin of boil- ing water for a few minutes; the skin can then be85 MISCELLANEOUS. easily peeled off. Place the fowl on its breast 3 fold the skin over the opening at the neck on to the back Turn in the wing with the end outside in the shape of a triangle ; the points will then keep the loose skin m its place. Push back the legs close to the sides of the bird, crossing each other at the knees. Tie the legs with the tail commonly called the “ parson s nose firmly together. Pass a skewer through the pinion and through the part of the leg placed under the wing, then through the body, the other leg and pinion. Remove the gall bladder from the liver, taking care not to break it; wash the liver m cold water, dry it. Remove the fat from the gizzard, cut it open, and take out the inside and the coarse skin; wash and diy the gizzard. Place the liver and gizzard each m a wing of the bird. If the fowl is lean, put a small piece of butter or dripping into the inside. . To Truss a Fowl for Boiling.—The fowl is trussed in the same way as for roasting, with the fol- lowing differences Cut off the legs at the first joint; put the fingers into the bird, and loosen all the skin round the legs till they can be pushed back within the skin. Push back the legs into the body of the bird, so that the whole is inside; put the liver and heart into the bird; fold the skin of the breast over the end of the legs which appear at the hole, and tie firmly with double string; then turn up the parson’s nose, pushing it in so as to fill up the opening. Sheep’s Haggis.—Required: the stomach-bag of a sheep; the pluck—i.e., the heart, liver, and lights; y2 lb. minced beef-suet; 2 teacupfuls toasted oatmeal; 4 onions (parboiled); 1 pint pot-liquor; 1 teaspoonful salt; Yi teaspoonful pepper. Wash the bag well in cold water, put it into hot water, and scrape it; then let it lie in cold water all86 miscellaneous. night with a little salt. Wash the pluck well; put it into a pan, letting the windpipe hang over the side; cover it with boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and let it boil for two hours; then take it out of the pan, and when it is cold cut away the windpipe. Grate a quarter of the liver (not using the rest for the haggis), and mince the heart and lights, also the suet and the parboiled onions. Add to all these the oatmeal, which has been dried and toasted to a golden colour before the fire or in the oven ; also the pepper and salt, and a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Mix these all well together. Take the bag and fill it little more than half full of the mince; if it be too full, it will burst in boiling. Sew up the hole with needle and thread, and put the haggis into a pan of boiling water. Prick the bag occasionally with a needle, to prevent it bursting. Boil this for three hours, then serve it on a hot plate. Pan Haggis.—Prepare the same mixture as for haggis; but instead of putting it into a bag, put it into a pan with a little more of the liquor, and let it stew for two hours. Liver Puddings.—Required: a quarter of a boiled liver; % lb. fat bacon ; 3^ lb. stale bread- crumbs ; about 3^ teacupful milk or water; 1 table- spoonful flour; 34 oz. dripping; 3^ teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Take a piece of the liver not used for the haggis; grate it down ; chop the bacon small; mix the bread- crumbs, flour, pepper, and salt together; then add the liver and the bacon. Moisten with a little milk or water, and mix well together. Grease some cups with melted dripping, then put in the mixture; twist over each cup a piece of greased paper (not printed paper); steam in a pan from one to one and a half hours, then87 miscellaneous. tom out and serve. If the water boils away, add boiling water. _ Required: A sheep’s liver Poor Man s; Go°se^f about r teaspoonful and heart; }i lb- fat ( iously boiled); i oz. Cdet oS%;in“ t coid water; % teaspoon- ful salt; * t^“^er^ndheart thoroughly; cut Wash and dry the llver h slice int0 the flour. them mto thin sll“s ’ ^P int0 thin slices and Chop the onions ^p^e a kyer of heart and liver in the remove the rind, rla y 'nkle over it a little bottom of a greased pie dish, spring ^ place of the chopped onion, sag , 1M materials (except layer of bacon ; repeat ^dd the cold water. “ Toad •• sausagefS { > e5; >4 Pint milk: % teaspoonful “put the flour and salt into .a basin, break the egg into a cup, beat it, dually> stirring well well together-, acid g The batter is light till smooth, and t prick the sausages with enough when air bells r • . dish, our the a fork, put them into the oven for about three- qu“f " The batter is lighter when mad^ ^ryUlTieces of uncooked meat may be used. . 1h _.1(J.ar Tam .—Proportions: x lb. fruit to i lb. su^ • Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the sL - and a^y decayed pieces. Lay the fruit and sugaall night in a basin to draw out some of the juice.88 miscellaneous. the fruit, juice, and sugar in a clean pan, which should not be more than three quarters full, as jam boils u , ISnng very slowly to the boil, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon; skim carefully; strawberries oM raspbemes should then be boiled for about twenty minutes, rhubarb, gooseberries, plums, and black currants about half an hour. When ready place in pots and cover tightly with paper immediate^ If the jam is to be used within three months, less sugar—say three quarters of a pound may be used, especially with strawberries and raspberries, which are sweet. \ 1 P'nt juice to 1 lb-loaf sugar. Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the stalks and any decayed pieces; place it in a dean pan ; let >t slowly warm (not boil) till the juice has come well the,frUlt gentlyin a Piec- of muslin 0 clean kitchen towel. Measure the juice; return it to the pan with the sugar, bring slowly to the boil; skim carefully; boil quickly for five to ten minutes. 1 o know if the jelly is ready put a spoonful in a saucer in a cool place; it it stiffens immediately it is ready if not, boil for a few minutes longer. Put into pots and cover tightly with paper immediately. U here strict economy is practised the fruit left in the muslin or cloth should be stewed with a little water and sugar, and eaten with rice or bread Snow Pancakes.—Required: freshly-fallen snow; 2 oz. flour; t teaspoonful sugar; 0z. dripping. I lace some newly-fallen snow in a basin near the fire ; when it has melted, mix as much of it with the Hour and sugar as will make the usual consistency of pancake batter. 1 his should form four pancakes. Look m the same way as ordinary pancakes. Pickle for Meat—Required: 3 lbs. common salt; 4 oz. brown sugar; 2 oz. saltpetre; 2 gallons water.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 89 Boil all together till everything is melted; strain. When the pickle is cold, put the fresh meat into it for a week, ten days, or more, according to the degree o SalBr?wningd— Required: >4 lb. brown sugar; about ^Heat^ifold'iron pan on the fire; rub it with a little dripping. Put the sugar into it, let it melt, stir with an iron spoon till it is a dark brown. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, add the water gradually, stirring all the time. Place the pan on the fire again, and stir till all is smooth. Let it cool, and pour it into a bottle; cork it well, and it will keep for some months. A Cheap Filter.—Get a tinsmith to put a rim at the lower end of the tube of a common tin funnel; tie a piece of muslin over this rim, so as to close the end of the tube. Fill this tube one-third with fine river gravel, one-third with sharp river sand, and one-third with powdered vegetable charcoal. Charcoal may be o-ot by burning a stick, or purchased for one penny at a druggist’s. Do not fill the tube too tightly; at the top of the tube put in a small clean sponge. Put the lube of the funnel into a bottle or jug. All water poured into the upper part of the funnel will gradually come through the muslin perfectly filtered. XVI.—CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. Goose Pudding.—Required: % lb. scraps of bread; 1 large or 2 small onions (previously boiled); 14 oz. flour; teaspoonful powdered sage; i{4 oz. dripping ; 2 tablespoonfuls milk ; teaspoonful salt; x pinch of pepper.90 CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. Soak the bread for an hour in cold water; pour off the water; bruise the bread with a fork till it is smooth. Chop the onion; mix all the ingredients well together except i oz. of dripping. Grease a baking tin; place the mixture in it, and put the rest of the dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in the oven for half an hour. If there is no oven, put the tin on a hot hob or girdle for twenty minutes, then brown before the fire. Turn out of the tin and cut into four or six pieces. Serve hot or cold. Savoury Rice.—Required: 2 oz. rice; 1 large or 2 small onions (previously boiled); Y oz. dripping; Yz pint pot liquor; % teaspoonful salt; ]/ teaspoon- ful pepper. Wash the rice; burst it; pour away the water. Chop the onion; add it, the pepper, salt, and liquor to the rice; simmer for a quarter of an hour till the rice is quite tender. Place on a dish ; put the drip- ping in small pieces on the top; brown in the oven or before the fire. Serve hot. Rice and Cheese.—Required: 2 oz. whole rice; 1 oz. grated cheese; 1 oz. dripping; about 1^ gill skim milk; 1 pinch of salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Wash the rice; burst it; strain off the water. Place the milk, pepper, and salt in the pan with the rice; simmer for a quarter of an hour till the rice is quite tender; the mixture should not be so moist as for a pudding. Spread a thin layer of the rice on a flat dish; sprinkle half of the cheese over it; add the remainder of the rice, then the rest of the cheese over that Place the dripping on the top in small pieces, and brown before the fire or in the oven; if browned in the oven, a little dripping should be placed at the bottom of the dish to prevent the rice and milk burning. Serve hot.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 91 Sweet Rice Croquettes.—Required: 1 teacup- ful of rice; % lb- bread crumbs ; 2 oz. sugar ; a small piece of lemon-rind; 1 pint milk; 1 egg; frying fat. Wash the rice well; put it into a small saucepan; cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. _ When the water has been absorbed, add the lemon-rind and pour in the milk by degrees; simmer till quite soft and almost dry, stirring the rice very often. Add the sugar; mix well; remove the lemon-rind; put the mixture on a plate to cool. Flour a corner of a board or table ; form the rice into small shapes, and roll each in flour. When all the shapes are ready, break the egg on a plate, beat it with a fork; brush each piece with the egg; cover with bread crumbs; fry. When sufficiently cooked, place them on paper to dry; then pile them on a dish, dredging them over with white sugar. Savoury Rice Croquettes.—These are made in the same way as sweet croquettes, only the rice is cooked in water or stock instead of milk, and grated cheese or onions boiled and chopped added in place of sugar. Savoury Potatoes. — Required: x lb. boiled potatoes; i}4 oz. grated cheese; 1 oz. dripping or butter; 1 gill cold milk; ^ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Mash the potatoes (cold potatoes will do) till no lumps remain. Add the salt, pepper, milk, and half of the cheese; mix well. Place the potatoes smoothly in a small greased pie dish, sprinkle the remaining cheese on the top, also the dripping in small pieces; bake in a brisk oven or before the fire for a few minutes till it is a golden colour. If it is possible to add on the top a little gravy from any roast meat, it will be found an improvement. Serve very hot.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 92 Fat Brose.—Required: 2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal; x y2 oz. dripping; about 2 gills boiling water; 1 pinch salt. Put the oatmeal, salt, and dripping in a basin; stir the boiling water in gradually; put the mixture in a pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes. A pinch of pepper may be added, and a chopped onion (previously boiled). Peas Brose.—Required: 2 tablespoonfuls peas- meal; 1 pinch of salt; about \ l/2 gills boiling water. Put the meal and salt in a basin; stir the boiling water in gradually; put the mixture in a pan on the fire, and boil for five minutes. Fat Peas Brose.—Required: 2 tablespoonfuls peasmeal; 1 ]/2 oz. dripping; about 1 gill boiling water; 1 pinch salt. Prepare and cook in the same way as Fat Brose. Boil for five minutes. Macaroni Cheese.—Required: y lb. macaroni; 2 oz. grated cheese; y pint of milk; 2 quarts hot water; iy oz. dripping or butter; 1 oz. flour; y2 teaspoonful salt. Break the macaroni into small pieces; put them into a saucepan of hot water; leave the pan un- covered, and boil fast for half an hour; strain off the water. Melt 1 oz. dripping in a small pan; remove from the fire, add the flour, mix well with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk very slowly, stirring con- stantly; add the salt and 1 oz. grated cheese; stir over a slow fire till the sauce boils, then pour it into a basin and mix well with the macaroni. Grease an oval tin dish (flat); put the macaroni and sauce into it; sprinkle the remaining cheese over it, and bake in rather a quick oven or in front of the fire till brown. Serve very hot.CHEAP DISHES WITHOUT MEAT. 93 Welsh Rabbit—Required: x round of stale .bread; about 2 oz. strong cheese; 1 oz. butter; 2 tablespoonfuls milk; y4 teaspoonful made mustard; x/ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Toast the bread on both sides; put it on a hot ■plate in front of the fire; spread it with the butter. Cut the cheese into small pieces ; melt them in a small pan with the milk, pepper, salt, and mustard; stir till smooth; spread quickly over the buttered toast. Unless served immediately, the rabbit becomes tough. Mealy Puddings.—Required: some long pud- ding skins; 1 lb. oatmeal; ^4 lb. minced beef suet; 3 small or 2 large onions (parboiled); % teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Get from the butcher some long skins for puddings; wash them well in warm water, then lay them to soak all night in cold water and salt. Rinse them well. Toast the oatmeal to a light golden colour before the fire or in the oven, stirring it to let it toast equally. Chop the suet very fine, also the cooked onions; mix all together, with the pepper and salt. Tie the end of the pudding skin with thread, then put in enough of the mixture to make it the length of a sausage; tie the skin again, but leave room for the pudding to swell. Leave about an inch of the skin, tie it again, then fill another, and so on. (The space is to allow each pudding to be cut off without letting out the mixture.) Have a pan with water in it nearly boiling, and a little salt. Prick the puddings all over with a darning needle, to prevent them bursting, and boil them for twenty minutes or half an hour. Serve hot. Currant Puddings.—Required: some long pud- ding skins; ^ lb. stale bread crumbs; 2 oz. flour; lb. minced beef suet; % lb. currants; 2 oz.94 VEGFTABLES. suSar j li teaspoonful ground ginger, nutmeg, or cinnamon. Prepare skins as in last recipe ; clean the currants ; chop the suet very fine. Mix all the ingredients well together; prepare the puddings and cook as in last recipe. Peas Pudding.—Required: lb. split peas ; oz. dripping or butter; i teaspoonful sugar; % tea- spoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Lay the peas to soak all night in cold water. Next day tie them loosely (to allow them to swell) in a pudding cloth; put into a pan of boiling water; boil for three or four hours till the peas are quite soft. Hold the cloth with the peas in it above the pan for a few minutes to drain out all the water; turn ihe peas into a basin; bruise them till quite smooth with a fork; stir in with them the dripping, sugar, pepper, and salt. When well mixed, return all to the cloth ; tie in tightly, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn out in a round shape on a dish. Peas pudding may either be served alone or with a fat dish such as pork. XVI I.—VEGETABLES. Potatoes for Boiling should be chosen as much of one size as possible, in order that they may be equally cooked. They are best cooked in their skins, as the finest part of the potato is next the skin, and some of this is removed by paring before cooking. The length of time required for cooking varies accord- ing to the size and age of potatoes, large and old potatoes taking the longest. Those grown on sandy soil are the finest, and keep their colour best when not used immediately. Good potatoes should presentVEGETABLES. 95 a mealy and dry appearance when well cooked, and should not have any hard piece in the middle. The skins must on no account be eaten, as they are most indigestible. The water in which potatoes are cooked should be thrown away, and potatoes should be parboiled before being added to any dish (Irish stew, etc.), because there is in potatoes a hurtful, almost poisonous, quality,1 which is removed by great heat; the water potatoes are boiled in is rendered unwholesome. Old Potatoes Boiled in their Jackets.— Required: potatoes; cold water; i teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Cleanse them (see page 37). Place them in an iron pan with enough cold water to cover them, and the salt. Bring to the boil; boil slowly for about 20 minutes ; try with a fork if they are soft. If so, pour away all the water; lift the lid partly off to allow the steam to escape; place the pan beside the fire till the potatoes are dry, shaking it occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the pan. Remove the skins ; serve hot. Old Potatoes Boiled without their Jackets. —Required: potatoes ; cold water ; 1 teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Wash and pare the potatoes (see page 37). Pro- ceed as in the previous recipe. Baked Potatoes.—Required: large old potatoes. Wash and wipe dry the potatoes. Place them in an oven or on the bars of the grate. Turn occa- sionally, that they may be equally cooked. They are ready when they feel soft, and generally take about an hour and a half to two hours. Serve very hot. 1 Potatoes belong to the botanical family Solanaceae, and have in a slight degree the same poison which exists strongly in night- shade and belladonna. DVEGETABLES. g6 Mashed Potatoes—Required: i lb. boiled po- tatoes; >4 oz. dripping or butter; gill milk; a small pinch of pepper; y2 teaspoonful salt. Crush the potatoes first with a fork and then with a large wooden spoon, to be sure that no lumps remain. Add the diipping, milk, salt, and pepper, and mash well in an iron pan over the fire till the dripping has melted and mixed with the potatoes; arrange neatly on a dish. Mashed potatoes are finest when made with freshly boiled potatoes, still hot. New Potatoes.—Required: potatoes; boiling water; i teaspoonful salt to a quart of water. Cleanse and prepare the potatoes (see page 37). Place them in enough boiling water to cover them, and the salt. Boil briskly for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, till soft. Then dry at the side of the fire as described for old potatoes. New Potatoes: Swiss Way. — Required: small new potatoes; a pan of frying fat. wash the potatoes, wipe them with a coarse cloth to remove the skins; dry well. Have the fat hot enough for frying (see page 43). Put the potatoes in one by one, and fry rather slowly till they are of a dark brown colour; this takes about 20 minutes. Put them on kitchen paper to drain ; sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve hot. When carefully cooked, the centre of the potatoes should be dry and mealy. Boiled Carrots. — Required: carrots; boiling water; y2 teaspoonful salt to 1 quart water. Prepare the carrots (see p. 37). If the carrots are very large cut them in half lengthways and across. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water and the salt; boil for about an hour. If old they areVEGETABLES. 97 nice mashed and mixed with mashed turnips, a little dripping or butter, and a pinch of salt. Turnips.—Prepare the turnips (see p. 38). Cook in the same way as carrots ; they take rather less time. Cabbage.—Required: 1 cabbage; boiling water; 1 teaspoonful salt to 1 quart of water. Prepare the cabbage (see p. 37). Place it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover it. Let it boil uncovered and very fast, till the stalk end of the cabbage is soft, for about half an hour to three quarters of an hour. Place it in a colander, and press with a plate to squeeze out the water. Place in a dish and cut into quarters. Colcannon.—Required: equal quantities of cold potatoes and cold cabbage ; 1 oz. dripping to 1 lb. of vegetables; teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper; 1 oz. dripping to grease the basin. Crush the potatoes with a fork ; chop the cabbage small; mix both together and place in a saucepan with the dripping, pepper, and salt. Stir over the fire till the dripping has melted and mix with the vegetables. Grease a basin or pie dish ; place the mixture in it; put it in a hot oven for about half an hour. Turn out on a dish ; serve hot. Cauliflower.—Required: 1 cauliflower; boiling water; 1 teaspoonful salt to 1 quart of water. Prepare the cauliflower (see page 37). Place it with the flower downwards in enough boiling water to cover it. Boil uncovered for twenty minutes to half an hour, till the stalk end is tender. Place the cauli- flower in a colander to drain off the water. Serve with melted butter. Peas.—Required: peas; boilingwater; 1 teaspoon- ful sugar to a quart of peas.VEGETABLES. 98 Shell the peas; place them in plenty of boiling water; boil uncovered till tender, about a quarter of an hour for young peas, from three quarters of an hour to one hour for old peas. Strain off the water ; serve the peas in a dish with the sugar sprinkled over them. Stewed Peas with Bacon.—Required: pint shelled peas ; i oz. fat bacon ; i small onion ; i table- spoonful flour; y, pint hot water; y teaspoonful salt; i pinch of pepper. Cut the bacon into very small square pieces, remov- ing the rind ; put them into a small stewpan and fry to a golden colour. Prepare the onion (see page 38) and cut it in slices; toss them in the hot fat for a few seconds, but do not let them brown. Add the peas and stir continually for a few seconds longer till all is well mixed; add the salt, pepper, and flour, stir again till you see no traces of dry flour. Then pour in the water gradually, stirring all the time, and cover the pan. Simmer for about an hour, stirring occasionally. Serve very hot. Stewed Onions.—Required: 1 Spanish onion ; 1 gill of milk; *4 oz. flour; x pinch salt; 1 pinch pepper. Skin the onion ; put it in a pan and cover it with boiling water; boil till tender (large onions take about one and a half to two hours, small onions about three- quarters of an hour) ; pour away the water. Break the flour with the milk ; add the pepper and salt; put this into the pan and stir till it boils ; let it boil with the onion in it for three minutes. If the sauce is too thick, add a little cold milk or water. Baked Onions.—Required: 1 Spanish onion; 1 oz. dripping ; 1 pinch pepper; 1 pinch salt. Place the onion (unskinned) in boiling water; boilVEGETABLES. 99 till tender j skin it; place it and the dripping m a small baking tin; put into the oven; baste the onion frequently till brown; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve. . . , . Spinach.—Required: i lb. spinach; % oz. drip- ping or butter; % teaspoonful flour; glU milk 1 Va teaspoonful salt. ... Wash and pick the spinach (see page 3b) ; put it, without any water, into a large uncovered iron pan over a brisk fire ; stir continually with a wooden spoon till the spinach is quite tender; then put it into a colander to allow the water which has come out of the spinach to drain away. Chop the spinach very fine; rub it with a wooden spoon till quite smooth; put it into a pan with the butter, flour, milk, and salt, and stir over the fire till all is mixed and the spinach boils. Serve as a vegetable, or with poached eggs and small sippets of fried bread. Nettles.—Gather (with a thick glove) young nettles in early spring. Pour boiling water over them ; let them lie for five minutes; pour away the water. Pick the leaves off the stalks ; place the leaves in plenty of boiling water (allowing one half teaspoonful of salt to one quart of water); boil uncovered and very quickly for about ten minutes. Drain away the water; chop up the nettles very fine; rub with a wooden spoon till smooth, and finish in the same way as spinach. Dandelions.—Required: 1 lb. dandelion plants; oz. dripping; J4 teaspoonful flour; gill cold water or pot liquor; boiling water; teaspoonful salt; teaspoonful pepper. Gather the plant before it flowers; take up with it the heart of the plant, as far as the top of the brown root. Throw away the dead leaves; wash the plants in several waters ; place them in a saucepan withVEGETABLES. loo plenty of boiling water. Boil uncovered for about half an hour ; drain away the water; chop up the dande- lions very fine; put them in a pan with the dripping flour, and seasoning; mix all well; add the pot liquor; simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour. When ready, the addition of a little gravy from roast meat is an improvement. Lettuces.—Prepare and cook in the same way as dandelions. Beetroot. Wash the beetroot in cold water rubbing it with a soft brush not to break the skin.’ Put it into a pan with plenty of boiling water; boil uncovered for from an hour to an hour and a half; press it with the finger, if soft it is ready; do not prick it with a fork or the juice will run out and bleach the root. Let it cool in the water, then remove the skin and the top, and cut into thin slices. Arrange these on a dish and put a little vinegar, pepper, and salt, over them; if wanted to keep, put the slices into a jar, and cover with boiling vinegar. Beetroot can also be served hot (the skin and top being removed) with melted butter. Rice for Curry—Wash the rice well; put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water; stir well with a spoon to separate the grains; boil for from fifteen to seventeen minutes till the rice is well swollen and soft, but the grains must not be broken. Pour into a sieve or colander to drain away the water; let it dry in front of the fire and serve round the curry. If the rice is cooked too much and the grains do not separate, hold the sieve under the cold water tap, and let the water run freely over the rice, then put the sieve or colander in the oven for a few minutes to warm the rice. Patna rice is the best for curry.VEGETABLES. IOI Boiled Rice with Meat—About twenty minutes before serving the meat, put a good cupful of well washed rice into the broth or stock, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Pour the stock through a colander to separate it from the rice and arrange the rice round the meat, adding a little of the stock as gravy. Plain Boiled Macaroni.—Required: % lb. macaroni; 2 quarts hot water; teaspoonful salt. Put the macaroni into hot (not boiling) water with the salt; leave the saucepan uncovered; allow the macaroni to boil for about twenty minutes till quite solt and swollen; pour through a colander to dram away the water. Serve hot, with or without parsley sauce. Haricot Beans.—Required: 1 pint beans; 2 quarts cold water; 1 teaspoonful salt. Wash the beans in cold water; put them into a basin and cover them well with cold water. Soak for one night, pour away the water; put the beans into a saucepan with plenty of cold water; boil for about two hours, till the beans are quite soft, but not broken. Pour them into a colander, so as to drain the watei well away. When ready, serve with parsley sauce poured over them. Mushrooms—Some mushrooms are edible; many are poisonous. The commonest edible mushrooms are generally found in meadows and on open ground, and are in greatest abundance in August and Septem- ber. The top is smooth, never warty; the underside is pink in young mushrooms and brown in the older ones. The stalk is firm and fleshy. Mushrooms are good for flavouring soups and stews, or may be used separately as a vegetable. Grilled Mushrooms.—Required: 6 small or 3 large mushrooms; oz. butter; 1 pinch pepper; 1 pinch salt.102 VEGETABLES. Wipe the mushrooms with a dry cloth to remove earth and sand ; remove the stalks ; if the mushrooms are old skin them ; heat and grease the gridiron • place it over a slow fire; melt the butter in a cup • dip each mushroom into it; grill for about five minutes! urning them when half done; sprinkle with the PifPP1!T1and Sa!t and serve hot The skin and stalks should be used to flavour soups and stews. Mushrooms may be cooked in the oven or before the fire in a greased tin. The butter in the tin should be poured over the mushrooms before serving. Stewed Mushrooms.—Required: 6 small or 2 large mushrooms; ^ oz. butter; # teaspoonful flour; about r tablespoonful water; % teaspoonful vinegar ; 1 pinch pepper ; 1 pinch salt. Melt the butter in a very small pan ; stir in the hour; add the vinegar and water gradually; add the pepper and salt. Clean the mushrooms as in the last recipe ; remove the stalks and the skin, if old; put the mushrooms in the pan and stew gently for about ten minutes. Plain Salad.— Required: 1 lettuce; mustard (the vegetable); cress; salad sauce (see page 130). The vegetables must be very fresh. Cleanse the vegetables, break off each leaf of the lettuce carefully; cut or break them across in small pieces; wash these pieces again in cold water; drain them and toss them in a dry towel to dry. Arrange the lettuce, mustard, and cress according to taste. Just before serving add the salad sauce and sprinkle the chopped hard boiled white of egg over the salad. A good addition to salad is radishes (washed and brushed) either whole or in slices.103 PASTRY. XVIII.—PASTRY. Economical Short Crust.—Required: % lb. flour; 2 oz. dripping; x pinch baking powder ; 1 tea- spoonful sugar; about teacupful cold water. Rub the flour and dripping lightly together with the finger tips till they are of the consistency of fine bread-crumbs; add the sugar and baking-powder, and stir in gradually as much cold water as will make it into a dough stiff enough to turn out of the basin in one lump, leaving the basin clean. Roll the paste out once, and it is then ready for use. This will cover a very small tart, or make about six tartlets. If used with meat, take a pinch of salt instead of the sugar. Richer Short Crust.—Required: 4 oz. flour; 2oz. butter; egg (yolk and white mixed); 1 tea- spoonful of sugar; 1 tablespoonful cold water. Prepare as in last recipe, omitting the baking- powder, and add the half egg with the sugar. Fruit Tart.-—Reverse the empty pie-dish upon the paste, and with a knife dipped in flour cut the paste close off by the outer rim of the dish. Fill the pie-dish with fruit and sugar, allowing about 3 oz. sugar to the pound of fruit; wet the edge of the dish with water. Cut part of the remaining pastry into a strip, place this upon the wetted edge of the dish, then wet the top of this strip, and place upon it the piece of paste first cut out. Press this upper piece against the strip with your thumbs, then with a sharp knife dipped in flour, cut the paste sharply round at the outer rim of the dish. To ornament, place the thumb upon the edge of the pastry, and draw the back of a knife quickly up against the double layer of104 PASTRY. pastry at short intervals. Brush the pastry over with sugar and water or with milk. Place in a hot part of the oven for five minutes, to allow the starch-cells of the flour to burst, and the dripping melted by the heat to be absorbed by them, and then remove to a cooler part until the pastry and fruit are cooked. Dredge the tart over with a little white sugar before serving. To make Tartlets, cut out the paste into round shapes with a tumbler or tin paste-cutter dipped in flour; slightly grease small patty tins, fit a round of paste into each tin, brush the edge of the paste with a little sugar and'water, and half fill with jam or stewed fruit. Bake as directed above. Cornish Pasties.-—-Required: short crust (the quantity given at page 103); 2 oz. scraps of meat ; 1 potato (parboiled); 1 onion; % teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Roll out the paste very thin ; cut it into rounds with a tin cutter or small saucepan lid (the quantity mentioned should make four). Chop the meat; skin and chop the parboiled potato; skin, parboil, and chop the onion ; mix the meat, potato, onion, pepper, and salt together. Divide it into as many portions as there are rounds of paste; place each in the centre of a round. Wet the edge with a little cold water, double the round, and press the edges together. Raise the pastie, letting it rest on the middle of the round; with the fingers bend the edges into deep curves. Brush over the pasties with a little milk, place in a greased tin, and bake in an oven for about half an hour. Economical Flaky Crust.—Required: % lb. flour; 2 oz. dripping; about a gill of cold water; a pinch of baking-powder; a pinch of salt.105 PASTRY. Put the flour, baking-powder, and salt into a basin ; stir in gradually as much cold water as will make it into a dough stiff enough to turn out of the basin in one lump, leaving the basin clean. Roll out the paste, and divide the dripping into three equal pieces. If the dripping is very hard, soften it near the fire, but do not let it melt. Spread one piece of the dripping over the paste, fold up the paste, and roll it out. Turn the side of the paste towards you, then spread the second piece of dripping in the same manner, fold up the paste, and roll out again. Do the same with the remaining piece of dripping, roll out the paste, and fold it again several times till the patches of dripping are no more seen. The crust is now ready for covering a pie. Richer Flaky Crust.—Required: % lb. flour; 2 oz. butter ; 1 white of egg; 1 small teaspoonful of baking powder; 1 pinch of salt. Divide the butter into three pieces, and put them on a plate. Put the flour into a basin with the baking powder, and mix well together. Put the white on a flat plate, add a small pinch of salt to it, and whip to a stiff froth. Put the froth into the basin, and mix with the flour; then add a very small quantity of cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Knead lightly on the floured board, and roll out very thin. Take one of the three pieces of butter, and put it in small lumps all over the paste; fold the paste m three, turn the rough edges towards you, roll out again; add the second piece of butter in the same way on the paste, fold in three, and roll out again; then add the third piece of butter in the same way. Fold the paste in three, and roll it out two or three times till you see no more patches of butter; then use directly.io6 PASTRY. Russian Fish Piz.—Required: % lb. cold cooked fish; flaky crust (double the proportions given at page 104); 1 oz. boiled rice ; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; oz. dripping or butter; ^ teaspoonful salt; 1 pinch pepper. Roll out the crust to a neat square; break the fish into small pieces, removing the bones. Mix it with the boiled rice, parsley, dripping, salt and pepper. Place this mixture in the centre of the square of paste; wet the edges of the paste; fold it in from the corners like an envelope, bringing one comer over the other. Brush the whole over with a little milk, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. The pie may be made richer by mixing a raw egg with the other ingredients before placing them on the paste. Beefsteak Pie.—Required: Flaky or short crust; lb. lean meat; 1 oz. flour; 1*4 gills water; 1 table- spoonful ketchup; teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful pepper. Cut the meat into very thin pieces; mix the flour, pepper and salt on a plate; dip each piece into this mixture. Roll them up lightly; place them in a small pie dish; add the water and the ketchup; wet the edge of the dish. Place the pastry over the pie; cut it off close to the pie dish; remove it, and from the pieces cut oiT, cut some strips. Lay these along the wet edge of the dish; wet the top of them with cold water; lay on them the large piece of pastry; press down the edge. Make a hole in the centre to allow a hurtful steam, caused by the meat cooking inside, to escape; roll out the scraps of paste left over, and cut out a fringe. Roll this up and place in the hole; brush over the paste with a little milk; place in a hot part of the oven for five minutes, then107 PASTRY. bake in a cooler part for three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Sheep’s Head Pie.—Required: Short crust; 1 sheep’s head; Y lb. bacon; an egg; 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley; Yz pint pot liquor; Y tea' spoonful salt; Y teaspoonful pepper. Soak the head all night in salt and water; wash thoroughly in warm water, removing the soft bones from the nostrils. Boil with sufficient water to cover it, till it is quite tender (about three hours). Place the egg in hot water, boil for ten minutes; plunge the egg in cold water. Remove the shell and cut up into small pieces. Cut the meat, gristle, and bacon into small pieces, and put them, with the egg, parsley, pepper, salt, and half a pint of the liquor the head has been boiled in, into a pie dish; cover with paste as in last recipe, and bake as directed. Generally eaten cold. Use the rest of the liquor for soup. Sausage Rolls.—Required: Short paste (the quantities given at page 103); 2 oz. scraps of meat; Y teaspoonful salt; Y teaspoonful pepper. Cut the paste into four oblong squares; chop the meat, mix it with the salt and pepper. Divide it into four; place one portion on each square. Wet the edges of the squares; fold one side of the paste over the meat, then the other side ; press down and mark with the back of a knife at the two ends and along the top. Place on a greased baking tin and bake in the oven for about half an hour. Oatmeal Pie Crust.—Required: lb. oatmeal; about 1 gill hot water; x pinch salt. Stir the ingredients well together; roll out on a board to the thickness required. Fill the pie dish with cooked meat and vegetables, adding a littlePASTRY. io8 flavouring and a little water or stock. Cover with the brake fnrroh ‘I ^ with milki Place “ the oven and cooked b°Ut a qUarter of an hour tin the crust is Suet Paste—Required: % lb. flour: 2 oz. suet • about *4 gill of water; % teaspoonful salt. Mince the suet very finely, removing all fibres and pieces of skin; mix it thoroughly in a basin with the flour and salt, till it is like fine bread crumbs. Add enough water to make it a stiff paste, work together and turn out of the basin neatly in one lump on to a floured board Flour the rolling pin, roll out the paste once to the thickness required. Suet paste may be made lighter by using 2 oz. stale bread crumbs and 2 oz. flour instead of 4 oz flour. ^ Boiled Beefsteak Pudding.—Required: suet paste; 1 lb. stewing beef cut thin; V2 oz. flour- aboutx n 0f water; *4 oz. dripping; y2 teaspoonful’ salt, y2 teaspoonlul pepper. Grease a pudding bowl (one with a rim preferred) ■ cut off a piece of paste large enough to cover the’ bowl. Roll out the other piece; line the bowl with it, cutting ofl the edges with a sharp knife dipped in Hour. Cut the meat into neat stripes; mix the flour, sa t and pepper on a plate, dip each piece of meat into this; roll up and place in the lined bowl. Pour in as much cold water as you can without running over the bowl. Wet the edges of the lining paste with water; roll out the piece of paste left for the lid to a round shape; place on the basin; press its edges against the edges of the lining; trim the edges with a knife. Dip the pudding cloth in boiling water; flour the centre of it; tie over the top of the basin. Tie the two opposite corners of the cloth together over109 PASTRY. the bowl so as to make a handle. Have ready a large nan of sufficient boiling water to cover the pudding, with teaspoonful of salt m it. Place the Padding in this; boil for 2 to 2 % hours. When ready lift the bowl on to a plate and let it stand for 2 minutes. Remove the cloth carefully, as it is apt to stick to the top of the pudding. Reverse the bowl on a dish, and lift the basin slowly off it. Serve hot. This pudding may be varied by adding two onions skinned, scalded and chopped; or sliced parboiled P°Apple Pudding.—Required: suet paste; about 2 lbs. apples; 2 oz. sugar. Pare, quarter, and core the apples ; cut them into slices. Prepare and cook this pudding in the same way as in the preceding recipe, adding the apples and sugar instead of meat, pepper, and salt. "Apple Dumplings.—Required: suet paste ; 3 apples; 1 oz. sugar. Pare and core the apples, but do not divide them ; fill up the hole with sugar. Divide the paste into three pieces ; work each piece into a smooth ball; place an apple on the top of one piece; work the paste up round it until the apple is covered. Do the same with the other apples and piece ol paste. Place the dumplings in boiling water; boil for half to three- quarters of an hour, till apple and paste are thoroughly cooked. Roly Poly.—Required: suet paste ; 2 tablespoon- fuls of jam, treacle, or marmalade. Prepare the suet paste as above ; roll it out to an oblong square. Wet the edges with water ; spread the jam over the paste, keeping it back from the edges ; roll it up, pressing the edges well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, flour it well;milk puddings. roll the pudding in it; tie the ends to the pudding— not quite close, as it swells a little. Have ready a large pan of boiling water with half a teaspoonful salt in it. Place the pudding in this and boil for two hours. It is a good plan to put a saucer or plate in sticking0m °f thC Pan t0 prevent the Pudding from Baked Roly Poly.—Prepare as in the last recipe, but instead of tying it in a cloth and boiling it, place it on a greased baking tin and bake for about three quarters of an hour. Meat Roly Poly .^-Required: suet paste : Pf lb. thinly cut uncooked corned beef; i chopped parboiled onion ; % teaspoonful pepper. Prepare as in last recipe, using the beef sprinkled over with the onion and pepper instead of jam. Bacon may be used instead of corned beef and onion, but as it is fat, only i y2 oz. suet should be used for the paste. Goblet .Pie.—Required: short crust; 2 oz. scraps of meat, cooked or uncooked ; 2 oz. chopped apples; 2 oz. raisins; 2 oz. currants; 2 oz. sugar; 2 oz.' suet; about 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Clean and stone the raisins; clean the currants; pare, core, and chop the apples (they must weigh two ounce after chopping). Chop the suet very finely, removing all pieces of skin or fibre ; chop the meat finely. Mix all the ingredients well together; place in a pie dish; cover, as directed for fruit tart, with short crust. XIX.—MILK PUDDINGS. An egg is included in the ingredients of most of the following puddings; but baked rice, macaroni, tapioca,MILK PUDDINGS. m sago, barley, and semolina puddings may all be made without eggs. In this case the pudding must be longer simmered so as to thicken the mixture; and in macaroni the milk should be thickened with oz. flour. It is best to add the yolk and the white of the egg separately. Beat the yolk and put it into the pudding; then whisk the white and add it. If, however, there is not time to separate them they may be beaten together and added to the pudding. A mixture should always be allowed to cool before an egg is added to it, as great heat makes the egg curdle. If cooked too long the egg loses part of its nutritive quality. When a pudding is cooked with the heat coming from below, as is generally the case in an oven, the dish should be greased to prevent the pudding sticking to it; when the heat comes from above, as when a pudding is cooked before the fire, it is unnecessary to grease the dish. A steamed pudding is ready, if, when you press your finger on it, no mark is left. Rice Pudding without Eggs.—Required: i oz. whole rice; i oz. shred suet, dripping, or butter; y't. oz. sugar; pint skim milk; i pinch seasoning (nutmeg, ground ginger, cinnamon, or allspice). Wash the rice. Place half of the shred suet in a pie dish ; place the rice, sugar, and seasoning over it; pour in the milk, put the rest of the shred suet on the top. Place in a slow oven and bake for about an hour.. If the milk dries up too much add a little more. Rice Pudding.—Required: r oz. whole rice; *4 oz. sugar; i egg; pint milk; i pinch of nutmeg or cinnamon.MILK PUDDINGS. 112 Wash the rice ; put it into a pan with plenty of cold water; bring to the boil; pour off the water. Add the milk and sugar to the rice ; simmer till the rice is quite soft, about one quarter of an hour. Break the egg into a small pie dish ; beat it well with a fork. Let the rice and milk cool a little and then pour into the pie dish, mixing well with the egg. Bake in an oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Steamed Rice Pudding.—Prepare in the same way as in the last recipe, as far as “ simmer the rice till quite soft.” Then draw the pan to one side of the fire; when a little cooled, stir in the yolk of the egg; whisk the white on a dry plate with a knife; when stiff, stir it lightly into the pudding. Grease a mould or basin, pour the mixture into it; cover tightly with a greased paper ; steam for about half an hour. Raised Rice Pudding.—Required: % lb. whole rice ; about i oz. bread crumbs ; 2 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar ; 2 oz. butter; 1 pint milk ; 1 inch stick cinnamon; a pinch of salt. Wash the rice well, put it on the fire with enough cold water to cover it, and bring it slowly to the boil. When the water is absorbed, add the milk and season- ing. Simmer till soft, then remove the cinnamon. Put the rice into a basin, add the sugar, stir in the butter, and let it cool. Break the eggs, separate the yolks from the whites. Add the yolks, unwhisked, to the rice, one at a time, stirring constantly. Grease well a small cake tin, put in the crumbs, cover with a plate, and shake well till the crumbs adhere to the tin. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the pudding just before putting it into the tin. Bake in a hot oven from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. It should be brown when turned out, and may be eaten hotMILK PUDDINGS. 113 or cold, and served with stewed fruit or with any sweet sauce. Rice Shape.—Required: 1 oz. whole or ground rice; yz pint milk; 1 oz. of sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. If whole rice is used, wash it. Put the rice into a small pan with the milk, seasoning, and sugar; simmer until the rice is thoroughly soft and the mixture thickens. Let a china or tin mould stand filled with water for a few minutes; pour away the water; do not dry the mould; pour in the mixture, and let it stand till quite cold. Turn out on a dish, and serve with stewed fruit, treacle, or jam. Macaroni Pudding.—Required: y lb. macaroni; 2 oz. soft sugar; 1 egg; oz. butter or dripping; 1 pint milk ; 1 pinch seasoning ; 2 quarts hot water. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of hot water; boil it uncovered for twenty minutes; pour away the water; add the milk and sugar. Simmer very slowly for about a quarter of an hour, till the macaroni is quite tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool the mixture a little. Break the egg into a cup, beat it slightly with a fork ; stir in with the macaroni, milk, and seasoning. Pour into a greased pie dish, and bake till it is a golden colour in the oven or before the fire. Tapioca Pudding.—Required: x oz. tapioca; 1 egg; pint cold milk; 1 gill cold water; y oz. butter or dripping; y oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. Put the tapioca into a basin, and cover it with the water. Let the tapioca soak till it has absorbed all the water (about an hour). Add the milk, sugar, and seasoning, bring to the boil and simmer till quite soft and clear (about half an hour); draw to the side of the fire to let it cool a little; break the egg, and beat slightlyMILK PUDDINGS. 114 with a fork ; mix well with the tapioca. Pour into a greased dish, and bake in a moderate oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Serve either hot or cold. Sago Pudding.—Prepare and cook in the same way as tapioca pudding, using sago instead of tapioca. Barley Pudding.—Required: 1 oz. barley; 1 egg> V* pint m>lk ; }/2 oz. soft sugar. Mash the barley; let it soak all night in cold water. Put it into a pan with the milk and sugar; simmer till quite soft, from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Break the egg and beat it slightly with a fork in a pie dish ; add the barley and milk, stir- ring well together; brown in an oven or before the fire. Semolina Pudding.—Required: y oz. of semo- lina; 1 egg; y2 pint cold milk; yi oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning. Put the semolina into a small saucepan and cover it with the milk. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer till quite soft (about ten minutes), stirring all the time. Remove the pan from the fire, and allow the mixture to cool a little. Put the semolina into a basin, add the sugar and flavouring, and mix well. Break the egg, separate the yolk from the white; add the yolk to the semolina, stir well. Beat up the white to a stiff froth, mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingre- dients; pour into a pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven or before the fire till it is a golden colour. Ground Barley Pudding.—Prepare and cook in the same way as semolina pudding, using ground barley instead of semolina. Steamed Semolina Pudding.—Required: 1 oz. semolina; 1 egg; 1 oz. butter or dripping; pint milk ; 1 oz. soft sugar; 1 pinch seasoning.115 milk puddings. ]3rin° the semolina and milk slowly to the boil m a small saucepan, and simmer till soft. Pour the mix- ture into a basin, add the sugar, and allow it to cool a little. Beat the yolk of egg slightly with a fork, and mix it with the semolina (when cool); add the flavouring; grease thoroughly a basm or trn mould (a plain one is best); pour m the mixture. _ Grease a double piece of kitchen paper, and twist it over the top of the basin or mould, and steam 1slowly for half an hour adding boiling water if the water boils away If a basin is used, steam for three quarters 0t Bread Pudding.—Required: 2 oz. stale bread- crumbs; 1 egg; y2 pint milk; 1 pmch of nutmeg or cinnamon; *4 oz. sugar. • Put the bread-crumbs, milk, sugar, and seasonu & into a stewpan ; simmer for about five minutes ; draw the pan to the side of the fire, to allow the mixture to cool a little. Break the egg into a small pie-dish, beat it well with a fork ; pour the milk and bread in, mixing well with the egg. Bake m an oven or before the fire till it is a golden brown colour Bread and Butter Pudding.—Required-. % lb. stale bread; 1 oz. butter; 1 egg; 1 oz. currants; 1 oz. sugar; pint milk. Cut the bread into thin slices; butter it; cleanse the currants. Put a layer of the buttered bread into a pie-dish ; sprinkle over it a few currants ; repeat tins till the bread and currants are all in. Break the egg into a basin, add the sugar, and beat with a fork till well mixed and light; add the milk to the egg gmc u ally, stirring all the time. Pour this mixture slowly over the bread, so as to allow it to soak into the bread. Bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour.MILK PUDDINGS. I his pudding may be made with dripping instead of butter, and the egg may be omitted. Potato Pudding.—Required: i lb. potatoes • 2. eggs; 2 oz. sugar; i lemon; 2 oz. butter or drin- pmg; t pinch of salt. 1 Rub the potatoes (previously boiled), while hot through a sieve; melt the butter or dripping, add it to them, and let the mixture cool. Break the esss separate the yolks from the whites. Whisk the yolks' grate the lemon rind, add these, the juice and the sugar; mix these well with the potatoes. Just before baking, add the salt to the whites, whisk to a stiff froth, and add lightly to the mixture. Put all into a greased tin, bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour, and then turn out on a dish. Serve very hot. Shape of Corn-Flour.—Required: r oz. corn- flour ; oz. sugar; J4 pint milk. Break the corn-flour in a basin with a little of the cold milk. Place the rest of the milk with the sugar in a pan on the fire; bring it nearly but not quite to the boil ; pour the corn-flour and cold milk into it, and let it boil for five minutes after it thickens, stirring all the time. Have a basin or mould standing filled with cold water; pour away the water, but do not dry the mould. Pour the corn-flour into this shape, let it become, cold, and turn it out on a dish. It can be eaten either with stewed fruit, jam, treacle, or cold milk. Custard Pudding.—Required: 3 eggs; J4 pint milk; 2 oz. sugar; J4 oz. butter; 1 pinch grated nutmeg. Stir the eggs and sugar well together; add the milk and nutmeg ; stir well. Butter a small pie-dish; pour in the custard. Bake in a slow oven for about twenty117 MILK PUDDINGS. minutes. Do not move the dish till the custard is set, as it might curdle. A piece of paste (see page 103) may be put round the edge, or a piece of dry toast in the bottom of the dish. Yorkshire Pudding.—Required: Y lb. flour; 1 e?g; Yz pint of milk; Y teaspoonful salt. Place the flour and salt in a basin; break the egg into a teacup, beat it well with a fork, pour it into the flour. Mix thoroughly together with a wooden spoon ; add the milk very gradually, beating the batter all the time. The batter is sufficiently beaten when bells of air rise. Grease a baking-tin, pour the batter in, and bake in rather a quick oven for half an hour. Cut into square pieces, and serve with roast beef. The batter is improved by being allowed to stand in the basin for two hours before it is baked. Stir well before pouring it into the tin. To make the pudding richer add a second egg. Hasty Pudding.—Prepare as in the last recipe, but use 1 dessert-spoonful sugar instead of salt. Pour the batter into greased cups, and steam for half an hour. Black Cap Pudding.—Prepare in the same way as Hasty Pudding, adding 1 oz. of well-cleansed currants. XX.—BOILED & MISCELLANEOUS PUDDINGS. Suet Dumpling..—Required: Y lb. flour; 2 oz. suet; about 1 gill of cold water; x oz. sugar; % tea- spoonful baking powder ; Y teaspoonful salt. Chop the suet finely, removing all pieces of skin and fibre; mix thorouglxly in a basin with all the otherIi8 BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. dry ingredients. Add enough of water to moisten it, and stir well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring, dredge with flour, tie the pudding in it, leaving room for it to swell, put into boiling water and boil for two hours, or longer if convenient. Should the dumpling be wanted richer, milk may be used instead of water, and an egg added. If an egg is added only half the quantity of milk or water is required. If it is to be eaten with meat omit the sugar. This dumpling is lighter, and only requires one and a half hours to boil, when made with 2 oz. stale bread crumb and 2 oz. flour, instead of % lb. flour. Lemon Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of the grated rind and the juice of half a lemon. Currant Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of 2 oz. currants carefully picked and cleaned, and % teaspoonful mixed spice or grated nutmeg. Carrot Dumpling.—The same as suet dumpling with the addition of one small or half a large carrot, cleaned, scraped, and grated; and teaspoonful ground ginger; also 2 oz. stale bread crumbs. Apple Dumpling.—The same as suet dump- ling, with the addition of 2 medium-sized apples, pared, cored, and minced; also 2 oz. stale bread crumbs. Curry Dumpling—The same as suet dumpling (omitting the sugar), with the addition of ^ teaspoonful curry, which should be mixed with the dry ingredients before the water is added. Suet dumpling may thus be varied to any extent, according to the materials at the disposal of the cook.BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 119 Flour and Dripping Dumplings.—Required: 5 oz. flour; 1 teacupful clarified fat; 1 teacupful cold water; 1 oz. of sugar; teaspoonful salt. Put the flour in a basin with the salt and sugar. Put the fat and water into a saucepan, and when boiling pour quickly on the flour, stirring with an iron spoon. Flour your hands and make the paste up quickly into small balls while hot; let them cool; then put them into a pan of boiling water one at a time, so as not to cool the water, and boil for about twenty minutes. When they float on the surface they are ready; serve hot. They may be eaten with treacle, stewed fruit, sugar, or milk. These dumplings may be cooked in sweet or buttermilk, to which 1 inch of cinnamon stick may be added. Norfolk Dumplings.—Required: lb. flour; teaspoonful baking powder; about 1 gill cold water; ^ teaspoonful salt. Place the flour, baking powder and salt in a basin ; stir in the water gradually till a stiff paste is fonned. Roll into small balls about the size of an egg, boil with meat, or place in boiling water with % teaspoonful salt in it, taking care that the dump- lings do not stick to the pan. Boil for about twenty minutes. Serve with boiled salt beef; or as a pudding, with treacle. Dough Dumplings.—Required: apiece of dough left over from bread baking. Roll the dough into balls about the size of an egg; place them in boiling water, and boil for about half an hour. Serve with treacle or melted butter. Plain Plum Pudding.—Required: 2 oz. flour ; 2 oz. stale bread crumbs; % lb. suet; % lb. currants; lb. sultana raisins; 2 oz. minced apple; 1 oz* candied orange or lemon peel; 2 oz. sugar; 1 egg; %120 BOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. oz. dripping; teaspoonful seasoning; about i gill milk. Mince the suet very finely, removing all pieces of skin and fibre; mix it with the flour and bread crumbs. Clean the currants ; pick the stalks off the currants and raisins; remove the candied sugar from the peel; chop the peel finely. Pare, divide, core, and mince an apple ; mix the dry ingredients well together. Break the egg into a cup, beat it with a fork; add the milk to it, and pour this gradually among the dry ingredients, stirring well. If too dry, add a little more milk. Grease a pudding basin well; place the mixture in it, allowing a little room for the bread and flour to swell. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water; wring it out and flour it; tie it lightly over the top of the basin. Have a large pan ready with enough boiling water in it to cover the pudding; place the pudding in it and boil for three hours. When ready, let it stand for two minutes before turn- ing it out on a dish. Serve hot with sweet sauce or melted butter. Lemon Pudding. — Required: 2 oz. ground rice; 2 oz. stale bread crumbs; 2 oz. finely minced suet; ^ oz. dripping or butter; 1 lemon; oz. candied lemon peel; about 1 gill milk; 1 oz. sugar. Mix the rice, crumbs, suet and sugar together in a basin; remove the sugar from the peel; chop the peel finely and put it in the basin. Grate the outer rind of the lemon into the basin; roll the lemon to make it soft; cut it in two and squeeze the juice into the basin, keeping back the pips. Stir these in- gredients well together ; add gradually enough milk to make a stiff mixture. Place it in a well greased tin, shape, or pudding bowl; cover tightly with a greasedBOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 121 paper; steam for two hours; turn out, serve with sweet sauce. This pudding may be made richer by adding an egg to it, in which case less milk is required. Marmalade Pudding.—Prepare and cook as in the last recipe, using 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade instead of a lemon. Wakefield Pudding.—Required; y2 lb. stale bread cut very thin; 1 lb. fruit (apples, rhubarb, green goose- berries, &c.); y lb. sugar. Stew the fruit with the sugar till it is cooked. Put a layer of bread in a pie dish, then a layer of fruit and juice, then bread, &c., till all is in. Serve hot or cold. Custard sauce may be served with this pudding. Fig Pudding.—Required: y lb. figs; 3 oz. flour; 3 oz. bread crumbs; 2 oz. minced apples; 2 oz. minced suet; 2 oz. sugar; about a teacupful of milk. The apples must weigh 2 oz. after they are pared and cored. Cut off the stalks of the figs, mince the figs very finely and mix thoroughly with all the other dry ingredients. Then add enough milk to bind the mixture, put it into a well greased mould or pudding bowl, leaving room for it to swell; and steam for two and a half to three hours. Treacle Pudding.—Required: y lb. flour; 2 oz. bread crumbs; 2 oz. finely minced suet; about 1 gill milk or water ; 2 oz. treacle or syrup ; 1 pinch of salt. Chop the suet finely, removing all pieces of skin and fibrp; mix thoroughly in a basin with the flour, bread (crumbs and salt. Heat the treacle slightly (to make it mix more easily), then add it to the flour, and wThen well mixed add gradually about one gill of milk or water till it is a stiff dough. Dip a cloth into boiling 11 water, wring it, flour it well, pour the pudding into theBOILED, ETC. PUDDINGS. 122 cloth without a basin, tie it loosely, put it into boiling water, and boil at least two hours. Put a plate in the bottom of the saucepan (before warming the water) to prevent the pudding sticking. Rice and Apple Pudding.—Required: x large apple; 2 oz. rice; oz. dripping or shred suet; 1 pint of water or milk; 1 inch stick cinnamon; 1 oz. sugar. Wash the rice; pare, core and chop the apple. Put the rice on with enough cold water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil. When the water is all absorbed add the pint of cold water, apples, and cinna- mon. Stew for half an hour with the cover on, stirring occasionally. Then add the sugar, take out the cinna- mon, put the mixture into a greased pie dish, and put the shred suet or small pieces of dripping on the top. Place in the oven or before the lire till brown. This pudding is improved by having a small piece of lemon rind cooked with it and removed with the cinnamon. Bird’s Nest Pudding.—Required: % lb. tapioca; 4 apples ; about 1 pints water; 1 oz. sugar. Pare and core four apples; fill the holes with sugar. Soak the tapioca or sago in water for an hour ; then bring to the boil and boil for five minutes. Grease a pudding dish, put the apples in, and the tapioca round them; bake in the oven till ready, about half to three quarters of an hour. Lemon Sponge.—Required: 1 lemon; 1 white of egg; % oz. gelatine; 1 oz. sugar; 1 gill cold water. Put the juice of the lemon with half the rind (not the white) of one in the cold water with the soaked gelatine and sugar. Stir and melt all together oyer the fire, but do not allow it to boil. While this is preparing break the egg and separate the yolk from the^white.boiled, etc. puddings. 123 Beat up the white to a stiff froth ; draw the gelatine, &c., aside from the fire and let it cool a little; then add gradually to the stiff egg froth. Beat all together until quite stiff; this generally takes from twenty to thirty minutes. Dip a tin or china mould m cold water then fill with the mixture, which should .stand at least half an hour before being used. If preferred, this may be made with oranges. The gelatine melts more quickly if it is previously soaked in the cold •water for an hour. Swiss Roll.—Required: 3 oz. flour; 1 egg; 1 egg’s weight in castor sugar; x pinch of baking ^ Lay a well-greased paper in a shallow baking tin; beat the egg and sugar together in a bowl with a fork or spoon till they form a rich cream ; mix the baking powder with the flour, add these to the egg and sugar, and stir quickly till smooth. Pour the mixture evenly into the papered tin, and bake in a quick oven till it is a light brown. Sprinkle sugar on a board; turn out the roll on it, spread with jam, and roll up quickly before it gets cold. If preferred, this roll can. be made thin, and cut into flat sandwiches with jam between. Poor Knights.—Required: 1 lb. slices of stale bread; 2 oz. flour; 2 oz. soft sugar; 1 inch stick cinnamon ; T/z pint skim milk; fat for frying. Cut some stale bread into slices, about ^ inch thick. Put the milk, sugar, and cinnamon into a plate or bowl; dip each piece of bread several times into this mixture, till saturated but not broken; then roll lightly on the flour. Put the fat into a frying pan; when hot, put the pieces of bread into it, fry till a light brown on both sides. Take them out with a fork and put them on kitchen paper, or a clean cloth, to124 EGGS. absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot plate, and pow- der each piece with sugar. I o make l’oor Knights richer, break an egg into a plate, beat it with a fork to mix the yolk and white, and then add it to the milk before the pieces are dipped into it. When egg is used, omit the flour. Railway Pudding.—Required: i small teacup- ful fine flour; i small teacupful refined white sugar; 3 eggs ; i tablespoonful milk; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put the flour and sugar into a basin, add the bak- mg powder, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Peat up the eggs with a fork to mix the yolks and whites together. Add the milk to them, and pour the whole into a basin. Stir quickly till the mixture forms a smooth paste, then pour into a buttered shallow tin, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. W hen a nice brown, turn it out on a sieve, to prevent it getting heavy. When cold, cut in square pieces, then cut each into two slices, spread jam between or stewed fruit. Dish in neat heaps. XXI.—EGGS. To Boil an Egg.—Place an egg gently with a spoon in water almost, but not quite, boiling. Let it simmer steadily for three and a half minutes. A small egg is sufficiently cooked in three minutes; a new laid egg takes four minutes. To Hard Boil an Egg.—Place the egg gently with a spoon in water almost, but not quite, boiling. Let it simmer for ten minutes; dip it into cold water, to prevent the white discolouring. When required, remove the shell.T25 EGGS. Poached Eggs.—Required: x egg; boiling water; i teaspoonful of vinegar to x pint of hot water; i round of toast. Add the vinegar to the water; break the egg into a cup; slip it gently from the cup into the pan of sim- mering water. Simmer for about three minutes; lift out of the pan with a pierced fish slice; place the egg on a half round of toast; serve hot. Baked Eggs.—Required: i egg; oz. butter. Place the butter in a very small baking tin; melt it; break the egg into a cup; slip it from the cup into the tin; place the tin in the oven for three minutes, when the egg will be cooked. Rummeled Eggs.—Required: i egg; i slice of buttered toast; i dessert spoonful milk; l/z oz. butter; x pinch of salt. Melt the butter in a small frying pan; break the egg into it; add the milk and salt; stir constantly one way till the egg becomes thick like butter, but not hard; spread it over the buttered toast; serve very hot. Omelet.—Required: 2 eggs; oz. butter; 1 tea- spoonful soft sugar; 1 small pinch of salt. Break the eggs ; separate the yolks from the Avhites, add the sugar to the yolks; stir in a basin till they are thick and creamy (about ten minutes). Place the whites with the salt on a dry plate; with a dry sharp knife whisk them in a cool place till they become a stiff froth; mix this gradually in among the yolks, tak- ing care not to beat down the froth. In the meantime let the butter melt, but not discolour, in an omelet pan ; pour the mixture into the pan; cook it on the fire till it sets (about two minutes); then place it in the oven 10 allow it to rise and brown. If there is no oven, hold it before the fire. Turn it out, double it over and serve immediately.EGGS. 126 The omelet will be larger and lighter if a third white can be allowed to the two yolks. A savoury omelet may be made by adding half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs or chopped parsley to the yolks instead ot sugar. An omelet pari should not be washed • it should be scraped and dry rubbed. Pancakes.—Required: 2 oz. flour ; 1 egg ; 2 oz. clarified fat; 1 gill milk; 2 oz. sugar ; 1 small pinch of salt. 1 Put the flour and salt in a basin ; add the egg and stir well with a wooden spoon ; then pour in the milk gradually, stirring all the time, being careful to have no lumps in the batter. Put two and a half table- spoonfuls of the batter in a cup ; melt a fourth of the fat in a small frying pan. When hot pour in the batter from the cup, holding the pan so that the batter should cover the whole of it. Let the pancake set, then with a knife see that it does not stick anywhere. Shake it a little and either toss it over or turn with a long thin knife. When a golden brown on both sides put it on a plate, dredge with sugar, fold the pancake in three, or roll it up and dredge again with sugar. Serve very hot. The above quantities will make about four pancakes. When time permits prepare the batter some hours before, as it is improved by standing. If preferred, pancakes may be made a little lighter by adding only the yolk at first to the flour, &c.; then add the milk as directed Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, just before the pancakes are to be cooked, and add lightly. A few drops of lemon juice squeezed over each pancake is a great improvement. Snow Eggs.—Required: 1 egg; 1% gills of milk ; inch stick cinnamon ; 1 heaped teaspoonful sugar.SAUCES. 127 Break the egg; separate the yolk from the white. Put the milk, cinnamon, and sugar into a small pan (enamelled preferred). While this is coming to the boil beat the white with a knife on a dry plate to a very stiff froth. Dip a tablespoon in cold water, scoop out the froth in spoonfuls and drop into the boiling milk ; boil slowly for three minutes, tuna the froth over, and cook the other side for three minutes. Put this snow on a cloth to drain. Stir the yolk in a cup with a spoon until it is creamy; add gradually the milk slightly cooled ; remove the cinnamon. Put the milk and egg back into the saucepan, and stir always one way over a slow fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour this custard into a shallow dish and when cold place the snow upon it. XXII.—SAUCES. Melted Butter.—Required: 1 oz. flour; 1 oz. butter ; pint cold water; 1 pinch of salt. Put the butter into a small saucepan, melt it, then draw the pan to the side of the fire ; add the flour gradually and mix both with the back of a wooden spoon ; add very gradually the water and salt, stirring continually to prevent lumps. Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, then boil it for three minutes. If the melted butter is wanted for fish, some of the liquor the fish has been boiled in may be used instead of water. A richer sauce may be made by using 1 )A, oz. or 2 oz. of butter to 1 of flour. Cheap Melted Butter.—Required: 1 oz. flour; ^ oz. dripping; % oz. butter; ^ pint cold water; 1 pinch of salt. ESAUCES. 128 Put the dripping into a small saucepan, melt it, then draw the pan to the side of the fire ; add the flour and mix well with the back of a wooden spoon. Add very gradually the water and salt, stirring con- tinually till there are no lumps. Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, boil it for three minutes, take it off the fire and stir in the butter. White Sauce.—Prepare in the same way as melted butter, but use milk instead of water. Parsley Sauce.—Required: melted butter; i teaspoonful chopped parsley. Wash the parsley, wring it dry in a cloth, pick it carefully off the stalks, chop small and stir into the melted butter. Caper Sauce.— Required: melted butter; i dessert spoonful capers. Add the capers to the melted butter. Onion Sauce.—Required: melted butter; r large or 2 small onions; i pinch pepper. Skin and boil the onions until soft; mince small; stir in with the pepper to the melted butter. This sauce should be quite thick. It is more delicate if the onions are rubbed smooth with the back of a spoon before adding them to the melted butter. Egg Sauce.—Required: melted butter; i hard boiled egg. Put the egg into boiling water, boil ten minutes, then dip it into cold water to preserve the colour. Take off the shell ; mince the yolk and white and add it to the melted butter. Sweet White Sauce.—Prepare in the same way as melted butter, but use milk instead of water, and a teaspoonful of sugar instead of salt. It may be flavoured with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon juice.SAUCES. 129 Plain White Sauce.—Required: 1 oz. flour; pint milk; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the flour gradually with the milk. Stir over the fire till it boils, add the sugar; boil for three minutes. Arrowroot Sauce.—Required: oz. arrow- root ; Yi pint water; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the arrowroot with the water; stir over the fire till it boils; add the sugar; boil three minutes. A few drops of lemon juice or other flavouring may be added. Cornflour may be used instead of arrow- root. If the sauce is wanted red, add three drops of cochineal. Treacle Sauce. —Required: Cheap melted butter; 1 tablespoonful syrup. Stir in the syrup (but do not boil) before the melted butter is removed from the fire. Custard Sauce.—Requii-ed: 1 yolk egg; pint of milk; x teaspoonful cornflour; 1 teaspoonful sugar. Break the cornflour with a little of the cold milk; stir the yolk in smoothly. Bring the milk almost to the boil, but do not quite boil; pour it into the com flour and egg, stirring constantly. The mixture may be returned to the pan for a few minutes to let it thicken, but on no account allow it to boil, as the yolk will curdle. Serve hot or cold. Bread Sauce.—Required: 1 large teacupful of bread crumbs ; oz. of butter; y pint boiling milk; 1 pinch of salt. Boil the milk in a small saucepan, and when quite boiling put in the bread crumbs with the butter and salt; stir over a slow fire for about ten minutes. An onion (boiled and chopped) is a good addition. Mint Sauce.—Required: 1 dessertspoonful finelyBREAD, ETC. 130 chopped fresh mint; i dessert spoonful brown sugar ; gill vinegar; y gill hot water. Mix the sugar and hot water, let it cool; add the vinegar and chopped mint. Serve cold. Mustard Relish.—Required: i dessert spoonful sugar; y teaspoonful made mustard; 2 dessert spoonfuls vinegar. Mix the sugar and mustard smoothly together, then add the vinegar gradually, stirring till smooth. Salad Sauce.—Required: 1 hard boiled egg; 2 tablespoonfuls oil; 1 tablespoonful vinegar; y2 tea- spoonful made mustard ; % teaspoonful sugar; y tea- spoonful salt; 1 pinch of pepper. Take the white from the yolk of the hard-boiled egg; rub the yolk, sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard smoothly together; stir in the oil gradually; then stir in the vinegar gradually. Chop the white into small pieces; sprinkle it over the salad. Cream or milk may be used instead of oil. XXIII.—BREAD, ETC. Bread.—Required: 3^ lbs. flour; 1 oz. German yeast; 1 heaped teaspoonful salt; 1 quart tepid water. Put the yeast into a basin and add gradually the water, stirring with a wooden spoon. Put 2y lbs. flour with the salt into a very large basin; make a hole in the middle of the flour; add the yeast and water slowly, mixing with your hands in gradually enlarging circles, till all the flour is taken in. Beat the dough thoroughly for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place for two hours. Put the remaining flour on a board, turn out the dough upon it and knead, taking it from the sidesBREAD, ETC. I3i towards the middle, till it no longer sticks to your hands, and feels quite elastic. This quantity makes two loaves. If cottage loaves are wanted, form a large ball and place it on a floured tin; then place a smaller ball on the top of the large one, and make a small hole or mark on the top. If moulds are used, flour them and half fill them with the dough. Cover the loaves and let them rise for about twenty minutes in a warm place, then bake in a hot oven for about two hours. Turn the loaves out of the moulds, or remove them from the tin, and slant them against a dish or board to allow the steam to escape. The above are general directions ; certain flours (generally the best) absorb more water than others, and the pupil must learn by experience the proper consistency of the dough. If brewer’s yeast is used, the dough may stand all night in a warm place. Milk Rolls.— Required: % lb. flour; 1 oz. salt butter; about gill of milk; teaspoonful baking powder. Rub the flour and butter lightly together with the tips of the fingers. Add the baking powder; gradually stir in enough milk to make it a stiff dough. Take rough lumps and place them on a floured flat tin. Bake in a quick oven till ready, about twenty minutes; place on a sieve to cool. This makes about four rolls. If preferred, the dough may be rolled into small oval shapes, and brushed with milk, or with a slightly beaten egg, to give them a glazed appearance. These rolls must be made as quickly as possible in order to be light. Sally Luns.—Required: y lbs. flour; 2 oz. salt butter; 1 egg; gill milk; y oz. German yeast (or 1 tablespoonful brewer’s yeast); ^4 oz. dripping or butter (for greasing); teaspoonful sugar.13- BREAD, ETC. Warm the milk and butter in a pan together till the butter is melted, but not hot. Rub the yeast smooth with teaspoonful sugar; add the milk and butter. Stir this mixture gradually into the flour; add the egg slightly beaten; mix till quite smooth. Divide into two and put into well greased tins; set these in a warm but not too hot place for an hour to rise. Then put into a quick oven till baked, about fifteen minutes. Oat Cakes.—Required: ^ lb. fine oatmeal; 2 teaspoonfuls bacon gravy; >4 teacupful cold water; V* teaspoonful carbonate of soda; 1 pinch of salt. d ake two good handfuls of meal, put them into a bowl with the water, soda, salt, and bacon gravy (bacon gravy is the fat left in the pan or dish after frying bacon). Stir this mixture quickly with the hand; turn out cleanly on the board, on which you should have two or three handfuls of meal. Knead more meal into it till it is of a proper consistency, but do not make it too stiff, as 11 will not work well. Work it between the palms of the hands to make it flat; lay ii on the board and work it out, flattening it with the knuckles of the right hand, and keeping it to a round shape with the open palm of the left hand. Roll it lightly with the roller, cut it in four, rub each piece with meal on both sides. Put these pieces oh the girdle, and when cooked on one side, put them on the toaster before the fire. If wanted very white, rub with meal again before putting them on the toaster. Dripping may be used instead of the bacon gravy ; but then the water must be hot. The cakes can be rolled out thinner when made with hot water. Cold Porridge Scones. —Required; cold por- ridge ; oatmeal. Knead as much oatmeal into the cold porridge as it will take up; roll out with a roller to about half anBREAD, ETC. 133 inch of thickness. Cut into neat pieces, bake on a girdle; when cooked on one side, turn them. In kneading, you must be careful to take up the oatmeal gradually, as, if it be added too quickly, there will be lumps of dry oatmeal found in the scones. A girdle before using should first be put on the fire till it is very hot; then have it raised up from the fire while you are baking on it; this prevents the scones from being burned. Flour may be used instead of oat- meal. Soda Scones.—Required: y2 lb. flour; ^ of a small teaspoonful carbonate of soda; x/2 teaspoonful cream of tartar; nearly ]/2 pint butter milk ; y tea- spoonful salt. Mix the dry materials well together in a basin ; stir in enough butter milk to make a stiff but elastic dough. Turn it out on a floured board, knead it lightly till it no longer sticks to your hands ; roll out thin ; cut it out in small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake them on a tin in a hot oven for about five minutes. When they are risen and the surface is smooth, turn and cook for five minutes longer. They should be a very pale colour. Or put them on a hot girdle and cook first on one side and then on the other, as in the oven. Serve hot or cold. Sugar may be used instead of salt, and they may be made richer by rubbing 1 oz. butter or dripping into the flour before the butter milk is added. Dropped Scones.-—Dropped scones are made with the same materials as soda scones, except that about a pint of butter milk is used instead of half a pint, as the batter must be thin like pancake mixture. Grease the hot girdle with a little dripping or suet. Pour the batter in tablespoonfuls on the girdle, keep- ing each well separated; when slightly firm and little134 BREAD, ETC. bubbles rise, turn quickly with a broad knife. Serve quickly. Girdle Cakes.—Required: 6 oz. flour; y2 tea- spoonful baking powder ; i teaspoonful sugar; 2 oz. currants ; 1 oz. dripping or 2 oz. butter; about 1 gill sweet milk. Cleanse the currants; rub the dripping into the flour lightly with the fingers in a basin ; add the sugar, currants, and baking powder ; stir in as much milk as will make a stiff dough. Turn out the dough on a floured board; knead lightly ; roll out about half an inch thick; cut out into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake on a hot girdle for about ten minutes, turning them when cooked on one side. When done, put them slanting against a plate to pre- vent them becoming sodden. Flour and Water Scones.—Required: y lb. flour; about V2 gill cold water; a good pinch of salt. Mix the flour and salt together in a basin; stir in enough cold water to make a stiff dough ; turn out on a floured board ; roll out very thin ; cut into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake on a hot girdle for about five or ten minutes, turning them when cooked on one side. Serve hot. These scones are made lighter by mixing a quarter teaspoonful baking powder with the dry flour. Potato Scones.—Required: y2 lb. cold potatoes; about 2 oz. flour; about gill sweet milk; a pinch of salt. Mash the potatoes ; add the salt; knead as much flour into them as they will take up, taking care not to allow the flour to go into lumps ; add as much milk as will form it into a stiff dough ; roll out very thin on a floured board; cut into small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter, prick with a fork. Bake on a hot135 BREAD, ETC. girdle for about fiv.e minutes, turning when half cooked. Serve hot. Plain Dripping Cake.—Required: % lb. com- mon flour ; i teaspoonful baking powder; 2 table- spoonfuls sugar; 2 oz. dripping; about 1 gill cold milk ; a small pinch of salt. Rub the flour and dripping together, add the salt and sugar ; mix well; add the baking powder ; stii in enough milk to make a stiff batter ; pour into a greased tin mould, and bake in a brisk oven for half an hour. The above mixture can be made richer by adding one egg, and using butter instead of dripping ; if an egg is used, one half the quantity of baking powder is required, and rather less milk. Seed Cake is made in the same way as dripping cake, with the addition of a teaspoonful of carraway seeds. Currant Cake is made in the same way as drip- ping cake, with the addition of ^ lb. dry currants previously cleansed. Buttermilk Cake.—Required: lb. flour - ^ lb. dripping or lard : 2 oz. raisins ; 3 oz. currants ; % lb. soft sugar; ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda; ^ tea- spoonful tartaric acid ; small pinch of spice ; about 3 gills buttermilk. Cleanse the currants; remove the stones from the raisins; rub the flour and dripping lightly together with the tips of the fingers; add'the currants, raisins, sugar, soda, tartaric acid and spice. Mix the whole with a wooden spoon; add enough buttermilk to make a stiff batter. Pour into a well-greased tin, and bake in a hot oven for about an hour.DRINKS. 136 xxiv.—drinks! Tea.—Proportions: For good tea allow y2 pint boiling water to 1 teaspoonful of tea. Half fill the teapot with thoroughly boiling water; let it stand two minutes to heat the teapot; pour it away. Have the tea ready to put in immediately; add the boiling water (freshly boiled) ; let it stand from five to ten minutes ; or if the water is hard, from ten to fifteen minutes. If tea has to be kept, it should be poured oft' from the leaves, as a bitter and hurtful flavour is drawn out when the leaves are long soaked. The teapot should be well dried before it is set aside, and left with the lid open. Tea is an exhilarating and refreshing stimulant when properly prepared and taken in moderation. When it is long cooked or taken in excess it injures the nervous system and the digestion. Coffee.—Proportions: x pint boiling water to 2 heaped dessert spoonfuls of coffee. Four some boiling water into a jug with a cover; let it stand a few minutes till the jug is thoroughly hot; pour away the water. Put the coffee into the jug, add the pint of boiling water, stir with a spoon and let the jug stand in a hot place for about five minutes, then pour through a flannel bag or into a well heated coffee pot with strainer. In serving coffee, half fill the <cup with coffee and fill up with hot scalded milk. Coffee, another way.—Proportions: ry2 oz. coffee to 1 pint cold water. Put the coffee and water into a clean pan or coffee- pot on the fire; stir while it comes to the boil; when boiling add a tablespoonful (to the pint) of cold water;137 drinks. boil up again; add one tablespoonful of cold water and boil up once more. Draw the pot to the side ot the fire 3 let it stand at least ten minutes to allow the grounds to sink and the liquid to become clear. Pour off carefully, or strain through a piece of muslin. Half fill the cup with coffee and fill up with hot scalded milk. Cocoa..—Proportions: 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa to a teacupful of boiling water. Break the cocoa with a spoonful of cold water 5 stir into it gradually the boiling water. It is a great im- provement to boil cocoa for three minutes. Cocoa is very nutritious. Cocoa Nibs.—Proportions: 2 oz. cocoa nibs to 3 pints cold water. Bruise the nibs slightly ; put them into an iron pan with the water; bring slowly to the boil; simmer very slowly for about four to six hours with the lid on, stirring occasionally; the three, pints will then be reduced to two. Strain off the liquid into a basin ; let it stand till cold; then carefully remove all the fat floating on the top. This preparation may be taken either hot or cold. Oatmeal Drink.—Proportions: 1 oz. oatmeal to 1 quart milk; 1 dessert spoonful sugar. Break the oatmeal with a little cold milk; stir in the rest of the milk gradually; put into a pan on the fire; stir while coming to the boil. Simmer for a quarter of an hour; strain the mixture through a piece of muslin ; add the sugar ; serve hot or cold. Oatmeal and Water.—Proportions: 1 oz. oat- meal to 3 pints cold water; 1 oz. brown sugar. Break the oatmeal with a little cold water; stir in gradually the rest of the water; place in a pan on the fire; bring to the boil and simmer from a quarter toSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 138 half an hour ; add the sugar. Serve hot or cold ; stir up before drinking. XXV.—SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Three things must be specially attended to in invalids’ food:— 1. Every article used in cooking and serving must be perfectly clean. 2. Nothing should, if possible, be cooked within sight of the patient. 3. Food should be served punctually at the hour expected, no more than is likely to be eaten should be offered at one time, and all uneaten food should at once be removed. Ordinary Beef Tea.—Proportions: 1 pint cold water to 1 lb. lean beef. Required for a small quantity, % lb. beef; 1 gill water. Remove all skin and fat, cut the meat into very small pieces, put it into a jar, basin, or jug; pour the cold water over it, stir, cover it tightly with a lid or with paper, let it stand half an hour. Place it (still covered) in a pan of boiling water (to come half-way up the jar). Boil this for one hour, then pour the beef-tea off. Remove any fat floating on it by passing small pieces of kitchen paper or blotting paper lightly over it. If not wanted im- mediately, let it cool, and warm as much as is wanted at a time, as beef-tea spoils when kept warm. The fat is easily removed when it is cold. If salt is per- mitted by the doctor, add it when the beef and water are set to stand for half an hour. A larger quantity of meat takes longer in proportion to cook. Newly-killed beef is the best for beef-tea, as it con-SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 139 tains more juice than beef that has been kept. After the beef-tea is made, do not throw the meat away; although much of the strength is drawn out, some remains, and it may be used for various cheap dishes for which chopped meat is wanted, or may be added to the stock-pot. Essence of Beef.—Required: % lb. lean beef. Remove all skin and fat; mince the meat very small; put it into a jar or jug, and cook as m last recipe, omitting the water. Essence of beef takes from four to seven or eight hours to make, according to the quantity of meat. If wanted weaker, add hot water to the liquor when it is to be used. Raw Beef-Tea.—Required: 2 oz. lean beef; x gill water. Remove all skin and fat, mince the meat very small, put it into a basin or jug, pour the cold water over it, and let it stand for half an hour; then strain off the liquid, and serve it. It should be made fresh each time it is wanted, as it soon becomes putrid. Raw beef-tea is sometimes given during teething, dysentery, and typhoid fever, but should not be given without a doctor’s orders. Raw beef-tea should, if possible, be given in a covered cup, as the appearance is not attractive. Veal or Mutton Tea.—Prepare in the same way as ordinary beef-tea, using one of those meats instead of beef. Savoury Sago Soup.—Required: 1 oz. sago; 2 yolks of eggs; 1 pint beef-tea; 1 gill cream; 1 gill cold water. Put the sago in a pan with the water; stew gently till tender; then add 1 pint of boiling beef-tea ; cook together for a few minutes. Draw to the side of the fire; add 1 gill of cream. Beat the yolks well in aSICK-ROOM COOKERY. 140 basin; pour in slowly the mixture from the pan, stir- ring with a wooden spoon to prevent the eggs curdling Serve warm. Nourishing a Savoury Custard —Required: 2 yolks of eggs: r white of egg; i g,M of beef-tea; g02. ofbutfr- a small pinch of salt. /+ Whisk the yolks and white of egg well together in a basin; stir in the cold beef-tea. Butter slightlv a cup or small jar; put the mixture in; cover with a slightly-buttered paper. Place this in a pan of boiling water, the water coming half-way up the jar. Steam thus for about twenty minutes, taking care not to shake the jar, which would curdle the eSS- The water must be boiled slowly, to prevent the custard becoming honey-combed. Serve either hot or cold. Nourishing. Mutton Broth: Required: r lb. neck of mutton (scrag end); i oz. whole rice; i quart water; J/ tea- spoonful salt. /+ Remove all the fat from the meat; cut the meat into small pieces; wash the rice. Put the meat and salt into a pan, pour the cold water over them, bring slowly to the boil, skim carefully, and simmer for an hour. Then add the rice, bring to the boil, skim, and simmer for another hour. Remove the pieces of meat, and serve hot. Ground rice, flour, corn-flour, semolina, tapioca, or sago may be used instead of whole rice. The first three must be broken with cold water before being added to the broth, and need onlv be added a quarter of an hour before the broth is ready. Semolina may be strewed in, and cooked for a quarter of an hour. If tapioca or sago is used, it should be first soaked and then put into the pan at the same time as the meat and water, as they take long to cook.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 141 Chicken or Veal Broth.—Prepare in the same way as mutton broth, using chicken or veal instead of mutton. Ox Foot Jelly-—Required: 1 skinned ox foot, ]/x ]b. loaf sugar; 2 lemons; 1 white and shell ot egg; 2 quarts water; inch cinnamon stick; 2 cloves. Remove all the fat from the foot ; wash well in water, cut in four pieces. Put the pieces in a pan, covering them with cold water; bring to the boil and throw away the water. Wash them again in cold water; put again into the pan with the two quarts of cold water, simmer slowly for five hours, skimming carefully. By this time it will be reduced to about one quart. Strain the liquid off into a bowl : let it become cold. When stiff remove all fat from the top. Then put this jelly into a pan with the cloves, cin- namon, sugar, juice of two lemons (keeping out the pips), and thinly-pared rind of one lemon, the white and shell of one egg (slightly beaten together), and stir continuously till it almost boils. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stand till a thick scum is formed, then strain through a clean cloth. Fill a basin or mould with cold water, let it stand ten minutes, pour away the water, and pour in the jelly. Let it stand until stiff. Nourishing if other foods are also taken, and cooling. Calf’s Foot Jelly.—Prepare it in the same way as ox foot jelly, using two calf’s feet instead of one ox foot. Milk and Suet.—Required: oz. suet; x pirn milk. Chop the suet finely, tie it loosely in a piece of muslin, place it in the cold milk, bring slowly to the boil, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Then strainJ42 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. and serve tepid or warm, taking not more than a gill at a time. This preparation is nourishing and fattening- it is often given in consumption. Arrowroot.—Required: Yz oz. arrowroot; Yz pint cold water; x teaspoonful sugar. Add the cold water very slowly to the arrowroot, stirring all the time to keep it smooth. Put this and the sugar into a pan, stir till it boils and thickens: then boil for three minutes. Serve hot. There is almost no nounshment in this preparation but it is easily digested, and can sometimes be taken when nothing else is acceptable. When wine is ordered to be taken with arrowroot the above pre- paration should be used, and the wine well stirred in just before serving. Arrowroot Milk.—Required: Yz oz. arrowroot; Yz pint milk; i teaspoonful sugar. Prepare as in the last recipe, using milk instead of water.. Stir constantly over a slow fire to prevent the milk from burning. Nourishing because of the milk. Arrowroot Pudding—Required: Yz oz. arrow- root; Yi pint milk; i egg; Y\ oz. butter; i tea- spoonful sugar. Prepare the arrowroot, milk and sugar as in the last recipe. Let it cool, stir in the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie dish. Whisk the white to a stiff froth on a dry plate; stir lightly into the pudding, and allow it to brown for ten minutes in the oven or before the fire. Serve hot. Nourishing. Sago Milk.—Required: Yz oz. sago; Y pint water; i teaspoonful sugar. Steep the water and sago together for an hour, then put into a pan with the sugar. Bring gently to the143 . SICK-ROOM COOKERY. boil, stirring constantly; simmer for about half an hour or till it is quite clear and soft. If thicker than desired add boiling water. Serve hot Sago may be made with milk instead of water. Nourishing when made with milk. Tapioca Milk.—Required: Y? oz. tapioca; pint water or milk; i teaspoonful sugar. Prepare in the same way as sago, simmering the tapioca for an hour, as it is not so easily made soft as sago. Nourishing when made with milk. Rice Milk.—Required: oz. whole rice ; pint milk ; i teaspoonfiil sugar. Wash the rice; put it with the milk and sugar into a pan, bring slowly to the boil, and simmer very slowly till the rice becomes a pulp. Serve hot or cold. Nourishing. Gruel.—Required: 2 oz. oatmeal; pint cold water; teaspoonful sugar. Put the oatmeal into a basin, pour over it the cold water, let it stand for twenty minutes. Pour off the water into a pan, pressing the oatmeal with a spoon, so as to leave it as dry as possible. Put the pan on the fire, stir it till it boils, then let it simmer slowly for ten minutes, taking care not to let it burn. Add the sugar and serve hot. Y oz. fresh butter may be stirred in before serving instead of sugar. If pre- ferred, milk may be used instead of water; also Y tea- spoonful of salt may be used. The oatmeal may be used up in a haggis, crappit heads, &c. Slightly nutritious; produces perspiration. Whey.—Required: 1 pint of milk; 1 teaspoonful of rennet. Warm the milk to the heat of new milk, but do not let it become too hot; stir in the rennet, keep it warm for a few minutes till the whey appears and is clear.144 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Pour into a basin, let it cool; break up the curd and str^1.1. t'le )yhey. Nourishing and cooling. Thick Milk—Required: ^/2 pint milk; y2 0z Hour; y2 teaspoonful sugar. Break the flour with a small quantity of cold milk • add the rest of the milk gradually, stirring to keep it smooth. Put it into a pan, bring slowly to the boil (still stirring) and boil for ten minutes. Serve hot. Nourishing. T hick Milk, another way.—Prepare the flour as directed at page 150. Grate the flour, and proceed as 111 l(ie , st recipe. Nourishing, good in diarrhoea. Barley Water.—Required: 1 oz. pearl barley 3 pints water ; *4 oz. loaf sugar. 1 ut the bailey into a pan with r joint of water, bring to the boil for ten minutes, strain off the water and throw it away. Put a quart of cold water into the pan with the barley, bring to the boil and boil slowly for about two hours; add the sugar, strain, and serve cold. It allowed, a few drojos of lemon juice are a pleasant addition, or a thinly cut piece of lemon rind boiled with the barley. The barley may be used for a barley pudding. Slightly nourishing and cooling. Rice Water.—Required: y2 oz. whole rice; 1 pint cold water. A\ ash the rice. Put it into a pan with x pint of cold water; bring to the boil, boil for half an hour, strain and serve cold. If permitted by the doctor a teaspoonful of sugar may be added, and an inch of cinnamon cooked with it to give flavour. Good for diarrhoea, dysentery, and cholera. Cooling and slightly nutritious. Bread Jelly.—Required: a penny loaf (stale); 1 quart water ; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Cut the crumb into thin slices, toast on both sidesSICK-ROOM COOKERY. H5 to a light brown. Put into a pan with the sugar and cold water. Simmer slowly till it becomes a jelly; strain while hot; serve hot alone, or mix with beef tea, soup, tea, or coffee. Nourishing. Toast Water.—-Required: 1 slice bread ; 1 pint boiling water. Toast the bread on both sides till dried through and quite brown but not burnt. Put it into a basin or jug, pour over it the boiling water, let it stand till cold. Strain. Cooling. Lemonade.—Required: 1 lemon; pint boiling water. Roll the lemon on the table to soften it. Pare the rind very thin ; cut the lemon in two, squeeze the juice into a jug, keeping back the pips as they are bitter. Add half of the lemon rind and the boiling water; cover the jug, let it stand till cold, strain and use. If allowed, one ounce sugar may be added. Cooling. Orangeade.—Required: 1 sweet orange; j/4 pint boiling water. Prepare as in the last recipe. Cooling. Apple Water.—Required: 3 apples; y2 oz. sugar ; a piece of lemon rind ; 1 pint boiling water. Wipe the apples with a damp cloth, neither pare nor core them ; cut them in slices and put them into a jug with the sugar and lemon rind. Pour the boiling water over them, cover the jug and let it stand till cold. Strain off the liquid. Cooling. Useful in fevers. Egg Drink.—Required: 1 yolk of a fresh egg; 1 teaspoonful pounded sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls warm milk ; y2 pint soda water. Break the egg, separate the yolk from the white. Work the yolk and sugar together with a wooden146 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. spoon for about ten minutes, when they will form a creamy mixture. Add the warm milk; stir till smooth ; pour into a tumbler and fill it with the soda water. Very nourishing. If wine is ordered add it cold instead of the milk. Egg with Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, or Milk.— Break the egg into a tea cup; beat with a fork till well mixed. Pour in the hot tea, coffee, cocoa, or milk gradually, stirring all the time. Very nourishing. If the invalid has very weak digestion, the yolk alone should be used. POULTICES. Mustard Poultice.—Required: dry mustard; cold water. Mix enough cold water thoroughly with the mustard to make it into a thick paste ; continue to stir for two or three minutes. Spread it upon a piece of cotton. Cover the side to be applied to the patient with a piece of pocket handkerchief, or washed cotton or muslin; fold down the edges and tack them with a needle and thread to prevent the mustard escaping. To prevent the poultice chilling the patient, hold it for a few seconds to the fire, or put it on a heated plate. Be careful not to make the poultice larger than neces- sary. A mustard poultice is generally kept on from ten to twenty minutes. When it is taken off, a piece of clean wadding should be placed on the skin, or a piece of soft cotton, or flour should be dredged over the part, and a piece of soft cotton spread over it. Bread and Milk Poultice.—Required: stale bread; cold milk.147 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Boil stale bread for five minutes with enough milk to make it into a thick pulp. Spread it on a piece of cotton and apply it very hot, without any cloth be- tween, to the part affected. A few drops of warm oil rubbed over the part, prevents the poultice from sticking. When a bread poultice is to be applied to an open sore, it is better to use water than milk, as milk is apt to become sour. Bread poultices are cleansing and soothing. Linseed Meal Poultice.—Required: linseed meal; boiling water. Heat a basin with boiling water; place the basin in a larger one with boiling water round it to keep it hot. Place the linseed meal in the smaller basin ; stir in enough boiling water to make the meal into a moist paste. Then beat it quickly till it looks oily (about three minutes). Sew up three sides of a bag of flannel or cotton the size required; place it on a heated dish, or the heated back of an old tray; put the linseed meal into it; fold over and sew up the opening quickly. Apply the poultice to the affected part as hot as can be borne. If mustard is ordered with this poultice, stir a tablespoonful of dry mustard into it when nearly ready. Linseed meal poultices are especially valuable be- cause when well made they form a thick pulp from which no water trickles down to annoy the patient; they are generally given to allay inflammation. Oatmeal Poultices.—Required: oatmeal; boiling water. Make in the same way as porridge. Cnarcoal Poultice.—Required: 1 teaspoonful powdered vegetable charcoal; a small poultice of bread and water or linseed meal, or porridge.148 INFANT’S FOOD. Make a small poultice as already directed ; sprinkle the charcoal over it; cover with a piece of muslin and apply the charcoal side to the part affected. Good for bedsores, &-r. Fomentation of Poppy Heads and Camo- mile Flowers. Required: 4 02. poppy heads: 2 oz camomile flowers; about 1 ^ pints boiling water. jreak up the heads; pour the boiling water over them; boil for about seven minutes; then add the camom.le flowers ; boil for three minutes longer; strain h0} ^T'’ keep u hot; diP P‘eces of flannel into it and apply externally to the part affected. Good for toothache. XXVI.—INFANTS FOOD. . Infants should be fed at fixed hours by day and night at regular intervals of two to three hours for the first two months, and of three to four hours afterwards. I he intervals by night maybe lengthened sooner than the intervals by day. Nature has provided in the milk of the mother a suitable and sufficient nutriment for the infant. Ex- ceptional circumstances may prevent the mother nursing it. It then becomes necessary to provide other food which should be chosen to resemble as far as possible that supplied by the mother. 1 he best substitute is warm ass’s milk ; next to this comes cow’s or goat’s milk mixed with one-third or more of water hot enough to make the mixture warm (about 96 or 98 Fahr.), and a very small quantity of sugar of milk. The milk should, if possible, be always got from the same animal. To prevent the milk from spoiling it may be scalded (not boiled) when received from the dairy. Sugar of milk, which may be149 INFANT’S FOOD. obtained at the chemists, is preferable to cane or beet sugar which are apt to cause acidity. Should there be any tendency to rickets, lime water should be substituted for one half of the common water to be mixed with the milk. Lime water may be purchased at the chemists, or made thus :— Lime Water.—Take a piece of unslaked lime the size of a walnut, put it into a quart bottle of water, let it stand twenty-four hours, then filter, and it is ready for use. In most cases when a child has had enough of food, it will show a disinclination for more. Nurses often err in forcing more upon it, and there is nothing more apt to injure the digestion of a child than to stop its crying fits (many of which proceed from over feeding) by offering it food. Only enough for one meal should be prepared at a time, as milk becomes sour, and the slightest sourness makes the milk ferment, and is very hurtful to the infant. For the same reason great care must be taken to have the bottle in which the milk is given perfectly clean. It should be thoroughly washed after each time of using in very hot water, and then laid in cold water till required. The difficulty of keeping india rubber tubes clean is a strong objection to their use. The best bottles to use are those with the nipple directly attached to them without the tube. In some cases the milks mentioned do not suit the infant. Swiss milk may then be tried; instructions for preparing it are given on the tins. After three or four months the quantity of water mixed with the milk should be gradually lessened ; at six months the milk may be almost undiluted, and after six months the infant may occasionally have one of the following preparations instead of milk. Pap.—Take stale bread, cover it with cold water,INFANT’S FOOD. ISO and boil it for five minutes. Strain off as much of the ^ater as you can, bruise the bread till it is smooth, bnl c ™llk 'varmed but not boiled, and a very ittle sugar ot milk; mix till quite smooth. This food should be given warm (about 96° or 98° Fahr.). Kusks. Prepare as in last recipe. „ „ lour*—Tie some flour tightly in a cloth as if it \ere a pudding; put it into boiling water, and boil for about four hours, when it will be quite hard. Open the ball, use in the proportion of a 'A oz. flour to a y2 pint milk and a ^ teaspoonful of sugar of milk. Scrape as much of the flour as you require for a meal; add the sugar; mix to a smooth paste with a little cold milk; add the rest of the milk gradually, rlace m a pan, and stir over the fire till it boils; let it boil tor three minutes, remove from the fire, and let it cool till it is only warm (96° or 98° Fahr.). If preferred, the flour may be baked for the same length of time in a slow oven. This is good for an infant who has a tendency to diarrhoea. In all such cases the milk should be boiled, but it must be allowed to cool before being used, as the food must not be given above the heat mentioned. The occasional use of these foods prepares the way for weaning. Weaning in a child of average health takes place about nine months after birth. During weaning, in addition to plain milk, a fresh egg well beaten may be given in say three portions during the day, with some milk mixed with it. After weaning, a little beef-tea (see page 138, ordinary beef-tea,) may be given—not more than 2 oz. (four tablespoonfuls) a "day. No farinaceous foods should be given until after weaning, as there is no saliva to mix with and prepare them for digestion until the teeth come. In the pap and flour mixtures already mentioned the starch is driven outINFANT’S FOOD. 1ST by boiling. As the teeth come, animal and vegetable food may be gradually added in small quantities, but the diet of young children should consist chiefly of milk and eggs, either taken separately or made into puddings with semolina, rice, arrowroot, etc. (see page no). . It must be understood that the foregoing remarks are quite general in their nature, and subject to mocli- fication for even healthy infants. The patent foods suit some children; a little beef-tea before weaning agrees well with others. Warning.—Mothers cannot be too strongly warned against giving infants either spirituous liquors or opiates—that is, soothing syrups, etc. Spirituous liquors cause inflammation of the coats of the stomach, and lay the foundation of many diseases in afterlife. Opiates injure the nervous system, make the child nervous and irritable, and hurt digestion. All soothing powders contain opium (even Dalby’s Carminative), and should only be used when ordered by a doctor.152 APPENDIX. SUGGESTIONS FOR ARRANGING COOKERY CLASSES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. If n. school can be so built nq tn Sss ri^rgedas Ai«chet:ooLuo«r as T * ated schoolroom with little or no inconvenience. Cookery may be taught in two ways—first bv de monstration, in which the teacher cooks and expkins e .flsl)es ’ sfcond, by practice classes, in which the pupfis themselves cook. If managers of elemental schools can give the money and allow the time to ave the children taught first by demonstration and training that is the most borough First.—rn demonstration classes the number of pupils that can be admitted depends upon the accom- modation It is advisable to have the seats slightly raised; if this cannot be done, the teacher must teach from a small platform. She should have either a gas stove or a projecting American stove to cook with as, if an ordinary close or open range is used, she would require constantly to turn away from her class m attending to the pots and pans on the fire. The utensils should be such as are commonly used bv a working man’s family. 3153 APPENDIX. Second.—In order to gain from a practice class its peculiar advantages as compared with demonstrations, each dish should be entirely cooked by certainly not more than two pupils. Ten, or at most twelve, pupils so coupled are as many as a teacher can efficiently direct at one time. For practice lessons it is advisable to have a kitchen-range of the kind usually used by the working classes of the district. To enable a class of ten or twelve girls to work at the same time, this should be supplemented by the gas or American stove already mentioned. A sink should be fitted up in the room in which practice lessons are conducted; also a cupboard to hold utensils and stores. Utensils Required for Demonstration Lessons.1 1 small girdle 1 kettle 1 fish kettle 1 large saucepan 1 medium do. 1 smaller do. 1 very small do. 1 frying pan x smaller do. 1 medium stew pan x small do. 1 colander 1 strainer 1 pint measure 1 pair scissors 1 vegetable bruiser 3 skewers 1 flour dredger 2 boards 1 rolling pin 1 carrot grater 1 egg brush 1 small fish slice 1 toasting fork 2 baking tins and 2 baking sheets 6 patty tins 1 soup ladle 4 wooden spoons 6 iron do. 3 teaspoons 1 pointed knife 1 small pointed potato knife 1 onion knife 3 dinner knives and forks 1 knife board 3 blacklead brushes 1 scrubbing brush 1 small tub 1 pitcher 1 teapot 1 coffee pot 6 bowls (2 with rims) 4 small pie dishes 6 jugs 9 dinner plates 3 soup do. 3 cups and saucers 6 towels 6 dusters 2 pudding cloths they are 1 Scales and weights may be used, but are not essential; rarely found in an artisan's home.ATPENDIX. 154 Additional Utensils Class of Ten i smaller fish kettle 1 large saucepan 1 medium do. 2 smaller do. i very small do. i frying pan 1 stew pan, medium 2 small do. i tin roasting screen, ladle, and dripping tin i gridiron 1 Dutch oven 2 boards i rolling pin 8 wooden spoons 3 iron do. Required for a Practice or Twelve Pupils. i small pointed potato knife 1 onion knife 6 dinner knifes 6 bowls, 3 with rims 8 small pie dishes 4 pie dishes a little larger 3 meat dishes 3 dinner plates 3 soup do. 3 cups and saucers 2 very large brown earthen- ware basins 6 jars 6 towels 6 dusters 2 pudding clothsINDEX. Ages, different food for, 20. Albumen, r6. Apple pudding, 109; dumpling, 118 ; dumpling, boiled, 109 ; water, 145. . Arrowroot, 142; milk, 142 ; pudd- ing, 142 ; sauce, 129. Bacon and eggs, 77; toasted, 77. Baking, general directions for, 44. Barley, pudding, 114; ground, pudding, 114; water, 144. Beans, French, to cleanse, 38. Beef, how to choose, 29 ; corned, 65; olives, 70; roast, 63; rolled ribs of, 63 ; stewed, 70. Beefsteak, broiled, 65 ; pudding, xo8 ; pie, 106. Beef tea, ordinary, 26, 138; raw, 139 ; essence of, 139. Beetroot, 100. Bird’s nest pudding, 122. Black cap pudding, 117. Blackleading, 34. Boiling, general directions for, 41. Brain cakes, 67. Brass knobs, to clean, 34. Brazilian stew, 71. Bread, 9, 130. and butter pudding, 115. jelly, 144. and milk poultice, 146, pudding, 115. sauce, 129. soup, 51. and meat shape, 80. Broiling, general directions for, 40. Brose, fat, 92; peas,92; fat peas,92. Broth, 48. Browning, 89. Brown, economical,soup,55; richer soup, 56 ; vegetable soup, 51. Bubble and squeak, 82. Buttermilk cake, 135. Cabbage, 97; to cleanse, 37; soup, 50. Calf's foot jelly, 141. Camomile flowers fomentation, 148 Caper sauce, 128. Carrots, boiled, 96; to cleanse, 37 ; dumpling, 118. Cauliflower, 97 ; to cleanse, 37. Charcoal poultice, 147. Cheap dishes without meat, 89. Chicken broth, 141. Chop, 65. Clarify dripping, to, 84. Cleanse vegetables, to, 37. ,, utensils, to, 34. Clear soup, 57. Climates, diet for different, 21. Cocoa, 137; nibs, 137. Coffee, two ways, 136. Colcannon, 97. Colds, diet for, 26. Cold meat cookery, 79. Collops, mince, 69. Constipation, diet for, 26. Cookery classes in elementary schools, suggestions for, 152. Cookery, the principles of, 16. Corned beef, 65. Cornflour, shape of, 116. Cornish pasties, 104. Cowheel, stewed, 76. Crappit heads, 63. Crust, economical flaky, 104; richer flaky, 105 ; economical short, 103; richer, 103; oat- meal pie, 107. Crystal, to cleanse, 37. Currant puddings, 93 ; dumpling, 118 ; cake, 135.INDEX. 156 Curry,73; dumpling,118; soup, 55. Custard pudding, 116; sauce, 129. Cutlets, dressed, 78. Dandelions, 99. Demonstration lessons, utensils required for, 133. Diagrams of ox, with explanation, 30- Diagrams of sheep, with explana- tion, 32. Diarrhoea, diet in, 25. Dysentery, diet in, 23. Dough dumpling, 119. Dropped scones, 133. Foods, warmth or heat-giving, 10. Fomentation of poppy head, 148.' Forks, knives and, to cleanse, 36. Fowl, how to choose, 29 ; boil. 66 ; draw a, 84; roast, 64 ; truss a,' for boiling, 85; truss a, for roasting, 84. Frying, general directions for. 43. General rules in cooking, 16. Girdle cakes, 134. Goblet pie, no. Goose pudding, 89. Grate or range, to' cleanse, 34. Gruel, 143. Eggs, how to choose, 30; baked, 125; to boil, 124; to hard boil, 124 ; poached, 125 ; rummeled, 125; snow, 126. Egg drink, 145; sauce, 128. Egg with tea, coffee, cocoa, pr milk, 146. Employments, diet in different, 22. Explanation of various terms, 46. Fat, to render down, 83. Fever, diet in, 25 ; rheumatic, diet in, 25. Fig pudding, 121. Filter, a cheap, 89. Fire, to lay a, 35. Fish, how to choose, 29 ; baked, 60 ; boiled, 59 ; boiled salt, 59; cakes, 59; filleted fried, 58 ; j pudding, 60; soup, 52; to fry, -58- Flavouring-;, 14. Flesh formers, 11. Flour and dripping dumplings, j Haddocks, finnon, 62; stuffed and baked, 60. Haggis, pan, 86 ; sheep’s, 85. Ham, how to choose, 29 ; boil, 66. Haricot beans, 101 ; with mutton, i 69- Haricot bean soup, 49. 1 ,, mutton, 68. ! Hash, 79. Hasty pudding, 117. Health, different states of, 25. Heart, roast, 64; sheep's, roast, 64. Herrings, baked, 61 : fried, 39: stewed, 61. Hotch-potch, 54. Indigestion, diet in, 26. Indoor occupations, diet for, 22. Infant's food, 148. Influenza, diet in, 26. Irish stew, 68. Jam, 87. Jelly, 88; ox-foot, 141. 119- Flour and water scones, 134. Flour, 9, 130. Food, adaptation of, to varying circumstances, 19; animal, 16 ; general statement of the com- ponent parts of our chief, 15 ; infant's, 148 ; the materials of, 9 ; uses of, 8 ; wholesomeness of, 8. I Kidney soup, 34. J Kidneys, stewed, 72. Knights, Poor, 123. Knives and forks, to cleanse, 36. Lamb's head, dressed (boiled), 66. Lemonade, 145. Lemon dumpling, 1x8 ; pudding, 1 120; sponge, 122. Lentil soup, 49.INDEX. 157 Lettuce, to cleanse, 37 , boiled, I6O. Lights, stewed, 74. Lime water, 149. Linseed poultice, 147. Liver puddings, 86. Luns, Sally, 131. Macaroni and milk pudding, 113. and cheese, 92. ’’ and meat shape, 80. ’’ plain boiled, 101. Mackerel, broiled, 62. Marmalade pudding, 121. Mealy puddings, 93. Measures, tables of, 28. Meat, cheap dishes without, 89 ; pickle for, 88; Sanders, 81 ; salad, 82; how to choose, 29; names and uses of various pieces of, 30. Melted butter sauce, 127. „ „ cheap, 127. Milk. 9. Milk rolls, 131; soup, 49; and suet, 141 ; thick, two ways, 144. Mince collops, 69. Mint sauce, 129. Miscellaneous recipes, 117. Mushrooms, how to choose, 101 ; grilled, 101 ; stewed, 102. Mustard relish, 130 ; poultice, 146. Mutton, how to choose, 29 ; broth, 140; leg of (boiled), 63 ; roast, 63; tea, 139; with haricot beans, 69. Nettles (boiled), 99. Norfolk dumplings, 119. Oatcakes, 132. Oatmeal drink, 137. ,, and water, 137. ,, poultice, 147. Omelet, 123. Onions, to cleanse, 28; baked, a8 ; . stewed, 98. Onion soup, 50 ; sauce, 128. Orangeade, 145. Outdoor occupations, diet for, 23. Ox, mode of cutting up, 30. Ox-cheek soup, 33. Ox-foot jelly, 141. Ox-tail soup, 53. Pancakes, 126; snow, 88. Pans, to cleanse, brass, 33. „ „ copper 35. ,, enamelled, 35. „ „ iron, 35. Pan kail, 47. Pap, 149. Parsley sauce, 128. Pastry, 103. Peas soup, 48. Peas pudding, 94; boiled, 97; stewed with bacon, 98. Pickle for meat, 88. Plaice, stewed, 61. Plain dripping cake, 133. Plain plum pudding, 119. Plates, dishes, &c., to cleanse, 36. Poor man's goose, 87. Poppy head, fomentation of. 148. Pork, roast, 64. Porridge, 83. ,, cold scones, 132. Potatoes, to cleanse, 37; old, boiled in their jackets, 93 ; old, boiled without their jackets, 95 ; baked, 95 ; mashed, 96; new, 96 ; new Swiss way, 96. Potato pudding, 116; scones, 134; soup, 48. Pot-au-feu, 56. Practice lessons, additional utensils required for, 154. Pulses, 12, 16. Rabbit and onions stewed, 72. ,, another way, 72. ,, with brown sauce, 72. Railway pudding, 124. Rice for curry, too. ,, and apple pudding, 122. ,, and cheese, 90. ,, boiled with meat, xor. „ milk, 143.158 INDEX. Rice water, 144. „ shape, 113. „ pudding, in. >• raised, 1x2. >* >> steamed, 112. without eggs, hi. Rissoles, 8r. Roasting, general directions for, 38' Roast, savoury, 64. Roly poly, 109; baked, 110; meat, no. Rusks, 150. Russian fish pie, 106. Sago, milk, 142 • pudding, 1x4. Salad, plain, 102; sauce, 130. Sally Luns, 131. Salt, effects of, 17. Salts, 13. Sausages, fried, 77. Sausage rolls, 107. Savoury custard, 140; fish pie, 60; potatoes, 91; rice, 90; croquettes, 91; sago soup, 139. Seed cake, 135. Semolina pudding, 114. » steamed, 114. Sheep, mode of cutting up a, 32. Sheep’s head pie, 107. Shepherd's pie, 79. Sick-room cookery, 138. Soda scones, 133. Soups, 46. Spanish stew, 73. Spinach, to cleanse, 38. ,, boiled, 99. Starch, 9, 10, Steak fried in the pan, 76. Steaming, general directions, 41. Steel, to cleanse, 34. Stewing, general directions for, 42. Stock, 57. Stockpot, 47. Stomach complaints, diet for, 26. ROBERT M Suet dumplings, 1x7. „ paste, 108. Sugar, 9, 10. Sweet rice croquettes, gr. Swiss roll, 123. „ stew, 71. Table of weights and measures, 28. Tables and shelves, to cleanse, 36. 1 Tapioca milk, 143. ! „ pudding, 113. Tart, fruit, 103. Tartlets, 104. Tea, 27, 136. Tins, to cleanse, 36. >> i) cake, 36. Toad in the hole, 87. Toast water, 145. Tripe, dressed, 75; fried, 78 ; stewed, 75. Treacle pudding, 121. ,, sauce, 129. Turnips, to cleanse, 38. „ boiled, 97. Veal, knuckle of, stewed, 74. j ,, brotn, 141. „ olives, 71. „ tea, 139. Vegetables, principles of cookery, l8. Vegetables, to cleanse, 37. Vegetable soup, 52. Wakefield pudding, 121. Water, 13. Water bottles, to cleanse, 37. Weaning, 150. Welsh rabbit, 93. Weights, tables of, 28. Whey, 143. White sauce, 128. » plain, 129. ,, sweet, 128. Yorkshire pudding, 117.i SCIENCE PRIMERS. UNDER THE JOINT EDITORSHIP OF PROFESSORS HUXLEY, ROSCOE, AND BALFOUR STEWART. “They are wonderfully clear and lucid in their instruction, simple in style and admirable in plan.’’—Educational Times. The following are now ready :— Chemistry. By H. E. Roscoe, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in Owens College, Manchester. i8mo. Illustrated, is. With Questions. Physics. By Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens College, Manchester. i8mo. Illus- trated. is. With Questions. Physical Geography. By A. Geikie, F.R.S., Mur- chison Professor of Geology and Mineralogy at Edinburgh. i8mo. Illustrated, is. With Questions. Geology. By Professor Geikie, F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. i8mo. is. Physiology. By Michael Foster, M.D., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. i8mo. is. Astronomy. By J. Norman Locicyer, F.R.S. With • numerous Illustrations. i8mo. is. Botany. By Sir J. D. Hooker, K.C.S.I., C.B., Presi- dent of the Royal Society. Illustrated. i8mo. is. Logic. By Professor Stanley Jevons, F.R.S. i3mo. IS. Political Economy. By Professor Jevons, F.R.S. i8mo. is. Introductory. By Prof. Huxley, F.R.S. [.In the Press. V OTHERS PREPARING. MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.2 HISTORY AND LITERATURE PRIMERS. Edited by JOHN RICHARD GREEN, Author of“A Short History of the English People ** In cloth, i8raoK price is. each. Homer. By the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone. English Grammar Exercises. By R._ Morris, LL.D., and H. C. BOWEN. English Grammar. By R. Morris, LL.D. History of Rome. By M. Creighton, M.A. With Maps. History of Greece. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. With Maps. English Literature. By the Rev. Stopford Brooke, m.a. History of Europe. By E. A. Freeman, D.C.L., LL.D. With Maps. Greek Antiquities. By J. P. Mahaffy, M.A. Illus- trated. Roman Antiquities. By Prof. A. S. Wilkins. Illus- trated. Classical Geography. By H. F. Tozer. •* Geography. By George Grove, F.R.G.S. With Maps. Children’s Treasury of Lyrical Poetry. By F. T. PALGRAVE. In Two Parts, is. each. Shakspere. By Prof. Dowden. Philology. By J. Peile, M.A. Greek Literature. By Prof. Jebb, M.A. France. By Charlotte M. Yonge. English Composition. By Prof. Nichol. *»* OTHERS TO FOLLOW. MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.