THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA—No. 1. INTERIOR OF THORAX, AFTER REMOVAL OF THE THYMUS GLAND, THE PERICARDIUM, AND ITS CONTENTS, ETC. In the Superior Mediastinum, the left innominate vein (1) formed behind the sternal end of the left clavicle, passes obliquely across to join the right innominate vein and form the superior vena cava behind the first right costal cartilage, receiving in its course the inferior thyroid, vertebral, internal mammary, first intercostal, and superior intercostal veins of the left side. The trachea passes downwards with a slight inclination to the right, and terminates at. the upper border of the 5th dorsal vertebra, by dividing into the two Bronchi, which pass to the roots of the lungs. The right bronchus, which is shorter, but larger and more vertical than the left one, is crossed in front by the right phrenic nerve and the superior vena cava, and the vena azygos major arches over it, while the aortic arch (5) with the left recurrent laryngeal nerve hooking round it, crosses over the left bronchus, and the descending thoracic aorta passes behind it. In the Posterior Mediastinum the oesophagus (9) with the plexus gulae on its wall, lies first co the right, then in front, and, lower down, to the left of the descending thoracic aorta. The anterior margins of the lungs overlap the hollow for the heart, the right being straight and the left notched, the mediastinal surface of the left lung presents a distinct depression for the heart and pericardium, while the corresponding surface of the right lung is less concave. The figures indicate— 1. Left innominate vein. 5. Aortic arch. 2. Formation of superior vena cava, and termination 6. Vena azygos major. of right internal mammary vein. 7. Left internal mammary artery. 3. Left internal mammary vein. 8. Right phrenic nerve. 4. Left subclavian artery, and left vagus nerve. 9. Oesophagus and plexus gulae.