Igh stereoscopic atlas of anatomy. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 13. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN FROM ABOVE AND FROM BEHIND TO SHOW THE BRAIN-STEM AND THE SYSTEM OF VENTRICULAR CAVITIES. FROM Above, the cerebral hemispheres have been sliced away down to the level of the corpus callosum; the body of the corpus callosum has been turned over to the right, and the fornix and the velum interpositum have been removed. FROM Behind, the cerebellum and the posterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres have been removed, and the inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles exposed from below. A minute Rod is passed from the fourth ventricle into the central canal of the cord; another Rod traverses the aqueduct of Sylvius and passes from the fourth ventricle into the third ventricle. The four rounded eminences, termed the corpora quadrigemina, on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon are not lettered ; nor is the pineal body which lies between the upper pair of corpora quadrigemina. The areas on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and the clava, cuneate tubercle, and Rolandic tubercle on the back of the medulla oblongata are well seen, but are not lettered. Note on the medulla the thin lamina, termed the ligula, which is attached to the outer surface of the restiform body. 1. Corpus callosum, 2. Septum lucidum. 3. Fornix (divided). 4. Intraventricular part of upper surface of optic thalamus. 5. Groove on the upper surface of the thalamus which corresponds to the edge of the fornix. 6. Extraventricular part of upper surface of thalamus. 7. Pulvinar. 8. External geniculate body. 9. Taenia thalami. 10. Trigonum habenulae. 12. Inferior brachium passing from inferior quadrigeminal body. 13. Internal geniculate body. 14. Fourth or trochlear nerve. 15. Caudate nucleus. 16. Position of taenia semicircularis. Valve of Vieussens. 18. Superior cerebellar peduncle"! • 19. Middle cerebellar peduncle 1,2 20. Inferior cerebellar peduncle J V (restiform body) 21. Crus cerebri. 22. Eminentia teres. 23. Striae acusticse. 24. Vagoglossopharyngeal fascicles. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. *v m uli; </>2 ■ 3 2 § i cc - z . i