THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 10. ANTERIOR SURFACE OF THE HEART IN TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATION TO THE CHEST-WALL. The lungs have been removed, and the sternum and ribs replaced. The pericardium has been removed from the front of the heart. The following lines indicate the outline of the heart as seen from the front:— (1) The lower border extends nearly horizontally from the sixth right costal cartilage, three- quarters of an inch from the right margin of the sternum to the apex beat in the fifth left interspace. (2) The upper border extends behind the sternum immediately above the third costal cartilages, extending beyond the sternal margin about an inch on the left side, and about half an inch on the right. (3) The right and left margins may be indicated by lines slightly convex outwards, joining the corresponding extremities of the other lines. The depth of different portions from the surface was as follows:—Measurements being taken in each case from the posterior aspect of the sternum or costal arch. The aorta is at a depth of one inch from the second right costal cartilage, the tip of the right auricle is one inch from the third right costal cartilage, the apex of the heart is at the same depth from the fifth left costal arch, and the root of the pulmonary artery is rather more than an inch from the sternum. The anterior surface of the heart and great vessels shows a curvature adapted to the curvature of the chest-wall, so that nearly all points on this surface lie at a depth of almost exactly one inch. A portion of the anterior auriculo-ventricular furrow is seen running obliquely across the heart, and the transverse width of the heart is in this case four inches. The figures indicate— 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 11. Superior vena cava and right phrenic nerve. 8. Diaphragm. 12. Right auricular appendix. 9. Left ventricle, slightly above the apex. 13. Anterior auriculo-ventricular sulcus. 10. Pulmonary artery.