THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 4. SAGGITAL SECTION THROUGH THE ENTIRE BRAIN SLIGHTLY TO THE LEFT SIDE OF THE MESIAL PLANE. sen ; also the Third and Fourth The Convolutions and Fissures on the mesial surface of the cerebrum Ventricles of the brain and the parts in relation to them. 10. Marginal gyrus. Calloso-marginal sulcus. Callosal gyrus. Paracentral lobule. 17 Upper end of fissure of Rolando. 18 Callosal fissure. Precuneus. 19 Internal parieto-occipital fis- sure. Cuneus. Calcarine fissure. N.B.—The posterior cuneo-ling- ual gyrus is on the surface, breaking up the calcarine fis- 20, sure into two parts. ^ \ Lingual gyrus. 22, Genu of the corpus callosum. N. B.— The narrow part extend- ing backwards from this is the rostrum. <>g Body of corpus callosum. Spleniiim of corpus callosum. Septum lucidum. Body of fornix. 24. N.B. — The divided anterior pil- Glass Rods.—Anterior rod in lar of the fornix is seen immedi- ately in front of the upright rod. Velum interpositum. Anterior commissure—trans- versely divided. Lamina cinerea (lamina ter- minalis). N.B.—Immediately below this number is the optic recess of the third ventricle, and below that again the optic chiasma transversely divided. Optic nerve. Cavity of third ventricle. Middle commissure (below which is seen the sulcus of Monro on the lateral wall of the ventricle). Mesial surface of optic thala- mus (note the tasnia thalami running along the upper edge of this surface). Pineal body (note the pineal recess of the third ventricle 26. 31, 32. 33 31 the foramen of Monro; posterior rod in the carried back in a fissure-like manner into the stalk of the pineal body). Infundibulum of pituitary body. Tuber cinereum; immediately behind are the corpora mam- millaria. One of these bodies is divided ; note the central nucleus of grey matter and the surrounding capsule of white matter. Third or oculo-motor nerve. Cms cerebri (number immedi- ately below the red nucleus). Corpora quadrigemina. Substantia ferruginea (number in front of superior medullary velum). Pons Varolii (note pyramidal fibres passing down through it). Bulb or medulla (pin transfixes the inferior olivary nucleus). Fourth ventricle of the brain. Olfactory bulb, aqueduct of Sylvius.