THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 2. TWO SPECIMENS VIEWED FROM BEHIND AND SLIGHTLY FROM BELOW. In A:—The aortic arch, lies first in front of the trachea and then to the left of the trachea, of the oesophagus (9), thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The descending thoracic aorta, commencing at the lower border of the 4th dorsal vertebra, passes downwards and to the right, behind the root of the left lung and the oesophagus. The inferior surface of the heart, flattened in relation to the diaphragm, is separated from the antero- superior surface by the rounded left margin, and is traversed by the inferior interventricular furrow. The base of the heart covered by pericardium, lies in front of the descending thoracic aorta, the oesophagus, and the lower right pulmonary vein; the inferior vena cava (6) partly invested by pericardium (14) opens into its lower right angle, the superior into the tipper. The principal constituents of the right pulmonary root are the right bronchus (10) giving off its eparterial branch, the right pulmonary artery (7) and veins (S). In B :—The openings of the great vessels into the pericardium, which is grooved for the trachea (9) the right bronchus (10), and the oesophagus (11). When the heart is contracted, a tongue-shaped process of pericardium projects forwards from the apex. The figures indicate- A 9. Oesophagus. 1. Innominate artery. 10. Right bronchus. 3. Left subclavian artery. 11. Oesophagus, with plexus gulae. 4. Aorta. 12. Right and left aortic inter- 5. Right innominate vein passing costal arteries. into superior vena cava. 13. Left innominate vein. 6. Inferior vena cava, with peri- 14. Pericardium. cardium (14). 7. Right pulmonary artery. B 6. Right pulmonary veins. 1. innominate artery. 2. Left common carotid artery. 3. Left subclavian artery. 4. Aorta. 5. Superior vena cava receiving vena azygos major. 7. Right pulmonary artery. 8. Right pulmonary veins. 9. Groove lor trachea. 10. Groove for right bronchus. 11. Groove for oesophagus