THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 139 What are the other Ganglia of the Sympathetic ? There are on each side of the vertebral column u or 12 dorsal ganglia, 4 or 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, besides the single coccygeal Ga?iglion Itnpar in which terminates the double chain. Connected with the viscera are many ganglia, from which branches ramify around the arteries in plexuses named from their locations. Describe the Splanchnic Nerves. They are 3 in number on each side, and are derived from branches of the 6 lower thoracic ganglia, as follows, viz.— * Great Splanchnic, from branches of the 6th to the 10th, connecting with the upper six, passes through the posterior mediastinum, perforates the crus of the diaphragm, to the semilunar ganglion. Lesser Splanchnic, from the 10th and 1 ith, passes through the diaphragm with the great splanchnic, to the coeliac plexus. Smaller or Renal Splanchnic, from the last thoracic ganglion, also perforates the diaphragm, and ends in the renal and coeliac plexuses. Describe the Solar Plexus. This plexus, called also the “ abdominal brain,” is a network of nerves and ganglia, chiefly formed by the splanchnic nerves and the right pneumogastric. It lies behind the stomach, and in front of the aorta and the crura of the diaphragm, surrounding the coeliac axis and the root of the superior mesenteric artery. Its two largest ganglia are the Semilunar Ganglia situated in front of the crura of the diaphragm. From it are derived branches which form Plexuses over most of the abdominal arteries, as follows :— Phrenic. Gastric. Splenic. Renal. Superior Mesenteric. Coeliac. Hepatic. Suprarenal. Spermatic. Inferior Mesenteric. Describe the Carotid and Cavernous Plexuses. They are two plexuses of the sympathetic, situated on the internal carotid artery, the Carotid lying on the outer side of the artery, as it lies by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone; and the Cavernous being on the inner side of the artery, below its last bend, in the upper portion of the cavernous sinus. The— Carotid Plexus,—is connected by numerous filaments with the 6th nerve and the Gasserian ganglion, and furnishes the Large Deep Petrosal to unite with the large superficial petrosal of the facial, to form the Vidian nerve ; also the Small Deep Petrosal, to join the tympanic plexus prob- ably. Cavernous Plexus,—communicates with the 3d and 4th nerves and the ophthalmic division of the 5th, and gives a branch to the Ciliary ganglion in the orbit.