27 THE INFERIOR MAXIIXARY RONE. Fig. 11. Anterior Border,3 is grooved for the ethmoidal plate and the nasal cartilage. Inferior Border,K the longest, articulates with the nasal crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Posterior Border, is free and presents towards the pharynx. Naso-palatine Grooves, laterally, for the naso-palatine nerves. Furrows, on the lateral surfaces,6 for vessels and nerve-filaments. Name its articulations, centres, and muscles. The vomer articulates with 6 bones,—the sphenoid, ethmoid, 2 superior maxillary, and 2 palate bones. It is developed by one centre, which appears about the 6th foetal week in cartilage between two laminae which coalesce after puberty. It has no muscles attached to it. THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. Describe its general characteristics. The inferior maxillary bone forms the lower jaw, receives the inferior teeth, and is the second bone of the body in which ossification appears, the clavicle being the first. It consists of a body and two rami. Describe the Body of the bone. It is shaped somewhat like a horse- shoe, and presents for examination the following; viz.— Alveolar Portion, above the oblique line, containing on its upper border alveoli for 16 teeth in the adult, for 10 in the child. Symphysis, a vertical ridge on the median line, marking the junction of the two symmetrical portions of which the bone originally consisted. Alental Process, a prominent triangular eminence, forming the chin. Externally on each side from the symphysis backwards, are the— Incisive Fossa, above the chin, for the origin of the levator menti. Alental Foramen, below the 2d bicuspid alveolus, transmitting the mental artery and nerve. External Oblique Line, for the origins of the depressor labii inferioris and depressor anguli oris muscles from its anterior half. Groove, near the angle, for the facial artery. Internally, on each side from the median depression backwards, are the— Genial Tubercles, the superior for the genio-hyo-glossus muscle; the inferior for the genio-hyoid. Mylo-hyoid Ridge, obliquely backwards, for the mylo-hyoid muscle.