183 THE TESTES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Meatus Urinarius,—the external orifice of the urethra, is situated at the summit of the glans penis. Prepuce,—a prolongation of the integument of the penis, covering or partly covering the glans penis. Frenum Preputii,—a fold of mucous membrane lying along the raphe of the glans penis, and connecting the prepuce thereto. Glands of Tyson,—small lenticular sebaceous glands opening on the corona and cervix of the glans, and secreting an odorous sebaceous matter, which is easily decomposed. Of what does Erectile Tissue consist ? Of an intricate venous plexus, supplied by afferent arteries and emptied by efferent veins. Such are the essential features of the erectile tissue of the penis, which is lodged in the interspaces between the trabeculae of the fibrous structure. What are the Helicine Arteries ? They are peculiar vine-like arterial branches, which project in a convoluted manner into the venous plexuses in the posterior portion of the penis. Enumerate the Vessels and Nerves of the Penis. Its— Arteries,—are derived from the internal pudic, and are the— Artery of the Bulb,—to the corpus spongiosum. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum,—to that structure. Dorsal Artery of the Penis,—to the glans, prepuce and skin. Veins,—empty into the Dorsal Vein of the Penis, the prostatic plexus and the pudic vein. The venous plexuses of the erectile tissue are very intricate, and remarkably developed. Lymphatics,—the superficial terminate in the inguinal glands; the deep set joins the deep lymphatics of the pelvis. Nerves,—are derived from the internal pudic nerve, and the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. THE TESTES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. What are the Testes ? The Testes or Testicles are the glandular organs which secrete the seminal fluid,—two oval bodies suspended obliquely in the * scrotum by the spermatic cords, each measuring about an inch in diameter, and weighing 3^ oz. to an ounce. What is the Scrotum ? A cutaneous pouch, consisting of 2 layers—the integument and the Darios,—the latter being a contractile vascular tunic, con- tinuous with the superficial fascia of the thighs and perineum, and forming a septum in the scrotum between the two cavities for the testes. Describe the Essential Coats of the Testis. They are 3 in number, as follows, viz. : the—