NERVOUS SYSTEM. 258 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.-Continued. The Eighth Pair (Willis) includes the 9th Glossopharyngeal, 10th Pneumo- gastric, and nth Spinal Accessory,—all of which Exit by the Jugular Foramen, or Foramen Lacerum Posterius. 9th NERVE,—Glossopharyngeal. Functions,—Motion, Sensation, Special Sense. (See ante, page 132.) Origin. A Gray nucleus in floor of 4th Vent, and medulla oblong, behind the olivary body. gth Nerve Glosso- pharyngeal. Tympanic. (Jacobson’s N.) (Large Petrosal. Commumca-J Sma„ Petrosal ting Brs. to (Carotid Plexus. Distributing Brs. to Fenestra ovalis. Fenestra rotunda, '-Eustachian tube. 1 Carotid Branches. * Pharyngeal Brs.—to Pharyngeal Plexus. Muscular Brs.—to muscles of pharynx. Tonsillar Brs.—to Tonsillar Plexus. Lingual Brs.—to post. of tongue, giving taste thereto. 10th NERVE,—Pneumogastric, or Vagus. (See ante, page 132.) Functions, / Sensation, t Motion. Origin. A nucleus in the floor of 4th Vent- ricle below that of 9th nerve and groove between olivary and restiform bodies of medulla. 10th Nerve Vagus. Auricular {Arnold’s Nerve). Pharyngeal. Sup. Laryngeal{ ^r- tint. Br. Recurrent or Inf. Laryngeal * Cervical Cardiac. Thoracic Cardiac. Ant. Pulmonary. Post. Pulmonary. Gastric. Intestinal. Probably comes from the Spinal Accessory, and supplies all the laryngeal muscles except crico-thyroid. t Hepatic. Renal. Splenic. J >■ Terminal Brs. Gives sensation to external ear and larynx, motion to other parts, also vaso-motorial, inhibitory, trophic and secretory influences. A nerve of deglutition, phonation, respi- ration, circulation, and digestion. The Auriculo-Laryngo-Pharyngo-CEsophago- Tracheo-Pulmono-Cardio-Gastro-Hepatic-Intestinal-Renal-Splenic Nerve. nth NERVE,—Spinal Accessory. (See ante, page 132.) Function,—Motion. Origin. The floor of 4th Ventricle, and gray horn in cord, down to 6th Cervical N. Branch to Vagus, ganglion of root. nth Nerve Internal, anastomosing with Vagus, is probably the Recurrent Laryngeal Br. of the latter nerve. External, or Mnscular, to { Stemo-mastoid. t Trapeziur. A motor nerve to the muscles named, also probably to the laryngeal also.