THE INTERNAL EAR. 225 Rings and Phalanges,1—are very minute structures which connect the ciliae of the hair-cells together, and form the Lamina Reticularis. (See page 224.) Describe the Origin, Course and Distribution of the Auditory Nerve. The 8th Cranial Nerve, or Portio Mollis of the 7th pair, arises by two roots from the medulla oblongata, one from the floor of the 4th ventricle, the other from a nucleus in the processus e cerebello ad medullam. It w'inds around the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, and emerges at the lower border of the pons, in company with the facial nerve. The two nerves pass into the internal auditory canal, at the bottom of which the auditory nerve divides into two branches, the vestibular and cochlear nerves. The— Vestibular Nerve,—has a ganglionic swelling on it in the internal auditory canal, and then divides into 3 branches, which pass through the maculae cribosae, and are distributed to the utricle, saccule, and the ampullae of the semicircular canals, respectively. Cochlear Nerve,—gives off a small branch to the wall between the utricle and saccule, and then divides into numerous filaments which pass through the small canals into the modiolus, to form a plexus between the two plates of the lamina spiralis, from which filaments pass through the lower edge of the lamina to terminate in the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti. (See page 224.) Intumescentia Ganglioniformis Scarpce,—is the ganglionic swelling on the vestibular nerve in the internal auditory canal. Ganglion Spirale,—is a ganglion found on each filament of the cochlear nerve, just as it enters between the plates of the lamina spiralis. What Arteries supply the Labyrinth ? The— Internal Auditory Artery, hr. of the basilar (from the vertebral),—accom- panies the auditory nerve into the internal auditory canal, where it divides into vestibular and cochlear branches. Stylo-mastoid Artery, br. of the posterior auricular (from the external carotid), —sends some small branches to the internal ear. Describe the Internal Auditory Canal. It begins by a large orifice on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and runs outwards for inch, to end in a blind fossa, the floor of which is marked by 4 depressions, which are perforated by fine foramina, for the passage of the filaments of the auditory nerve to the labyrinth. One of these depressions is the— Tractus Spiralis Forminosus,—a spiral shaped depression containing a number of the above foramina, situated opposi the base of the cochlea. Maculce Cribosce,—are the other 3 depressions, o