THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. 215 Light-spot,—a triangular reflection, its apex at the tip of ^ g the malleus-handle, its base extending to the periphery of the membrane. It is due to the concavity of the v drumhead. Umbo,—or shadow, is the darker central portion. ShrapnelPs Membrane,—is the upper posterior part of the drumhead, where it is somewhat flaccid. Rivinian Foramen,—a minute opening supposed to exist in the portion called Shrapnell’s membrane. In what direction is the Membrana Tympani placed ? Obliquely inwards and forwards, almost forming a continuation of the posterior wall of the external auditory canal. Describe the Structure of the Membrana Tympani. It is composed of 3 layers, as follows:— External, or Dermoid Layer,—continuous with the integument lining the external auditory canal. Middle Layer, or Lamina Propria,—formed of outer radiating fibres, and inner circular ones. Between these two sets of fibres are situated the short process and handle of the malleus. Internal or Mucous Layer,—is continuous with the mucous lining of the tympanum. Tendinous Ring [At, Fig. 106),—surrounds the margin of the membrane, being received into the sulcus tympanicus. Its anterior and posterior ends are shown by v and h in Fig. 106. What Structures are presented by its Internal Surface ? A fibrous fold descends from the upper portion of the marginal ring, for a short distance along the malleus-handle, forming the— Anterior and Posterior Pouches,—one on each side of the malleus-handle, opening downwards. Tendinous Bands,—4 or 5,—converge from the posterior margin to the middle of the malleus-handle. What Arteries Supply the Membrana Tympani ? The— Deep Auricular, branch of the internal maxillary,—supplies the external layer, and forms with the Tympanic Branches a capillary plexus in the middle layer, (von Trolsch, Roosa, etc.) Tympanic, branches of the internal maxillary and internal carotid arteries,— supply the internal layer, and anastomose on the membrana tympani with the— *■ Vidian and Stylo-mastoid,—branches respectively of the internal maxillary and posterior auricular branches of the external carotid.