bodies. Fig. 31. on the head of the rib to the inter- the head of the rib to the inter- 58 ANATOMY. Capsularp from the edge of the glenoid cavity and the eminentia articularis to the neck of the inferior maxillary condyle. ATerves are derived from the auriculo-temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary. Describe the Costo-vertebral Articulations. They are each a double ar- throdia between the head of the rib and the bodies of 2 adjacent vertebras, except in the 1st, 10th, nth, and 12th ribs, which are each a single arthrodia, as they articulate with but 1 vertebra each. Their ligaments are 3, viz.— Anterior Costo-vertebral,2 or Stellate Ligament, consists of 3 bundles, which fasten the anterior part of vertebral disk and the 2 adjacent Inter-articular Costo-vertebral, in the interior of the joint, from the crest vertebral disk; on each side there is a separate synovial membrane. Capsular, surrounding the articular surfaces. Describe the Costo-transverse Articulations. They are 10 arthrodial articu- lations between the tubercles of the first 10 ribs and the transverse processes of the vertebrae next below. Their ligaments are 3, viz.—Anterior, Middle, and Posterior Costo-transverse. Describe the Costo-sternal Articulations. One a synarthrodial, 6 are ar- throdial articulations, between the costal cartilages and the margin of the sternum. The first has no synovial membrane, the second only has an inter- articular fibro-cartilage. Each has 3 ligaments,—the Anterior and Posterior Costo-sternal, and a Capsular. The Costo-xiphoid Ligament connects the xiphoid appendix to the cartilage of the 6th or 7th rib. How are the Costal Cartilages connected with the ribs and with each other ? With the ribs by a depression on the end of each rib, strengthened by the blending together of the periosteum and the perichondrium. The carti- lages of the lower ribs, sometimes from the 5th to the loth inclusive, articu- late with each other by their borders and for each a capsular and an intercostal ligament, with 3 synovial membranes for the 3 articulations between the 6th and the 9th cartilages. What are the Ligaments of the Sternum ? An anterior sternal and a posterior sternal ligament, with a layer of cartilage between the manubrium and the gladiolus.