ANATOMY. 118 posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, which collect the blood from the deep parts of the foot and leg, and unite in the— Popliteal, which becomes the Femoral, and it the External Iliac in the same manner as the respectively-named arteries. The superficial veins of the lower extremity are the— Internal or Long Saphenotis, on the inside of the leg and thigh, enters the femoral at the saphenous opening \)/z inch below Poupart’s ligament. In its course it receives the following:— Cutaneous Branches. Superficial Circumflex Iliac. Superficial Epigastric. Pudic. Communicating Branches. External or Short Saphenous, formed by branches from the dorsum and outer side of the foot, it ascends behind the outer malleolus, up the middle of the back of the leg, and empties into the popliteal vein. Describe the Internal Iliac Vein.10 It is formed by the venae comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery, except the umbilical. It terminates with the external iliac, at the sacro-iliac articulation, to form the common iliac vein. It receives the following veins :— Gluteal. Internal Pudic. Hemorrhoidal and Vesico- Uterine and Vagi- Sciatic. Obturator. prostatic, in the male. nal Plexuses, in . the female. Describe the Common Iliac Veins.11 They are each formed by the union of the two iliac veins as above described, and unite between the 4th and 5th lumbar vertebrae to form the inferior vena cava, the right common iliac being the shortest of the two. Each receives the Ilio-lumbar, sometimes the Lateral Sacral, and the left one in addition the Middle Sacral Vein, which sometimes ♦ ends in the vena cava. Describe the Inferior Vena Cava.8 It extends from the junction of the two common iliac veins, passing along the front of the spine, through the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, to its termination in the right auricle of the heart. It receives the following veins:— Lumbar}'2 Pena IP Phrenic. Right Spermatic.13 Supra-renal. Hepatic P Describe the Portal System. The portal system is formed by the Superior and Inferior Mesenteric, Splenic, and Gastric Veins, which collect the blood from the digestive viscera, and by their union behind the head of the pan- creas form the Portal Vein, which enters the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into 2 branches, and these again subdivide, ramifying through- out that organ, therein receiving blood also from the branches of the hepatic artery. Its contents enter the inferior vena cava by the hepatic vein. The portal vein is about 4 inches long, receives the Gastric and Cystic Veins, and is