187 THE VULVA. FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. THE VULVA. Enumerate the Organs comprised in the Vulva. They are the Mons * Veneris, the Labia Majora, Labia Minora, Clitoris, Meatus Urinarius, and the Orifice of the Vagina. Describe the Labia Majora. They are two prominent folds formed of skin, mucous membrane, areolar and dartoid tissues;—are joined together at the mons veneris, forming the Anterior Commissure, and also in front of the perineum, where they form the Posterior Commissure. What are the Labia Minora ? The Labia Minora or Nymphre are two folds of mucous membrane, lost posteriorly in the labia majora, but anteriorly they embrace the clitoris, forming the Prepuce of that organ. Describe the other Parts comprised in the Vulva. The— Mons Veneris,—is the eminence in front of the pubes. It is formed of adv pose tissue, and at puberty becomes covered with hair. Clitoris,4—is situated beneath the anterior Fig. 93. commissure, its Gians only appearing as a small rounded tubercle between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is a diminutive penis in all but the urethra, hav- ing a body, two crura, a glans, prepuce, suspensory ligament and muscles, the erec- tores clitoridis. Bulbi Vestibulip—are two oblong masses extending from the clitoris along the sides of the vestibule, and consisting of a venous plexus surrounded by a fibrous membrane. Pars Intermedia,—is a small venous plexus situated between the glans clito- ridis and the bulbi vestibuli. Vestibule,—is a triangular depression in front of the vaginal orifice, bounded laterally by the labia minora. Meatus Urinarius,1—situated in the vestibule, about an inch below the cli- toris, and close to the vaginal orifice. Orifice of the Vagina,2—is surrounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle, and in the virgin is sometimes partly closed by the hymen. Hymen,—a fold of mucous membrane situated across the lower part of the vaginal orifice, of various shapes, but usually semilunar, the concavity upwards. It is frequently absent in virgins, and after sexual intercourse its rupture and cicatrization give rise to small eminences along the margin of the vaginal orifice, named the Carunculce Myrtiformes.