220 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Fig. 108. Membranous Labyrinth, comprises the Utricle. Membranous Semicircular Canaly Sacctlle. [ Membranous Cochlea. Auditory Nerve,—the 8th cranial nerve, or the Portio Mollis of the 7th. Organ of Corti,—the terminal auditory apparatus. Internal Auditory Canal,—by which the auditory nerve enters. Describe the general arrangement of the Internal Ear. It lies im ternal to the tympanum, within the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and consists of a series of osseous chambers, the Osseous Labyrinth, containing a fluid, the Perilymph, or Liquor Cotunnii, in which lies a membranous repro- duction of the chambers, the Membranous Labyrinth, which also contains a fluid, the Endolymph, or LAquor Scarpa. Upon the membranous labyrinth are distributed the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, which being sus- pended between two fluids, are not only protected from injury, but enabled to perceive the most delicate vibrations which may be communicated to the fluids surrounding them. Describe the Vestibule. It is the common cavity of communication between the osseous parts of the internal ear, and measures in vertical diameter about | inch, laterally about inch. It communicates in front with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea; and behind (by five openings) with the semicircular canals. It presents the following points, viz.:—the—• Fenestra Ovalis,—on its outer wall, closed by the base of the stapes and its annular ligament. Fovea Hemispherical—a small circular depression on the inner wall, for the saccule. Macula Cricosa,—are groups of very minute orifices on the inner wall, ad- mitting the nerve filaments. Crista, or Pyramidal Eminence,—a vertical ridge on the inner wall, bounding the fovea posteriorly. Aqueductus Vestibulif—opens behind the crista, ending on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It contains a small blind canal opening by two arms, one into the utricle, the other into the saccule ; also a small vein. Fovea Semi-ellipticap—a small oval depression on the roof, above and be-