THE VEINS. 115 Arteria Princeps Cervicis, br. of occipital, from the external carotid, with the Vertebral, br. of subclavian, and the Profunda Cervieisy br. of the superior intercostal, from the subclavian. What is the Longest Anastomosis in the Body ? That between the subclavian and the external iliac by the anastomosis of the Superior Epigastric, br. of the internal mammary, witli the Deep Epigastric, br. of the external iliac. [The circle of Willis has been described on page 106; the palmar and plantar arches on pages 108 and 113 respectively; and the anastomosis on the mem- brana tympani on page 105.] THE VEINS. What are the Veins ? Vessels carrying blood towards the heart. Their walls are composed of 3 coats, an internal, serous; a middle, muscular; and an external, fibrous. They all carry carbonized or venous blood, except the pulmonary veins, which bring oxygenated blood to the left side of the heart. The deep veins accompany the arteries, generally in the same sheath, and are given the same names. The secondary arteries, as the radial, ulnar, brachial, etc., have each two veins, called Vence Comites. The superficial veins are usually unaccompanied by arteries, and lie, as a rule, between the layers of the superficial fascia, terminating in the deep veins. Many veins are so irreg- ular in their origin that they cannot be accurately described; they all anasto- mose with each other much more freely than do the arteries. What are Sinuses ? They are venous channels, differing from veins in structure, but answering the same purpose. Those of the cranium are formed by the separation of the layers of the dura mater. How are the Veins divided? Into the Pulmonary, Systemic, and Portal Systems; the latter being an appendage of the systemic, its capillaries rami- fying in the liver. What Veins have no Valves ? The venae cavae, hepatic, portal, renal, uterine, ovarian, cerebral, spinal, pulmonary, umbilical, and the very small veins. Name the principal (1.) Exterior veins. Facial. Temporal. Internal Maxillary. Temporo-maxillary. Posterior Auricular. Occipital. Veins of the Head and Neck. They are the— (2.) Veins of the diploe and cranium. Veins of the Diploe. Cerebral and Cerebellar. Superior Longitudinal Sinus. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus. Straight Sinus. Circular Sinus. Transverse Sinus. Cavernous Sinus. Occipital Sinus. Superior Petrosal Sinus Inferior Petrosal Sinus. Lateral Sinus•