VISCERAL ANATOMY. 224 Fig. 112. the cochlea. or Labium \Testibulare, a lower, or Labium Tympanicum, with a furrow between them, called the Sulcus Spiralis Internus. Membrane of Reissner,4—extends from the edge of the lamina spiralis to the outer cochlear wall, forming the vestibular wall of the membranous cochlea. Its outer insertion is the Angulus Vestibularis. ALembrana Basilaris,z—is the tympanic wall of the membranous cochlea, extending from the labium tympanicum of the lamina spiralis to the outer cochlear wall, where its insertion is called the Ligamentum Spiralef or Muscle of Todd and Bowman. On it rests the Organ of Corti f—cov- ered by the — Membrana Tectoria,X1—extends parallel to the membrana basilaris from the labium vestibulare to the outer cochlear wall, where, according to some authorities, it is inserted, according to others it is free and rests directly on the organ of Corti, perhaps to act as a damper to its vibrations. Describe the Organ of Corti. It is a peculiar arrangement of cartilagi- nous rods and epithelial hair cells, which is supposed to constitute the essential organ of hearing.9 It lies on the membrana basilaris 3 and is covered by the membrana tectoria.11 The— Rods of Corti,—are arranged in two rows, resting, by their pedestals, on the membrana basilaris, and uniting with each other by their heads, so as to form an arched tunnel all along the membrane. Number of rods in inner row about 6,ooo, in outer row 4,500. Average diameter of the rods, from ■j'j'jy'oTy to ■j'srrinj inch. Headplates,—are attached to the heads of the inner rods, for the reception of the rods of the opposite row. Lamina Reticularis,1—a perforated delicate membrane which extends from Fig. 113. the articulations of 1 the rods outwards to the external wall of Auditory Cells,"1—are epithelial structures covering the inner surfaces of the walls and the floor of the membranous cochlea. Those which cover the inner rods by a single row number about 3,300, are nu- cleated, covered with tufts of cilia, and called the Lnner Hair-cells. On the outer rods are 3 or 4 rows of similar cells, numbering about 18,000, and named the Outer Hair-cells.