184 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Tunica Vaginalis, the Serous Covering,—having a visceral layer (tunica vaginalis propria) and a parietal layer (tunica vaginalis reflexa). It was originally derived from the peritoneum, and the upper part being obliterated, it remained a closed sac. (See 6 Fig. 91.) Ttmica Albuginea, the Fibrous Covering,— formed of white fibrous tissue, and forming an incomplete vertical septum within the gland, the Corpus Highmorianum or Medi- astinum Testis,5 from which fibrous bands (trabeculae) cross the gland, dividing its inte- rior into spaces for the lobules of the organ. Tunica Vasculosa, the Pia Mater Testis,—is the vascular tunic, lying beneath the tunica albuginea, and giving off numerous pro- cesses between the lobules. Name the Coverings of the Testicle. From without inwards they are 6 in number, as follows, the— (1) Skin,—of the scrotum, closely adherent to the dartos. (2) Dartos,—or superficial fascia. (3) External Spermatic Fascia, Intercolumnar Fascia,—derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring. (4) Cremasteric Fascia,—derived from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle. [Called also the Cremaster Muscle.] (5) Internal Spermatic Fascia, or Fascia Propria,—the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia. (6) Tunica Vaginalisp—originally a process of peritoneum. [Shown by dots in Fig. 91.] Describe the Structure of the Testicle. The glandular structure is composed of small, convoluted tubes, the Tubuli Seminiferi,3 (Fig. 92), which are collected into Lobtiles, about 300 in number, from which straight ducts, the Vasa Rectap enter the mediastinum and form an ascending plexus of anastomosing tubes, the Rete Testisp which gives off some 12 to 20 ducts, the Vasa Ejferentia; 6 these perforate the tunica albuginea of the testis, and form a number of conical masses, the Coni Vasculosi,7 which together con- stitute the Globus Major 7 of the Epididymis.8 What is the Epididymis ? 8 It is an appendix to the testicle, lying along its posterior border, and consists of a single duct about 20 feet in length when unraveled, but which is wound upon itself so as to occupy a very small space. The— Fig. 91. 4 X