THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 1*31 Cortical Substance,—composed of columnar and rounded cells, held together in layers by a fibrous stroma. Medullary Substance—is darker than the cortical portion, and pulpy. Consists of cells in groups, supported by a delicate stroma, and believed by some anatomists to be prolonged into nerve fibres. What are their Relations ? Their bases rest on the upper front parts of the kidneys, their posterior surfaces on the crura of the diaphragm, about the level of the ioth dorsal vertebra. The— Anterior Surface,—of the right capsule is covered by the liver; that of the left one by the spleen and pancreas. Superior Surface,—of each is in relation internally with the great splanchnic nerve and semilunar ganglion. Name their Vessels and Nerves. The Lymphatics of these bodies open into the lumbar glands, but are very imperfectly known. Their— Arteries,—are the Supra-renal Branches of the aorta, renal, and inferior phrenic arteries, forming a dense capillary plexus in the cortical portion of the organ. Veins,—of each open into a single trunk, the Supra-re7ial Vein, which on the right side of the body empties into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the left renal vein. Nerves,—are chiefly derived from the solar and renal plexuses, with some filaments from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, forming a compli- cated network in the medullary substance of the organ, and having numerous small ganglia developed upon them. THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. What is the Abdomen ? An oval cavity, situated between the thorax above and the pelvis below, invested by peritoneum internally, and containing the— Stomach. Pancreas. Kidneys and Ureters. Supra-renal Capsules. Bladder (when distended.) Intestines. Liver. Gall-bladder. Spleen. Abdominal Aorta. Inferior Vena Cava. Receptaculum Chyli. Thoracic Duct. Uterus (during pregnancy.) Solar Plexus, etc. Name the Boundaries of the Abdomen. Above, it is bounded by the diaphragm;—below, by the brim of the pelvis;—posteriorly, by the vertebral column, and the fasciae covering the psose and quadrati lumborum muscles;— anteriorly and laterally, by the transversalis fascia, the lower ribs, and the venter of the ilium. K