THE URETHRAL GLANDS. 181 Describe the Structure of the Urethra. It has 3 coats, a mucous, a muscular, and an erectile. The— Mucous Coat,—is continuous with that of the whole urinary tract and the ducts of the glands opening therein. Its epithelium is columnar, except in the fossa navicularis, where it is squamous. Muscular Coat,—consists of a layer of longitudinal fibres of the unstriped variety. [For the voluntary muscles of the urethra, see the Compressor Urethrae and Accelerator Urinae, page 84.] Erectile Coat,—is the corpus spongiosum of the penis, and a thin, layer con- tinued therefrom around the membranous and prostatic portions. The Female Urethra. Enumerate the Characteristics of the Female Urethra. It is about \]/2 inch long, imbedded in the anterior wall of the vagina, perforating the triangular ligament, and surrounded by the fibres of a compressor urethrae muscle. Its diameter is about inch, but it is capable of considerable dilatation, being surrounded by softer structures than those around the male urethra. THE MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. THE URETHRAL GLANDS. Where is the Prostate Gland ? It encircles the neck of the male bladder, its apex touching the deep perineal fascia, its under surface resting on the rectum. It is perforated by the urethra and the common seminal ducts, and its ducts open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. State its Dimensions and Characteristics. It measures about \ V2 inch by 1 inch by 3^ inch, weighs about ^ oz., resembles a horse-chestnut in size and shape, and consist^of three lobes, two being lateral and of equal size, the third or middle lobe being a small prominence situated in the notch between the lateral lobes. Describe its Structure. The prostate gland is composed of glandular substance and muscular tissue, inclosed in a fibrous capsule. How is it Held in Position ? By the pubo prostatic ligaments of the bladder, the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and by the anterior portion of the levator-ani muscle. Where are Cowper’s Glands ? They are situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, one on each side of the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb, and inclosed by the transverse fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle.