MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 69 Rectus Externus, by 2 heads, the upper from the outer margin of the optic foramen, the lower from the ligament of Zinn and a bony process at lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure,—into the sclerotic coat. Action, to rotate the eyeball outwards. Nerve, 6th cranial, or abducens. Between the 2 heads of the external rectus pass the 3d, nasal branch of the 5th, and the 6th cranial nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Obliquus Superior, from about a line above the inner margin of the optic foramen, its tendon passing through a “ pulley ” near the internal angular 'process of the frontal bone and thence beneath the rectus superior,—into the sclerotic coat at right angles to the insertion of the rectus superior. Action, to rotate the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis. Nerve, 4th cranial, or patheticus. Obliquus Inferior, from the orbital plate of the superior maxillary,—into the sclerotic coat below the insertion of the external rectus and at right angles thereto. Action, to rotate the eye on its antero-posterior axis. Nerve, 3d cranial. Pyramidalis Nasi,* from the occipito-frontalis,—into the compressor naris. Action, to depress the eyebrow. Nerve, facial. Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi,* from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone,—into the cartilage of the ala of the nose and into the upper lip. Action, to elevate the upper lip, and dilate the nostril. 4 Nerve, facial. Dilator Naris Anterior, from the cartilage of the ala,—into the border of its integument. Action, to dilate the nostril. Nerve, facial. * Dilator Naris Posterior, from the nasal notch of the superior maxillary and the sesamoid cartilages,—into the in- tegument at the margin of the nostril. Action, to dilate the nostril. Nerve, facial. Compressor Naris,^ from the superior maxillary above the incisive fossa,— into the fibro-cartilage of the nose, being continuous with its fellow and the pyramidalis nasi aponeurosis. Ac- tion, to dilate the nostril. Nerve, facial. Compressor Narium Minor, from the alar cartilage,—into the skin at the end of the nose. Action, to ddate the nostril. Nerve, facial. *