191 THE UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. They each measure about I'fi inch by ^ by and are invested by perito- neum, except posteriorly. Describe the Structure of the Ovaries. They are composed of a vas- cular stroma containing the Graafian Vesicles or Ovisacs, in various stages of development, and are surrounded by a dense fibrous coat, the Tunica Albu- ginea. Describe the Graafian Vesicles. They are the ovisacs containing the human ova, are very numerous (about 70,000 in each ovary), vary in diameter from to 3J3 inch, but after puberty a few are found of from to | inch or more. Each vesicle presents an— External Coat,—of fibro-vascular structure. Ovi-capsule,—or internal coat. Membrana Granulosa,—a layer of nucleated cells, which at one point are heaped up around the ovum in a mature vesicle, forming the Discus Pro- ligerus. Fluid,—of transparent, albuminous character, containing the ovum in imma- ture vesicles. What is the Ovum ? It is a spherical mass of protoplasm, about inch in diameter when fully developed. It presents a— Vitelline Me?nbrane,—also called the Zona Pellucida,—a colorless envelope, in which is contained the— Vilellus or Yelk,—composed of granules in a fluid substance, one of which is called the— Germinal Vesicle,—which contains a smaller body named the Germinal Spot, measuring about the yuq-q of an inch in diameter. What is the Corpus Luteum ? It is a puckered yellow spot in the sub- stance of the ovary, produced as a result of the rupture of a Graafian vesicle and the discharge of an ovum, probably by the fatty degeneration of the ex- travasated blood. The— True Corpus Luteum,—is that of pregnancy, and may increase in size, not disappearing until full term. False Corpus Luteu??i,—occurs when impregnation has not taken place, and is absorbed in about three months. What is the Pampiniform Plexus ? A venous plexus near the ovary, formed by the veins of that organ. Enumerate the Arteries and Nerves of the Ovaries. Their Arteries,—are the Ovarian (or Spermatic), from the aorta, which also supply the Fallopian tubes, anastomosing with the uterine arteries. Nerves,—are derived from the Spermatic plexus.