VISCERAL ANATOMY. 192 What is the Parovarium ? The Parovarium, or Organ of Rosenmilller, is a group of tubules, situated in the broad ligament, between the ovary and the Fallopian tube, and converging to a large duct, the Duct of Gcertner, which ramifies in the broad ligament, and descends along the side of the uterus. It is thought to be a remnant of the Wolffian Body of foetal life. (See “Reproduction,” in Compend of Physiology.) THE MAMMAE. Describe the Mammae. The breasts are two hemispherical eminences, ^ situated one on each latero-anterior aspect of Fig.05. . r the chest, extending from the sternum to the axilla, and from the 3d rib to the 7th. Each breast contains the Mammary Gland and is surmounted by the Nipple, around the base of which is a zone of colored cutaneous tissue, the Areola, pink in virgins, darker in women who have borne children. In the male the mammae are rudimentary organs, but capable of development under special circumstances. Describe the Structure of the Mam- mary Gland. It is a compound conglomer- ate gland, composed of 15 or 20 lobes and their ducts,1 with a packing of areolar and adipose tissue, and enveloped by a fibrous capsule which forms septa between the lobes. Each lobe is made up of lobules,2 and these again are formed by the aggregation of the Acini or terminal vesicles, in which the milk is secreted. The — Tubuli Lactiferi or Tubuli Galactophorif—are the excretory ducts of the lobes, one for each. They are formed by the junction of the ducts from each lobule, and converge towards the areola, beneath which they form Ampulla or dilatations, and thence, piercing the nipple, open on its sum- mit by separate orifices. What is the Circulus Venosus ? An anastomotic venous circle around <he base of the nipple, from which larger veins run outwards and terminate in the axillary and internal mammary veins. Name the Arteries of the Mammae. They are derived from the Tho- racic Branches of the axillary, the Intercostals, and the Internal Mammary arteries.