43 ANATOMY. carpus (5), and the phalanges (14). Total, Fig. 25. Describe the Radius. The radius lies externally to the ulna when the fore arm is in supination ; it is prismatic in form with the base below where it articulates with the carpus. The bone is curved outwards and is shorter than the ulna, by the length of the olecranon. It presents the following points from above downwards, viz.— Ileadk cylindrical and cup-shaped, articulating with the radial head of the humerus, and the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and playing within the orbicular ligament. Neck/ the constricted part below the head. Tuberosity,™ rough behind for the insertion of the biceps, and smooth in front where it is covered by a bursa. Shaft, j prismoid in form, presents a sharp border internally for the attach- ment of the interosseous membrane; the Nutrient Foramen is on its an- terior surface. It gives attachment to 8 of the 12 muscles of the fore-arm. Sigmoid Cavity, at the internal side of the carpal end, is shallow, and artic- ulates with the head of the ulna. Articular Surf ace,o is divided by a ridge into 2 facets for articulation with the semilunar and scaphoid bones of the carpus. Styloid Process,P externally, gives attachment by its apex to the external lateral ligament, and by its base to the supinator longus muscle. Grooves, on the posterior and external surfaces of the lower extremity, for the tendons of the 8 extensor muscles of the thumb, and those of the radial side of the wrist, and fingers. THE HAND. How are the Bones of the Hand divided ? Into the carpus (8), the meta- 27 bones. Name the Bones of the Carpus. They are placed in 2 rows, one row in front of the other, with 4 bones in each row, as follows, —the left hand being in supination, naming from without inwards, viz.— 1st, or Proximal Row,—Scaphoid,S Semi- lunar,-£ Cuneiform,C Pisiform. 2d, or Distal Row,—Trapezium, ^ Trape- zoid,^ Os-magnum,^" Unciform. ^ State the number of Articulations in the Carpus. 34, as follows,—the number after each bone representing the number of its articulations, viz.—