231 THE MALE PERINEUM. with the suspensory ligament of the penis, and is held by some anatomists to prove that the deep layer aforesaid is not continuous in front with the dartos of the scrotum. This fascia was named from Dr. Buck, an American surgeon, who, in 1846, first insisted on the importance of this structure. It modifies the direction of urinary infiltration of the perineum, until perforated. What is the Triangular Ligament of the Urethra ? According to some authorities it is the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia; according to others it includes the posterior layer also. Prof. Pancoast includes in the term “ Triangular Ligament ” all three layers which are united at the central tendinous portion of the perineum, including, therefore, the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia. Name the Structures which lie between the Layers of the Deep Perineal Fascia. In this space, which by some writers is termed the Cavity of the Triangular Ligament, are the— Membranous Portion of the Urethra. Compressor Urethrce Muscle. Artery of the Bulb. Pudic Vessels and Nerve. ATerve of the Bulb. Cowpeds Glands and Ducts. Plexus of Veins. What Structures lie behind the Posterior Layer of the Deep Perineal Fascia ? They are the— Bladder. Rectum. Prostate Gland. Levator Anti Muscle. Enumerate the Structures situated between the Anterior Layer of the Deep Perineal Fascia and the Deep Layer of the Superficial Perineal Fascia. They are as follows, the— Enumerate the Structures which are divided in the Lateral Opera- tion of Lithotomy. If the knife is inserted 1 inch above the verge of the anus, and carried to a point inch below that orifice, and about half-way outwards to the tuber ischii (Gross), it will divide the Shin and Superficial Fascia (ist Layer). Inferior Hemorrhoidal Vessels and Nerves. Deep Layer of the Superficial Fascia. Superficial Perineal Vessels and Nerves. Accelerator Urimz Muscle 1 (posterior fibres). Transversus Perinei Muscle 3 and Artery. Ischio-rectal, or Anal Fascia. Crura of the Penis. Corpus Spongiosum. Bulb of the Urethra. Erector Penis Muscle.1 Transversus Perinei Muscle.3 Transversus Perinei Artery. Superficial Perineal Vessels. Accelerator Urince Muscled