ANATOMY. 128 Olivary Body, behind the pyramid, from which it is separated by the groove of the hypoglossal nerve. It contains a capsule of gray matter in its cen- tre, the Corpus Denlatum. Lateral Tract, continuous with the lateral column of the spinal cord, lies behind the olivary body and in front of the restiform. Restiform Body, the posterior lateral portion of the medulla, also called the Fasciculus Cuneatus. Posterior Pyramid, or Fascicuhis Gracilis, the most posterior portion, is formed by the posterior median column of the spinal cord. It diverges from its fellow at the apex of the 4th ventricle and forms the lateral boundary of the Calamus Scriptorius. What is the Cerebellum ? It is that portion of the brain situated in the Inferior occipital fossae, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. It is an oblong flattened ganglion, divided into two lateral hemispheres, and a central portion, the Vermiform Process. Name the Fissures of the Cerebellum. They are 3 in number,—2 ver- tical and 1 horizontal, viz.— Jncisura Cerebelli Anterior. Great Horizontal Fissure, from which Incisura Cerebelli Posterior. secondary fissures originate. Name the Points on the surfaces of the Cerebellum. They comprise 15 lobes, 2 commissures, and 3 projections, as follows;— On the upper surface of each hemisphere,— Anterior or Square Lobe. Posterior or Semilunar Lobe. On the under surface of each hemisphere, from before backwards,— Flocculus, Sub-peduncular Lobe, or Pneumogastric Lobide. Amygdala Lobe, or Tonsil, projects into the 4th ventricle. Digastric Lobe. Slender L,obe. Posterior Lnferior Lobe. On the vermiform process are the— Pyramid. \ superiorly. Uvula. >- inferiorly. Commissura Brevis. J The Vallecula, or valley of the cerebellum, is the central depression on its under surface between the two lateral hemispheres. Lobulus Centralis. Monticulus Cerebelli. Commissura Simplex. Name the Peduncles of the Cerebellum, They are 3 in number on each side, and from below upwards are as follows :— Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam, to the medulla oblongata. Processus e Cerebello ad Pontem, connect the hemispheres. Processus e Cerebello ad Testes, to the cerebrum. Describe the Gray Matter of the Cerebellum. It occupies the surface of