Fig. 23. rtNATOMY. 46 Lesser Tcberosityp on the inner side of the bone, gives insertion to the subscapularis muscle. Bicipital Groove,f lies vertically between the tuberosities for the upper third of the bone, and lodges the tendon of the long head of the biceps flexor cubiti. Into its inner or posterior lip h are inserted the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, while its outer or anterior lip^" receives the in- sertion of the tendon of the pectoralis major, which covers the groove. Surgical ATeck, is situated immediately below the tuberosi- ties, and is a slight constriction in the upper part of the shaft. Shaft,a is cylindrical above, prismatic and flattened below. Rough Surface,i for the insertion of the deltoid muscle, about the middle of the external surface of the shaft. Musculo-spiral Groove, lodging the musculo-spiral nerve, and the superior profunda artery, is situated on the pos- terior surface of the shaft, separating the origins of the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle. Orificej of the nutrient canal, about the middle of the shaft. Condyloid Ridges °P internal and external, arising from the respective condyles, extending upwards along the shaft. External Condyle,™ gives attachment to the external lateral ligament and the extensor and supinator group of muscles. Internal Condyle,« lower and more prominent than the other, gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament and the flexor and pronator group of muscles of the fore-arm. Radial Headfi forms the external part of the inferior articular surface; for articulation with the radius. Trochlear Surface,l articulates with the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; is a deep depression between two borders, and extends from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone. Coronoid Fossa,<1 in front of the trochlea, receives the coronoid process of the ulna when the fore-arm is flexed. Olecranon Fossa, behind the trochlea, receives the tip of the olecranon pro- cess, when the fore-arm is extended.