174 VISCERAL ANATOMY. THE PLEURA. What are the Pleurae ? Two delicate serous sacs, one surrounding each lung and reflected over the pericardium, the diaphragm, and the inner surface of the thorax. Where do the Pleurae meet ? For a short space behind the middle of the sternum, at the approximation of the anterior borders of the lungs. What Names are given to the parts of the Pleurae ? The— Pleura Pulmonalis, or Visceral Layer,—covers the lung, and invests that organ as far as its root. Pleura Coslalis, or Parietal Layer,—lines the inner surface of the parietes of the chest. Cavity of the Pleura,—is the space between the two layers. What is the Ligamentum Latum Pulmonis ? The Broad Ligament of the Lung is a triangular fold or reflection of pleura, which descends from the root of the lung posteriorly to the upper surface of the diaphragm. State the Differences between the Pleurae. The right sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher into the neck than the left. Enumerate the Parts in Relation with the Left Pleura. Its— Visceral Layer,—is in contact with the left lung. Parietal Layer,—is in relation with the vertebral column, the ribs, intercostal muscles and vessels, the sternum, the left sympathetic nerve, the diaphragm, the arched portion of the subclavian artery, and the origin of the left carotid, the left pneumogastric, phrenic and cardiac nerves, the trachea, oesophagus, aorta and the pericardium. What is the Mediastinum ? It is the space between the two pleurae in the median line of the thorax, extending from the sternum to the vertebral column, and containing all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. Enumerate the Contents of each of its Divisions. The—- Anterior Mediastinum, contains the— Origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid Muscles. Triangularis Sterni Muscle. Left Internal Mammary Vessels. Middle Mediastinum, contains the— Heart and Pericardium. Ascending Aorta. Superior Vena Cava. Posterior Mediastinum, contains the— Descending Aorta. Azygos Veins. Superior Intercostal Veins. CEsophagus. Thymus Gland. Lymphatics. Bifurcation of the Trachea. Pulmonary Arteries and Veins. Phrenic Nerves. Pneumogastric Nerves. Splanchnic Nerves. Thoracic Duct. Lymphatic Glands.