THE ARTICULATIONS. 5f THE ARTICULATIONS. Into what Classes are the Articulations divided? Into 3,—1. Synarthrolsis, immovable; 2. Amphiarthro'sis, Synchondrosis, or Symphysis, having limited motion; 3. Diarthro' sis, having free motion. How are the Synarthroses subdivided ? Into 3 divisions,—Sutura, by indentations; Schindylesis, by a plate of bone into a cleft in another; and Gompho'sis, by a conical process into a socket. The Sutura are again sub- divided into—S. Dentata, having tooth-like processes; S. Serrata, with ser- rated edges; S. Limbosa, having beveled margins and dentated processes; S. Squamosa, with thin beveled margins overlapping each other; S. Harmonia, contiguous rough surfaces opposed to each other. The first 3 are also named Sutura Vera (true sutures) having indented borders; the last 2 Sutura Notha (false sutures) being formed by rough surfaces. How are the Diarthroses divided? Into 4 divisions,—Arthrodia, gliding joint; Enarthrosis, ball-and-socket joint; Ginglymus, hinge-joint; and Diar- throsis Rotatorius, a ring surrounding a pivot. Give an Example of each of the above-named articulations. Synarthro' sis,—bones of cranium and face, except the lower jaw. Sutura Dentata,—the inter-parietal suture. Sutura Serrata,—the inter-frontal suture. Sutura Limbosa,—the fronto-parietal suture. Sutura Squamosa,—the tempora-parietal suture. Sutura Harmonia,—the intermaxillary symphysis. Schindy'lesis,—rostrum of sphenoid with the vomer. Gompho'sis,—the teeth in their alveoli. Amphiarthro'sis,—the bodies of the vertebrae, the sacro-iliac, and pubic sym- physes. Diarth ro'ses,— Arthrodia,—sterno-clavicular articulation. Enarthrosis,—hip-joint, shoulder-joint. Ginglymus,—elbow-joint, ankle-joint, knee-joint. Diarthrosis Rotatorius,—the superior radio-ulnar, and atlo-axoid articula- tions. Name the Varieties of motion in joints ? There are 7 varieties, viz.— flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation, circumduction, and gliding movement. What Structures enter into the formation of joints? There are 5, viz.— the articular lamella of bone, ligaments, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, and synovial membrane.