101 THE HEART. Columnce Carnece, muscular columns projecting from the surface of the ven- tricle, of which 3 or 4, called Columnce Papillares, give attachment to the chordae tendinse. Semilunar Valves, are 3 in number, and guard the orifice of the pulmonary artery, each about the middle of its free margin has a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, the Corpus Arantii, which more perfectly closes the orifice. Opening of the Pulmonary Artery, at the superior and internal angle of the ventricle, the Conus Arteriosus. It is circular in form, surrounded by a fibrous ring, and is guarded by the semilunar valves. Sinuses of Valsalva, are 3 pouches, one behind each valve, between it and the commencement of the pulmonary artery. Describe the Left Auricle. Its walls are about 1 y2 lines in thickness, its capacity rather less than 2 fluidounces, has an appendix auriculae, and receives the arterialized blood from the lungs. It presents the following in- ternally :— Openings of the Pjdmonary Veins, are 4 in number, sometimes 3, as the two left veins frequently end in a common opening. Left Auriculo-ventricular Opening, is smaller than the right one. Musculi Pectinati, on the inner surface of the appendix. Depression, corresponding to the fossa ovalis in the right auricle. Describe the Left Ventricle. It is longer, thicker, and more coni- cal than the right, projecting towards the posterior aspect. Its walls^ are the thickest of those in the heart, being twice as thick as those of the right ventricle. Its interior presents the following:— Aortic Opening, is small and cir- cular, placed in front and to the right of the auriculo-ven- tricular, a segment of the mitral valve being between them. It is surrounded by a fibrous ring, and guarded by semilunar valves. Mitral Valve,c consists of two unequal-sized segments, and is attached to the fibrous ring which surrounds the auriculo-ventricular opening. Its margins are connected with the ventricular walls by Chorda Tendinced and Musculi Papillares. 9* Fig. 53.