THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 137 spinal system by intervening cords, beginning in the ganglion of Ribes on the anterior communicating artery, and ending in the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx. Name the Ganglia of the Sympathetic in the Cranium and its vicinity. They are 9 in number, as follows :—■ Ganglion of Kibes, on the anterior communicating artery. Ganglion of Laumonier, on the internal carotid artery. Ciliary, or Ophthalmic Ganglion, in the orbital cavity. Spheno-palatine [Meckel's) Ganglion, in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Otic (Arnold's) Ganglion, under the foramen ovale. Submaxillary Ganglion, above the submaxillary gland. Ganglion of Cloquet, in the incisive fossa, on the naso-palatine nerve. Ganglion of Bidder, below the foramen spinosum, on the middle meningeal artery. Ganglion of Bochdalck, on a branch between the spheno-palatine ganglion and the anterior dental nerve at their junction. Describe the Ganglia connected with the 5th Cranial Nerve. There are 4 such, each having a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic root, viz.— Ciliary, or Ophthalmic Ganglion, is situated in the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle. Its sensory root is derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, its motor root from the 3d nerve, its sympathetic root from the cavernous plexus. Its branches are the short ciliary nerves, and are distributed to the ciliary muscle and the iris. Spheno-palatine, or Meckel's Ganglion, is a large ganglion situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its sensory root is derived from the superior maxillary, its motor root from the facial by the Vidian and large petrosal, its sympathetic root from the carotid plexus, by the carotid branch of the Vidian. Its branches are the— Ascending. Middle Palatine. Anterior Palatine. Superior Nasal. Pharyngeal, or Posterior Palatine. Naso-palatine. Pterygo-palatine. Otic Ganglion [Arnold's), is situated on the inferior maxillary nerve, imme- diately below the foramen ovale. Its sensory root is derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary; its motor root from the internal pterygoid branch of the same, also from the facial and glosso* pharyngeal by the small petrosal; its sympathetic root from the middle meningeal plexus. Its branches are distributed to the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles. Submaxillary Ganglion, is situated above the submaxillary gland. Its sen- sory root is derived from the gustatory branch of the inferior maxillary, 12*