230 VISCERAL ANATOMY. THE PERINEUM. What is the Perineum ? It is a triangular space containing the structures which close the pelvic outlet anterior to a line drawn between the tuberosities of the ischia. Posteriorly to this line the corresponding space is named the Ischio-rectal Fossa. The Perineum is bounded laterally by the rami of the pubes and ischia, anteriorly by the symphysis pubis, and posteriorly by the line above mentioned, which averages about 2^ inches in length. [ For the Muscles of the Perineum, see ante, p. 83.] THE MALE PERINEUM. What Fasciae are met with in the Perineum ? The— S2iperficial Layer of the Stiperficial Fascia,—is thick, loaded with fat, and continuous with the subcutaneous fascia of the thighs. Deep Layer of the Superficial Fascia,—is thin but strong, continuous in front with the dartos of the scrotum, (?), attached on each side to the rami of the pubes and ischium; posteriorly it joins the deep perineal fascia under the transversus perinei muscle. It sends inwards a vertical septum which is incomplete in front. [This fascia is called by Professor Pancoast the “ anterior leaflet of the triangular ligament.”] Anterior Layer of the Deep Perineal Fascia,—is triangular in shape, and extends from the pubic arch and the sub-pubic ligament, laterally to the rami of the pubes and ischia, and posteriorly to the central tendinous portion of the perineum, where it becomes blended with the deep layer of the superficial fascia. It embraces the anterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra. [Called by Professor Pancoast, the “ middle leaflet of the triangular ligament.”] Posterior Layer of the Deep Perineal Fascia,—has the same attachments as the anterior layer above described, but in its course it embraces the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is in connection with the apex of the prostate gland. [Called by Prof. Pancoast, the “ posterior leaflet of the triangular ligament.”] Obturator Fascia,—is the part of the pelvic fascia which covers the obturator internus muscle, and is continued on to the levator ani muscle as the Lschio- rectal or Anal fascia. Recto-vesical Fascia,—is the portion of the pelvic fascia which invests the internal surface of the levator ani muscle, and the prostate gland, bladder, rectum, and vesiculae seminales. What is Buck’s Fascia ? It is a continuation of the Deep Layer of the Superficial Fascia of the Perineum, extending forwards upon the penis, and investing that organ completely as far as the glans. It is continuous above