151 THE LARGE INTESTINE. Mucous Membrane,—is covered with columnar non-ciliated epithelium, and thrown into crescentic transverse folds, the Valvules Conniventes, or valves of Kirkring. It also presents numerous vascular projections or Villi, each formed of basement membrane, epithelium, a lacteal vessel, a capillary plexus, granular corpuscles, and longitudinal muscular fibres, and number- ing about four millions in the whole length of the intestine. Cellular Coat,—contains the vessels of the intestine, and connects the other two coats together. Muscular Coat,—consists of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres, the former being thinly distributed along the bowel, the latter form- ing a thick layer, but not making complete rings. Describe the Glands of the Small Intestine. The mucous membrane of the small intestine contains— Crypts of Lieberkiihn, or Simple Follicles,—are minute tubular depressions, found all over the intestine and also in the stomach. Brunner's Glands,—are small conglomerate glands, found only in the duo- denum and the first part of the jejunum, being most numerous near the pylorus. In structure they resemble the pancreas. Solitary Glands,—are lymphoid organs, situated throughout the intestine, though most numerous at the lower portion of the ileum. They are agmi- nated into some 20 or 30 oval patches, named—- Beyer’s Patches,—on the surface opposite to the mesenteric attachme its, some of which are as much as 4 inches in length. They are most numer- ous and largest in the ileum, and are most developed during digestion. THE LARGE INTESTINE. Describe the Large Intestine. It is about five feet long, of large calibre, sacculated, consists of the same coats as the small intestine, the mucous being smooth, and without villi, the muscular having its longitudinal fibres collected into 3 narrow bands, producing a pouching of the tube. It presents the fol- lowing parts and points, viz.— Oecum, or Caput Ccecum Colic—a dilated blind pouch behind the entrance of the small intestine.^ It is the beginning of the large intestine, lies in the right iliac fossa, and is two-thirds covered by peritoneum. Appendix Vermiformis, b—a blind prolongation about 3 to 6 inches long, narrow and worm-like, directed backwards and upwards from the lower part of the caecum, being retained by a fold of the peritoneum. Ileo-ccecal Valve, or Valve of Bauhin,—guards the entrance of the small intestine, being formed by two crescentic folds of the mucous and cellular coats and circular muscular fibres, each covered with villi on the side toward the ileum, but smooth on the caecal side.