100 ANATOMY. Describe the Heart. It is a hollow muscular organ, conoidal in shape, placed obliquely in the chest between the lungs, base upwards, apex towards the left and front, corresponding to the interspace between the 5th and 6th costal cartilages, one inch inside of and two inches below the left nipple. In the adult its size is about 5 inches by 3^ by 2^4, and from 8 to 12 oz. in weight. What are the Cavities of the Heart ? They are 4 in number, an auricle and a ventricle on each side of the heart, separated by a longitudinal muscular septum, and indicated on the external surface of the organ by grooves, named, from their contiguous cavities, as the Auriculo-ventrictilar Groove trans- versely, and the Inter- Ventricular Groove longitudinally. Describe the Right Auricle. It is larger than the left, can hold about 2 fluidounces, its walls being about 1 line in thickness. It receives the venous blood by the superior and inferior venae cavae and the coronary sinus, and presents interiorly the following points for examination: — Appendix Auricula, a conical pouch projecting from the auricle to the front and left, its margins being dentated. Openings of the superior and inferior venae cavae and the coronary sinus, the latter having a valve in two segments. Foramina Thebesii, several minute orifices, the mouths of veins from the substance of the heart. Tubercle of Lower, a very small projection on the right wall, supposed to influence the direction of the blood-current. Eustachian Valve, at the anterior margin of the inferior vena cava; large in> the foetus, to direct the blood to the foramen ovale. Fossa Ovalis, a depression 011 the inner wall, and the situation of the foramen ovale in the foetus. Annulus Ovalis, the oval margin of the fossa ovalis. Musculi Pectinati, muscular columns on the inner surface of the appendix and the inner wall of the auricle. Auriculo-ventricular Opening, communicates with the right ventricle, is oval, about an inch broad, surrounded by a fibrous ring, and is guarded by the tricuspid valve. Describe the Right Ventricle. Its form is conical, its cavity containing about 2 fluidounces, its apex above the apex of the heart, and it presents in- teriorly the following, viz.— Tricuspid Valve, consists of 3 triangular segments connected by their base* with the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and by their sides with each other, the largest being on the left side. Chorda Tendina, delicate tendinous cords which connect the margins and lower surfaces of the tricuspid valve with the columnse.