202 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Uvea, or Tapetum,—a layer of purple pigment-cells on the posterior surface of the iris, continuous with the pigment layer of the ciliary processes. Sphincter Pupillce,—a layer of circular muscular fibres around the pupillary margin, supplied by the 3d nerve. Dilator Pupillce,—radiating muscular fibres from the pupillary margin toward the ciliary border, supplied by fibres of the sympathetic, from the ciliary ganglion. [See p. 137.] Membrana Pupillaris,—a vascular membrane which covers the pupil in the foetus, disappearing about the eighth month,—occasionally permanent. It is nourished by the Hyaloid Artery, through the Canal of Stilling (de- scribed under the Vitreous Humor). Arteries,—are derived from the long and anterior Ciliary, forming the Cir- culus Major Iridis at the ciliary border, and the Circulus Arteriosus Iridis Minor near the pupillary margin. Veins,—empty into those of the ciliary processes and the anterior ciliary veins Sinus Circularis Iridis, Canal of Schletnm, or Canal of Fontana,—is a minute canal at the internal corneo-sclerotic junction, extending around the circumference of the attached border of the iris. It is lined by endo- thelium and encloses a venous plexus, receiving veins from the sclerotic and the ciliary plexus. It communicates with the chamber of the aqueous humor and with the anterior ciliary veins. Nerves of the Iris,—are derived from the 3d, 5th and the sympathetic, through the long and short ciliary nerves. The 3d supplies the circular fibres, the sympathetic the radiating ones, the 5th being nerves of common sensation. The Retina. What is the Retina ? It is the innermost or nervous tunic of the eye,— a delicate, grayish, transparent membrane, about fa of an inch thick at the fundus, jfa inch at the anterior margin. It is formed by a membranous ex- pansion of the optic nerve elements, and extends from the termination of that nerve nearly as far forwards as the ciliary processes, terminating in a jagged margin, the Ora Serrata, though its fibrous stroma is continued as the Pars Ciliaris Retince over the ciliary body. The Retina presents for examination the following points, viz., the— Macula Lutea, or Yellow Spot,—situated on the retina, exactly in the visual axis; is an elevated oval spot where vision is very acute, the retina being very thin and full of nerve elements closely packed together at the ex- pense of its connective tissue. No rods, no nerve-fibre layer here, but the cones and ganglion-cells are very numerous. Fovea Centralis,—a depression at the centre of the macula lutea, to fa inch in diameter, in which the sense of vision is most acute.