THE INTERNAL EAR. 219 The Eustachian Tube. What is the Eustachian Tube ? It is an osseo-cartilaginous canal, about l]/2 inches long, y1^ inch in diameter at tympanic end, inch at pharyngeal, which leads downwards and forwards from the tympanic cavity into the pharynx. Of its length two-thirds is cartilaginous, one-third osseous. Above its bony portion is the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, from which it is divided by an osseous lamina, the Septum Tubce. Its— Cartilaginous Portion,—consists of two plates of cartilage, their non-ap- proximated edges being connected by a membrane. Pharyngeal Orifice,—is trumpet-shaped, and situated in the posterior nasal space, just above the nasal floor. A/ucous Membrane,—-covered with the ciliated epithelium, and continuous with that of the pharynx and the tympanum. Describe the Muscles of the Eustachian Tube. They are the— Spheno-salpingo-staphylinus,—the abductor or dilator of the tube—is described as arising from the sphenoid bone and the cartilage of the tube, and being inserted into the convex border of the outer cartilage for its whole length. Nerve,—internal pterygoid. Levator Veli Palati,—arises from the temporal bone and the cartilage of the tube,—into the osseous tube, the cartilage, and the mucous membrane. Action, to enlarge the transverse diameter of the tube. Nerve, pneumo- gastric. Salpingo-pharyngeus,—a thin layer disposed along the median cartilaginous plate and the mucous membrane. Action, to fix the median cartilage. Called a fascia by some anatomists. What Arteries supply the Eustachian Tube ? The— Ascending Pharyngeal,—branch of the external carotid. Middle Aleningeaf—branch of the internal maxillary br. of the ext. carotid. Branch,—from the internal carotid artery. Name its Nerves. Besides those which supply the muscles of the tube (s«e above), it has branches from the— Superior Pharyngeal. Glosso-pharyngeal. The Internal Ear. Name the Parts comprised in the Internal Ear, {Vestibule. Semicircular Canals. Cochlea.