ANATOMY. 56 Fig. 29. atlas, and has 7 ligaments, viz.— Articular Lamella of bone differs from ordinary bone tissue in being more dense, containing no Haversian canals nor canaliculi, and having larger lacunae. Ligaments are bands of white fibrous tissue, except the ligamentum sub* flava and the ligamentum nuchae, which are both composed purely of yellow elastic tissue. Cartilage is temporary or permanent. The first forms the original frame- work of the skeleton, and becomes ossified. Permanent cartilage is not prone to ossification, and is divided into 3 varieties,—Articular, covering the ends of bones in joints; Costal, forming part of the skeleton ; Reticular, arranged in lamellae or plates to maintain the shape of certain parts. Fibro-cartilage is Lnterarticular (menisci), separating the bones of a joint; Connecting, binding bones together; Circumferential, deepening cavities; Stratiform, lining grooves. Synovial Membranes secrete the synovia, a viscid, glairy fluid, and resemble the serous membranes in structure. They are Articular, lubricating joints; Bursal, forming closed sacs (bursae); Vaginaensheathing tendons. Describe the Vertebral Articulations. They are formed by the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, and their articular processes, and are connected by the following ligaments, etc.—(See Fig. 31.) Intervertebral Fibro-cartilages, between the bodies of all true vertebrae, ex- cept the axis and atlas. Anterior Common Liga??ient} along fronts of the bodies. Posterior Common Ligament, along backs of the bodies. Ligamenta Subfava, connect the laminae of adjacent vertebrae. Capsular* surround the articular processes, and are lined by synovial mem- brane. % Supra-spinous and Inter-spinous, connect the spinous processes. Inter-transverse,3 connect the transverse processes. Describe the Occipito-atloid Articulation. It is a double arthrodia formed by the condyles of the occipital bone with the superior articular surfaces of the 2 Anterior Occipito-atloid,a from the an- terior margin of the foramen magnum to the anterior arch of the atlas. Posterior Occipito-atloid, from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is per- forated by the vertebral arteries and sub- occipital nerves.