ANATOMY. 62 with that of the wrist-joint through an opening in the triangular fibro-cartilagt which separates the head of the ulna from the wrist-joint, and acts as one of the ligaments of this articulation, which are 3, viz.— Anterior Radio-ulnar. Posterior Radio-ulnar. Triangular Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. Describe the Wrist-joint. It is chiefly an enarthrodial articulation, though incapable of rotation, and is formed by the lower end of the radius and the tri- angular fibro-cartilage, with the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones of the carpus. Its Arteries are the anterior and posterior carpal from both the radial and ulnar, the anterior and posterior interosseous and ascending branches from the deep palmar arch. * Its Nerves are derived from the ulnar; it is lined by a synovial membrane, and has 4 ligaments, viz.— External Lateral (radio-carpal). Anterior. Internal Lateral (ulno-carpal). Posterior. Describe the Carpal Articulations. They are in 3 sets, (1) between the bones of the first row, (2) between the bones of the second row, (3) between the 2 rows of bones. (1) The scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones are connected together by 2 Dorsal, 2 Palmar, and 2 Interosseous Ligaments. The pisiform bone has a separate capsular ligament and synovial membrane and 2 fasciculi connecting it with the unciform and the 5th metacarpal. (2) The 4 bones of the second row are connected together by j Dorsal, 3 Palmar, and j Interosseous Ligaments. (3) The 2 rows of bones are united by a Dorsal, a Palmar, and 2 Lateral Ligaments, the last named being continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. Describe the Carpo-metacarpal Articulations. That of the thumb with the trapezium is an enarthrodial joint, having a Capsular Ligament and a separate synovial membrane. The 4 inner metacarpal bones form 4 arthrodial joints with the adjacent carpal bones by 6 Dorsal, 8 Palmar, and 2 Interosseous Liga- ments, irregularly disposed. Describe the Synovial Membranes of the Wrist. They number 5, and are situated as follows, viz.— The First, or Membrana Sacciformis, between the head of the ulna, the sig- moid cavity of the radius, and the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage. The Second, between the lower end of the radius, the triangular fibro-carti- lage, and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones of the carpus. The Third, between all the carpal bones except the pisiform, and between the bases of the inner 4 metacarpal bones; but it extends only halfway into the 2 intervals between the 3 proximal bones of the carpus.