VISCERAL ANATOMY. 188 Fourchetu,—a small transverse fold just behind the posterior margin of the vaginal orifice. Fossa Navicularis,—the space between the fourchette and the posterior com- missure of the vulva. Glands of Bartholine,—one on each side of the vaginal orifice, their ducts opening on the inner sides of the labia minora. They are the analogues of Cowper’s glands in the male. THE VAGINA. Describe the Vagina. It is a curved canal extending from the vulva to the uterus, placed between the bladder and the rectum. Its length is about 4 inches along its anterior wall, an inch longer posteriorly, and its walls are usually in contact with each other. It is very dilatable, especially at its upper part. Describe its Structure. The vaginal wall consists of a muscular coat externally, a layer of erectile tissue, and a mucous lining covered with squa- mous epithelium, and furnished with mucous glands and follicles. The— Columns of the Vagina,—are two longitudinal raphes situated along its mucous surface, connected by numerous transverse ridges, or Rugce. What are the Relations of the Vagina ? They are—- Anteriorly,—the urethra and the base of the bladder. Posteriorly,—the anterior wall of the rectum, and the recto-uterine fold of peritoneum which forms Douglas’ cul-de-sac behind its upper fourth. Laterally,—are attached the broad ligaments of the uterus, the levatores ani muscles, and the recto-vesical fascia. Superiorly,—it is attached to the cervix uteri above the os, and higher on the posterior wall than anteriorly. THE UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Where is the Uterus situated ? In the pelvic cavity, between the bladder s and the rectum, and above the vagina. Describe the Uterus. It is a hollow, pear-shaped, muscular organ, meas- uring about 3 inches long, 2 inches broad, and 1 inch thick, flattened from before backwards, placed base upwards, and forming an angle with the vagina, which partially receives its cervix. The— Fundus,A—is broad, convex, having walls ^ inch thick, and is covered by peritoneum. Body,—is about 1^ inch long, walls )/2 inch thick, flat anteriorly, convex posteriorly, concave laterally, and joined to the bladder by its lower ante-