THE SUTURES AND FONTANELLES. 33 M THE SUTURES AND FONTANELLES. Name the Sutures of the skull. There are 17. At the Vertex of the skull are 5, the— Sagittal, or interparietal. 2 Coronal, or fronto-parietal. 2 Lambdoid, or occipito-parietal. At the Sides of the skull are 4, the— 2 Spheno-parietal. 2 Temporo-parietal. At the Base of the skull are 5, the— 2 Temporo-occipital. Basilar, in the central line of the base. 2 Temporo-sphenoidal. In the Mesial line, besides the sagittal and basilar, are 3, the— Spheno-ethmoidal. Spheno-frontal. Ethmo-frontal. Describe the Facial Sutures. The most important are the following, but the sutures of the face are very numerous. Zygomatic Suture, at the temporo-malar articulation. Transverse Suture, extending from one external angular process of the frontal bone across to the other, and connecting that bone with the malar, sphenoid, ethmoid, lachrymal, superior maxillary, and nasal bones. Symphysis of the Chin, the site of a foetal suture. How are the Sutures formed? By dentations of the external tables in- terdigitating with each other, the adjacent edges of the internal tables lying in unjoined proximity. The sutures are not formed until a long time after the formation of the skull, probably to permit of the marginal growth of the bones. What are the Fontanelles ? They are 6 membranous intervals in the in- fant’s skull, corresponding in situation with the angles of the two parietal bones. They are as follows, viz.—■ Anterior, at the junction of the sagittal and coronal intervals. Posterior, at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid intervals. lateral Fontanelles, 4, two at the anterior inferior angles, and two at the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones. Describe the Wormian Bones. They are supernumerary small pieces of bone, irregularly shaped, and developed by special centres in unclosed por- tions of the cranial sutures and fontanelles, being more frequent in the lamb- doid suture. They are also called “ossa triqueta” from their triangular form. Describe the Hyoid Bone. It is shaped like a horse-shoe, has no articu- lation with the skeleton, but supports the tongue. It consists of a Body, two greater, and two lesser Cornita or horns. On the body is a Crucial Ridge, with a Tubercle at the centre. It is developed by 5 centres,—one for the body and one lor each horn. Attached to it are 10 muscles, 3 ligaments, and I membrane, as follows, viz.— c