THE VEINS. 117 Vena Basis Vertebrarum, empty into the anterior longitudinal. Longitudinal, in two plexuses, anterior and posterior, running the whole length of the spinal canal. The posterior join the dorsi-spinal veins, the anterior empty into the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins in their various regions. Dorsi-spinalform a plexus around the spines, processes, and laminae of all the vertebrae. They empty into the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins in their respective regions. Describe the Subclavian Vein. It is the continuation of the axillary, extending from the outer marg’n of the 1st rib to the sterno- clavicular articulation, where it unites with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. At the angle of junction enters the thoracic duct on the left side of the body and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. In its course it receives the external and anterior jugular veins and a branch from the cephalic. Describe the Venae Innominatae. The two innominate veins are each formed by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular, and unite below the ist costal cartilage to form the superior vena cava. The Right In- nominat(P is about i yz inch long, and receives, besides its constituent branches, the right in- ternal mammary, right inferior thyroid, and right superior intercostal veins. The Left In- nominate2 is about 3 inches long, and in its course it receives the vertebral, inferior thy- roid, internal mammary, and superior inter- costal veins of the left side. Describe the Superior Vena Cava.1 It is a short trunk about 2^ or 3 inches in length, formed by the union of the vena? innominatae, and receives all the blood from the upper half of the body, termi- nating in the right auricle of the heart. It is half covered by the pericardium, and receives the vena azygos major and small pericardiac and mediastinal veins. Name the Principal Veins of the Lower Extremity. They are in two sets, superficial and deep. The deep are the Vence Comites of the anterior and