THE PELVIS. 41 Fig. 20. 4 Ridges,4 transversely across both surfaces, mark the union of its original segments. 8 Anterior Sacral Foramina, for the anterior sacral nerves. 8 Grooves,5 shallow and broad, for the aforesaid nerves. Promontory, at its junction with the last lumbar vertebrae. 8 Posterior Sacral Foramina, for the posterior sacral nerves. Tubercles, representing the spinous processes of the segments. Groove, posteriorly, on each side of the spinous tubercles. 2 Cornua, at the posterior inferior portion of the bone. Auricular Surface,3 on each side, articulates with the ilium. Notch, laterally and inferiorly, for the 5th sacral nerve. Base,2 has all the characteristics of the lumbar vertebrae, with the last of which it articulates. Apex,16 has an oval surface for articulation with the coccyx. Sacral Canal, the continuation of the spinal, is incomplete posteriorly at its lower end. It transmits the Cauda Equina ; into it open the sacral fora- mina laterally. Fig. 21. Describe the Coccyx. It consists of 4 or 5 rudimentary vertebrae coalesced into a triangular bone, the base1 of which articulates with the apex of the sacrum. Its posterior surface is rough for muscles and liga- ments, its anterior surface is smooth and marked by ridges at the junction of its constituent vertebrae. It presents the fol- lowing points.— 2 Cornua,2 superiorly, articulating with the sacral cornua to form foramina for the 5th sacral nerves. Apex, is sometimes bifid and turned to one side. Describe the Ossa Innominata. The unnamed bones are placed one on each side of the osseous pelvis, and are each formed by the union, about puberty, of 3 bones,—the ilium, ischium, and pubes. The innominate bone as a whole presents the following points, viz.— Acetabtdum, or cotyloid cavity, receives the head of the femur. It is situ- ated at the junction of the 3 bones, the ilium and ischium each forming about two-fifths, and the pubes one-fifth of it. A depression in its centre lodges a mass of fat containing vessels for the nourishment of the synovial 4*