ANATOMY. 98 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. Extensor Brevis Digitorum, the only muscle on the dorsum of the foot, arises from the os calcis externally, the astragalo-calcanean and the anterior annular ligaments,—by 4 tendons, 1 into the 1st phalanx of the great toe, and the others into the outer sides of the long extensor tendons of the 2d, 3d, and 4th toes. Action, to extend the toes. Nerve, anterior tibial. Muscles on the sole of the foot (19), by layers:— 1st Layer. 3d Layer. Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Flexor Brevis Pollicis. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. Adductor Pollicis. Transversus Pedis. 4th Layer. Interossei {4 Dorsal, 3 Plantar). Abductor Pollicis,from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the internal annular ligament, plantar fascia, and intermuscular septum,—into the inner side of the base of the 1st phalanx of the great toe. Action, to abduct the great toe. Nerve, internal plantar. Flexor Brevis Digitorum,/ from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the plantar fascia and intermuscular septa,—into the sides of the 2d pha- Abductor Pollicis. Abductor Minimi Digiti. 2d Layer. Flexor Accessorms. Lumbricales (4). } Pancoast’s Tri, angle, the low* est in the body. Fig. 52. langes of the lesser toes by 4 tendons which are perforated for the long flexor tendons. Action, to flex the lesser toes. Nerve, internal plantar. Abductor Minimi Digiti/ from the outer tuber- osity and under surface of the os calcis, the plantar fascia and the intermuscular septum,— into the base of the 1st phalanx of the little toe with the tendon of its short flexor. Action, to abduct the little toe. Nerve, external plantar. Flexor Accessorius, by 2 heads, from the os calcis and the calcaneo-scaphoid and long plantar ligaments,—into the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Action, accessory flexor of the toes. Nerve, external plantar. Lumbricales^- (4),from the long flexor tendons —into the inner side of the second phalanges of the lesser toes. Action, accessory flexors. Nerves, internal plantar to the two internal,* external plantar to the others.