182 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Where do their Ducts open ? On the floor of the bulbous part of the spongy portion of the urethra, after traversing the wall of the urethra for about one inch, between its mucous and muscular coats. THE PENIS. Of what is the Penis composed ? Of a mass of erectile tissue arranged in three compartments of cylindrical shape, each surrounded by a fibrous sheath which is prolonged inwards, forming numerous bands (trabeculae), which divide the compartment into a number of spaces. The compartments are named the Corpora Cavernosa 1 and the Corpus Spongiosum,2 the latter lying between and beneath the former, like the ramrod of a double barreled gun. Fig. 90. 5 4 .? 45 (8) <&> Describe the Corpora Cavernosa. (19, Fig. 89.) They lie side by side, forming the upper and lateral parts of the penis, are joined together along their anterior three-fourths, their posterior one-fourth form- ing the Crura, which arise from the tuberosi- ties of the ischia and their descending rami, and meet beneath the symphysis pubis, forming two grooves, one above for the dorsal vessels 3, 4 and nerves,5 the inferior one for the corpus spongiosum.2 Bulb of the Corpus Cavernosum,—is a slight enlargement on each crus, near its junction with its fellow. Suspensory Ligament,— a fibrous membrane which connects the root of the organ to the symphysis pubis. Septum Pectiniforme,—is a portion of the fibrous septum between the corpora cavernosa. This septum extends but two-thirds along the penis, and is wanting for its anterior third. Describe the Corpus Spongiosum. It is an erectile tube lying in the inferior groove between the two corpora cavernosa, having within it the urethra, and being expanded at both ends to form the glans penis and the bulb. It is composed of trabecular (band-like) structure, derived from a fibrous sheath, and containing erectile tissue. The Bulb of the Corpus Spongiosum— receives the urethra and is surrounded by the accelerator urince muscle. Clans Penis,—is the external expansion of the corpus spongiosum, and covers by its base the ends of the two corpora cavernosa. Its base pre- sents a rounded border, called the Corona Glandis, behind which is a deep sulcus, the Cervix.