VISCERAL ANATOMY. 190 Canal of Nuck,—is the extension of the above-named process of perito- neum into the inguinal canal. It exists in the foetus, and is usually ob- literated in the adult. Describe the Uterine Structure. The uterine wall has 3 coats—perito- neal, muscular and mucous. Its— Peritoneal or Serous Coat,—invests the body of the organ, excepting on its lower anterior fourth. Muscular Coat,—constitutes the chief bulk of the uterus. It consists of bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, disposed in 3 layers interlaced together; circular fibres predominating in the cervix, longitudinal fibres in the body of the organ. Mucous Coat,—is very thick, jL to inch, and closely adherent to the muscular tissue, having no basement layer of connective tissue. It is covered with ciliated columnar epithelium, and studded with mucous follicles and glands, which are most numerous in the cervix. The latter, when distended by their own secretions, form sacs, which Naboth mistook for human ova, and hence were named the Ovules of Naboth. Enumerate the Uterine Vessels and Nerves. Its— Arteries,—are the Uterine, from the anterior trunk of the external iliac, anas- tomosing with twigs from the Ovarian—(spermatic branch of the abdominal aorta). Veins,—accompany the arteries, and in the impregnated state become sinuses. They end in the uterine plexuses. Lymphatics,—those of the cervix end in the sacral and internal iliac glands, those of the fundus in the lumbar glands. Nerves,—are derived from the inferior hypogastric and ovarian plexuses, and from the 3d and 4th sacral nerves. Describe the Fallopian Tubes or Oviducts. They are two tubes, each about 5 inches in length, and j1^- inch in calibre, situated in the free margin of the broad ligament, and extending from the superior angles of the uterus b outwards, to terminate in free, trumpet-shaped ends, the Fimbriated Extremities,E surrounded by fringe-like processes, the Fimbrice, of which one or more are attached to the ovary of that side. Their structure is similar to that of the uterus, their mucous lining being continuous with the uterine mucous membrane and with the peritoneum. They open by one end into the uterus at its cornua, by the other end into the peritoneal cavity. What are the Ovaries ? Two oval bodies,-F of whitish color, situated in the broad ligament, behind and below the Fallopian tubes, one on each side of the uterus, to which they are attached by the Ligaments of the OvariesM