ANATOMY. 94 border of the great trochanter. Action, to rotate the thigh inwards, also to abduct and draw it forwards, and to maintain the trunk erect. Nerve, superior gluteal. Piriformis,9 by 3 digitations from the front of the sacrum, from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen and the great sacro-sciatic ligament,—into ¥ the upper border of the great trochanter,7 having passed through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Action, an external rotator of the thigh. Nerves, branches from the sacral plexus. Obturator Interims,11 from the posterior bony margin of the obturator foramen and the inner surface of the obturator membrane,—into the great tro- chanter,7 passing through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. Action, an external rotator of the thigh. Nerves, branches from the sacral plexus. Gemellus Superior,10 fro77i the outer surface of the spine of the ischium,— into the great trochanter, being blended with the tendon of the obturator internus. Action, an external rotator of the thigh. Nerves, branches from the sacral plexus. Gemellus Inferior,12 fro77i the tuberosity of the ischium,—into the tendon of the obturator internus and the great trochanter. Action, an external rotator of the thigh. Nerves, branches from the sacral plexus. Obturator Extemus, from the anterior inner bony margin of the obturator fora- men, and the inner two-thirds of the anterior surface of the obturator mem- brane,—into the digital fossa of the femur at the inner base of the great trochanter. Actio7i, an external rotator of the thigh. Ne7've, obturator. Quadratus Femoris,13 froin the tuberosity of the ischium,—into the upper part of the linea quadrati on the trochanter major posteriorly. Action, an external rotator of the thigh. Nerves, branches from the sacral plexus. Biceps,16 by 2 heads, the Long Headd from the tuberosity of the ischium posteri- orly, the Short Head,« from the outer lip of the linea aspera, and the inter- muscular septum,—into the outer side of the head of the fibula; its tendon embracing the external lateral ligament of the kne? joint, and forming the Outer Ha77istring, the tendons of the semi-