ANATOMY. myoides, and buccinator, 6, to the external surface of the body. Sublingual Fossa, near the genial tubercles, for the sublingual gland. Fossa, below the sublingual, for the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Subjtiaxillary Fossa, below the ridge, for the submaxillary gland. Describe the Rami of the Inferior Maxillary. The rami, or ascending portions of the bone, are 2 in number, and each present the— Coronoid Process, anteriorly, f<?r the insertion of the temporal muscle. Condyloid Process, posteriorly. Its condyle articulates with the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone, its neck receives the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle, its tubercle has attached to it the external lateral liga- ment of the lower jaw. Sigmoid Notch, a deep depression separating the above-named processes from each other, and crossed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. Groove, on the coronoid process internally, and prolonged downwards upon the body, for the attachment of the buccinator muscle. Ridges, on the external surface, for the insertion of the masseter. Spine, a projection on the internal surface, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Inferior Dental Canal, opening behind the spine, lies within the ramus and body of the bone for the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It communi- cates with each alveolus and with the mental foramen. Mylo hyoid Groove, below the spine, for the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. Rough Surface, behind the groove, for the internal pterygoid muscle. Angle of the faw, at the junction of the posterior body of the ramus with the inferior border of the body, for the insertion of the masseter and in- ternal pterygoid muscles, and the stylo-maxillary ligament. Describe the Articulations and Development of the Inferior Max- illary bone. It articulates with one pair of bones,—the temporal. It is the earliest formed bone in the body except the clavicle, and is probably developed by 2 centres, one for each lateral half, the two halves coalescing at the symphysis about the 1st year of age. In adult life the ramus arises almost vertically from the body, and the dental canal lies about the middle of the body. In old age the ramus extends obliquely backwards, the angle becoming very obtuse; and the alveolar portion being absorbed, the dental canal is near the superior border. What Muscles are attached to the Inferior Maxillary? They number 15 pairs,—the masseter, internal and external pterygoids and temporal, 4, to the ramus;—the genio-hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, mylo-nyoid, digastric, and superior constrictor, 5, to the internal surface of the body;—the depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, levator menti, orbicularis oris, platysma