131 THE CRANIAL NERVES. illary division and motor root, by the foramen ovale. The Gasserian gan- glion,5 is situated on the sensory root at the origin of its three divisions. Ophthalmic Division,6 goes to the forehead, eyelids, lachrymal gland, con- junctiva, iris, ciliary ganglion, and the nose. Its branches are Frontal.9 Lachrymal.10 Nasal.11 Superior Maxillary Division,7 goes to the temple, cheek, lower eyelid, nose, lip, upper teeth, and to Meckel’s ganglion, thence to the palate. Its branches are the— Orbital* Posterior Denial« infraorbUalA Spheno-palatine. Anterior Dental.1* (Labial. Inferior Maxillary Division,8 includes the motor branch, and is therefore a nerve of common sensation, motion, and special sense (taste). Its motor filaments go to the muscles of mastication; its sensory to the auditory meatus, to the otic and submaxillary ganglia, the anterior part of the tongue, the cheek, teeth, and the lingualis muscle (sensation). Its branches are the— Masseteric. Auriculo-temporal.26 Gustatory.23 Deep Temporal {2). or Posterior Division, Inferior Dental21 Buccal. having 8 sub-branches. Pterygoid. 6th, Abducens,10 motor of the eye,—arises from the medulla oblongata, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle; exit by the sphenoidal fissure, to the ex- ternal rectus muscle of the eye. l Mylo-hyoid.28 J Dental Brs. ) Incisor. ( Mental.25 7th, Facial, or Portio Dura,11 motor of the face, ear, palate, and tongue,— arises from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies of the medulla, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle. Exit by internal audi- tory meatus, through the aqueductus Fallopii, and stylo-mastoid foramen, to the muscles of expression, the tongue, muscles of the ear and palate, etc. It communicates with the carotid and meningeal plexuses, the spheno-palatine (Meckel’s) and the otic ganglia, the auditory, great auricular, pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and 5th nerves. Its chief branches are the— Great Petrosal, to Meckel’s ganglion. Small Petrosal, to the otic ganglion. External Petrosal, to the meningeal plexus. Tympanic, to the muscles of the tympanum. Chorda Tympani, to the tongue, etc. Posterior Auricular, to auricle and occiput. Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. Temporo-facial. Cervicofacial. ( Temporal. < Malar. (Inf-orbital. | Buccal. < Supra-maxik (Infra-maxil. 8th, Auditory, or Portio Mollis of the 7th,11 nerve of hearing,—arises just external to the facial, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle; exit by the internal auditory meatus, to the internal ear. Its branches are two, the— Vestibular, to the vestibule. Cochlear, to the cochlea. [This nerve is fully describe*! Rt page 225, infra.)