ANATOMY. 70 Depressor Alae Nasi, from the incisive fossa of the superior maxillary,—into the septum and ala of the nose. Action, to contract the nostril. Nerve, facial. Levator Labii Superioris, f from the lower margin of the orbit,—into the upper lip. Action, to elevate the lip. Nerve, facial. Levator Anguli Oris,<? from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary,—into the angle of the mouth. Action, as named. Nerve, facial. Zygomaticus Major,h from the malar bone,—into the angle of the mouth. Action, to raise the lip outwards. Nerve, facial. Zygomaticus Minor,g from the malar bone anteriorly,—into the angle of the mouth, blending with the levator labii superioris. Action, to raise the lip outwards. Nerve, facial. Levator Labii Inferioris>« (Levator Menti),/rewz the incisive fossa of the in- ferior maxillary bone,—into the integument of the lower lip. Action, as named. ATerve, facial. Depressor Labii Inferioris^ (Quadratus Menti),_/rcwz the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone,—into the lower lip. Action, as named. Nerve, facial. Depressor Anguli Oris« (Triangularis Menti), from the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary,—into the angle of the mouth. Action, as named. Nerve, facial. Orbicularis Oris/’ by accessory fibres (accessorii orbicularis superioris and in- ferioris, and naso-labialis) from the nasal septum and the superior and in- ferior maxillary borders,—into the buccinator and other adjacent muscles, forming the sphincter of the mouth. Action, to close the mouth. Nerve, facial. Buccinator,/ from the posterior alveolar processes of both the maxillary bones and the pterygo-maxillary ligament,—into the orbicularis oris. Ac- tion, to compress the cheeks. Nerves, facial, and the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary. Risorius, from the fascia over the masseter muscle,—into the angle of the mouth. Action, the laughing muscle. Nerve, facial. Masseter/ from the anterior two-thirds and the inner surface of the zygoma and the malar process of the superior maxillary,—into the angle, ramus, and coronoid process of the lower jaw. Action, to raise the back part of the lower jaw ; a muscle of mastication. Nei-ve, inferior maxillary. Temporal, from the temporal fossa and temporal fascia,—into the coronoid process of the inferior maxillary. Action, to bring the incisor teeth together; the biting muscle. Nerve, inferior maxillary.