ANATOMY. 124 behind the corpora striata. Each thalamus opticus is divided into an anterioi tubercle seen in the lateral ventricle, and a posterior tubercle beneath the fornix. Corpora Quadrigemina, or Optic Lobes (2 nates and 2 testes), lie beneath the posterior lobes, near the union of the cerebrum and cerebellum. They form two single ganglia for vision. [Described under Meso-cephalon.] Tuber Annulare, a ganglion in the substance of the pons Varolii, the seat of indistinct sensation probably. Name the Commissures of the Brain. These connecting bands number 19 In all, of which 10 are longitudinal, and 9 transverse in direction, viz.— Longitudinal Commissures. Olfactory Tracts. Taenia Semicircularis. Crura Cerebri. Processes e Cerebello ad Testes. Peduncles of the Pineal Gland. Fornix. Infundibulum. Lamina Cinerea. Gyrus Fornicatus. Fasciculus Unciformis. Transverse Commissures. Anterior Commissure of 3d ventricle. Middle Commissure of 3d ventricle. Posterior Commissure of 3d ventricle. Corpus Callosum. Optic Commissure. Pons Varolii. Fornix, is a transverse commissure as well as a longitudinal one. Posterior Medullary Velum. Valve of Vieussens. What are the Ventricles of the Brain ? They are 5 cavities, each of which is situated as follows — Tivo Lateral Ventricles, within the substance of the hemispheres. Third Ventricle, between the optic thalami, on the base of the brain. Fourth Ventricle, between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. Fifth Ventricle, between the two lateral, in the septum lucidum. Ventricle of the Corpus Callosum, so called, is merely the space between the upper surface of that commissure and the margins of the hemispheres above (labia cerebri). The Foramina of ALonroe connect the two lateral ventricles with the 3d; the Lter e Tertio ad Quartam Ventriculum, or aqueduct of Sylvius, connects the 3d with the 4th. Describe and bound the Lateral Ventricles. They each have 3 Cornua, the anterior, middle, and posterior, and are bounded as follows:— Roof—the corpus callosum. Floor,—the corpus striatum, taenia semicircularis or horny band of Tarinus, optic thalamus, choroid plexus, corpus fimbriatum, and the fornix. Lnternally,—the septum lucidum. Externally, behind and in front,—the brain substance.