47 BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. THE FORE-ARM. Describe the Ulna. The elbow-bone is the internal bone of the fore-arm. It is larger and longer than the radius, forming the greater portion of the articulation with the humerus. It does not enter into the formation of the wrist-joint, being excluded therefrom by an interarticular fibro-cartilage. It presents the following, viz.— Olecranon Process,d at the upper extremity, forming the elbow. It is curved forwards, its apex being received into the olecranon fossa of the humerus when the fore arm is extended. Its posterior surface gives insertion to the tendon of the triceps. In its function and structure it resembles the patella. Coronoid Process,e below the olecranon, projects forwards, its apex being received into the coronoid fossa of the humerus when the fore-arm is flexed. Its upper surface is concave for articulation with the humerus, its lower surface rough for the insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle. Its inner surface has a margin for the internal lateral ligament, a tubercle for the flexor sublimis digitorum, and a ridge for the pronator radii teres. Greater Sigmoid Cavity,l lies between the processes, and is divided by a vertical ridge into two unequal parts. It articulates with the trochlear surface of the humerus. ^ riG. 24. Lesser Sigmoid Cavity c lies external to the coronoid process; is oval and concave, articulating with the head of the radius, and giving attachment to the orbicular ligament. Shaft a- large and prismatic above, smaller and rounded below, has the Nutrient Foramen/on its anterior sur- face, and a prominent margins externally, to which is attached the interosseous membrane. The shaft gives attachment to 9 of the 12 muscles of the fore- arm. Headf at the carpal end, articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint. Styloid Process,i projecting from the head internally and posteriorly, its apex gives attachment to the in- ternal lateral ligament, and a depression at its root to the fibro-cartilage of the joint. Groove, for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. P