ANATOMY. 96 4 lesser toes, by 4 tendons which pass over the dorsum of the foot, from the outer canal in the anterior annular ligament. Ac- tion, to extend the lesser toes. Nerve, anterior tibial. Peroneus Tertius6 (Flexor Tarsi Fibularis),ynwz the outer lower one-fourth of the fibula, interosseous membrane, and intermuscular septum,—into the base of the 5th metatarsal bone. This muscle is a part of the last named, and passes through the same canal in the annular ligament. Action, to flex the tarsus. Nerve, anterior tibial. Gastrocnemius, by 2 heads from the condyles of the femur, and the supra-condyloid ridges,—unites with the tendon of the soleus to form the tendo A chillis, into the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. Action, to extend the foot. Nerve, internal popliteal. Soleus, from the head and upper one-half of the shaft of the fibula posteriorly, the oblique line of the tibia, and the tendinous arch,—unites with the tendon of the gastrocnemius as the tendo A chillis (see above). Action, to extend the foot. Nerve, internal popliteal. Plantaris, from the outer bifurcation of the linea aspera, and posterior ligament of the knee-joint, by a very long, delicate tendon,—into the posterior surface of the os calcis. Action, to extend the foot. Nerve, internal popliteal. Popliteus,6 from a depression on the external condyle of the femur, and the posterior ligament of the knee- joint,—into the inner two-thirds of the triangular surface on the shaft of the tibia posteriorly and above the oblique line. Action, to flex the leg. Nerve, internal popliteal. Flexor Longus Pollicis,9 from the lower two-thirds of the shaft of the fibula internally, the interosseous membrane, fascia, and intermuscular septum,— through grooves in the tibia, astragalus, and os calcis,—into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Action, to flex the great toe. Nerve, poste- rior tibial. F'lexor Longus Digitorum,7 from the shaft of the tibia posteriorly and below the oblique line, and the intermuscular septum,—passes behind the inner malleolus in a groove13 with the tibialis posticus,—into the bases of