127 THE BRAIN. What is the Meso-cephalon ? It comprises the parts which connect the cerebrum with the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, and includes the following structures, viz :— Pons Varolii, a great transverse commissure seen at the base of the brain in front of the medulla. Its fibres connect the hemispheres of the cere- bellum with each other and the medulla. Crura Cerebri, or Peduncles of the Cerebrum, extend from the pons to the corpora striata and optic thalami, and consist of the Peduncular Fibres which pass from the medulla to the ganglia named, and thence upwards to the gray matter of the hemispheres as the Corona Radioda. Each crus contains in its centre a mass of gray matter called the locus niger. Valve of Vieussens, is a thin lamina forming the roof of the iter e tertio ad quartam ventriculum, and stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes. Its Frenulum is a ridge descending on its upper part from the corpora quadrigemina. Corpora Quadrigemina, or Optic Lobes, are 4 spherical eminences placed together above the valve of Vieussens, and behind the 3d ventricle be- neath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. The anterior pair are called the Nates, the posterior, the Testes, and they are connected with the optic thalami and optic tracts by 4 bands, their Brachia; and with the cerebellum by a white cord on each side, the Processus e Cerebello ad Testes. They form two ganglia for the centre of vision. Pineal Gland, is a small conical reddish body situated between the nates, on which it rests. Its 4 peduncles connect it with the anterior crura of the fornix, and the optic thalami. It is very vascular, and has a small cavity (said to communicate with the 3d ventricle) which contains a viscid fluid, and some concretions formed of the phosphates of lime, magnesia, and ammonia, etc., called the Acervulus Cerebri. Describe the Medulla Oblongata. This ganglion is the upper enlarged part of the spinal cord, extending from the upper border of the atlas to the pons Varolii. Its posterior surface forms the floor of the 4th ventricle, its anterior surface rests on the basilar groove of the occipital bone. It is divided into two lateral halves by the Anterior and Posterior Median Fissures, and con- tains gray matter scattered throughout it, from which the cranial nerves from the 5th to the 12th inclusive arise entirely or in part. In it are supposed to lit the centres for the vaso-motor and the cardiac nerves, also centres of respira- tion, phonation, deglutition, mastication, and expression. On each side it pre- sents the following,— Anterior Pyra?nid, formed by the anterior and lateral columns of the spinal cord.