24 ANATOMY. What muscles are attached to it? There are n, viz.—the orbicularis palpebrarum, and levator anguli oris alseque nasi, 2, to the nasal process ;—the levator labii superioris, levator anguli oris, compressor naris, depressor alse nasi, orbicularis oris, and inferior oblique of the eye, 6, to the body ;—the buc- cinator, 1, to the alveolar process ;—the masseter, 1, to the malar process ;—and the external pterygoid, 1, to the tuberosity. THE LACHRYMAL BONES. Describe them. They are 2 small quadrilateral-shaped bones, situated in the anterior part of the inner wall of the orbit. Each presents a— Groove, on the external surface, forming part of the nasal duct. Ridge, also externally, for attachment of the tensor tarsi muscle. Furrow, internally, corresponding to the ridge on the external surface. Hamular Process, projecting downwards to articulate with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone. Internal Surface, closes the anterior ethmoidal cells. Describe its articulations, development, and muscles. The lachry- mal articulates with 4 bones,—the frontal, ethmoid, superior maxillary, and inferior turbinated. It is developed from 1 centre, and has but 1 muscle attached to it, the tensor tarsi, or Horner’s muscle. THE MALAR BONES. Describe them. The cheek bones are situated at the outer and upper part of the face, aiding to form the cavities of the orbits and the temporal and zyg- omatic fossoe. Each presents an— External Surface, convex, for attachment of the zygomatic muscles. Foramen, externally, for the malar branch of the temporo-malar nerve. Foramen,c internally, for the temporal branch of the same nerve. Frontal Process* articulates with the external angular process of the frontal. Orbital Process p projecting backwards, forming part of the floor and outer wall of the orbit, as well as part of the temporal fossa, and bounds th« spheno-maxillary fissure anteriorly. Zygo?natic Process,/ projecting backwards to articulate with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone by a serrated edge. Upper Border p forms the outer and inferior margin of the orbit. Lower Border, thick and rough, for the origin of the mas- seter muscle. Anterior Borderf articulates with the superior maxillary bone. Posterior Border, terminates the temporal fossa below. Fig. 7.