ANATOMY. 78 Serratus Posti'cus Superior, from the ligamentum nuchae, and spines of the 7th cervical and 2 or 3 upper dorsal vertebrae,—into the upper borders of the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th ribs, by 4 digitations. Action, to raise ribs in in- spiration. Nerves, external posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Serratus Posti'cus Inferior,16 from the spines of the last 2 dorsal and first 3 lumbar vertebrae,—into the lower borders of the 4 lower ribs, by 4 digi- tations. Action, to depress these ribs in expiration. Nerves", external branches of the dorsal nerves. Splenius Capitis 13 et Colli,14 from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, the last cervical and 6 upper dorsal spines, and the supra-spinous ligament, —the S. capitis into the mastoid process and a rough surface below the supe- rior curved line of the occipital bone,—the S. colli into the transverse processes of the 3 or 4 upper cervical vertebrae. Action, to draw the head backwards and the neck erect. Nerves, external posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Erector Spinae,1 from the sacro-iliac groove, and by the lumbo-sacral tendon from the sacral, lumbar and 3 lower dorsal spines, the iliac crest, and the posterior eminences of the sacrum,—divides into the sacro-lumbalis2 and longissimus dorsi3 muscles. Action, to erect the spine and bend the trunk backwards. Arerves, external posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. Sacro-lumbalis,2 from the erector spinae,—into the angles of the 6 lower ribs. Action, as the erector spinae. Nerves, branches of the dorsal. Musculus Accessorius ad Sacfo-lumbalem,2 from the angles of 6 lower ribs,—into the angles of 6 upper ribs. Action, as the erector spinae. Nerves, branches of the dorsal. Cervicalis Ascendens,5 from the angles of 4 or 5 upper ribs,—into the transverse processes of the 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical vertebrae. Action, to keep the neck erect. Nerves, branches of the cervical. Longissimus Dorsi,3 from the erector spinae,—into the transverse and articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into from 7 to 11 ribs between their tubercles and angles. Action, as the erector spinae. Nerves, branches of the lumbar and dorsal nerves. Transversalis Colli,6 from the transverse processes of the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th dorsal vertebrae,—into the transverse processes of the 5 lower cervical.9 Action, to keep the neck erect. Nerves, cervical branches. Trachelo-mastoid,7 from the transverse processes of the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th dorsal vertebrae, and the articular processes of the 3 or 4 lower cervical,— into the posterior margin of the mastoid process. Action, to steady the head. Nei'ves, branches of the cervical.