196 THE NOSE. Describe the Sweat-glands. Each gland consists of a single convoluted tube, situated usually in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and opening on the surface of the integument by a spiral duct which pierces the derma and the epidermis. It is formed of two coats, an external fibro-cellular, which is con- tinuous with the corium, and an epithelial lining, continuous with the epidermis. State the probable number of Sweat-glands and their Evaporating area. They are estimated as varying, in different parts of the integument, from 417 to 2800 to the square inch, giving for the whole body a total of nearly two millions and a half, representing an evaporating surface of about 8 square inches. ORGANS OF TASTE. What are the special Organs of Taste ? The Taste-buds, small, flask- shaped bodies, each about inch long, situated in the fungiform and cir- cumvallate papillae of the tongue. The seat of the sense of taste lies, how- ever, in the mucous membrane covering the dorsum of the tongue, the upper portion of the pharynx, the soft palate and the fauces. Name the special Nerves of Taste in the Tongue. The— Chorda Tympani Branch of the Facial,—for its anterior two-thirds; perceiv- ing saline, acid and styptic qualities (Flint). Lingual Branch of the Glossopharyngeal,—for its posterior third; apprecia- ting alkaline, metallic, sweet and bitter tastes (Flint). What is Sapolini’s view of the Chorda Tympani Nerve ? From re- peated dissections, Dr. Sapolini, of Milan, believes the chorda tympani to be a separate cranial nerve, having its proximal end in the so-called intermediary nerve of Wrisberg, originating in the floor of the 4th ventricle, and termina- ting in a dense plexus with the lingual branch of the 5th nerve, in the mus- cles of the tongue. He further concludes that the chorda tympani is the nerve governing the movements of the tongue in speech, and that the nerves of taste are the Lingual Branches of the 5th and 9th nerves. THE NOSE. [For an osteological description of the Nasal Fossce and Septum, see page 31.] Where is the Organ of Smell situated ? In the mucous lining of the upper portion of the nasal fossae, which is the seat of distribution of the ter- minal filaments* of the Olfactory Nerve,d the special nerve of the sense of smell. What is the Schneiderian Membrane ? The Schneiderian or Pituitary Membrane is the mucous membrane of the nasal fossae. It is continuous with