BONES OF THE LEG. 51 Shaft, is slightly curved forwards, broad and cylindrical at each end, and narrow and triangular in the centre. Its nutrient foramen perforates its posterior surface below the centre. From its anterior surface arise th<s crureus and sub-crureus muscles. Linea Aspera,gg a crest lying along the central third of the shaft posteriorly; bifurcating above towards each trochanter, also below towards the 2 con- dyles. To its outer lip is attached the vastus externus, to its inner lip, the vastus interims; and between them, the pectineus, adductor brevis, and gluteus maximus above the short head of the biceps below, and the ad- ductors longus and magnus along the greater portion of the space. Groove, crossing the internal condyloid ridge, and lodging the femoral artery. Popliteal Spacef triangular and smooth, lying between the condyloid ridges, for the popliteal artery. External Condyle p broader and shorter than the internal, so as to form a horizontal articulation, the bone being inclined towards the median line. It gives attachment to the external lateral ligament, and the popliteus and gastrocnemius muscles. Internal Condyle/ the longest by half an inch; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament and the gastrocnemius muscle. Inter-condyloid Notch f lodges the crucial ligaments. In front the condyles are continuous with each other, forming a concave depression or trochlea for the patella. Outer Tuberosity, on the external condyle, for the attachment of the exter- nal lateral ligament. Groove, below the outer tuberosity, for the tendon of the popliteus muscle, terminating in a depression whence the muscle takes its origin. Inner Tuberosity, on the internal condyle, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. Tubercle, above the inner tuberosity, for the insertion of the tendon of tht adductor magnus muscle. Depression, behind the tubercle, for the tendon of the inner head of the gastrocnemius. THE LEG. Describe the Tibia. The shin-bone ranks next to the femur in respect to size and length. Its form is prismoidal,'the upper extremity being much larger than the lower. Head, expands into 2 lateral tuberosities,^ which articulate with the con- dyles of the femur. % Spine f projects vertically between the 2 articular surfaces, is bifid, affording attachment to the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and by depressions in front and behind its base to the crucial ligaments of the joint.