ANATOMY. 22 THE NASAL BONES. ’Describe them. They are 2 small bones forming the bridge of the nose by articulation with each other in the median line. They are convex exter- nally, concave internally, and grooved for the external branch of the nasal nerve and for small arteries. They each -articulate with 4 bones,—the frontal, ethmoid, superior maxillary, and the opposite nasal; are each developed by one centre of ossification, and have no muscles attached to them. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. Describe them. They are 2 hollow bones, together forming the upper jaw. Each bone consists of 4 processes, and a body which possesses a large cavity, the antrum of Highmore. Describe the Antrum of Highmore. It is a pyramidal cavity in the body of the bone, and opens into the middle meatus of the nose by an aperture which is very small in the recent subject, admitting only a small probe. Its walls are very thin, and are covered internally by a mucous membrane. It presents the— Aperture, partly closed by the articulation of the unciform process of the ethmoid with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated; and that of the maxillary process of the palate with a fissure in the superior maxil- lary; also by the maxillary process of the inferior turbinated which hooks over the lower edge of the orifice. Posterior Dental Canals, on the posterior wall of the cavity. Processes in its floor, formed by the alveoli of the 1st and 2d molar teeth, the roots of which occasionally perforate it. What other points are presented by the body? The body has 4 surfaces, the facial externally, the zygomatic posteriorly, the orbital superiorly, and an internal surface forming part of the outer wall of the nose and the cavity of the mouth. It presents the— Incisive Fossa,2 on the facial surface, above the incisor sockets, for the origin of the depressor alse nasi muscle. Canine Fossa} more externally, for the levator anguli oris. Infraorbital Foramen,3 above the ca- nine fossa, transmitting the infraor- bital vessels and nerve, from the in- fraorbital canal in the orbital surface of the bone.