VISCERAL ANATOMY. 216 What Nerves supply the Membrana Tympani ? The external layer contains filaments from the Superficial Temporal branch of the 5th; the inner layer is supplied by the Tympanic Plexus. (See Nerves of Tympanum.) The Tympanum. Describe the Tympanum. The Tympanum, Drum, or Middle Ear, is an irregularly-shaped cavity lying between the membrana tympani and the internal ear, and communicating with the pharyngeal cavity by the Eustachian tube. It contains the ossicles of the tympanum, part of the chorda tympani nerve, and air. Its average diameters are about i inch antero-posteriorly, | to | inch vertically, and ^ to i inch transversely. Name the Points on each wall of the Tympanum. Its— Roof,—is very thin, and corresponds to a depression on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Floor,—is a thin plate, separating it from the jugular fossa and vein. Has— Opening for Jacobson1 s Nerve,—in the floor. Outer Wall,—is formed by the membrana tympani and presents the— Iter Chorhe Posterius,—opens close to posterior edge of drumhead, for the entrance of the chorda tympani nerve. Iter Chordce Anterius, or Canal of Hugier,— opening just in front of the drumhead, for the exit of the chorda tympani nerve. (See p. 16.) Glaserian Fissure,—opens above and in front of the drumhead, receiving the long process of the malleus, the anterior ligament of the malleus, and the tympanic artery. (See ante, p. 15.) Inner Wall,—is the outer wall of the labyrinth;—presents the— Fenestra Ovalis,—an oval opening, leading into the vestibule, and closed by a membrane, to which is attached the base of the stapes. Fenestra Rotunda,—a smaller opening, below the fenestra ovalis, leading into the scala tympani of the cochlea, and closed by the Membrana Tym- pani Secundaria. Promonotory,—an elevation corresponding to the first turn of the cochlea, situated between the fenestrae and in front of them. Ridge of the Aqueducius Fallopii,— above the fenestra ovalis, behind which it curves downwards along the posterior wall. Pyramid,—a conical eminence containing a canal which communicates with the aqueductus Fallopii and encloses the stapedius muscle. Anterior Wall,—presents the— Opening of Canal for the Tensor Tympani Muscle,—above, situated on a small projection, the Anterior Pyramid. * Opening of the Eustachian Tube,—next below. These two canals being separated by a bony lamina, the Septum Tubce.