THE CRANIAL FORAMINA. 35 Foramen Lacerum Medium,q—internal carotid artery, carotid plexus, large petrosal nerve, and a branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Small Foramen,—lesser petrosal nerve. Hiatus Fallopii,—large petrosal nerve, branch of middle meningeal artery. Posterior Fossa contains 6 pairs and I single, viz.— Meatus Auditorius Internus,—facial and auditory nerves, auditory artery. Aqueductus Vestibuli,—small artery and vein, process of dura mater. Foramen Lacerum Posterius,r—glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves, internal jugular vein, meningeal branches of the ascend- ing pharyngeal and occipital arteries. Mastoid Foramen (often absent),—small vein, occasionally the mastoid artery. Anterior Condyloid Foramen,—hypoglossal nerve, meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Posterior Condyloid Foramenw (often absent), posterior condyloid vein. Foramen Magnumf—medulla oblongata and its membranes, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. Externally, at the base of the skull are io pairs, viz.— Opening of the Eustachian Tube,—air to the middle ear. Opening of Tensor Tympani Canal,—the tensor tympani muscle. Orifice of the Vidian Canal,—the Vidian nerve, and vessels. Glasserian Fissure,»—laxator tympani muscle, tympanic artery, processus gracilis of the malleus. Orifice of the Canal of Hugier,—chorda tympani nerve. Foramen for facobson's Nerve,—tympanic branch of glosso-pharyngeal. Foramen for Arnold's Nerve,—auricular branch of pneumogastric. Opening of the Aqueductus Cochlece,—vein to the cochlea. Stylo-mastoid Foramen,t—facial nerve, stylo-mastoid artery. Auricular Fissure,—exit of Arnold’s nerve. Face presents 3 pairs, viz.— Supraorbital Foramen or ATotch,—supraorbital artery, vein, and nerve. Infraorbital Foramen,—infraorbital artery and nerve. Mental Foramen,—mental artery and nerve. Palate presents, on each side at least 6 pairs, viz.— Incisive Foraminal (one or two),—nerves and vessels to the incisor teeth. 2 Anterior Palatine,—anterior palatine vessels, naso-palatine nerves. Posterior Palatine,—posterior palatine vessels, anterior palatine nerve. Accessory Palatine Foramina (one or two),—posterior palatine nerves. Pterygopalatine Forai?ien,—pterygo-palatine vessels.