ANATOMY. 40 ioth Rib, lias but one facet on its head. nth Rib, has no neck, no tuberosity, and but one facet on its head. 12th Rib, has neither neck, angle, tuberosity nor groove, and but one facet THE PELVIS. Describe the Pelvis. It is formed by the sacrum, coccyx, and two ossa innominata, and is divided into,—the false pelvis, comprising the upper and expanded portion,—and the true pelvis, below the ilio-pectineal line. The false pelvis corresponds to the iliac fossae, and is marked by its walls being deficient anteriorly between the iliac, borders, and posteriorly between the sacrum and the posterior iliac spines. The true pelvis has a— Brim, or inlet, bounded in front by the crest and spine of the pubes, behind by the promontory of the sacrum, laterally by the ilio-pectineal line. Its axis corresponds to a line from the umbilicus to the middle of the coccyx. Its average diameters in the female are,—4 inches antero-posteriorly,4 over 5 iilches transversely,2 under 5 inches obliquely.3 In the male each of these measurements is about ]/2 an inch less. Cavity, is a short curved canal, connecting the brim with the outlet. In front its depth is about 1y inch, posteriorly 4 to 4 x/2 inches in the female, \]/2 to 5*^ inches in the male. Its diameter is about 4^ inches in the female, 4^ inches in the male, all around. Outlet, is bounded by the pubic arch above, the tip of the coccyx behind, and the tuberosities of the ischii laterally. Its axis, if prolonged, would touch the promontory of the sacrum. Its diameters in the female are each about 4^ inches, in the male about 3^ inches. State the chief differences between the male and female pelves. The male pelvis is marked by strength of the bones, prominence of the muscular impres- sions, a deep and narrow cavity, and large obturator foramina. The female pel- vis has lighter bones, broader iliac fossae, the spines being further apart, greater diameters at every point, the sacrum less curved, and the pubic arch wider. Describe the Sacrum. The “sacred bone” is triangular, curved, with its convexity backwards, and is situated base upwards between the ossa innominata, forming with the coccyx the posterior wall of the pelvis. The bone is formed by the coalescence of 5 vertebrae, and presents the following points, viz— Fig. 19.