ANATOMY. 32 Inferior Meatus of the nose, the largest; into it open 2 orifices,—those of the lachrymal, and anterior palatine canals. To these may be added the anterior and posterior nares. Describe the Temporal Fossa. Situated on each side of the cranium, it is shallow above and behind, but deep in front and below; and is formed by parts of 5 bones,—the frontal, sphenoid, temporal, parietal, and malar. It is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge, in front by the malar frontal and sphenoid bones, and below by the zygoma and the pterygoid ridge on the greater wing of the sphenoid. It is traversed by 6 sutures,—the spheno-malar, spheno-frontal, spheno-parietal, spheno-temporal, fronto-parietal, and temporo-parietal. It opens below into the zygomatic fossa ; and lodges the temporal muscle, and the deep temporal vessels. Describe the Zygomatic Fossa. Extending downwards from the tem- poral fossa, it is thus bounded,— In front, by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone. Externally, by the zygoma, and the ramus of the inf. maxillai^. Internally, by the external plate of the pterygoid process. Above, by the temporal fossa, the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and the greater wing of the sphenoid. Below, by the alveolar border of the inferior maxillary bone. What Fissures open into the Zygomatic Fossa. Two, the— Spheno-maxillary Fissure, between the greater wing of the sphenoid externally, and the superior maxillary and palate bones internally. It connects the orbit with the zygomatic, temporal, and.spheno-maxillary fossae; and trans- mits the infraorbital artery, the superior maxillary nerve and its orbital branches, and the ascending branches of Meckel’s ganglion. Pterygo-maxillary Fissure, between the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It transmits branches of the internal maxillary artery, and connects the zygomatic fossa with the spheno-maxillary. Describe the Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. It is a triangular cavity be- tween the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary, and is situated at the junction of the spheno-maxillary, pterygo-maxillary, and sphenoidal fissures. Into it open— 3 Fosses,—the orbital, zygomatic, and nasal. 2 Cavities,—the cranial, and buccal. 3 Foramina,—the Vidian and pterygo-palatine canals, and the foramen rotundum, posteriorly; the spheno-palatine foramen on the inner wall; and the posterior palatine canal inferiorly;—occasionally also the acces> sory palatine canals.