64 ANATOMY. obturator, anterior crural, external and internal popliteal. It has 14 ligaments, of which 6 are external and 8 internal, as follows:— Anterior, or Ligamentum Patellce, is a continuation of the tendon of the Fig. 35. rectus femoris muscle, extending from the apex of the patella to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. Posterior, or Ligamentum Winslowii} from the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle of the femur, being partly derived from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle.2 Internal Lateral,5 from the internal condyle of the femur to the internal surface of the tibia and semi- lunar cartilage. 2 External■ Lateral,6 from the external condyle of the femur to the head of the fibula. These ligaments are a Long anteriorly and a Short posteriorly, separated by the tendon of the biceps. Capsular, is only present where intervals are left by the preceding ligaments. It is thin but very strong. The Internal ligaments are as follows:— • Anterior Crucial,2 from the depression in front of the spine of the tibia to the inner side of the outer condyle of the femur. Posterior Crucial,3 from the same depression, to the outer side of the inner condyle. [To remember the positions and insertions of these crucial liga- ments, let the student cross his index fingers over each knee in succession; when over the right knee placing the right finger in front, when over the left knee the left finger in front. The positions of the fingers will then in each case correspond with those of the respective crucial ligaments.] 2 Semilunar Fibro-cartilages p external and internal, are situated between the articular surfaces, and attached to the depressions in front and behind the spine of the tibia. Transverse,4 is a connecting slip between the semilunar fibro-cartilages anteriorly. Coronary,7 are short bands connecting the outer margins of the fibro-cartilages to the tibia and the adjacent lig- aments. Ligamentum Mucosum, is a triangular fold of the syn- ovial membrane which at the lower border of the patella is given off to the intercondyloid notch of the femur. Ligamenta Alaria, are fringes on the sides of the liga- mentum mucosum, and are attached to the sides of the patella.