FEMORAL HERNIA. 229 eviternally,—Transversalis fascia, Iliac fascia, Gimbernat’s ligament, and the deep Crural arch. Name the Structures in relation with the Femoral Ring. I he— Spermatic Cord,—in the male, lies directly above its anterior margin, replaced by the round ligament in the female. Femoral Vein,4—lies next on its outer side. Epigastric Artery,—crosses its upper and outer angle. Obturator Artery,—when arising from a common trunk with the epigastric, as it does once in subjects, may lie close along its internal and superior margins. What is the Septum Crurale ? A layer of condensed cellular tissue, supporting a lymphatic gland, and perforated for the passage of lymphatic vessels. It lies across the femoral ring, and forms one of the coverings to any hernia escaping thereby. It is sometimes named the Fascia of Cloquet, or Fascia of Cooper. Describe the Crural Sheath. It is the sheath which invests the femoral vessels below Poupart’s ligament, and is formed by a prolongation of the transversalis fascia anteriorly, and the iliac fascia posteriorly. It is divided by two septa into 3 compartments, the exterior of which contains the Femoral Artery, the middle one the Femoral Vein, while the one most internal is the Femoral Canal. The sheath is perforated anteriorly by the genito-crural nerve, internally by the internal saphenous vein, and forms one of the coverings of a femoral hernia. What is the Deep Crural Arch ? It is the lower thickened border of the transversalis fascia, which arches across the front of the crural sheath, and is intimately connected therewith. It seems to be attached externally to the centre of Poupart’s ligament; internally it is inserted into the pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon. Name the Coverings of Femoral Hernia. From without inwards its coverings are the— 1. Skin. 2. Superficial F'ascia,—2 layers. 3. Cribriform Fascia,—from the saphenous opening. 4. Crural Sheath,—from the transversalis fascia. 5. Septum Crurale,—from the femoral ring. 6. Peritoneum,—the proper hernial sac.