113 THE ARTERIES. the tibia for its lower one-third. It is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve close to it externally, and is crossed below by the tendon of the extensor pro- prius pollicis. Its branches are— Recurrent Tibial. Muscular. External and Internal Malleolar. Describe the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. It is the continuation of the ante- rior tibial, extending from the front of the ankle-joint to the 1st interosseous space, where it terminates in the Dorsalis Hallucis and the Communicating. The anterior tibial nerve lies close to its outer side. Its branches are as follows :— Tarsea, passing outwards along the tarsus. Metatarsea, giving off 3 interosseae, and they 7 digital. Dorsali's Hallucis, to the great toe and the inner side of the second toe by its 3 digital branches. Communicating, which dips down into the sole of the foot in the 1st inter- osseous space of the metatarsus, to inosculate with the external plantar; and gives off 2 digital branches to the plantar surface of the great and second toes. Describe the Posterior Tibial Artery. It is a large vessel, extending from the bifurcation of the popliteal along the back of the tibia to the fossa below the inner malleolus, where it divides into the Internal and External Plantar. The posterior tibial nerve crosses it a short way below its origin and then lies close to its outer side for the rest of its course. Its branches are as follows— Peroneal, along the fibular side, giving off the anterior peroneal, muscular branches, and the nutrient artery of the fibula. Nutrient of the Tibia, the largest nutrient artery of bone. Muscular Bratiches, to the posterior muscles of the leg. Communicating, a branch to the peroneal artery. Internal Calcanean Branches, to the heel and sole of the foot. Describe the Internal Plantar. This artery is the smallest of the termi- nating branches of the posterior tibial, and passes along the inner side of the foot and great toe. Describe the External Plantar Artery. It sweeps across the plantar aspect of the foot in a curve, the convexity of which is directed outwards and forwards; and at the interval between the bases of the 1st and 2d metatarsal bones it inosculates with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis, forming the Plantar Arch, or the Stirrup Anastomosis. It gives off numerous muscular branches, and the— Posterior Perforating, 3 small branches passing through the 3 outer interos- seous spaces. 10* H