THE INTERNAL EAR. 221 hind the fovea hemispherica. It lodges the utricle, and presents a Macula Cribosa for the entrance of branches of the vestibular nerve. What are the Semicircular Canals ? They are three C-shaped bony tubes, each about ^ inch in diameter, situated above and behind the vestibule, into which they open by 5 apertures. Each canal lies at a right angle with the other two. The— Superior and Posteriorf Canals,—are each nearly an inch long, vertically placed, joined together posteriorly where they open into the vestibule by a common orifice.^ External Canal, g—is £ inch long, horizontally placed, and directed out- wards and backwards. Ampulla,—is a flask-shaped dilatation of each canal at one extremity, having a diameter of about j1^ inch. Fig. 109. ITwH Describe the Cochlea. The Cochlea is a bony tube, about inch long, tapering from -jL to inch in diameter, coiled around a central conical axis for 2yz turns, and resembling a snail shell in appearance. It measures about % inch in length and the same in breadth at the base. It is situated in front of the vestibule, its apex pointing forwards and outwards, and is separated from the carotid canal in front by a thin wall. Its— Modiolus, a—is the central axis, conical in shape, channeled by small canals for the passage of arteries and nerves, and by a central one, the Canalis Centralis Modioli. Its apex is within the last coil of the cochlea, and is ex- panded into a funnel-shaped lamella, the Infundibulum. Lamina Spiralis, b—is a thin, osseous plate, projecting from the modiolus half way across the spiral canal, and winding around the modiolus ter- minates near the apex in a hook-like or Hamular Process. Its deficiency in the last half turn of the cochlea forms the Helicotrema, a space in which the scalse vestibuli and tympani unite. (See below.) It consists of two laminae, 1, 2, between which pass the filaments of the cochlear nerve.10 From its free edge the structures composing the membranous cochlea pass to their attachment on the opposite wall of the cavity. (See Fig. hi.) Spiral Canal,—is the space between the modiolus and the outer wall of the cochlea. It makes 2]/2 turns,—from left to right in the right ear, from right to left in the left ear : and terminates in the Cupola, a cul-de-sac at the apex of the cochlea. It is divided, by the osseous lamina spiralis and