VISCERAL ANATOMY. Fig. 8o. 16G Each cartilage has 3 surfaces, 2 angles, a base and an apex. The— Describe the Thyroid Cartilage. The Thyroid or shield-like cartilage consists of two Alee or wings/ united in front at an acute angle, the highest portion of its front being called the Pomum Ad ami, Adam’s apple. Its— Inner Surface,—gives attachment to the true and false vocal cords, the epiglottis, thyro-arytenoid and thyro-epiglottidean muscles, and the thyro- Outer Surface,—affords attachment to the sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid and inferior constrictor mus- cles ; the first two being attached along its oblique ridge. Upper Border,—is curved irregularly, and gives at- tachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Lower Border,—gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane in the median line and on each side to the crico-thyroid muscle. Posterior Border of each wing ends above and below in Cornua (horns), and gives attachment to the stylo- and palato-pharyngeus muscles. Superior Cornu of each side affords attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. Inferior Cornu of each side articulates with the cricoid cartilage by a small oval facet. (See and Fig. 80.) Describe the Cricoid Cartilage. The Cricoid, or ring-like cartilage, is Fig. 8i. placed below the thyroid, with its narrow part to the front. It has on each side 2 Articular Facets, one on the upper margin posteriorly for the arytenoid cartilage, and one near the lower margin for the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its— Outer Borders,—give attachment to the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle, and the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. Upper Border,—affords attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane and the crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles. Lower Border,—is connected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Describe the Arytenoid Cartilages. The Arytenoid, or pitcher like cartilages, are 2 in number, pyramidal-shaped, and situated on the upper mar- gin of the cricoid cartilage posteriorly, closing in the back of the larynx. Anterior Surface,—gives attachment to the false vocal chord, and the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. Anterior Angle,—gives attachment to the true vocal chord and the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. Posterior Surface,—has attached to it the arytenoideus. epiglottic ligament.