of the falx cerebri. Fig. 5. THE ETHMOID BONE. 21 Muscles of Mastication, 3—the temporal, external and internal pterygoids. Superior constrictor, tensor palati, and laxator tyinpani, 3. THE ETHMOID BONE. Describe its General Characteristics. It is a spongy, light bone, de- pending from the ethmoidal notch of the frontal, and from between its orbital plates. It consists of a body and 2 lateral masses, and is named from the Greek word rjO[ioq, aythmos, a sieve. What are the Points on its Body ? The body<5 consists of a horizontal or cribriform plate, and a perpendicular plate, and presents the— Crista Galliy or cock’s comb, projecting up- wards, for the attachment of the anterior end Cribriform Plate,d on each side of the crista galli. It is concave for the olfactory bulbs,i and perforated for the transmission of the olfactory nerves, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and numerous small vessels. Perpendicular Plate,a assists to form the nasal septum, is usually inclined to one side, grooved for filaments of the olfactory nerves, and has attached to it the cartilage of the nose. Describe the Lateral Masses. They consist of a number of cellular cavities, and each one presents the following points, viz.— Ethmoid Cells, the anterior opening by the infundibulum into the middle meatus of the nose, the posterior into the superior meatus. Os Planum f or orbital plate, helps to form the inner wall of the orbit, and is notched superiorly to form with the frontal bone the two ethmoidal foramina. Unciform Process, descends to articulate with the inferior turbinated, and forms part of the inner wall of the antrum. Superior Turbinated Process,/ curves downwards and outwards. Middle Turbinated Process,g is larger and more curved than the superior. These processes bound the superior meatus of the nose, and are often called the superior and middle turbinated bones. Describe its articulations, development, and muscles. The ethmoid articulates with 15 bones, viz.—all those of the face except the malar, and the frontal and sphenoid of the cranium. It is developed by 3 centres, 1 for each lateral mass, and 1 for the body, ossification being completed about the 6th year. There are no ??iuscles attached to it.