105 THE ARTERIES. Middle Meningeal.8 Small Meningeal.9 Ptery go-palatine.15 Spheno-palatine or Nasal.14 Occipital,10 lies in the occipital groove of the temporal bone. Muscular. Inferior Meningeal. Cranial Branches, over Auricular. Arteria Princeps Cervicis.13 the occiput. Posterior Auricular,14 ascends under cover of the parotid gland. Stylo-mastoid. Auricular. Muscular. Glandular. Ascending Pharyngeal, lies on the rectus capitis anticus major. External Branches. Pharyngeal and Meningeal Branches. Te7nporal}h the smallest of the termini of the external carotid, begins in the parotid gland, crosses the zygomatic arch, and divides into anterior18 and posterior temporal.16 Transverse Facial.15 Middle Temporal.17 Anterior Auricular. Internal Maxillary,4 the other terminal branch of the external carotid,1 is divided into three portions, Maxillary,4 Pterygoid,5 and Spheno-maxil- lary,6 which respectively give off the following branches: (Fig. 56.) Deep Auricular, to the Deep Temporal, Alveolar.11 tragus and canal. ant. and posterior. Infra-orbital.12 Tympanic,7 entering Pterygoid Branches, Descending Palatine.13 the Glaserian fissure. to those muscles. Vidian.16 Masseteric, to the masseter muscle. Inferior Dental,10 divides Buccal, to the bucci- into Incisor and Mental. nator muscle. Describe the Internal Carotid Artery. It ascends in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae, and close to the tonsil, traverses the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and after piercing the dura mater by the anterior clinoid process, divides into its terminal branches. Its branches are the Tympanic, enters the tympanum from the carotid canal, and anastomoses on the membrana tympani with the tympanic branch of the internal max- illary, the stylo-mastoid, and the Vidian arteries. Arteria Receptaculi, numerous small vessels going to the walls of the sinuses, the Gasserian ganglion and the pituitary body; one of them, to the dura mater, is called the Anterior Meningeal. Ophthalmic, arises from the cavernous portion, enters the orbit through the optic foramen, terminating at the inner angle of the eye into the frontal and nasal branches. It gives off,— Lachrymal. Short Ciliary. Arteria Centralis Retinae. Anterior Ciliary. Muscular Branches. Supraorbital. Long Ciliary. Posterior Ethmoidal. Anterior Cerebral, joined to its fellow by the anterior communicating branch, about 2 lines long. Anterior Ethmoidal. Palpebral. Nasal. Frontal.