* MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER AND ARM. 85 Coccygeus,6 from the spine of the ischium and the lesser sacro-sciatic liga- ment,—into the margin of the coccyx and the side of the last sacral segment. Action, to support the coccyx, and close the outlet of the pelvis posteriorly. Nerve, 5th sacral, anterior division. Sphincter Vaginae (in the female), from the central tendon of the perineum, —into the corpora cavernosa and body of the clitoris. Represents the accel- erator urinae of the male. Erector Clitoridis (in the female), replaces the erector penis. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER AND ARM. Pectoralis Major, from the sternal one-half of the clavicle, by an aponeu- rosis from the front of the sternum as low as the 6th or 7th rib, the cartilages of all the true ribs, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique,—the fibres converge, cross and are inserted by a flat tendon into the external bicipital ridge of the humerus, having crossed the bicipital groove. Action, to draw the arm forwards and downwards; also to elevate the ribs in forced inspira- tion. Nerves, anterior thoracic. • . Pectoralis Minor, from the 3d, 4th, and 5th ribs, and the intercostal aponeu- rosis,—into the coracoid process of the scapula. Action, to depress the point of the shoulder, also to elevate the ribs in forced inspiration. Nerves, anterior thoracic. ( Subclavius,/Aw* the cartilage of the 1st rib,—into the under surface of the clavicle, in a groove about its middle 3d. Action, to draw the clavicle downwards. Nerve, a branch from the 5th and 6th cervical. Serratus Magnus, by 9 digitations frovi the 8 upper ribs (the 2d rib having 2) and from the intercostal aponeurosis,—into the whole length of the inner margin of the posterior border of the scapula. Action, to elevate the ribs in inspiration, also to raise the point of the shoulder. In lower animals the great sling-muscle, slinging the body between the upper extremities. Nerve, posterior thoracic. Deltoid, from the outer one-third of the anterior and superior surfaces of the clavicle, the outer margin and upper surface of the acromion, and the whole lower border of the spine of the scapula,—into a prominence on the outer side of the shaft of the humerus, about its middle. Action, to raise the arm. Nerve, circumflex. Subscapularis, from the inner two-thirds of the subscapular fossa,—into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Action, to rotate the head of the humerus inwards. Nerves, subscapular. (A Supra-spinatus, from the inner two-thirds of the supra-spinous fossa,—inte the upper facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Action, to sup- port the shoulder-joint, and to raise the arm. Ne>-ve, supra-scapular. 8