VISCERAL ANATOMY. 222 the membranous cochlea, into 2 Scalse,—the Scala Vestibuli6 and the Scala Tympanic [Fig. 111.] [A third scala is described by many authorities, the Scala Media P including the space occupied by the membranous cochlea. See Fig. 111.] Describe the Scala Vestibuli. It is the portion of the spiral canal lying above the lamina spiralis and the membranous cochlea; communicates with the vestibule below, and with the scala tympani above at the Helicotrema. It is filled with perilymph. What is the Scala Tympani ? It is the portion of the spiral canal lying below the lamina spiralis and the membranous cochlea, communicates with the aqueductus cochlea (see below), and with the scala vestibuli at the Heli- cotrema. It terminates inferiorly at the fenestra rotunda, and is filled with perilymph. What is meant by the Helicotrema ? It is a space at the apex of the cochlea, formed by the deficiency of the lamina spiralis in the last half turn of the same. In this space the two scalse are believed to open, thereby communicating with each other. What is the Aqueductus Cochleae ? A small canal which begins by a small orifice in the lower wall of the scala tytnpani, and runs in the inner wall of the jugular fossa, ending at the edge between the inferior and inner surfaces of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It transmits a vein from the cochlea to the jugular vein. Fig. no. What Parts are comprised in the Membranous Labyrinth? It consists of two membranous sacs, the Utricle1 and Saccule,2 which lie in the vestibule, together with the Membranous Sejfiicircular Canals,6 and the Membranous Cochlea.3, 5 The utricle and saccule com- municate with each other indirectly by a small canal contained in the aqueductus vestibuli. The saccule communicates with the membranous cochlea by the Canalis Re- unienSy4 and the membranous semicircular canals open into the utricle; so that the membranous labyrinth presents an uninterrupted channel for the endolymph which it contains. What is the Utricle ? It is a flattened, elliptical membranous sac, fastened to the inner wall of the vestibule in the fovea semi-elliptica. It is filled with endolymph, nearly surrounded by perilymph, and communicates with the saccule through the small tube in the aqueductus vestibuli. The membranous