205 THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. Capsule,—is transparent, elastic, thick anteriorly, inch pos- teriorly ; has a layer of flat cells between its anterior portion and the lens, which, after death, break down into a fluid, the Liquor Morgagni. Zonula of Zinn, or Suspensory Ligament,—connects the capsule with the ciliary body. It is formed by a splitting of the j, hyaloid membrane into two layers, one going in front of the lens, the other behind. It is shown exaggerated in the cut. Canal of Petit,—is a triangular space around the circumference of the lens, formed by the sepa- ration of the two portions of the suspensory ligament (shown inflated in the cut). Processus Zonula,—are small radiating folds on the anterior surface of the suspensory ligament, which are received be- tween th§ ciliary processes. Describe the Structure of the Crystalline Lens. It consists of flattened hexagonal fibres, united laterally into lamelke, by serrated edges, and curving around the borders of the organ. Its centre or Nucleus is unstratified, and denser than the surrounding portion or Cortex. It is unorganized, having no vessels or nerves, but receives its nutriment by imbibition from the uveal tract, and possibly from the other humors of the eye. What is the Vitreous Humor ? The Vitreous Humor or Hyaloid Body is an apparently structureless substance, of gelatinous consistence, consisting of water with a little albumen and salts, and containing cells, nuclei, and con- nective-tissue filaments. It has no vessels or nerves, and is situated in the posterior chamber of the eye, behind the lens, which it supports, as also the retina. The— Canal of Stilling, Canal of Cloquet, or LLyaloid Canal,—traverses the vit- reous humor antero-posteriorly, being the channel for the transmission in the foetus of the Hyaloid Artery to the membrana pupillaris. [See ante, p. 202.] Hyaloid Fossa,—a depression on the anterior surface of the vitreous, receiv- ing the posterior convexity of the lens. What is the Hyaloid Membrane ? It is a delicate capsule investing the vitreous, and supposed to send delicate septa into the substance of that humor. It divides anteriorly into two layers, which enclose the Canal of Petit and the Lens, forming the suspensory ligament of the latter, or Zonula of Zinn. [See above.] The foregoing is the view of most anatomists, but some assert that this membrane is identical with the internal limiting membrane of the retina, extending only to the ora serrata. [Ilenle, Iwanoff, etc.]