42 Fig. 22. ANATOMY. membrane. The Cotyloid Notch is a deficiency in its lower anterior margin, transmitting nutrient vessels to the joint; to the edges of the notch is attached the ligamentum teres, and it is bridged over by the transverse ligament, a continuation of the cotyloid ligament which surmounts the brim of the acetabulum. Obturator, or Thyroid Foramen,8 on the anterior surface between the pubes and ischium, large and oval in the male, small and triangular in the female; is closed by the obturator membrane, except above where the obturator nerves and vessels pass through it. Describe the Ilium. It is the superior part of the innominate bone, and presents the following points, viz.— Crest? along its upper border, having an outer and inner lip for muscular attachment, and ending in the superior spines. Anterior Superior Spine? to which is attached the sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris mus- cles, and.Poupart’s ligament. Anterior Inferior Spine? for the straight tendon of the rectus femoris. Notch, between the above-named spines, trans- mitting the external cutaneous nerve, and lodging some fibres of the sartorius. Posterior Superior'Spine,19 for the attachment of the erector spinae muscle, and the oblique part of the sacro-sciatic ligament. Posterior Inferior Spine,17 for the great sacro- sciatic ligament. Great Sacro-sciatic Notch,16 below the last-named spine, transmits the great sciatic, superior gluteal, and pudic nerves, the pyriformis muscle, and the sciatic, pudic, and gluteal vessels, and a nerve supplying the obturator externus muscle. Curved Lines,21 superior middle and inferior, on the outer surface of the bone, from the spaces between which arise the glutei muscles. Groove, above the acetabulum, for the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris muscle. Linea Ilio-pectinea, in part; on the inner surface, above which is a smooth surface, the Venter of the Ilhim. Aurictdar Surface,18 rough, articulates with the sacrum. Describe the Ischium. It is the lowermost portion of the innominate bone, and presents the following points, viz.— Body, forms two-fifths of the acetabulum, and the external margin of the