186 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Inferior Pudendal,—branch of the Small Sciatic nerve. Genital,—branch of the Genito-crural nerve. Describe the Spermatic Cord. It extends from the internal abdominal ring to the globus minor of the epididymis, and is about 4 inches long. It consists of the following-named 10 structures, bound together by areolar tissue and invested by its coverings. These structures are the— Vas Deferens. 3 Fig. 91. Spermatic A rtery.1 Cremasteric A rtery. Artery of the Vas DeferensS Spermatic Veins. Spermatic Plexus of Nerves. Branch of the Ilio inguinal Nerve. Branch of the Genito-crural Nerve. Vasculum Aberrans. Lymphatics. What is the Pampiniform Plexus ? A venous plexus formed by the spermatic veins and branches from the epididymis. It forms the chief mass of the spermatic cord, and unites into a single trunk, which on the right side empties into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the left renal vein. Describe the Vesiculae Seminales. They are two sacculated, membra- nous pouches, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and are filled by the back- ing up of that fluid from the vasa deferentia. They are about 2]/2 inches in length, and are situated between the base of the bladder and the rectum. Their— Ejaculatory Ducts,—one on each side, are formed by the junction of the vasa deferentia with the ducts of the vesiculae seminales. They are about 3^ inch in length, and terminate in the prostatic portion of the urethra, by orifices on the sides of the veru montanum. Describe the Descent of the Testes. In early foetal life the testes are situated in the abdominal cavity, just below and in front of the kidneys, and are each connected to the dartos of the scrotum and the tissues about the in- guinal canal by the 3 processes of a cord named the Gubernaculum Testis, which is supposed to gradually shorten itself and draw the testis down. At the beginning of the 5th month the descent begins; during the 7th month the testicle enters the inguinal canal, and ordinarily arrives in the scrotum by the end of the 8th month. A process of peritoneum is supposed to be carried down in front of the testis; which process, by obliteration of the canal, be- comes a separate structure, the Tunica Vaginalis. The structures of the inguinal canal are also supposed to be brought down with the testicle, and to constitute some of its coverings.