154 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Describe the 5 Ligaments of the Liver. Four are folds of peritoneum ; one, the round ligament, is the obliterated umbilical vein and ductus venosus of the foetus. The— Suspensory or Falciform Ligament, j—called also the Broad and the Lon- gitudinal Ligament,—is a sickle-shaped double fold reflected over the round ligament, and is attached to the sheath of the right rectus muscle as low as the umbilicus, and to the diaphragm. Coronary Ligament,ff—is a double fold, containing firm areolar tissue in its interspace, and extending from the posterior border of the liver to the diaphragm. Lateral Ligaments, 2,—are the triangular extremities of the coronary ligament. Round Ligament/■—ascends in the free margin of the suspensory ligament from the umbilicus to the longitudinal fissure, in which it is continued to the vena cava. Describe the 5 Hepatic Fissures. They are all situated on its under surface, and separate the 5 lobes, one from another. They are the— Longitudinal Fissuref—its anterior two-thirds, in front of the transverse fissure, is called the Umbilical Fissure, from containing the umbilical vein ; its posterior one-third is the Fissure of the Ductus Venosus, lodg- ing the slender cord which represents that foetal vessel. Transverse Fissure,o—about 2 inches long, running from the longi- tudinal towards the right; and transmit the portal vein, hepatic artery, bile-duct, lymphatics and nerves, surrounded by the Capsule of Glisson. Fissure of the Gall bladdery—on the right of the longitudinal fissure, and nearly parallel with it, extending from the anterior border, backwards to near the right end of the transverse fissure. Fissure for the Vena Cava,—extends inwards from the posterior border, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus; and gives exit to the hepatic veins which here join the vena cava. This fissure is occasionally a complete foramen. Describe the 5 Hepatic Lobes. Three are mere lobules, formed from che right lobe by the smaller fissures. The— Right Lobe*—is much the largest, and presents the three small fissures and two depressions, one anteriorly for the colon, the other posteriorly for the kidney. Left Lobep—is divided from the right by the longitudinal fissure, and rests upon the stomach. Lobulus Quadratus,x—in front of the transverse fissure, and between the umbilical fissure and that for the gall bladder.