138 ANATOMY. its motor root from the facial by the chorda tympani, its sympathetic root from the facial plexus. Its branches are distributed to the submaxillary gland, its duct, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. What Nerves appear on removing the Gasserian Ganglion ? The three Petrosal branches of the 7th nerve (see page 131), lying on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and communicating with the sympathetic system as follows, viz., the— Large Superficial Petrosalp (Great Petrosal),—a branch of the 7th nerve, from its geniculate ganglion,2 (intu- mescentia gangliformis), which passes through the hiatus Fallopii, and thence through the foramen lacerum medium to the Vidian canal, where it joins the large deep petrosal from the carotid plexus, to form the Vidian nerve, as which it goes to Meckel’s ganglion (page 137), forming its motor root. Small Supeyficial Petrosal,4 (Small Pe- trosal), immediately external to the preceding, going from the geniculate ganglion of the 7th to the otic gan- glion, and lying directly over the tensor tympani muscle. External Superficial Petrosal,® (External Petrosal),—going from the 7th to the sympathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery.6 Describe the Cervical Ganglia. They are 3 in number on each side, of which the superior is the largest, communicate with each other, and are as fol- lows, viz.— Superior Cervical Ganglion, lies behind the carotid sheath opposite the 2d and 3d cervical vertebras. Its branches are distributed to the carotid, cavernous, and pharyngeal plexuses, and one of its internal branches is the superior cardiac nerve going to the cardiac plexus. Middle Cervical Ganglion, on the superior thyroid artery, opposite the 5th cervical vertebra, and gives off the middle cardiac nerve to the cardiac plexus, also communicating branches. Inferior Cervical Ganglion, on the superior intercostal artery, between the neck of the 1st rib and the transverse process of the 7th cervical vertebra. It gives off several communicating branches and the inferior cardiac nerve to the cardiac plexus.