THE CORNEA. 199 Sulcus,—a slight circular depression around the junction of the sclerotic with the cornea. Arteries,—from the Ciliary, are few and in a coarse net work, uniting at wide intervals, but forming, however, the—■ Posterior Vascular Zone, or Zone of Zinn,—an arterial zone around the optic nerve entrance, formed by twigs of the short ciliary going to the opt?t nerve to anastomose with branches of the central artery of the retina, forming the only connection between the ciliary and retinal systems. Anterior Vascular Zone,—around the cornea, formed by sub conjunctival branches of anterior ciliary vessels. Nerves,—none have been yet found in the sclerotic. What is the Cornea ? The Cornea, or horny body, is the anterior trans- parent projecting portion of the external tunic of the eyeball, forming about one-sixth thereof. It is set into the sclerotic as a watch-crystal into its case, is of ellipsoidal base, the transverse diameter being the longest, and slightly more convex vertically than horizontally. Its— Thickness,—is inch at centre, inch at periphery. Index of Refraction,—1.342. Vessels,—none, except the peripheral zone, inch wide, formed of capil- lary loops from Episcleral branches of the anterior ciliary, which termi- nate at its circumference ; so that it is practically a non-vascular structure. Nerves,—are numerous; 20 or 30 twigs from the Ciliary nerves form an intricate plexus throughout its laminated substance. Describe the Structure of the Cornea. It consists of five layers,—cen- trally the true corneal tissue, having in front an anterior elastic lamina and the conjunctival epithelium; behind, a posterior elastic lamina and the epithelial lining of the aqueous chamber. The— Layer of Conjunctival Epithelium inch thick, consists of two or three layers of transparent nucleated cells. Anterior Elastic La7nina, also named the Anterior Limiting Layer, the Membrane of Bowman or Membrane of Reichert,—is to * inch thick, a firm, elastic and transparent homogeneous membrane, consisting of closely-interwoven fibrils, similar to those in the corneal tissue proper. True Corneal Tissue,—inch thick, a transparent, fibrous structure, formed of five connective-tissue fibrillse, united in bundles, and these in laminae, between which is a semi-fluid cement, filled with Corneal Corpuscles and wandering cells. Posterior Elastic Lamina, Membrane of Descemet, or Demours, is, like the anterior elastic lamina, a structureless basement membrane, of extreme thinness, resisting the action of water, alcohol or acids; very brittle, ex-