76 ANATOMY. Aryteno-epiglottideus Superior, from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage,— into the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Action, to constrict the superior laryn- geal aperture. Nerue, recurrent laryngeal. Aryteno-epiglottideus Inferior, from the arytenoid cartilage anteriorly,—into the sacculus laryngis and the margin of the epiglottis. Action, to compress the sacculus laryngis. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Longissimus Dor si. Transversalis Colli. Trachelo-mastoid. Internal (4). Spinalis Dorsi. Spinalis Colli. Biventer Cervicis. Complexus. First layer (2)—Trapezius. Latissimus Dorsi. Second layer (3)—Levator Anguli Scapulce. Rhomboideus Major and Minor. Third layer (3)—Serratus Posti' cus Superior. Serratus Posti'cus Inferior. Splenitis Capitis et Colli. Fourth layer (11)—in 4 sets, viz.— Lumbar (1)—Erector Spince. External (3). Middle (3). Sacro-lumbalis. Musctilus Accessorius ad Sacro-lumbalem. Cervicalis Ascendens. Fifth layer (12)—6 having the word spinal in them, viz.— Semi-spinalis Dorsi. Inter-transversales. Setni-spinalis Colli. Rectus Capitis Posti'cus Major. Multifdus Spince. Rectus Capitis Posti'cus Minor. Rotatores Spince. Obliquus Capitis Superior. Sufra-spinales. Obliquus Capitis Inferior. Inter-spinales. Extensor Coccygis. Trapezius,1 frotn the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, the ligamentum nuchae,2 the spinous processes of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, and the supra-spinous ligjiment,—into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle, the superior margin of the acromion process, the whole length of the superior border of the spine of the scapula,3 and a tubercle at its inner extremity. Action, to draw the head backwards. Nerves, spinal accessory, cervical plexus. Ligamentum Nuchjr, from the external occipital protuberance,—to the spines of the cervical vertebrae, from the 2d to the 7th inclusive. Latissimus Dorsi,4 by an aponeurosis from the spines of the 6 lower dorsal and the lumbar and sacral vertebrae, the supra-spinous ligament, the crest of the ilium, and the 3 or 4 lower ribs,—into the bicipital groove of the humerus. Action, the cursor ani muscle, drawing the arm downwards and backwards; or raising the lower ribs and drawing the trunk forwards. Nerves^ the subscapular.