ANATOMY. 106 Middle Cerebral, in the fissure of Sylvius; divides into 3 branches, anterior, median, and posterior. Anterior Choroid, to the choroid plexus, corpus fimbriatum, etc. Posterior Communicating, anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar. What is the Circle of Willis? An anastomosis at the base of the brain, between the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, to equalize the cerebral circulation. The 2 Vertebral arteries join to form the Basilar, which ends in 2 Posterior Cerebral. These are connected with the Internal Carotid by the 2 Posterior Communicating. The circle is completed by the connection of the 2 Anterior Cerebral branches of the internal carotid through the short Anterior Communicating artery. Describe the Subclavian. It arises on the right side from the innominate, on the left side from the arch of the aorta, Fig. 57. and is divided into 3 portions by the scalenus anticus, which crosses it just ex- ternal to the origin of the thyroid axis, viz.—the parts internal, behind, and ex- ternal to that muscle. At the outer border of the 1st rib, the subclavian becomes the axillary artery. Its upper border is a little above the clavicle, and it is separated from the subclavian vein by the scalenus anticus at its origin from the first rib. Its branches are all given off from its first portion, ex- cept the Superior Intercostal, which on the right side arises from the second por- tion. Vertebral,6 passing up the neck, through the foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of six cervical vertebrae, and enters the skull by the foramen magnum, where it joins its fellow to form the Basilar Artery. Its branches are— Lateral Spinal Branches. Anterior Spinal. Muscular Branches. Posterior Spinal. Posterior Meningeal. Inferior Cqrebellar. I'he Basilar, formed by the junction of the vertebrals, gives off on each side a transverse, anterior, and superior cerebellar, and ends in the two posterior cerebral. (See Circle of Willis, above.) 1 r\