197 THE EYE. THE EYE. [For an osteological description of the Orbit, see page 29.] What is the Visual Apparatus ? It comprises the eyeballs and their appendages, which collect the luminous impressions,—and the optic nerves, which convey these impressions to the brain. Describe the Eyeball. It is a spherical organ, situated in the anterior part of the orbital cavity, on a cushion of connective tissue and fat, where it is retained by its muscles, the optic nerve, the conjunctiva, etc., and protected in front by the eyelids and eyebrows. Projecting from its anterior surface is the segment of a smaller, transparent sphere, the Cornea. The eyeball has the following— Diameters,—Antero-posterior, about .95 inch,—Transverse, .92 inch,— Vertical, .90 inch,—in the adult. Anterior Pole,—is the geometric centre of the cornea. Posterior Pole,—is the geometric centre of the fundus. Optic Axis,—is an imaginary straight line connecting the poles. Visual Axis,—an imaginary straight line from the yellow spot to the object, through the nodal point. It cuts the cornea above the optic axis, at an angle therewith of 30 to 70, the Visual Angle. Nodal Point,—the centre of curvature of the refracting surfaces. Equatorial Plane,—an imaginary plane through the centre of the eyeball, perpendicular to the axis, dividing the ball or globe into the anterior and posterior hemispheres. The Equator is the line where this plane cuts the surface of the globe. Meridional Planes,—are imaginary planes coinciding with the axis of the eyeball. Meridians are the lines where these planes intersect the surface of the globe. Describe the Tunica Vaginalis Oculi. It is a fibrous capsule, sur- rounding the eyeball and the intra-orbital portion of the optic nerve ; arising from the optic foramen and being lost anteriorly on the sclerotic. It consists of two layers (parietal and visceral) enclosing a lymph-space which communi- cates with the lymph-space between the sclerotic and choroid coats. The tendons of the ocular muscles pierce it. The— Capsule of Bonnet,—is the portion of tunica vaginalis posterior to the point where the tendons pass through it. This part is loosely attached to the eyeball, which rotates in it. Capsule of Tenon,—is the portion of the tunica vaginalis anterior to the passage of the tendons. [The whole capsule or Tunica Vaginalis is by many anatomists named the Capsule of Tenon.]