THE BRAIN. 123 What are the parts above-named ? Some, as the corpus striatum, optio thalamus, etc., have been described already; the others are— Corpus Callosum, the great transverse commissure, arching backwards to become continuous with the fornix, reflected below, forming the Peduncles at the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius; and marked above by a depres- sion, the Raphe, and longitudinal elevations, the Stria; Longitudinales or Nerves of Lancisi. Tcenia Semicircular is, consists of commissural fibres between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. Choroid Plexus of Veins, is the margin of a fold of pia mater which enters at the transverse fissure, passes up the descending cornu, passes through the foramen of Monroe, and as the Velum Interpositum spreads out over the roof of the 3d ventricle. Corpus Fimbriatum, or Tcenia Hippocampi, is a white band, the edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix. Fornix, is a commissure situated beneath the corpus callosum, but continuous with it posteriorly, the Septum Lucidum separating them in front. It is of triangular form with the apex in front. Its Anterior Crura curve down- wards to the base of the brain, are there reflected, forming the Corpora Albicantia, and end in the optic thalami. Its Posterior Crura pass down the descending horns of the lateral ventricles, as the Hippocampi Majores. The Lyra is a series of markings on its under surface. Septum Lucidum, consists of 2 layers of white and gray matter, lined by epithelium; is placed vertically between the lateral ventricles, from the raphe of the corpus callosum above to the fornix below. The cavity in its centre is the 5th ventricle. Describe the Cornua of the Lateral Ventricles. The Anterior Cornu curves over the anterior end of the corpus striatum into the anterior lobe. The Posterior Cormt curves downwards and inwards in the occipital lobe, and contains a smooth eminence, the LLippoca??ipus Minor. The Middle Cornu descends into the middle lobe to the transverse fissure at the base of the brain, curving backwards, outwards, downwards, forwards, and inwards (B. O. D. F. I.). On its floor are the following:— Hippocanipus Major, the doubled-in surface of the gyrus fornicatus. Pes Hippocampi, rounded eminences at the end of the hippocampus. Pes Accessorius, or Eminentia Collateralis, between the hippocampi, at the junction of the middle and posterior cornua. Corpus Fimbriatum, a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix. Choroid Plexus of Veins, a process of pia mater, already described. Fascia Dentata, the gray serrated edge of the middle lobe. Transverse Fissure, at the extremity of the cornu, extending to the median 11*