ANATOMY. 140 Mention some other Plexuses of the Sympathetic system. They are very numerous; besides those already mentioned, the most important are the following :— Tympanic Plexus,—described under Nerves of the Tympanum. Meningeal Plexus, on the middle meningeal artery. Facial Plexus, surrounding the facial artery. Cardiac Plexuses, the deep in front of the bifurcation of the trachea, the superficial in front of the right pulmonary artery; the first named lies behind the arch of the aorta, the latter beneath it. Coronary Plexuses, anterior and posterior, accompanying respectively the left and right coronary arteries. Aortic Plexus, on the sides and front of the aorta between the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Hypogastric Plexus, on and between the common iliac arteries; supplying the viscera of the pelvic cavity. Inferior Hypogastric or Pelvic Plexuses, two in number, one on each side of the rectum and bladder. Their branches are the— Inferior Hemorrhoidal Plexus. Small Cavernous Nerve. Vesical and Prostatic Plexuses. Large Cavernous Nerve. Vaginal Plexus. Uterine Nerve. What is the Vidian Nerve ? It has generally been described as a branch of the spheno-palatine (Meckel’s) ganglion (see p. 137), running backwards through the Vidian canal, and dividing into a Petrosal Branch to the Facial nerve, and a Carotid Branch to the carotid plexus of the Sympathetic. It is now, however, more correctly described as a short nerve of communication, between the Facial and the Sympathetic on the one hand, and the Spheno- palatine Ganglion on the other, supplying that ganglion with its motor and vaso-motor roots. It is formed by the junction of the— Large Superficial Petrosal, Br. of the Facial (p. 138), with the— Large Deep Petrosal, Br. of the Carotid Plexus (p. 140), which occurs in the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum medium (p. 35). It then enters the Vidian Canal (p. 20), in the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, pass- ing through which to finally join the posterior part of the spheno-palatine gan- glion (p. 137). Some filaments, the— Upper Posterior Nasal Branches,—are apparently given off from the Vidian in the canal, to the septum and roof of the nose; but they are really branches from the ganglion, bound up in the same sheath with the Vidian nerve.