THE SPINAL NERVES. 133 THE SPINAL NERVES. Describe the Spinal Nerves. There are 31 pairs of spinal nerves, of which the cervical number 8, the dorsal 12, the lumbar 5, the sacral 5, and the coc- cygeal 1. The 1st cervical escapes above the 1st vertebra, each of the others below the corresponding vertebra through the intervertebral foramina. Each nerve arises by 2 roofs, an anterior motor root, and a posterior sensory one, the latter having a ganglion on it. These unite, and the nerve then divides into 2 branches, both having motor and sensory fibres. The posterior branches are small and generally unimportant; they supply the muscles and integument of the back. The anterior branches supply the neck, front, and sides of the trunk, and the extremities, uniting in various regions to form plexuses from which important nerve-trunks originate. How is the Cervical Plexus formed and distributed ? It is formed by the anterior branches of the first 4 cervical nerves, and rests on the levator anguli scapulae and scalenus medius muscles. Its branches (10) comprise 4 superficial to the integument of the head and neck, and the following deep branches, viz.— Phrenic. Communicans Noni. 2 Muscular. 2 Communicating. Describe the Phrenic Nerve. It arises by 3 heads from the 3d, 4th, and 5th cervical, descends across the front of the scalenus anticus, crossing the sub- clavian and internal mammary arteries in the middle mediastinum, and is dis- tributed to the inferior surface of the diaphragm. It is often called the Inter- nal Respiratory Nerve of Bell. It sends filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and communicates with the plexuses of the sympathetic in the abdo- men. Describe the formation and distribution of the Brachial Plexus. It is formed by the union of the 4 lower cervical nerves and the 1st dorsal. The 5th, 6th, and 7th unite into one trunk externally to the scalenus medius, as also do the 8th cervical and 1st dorsal behind the same muscle. Below the line of the clavicle both these trunks bifurcate ; the two adjacent branches unite be- hind the axillary artery making the. Posterior Cord, and the remaining 2 form the Outer and Inner Cords, referred to the artery. Each of these cords bifur- cates, but the 2 adjacent branches of the outer and inner cords unite over the artery, to form the Median Nerve, leaving 4 other branches, the Ulnar, Mus- culo-cutaneous, Musculospinal, and Circumflex Nerves, the last 2 being de- rived from the posterior cord. The branches of the brachial plexus are as follows, viz.— Above the clavicle are given off 4, the— Communicating, completing the phrenic nerve. Muscular, to the longus colli, scaleni, rhomboidei, and subclavius muscles. 12