ANATOMY. 52 Tubercle,e anteriorly on the head, between the tuberosities, for the insertion of the ligamentum patellae. Popliteal Notch, posteriorly between the tuberosities, affords attachment to the posterior crucial ligament. Groove, on the inner tuberosity posteriorly, for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. Facet, on the outer tuberosity posteriorly and looking downwards, for articulation with the head of the fibula. Popliteal Line, obliquely across the upper part of the shaft posteriorly, affords attachment to the fascia of the popliteus, and parts of the soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus muscles. Nutrient Canal, the largest in the skeleton, opens just below the popliteal line, its orifice looking upwards. Shaft & has 3 sharp ridges,—1 in front, the Crest or Shin,/ and 1 on either side, to the external of which is attached the interosseous membrane. I stj II aM Lower Extremity,g is smaller than the upper, grooved posteriorly for the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis; externally has a rough triangular depression for articulation with the fibula, and for the attach- ment of the inferior interosseous ligament. Its in- ferior surface is concave and smooth for articulation with the upper surface of the astragalus. Lntemal Malleolusf projects downwards from the in- ternal side of the lower extremity. It articulates with the astragalus, is grooved posteriorly for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles, and affords attachment to the in- ternal lateral ligament. Describe the Fibula. It is a long slender bone, placed nearly parallel with the tibia on the outer side of the leg. It is also called the peroneous, or peroneal bone. Headf articulates with the external tuberosity of the tibia by a flat facet. Externally it has a prominence for the attachment of the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Styloid Process, projects upwards from the head posteriorly, and gives inser- tion to the tendon of the biceps muscle, and the short external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Shaft i is triangular and twisted on itself, having 3 marked ridges, the