102 ANATOMY. Semilunar Valves, guard the aortic orifice, and are larger and stronger than those on the right side. Sinus Aortici, or sinus of Valsalva, a pouch between each valve and the beginning of the aorta. Columnar Carnecey are smaller and more numerous than on the right side; the Musculi Papillares are but two in number. Describe the Structure of the Heart. The muscular fibres take origin from the four fibrous rings at the auriculo-ventricular and aortic openings. The fibres of the auricles are arranged in two layers, a superficial and a deep one, the latter having looped fibres and annular fibres. In the ventricles the fibres are superficial and deep, the latter being arranged circularly, the former spirally, coiling inwards at the apex of the heart into a whorl-like form, the vortex. THE ARTERIES. What are the Arteries ? Cylindrical vessels which carry arterial blood to the body from the heart. Those going to the lungs with the returning veins, form the Lesser or Pulmonic Circulation. The aorta with its branches and the returning veins, constitute the Greater or Systemic Circulation. The arteries anastomose or communicate freely with each other everywhere throughout the body, permitting the establishment of collateral circulations. Describe the Structure of the Arteries. They are dense, very elastic, preserving their cylindrical form, and are composed of 3 coats, an Internal or serous; a Middle, which is of muscular and elastic tissue; and an External, of connective tissue. They are generally included in a fibro-areolar invest- ment, the Sheath, which also encloses the accompanying veins. The larger arteries are nourished by the Vasa Vasorum, blood-vessels which ramify in the external and middle coats; and are supplied with nerves, the Vaso-motor, derived from both the sympathetic and cerebro-spinal systems, and forming intricate plexuses on the larger trunks. What are the Capillaries ? Minute vessels forming a network throughout the tissues of the body between the terminating arteries and the commencing veins. Their average diameter is about the of an inch, and their walls consist of a transparent homogeneous membrane continuous with the innermost layer of the arterial and venous walls. [In the following pages, main branches are in italics, sub-branches in Roman.] Describe the Aorta. It is the main trunk of the systemic arteries, com- mencing at the aortic opening of the left ventricle of the heart, arching back- wards over the roof of the left lung into the thorax, where it descends on the left of the spinal column, and after passing through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, it terminates in the right and left common iliac arteries opposite