THE ARTICULATIONS. 57 Fig. 30. 2 Lateral', from the jugular processes of the occipital bone to the bases of the transverse processes of the atlas. 2 Capsular,d around the articular surfaces, lined by synovial membrane. Describe the Occipito-axoid Articulation. Formed by the occipital bone and the odontoid process of the axis, which do not articulate with each other strictly, but are connected by 4 ligaments. Occipito-axoid1 (Apparatus Ligamentosus Colli), a continuation of the posterior common spinal ligament to the basilar process of the occipital bone. 2 Lateral Occipito-odontoidh (Check Ligaments), from the head of the odontoid process to the sides of the occipital condyles. Vertical Occipito-odontoid (Ligamentu?n Suspensorium), from the anterior margin of the foramen magnum to the odontoid apex. Describe the Atlo-axoid Articulation. It is a double arthrodia between the articular processes, a double diarthrosis rotatorius between the atlas and the odontoid process, and has 6 ligaments, and 4 synovial membranes. 2 Anterior and 1 Posterior Atlo-axoid, continuations of the anterior and pos- terior common spinal ligaments. 2 Capsular, surrounding the articular surfaces, each lined by a synovial membrane. Transverse, or Cruciform Ligament, divides the spinal foramen of the atlas into two portions, stretching across between the tubercles on the inner sides of the articular processes. It holds the odontoid process in place, having a synovial membrane interposed. Another synovial membrane is situated between the process and the anterior arch. The transverse liga- ment sends two vertical slips, one upwards, the other downwards, from which it is named the Cruciform Ligament. Describe the Temporo-maxillary Articulation. A double arthrodia between the condyle of the lower jaw and the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. It has 2 synovial membranes with an inter-articular fibro- cartilage between them, and 4 ligaments, viz.— External Lateral, from the tubercle of the zygoma to the outer side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. Internal Lateral,d from the spine of the sphenoid to the margin of the inferior dental fora- men. Stylo-maxillary,/ from the sty- loid process of the temporal bone to the angle of the in- ferior maxillary.