90 ANATOMY. FASCIAE OF THE HAND. Anterior Annular Ligament, from the pisiform and unciform bones,—t& the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium. It is pierced by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and beneath it pass the tendons of the superficial and deep flexors and the flexor longus pollicis, also the median nerve. It is continuous with the palmar fascia and the fascia of the forearm. Posterior Annular Ligament,^ from the ulna, cuneiform, and pisiform bones and the palmar fascia,—to the margin of the radius and the ridges on its posterior surface. It has 6 canals for the passage of the extensor tendons, each lined by a synovial membrane. It is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. Palmar Fascia, ensheathes the muscles of the hand, and divides into slips for the four fingers, each slip dividing and forming tendinous arches for the passage of the flexor tendons. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Abductor Pollicis,11 from the ridge of the trapezium and annular ligament,— into the radial side of the base of the 1st phalanx of the thumb. Action, to draw the thumb from the median line. Ne'rve, median. Opponens Pollicis, from the palmar surface of the trapezium and annular ligament,—into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, for its whole length. Action, as a flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Nerve, median. Flexor Brevis Pollicis,12 from the trapezium, annular ligament, trapezoid, os- magnum, base of the 3d metacarpal, and the sheath of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis,—into both sides of the base of the 1st phalanx of the thumb, by two tendons, each of which has a sesamoid bone in it. Action, to flex the thumb. Nerves, median and ulnar. Adductor Pollicis, from the whole palmar surface of the 3d metacarpal bone, —into the ulnar side of the base of the 1st phalanx of the thumb, and the internal sesamoid bone. Action, to draw the thumb towards the median line. Nerve, ulnar. Thenar Eminence, or ball of the thumb, is formed by the above-named 4 muscles. The following first 4 form the Hypo-thenar Eminence. Palmaris Brevis,10 from the annular ligament and palmar fascia,—into the skin on the inner border of the palm of the hand. Action, to corrugate the skin of the hand. Nerve, ulnar. Abductor Minimi Digiti, from the pisiform bone and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris,—into the ulnar side of the base of the 1st phalanx of the little finger. Action, as named. Ne'f've, ulnar.