ANATOMY. 80 Rotatores Spinae (i i), from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the 2d to the 12th inclusive,—each into the lamina of the next dorsal vertebrae above. Action, to rotate the spinal column. Nerves, branches of the dorsal. Supra-spinales, lie on the spinous processes in the cervical region. Nerves, branches of the cervical. Inter-spinales placed in pairs between the spines of contiguous vertebrae, 6 pairs in the cervical region, 3 in the dorsal, 4, sometimes 6, in the lumbar. Nerves, posterior spinal branches. Inter-transversales,18 placed between the transverse processes of contigu- ous vertebrae, 7 in the cervical region, 12 in the dorsal, and 4 in the lumbar. Nerves, posterior spinal branches. Rectus Capitis PostPcus Major,13 from the spine of the axis,—into the infe- rior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface below. Action, to rotate the head. Nerves, sub- and great occipital. Rectus Capitis PostPcus Minor,12 from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas,—into a rough surface between the foramen magnum and the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. Action, to draw the head back- wards. Names, sub- and great occipital. Obliquus Capitis Inferior,15 from the spinous process of the axis,—almost horizontally to the transverse process of the atlas. Action, to rotate the atlas and cranium. Neimcs, sub- and great occipital. Obliquus Capitis Superior,14 from the transverse process of the atlas;— upwards and inwards into the occipital bone between the curved lines. Action, draws the head backwards. Nerves, sub- and great occipital. Extensor Coccygis, from the last bone of the sacrum or first of the coccyx,— into the lower part of the coccyx, posteriorly. Action, as named. Nerves, posterior sacral branches. MUSCLES OF TIIE ABDOMEN. External Oblique,12 from 8 lower ribs by 8 fleshy digitations,—into the an- terior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and by a broad aponeu- rosis,13 into the ensiform cartilage, linea alba, symphysis, and spine of the pubes, and the pectineal line. Its aponeurosis is continuous with that of the pectoralis major above, and below it forms Poupart’s14 and Gimbernat’s ligaments, and by the separation of its fibres, the external abdominal ring.15 Action, to compress the viscera, and flex the thorax on the pelvis, and vice versa. ATerves, lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal. Internal Oblique,18 froi?i the lumbar fascia, the anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and the outer half of Poupart’s liga-