146 VISCERAL ANATOMY. What Nerves are distributed to the Tongue ? The— Gustatory Branch of the 5th,—to the mucous membrane of the sides and anterior two-thirds of the tongue, endowing it with general sensibility. Chorda Tympani Branch of the yth,—joins the gustatory, and is distributed to the same region, being the nerve of taste for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. Lingual Branches of the qth or Glosso-pharyngeal,—to the mucous membrane of the base and sides of the tongue, being the nerve of taste for its poste- rior third. Hypoglossal, or 12th,—to the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the tongue, being its nerve of motion. Superior Laryngeal Branch of the 10th or Pneumogastric,—sends a few fibres to the base of the tongue from its internal branch. What special Anatomical Features are presented by the Mouth ? They are as follows, viz.—the— Hamular Process of the Sphenoid Bone,—may be felt behind the last upper molar tooth ; also the Internal Pterygoid Plate, and part of the Pterygoid Fossa. Coronoid Process,— of the lower jaw, its anterior border. Posterior Palatine Artery,—at inner side of the last upper molar tooth, and in front of the hamular process. Gustatory Nerve,—very near the last lower molar tooth. Pterygo-maxillary Ligament,—felt as a fold posteriorly to the last lower molar tooth. THE PHARYNX. Describe the Pharynx. It is a conical, musculo-membranous bag, about 4^4 inches long, hung base up from the basilar process of the occipital bone, and extending to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage posteriorly, or the 5th cervical vertebra, where it becomes continuous with the oesophagus.5 It forms the part of the alimentary canal which lies behind the mouth, being incomplete in front. What are its Relations ? It is connected with— Posteriorly,—the longus colli and recti capitis antici muscles, and by loose areolar tissue to the first 5 cervical vertebrae. Laterally,—the styloid processes and their muscles, the pterygoid muscles, the internal carotid arteries, .the internal jugular vein, the 8th, 9th, and the sympathetic nerves. Near its Apex,—the lobes of the thyroid gland, the common carotid and lingual arteries, the sterno-hyoid muscle, and the lingual nerves.