167 THE LARYNX. Posterior Angle,—gives attachment to the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and posticus muscles. Internal Surfaces of each look towards each other. Base,—has a facet for articulation with the cricoid. Apex,—articulates with the corniculum laryngis. What are the Cornicula Laryngis ? They are 2 small cartilaginous nodules attached to the apices of the arytenoid cartilages, and are also called the Cartilages of Santorini. To them are attached the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. What are the Cuneiform Cartilages ? The Cuneiform, or Cartilages of IVrisberg, are 2 rods of yellow elastic cartilage contained in the free bor- ders of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Describe the Epiglottis. The Epiglottis is a cartilaginous lid for the larynx. It is leaf-shaped, situated behind the base of the tongue, and attached by its apex to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, just below the median notch. Its— Base,—is free, and curves over the base of the tongue. Apex,—is connected to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage by the thyro-epiglottidean ligament. Anterior Surface,—is attached to the hyoid bone by the hyo-epiglottic liga- ment, and to the tongue by 3 glosso-epiglottidean folds. Posterior Surface,—covers the superior aperture of the larynx when food passes through the pharynx. Lateral Margins,—are connected to the arytenoid cartilages by the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. Name the Ligaments of the Larynx. They are 19 in number,—3 ex- trinsic ligaments, connecting the larynx to the hyoid bone; and 16 intrinsic, binding its several cartilages together, viz.— Extrinsic Ligaments (3), are the— Thyro-hyoid Membrane, bounded laterally by— 2 Lateral Thyro-hyoid Ligaments, each contain a nodule of cartilage, the Cartilago Triticea. Intrinsic Ligaments (16) are the— Crico-thyroid Membrane. 2 Crico-thyroid Capsular Ligaments. 2 Crico-arytenoid Ligaments. 2 Crico-arytenoid Capsular Ligaments. 2 Superior Thyro-arytenoid (situated in the false vocal chords). 2 Inferior Thyro-arytenoid (situated in the true vocal chords). Hyo-epiglottic Ligament. Thyro-epiglottic Ligament. 3 Glosso-epiglottic Folds.