THE TYMPANUM. 217 Processus Cochleariformis,—the small end of the septum tubge, projecting into the tympanum. (See p. 17.) Posterior Wall, separates it from the mastoid cells, and presents the— Openings of the Mastoid Cells. Ridge of the Aqueductus Fallopii, curving downwards and nearly vertically. (See above.) Describe the Ossicles of the Tympanum. They are three small bones, which form a chain across the tympanic cavity, connecting the membrana tympani with the fenestra ovalis, and named the— Malleus, or Hammer,A—consists of a head, neck, short process, ^ong pro- cess, or Processus Gracilis, and handle, or Manubrium. The short pro- cess and handle are fastened to the middle layer of the drumhead. The long process is received into the Glaserian fissure, and the head articulates with the head of the Incus. Incus, or Anvil,B—has a head, also a long and a short process. The head articulates with the head of the malleus, the short process with the posterior wall of the tympanum, the long process with the head of the stapes, by the Os Orbiculare, its convex ex- tremity. Stapes, or Stirrup,C—presents a head, neck, base and crura. Its head articulates with the incus, its base rests on the membrane closing the fenestra ovalis, its neck receives the tendon of the stapedius muscle. Name the Ligaments of the Ossicles. They are the— Ligamentum Mallei Anterius,—from the spina tympanica major to the neck and long process of the malleus. Lig. Mallei Externum,—from the border of the Rivinian segment (p. 214), to the neck of the malleus. Its posterior fibres are the— Lig. Mallei Posticum,—(Laxator tympani minor muscle of Sommering)—is simply the posterior group of fibres of the preceding ligament. Lig. Mallei Superius,—(Suspensory lig. of the malleus) from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. Lig. Incudis Superius,—from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the incus (Arnold). Lig. Incudis Posticum,—from the posterior wall of the tympanum to the short process of the incus. Lig. Obturatorium Stapedium,—a thin membrane which closes the opening between the crura of the stapes. Fig. 107.