10 ANATOMY. Name the Bones of the Head. They number 22, and comprise the Cranial Bones (8)—the frontal, 2 parietal, occipital, 2 temporal, the sphenoid and the ethmoid bones. Facial Bones (14)—2 superior maxillary, 2 malar, 2 nasal, 2 lachrymal, 2 palate, 2 inferior turbinated, vomer and inferior maxillary. Name the Bones of the Trunk. They number 53, as follows, viz.— Vertebra (24)—7 cervical, 12 dorsal, and 5 lumbar vertebra?. Thorax (25)—7 pairs of true ribs, 3 pairs of false ribs, 2 pairs of floating ribs, (articulating with the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae,) and the sternum. Pelvis (4)—the sacrum, the coccyx, and 2 ossa innominata; each os innomi- natum consisting of 3,—the ilium, ischium, and pubes. Name the Bones of each Upper Extremity. They number 32, as fol- lows :— Shoulder (2)—the clavicle and scapula. Arm (1)—the humerus. Forearm (2)—the radius and ulna. Hand (27)—8 carpal bones,—the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, pisiform, trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform,—5 metacarpal, and 14 phalanges. Name the Bones of each Lower Extremity. They number 29, viz.— Thigh (1)—the femur. Leg (2)—the tibia and fibula. Foot (26)—7 tarsal bones,—the astragalus, os calcis, scaphoid, cuboid, external middle and internal cuneiform,—5 metatarsal, 14 phalanges. Name the Unclassified Bones. They are the— Patella (2), which are sesamoid bones, each developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris muscle. Hyoid Bone (1)—the tongue-bone, not articulated to the skeleton. Malleus, Inctis, Stapes (3 pairs)—the bones of the middle ear. Sesamoid Bones, of variable number, situated in the tendons of the gastrocne- mius and peroneus longus muscles, and in the flexor tendons of the great toe and the thumb. Wormian Bones (ossa triqueta), sometimes found in the cranial sutures, are not constant in number or size. Name the principal Eminences on Bones. Heads, are convex and smooth, for articulation in movable joints. Condyles, are irregularly-shaped heads. Trochanters, when for turning the bone. Tuberosities, are broad, uneven prominences. Tubercles, are small tuberosities. Spines, or Spinoiis processes, when sharp and slender. Apophysis, is a process which has been an