ANATOMY. 136 spine, and re-enters the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, supply ing the perineum, anus, and genitalia. Small Sciatic,/ to the gluteus maximus, and integument of the perineum, scrotum, and back of the thigh and leg. Great Sciatic,g the largest nerve of the body, and the direct continuation of the sacral plexus, escapes by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, sends an Articular Branch to the hip-joint, Muscular branches to the adductor magnus, semimembranosus, semitendinosus, and biceps muscles, and ter- minates in the Externalh and Internali Popliteal nerves, generally about the lower one-third of the thigh. Describe the External Popliteal Nerve. It passes from the bifurcation of the great sciatic along the outer side of the popliteal space, gives off Articular and Cutaneous branches, and about an inch below the head of the fibula it divides into the— Anterior Tibial,m supplying the extensors, and the integument of the adja- cent sides of the great and 2d toes. Musculo-cutaneous,n by 2 branches (internal and external) to the peroneal muscles, the integument of the ankles, and the dorsal integument and sides of all the toes, except the outer side of the little toe and the ad- joining sides of the great and 2d toes. Describe the Internal Popliteal Nerve. It is the largest of the two, and descends along the middle of the back of the leg, becoming the Posterior Tibialk at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and dividing into the External and Internal Plantarl below the inner malleolus. Its branches are as follows:— Articular, 3 in number, to the knee-joint. Muscular, to the gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. External or Short Saphenous,P formed by a filament from both popliteal nerves, supplies the integument of the little toe and outer side of the foot. Muscular, to the tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, and flexor longus digitorum. Plantar Cutaneous, to the skin of the heel and inner sole of the foot. Internal Plantar, to the inner plantar muscles, sole of the foot, and the plantar integument of the inner 3^ toes. External Plantar, to the external plantar muscles, and the plantar integu- ment of the outer \]/z toes. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. What is the Sympathetic Nerve? It consists of a series of ganglia situated on each side of the vertebral column, connected together and to the cerebro