178 VISCERAL ANATOMY. THE BLADDER. What is the Bladder ? It is the urinary reservoir, a musculo-membra- nous sac, situated in the anterior portion of the pelvis, behind the pubes. When moderately distended it measures about 5 by 3 inches, and holds about a pint. Its— Summit,—is connected to the umbilicus by the Urachus and the obliterated Hypogastric Arteries of the foetus, forming three fibrous cords, the Superior Ligament of the bladder. Body,—is in relation in front with the triangular ligament, the symphysis pubis, and the in- ternal obturator muscles,—behind it is cov- ered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the rectum in the male, with the uterus and upper part of the vagina in the female. Each side is crossed obliquely by the obliterated hypogastric artery and the vas deferens,c the first passing from below for- 1 wards, the latter from below backwards. Fundus or Base,—rests on the second portion of the rectum in the male, on the lower part of the cervix uteri and adherent to the anterior wall of the vagina in the female. It is partly covered by peritoneum. Cervix or Neck,—is constricted and continuous with the urethra.*' It is sur- rounded in the male by the prostate gland,h and is directed downwards and forwards. Name the Ligaments of the Bladder. They number 10, of which 5 are true ligaments, and 5 are false, the latter being folds of peritoneum. They are named as follows,— True Ligaments. False Ligaments. 2 Anterior (pubo-prostatic). 2 Posterior. 2 Lateral. 2 Lateral. Superior (the Urachus, etc.). Superior. What is the Urachus ? It is the obliterated remains of a canal, which in the embryo connects the bladder with the allantois. It is situated between the two obliterated hypogastric arteries, and with them forms the superior liga- ment of the bladder, connecting the summit of that organ with the umbilicus. What is the Trigonum Vesicae ? (r, Fig. 89.) The Vesical Trigone is a triangular space, of pale color, at the base of the bladder interiorly, charac- terized by its smooth surface and the intimate adhesion between its mucous and muscular coats. Its boundaries are—