75 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX AND EPIGLOTTIS. Action, to flex the cervical vertebrae and slightly to rotate them. Nerves, branches from the lower cervical. Scalenus Anti'cus,20 from a tubercle on the upper surface of the ist rib,— into the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, from the 3d to the 6th inclusive. Action, to flex the neck laterally, or to raise the 1st rib. ATerves, branches from the lower cervical. (See Fig. 38.) Scalenus Medius,22 from the upper surface of the ist rib, behind the sub- clavian groove,—into the transverse processes of the lower 6 cervical vertebrae. Action, same as scalenus anticus. Nerves, branches from the lower cervical. Scalenus Posti'cus,21 from the outer surface of the 2d rib,—into the posterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the lower 2 or 3 cervical vertebrae. Action, to flex the neck laterally, or to elevate the 2d rib. Nerves, branches from lower cervical. MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX AND EPIGLOTTIS. Crico-thyroid, from the front and side of the cricoid cartilage,—into the lower and inn£r borders of the thyroid cartilage. Action, to elongate and make tense the vocal chords. Nerve, superior laryngeal. Crico-arytenoideus Posticus, from the cricoid cartilage posteriorly,—into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Action, to rotate the arytenoid cartilages outwards and open the glottis, while keeping the vocal chords tense. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. Crico-arytenoideus Lateralis, from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage laterally,—into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Action, to rotate the arytenoid cartilages inwards and close the glottis. ATerve, recurrent laryngeal. Thyro-arytenoideus,/L?w the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage and the crico-thyroid membrane,—into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. Action, to shorten and . relax the vocal chords by approximating the cartilages. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. Arytenoideus, from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage,—into the corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage, filling up the posterior concave surface of these cartilages. Action, by approximating the arytenoids, to close the back part of the glottis. Nerves, superior and recurrent laryngeal. Thyro-epiglottideus,/r0w the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage,—into the margin of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Action, a de- pressor of the epiglottis. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal.