ANATOMY. 50 Describe the Phalanges. The finger-bones are 14 in number (15 accor* mg to Pancoast), 3 to each finger, and 2 to the thumb. They are long bones, and each has a base, a shaft, and a digital extremity. The Bases of the first row articulate with the heads of the metacarpal bones. The Digital Extremities of the first and second rows have each 2 small lateral condyles, while in the terminal row they are rough, for the attachment of the sensitive pulp of the fingers. BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. THE THIGH. Describe the Femur. The thigh-bone is nearly cylindrical, and is the 6 longest, largest, and strongest bone in the body. In the ver- tical position of the skeleton it forms one side of a triangle, of which the base is the breadth of the pelvis, and the apex at the knee-joints. The base of this triangle is longest in the female, and consequently that sex is usually knock-kneed. Headb articulates with the acetabulum, forms about two- fifths of a sphere, and has an oval depressions below its centre for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. Neck,c connects the head with the shaft, is pyramidal and flattened ; its obliquity varies with age, being less before puberty, about 120 to 125 degrees in the adult, and nearly horizontal to the shaft in old or debilitated subjects. Great Trochanter,d a broad, rough, quadrilateral process directed outwards and backwards from the summit of the shaft to within three-fourths of an inch of the level of the head. On its outer surface the tendon of the gluteus maximus plays over a bursa. It gives insertion to the obturator interims, two gemelli, pyriformis, and gluteus minimus and medius muscles. Digital Fossa, on the inner surface of the great trochanter, gives insertion to the obturator externus muscle. Lesser Trochanter,e at the inferior root of the neck pos- teriorly, is small and conical, and affords insertion to the tendon of the psoas magnus muscle, the tendon of the iliacus being inserted immediately below it. Inter-trochanteric Lines, anterior and posterior, the latter the most prominent; to the anterior is attached the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. I.inea Quadrati, extends from the middle of the posterior inter-trochanteric line about 2 inches down the shaft,, and gives attachment to the quadratus femoris muscle.