Fig. 33. ANATOMY. 60 Describe the Sterno-clavicular Articulation. It is an arthrodial joint, formed by the sternal end of the clavicle with the sternum and the cartilage of the ist rib. It has an interarticular fibro-cartilage, 2 synovial membranes, and 4 ligaments, viz.— Anterior Sterno-clavicular. Inter clavicular. Posterior Sterno-clavicular. Costo-clavicular or Rhomboid. Describe the Scapulo-clavicular Articulation. It is an arthrodial joint, formed by the outer extremity of the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapula. It frequently has an interarticular fibro-cartilage and 2 synovial membranes; usually but i synovial membrane is present, and 3 ligaments, viz.— Superior Acromio-clavicular.1 Coraco-clavicular2 j Trapezoid, externally. Inferior Acromio-clavicular. divided into— l Conoid, internally. What are the proper Ligaments of the Scapula? They are 2, the coraco- acromial, and the transverse, as follows.— Coraco-acromialp completes the vault par- tially formed by the 2 processes over the head of the humerus. Transverse,4 from the base of the coracoid process to the margin of the suprascapular notch, converting it into a foramen, for the supra-scapular nerve. Describe the Shoulder-joint. It is an enarthrodial joint, formed by the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity of the It has a Symovial Membrane which is reflected upon the tendons of the biceps, subscapularis, and infraspinatus muscles, and communicates with bursas beneath the 2 latter tendons. Its Arteries are derived from the anterior and posterior circumflex and the suprascapular; its Nerves from the circumflex and the supra- scapular. It has 3 ligaments, viz.— Capstdarp from the margin of the glenoid cavity to the anatomical neck of the humerus; has 3 openings for the reflexions of the synovial membrane over the tendons. Coraco-htimeralp intimately united with the capsular, extends from the cora- coid process to the greater tuberosity. Glenoid, a fibro-cartilaginous ring, continuous above with the tendon of the