108 ANATOMY. Nutrient Branch, enters the nutrient canal. Inferior Profunda, to the elbow-joint anastomosis. Anastomotica Magna, anastomoses with the posterior articular, inferior pro- funda, anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent. Muscular Branches, to the muscles in the course of the artery. Describe the Radial. It extends from the bifurcation of the brachial to the deep palmar arch, and gives off the following branches respectively, in the fore- arm, the wrist, and the hand, viz.— Radial Recurrent. Posterior Carpal. Pr in ceps Pollicis. Muscular. Metacarpal. Radialis Indicis. Superficialis Voice. Dorsalis Pollicis. Perforantes. Anterior Carpal. Dorsalis Indicis. InterossecE. Name the Branches of the Ulnar. It extends from the division of the brachial to the superficial palmar arch. It has 8 branches, viz.— Anterior Ulnar Recurrent. Muscular. Deep or Communicating Posterior Ulnar Recurrent. Anterior Carpal. Branch. Interosseous / ^ntei lor. Posterior Carpal. Digital. I Posterior. r * Describe the Palmar Arches. The Superficial Palmar Arch is that part of the ulna artery lying in the palm of the hand, and anastomosing with the superficialis volae from the radial, and a branch from the radialis indicis, at the root of the thumb. It gives off 4 branches, the digital, to the sides of the fingers, except the inside of the index finger, which is supplied by the radialis indicis. The Deep Palmar Arch is formed by the palmar portion of the radial artery anastomosing with the deep or communicating branch of the ulna. It gives off the radialis indicis, palmar interosseae, perforating and recurrent branches. Describe the Thoracic Aorta. It begins on the left of the spine, at the lower border of the 3d dorsal vertebra, and ends at the aortic opening in the diaphragm directly in front of the last dorsal vertebra. Its branches are as follows :— Pericardiac Branches, irregular in number and origin. Bronchial, also vary in number and origin; generally one on the right side and two on the left. They nourish the lungs. (Esophageal, 4 or 5, anastomose on the oesophagus with branches of the in- ferior thyroid, phrenic, and gastric. Posterior Mediastinal, numerous small vessels. Intercostals, usually 10 on each side, each dividing into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior divides again into two along the adjacent borders of the ribs, supplying the intercostal muscles and anastomosing with