126 ANATOMY. line, between the hippocampus major and the optic thalamus. It opens at the base of the brain between the middle lobe and the crus cerebri, and admits the pia mater to the middle cornu. Describe and bound the Third Ventricle. It is a mere fissure, situated between the optic thalami in the median line. It communicates with the lateral ventricles above by the foramina of Monroe, and with the 4th ventricle behind by the iter e tertio ad quartam ventriculum. It is crossed by 3 bands, the anterior, middle, and posterior commissures, the middle one being of gray matter, the others of white. In the foetus its cavity communicates with the 5th ventricle, and through the infundibulum with the cavity of the pituitary body. It is bounded as follows :— Roof,—the velum interposition, and above it the fornix. Floor,—the parts comprised in the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain, viz.—the lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, corpora albicantia, and posterior perforated space. Anteriorly,—the anterior crura of the fornix, and the anterior commissure of the ventricle. Posteriorly,—the posterior commissure, and the iter e tertio, etc. Laterally,— the optic thalami and the peduncles of the pineal gland. Describe and bound the Fourth Ventricle. The fourth, or ventricle of the cerebellum, lies between the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. It is considered by some to be a dilatation of the central canal of the spinal cord, and is enclosed posteriorly by the pia mater; an opening in which admits the entrance and exit of the sub-arachnoid fluid from the sub-arachnoidean space of the brain and spinal cord, and a fold of the pia mater called the Choroid Plexus. It also communicates with the 3d ventricle by the iter e tertio, etc. Its boundaries are as follows :— Roof,—the valve of Vieussens, and the cerebellum. Anteriorly,—the medulla oblongata, and the pons Varolii. Posteriorly,—the cerebellum. Laterally,—the processus e cerebello ad testes, the posterior pyramids and the restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata. Floor,—the posterior median fissure of the medulla, the orifice of the cen- tral canal of the cord, the locus ceruleus and taenia violacea (both of blue color), the fasculi teretes (2 spindle-shaped elevations) and eminences of origin of certain nerves. Describe the Fifth Ventricle. It is situated between the two layers of the septum lucidum, and therefore between the lateral ventricles. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum, and in the foetus it communicates with the 3d ventricle by an opening between the pillars of the fornix. It usually contains fluid.