THE URETERS. 177 Malpighian Tufts,—are capillary plexuses within the Malpighian bodies. From them arise the— Efferent Vessels,—whether arterial or venous, is undecided. They form Venous Plexuses,—on the convoluted uriniferous tubes. Stars of Verheyen,—are venous plexuses of stellate form, situated on the surface of the kidney, beneath its capsule, joining to form the— Interlobular Veins,—from the cortical portion; which with the Vena Recta,—from the medullary pyramids, making Venous Arches,—over the bases of the pyramids, finally meet in the—> Vena Propria Renales,—and they end in the Renal Vein,—which empties into the inferior vena cava. Whence are the Nerves of the Kidney derived ? From the Renal Plexus, which is formed by filaments from the solar plexus and the lesser splanchnic nerve. THE URETERS. What is the Ureter? The excretory duct of the kidney, forming, by its upper expanded portion, the cavity of that gland. It is a musculo-membra- nous tube, 16 to 18 inches long, as large as a small goose-quill; and ends at the base of the bladder, into which it opens obliquely by'a constricted orifice, about 2 inches from the orifice of its fellow. The ureter commences in the— Calices,—7 to 13 small tubes, embracing the papillae of the kidney, and joining to form the— Infundibula,—3 or 4 in number, which unite in the— Pelvis,—a funnel-shaped dilatation of the upper portion of the ureter. Describe its Course. It descends obliquely inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen, enters the posterior false ligament of the bladder in the male, and that of the uterus in the female, through which it passes forwards and inwards to the posterior angle of the trigone vesicae, lying between the muscular and mucous coats of the bladder, for about three-fourths of an inch. What are its Relations ? It lies upon the psoas muscle, behind the peri- toneum and below the spermatic vessels, over the common iliac or the external iliac artery, behind the ileum on the right side, behind the sigmoid flexure on the left. The right ureter lies close to the outer side of the inferior vena cava. Describe its Structure. The ureter has 3 coats—a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous; the epithelium of the mucous coat is different from that of the urethra, the bladder, or the uriniferous tubes, being spheroidal in shape. L