26 ANATOMY. Fig. 9. Orbital process,* triangular in shape, large and hollow. It has— Three Articular Surfaces, for the sup. maxillary, sphenoid, and ethmoid. Two Free Szirfaces, the orbital forming part of the floor of the orbit, the external aiding to form the zygomatic fossa. Rounded Border, forms a part of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Sphenoidal process,/ projects backwards, articulates superiorly with the body of the sphenoid, and externally with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. On its upper surface is a— Groove, which assists in forming the pterygo-palatine canal. Inner Surface, forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. Describe its articulations, development, and muscles. The palate articulates with 6 bones,—the sphenoid, ethmoid, vomer, superior maxillary, inferior turbinated, and its fellow palate bone. It is developed by one centre at the junction of the two plates. There are 5 muscles attached to it,—the azygos uvulae, internal and external pterygoids, superior constrictor, and tensor palati. THE INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES. Describe them. They are 2 thin curved osseous plates situated in the nasal fossae, their convex surfaces presenting inwardly. Each bone is attached above to the inferior turbinated crests of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and presents the following, viz.— Lachrymal Process,3 aiding to form the nasal duct, by articulation with the lachrymal and superior maxillary bones. Ethmoidal Process,l articulating with the unci- form process of the ethmoid, thus helping to partially close the aperture of the antrum. Maxillary Process,* also helps to partially close the aperture of the antrum, by hooking7 over the lower edge of that orifice. Free Border,5 below, coming to about ^ inch above the floor of the nose. Name its articulations, centres, and muscles. The inferior turbinated articulates with 4 bones, the ethmoid, lachrymal, palate, and superior max- illary. It is developed by one centre, and has no muscles attached to it. THE VOMER. Describe it. The vomer (plough-share) forms the postero-inferior part Fig. 10. of the nasal septum, but is usually bent to one side. Its— Superior Border} 2 has a groove and two al» or wings, for articulation with the rostrum and vaginal processes of the sphenoid bone.