211 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. Eyelashes, or Cilia,—are a double or triple row of short hairs, situated on the free margins of the lids; their follicles lying in the connective tissue beneath the tarsal cartilages. Arteries,—are the Palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery, forming the Superior and Inferior Tarsal Arches, and anastomosing with the angular, anterior temporal, lachrymal and transverse facial. Nerves,—the 3d, facial and sympathetic to the muscles; the 5th to the skin and conjunctiva. What is the Conjunctiva ? It is the mucous membrane which lines the eyelids, and is reflected over the front of the sclerotic and cornea. It is con tinuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, canaliculi, lachry- mal sac, nasal duct, lachrymal duct and gland. The— Palpebral Conjunctiva,—consists of connective tissue covered by epithe- lium, is traversed by furrows, and has papilke and follicular glands. Ocular Conjunctiva,—is very thin and transparent, loosely attached on the sclerotic, firmly adherent over the cornea, where it has no vessels in it? structure. It has very few papilke, and no glands. Retro-tarsal or Palpebral Folds,— superior and inferior,—are where the con- junctiva is reflected over the globe. They contain prominent papillae, and conglomerate glands, called the accessory lachrymal glands. Plica Semilunaris, or Semi-lunar Folds,—a crescentic fold of conjunctiva at the inner canthus, considered to be the rudiment of the Membrana Nictitans or 3d eyelid (of birds). What is the Caruncula Lachrymalis ? It is a small, red, conical body, situated in the lacus lachrymalis, at the inner canthus of the eye ; consisting of hair follicles and sebaceous glands, and covered by conjunctiva. It is con- nected by tendinous fibres to the capsule of Tenon and to the rectus interims muscle. Name the parts constituting the Lachrymal Apparatus. They are the lachrymal gland and its ducts, the accessory conjunctival glands, the canaliculi, lachrymal sac, and nasal duct. Describe the Lachrymal Gland. It is an oval gland situated in a fossa of the orbital portion of the frontal bone, at the outer angle of the orbit, its inferior surface resting on the eyeball, its lower margin or lobe being covered by conjunctiva. The— Tarso-orbital Fascia,—connects the lachrymal gland to the bony roof of the orbit. Ducts,—6 to 12 in number; open on the upper and outer portion of the palpebral conjunctiva. Secretion—{tears),—lubricates the anterior surface of the eyeball. Excess