APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. 209 Short Ciliary,—some 20 in number, arise from the Ciliary Ganglion [See ante, page 137], pierce the sclerotic and go to the ciliary muscle, choroid, iris, cornea, and to the sheath of the optic nerve. Ascending,—from Meckel’s ganglion [See ante, page 137], enter the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, going to the optic nerve, the 6th nerve, and the ciliary ganglion. Describe the formation and course of the Optic Tract. The fibres which form the optic tract have their deep origin in the optic thalamus, corpora geniculata, and the anterior corpora quadrigemina. The tract winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, receiving from the crus a few fibres of attach- ment, and also fibres from the lamina cinerea and the tuber cinereum. In front of the latter body the two tracts join to form the Optic Commissure or Chiasm. [See 2 on Fig. 61, page 130.] What is the arrangement of the Fibres in the Optic Commissure ? As generally described, the fibres undergo a partial decussation, as follows, viz., the— Decussating Fibres,—are the most numerous. They lie in the centre of the commissure, and pass across to the opposite side, connecting the retina of each eye with the opposite cerebral hemisphere. Longitudinal Fibres,—are the external fibres in the optic tracts, passing into the optic nerve of the same side, connecting each retina with the cerebral hemisphere of its own side. Inter-cerebral Fibres,—situated posteriorly in the commissure, passing from one optic tract to the other. Inter-retinal Fibres,—lie anteriorly in the commissure, passing from one optic nerve to the other, and connecting the retina of one eye with that of the other. Describe the Optic Nerve. The Optic Nerve proper is the 2d cranial nerve, arises from the optic commissure, passes into the orbit by the optic fora- men in company with the ophthalmic artery, is pierced by the central artery of the retina, and enters the eyeball posteriorly j1^ inch inwardly from its axis, piercing the sclerotic and choroid coats, and finally expanding in the retina. It is surrounded by a tubular process of dura mater, which as the nerve enters the orbit, subdivides to form both the sheath of the nerve and the periosteum of the orbit. Appendages of The Eye. What are the Tutamina Oculi ? including the— Eyebrows, or Supercilia. Eyelids, or Palpebrse. Conjunctiva, or lining membrane. They are the appendages of the eye, Lachrymal Gland, and Ducts. I^achrymal Sac. dVasal Duct.