VISCERAL ANATOMY. 158 Fig. 77. Veins,—open into the splenic and mesenteric veins. Nerves,—from the solar plexus, forming a Splenic Hexus. What is the Lesser Pancreas ? A lobe of the head of the pancreas; sometimes detached therefrom, in which case it opens by a duct into the duodenum about an inch above the orifice of the pancreatic duct. THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. Name the so-called Ductless Glands. They are the Spleen, Supra- renal Capsules, Thyroid and Thymus Glands. The first two are in the abdo- minal cavity, the thyroid gland is in the front of the trachea, and the thymus gland is in the anterior mediastinum of the thorax. These organs have no excretory ducts, and their functions are unknown. THE SPLEEN. Describe the Spleen. The spleen is a soft, spongy and very vascular organ, about 5 by 3 by 2 inches, from 6 to 10 ounces in weight, and situated deeply in the left hypochondrium, embracing the cardiac end of the stomach, to which it is connected by the gastro-splenic omentum. Its— Outer Surfaceis convex, corresponds to the 9th, 10th and nth ribs, and is in relation with the inferior surface of the diaphragm. Inner Surface,—is concave, and embraces the cardiac or splenic end of the stomach. Borders,—the anterior is thin and often notched; the posterior is thick and lies on the left kidney. Suspensory Ligament,—attaches the upper extremity to the diaphragm, and is a fold of peritoneum. Hilum,—a vertical fissure about the middle of the con- cave surface. It is pierced by the vessels, lymphatics and nerves. Peritoneal, or Serous Coat,—covers the whole organ, except at the attach- ments of the suspensory ligaments and the gastro-splenic omentum. Pibro-elastic Coat, or Tunica Propria,—is reflected at the hilum upon the vessels, and gives off numerous bands (trabeculce), which bound the lacunar spaces (areolce) of the organ. Malpighian Corpuscles,—are lymphoid sphenoidal expansions of the outer coat of the small arteries, and average in diameter about the ^ of an inch. They are attached to the arterioles of the organ in groups of 6 or 8, and are usually pierced by an artery. Their reticulum is slender and open, densely filled with lymphoid corpuscles, and well supplied with capillaries. They have no capsule.