194 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Papillary Layer,—situated next to the rete mucosum,is covered with minute conical elevations (papillae), inch high inch in diameter at tneir base, very numerous and arranged in parallel curved lines wherever sen- sibility is greatest. Each papilla contains a capillary loop or plexus, the termination of one or more sensory nerves,—and in highly sensitive parts, an oval shaped body, the Tactile Corpuscle. Corium,—the lower layer of the derma, is composed chiefly of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, in which are mingled some yellow elastic fibres, also plain muscular fibres wherever hairs are found,—and lym- phatic vessels, blood-vessels and nerves, in plexiform arrangement. Describe the Nails. They are flat, horny structures, a modification of the epidermis, molded upon the derma at the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of both fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outward surface, and is imbedded by its Root into a fold of the skin. Its— Matrix,—is that portion of the derma directly beneath the nail. It is covered with highly vascular papillae. The—- Lunula,—is a white crescentic portion of the nail nearest to its root, pro- duced by the diminution in number and size of the papillae beneath. What are the Hairs ? They are also a modified form of the epidermis, found over nearly the whole surface of the body, much varied in size and color. Each hair consists of a Root and a Shaft. The— Rooty—is lodged in an involution of the epidermis called the Hair-follicle, which sometimes extends into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The root rests on a vascular papilla at the bottom or Bulb of the follicle, which supplies it with the material for its growth. Shaft,—is the projecting portion of the hair. It consists of a medulla in the centre, next a fibrous portion, externally a cortex of thin, flat scales. The finest hairs have no medulla. Point,—consists of the fibrous portion and the cortex, the medulla being wanting. Where are the Sebaceous Glands most abundant ? In the scalp, the face, around the anus, and the apertures of the nose, mouth and external ear. The largest are the— Meibomian Glands,—situated in the eyelids (see Fig. 104). Describe the Sebaceous Glands. They are small, glandular bodies situated in the corium or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue over most of the body, but not in that of the palmar surface of the hands nor on the plantar surface of the feet. Each gland consists of a single sacculated duct, usually opening into a hair follicle, but sometimes ending on the surface of the in- tegument.