Ill THE ARTERIES. Internal Pudic, the smaller of the terminal branches of the anterior trunk, supplies the external generative organs. Its branches in the pelvis are numerous and small, in the perineum they are— Inferior Hemorrhoidal. Artery of the Bulb. Superficial Perineal. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum. Transverse Perineal. Dorsal Artery of the Penis. Sciatic, the other terminal branch, supplies the muscles on the back of the pelvis. Its branches are as follows :— Muscular Branches. Coccygeal. Muscular, external Hemorrhoidal Branches. Inferior Gluteal. to the pelvis. Vesical Branches. Comes Nervi Ischiadici. Articular Branches. The Posterior Trunk gives off the following:— Ilio-lumbar, dividing into lumbar and iliac branches. Lateral Sacral, superior and inferior on each side. Gluteal, the continuation of the posterior trunk, divides into a superficial and a deep branch, to the glutei muscles, the skin over the sacrum, and the liip-joint. Before dividing it gives a nutrient branch to the ilium, and some muscular branches. Describe the External Iliac. It extends to beneath the centre of Poupart’s ligament, where it enters the thigh and becomes the Femoral Arteiy, lying be- tween the femoral vein on the inside and the anterior crural nerve on the out- side—V.A.N. Its branches are, small muscular and glandular, and— Epigastric, which usually arises a few lines above Poupart’s ligament, passes between the peritoneum and the transversalis fascia, to the sheath of the rectus which it perforates, and ascends behind that muscle, to anastomose by numerous branches witfy the terminal branches of the internal mam- mary and inferior intercostal. It gives off— Cremasteric. Pubic. Muscular Branches. Circumflex Iliac, arises opposite to the epigastric, passes along the crest of the ilium to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar, gluteal, lumbar, and epigas- tric arteries. Describe the Femoral Artery. It extends from Poupart’s ligament to the opening in the adductor magnus, where it becomes the popliteal artery. Its course corresponds to a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, to the inner side of the inner condyle of the femur. It lies in a strong fibrous sheath with the femoral vein, but divided from the latter by a fibrous partition. It bisects Scarpa’s triangle in the upper part of its course, where it is superficial, and rests on the inner margin of the psoas, which separates it from the capsule of the hip-joint* Its branches are as follows: —