VISCERAL ANATOMY. 218 Annular Ligament,—connecting the base of the stapes to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. Capsular Ligaments,—around the articulations between the ossicles them- selves, which articulations are lined by synovial membranes, with articular cartilages between the contiguous surfaces. Name the Muscles of the Tympanum. Three are usually described, —the Tensor Tympani, Laxator Tympani, and the Stapedius. A fourth, the Laxator Tympani Minor, is now generally omitted, being considered the posterior ligament of the malleus by most writers. Many otologists omit the Laxator Tympani from the list also. [These muscles are described on page 71.] What Arteries supply the Tympanum ? The— Tympanic,—branch of the internal maxillary, entering the Glaserian fissure, anastomosing on the membrana tympani, in a vascular circle, with the Stylo- mastoid and Vidian arteries, and the Tympanic br. of the internal carotid. Stylo-mastoid,—br. of the posterior auricular br. of the external carotid, en- tering at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Petrosal,—br. of middle meningeal artery, entering by the hiatus Fallopii. Tympanic,—br. from the internal carotid artery. (See p. 105.) Vidian,—br. of the internal maxillary br. of the external carotid. Branches,—from the ascending pharyngeal br. of the external carotid. Name the Nerves of the Tympanum. The— Tympanic Br. of the Glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson’s Nerve),—enters the tym- panum through its floor, and supplies the two fenestrae and the mucous lin- ing of the cavity, helping to form the Tympanic Plextis (see below). Tympanic Branch of the Facial Nerve,—to the stapedius and laxator tympani muscles. Branch from the Otic Ganglion,—to the tensor tympani muscle. [This ganglion is described on page 137.] Chorda Tympani Br. of the Facial,—enters the tympanum by the iter chordae posterius, crosses the cavity between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, and makes its exit by the iter chordae anterius, after passing close along the upper part of the membrana tympani. How is the Tympanic Plexus Formed ? By the— Tympanic Br. of the Glosso-Pharyngeal,—or Jacobson’s nerve. Branch of the Superficial Petrosal, from the Facial,—entering from above. Branches from the Carotid Plexus of the Sympathetic,—through the wall of the carotid canal. The plexus lies in grooves on the inner wall around the promontory, and sup- plies the mucous membrane of the tympanum.