132 ANATOMY. gth, Glosso-pharyngeal,12 nerve of sensation and taste,—arises from the me- dulla oblongata behind the olivary body, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle; exit by the jugular foramen, to the back of the tongue (taste), the middle ear, the tonsils, and pharynx. Branches are— Tympanic (Jacobson’s). Pharyngeal. Tonsillar. Carotid. Muscular. Lingual. 10th, Pneumogastric, or Par Vagum,12 the auriculo-laryngo-pharyngo-oesoph- ago-tracheo-pulmono-cardio-gastro-hepatic nerve. A nerve of sensation and motion, probably receiving its motor influence from its spinal accessory. It arises from the medulla behind the olivary body and below the 9th nerve, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle; exit by the jugular foramen, to the parts indicated by the above euphonious appellation, supplying sensatioti to the external ear and larynx, motion to the other parts. Its branches are the— Auricular (Arnold’s). Recurrent Laryngeal. (Esophageal. Pharyngeal. Cervical and Thoracic Cardiac. Gastric. Superior Laryngeal. Ant. and Post. Pulmonary. Hepatic. : 1 th, Spinal Accessory12 (to the pneumogastric),—motor nerve,—arises by a double origin (1) from the lateral tract of the medulla, deeply from near the floor of the 4th ventricle; (2) from the lateral tract of the cord by several filaments, as low as the 6th cervical nerve, deeply from the anterior gray horn of the cord. Exit by jugular foramen, its spinal portion having first entered by the foramen magnum, to the sterno-cleido-mastoid and trapezius muscles, communicating with the pharyngeal and laryngeal nerves by its accessory portion in the same sheath wdth the pneumogastric; also with the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th cervical nerves by its spinal portion. Its branches are indicated by the above-described distribution. 12th, Hypo-glossal,13 (Nonus or 9th of Willis), motor of the tongue,—arises by 10 to 15 filaments from the groove between the pyramidal and olivary bodies of the medulla oblongata, deeply from the floor of the 4th ventricle; exit by the anterior condyloid foramen, to the thyro- and genio-hyoid, the stylo-,hyo-, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles; and by the descendens nonibranch to the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles. It communi- cates with the pneumogastric, sympathetic, 1st and 2d cervical, and gustatory nerves. Its branches of distribution are the— Descendens Noni. Muscular. Thvro-hyoid. What Nerves enter the Cranium before passing out of it ? The spinal portion of the Spinal Accessory, and the Nasal branch of the Ophthalmic. The first enters by the foramen magnum, and then leaves by the jugular fora- men. The second enters from the orbit by the anterior ethmoidal foramen, and leaves by the nasal slit at the side of the crista galli.