ANATOMY. 116 (3.) Veins of the neck draining the above-named. External Jugular,6 terminating in the subclavian vein.4 Posterior External Jugular, opens into the external jugular. Anterior Jugular,7 enters the subclavian vein near the external jugular. Internal Jugular,5 formed by the junction of the two last-named sinuses at the jugular foramen, and uniting with the subclavian vein to form the innomi- nate, at the root of the neck. In its course it receives the facial, lingual, pharyngeal, superior and middle thyroid veins, and the occipital. Vertebral, descends the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and empties into the innominate vein. Name the Veins of the Upper Extremity. They are in two sets, super- ficial and deep. The deep follow the arteries, generally as venae comites, beginning in the hand as Digital, Interosseous, and Palmar veins, they unite in the Deep Radial and Ulnar which unite to form the Vence Comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. The superficial veins lie in the superficial fascia; they are as follows:— Radial I Median Cephalic. Cephalic. Median ^ Anterior and Posterior Ulnar r Median Basilic. Basilic. Axillary Vein. Name the principal Veins of the Thorax. They are as follows, viz.— Internal Mammary. Bronchial. Right Azygos [major). Inferior Thyroid. Mediastinal. Left Lower Azygos [minor). Intercostal. Pericardiac. Left Upper Azygos [minimus). What are the Azygos Veins ? They supply the place of the venm cavae in the region where these trunks are deficient, being connected with the heart. The Right Azygos17 begins by a branch from the right lumbar veins usually, passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ends in the superior vena cava, having drained 9 or 10 right lower intercostals, the vena azygos minor, the right bronchial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins. The Left Lower Azygos18 begins by a branch from the left lumbar or renal, passes the left crus of the diaphragm, crosses the vertebral column and ends in the right azygos, having drained 4 or 5 lower intercostals. The Left Upper Azygos drains 2 or 3 left intercostals and empties into either of the other two. It is often wanting, its place being filled by the left superior intercostal vein.21 Name the Spinal Veins. They may be arranged into 4 sets, as follows, viz.— Medulli-spinaly the veins of the spinal cord, which lie in plexus form between the pia mater and arachnoid. They unite into 2 or 3 small trunks near the base of the skull, which terminate in the inferior cerebellar veins or in the petrosal sinuses.