160 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Enumerate the Veins and Nerves of the Thyroid Gland. The Veins form a plexus in front of the gland and the trachea, giving rise to the— Superior Thyroid Vein. ) . Middle Thyroid Vein. } °pen mt° the Internal JUgU'ar Vein- Inferior Thyroid Vein, opens into the Innominate Vein. Nerves—are branches of the pneumogastric, and of the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic. THE THYMUS GLAND. What is the Thymus Gland ? It is a temporary organ, attaining its full size about the age of 2 years, then being about 2 inches long, 1 y2 inch broad, 3 lines thick, and weighing about half an ounce. It subsequently atrophies, and has almost disappeared at puberty. It is situated in the anterior mediastinum and the neck, behind the sternum and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, extending from the level of the 4th costal cartilage to the lower border of the thyroid gland. In the mediastinum it rests upon the pericardium, and is separated by the thoracic fascia from the arch of the aorta and the great vessels. Describe its Structure. The Thymus gland consists of two lateral lobes (sometimes a third), together forming a pyramidal mass. It is surrounded by a tibrous capsule and is divided by Trabeciilce into primary and secondary lobules, which consist of meshes of delicate retiform tissue closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and pervaded with capillaries. The so-called Central Cavity and Primitive Linear Tube, are deceptive appearances of the multi- plying cells in the interior of the gland. Name its Vessels and Nerves. The Thymus— Arteries,—are derived from the internal mammary, superior and inferior thyroid, subclavian and carotid. They ramify on the surface of each lobule, having smaller twigs converging toward the centre. Veins,—open into the left innominate and the thyroid. Lymphatics,—consist of intralobular and interlobular plexuses, and open into the anterior mediastinal glands. Nerves,—are very minute and derived from the pneumogastric and the sym- pathetic. THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. What are the Supra-Renal Capsules ? They are two small, crescentic, shaped bodies, situated one on each kidney. Each presents a small fissure or Hilum anteriorly, from which its vein emerges, and consists of a— Fibrous Capsule,—which is very thin, closely adherent, and sends numerous septa inwards.