23 THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. Maxillary Tuberosity, articulates with the tuberosity of the palate bone. Turbinated Crests, inferior and superior, on the inner surface, bounding horizontal grooves which correspond to the meati of the nose. Vertical Grooves, on the inner surface, one assisting to form the nasal duct, the other to form the posterior palatine canal. Rough Surface, for articulation with the palate bone. Orbital Surface, articulating with the lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones interiorly, partly bounding the spheno-maxillary fissure exteriorly, and forming the lower margin of the orbit anteriorly. Infraorbital Groove, along the orbital surface, ending in the infraorbital canal and foramen. (See ante.) Depression, for the origin of the inferior oblique muscle of the eye. Describe its Processes. They number 4, as follows.— Malar Process,4 is triangular, looks outwards from the body, and is rough for articulation with the malar bone. Nasal Process,8 is thin anteriorly and serrated superiorly for articulation with the nasal bone; posteriorly it is smooth and articulates with the lachry- mal. It presents the— Turbinated Crests, superior and inferior, the former articulating with the middle turbinated process of the ethmoid bone. Outer Surface, gives origin to the orbicularis palpebrarum and levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscles, and the tendo oculi. Groove on the posterior border, helping to form the nasal duct. Alveolar Process, forms the curved line of the teeth, and presents— Alveoli, or sockets, for 8 teeth in the adult, 5 in the child. Palate Process, forms part of the floor of the nasal cavity, and the roof of the mouth. It articulates with the vomer, the palate bone, and with its fellow process, and presents the— Incisive Foramen, or foramen of Stenson, leading into the anterior palatine canal, for the anterior palatine vessels. Foramina of Scarpa, 2, transmitting the naso-palatine nerves. Groove on the under surface, for the protection of the vessels and nerves. Orifice of the posterior palatine canal, at the posterior end. Nasal Crest, at the articulation of the two processes with the vomer. Anterior Nasal Spine, the anterior extremity of the nasal crest. Describe its articulations and development. The superior maxillary articulates with 9 bones,—the frontal,12 ethmoid,14 vomer,13 nasal,15 lachrymal, malar, palate, inferior turbinated, and opposite superior maxillary.10 It is de- veloped probably by 4 centres,—1 for the facial and nasal parts, another for the orbital and malar, a 3d for the incisive, and a 4th for the palate portion.