ANATOMY. 54 The Scaphoid Bonef is boat-shaped, has 3 facets anteriorly for the cunei- form bones, a concave surface posteriorly for the astragalus, and a facet externally for the cuboid bone. A tubercle is situated on the lower sur- face internally, for the insertion of the tibialis posticus muscle. The Cuboid Bone/* has 3 articular surfaces, and a groove inferiorly for the tendon of the peroneus longus. The Internal Cuneiform Lone,* the largest of the 3, has a tubercle on its plantar surface for the insertion of parts of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and tibialis posticus muscles. The Middle Cuneiform Bone,/ is small and wedge-shaped with the narrow end downwards. Its anterior surface is considerably behind the line of the tarso-metatarsal articulation, thus forming a recess into which the base of the second metatarsal bone fits. The External Cuneiform Bone,g is also wedge-shaped, but longer than the middle one; and affords origin to 1 muscle, the flexor brevis pollicis. Describe the Metatarsus. The metatarsal bones * are 5 in number, are long bones, having each a shaft and 2 extremities. Their bases articulate with the tarsal bones and with each other; their heads with the first row of phalanges. 1st Metatarsal, is large but shorter than the others, and forms the inner border of the foot, articulating with the internal cuneiform. 2d Metatarsal, is the longest; its base has 3 facets for articulation with the 3 cuneiform bones in the recess formed by the shortness of the middle cuneiform. 3d Metatarsal, has 2 facets on the inner side of its base, besides the facets for the internal cuneiform and the 4th metatarsal bone. 4th Metatarsal, articulates with the cuboid bone, and also with the internal cuneiform. 3th Metatarsal, articulates obliquely with the cuboid bone, and has a tuber- cular projection on the outer surface of its base, which forms the guide to Iley’s operation. Describe the Phalanges of the Foot. They number 14 as in the hand, the great toe having 2, the other toes 3 each. They are long bones, each having a base, a shaft, and an anterior extremity. They are convex above, concave below, and articulate by the bases of the first row with the bones of the metatarsus. The anterior extremities of the distal phalanges^,« are expanded into surfaces for the support of the nails and pulp of the toes.