THE THYROID GLAND. 159 Splenic Substance or Pulp,—a soft, pulpy, brown-red mass, surrounding the Malpighian corpuscles, and contained in the areolae. It consists of a delicate net-work of connective-tissue corpuscles, containing pigment- granules (disintegrated blood-corpuscles), granular albuminous matter, nucleated and non-nucleated cells, and free nuclei, also red blood- corpuscles in every stage of metamorphosis. These are denominated the colored and colorless elements. Splenic Artery,—is large and tortuous, and divides at the hilum into 5 or 6 branches, each supplying a segment of the organ, and terminating either directly in the venous radicles, or in the lacunar spaces. Splenic Vein,—arises by radicles partly from the capillaries, partly from the lacunar spaces, and empties into the portal vein. Nerves,—are derived from the semi-lunar ganglion of the solar plexus and the right pneumogastric, forming the Splenic Plexus. THE THYROID GLAND. Describe the Thyroid Gland. It is a bi-lobed organ, about 3 inches in length, situated on the sides of the upper 2 or 3 rings of the trachea, and con- sisting of minute closed vesicles containing a yellow-colored fluid, surrounded by a dense plexus of capillaries, and connected together by areolar tissue. Its— Isthmus,—connects the lower third of each lobe together, passing in front of the trachea. It is occasionally absent. Pyramid,—is a third lobe, which sometimes arises from the left lobe, or from the left upper border of the isthmus. Levator Glandules Thyroidece,—are muscular bands occasionally found extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the isthmus of the gland or its pyramid. Name the Arteries of the Thyroid Gland. They are very large, anas- tomose freely, and are the— Superior Thyroid,—branch of the external carotid, arising therefrom below the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and giving off the following branches, viz.— Muscular. Hyoid. Superior Laryngeal. Glandular. Superficial Descending. Crico-thyroid. Middle Thyroid, Artery of Neubauer, or Arteria Thyroidea Ima,—is occasionally found arising from the innominate artery or directly from the arch of the aorta, passing upwards along the front of the trachea. Inferior Thyroid, branch of the thyroid axis, gives off— Laryngeal Branch. (Esophageal Branches. Tracheal Branches. Ascending Cervical.