114 ANATOMY. Digital, 4 Dranches supplying the sides of the 3 outer toes and the outel side of the 2d toe; its inner side, together with the great toe, being sup- plied by the Digital Branches of the Dorsalis Pedis Communicating. Describe the Pulmonary Artery. It alone of the arteries carries venous blood, which it conveys from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It is only about 2 inches long, and nearly all within the pericardium; arising from the right ventricle in front of the ascending aorta, passing upwards and back- wards to the under surface of the arch of the aorta, where it bifurcates, and is connected to the aorta by a fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus. Its terminal branches are the— Right and Left Pulmonary Arteries, the latter being the shorter of the two; pass horizontally outwTards to the roots of their respective lungs, where each divides into two branches, which again and again subdivide to ramify through- out the lung tissue and end in the capillaries of those organs. ARTERIAL ANASTOMOSES. Describe the Anastomosis around the Shoulder-joint. It is formed by the following 8 arteries, viz.— Suprascapular, br. of thyroid axis. Ant. Circumflex, br. of axillary. Post. Circumflex, br. of axillary. Acromial, br. of acromio-thoracic. Recurrent Interosseous, br. of posterior interosseous. Anterior Ulnar Recurrent, br. of ulnar. Posterior Ulnar Recurrent, br. of ulnar. Posterior Scapular, br. of transv. colli. Subscapular, br. of axillary. Dorsalis Scapulce, br. of subscapular. Infraspinous, br. of dorsalis scapulae. What Arteries Anastomose around the Eibow-joint ? The— Superior Profunda, br. of brachial. Radial Recurrent, br. of radial Inferior Profunda, br. of brachial. Anastomotica Magna, br. of brachial. Posterior Articular, br. of superior profunda. What Arteries Anastomose around the Hip-joint ? They are the Gluteal, Iliolumbar, and Circumflex Iliac, with the External Circumflex. Obturator and Sciatic, with the Internal Circumflex. Comes Nervi Ischiadici, with the Perforating branches of the Profunda. Name the Arteries Anastomosing around the Knee-joint. The— Descending, br. of ext. circumflex. Sup. Int. Articular, br. of popliteal. Anastomotica Magna, br. of femoral. Inf. Ext. Articular, br. of popliteal. Inferior Perforatbig, br. of profunda. Inf. Int. Articular, br. of popliteal. Superior Ext. Articular, br. of popliteal. Recurrent Tibial, br. of anterior tibial. How is the Collateral Circulation established after Ligature of the Carotid or Subclavian ? By the following anastomoses, viz.— Superior Thyroid, br. of external carotid, with the Inferior Thyroid, br. of the thyroid axis, from the subclavian.