144 VISCERAL ANATOMY. groove by the union of its margins. A Cavity of Reserve for each tooth is then formed by the closure of the secondary dental groove, from the floor of which another papilla arises to form the germ of the permanent tooth. The dental pulps now take the forms of teeth, a thin lamina of dentine appears and increases from without inward, the enamel organ and membrane are formed, and when calcification has advanced sufficiently, the pressure of the teeth causes the absorption of the gum above them, the septa ossify and the eruption of the teeth occurs. The Cement is formed from the periodental membrane, at a later period of life. THE MOUTH. Describe the Mouth. It is an oval cavity formed by the lips, cheeks, jaws, palate and tongue, forming the superior portion of the alimentary canal, and opening posteriorly into the pharynx by the fauces. It presents the teeth (already described), the tongue (to be described), and also the— Hard Palate, formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and covered with mucous membrane; forms the roof of the mouth. Soft Palate, formed by 5 muscles on each side, viz., the levator palati, tensor palati, palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, and the azygos uvulae;—the latter forming with its fellow the Uvula, a descending muscular projection. Anterior Pillars of the Fauces,—arch downwards and forwards to the base of the tongue, and contain the palato-glossi muscles. Posterior Pillars of the Fauces,—arch downwards and backwards to the sides of the pharynx, and contain the palato-pharyngei muscles. Jsthmus Faucium,—the space bounded by the pillars, the free border of the palate, and the base of the tongue. Tonsils,—are small, elongated, glandular bodies, situate done on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior pillars. Each has 12 or 15 openings on its surface leading to follicular depressions within the gland, and lies close to the inter- nal carotid artery. Openings of Steno's Ducts,—from the parotid glands, are situated internally one on each cheek, opposite the 2d upper molar tooth. Openings of Wharton's Ducts,— from the sub-maxillary glands, one at each side of the frenum of the tongue.