74 ANATOMY. tilage. Action, to elevate the pharynx. Nerves, glosso-pharyngeal, pharyn- geal plexus. The former nerve crosses this muscle in passing to the tongue. Levator Palati, from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and from the Eustachian tube,—into the posterior surface of the soft palate. Action, to elevate the soft palate. Nerve, facial, through the Vidian and petrosal. Tensor Palati, from the scaphoid fossa of the sphenoid bone and the Eusta- chian tube,—reflected around the hamular process,—into the anterior surface of the soft palate, and the* horizontal portion of the palate bone. Action, to tense the palate. Nerz>e, a branch from the otic ganglion. Azygos Uvulae, from the posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the soft palate,—into the uvula. Action, possibly to raise the uvula. Nerve, facial, through the Vidian and petrosal. This muscle is wrongly named, as it is double. Palato-glossus (anterior pillar of the fauces), from the anterior surface of the soft palate laterally,—into the side and dorsum of the tongue. Action, con- strictor isthmi faucium. Nerves, palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion. Palato-pharyngeus (posterior pillar of the fauces), from the soft palate,—into the side of the pharynx and the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, having joined the stylo-pharyngeus. Action, to close the posterior nares. Nerves, palatine branches from Meckel’s ganglion. Rectus Capitis AntEcus Major, from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical vertebrae by 4 slips,—into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Action, to flex the head. Nerves, sub-occipital and deep branches of cervical plexus. This rrtuscle is a con- tinuation of the scalenus anticus. Rectus Capitis AntEcus Minor, from the anterior surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, and the root of its transverse process,—into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Action, to flex the head. Nerves, sub-occipital and deep branches of the cervical plexus. Rectus Lateralis, from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, —into the jugular process of the occipital bone. Action, to draw the head laterally. Nerve, sub-occipital. Longus Colli, 3 portions,—the superior oblique, from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the 3d, 4th, and 5th cervical vertebrae, into a tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas:—inferior oblique, from the bodies of the first 2 or 3 dorsal vertebrae, into the transverse processes of the 5th and 6th cervical:—vertical portion from the bodies of the lower 3 cervical and upper 3 dorsal vertebrae, to the bodies of the 2d, 3d, and 4th cervical.