185 THE TESTES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Globus Major?—is formed by the coni vasculosi, or efferent ducts of the testis, which therein open into the single duct which forms the epi- didymis. Body?—is formed by the convolutions of the tube, held together by fine connective tissue, and is the central portion. Globus Minor?—the lower expanded portion, similarly formed, and connected to the testis by fibrous tissue. Vasculum Aberrans?1—a narrow tube, sometimes found opening into the canal of the epididymis near its lower end, and ending in a blind ex- tremity. Hydatids of Morgagni,—small pedunculated bodies, found attached to the epididymis or to the upper end of the testicle. One of them is believed to be the remains of the duct of Muller. (See Com- pend of Physiology, page 131.) Fig. 92. Describe the Vas Deferens.10 It is the continuation of the epididymis, and is the excretory duct of the testicle. Beginning at the globus minor it ascends along the back of the spermatic cord to the external abdominal ring, where it enters the inguinal canal, and penetrates the abdominal cavity through the internal abdominal ring. Descending into the pelvis it passes between the bladder and the rectum, along the inner side of the vesicula seminalis, and at the base of the prostate gland it joins with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens is about 2 feet long, and has a canal of only half a line in diameter. Its walls are very dense, making it feel like a piece of wire or whip-cord when grasped between the fingers. (2 Fig. 91.) Name the Arteries of the Testicle. The Spermatic Artery 1 supplies the gland itself; but the coverings of the testicle are supplied by the— Superficial External Pudic, }- branches of the Femoral. Deep External Pudic, Superficial Perineal,—br. of the Internal Pudic, from the Int. Iliac. Cremasteric,—branch of the Epigastric, from the External Iliac. Name the Nerves of the Testicle. They are the— Ilio-inruinal, 'i TJ. . . > —branches of the Lumbar Plexus. Pio-hypogastric, ) Superficial Perineal,—branch of the Internal Tudic nerve.