176 VISCERAL ANATOMY. Describe the Tubuli Uriniferi. The uriniferous tubes begin at the Mai. pighian corpuscles in the Capsules of Muller, and end at the orifices on the surfaces of the papillae. Their various portions are the— Convoluted Tubes of Ferrein,—in the cortical substance. Looped Tubes of Henle,—descending from the former and ascending into the next mentioned. Straight Tubes of Bellini,—in the medullary substance, arranged in pyra- mids, the Pyramids of Malpighi. What are the Pyramids of Ferrein ? They are pyramidal arrangements of the tubes of Ferrein at the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. What are the Malpighian Bodies ? They are small red bodies found in the cortical substance, each formed by the dilated extremity of a tube of Fer- rein, about the y^ inch in diameter, and consisting of the— Malpighian Tuft,—a tuft of capillary vessels, the termination of some branches of the renal artery and vein.s' Capsule of Muller,c—the dilated extremity of a tube of Ferrein,^ investing the Malpighian tuft probably by two layers, similar to the pleural investment of the lungs. How is the Kidney invested ? By a dense fibrous Capsule, which is continued inwards at the hilum, to line the sides of the sinus and form sheaths around the vessels. The kidney is also surrounded by a large quantity of fat. Enumerate the various Divisions of the Renal Vessels. They are all derived from the Renal Artery and the Renal Vein, but in their course have received different names, as follows, viz.— Renal Artery,—branch of the abdominal aorta. Divides into the— Primary Branches, 4 or 5,—arising just external to the hilum, again sub- divide and enter in the columns of Bertin as the Arteriae Propriae Renales, which .form— Arterial Arches,—over the bases of the pyramids, and divide into ascend- ing and descending branches. Interlobular Arteries, or Ascending Branches,—supply the cortical sub- stance, and end in the Stars of Verheyen. (See next page.) Arteriolce Rectce, or Descending Branches,—supply the medullary pyra- mids, ending in venous plexuses therein. Afferent Vessels,—to the Malpighian bodies, from the ascending branches. Fig. 87. O