THE CRANIAL NERVES. 129 the mass in laminated shape, and is traversed by curved furrows, between the laminae. A vertical section gives an appearance called the Arbor Vitce. Corpus Dentation, is a capsule of gray matter in the centre of the white and is open anteriorly. It is sometimes called the ganglion of the cere- bellum. THE SPINAL CORD. Describe the Spinal Cord. It is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is situated in the spinal canal. Its length is about 16 inches, terminating at the lower border of the 1st lum&ar vertebra in the Cauda Equina. It is cylin- drical in general form, with 2 enlargements, one in the cervical region, the other in the lumbar. It is composed of gray and white matter, the gray being inside (instead of outside, as in the cerebrum), and arranged so as to present a crescentic appearance in horizontal section, joined by a transverse commis- sure, and forming, by their extremities, the Anterior and Posterior Horns, from which regions respectively the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves have their apparent origin. Membranes of the cord are 3, as in the brain,—dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. The Dura Mater is not adherent to the spinal column, but is connected thereto by fibrous tissue. The Arachnoid is arranged as on the brain, its sub-arachnoid space being filled with its fluid, for the protection of the cord. The Pia Mater has a fibrous band on each side, the ligamentum denticulatum, connecting it to the dura mater by some 20 serrations. Fissures, number 8,—the anterior and posterior median, the anterior and posterior lateral on each side, and the two posterior intermediary in the • cervical region. Columns, are 8 in number, 4 on each side of the cord,—an anterior, lateral, posterior, and posterior median. The Anterior is continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla; the Lateral, with the lateral column of the medulla; the Posterior, with the restiform body; the Posterior-median, with the posterior pyramid. Central Canal, or Ventricle of the Cord, extends through its entire length in the foetus and in some adults, but is usually closed except for one-half inch below its orifice in the floor of the 4th ventricle. THE CRANIAL NERVES. Describe each Cranial Nerve, stating its function, apparent and deep origin, foramen of exit, principal branches and distribution. There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves (9 according to Willis), of which those from the 6th to the 12th inclusive have their deep origi-n wholly or in part from the floor of the 4th ventricle. They are the— I