VISCERAL ANATOMY. 200 ceedingly elastic, and curls up inwardly upon itself, when detached from the true cornea. At the corneal margin it breaks up into fibres, which are continuous with the ligamentum peclinatum of the iris. Posterior Epithelial Layer,—a single layer of flattened, polygonal, trans- parent, nucleated cells, forming the endothelium of the membrane of Descemet or Demours, and the epithelial lining of the aqueous chamber. # The Uveal Tract. Describe the Choroid. It is the posterior portion of the middle tunic of the eyeball, -3^ to inch thick, and extends from the optic nerve entrance to the ora serrata, a little in front of the equator. It is highly vascular, of dark-brown color, connected to the sclerotic by the Lamina Fusca, terminates anteriorly in the Ciliary Processes, and is composed of four layers, as follows :— Tunica Vasculosa,—externally, consists of the venae vorticosae and the larger arterial branches. Membrana Ruyschiana, or Chorio-capillaris, the middle layer—consists of a fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels. Limiting Membrane,—a structureless hyaline membrane, covering the inner surface of the capillary layer. Pigmentary Layer, internally,—a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells, loaded with pigment of a brown black color, which is absent in albinos, and of slight amount in blondes. [Considered by many anatomists the 10th layer of the retina.] Arteries of the Choroid,—are the short posterior ciliary, and recurrent branches from the long posterior and anterior ciliary. (See p. 105.) Veins,2—unite into 4 or 6 Venae Vorticosae,4 which pass out through the sclerotic near its equator. Nerves,3—derived from 3d, 5th, and sympathetic, through the long and short ciliary nerves. (See p. 137.) What are the Ciliary Processes ? They are 70 or 80 folds, formed by the anterior prolongation of the middle and internal layers of the choroid on the inner surface of the ciliary muscle, being received into corresponding folds on the suspensory ligament of the lens. They are about T\j- inch in length, and form a curtain-like expansion behind the iris. Describe the Ciliary Body.5 It is the portion of the uveal tract between the choroid and the iris,6 and consists of ciliary muscle covered by choroidal stroma and the ciliary processes. The— Ciliary Muscle or Muscle of Bowman,—is a ring of involuntary muscular fibres, supplied by the 3d nerve; is thickest anteriorly, thin posteriorly. Its fibres arise from the corneo-sclerotic junction, and pass backwards to