THE PARIETAL BONES. 19 Between the two tables of the vertical portion in the adult are the— Frontal Sinuses, two spaces at the anterior inferior part of the bone, which are lined with mucous membrane, and open into the middle meatus of the nose by means of an Infundibulum for each. Describe its horizontal portion, or orbital plates. They each present the following points, viz.— Fossa, for the lachrymal gland, near the external angular process. Depression, at the nasal margin for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. Ethmoidal Notch, having the following foramina on its margin. Anterior Ethmoidal Foramen, for anterior ethmoidal vessels and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Posterior Ethmoidal Foramen, for posterior ethmoidal vessels. Grooves, on the cranial surface, for branches of the anterior and middle meningeal arteries. Describe its articulations, development, and muscles. The frontal articulates with 12 bones,—the sphenoid, ethmoid, 2 parietal, 2 nasal, 2 supe- rior maxillary, 2 lachrymal, and 2 malar. It is developed by 2 centres in mem- brane, 1 for each lateral half. The muscles attached to it are 3 pairs,—the temporal, corrugatar supercilii, and orbicularis palpebrarum. THE PARIETAL BONES. Describe tbeir general characteristics. They are 2 quadrilaterally-shaped bones situated at the superior and lateral regions of the cranium. The supe- rior border of each joins the other by the Sagittal Suture ; the anterior borde1* joins the frontal bone by part of the Coronal Suture; the posterior border articulates with the occipital, forming the Lambdoidal Suture; the inferior border with the sphenoid and temporal bones. Forming the lateral walls of the skull they are named parietal, from paries, a wall. Describe the points on each Parietal bone. Externally the bone is con- vex and presents for examination,— Temporal Ridge, continuous with the same on the frontal bone. Parietal Eminence, the point where ossification commenced. Parietal Foramen, close to the upper border, transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus. Is not constant. Internally, the bone is concave, and marked by— Depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and for the cerebral convolutions. Furrows, for branches of the middle meningeal artery. Groove, for the lateral sinus, at the posterior inferior angle. Half-groove, along the upper border, for the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. 2