89 MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. Extensor Minimi Digiti/ from the common tendon and the intermuscular septa,—into the 2d and 3d phalanges of the little finger, with the tendon derived from the common extensor. Action, as named. Nerve, posterior interosseous. Extensor Carpi UlnarisJ from the common tendon, the middle one-third of the posterior border of the ulna, and the fascia of the forearm,—into the base of the 5th metacarpal bone. Action, to extend the wrist. Nerve, posterior interosseous. Anconeus,£ from the external condyle of the humerus, posteriorly,—into the side of the olecranon, and upper one-third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna. Action, to extend the forearm. Nerve, the musculo-spiral. Supinator Brevis, from the external condyle of the humerus, the external lateral and orbicular liga- ments, and an oblique line on the ulna,—into the inner surface of the neck of the radius, the outer edge of its bicipital tuberosity, and the oblique line. Action, to supinate the hand. Nerve, posterior in- terosseous, which pierces it. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis,14 from the pos- terior surfaces of the shafts of the radius and ulna, and the interosseous ligament,—into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Action, to extend the thumb. Nerve, posterior interosseous. Extensor Primi Intemodii Pollicis,» from the pos- terior surface of the shaft of the radius and the in- terosseous membrane,—into the base of the 1st phalanx of the thumb. Action,, to extend the thumb. Nerve, posterior interosseous. Extensor Secundi Intemodii Pollicis,from the shaft of the ulna poste- riorly and the interosseous membrane,—into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Action, to extend the thumb. Nerve, posterior inter- osseous. Extensor Indicis, from the shaft of the ulna posteriorly and the interosseous membrane,—into the 2d and 3d phalanges of the index finger with the tendon of the common extensor. Action, to extend the index finger. Nerve, posterior interosseous. 8 *