MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 95 tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gracilis, and sartorius, forming the Inner Hamstring. Action, to flex the leg and rotate it outwards. Nerve, great sciatic. Semi-tendinosus,/' from the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon4 common to it and the long head of the biceps, and from the adjacent aponeurosis,— into the shaft of the tibia at its upper and inner surface, its tendon curving around the inner tuberosity. Action, to flex the leg upon the thigh. Nerve, great sciatic. Semi-membranosus,^ from the tuberosity of the ischium above the origin of the above-named muscles,—into the inner tuberosity of the tibia; its tendon dividing into 3 parts, one over the popliteus muscle, and another forming the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Action, to flex the leg, and rotate it inwards. Nerve, great sciatic. External Rotators of the Hip-joint are —the 3 adductors, pyriformis, a obturators, 2 gemelli, quadratus femoris, pectineus, psoas magnus, iliacus, sar- torius, and posterior half of the gluteus medius. Internal Rotators of the Hip-joint are 2]^,—the tensor vaginae femoris, gluteus minimus, and the anterior half of the gluteus medius. MUSCLES OF THE LEG. Muscles of the leg arranged in groups Tibialus Anticus. Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Extensor Longus Digitorum. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantar is. Popliteus. of threes. (Pancoast.) Tibialus Posticus. Flexor Longus Pollicis. Flexor Longus Digitorum. Peroneus Longus. Peroneus Brevis. Peroneus Tertius. Tibialis Anti cus3 (Flexor Tarsi Tibialis), from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the shaft of the tibia externally, the interosseous membrane, deep fascia, and intermuscular septum,—through the inner canal in the anterior annular ligament into the inner and plantar surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the 1st metatarsal. Action, to flex the tarsus on the leg, and elevate the inner border of the foot. Nerve, anterior tibial. Extensor Proprius Pollicis,5 from the middle two-fourths of the fibula ante- riorly and the interosseous membrane,—through the 2d canal in the anterioi annular ligament,—into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Action, to extend that toe. Nerve, anterior tibial. Extensor Longus Digitorum,4/nw* the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the upper three-fourths of the shaft of the fibula anteriorly, interosseous membrane, deep fascia, and intermuscular septa —into the 2d and 3d phalanges of P»