49 BONES OF THE HAND. Scaphoid, 5. Semilunar, 5. Cuneiform, 3. Pisiform, 1. Trapezium, 4. Trapezoid, 4. Os-magnum, 7. Unciform, 5. What peculiarities have the Carpal bones ? The first three enter into the formation of the wrist-joint; the pisiform does not, but is wholly without it, and may be considered a mere appendage of the carpus. When the hand is in pronation — The Scaphoid, or boat-shaped bone, has a tuberosity on its outer side, its largest auricular facet is uppermost, and a transverse groove crosses its posterior surface. The Semilunar Bone has a crescentic facet externally, and a convex facet superiorly. The Cuneiform Bone is wedge-shaped, its convex surface above, and has an isolated facet for the pisiform articulation. The Pisiform Bone is the smallest, and has but one facet, which lies poste- riorly when the bone is in position. The Trapezium has a deep groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and a saddle-shaped facet, inferiorly. The Trapezoid is small and quadrilateral, bent on itself, with a saddle-shaped facet looking downwards. The Os-magnum has a head looking upwards, a neck, and a body; is the largest bone of the carpus, and has a tubercle on the inner side of the base. The Unciform Bone is triangular, with a concavity which lies to the outer side; and the unciform process, long and curved, projecting from its palmar surface. Describe the Metacarpus. The 5 metacarpal bones are placed between the carpus and the phalanges, are long bones, and each has a head, shaft, and base. Their heads articulate with the respective phalanges. 1st Metacarpal Bonef articulates with the trapezium, is shorter than the others by one-third, and its base has but 1 articular facet. This bone is classed among the phalanges by Professor W. H. Pancoast. 2d Metacarpal Bone,e articulates with 3 bones of the carpus,—the trape- zium, trapezoid, and os-magnum ; its base is large, and has 4 articular facets. jd Aletacarpal Bonef articulates with 1 bone of the carpus,—the os-mag- num ; its base has a projecting process on the radial side, and 2 small facets on the opposite side. 4th Metacarpal Boneg articulates with 2 bones of the carpus and with the adjacent metacarpal bones; its base is small, and has 2 circular facets, 1 on each side. gth Aletacarpal Bonef articulates with 1 carpal bone,—the unciform; its base has 1 lateral articular facet. 5 D