110 ANATOMY. transverse colon. Arising about one-fourth inch below the coeliac axis, it arches forwards, downwards, and to the left, giving off— Inferior Pancreatico-duodenal. Ileo-colic. Vasa Intestini Tenuis. Colica Dextra and Media. Inferior Mesenteidcf supplies the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and most of the rectum, giving off the following branches:— Colica Sinistra. Sigmoid. Superior Hemorrhoidal. Supra-renalf arise one on each side, opposite the origin of the superior mesenteric, passing to the supra-renal capsules. Renal? one from each side, just below the preceding, pass to the kidney, at the hilum having the middle place between the ureter behind and the renal vein in front. U. A. V. (you ’ave!) Spermatic,10 one on each side, in the male through the inguinal canal to the testes; in the female to the ovaries, uterus, and the skin of the labia and groins. Lumbar,8 usually 4 on each side, analogous to the intercostals. They each divide into two branches, the— Dorsal, giving off a spinal branch. Abdominal. Middle Sacral}'1 arises just at the bifurcation of the aorta; it descends along the sacrum and coccyx, giving off numerous branches. Describe the Common Iliac Arteries. They extend from the bifurcation of the aorta at the 4th lumbar vertebra to near the lumbo-sacral articulation, where they each divide into the external15 and internal iliac.14 They are about 2 inches in length, the right being a little longer than the left one, and each is crossed by the ureter, just before its bifurcation. Describe the Internal Iliac.14 It is about 1 pz inches long, and extends from the lumbo-sacral articulation to the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. From the anterior trunk are given off from above downwards, the— Superior Vesical, the remaining pervious part of the foetal hypogastric artery. It sends branches to the vas deferens and the ureter; and one, the Middle Vesical, to the base of the bladder. Obturator, through the canal in the obturator foramen to the thigh, where it divides into an internal and external branch. Within the pelvis it gives off an ili-ac, vesical, and a pubic branch. In one out of 3^ cases this artery arises from the epigastric. Inferior Vesical, to the bladder, prostate gland, and vesiculae seminales. In the female this artery is called the Vaginal. Middle Hemorrhoidal, to the rectum. Uterine, in the female, anastomosing with the ovarian.