92 ANATOMY. muscle and the fascia lata; extending from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubic bone. Fig. 47. Tensor Vaginae Femoris,4 from the anterior part of the outer lip of the iliac crest, and the anterior superior spinous process,—into the fascia lata later- ally, for one-fourth down the thigh. Action, a tensor of the fascia lata. Nerve, superior gluteal. Sartorius,5 from the anterior superior spine of the ilium2 and half of the notch below it,—into the upper internal surface of the shaft of the tibia. Action, to flex and cross the legs. Nerve, anterior crural. Quadriceps Extensor, includes the rectus, vastus internus and externus, and the crureus muscles. Its tendon contains the patella. Rectus Femoris,6 by two tendons, the Straight from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, the Reflected from a groove above the brim of the acetabulum, —into the tuberosity of the tibia by the tendon9 common to this and the next 3 muscles. Action, to extend the leg. Nerve, anterior crural. Vastus Externus,7 from the anterior border of the great trochanter and the whole length of the linea aspera,—into the tuberosity of the tibia, by the common tendon. Vastus Internus8 and Crureus are one muscle, arising from the inner lip of the linea aspera and nearly the whole of the shaft of the femur in front and laterally from the trochanters down to within the lower one-fourth of the bone,—into the tuberosity of the tibia by the common extensor tendon. Action, to extend the leg. Nerve, anterior crural. Subcrureus, froi?i the lower part of the femur anteriorly,—into the synovial pouch behind the patella. Action, to draw up the synovial sac. Nerve, anterior crural. Gracilis,15 from the inner margin of the rami of the pubes and ischium,—into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia below the tuberosity. Action, to flex and adduct the leg. Nerve, obturator. Pectineus,12 from the ilio-pectineal line, and the bone in front thereof, also from an expansion of Gimbernat’s ligament,—into the rough line extending