67 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. What are the Muscles? They are the active organs of locomotion, formed of bundles of reddish fibres endowed with the property of shortening themselves upon irritation, which is called muscular contractility, and chemically consisting of syntonin, or muscular fibrin. How are the Muscles divided ? Into 2 great classes, (1) Voluntary, Striped or Muscles of aninial life, comprise those which are under the control of the will. (2) Involuntary, Unstriped, or Muscles of organic life, are those which are not under the control of the will. Voluntary Muscular Fibre consists of fasciculi about inch in diameter, each surrounded by a tubular membranous sheath, the perimysium; and marked by fine striae passing around them in curved parallel lines about yy^^ inch apart. These fasciculi are formed of fibrillce, each about y^^-g- inch thick, also striated, presenting the appearance of a row of minute particles, the “sarcous elements” of Bowman, and surrounded by cellular tissue, the sarco- lemma. Involuntary Muscular Fibre consists of flattened fusiform or spindle-shaped fibres, averaging about inch in breadth, consisting of elongated cells, and bound together in bundles by areolar tissue. These fibres are found in the alimentary canal, in the posterior wall of the trachea, in the bronchi, the ducts of certain glands, in the ureters, bladder, urethra, genitalia of both sexes, walls of all arteries and most veins and lymphatics, in the iris and ciliary muscle, and in the skin. What are Tendons and Aponeuroses ? Tendons are white, glistening cords or bands formed of white fibrous tissue almost entirely, have few vessels and no nerves, and serve to connect the muscles with the structures on which they act. Aponeuroses are fibrous membranes, of similar structure and appearance, and serve the same purpose. What are Fasciae? They are laminae of variable thickness which invest [fascia, a bandage) the softer structures. The superficial fascia is composed of fibro-areolar tissue, and is found beneath the skin almost over the whole body. The deep fascia is of aponeurotic structure, dense, inelastic, and fibrous, ensheathing the muscles and affording some of them attachment, also the vessels and nerves, and binding down the whole into a shapely mass. To what Structures are Muscles attached? To the periosteum and peri- chondrium of bone and cartilage, to the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and to ligaments. In the latter case only are their tendons in direct contact with the tissue on which they are to act. How many Muscles are Double-bellied ? Five,—the occipito-frontalis, biventer cervicis, digastric, omo-hyoid, and the diaphragm.