ANATOMY. (2.) The scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform bones are united by an ir regular number of Dorsal and Plantar and 4 Interosseus ligaments, which latter are arranged transversely. (3.) The 2 rows of bones are united by 7 ligaments viz.— Superior Astragalo-scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-scaphoid. Superior Calcaneo-cuboid. Short Calcaneo-cuboid. Superior Calcaneo-scaphoid. Long Calcaneo-cuboid. Interosseous, or Internal Calcaneo-cuboid. Describe the Tarso-metatarsal Articulations. They are 5 arthrodial joints formed by the bases of the metatarsal bones with the adjacent bones of the tarsus, the 2d metatarsal bone articulating with all 3 cuneiform in the recess formed by the shortness of the second cuneiform. They are united by Dorsal, Plantar, and 3 Interosseous Ligaments. The 2d metatarsal bone has 3 dorsal ligaments, 1 from each cuneiform bone. The interosseous ligaments pass from the 2d and 3d metatarsal bones to the internal and Gx- ternal cuneiform. Describe the Synovial Membranes of the Tarsus and Metatarsus. They are 6 in number, and are situated as follows, viz.— The First, between the os calcis and the astragalus, behind the interosseous ligament. The Second’ between the same bones in front of the interosseous ligament, also between the astragalus and the scaphoid. The Third, between the os calcis and the cuboid. The Fourth, between the scaphoid and the 3 cuneiform bones, running backwards between the scaphoid and the cuboid, forwards between the cuneiform bones, between the external cuneiform and the cuboid, between the middle and external cuneiform and the bases of the 2d and 3d metatarsal, passing also between the bases of these bones and the 4th metatarsal. The Fifth, between the cuboid and the 4th and 5th metatarsal bones, also running forwards between their bases. The Sixth, between the internal cuneiform and the base of the 1st meta- tarsal bone. Describe the Metatarso-metatarsal Articulations. The metatarsal bones are connected together, except the first, at their bases by Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligaments; and all 5 are connected at their digital extremities by the Transverse Metatarsal Ligament. Describe the remaining Articulations of the Foot. The metatarso- phalangeal and the phalangeal articulations are similar to those in the hand, each having an Interior or Plantar, and 2 lateral Ligaments. The extenso* tendons of the foot supply the places of posterior ligaments.