103 THE ARTERIES. the 4th lumbar vertebra. It is divided into the arch, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta; and the arch is subdivided into the ascending,5 transverse,6 and descending 12 portions. The upper border of the arch is generally situated about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. The branches of the aorta are,—• From the Arch,—2 Coronary.4 Left Common Carotid.10 Innominate.7 Left Subclavian.n From the Thoracic,—Pericardiac. (Esophageal. 20 Intercostals. Bronchial. Posterior Mediastinal. From the Abdominal,—2 Phrenic. f Gastric. Cccliac Axis. ■< Hepatic. I Splenic. Superior Mesenteric. 2 Supra-renal. 2 Renal. 2 Spermatic. Inferior Mesenteric. 8 Lumbar. Sacra Media. 2 Common Iliac. Describe the Coronary Arteries. They are 2 Fig. 54. in number, a right and a left,4 arise from the aorta behind the semilunar valves and run in the ver- tical grooves of the heart, the left artery in front, to supply the tissue of that organ. Describe the Innominate.7 It arises from the summit of the arch of the aorta, is \)/z inch long, and divides behind the right sterno-clavicular joint into the Right Common Carotid9 and Right Subcla- vian,8 these arteries on the left side of the body aris- ing directly from the arch of the aorta.1011 It some- times sends off a Middle Thyroid (artery of Neubauer) which may arise directly from the arch of the aorta. The innominate is sometimes absent, and not infrequently varies in length from an inch to two or more. Describe the Common Carotid. Arising differently (see above), the two carotids are similarly described, except that the left is longer and deeper than the right one. Their course is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the angle of the lower jaw and the mastoid process to the sterno- clavicular articulation. At the lower part of the neck they are separated only by the width of the trachea, and they are each contained in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia with the internal jugular vein externally and the pneumo- gastric nerve between the artery and vein. On the front of the sheath lies the descendens noni nerve (descending branch of the 9th or hypoglossal). The artery lies beneath the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and is crossed about its middle by the omo-hyoid muscle and the middle thyroid vein.