ANATOMY. 134 Posterior, or Long Thoracic, external respiratory nerve of Bell, to the ser*H- tus magnus, arising from the 5th and 6th cervical. Suprascapular, from the 1st trunk of the plexus, to the scapular muscles. Below the clavicle are 12, the,— 2 Anterior Thoracic, from outer and inner cords to the pectoral muscles. j Subscapular, from the posterior cord, to the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles. Circumflex, from the posterior cord, to the muscles and integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder-joint. Musculo-cutaneous, from the outer cord, to the forearm externally, piercing the coraco-brachialis muscle. Internal Cutaneous, from the inner cord, to the arm and forearm. Lesser Internal Cutaneotis (nerve of Wrisberg), from the inner cord to the inner side of the arm. Is sometimes wanting, sometimes connected with the intercosto-humeral. Median, from outer and inner cords, passes between the two heads of the pro- nator radii teres, supplying the pronators, flexors, first 2 lumbricales, and the integument of the thumb, 2yz fingers, and the radial side of the palm. Its branches are all in the palm, the— Muscular. Anterior Interosseus. Palmar Cutaneous. Ulnar, from the inner cord, passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris at the inner condyle of the humerus, supplying the elbow- and wrist-joints, several muscles, and the palmar and dorsal integument of the little finger and half of the ring finger. Branches are the— 2 Articular. Cutaneous. Superficial Palmar. Muscular. Dorsal. Deep Palmar. Musculo-spiral, from the posterior cord, accompanies the superior profunda artery and vein in the spiral groove of the humerus, and at the external condyle it divides into the radial and posterior interosseus nerves. Its branches are— Muscular. Cutaneous. Radial. Posterior Interosseous. The Radial supplies the outer side and ball of the thumb, and the dorsal integument of 2y fingers. The Posterior Interosseus supplies all the muscles on the back of the fore- arm except 3, and also sends a filament to the wrist-joint. What is the Intercosto-humeral Nerve? It is the lateral cutaneous branch of the 2d intercostal (anterior branch of the 2d dorsal) ; it pierces the external intercostal muscle and crosses the axilla, joining with a filament from the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), and supplying the skin of the upper half of the inside of the arm.