223 THE INTERNAL EAR. semicircular canals open into it by 5 orifices. The wall of the utricle has attached to it the— Otoliths, or Ear-stones,—a powder, consisting of crystals of carbonate of calcium, to inch in diameter, held together by a mucoid substance. Macula Acoustica,—See below, under Saccule. Describe the Membranous Semicircular Canals. They are 3 canals, having the same shape as the osseous ones in which they are contained, being fastened thereto by their convex curves, and elsewhere surrounded by peri- lymph, except at the ampullae, where they fill the osseous canals. They open into the utricle by 5 orifices. What is the Saccule ? It is a flask-shaped, membranous sac, about inch in diameter, attached at one point to the utricle, and also to the fovea hemispherica of the vestibule, being elsewhere surrounded by perilymph, and containing endolymph. It communicates with the utricle through the small canal in the aqueductus vestibuli, and also with the membranous cochlea by its neck, the— Canalis Reuniens,—about 7b inch long and inch in diameter, is V- shaped, its arms opening respectively into the saccule and the vestibular end of the membranous cochlea. Macula Acoustica,—is a dense, circular point, inch in diameter, on the wall of both the utricle and the saccule, formed by a thickening of the connective tissue where the fibres of the vestibular nerve enter it. Describe the Membranous Cochlea. This Dortion of the membranous labyrinth, also called the Ductus Cochlearis, commences in the lower end of the osseous cochlea and send at its summit in a closed extremity. It is attached on one side to the lamina spiralis, on the other side to the outer wall of the osseous cochlea. It is formed by the Membrana Basilaris3 below, the ]\Ie7nbrane of Reissner 4 on one side, and the periosteum of the cochlear wall on the outer side, its cross section being of a triangular form. It is filled with endolymph, and contains the Organ of Corti 9 covered by the Membrana Tectoriaxx The— Limbus Lamince Spiralis,—is the soft structure on the edge of the lamina spiralis, and lies in the membranous cochlea. It has two lips,—an upper, Fig. hi.