157 THE PANCREAS. Fig. 76. Fundus,—touches the abdominal wall immediately below the 9th costal cartilage, and is completely invested by peritoneum. Neck,—coils twice upon itself, and empties into the Cystic Duct, which is about an inch long, and joins with the Hepatic Duct to form the Ductus Communis Choledochus. What is the Ductus Communis Choledochus ? A fibro-muscular tube, covered by peritoneum and lined with mucous membrane, about 3 inches in length, formed by the junction of the Cystic and Hepatic ducts, and emptying its contents (bile) into the descending part of the duodenum at a point about 3 inches from the pyloric orifice of the stomach, generally in common with the duct of the pancreas. The three ducts above-named are often called the Biliary Ducts. THE PANCREAS. Describe the Pancreas. The Pancreas is a racemose gland, about 7 inches long, of a grayish-white color, situated behind the stomach and in front of the first lumbar vertebra. Its structure resembles that of the salivary glands, being composed of reddish-yellow lobules, united by cellular tissue, vessels and ducts, and ending in closed pouches surrounded by a capillary plexus. The— Pancreatic Duct, or Duct of Wirsung,5—extends the whole length of the gland, and opens into the duodenum about 3 inches below the pylorus, by an orifice common to it and the ductus communis chole- dochus. Head, or Right Extremity, 1 is surrounded by the curve of the duodenum, the ductus communis chole- dochus and the pancreatico-duodenal arteries. Tail, or Left Extremity,4—lies above the left kidney and in contact with the lower end of the spleen. Body 3—is in relation anteriorly with the ascending layer of the transverse meso colon, the posterior wall of the stomach and the transverse colon; posteriorly with the aorta, portal vein, inferior vena cava, splenic vein, origin of the superior mesenteric artery, crura of the diaphragm, left kid- ney and supra-renal capsule, and the left quadratus lumborum muscle. Arteries, are the— Pancreatica Magna, and Pancreaticae Parvae, from the splenic. Pancreatico-duodenalis,—branch of the hepatic artery. Inferior Pancreatico-duodenalis,—branch of the sup. mesenteric.