THE PERITONEUM. 163 Right Ltimbar Region,—contains the ascending colon, lower halt of the right kidney, and part of the small intestine. Umbilical,—contains the transverse colon, transverse duodenum, part of the great omentum and mesentery, and part of the small intestine. Left Lumbar Region,—contains the descending colon, lower half of the left kidney, and part of the small intestine. Right Inguinal Region,—contains the right ureter, caecum, appendix vermi- formis, and the spermatic vessels of that side. Hypogastric Region,—contains part of the small intestine, the bladder in children and when distended in adults, and the uterus during pregnancy. Left Inguinal Region,—contains the left ureter and spermatic vessels, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon. THE PERITONEUM. What is the Peritoneum ? A serous membrane, forming a closed sac, its parietal layer lining the walls of the abdomen and pelvis, its visceral layer being reflected more or less completely over all the abdominal and pelvic viscera. Its free surface is covered with squamous epithelium, and is smooth, moist, and shining Its attached surface is connected to the viscera and the parietes of the abdomen by the sub-peritoneal areolar tissue. Is the Peritoneum always a closed sac ? No ! In the female it is con- tinuous with the mucous lining of the Fallopian tubes, which at their free extremities open into its cavity. Name the Divisions of the Peritoneum. The— Greater Sac,—extends over the anterior two-thirds of the liver, behind and above the stomach, below, behind, and in front of the great omentum, and below the meso-colon. Lesser Sac, or Cavity of the Great Omentum,— extends behind and below the liver and stomach, above the meso-colon, and within the great omentum. What is the Foramen of Winslow? A constriction of the peritoneal cavity connecting the two sacs, situated behind the right free border of the gastro- hepatic or lesser omentum, and formed by the gastric and hepatic arteries as they curve around to the coeliac axis. Its boundaries are as follows, viz.— Anteriorly,—the lesser omentum, containing the duodenum, hepatic artery, portal vein, and the ductus communis choledochus. Posteriorly,—the inferior vena cava, and the right crus of the diaphragm. Superiorly,—the lobus Spig^lii of the liver. Inferiorly,—the hepatic artery, curving forwards from the coeliac axis What passes through the Foramen of Winslow ? Nothing.