MUSCLES OF THE HIP AND THIGH. 91 Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, from the tip of the unciform process and the annular ligament,—into the base of the 1st phalanx of the little finger, with the preceding muscle. Action, as named. Nerve, ulnar. Opponens Minimi Digiti, from the unciform process and annular ligament,— into the whole ulnar margin of the 5th metacarpal bone. Action, a flexor of the 5th metacarpal bone. Nerve, ulnar. Lumbricales (4), from the tendons of the deep flexor,—into the expanded tendons of the common extensor, on the dorsi of the phalanges. Action, probably to flex the 1st phalanges. Nerves, median and ulnar. Dorsal Interossei (4), by 2 heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones,—into the bases of the 1st phalanges of the index, middle, and ring fingers, the middle finger having two. Action, abductors of the fingers from the median line. Nerve, ulnar. Palmar Interossei (3), from the palmar surfaces of the 2d, 4th, and 5th meta- carpal bones,—into the bases of the 1st phalanges of the same fingers. Action, adductors of the fingers. ATerve, ulnar. MUSCLES OF THE HIP AND THIGH. Psoas Magnus,11 from the bodies, transverse processes, and intervertebral substances of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae,—into the lesser trochanter of the femur, by a common tendon with the iliacus. Action, to flex and rotate the femur outwards, also to flex the trunk and pelvis on the thigh. Nerves, anterior lumbar branches. Psoas Parvus, from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and the intervertebral substance,—into the ilio-pectineal eminence, and the iliac fascia. Action, when present it is a tensor of the iliac fascia. Nerves, anterior lumbar branches. Iliacus,10 from the iliac fossa, inner margin of the iliac crest, ilio-lumbar ligament, base of the sacrum, anterior spinous processes of the ilium and the notch between them, and from the capsule of the hip-joint,—into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas magnus. Action, the same as the psoas magnus. Nerve, anterior crural. Pascia Lata, the deep fascia of the thigh, extends from Poupart’s ligament to the prominent points around the knee-joint, and from the margin of the sacrum and coccyx around the limb to the pubic arch and pectineal line. It sends two strong intermuscular septa down to the linea aspera, and con- tains the Saphenous Opening, which is formed by the reflected margins of its pubic and iliac portions. Ponparf s Ligament is made by the knife, and is only the line of junction between the aponeurosis of the external oblique