THE ARTERIES. 107 Thyroid Axis,8 at once divides into the three following branches:— Inferior Thyroid,7 to the thyroid gland, giving off,— Laryngeal Branch. CEsophageal Branches. Tracheal Branches. Ascending Cervical.9 Transversalis Colli f divides beneath the margin of the trapezius into— Superficial Cervical. Posterior Scapular. Suprascapular,12 to the shoulder-joint and the dorsum of the scapula, anas- tomosing there with the posterior- and sub-scapular. Internal Mammary,1'3 arises opposite the thyroid axis, descends upon the costal cartilages, and ends at the 6th interval, in the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric, the latter anastomosing with the deep epigastric branch of the external iliac. Its branches are the— Comes Nervi Phrenici, Pericardiac. Perforating. or Superior Phrenic. Sternal. Musculo-phrenic. Mediastinal. Anterior Intercostal. Superior Epigastric. Superior Intercostal,u gives off branches in the intercostal spaces to the posterior spinal muscles and to the spinal cord. Profunda Cervicis,10 supplies the muscles of the back of the neck, and anastomoses with the arteria princeps cervicis of the occi. pital. Describe the Axillary.5 It is the continuation of the subclavian, extend- ing from the edge of the 1st rib to the lower margin of the armpit muscles, where it becomes the brachial. It has 7 branches, viz.— Superior Thoracic, to the pectoral muscles and walls of the thorax. Acromial Thoracic, branches are thoracic, acromial, descending. Thoracica Longa, to the muscles of the chest and mammary gland. Thoracica Alaris, a small branch to the axillary glands. Subscapular, to the inferior dorsum of the scapula. Its branches anastomose with the supra- and posterior scapular, and are the— Subscapular. Dorsalis Scapulae. Median Branch. Posterior Circumflex, to the deltoid muscle and the shoulder-joint. Anterior Circumflex, to the joint and the head of the bone, anastomosing with the posterior circumflex and acromial thoracic. Describe the Brachial. It is the continuation of the axillary from the lower margin of the teres major tendon to its bifurcation into the radial and ulnar, which is usually about one-half inch below the bend of the elbow. The median nerve crosses it from the outside to the inside at its centre. Its branches are the— Superior Profunda, winds over the arm in the musculo-spiral groove, giving off the posterior articular to the elbow anastomosis.