Nerves, superior and recurrent laryngeal. Crico-arytenoideus Lateralis d (2),—from the THE LARYNX. Action, to shorten and relax the vocal chords Fig. 83. 169 upper lateral border of the cricoid cartilage, —into the posterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. Action, to rotate the arytenoids inwards and close the glottis. Nerve, recur- rent laryngeal. Thyro-arytenoideuse (2),—from the angle of the thyroid cartilage and the posterior surface of the crico-thyroid membrane,—into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid. by approximating the cartilages, and to com- press the sacculus laryngis. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. Arytenoideus (1),—from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage,—into the corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage; having oblique and transverse fibres, and filling up the posterior concave surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages. Action, by approximating the arytenoids, to close the back part of the glottis. A small fasciculus, called the Kerato-cricoideus, is sometimes found below the arytenoideus, extending from the cricoid cartilage to the inferior cornu of the thyroid. It occurs once in 5 cases, usually on one side only, but occasionally on both, and acts to fix the lower horn of the thyroid carti- lage backwards and downwards. Another small muscle is found frequently, though rarely described in the books, the Triticeo-glossus. It arises from the cartilaginous nodule in the lateral thyro hyoid ligament, and passes forwards and upwards to enter the tongue along with the kerato-glossus muscle. Describe the Muscles of the Epiglottis. They are 3 double muscles, as follows, viz.— Thyro-epiglottideus (2),—from the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage,— into the margin of the epiglottis, and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Action, to depress the epiglottis, and compress the sacculus laryngis. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. Aryteno-epiglottideus Superior (2),—from the apex of the arytenoid carti- lage,—into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Action, to constrict the supe- rior aperture of the larynx. Nerve, recurrent laryngeal. Aryteno-epiglottideus Inferior (2),—from the arytenoid cartilage just above the attachment of the superior vocal chord,—into the sacculus laryngis