14 ANATOMY. Describe their articulations, development, and muscles. Each parietal bone articulates with 5 bones,—the frontal, occipital, sphenoid, temporal, and opposite parietal. It is developed from 1 centre in membrane. The only muscle attached to it is the temporal. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. Describe its general features and surfaces. It is trapezoidal in form, curved upon itself, and placed at the posterior and inferior region of the cranium. Externally its surface is convex and presents for examination the following, viz.— External Occipital Protuberance, and Crest, for the attachment of the liga- mentum nuchoe. Superior and Inferior Curved Lines, extending outwards on each side of the external occipital crest. Foramen Magnum, transmitting the medulla oblongata and its membranes, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. Condyles, 2 in number, for articulation with the atlas vertebra. Tubercles, 1 on each condyle, for the check ligaments. Anterior Condyloid Foramina, 2, for the hypoglossal nerves. Posterior Condyloid Foramina, 2, (often absent) for veins. Jugular Processes, 2, each helping to form the foramen lacerum posterius basis cranii. Internally, the surface is concave, showing— Fossce, 4, for the cerebellar and posterior cerebral lobes. Internal Occipital Protuberance, where 6 cranial sinuses meet to form the torcular (wine-press) Herophili. Crucial Ridge, the vertical portion for the falx cerebri and falx cerebelli; the transverse portion for the tentorium cerebelli, having also a groove for the lateral sinus. Groove, for the lateral sinus, and the inferior petrosal sinus, along the postero-lateral border. Internal Openings of the foramina described above. Describe the Basilar Process of the Occipital. It lies in front of the foramen magnum, articulates with the body of the sphenoid bone, smooth and grooved internally for the medulla oblongata and pons varolii, which lie upon it; rough inferiorly for the attachment of muscles, and presenting the— Pharyngeal Spine, for the attachment of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx and its tendinous raphe. Describe its articulations and development. The occipital articulates with 6 bones,—the 2 parietal, 2 temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. It is developed by 4 centres, 1 each for the posterior part, the basilar process,