MUSCLES OF THE HIP AND THIGH. 93 from the trochanter minor to the linea aspera. Action, to flex the thigh and rotate it outwards. Nerves, obturator, accessory obturator, and anterior crural. % Adductor Longus,l3/;w// the front of the pubes,—into the middle third of the linea aspera. Action, to adduct the thigh and flex it. Nerve, obturator. Adductor Brevis, from the descending ramus of the pubes,—into the upper part of the linea aspera. Action, to adduct and flex the thigh. Nerve, obturator. Adductor Magnus,14 from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the outer margin and under surface of the tuberosity of the ischium,—into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, the whole length of the linea aspera, and by a tendon into the tubercle above the inner con- dyle of the femur. Action, to adduct the thigh pIG 48. and rotate it outwards. Nerves, obturator and great sciatic. This muscle is pierced by 4 aper- tures for the 3 superior perforating and the profunda arteries, and about the lower one-third of its insertion an angular interval is left therein, the lower opening of Hunter’s canal, for the passage of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space. Gluteus Maximus/ from the superior curved line of the ilium, the crest behind it, the last piece of the sacrum, the side of the coccyx and the great and posterior sacro-sciatic ligaments,—into the fascia lata and the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera. Action, to extend and abduct the thigh and rotate it out- wards, also to maintain the trunk erect. Nerves, inferior gluteal and a branch from the sacral plexus. ♦ Gluteus Medius,a from the ilium between the su- perior and middle curved lines, the crest between them and the fascia of the part,—into the oblique lines on the great trochanter. Action, its posterior fibres rotate the thigh outwards, its anterior fibres rotate inwards. It also abducts the thigh and draws it forwards, and assists to maintain the trunk erect. Nerve, superior gluteal. Gluteus Minimus,8 from the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines, and the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch,—into the anteriol