11 BONES. Epiphysis, or separated from the shaft by cartilage, but has become united thereto by ossification. What other names are given to Bony Prominences ? There are sev- eral adjectives applied to them from their fancied resemblances, such as— Azygos, without a fellow ; Clinoid, like a bed; Coracoid, like a crow’s beak ; Coronoid, like a crown; Hamular, hook-like; Malleolar, like a mallet; Mas- toid, like a nipple; Odontoid, tooth-like; Pterygoid, wing-like; Rostrum, a beak; Spinous, thorn-like; Styloid, pen-like; Squamous, scaly; Vaginal, en- sheathing, etc. Name the Cavities of Bones. Articular cavities are called Cotyloid, cup- like; Glenoid, shallow; Trochlear, pulley-like; Facet, if smooth; Alveolar, ox Alveoli, when socket-like. Non-articular cavities are named fossae, sinuses, aqueducts, foramina, canals, fissures, notches, cells, grooves, depressions, etc. What is the Composition of Bone ? Organic or animal matter, about y£, consisting of gelatin, vessels and fat. Inorganic, or mineral, about ^3, con- sisting of phosphate and carbonate of calcium (621/3 per cent.), with fluoride of calcium, phosphates of magnesium, sodium, and chloride of sodium (4^ percent.). Heat will remove the organic matter and leave the inorganic; dilute Nitric or Hydrochloric acid will remove the inorganic, and leave the organic. In old age the inorganic constituents predominate, and the bones are brittle; in youth the organic predominate, and epiphyseal dislocation is more common than fracture, especially in the long bones of the extremities. Describe the Structure of Bone. Bone is composed of an outer compact layer, and an inner cellular or spongy structure. It is surrounded, except at the articular cartilages, by a vascular fibrous membrane, the Periosteum, which receives the insertions of all tendons, ligaments, etc.; and the central cavity of long bones is lined by a similar structure, the Endosteum. A transverse section of bone, examined microscopically, shows— Haversian Canals, diameter inch, for the passage of vessels. Canaliculi, diameter inch, radiating from the canals, and connecting them with the lacunae. Lacunce, arranged circularly around the canals, and contain the bone-cells, appearing as irregular dark spaces. Haversian Spaces, connect the canals with the medullary spaces, and divide one Haversian system from another. An Haversian System comprises an Haversian canal with its lamellae, lacunae, and canaliculi. Concentric Lamellce of bone tissue, around the canals. Circumferential Lamellce, are bone layers binding the canals together. Interstitial Lamellce, woven in between the concentric lamellae.