THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 470 Pale-coloured malt is preferable to amber-coloured malt; if it be new, it should be left exposed to the open air oue or two days after grinding, before it be used; if old, it should be ground the one day and used the next. When it is ground too finely, it clogs the mash, and im- pedes the draining of the wort; but every grain should be bruised. When economy is an object, a quantity of molasses or muscovado sugar may be substituted for a portion of the malt; 12 lbs. of molasses, or 10 lbs. of sugar, are equal to one bushel of malt; when used, it may be dissolved in the water employed for the second and third mashing. Farnham hops are esteemed the best; Nottinghamshire, termed Northclay hops, have a rank flavour in beer newly brewed, and should therefore only be used for strong keeping beers. Worcester hops have a flavour peculiarly mild and delicate. Yeast produced from the fermentation of strong ale or porter is the best. Quantity of ale or table-beer to be brewed from a given quantity of malt and hops :— From a quarter of malt may be brewed 72 gallons of ale, or 144 of table beer; or 27 of ale, and 90 of table beer. In mashing, the quantity of water employed must exceed the beer required in the proportion of six gallons to every bushel; three will be left in the goods, and the other three evaporated in the boiling, cooling, and work- ing. The wort may be all mixed together in the gyle- tun ; or, if strong ale be required, the first and second may be fermented separately from the third, which will be small beer. If the strong ale be desired particularly fine, the second and third may be fermented together, or each mashing may be kept separate; the first for strong ale, the second for keeping beer, and the third small beer for immediate use. If the beer be not intended for keeping, one bushel of malt and ten ounces of hops will produce 12 gallons of common or table ale ; and ale brewers allow one measure of such ale to be equal to two of small beer. From one bushel of malt, therefore, may be brewed. 24 gallons of