THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 517 \ the garden, kitchen, and dairy; milk and whey is the finest of all fattening. When the pigs are put up to close feeding, they should have three meals a-day of potatoes, which have been strained, mixed with barley or any other meal, moistened with milk, whey, or water, and seasoned with a little salt; it should be given regularly, and only in such quantities as will be consumed with a relish. This will be found the best and most economical food; but where the trouble attending the preparation of it is con- sidered too great, the next best method is to mix oats with barley, in the proportion of one part to four of bar- ley, which will prevent the pigs from eating it too quick- ly ; the oats being husky, require a longer time to be chewed. Buck-wheat is a quick and good fattening, somewhat similar to barley, not so good as peas; but peas are sometimes put amongst buck, for the same pur- pose that oats are mixed with barley. Pigs that are fed from the refuse of breweries, are liable to eruptive dis- eases. Whenever grains are used for feeding, they should be fresh, and given in moderate quantities, anil should only form a part of their diet: they will also feed well on the spent hops of the breweries. Sweet whey, unless given in very moderate quantities, is injurious to pigs; but when it becomes sourish, it proves very wholesome food. It is too general a practice to pay no attention to feeding pigs until they are put up, perhaps in November or December, when, with a little pains, they might be as fat, and weigh nearly as much, at the time they begin to feed, as at the period when they are fed, which may be about four or five weeks after they are put up. For pork, they are usually fattened from six to nine months old; for bacon and hams, from nine months to a year and a half. Pigs are subject to inflammatory and eruptive dis- eases, both of which require bleeding, purgatives, and cool air in an open field. The most easy way of bleed- ing pigs is by cutting off the tail, or part of the ear. Purgative powder for pigs, jalap one dram. Should this be found insufficient, eleven or twelve grains of