THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 30 of loan ham, and a slice of lean beef; when the onions are quite sofi, mix gradually with them some rich stock ; let it boil, and strain it through a fine hair sieve, pressing the pulp of the onions with a wooden spoon ; then boil it well, skimming it all the time. Beat the meat of a boiled haddock, the spawn and body of a large lobster, or ot two small ones, in a marble mortar; add gradually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as smooth as cream ; let it boil again, and scum it. Cut the tail and claws of the lob- ster into pieces, and add them to the soup before serving it, and also some pepper, cayenne, white pepper, and a glass of white wine. Force-meat balls may be added to oyster soup and lobster soup, made as directed under the article “ Force- Meat for Fish.” Crappet Heads, or Fish Soup. Put on in boiling salt-and-water two haddocks, and the tails, fins, and roes of six; in a quarter of an hour take out the roes and fish ; let the liquor boil for an hour longer, and strain it. When cold, pick all the fish from the bones, and pick out the strings and skin from the roes; peel and chop two onions, put them on the fire in cold water, and when it boils pour oft' the water, half a pound of shortbread in crumbs, two tea-spoonsful of salt, one and a half of white pepper, and one of grated nutmeg. Mince all these ingredients, mix them together thoroughly, a%d bind them with two beaten whites of eggs. Have ready six heads of haddocks, skinned, and the eyes taken out; make up a large ball of the force- meat ; stuff’ the heads, and tie them round with a coarse thread. Boil the liquor; thicken it with flour kneaded in butter; add some parsley, and a little pepper, two ta- ble-spoonsful of mushroom, the same quantity of walnut catsup, and half a pint of white wine. Skin and cut two haddocks in three or four pieces each, and put them with the heads into the stock, and boil them till they are suf- ficiently done, which may be in about a quarter of an hour. 3