THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 47 1 table beer, without any table ale; or nine gallons of ale, and six of table beer; or six of ale, and twelve of table beer. This is the smallest quantity of malt that should be em- ployed for brewing twelve gallons of table ale. If the ale be intended for keeping, it is advisable to allow six bushels (a boll) of pale malt to brew a hogshead (54 gallons) of good ale. The quantity of hops must be suited to the taste of the consumers; for those who do not like the strong flavour of the hop, two pounds in winter and three in summer may be allowed to the boll. The mashing is done by two, three, and sometimes four infusions of hot water. The degree of heat depends on the combination of so many circumstances, that it cannot be fixed by any certain rule. When too hot, it forms the malt into a pulp or paste, so that it will not run out of the mash-tun, and the liquor will neither pro- duce wort of good quality, nor in any considerable quan- tity. This is more particularly the case when the malt is low ground, that is, fine. When the water is of too low a heat, the beer will be spiritless, and liable to turn sour. A large quantity is mashed at a lower heat than a small; and when beer is intended for keeping, the water should be of a higher temperature. Well-made malt may be mashed at the highest heat; the extremes may be stated at 145° and 190° of Fahrenheit. The first mash stands longer, and is taken at a lower heat, than the second, which again bears the same rela- tion to the third. If the goods be glutinous, a longer time will be required for spending the tap, as the draw- ing off the wort is called. After it is drawn off, it should be boiled as soon as possible. When the process of mashing commences, pour into the mash-tun four gallons of boiling water for every peck of malt to be employed ; if the copper is not sufficiently capacious, boil the remaining quantity of water as quickly as possible, and add it to the mash. When the water has cooled down to the temperature of, say 170°, let one person gradually pour the malt into the tun, while ano- ther stirs and mixes it well with the water, which will