454 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. A proper choice of cows is of the greatest importance. Of the black cattle of the island, the short-horned, or Dutch, and the long-horned, or Lancashire, are in general preferred ; the first yields the greatest quantity of milk ; that of the second is not so abundant, but richer: the polled, or Galloway cows, are excellent milkers, and the Suffolk duns are much esteemed, as are also the Ayrshire cows. For the management of cows, it is of the greatest consequence to keep them easy, clean, and well aired ; when they are turned out to pasture, they must not be over driven, or have so far to travel as to induce fatigue. Their food in winter may be of two kinds, either dry or green ; of dry food, hay and straw are almost the only kinds used ; the most profitable kinds of green food are parsnips, carrots, cabbages, and turnips : from one to two hundred pounds a-day of cabbages or turnips will be con- sumed by a middle-sized cow. By means of stall-feeding with green crops, a cow can be kept in milk not only for a month longer in autumn than by the common modes, but even through the whole winter season. When green succulent food cannot be procured, it will be judicious to give them their preserved fodder either boiled, or steeped in warm water. It is found to be beneficial to them to vary their food from time to time, and for a few weeks before calving, they should have every night a little hay, or a somewhat greater allowance of green food. On the day of calving, they should be kept in ; and, im- mediately after, it is useful to give them a handful or two of meal, mixed with lukewarm water. For a fortnight after calving, they should have, with their green food, a little hay, or chopped straw, with some ground or crushed oats. This food ought to be put into their stalls in small quanti- ties at a time, and a little salt given with it improves the quality, and increases the quantity of milk. The land necessary to maintain a cow, may, at an average, be stated from two to three English acres, if it is taken into account the corn, hay, straw, and every thing else the animal con- sumes. One dairy-maid may manage a dozen or fifteen cows,