THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 510 honey-comb is required, or at the end of the season, when the bees are to be deprived of their superfluous store, remove the top and other coverings, and take the side bars out, from which having cut the honey-comb, replace them as before; the operation is facilitated by having some vacant bars ready to supply the places of the full ones. When the bees, by lying out in clusters, indicate that they stand in need of room, instead of an addition at the bottom, as in the common hive, this hive need only be deprived of a part of the comb attached to one or more of the bars. In time of snow, or when robbery is threat- ened, the centre should be closed by a tin wicket, or by a piece of lead with holes made in it to admit air. Another Hive. The hive is formed as the common cottage-hive, be- ing made to separate towards the middle. On the lower division, which may be made the largest, a board is pla- ced, in which one large or some smaller holes are made, to admit of the bees ascending. When the upper part, or top, is filled with honey, it may be removed and re- placed by another prepared for the purpose. Those who wish to see the bees at work, may place a glass top under the straw one, or invert tumblers, or long glasses made for the purpose, over each hole, one or more of which may be removed as they are filled. To Extract the Honey from the Combs. To obtain the primary honey, heat, celerity, and clean- liness, are necessary. Where a few hives only are kept, it will be sufficient to have two or three earthen pans, with a frame of wire adapted to their size, each wire be- ing about one inch distant from another—a corn riddle or flour sieve placed over a tub answers the purpose very well—two horse-hair sieves, a bag of a conical form, that is, wide at top, and tapering to a point at the bottom, made of such canvass as is used in a dairy, and some jars for the reception of the honey, and in which it is to be preserved. The hives should be brought into a warm