127 THE PRACTICE OP COOKERY. crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit make good cones. Half the ingredients will be sulficient for a corner dish. Pyramids of Rice. Boil some whole rice, make it up into the form of py- ramids about three inches high, or press it into small tin frames of that shape; take out part of the rice at the bot- tom, and fill the space with sausage, or rich forcemeat; place them in a dish, take off the frame, and pour round them some rich brown gravy. Casserole of Rice. Having cleaned and drained about half a pound of rice, moisten it in a stew-pan, with some fat, that which gathers on the top of liquor in which meat has been boil- ed, strain some broth or soup, add to it a large quantity of grease, some pieces of fat bacon, and a little salt, and mix it with the rice, to make it swell as much as possi- ble ; stir it frequently over a slow fire to keep it from sticking; when it is soft, strain it through a cullender, and press it well with a wooden spoon. The mould being selected for the casserole, rinse it with the fat drained from the rice, taking care that every part of the inside of the mould be well greased, then cover it with rice, and place a piece of the crumb of bread in the mid- dle, and cover it with rice also ; press it in equally with a spoon, and let it cool. When the rice has become firm, dip the outside of the mould into boiling water; put a covering of paste made with flour and water, flatten it all round with a spoon, and make an opening in the top with a knife, then put it into the oven, which cannot be too hot for a casserole, baste it with the grease, and when it has become of a fine colour, take it out of the oven, remove the crust, and take out the bread care- fully, so that the casserole may not be injured; next re- move some of the rice from the inside, taking care to leave enough to resist the weight of whatever may be put inside of it. Fill it with minced meat, ragout, blan- quette, fricassee of chickens, macaroni, or scollops of