4oi) THE PRACTICE 61' COOKERY. spread thin over the inside of the bowl, and clean cold water poured over it; kneaded, broken, and respread in the water; the water poured off; the butter beaten in large lumps, or handfuls, of three or four pounds, against the sides of the bowl, respread, salted, the salt worked in, rewashed, and rebeaten until the water comes oft' un- sullied, which it will do after two or three rvashings. It is then broken into pound lumps, rebeaten against the bowl, and printed or otherwise made up. There is a finishing operation which is sometimes given in the neighbourhood of London. It is thus performed:-— The bowl or tray being wetted, to prevent the butter from sticking to it, and a cheese-cloth strainer or other cloth being washed in clean cold water, and wrung as dry as possible, a pound lump of butter is placed in the bowl, and with a stroke of the hand, proportioned to the stiffness of the butter, is beaten with the cloth; as the pat of butter becomes flat and thin, it is rolled up with the cloth, by a kind of dexterity which can only be acquired by prac- tice, and again beaten flat; the dairy-woman, every three or four strokes, rolling up either one side or the other of the pat, and moving it about in the bowl, to prevent its sticking. As soon as the cloth fills with moisture, which it extracts from the butter, and imbibes in the manner of a spunge, it is wrung, and rewashed in clean cold water. Each pound of butter requires, in cool weather, four or five minutes to be beaten thoroughly, but two minutes are at any time of essential service. Before the dairy-woman begins to take the butter out of the churn, she first scalds, and then plunges immediately into cold water, every ves- sel and thing which she is about to make use of, in or- der to prevent the butter from sticking to them. In sum- mer, when the butter is very soft, it is sometimes neces- sary to rub them, after scalding, with salt, which greatly assists the wood in retaining the moisture. She also puts her own hands into the hottest water she can bear them in, rubs them with salt, and immediately plunges them into cold water. This she repeats as often as she finda the butter stick to them.