474 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. place them with the bung-holes inclined a little to one side. A slow fermentation will go on, and the same li- quor which overflows from the casks may again (having been received in a vessed placed underneath the casks for that purpose) be used for filling up the barrels, along with any kind of beer that is ready at hand ; it is of great consequence to keep the casks constantly filled. The fer- mentation ceases spontaneously in a few days, (more or less, in proportion to the heat of the atmosphere,) when the casks must be bunged up. If the brewing has been properly conducted, the beer will be clear in fourteen days at farthest; if it be intended to mantle in the glass, it must be bottled off before the insensible fermentation in the cask has ceased, or, at all events, immediately when it has become bright. In warm weather particularly, the casks should be occasionally examined ; if a hissing noise is audible at the bung-hole, the spile may be left in loosely till the liquor has become quiet; or, which is bet- ter, check the fermentation by repeatedly mopping the cask all over with cold water. The beer being well pre- pared, remove it to the place where it is to remain for use ; when placed in the cellar, the bung must be drawn, and the casks filled up quite full with fine beer, skimming off the head from time to time. After being attended in this manner for a day or two, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung for the vent peg, which should be left rather slack for a day or two. If it be absolutely necessary to fine the beer by artificial means, it may be done by dissolving a small quantity of isinglass in stale sour beer. Beer, when once in a state fit for use, should not be again agitated. It is only requisite that the cask should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom as to allow the beer, particu- larly if it be strong beer, to flow clear of that sediment which may have collected at the lower part of the vessel. Strong beer requires to be six weeks in the cask if the quantity be small; half a hogshead, three or four months before it be bottled ; keeping beer about a fortnight, and email beer, a week.