THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 122 them with pepper and Balt, lay them into a deep dish, pour over them nearly half a pint of white wine, let it stand for three hours. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with butter, dredge each slice of the veal on both sides w'ith flour, add a little more wine, and as much good white stock as will cover it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover the pan closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and serve it instantly, otherwise it will become hard. Minced Veal. Cut thin slices of lean cold veal; mince them very finely with a knife, and season with white pepper, salt, grated lemon peel and nutmeg ; put it into a sauce-pan, with a little white stock, or water, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let it boil; add a hit of butter rolled in flour, and a little milk, or cream ; put all round the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a three-cornered shape ; or, cover the mince thickly with grated bread, seasoned with white pepper, salt, and a little butter, and browm it with a sala- mander ; or serve with poached eggs laid upon the top. Calf’s Head, Plain. Clean a calf’s head nicely, and cut out the bone of the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out the nose bone as close to the eyes as possible ; wash the head w'ell in warm water, and let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows: One pound of beef suet, and one pound of fat bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, two or three bay leaves, one or two onions, and the juice of a lemon ; season with 6alt, pepper, mace, cloves, and allspice ; boil all this an hour in six pints of wnter, then tie up the head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about three hours, and drain it; take out the tongue, skin, and replace it; serve quite hot, with the following sauce—minced shalots, pars- ley, the brains minced, some vinegar, salt, and pepper. Dressed Calf’s Head. To take the hair off the head, first wash it clean, and