449 THE PRACTICE OP COOKERY. farm-yard; but they will be little inferior if accommo- dated and attended to as before directed, and be al- lowed abundance and variety of wholesome food. Barley is the best grain for poultry, but they will thrive well on oats and tail wheat; heavy wheat is generally considered injurious; any light grain ground, together with peas, and made into brose, will be found excellent food; as al- so potatoes, when boiled, peeled, and made into thick brose with meal, that is, boiling water stirred into the mixture. A cock and two hens, having as much food as they choose to eat, will consume a quarter of a peck of the best barley in a week. Turkeys. Tiie true black Norfolk turkey is esteemed superior to all others. One turkey cock is sufficient for six hens. The hen will cover, according to her size, from nine to fifteen eggs. Her term of sitting is thirty days, during which period constant attendance, with both food and water, is necessary. The chicks must be withdrawn from the nest as soon as hatched, and kept very warm. The hen and brood should be housed during a month or six weeks, and fed on curd or eggs, boiled hard, and barley- meal kneaded with milk, or rather clear water, and often renewed. In case of the chicks appearing sickly, and the feathers ruffled, indicating a chill from severity or change of weather, half-ground malt may be mixed with the barleymeal, and by way of medicine, powdered carroway seeds; also artificial worms, that is, boiled meat pulled into strings, in running after which, the chicks have a salutary exercise. This diet is beneficial for every spe- cies of chicks. All slop victuals should be avoided; and their being kept dry, warm, and clean, is of the ut- most consequence. A fresh turf of short sweet grass daily, cleared from snails and slugs, which will scorn- young chicks, is very pleasing to them, and promotes their health. After a month or six weeks confinement within doors, the hen may be cooped for another fort- night ; when full grown, they will, in a good range, pro-