THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 507 are acquainted with the person of the queen, should take this opportunity of catching her. In regard to a third swarm, it would be folly to keep it. When the weather proves unfavourable after the hiving of a swarm, some food should be administered to the bees at night. When they lie out in clusters, and no more swarms are de- sired, an eek should be placed on the hive. If the heat be very great, it would be advisable to shade the hives, in addition to the common covering of straw, with which they ought always to be provided, as the best protection from the cold in winter, and the heat in summer. A par- ticular value should always be put on those hives that kill their drones the earliest. It sometimes happens that their numbers deter the bees from attempting any violence against them ; therefore, when the other stocks kill their drones, let the bee-master place himself quietly by the side of the hive, in the middle of a fine day, and crush every drone with his finger or a stick, as it passes out or in. Every hive will be the better for a little assistance in this massacre, which may be looked for in the end of July or beginning of August. Instead of following the general plan of suffocating the bees in August, the hives should be removed to the vicinity of a heath, and there allowed to remain from four to six weeks. July is the best season for depri- ving the hives of a part of their store. When a hive is to be robbed of its honey, remove it from the stool to some distance, procure an empty hive, invert it on that from which you wish to dislodge the bees, either to take the honey, or to unite them with another hive. Stop up the entrance, and then strike gently the under hive on the side opposite to that to which the combs are fixed ; in a few minutes, when the anger of the bees may be appeased, a piece of wood should be introduced to keep the two hives about an inch apart on one side, for the purpose of preventing the bees, after being driven up on the one side, descending, which they might do, by the other, to the hive from whence they were dislodged, the knocking on the under hive must be continued,