THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 488 are kept in a little earth till replanted; they being very apt to be injured by exposure to the air. A trench, about six inches deep, being prepared, the roots are care- fully laid in, a foot distant from each other, the buds or crowns being kept upright, and about two inches be- low the surface. A foot between each ordinary trench is reckoned sufficient, but between every four rows a double distance is left for an alley. In dry weather the new-planted beds should be carefully watered. Several hoeings, generally three, are given in the course of the summer. In the end of September, the haum decays, and is cut away; and small stable-dung or sea-weed is spread on the bed, previously stirring the surface with a fork. In spring, just before the buds begin to appear, the intervals of the beds are slightly delved over with the narrow-pronged fork, raking afterwards, with great delicacy of hand. The same practice, both for autumn and spring, is observed for the second year, it being only in the third year after planting out, or the fourth from the time of sowing, that cutting for the table is begun. In April a few shoots may generally be cut; in May and June they will be plentiful. In the first productive sea- son only the large shoots are taken, but in subsequent years all the shoots are gathered as they advance till the end of the month of June. Shoots, two inches under ground, and three or four above, are the best for the table ; and in cutting them, some of the earth is first re- moved in order to avoid the succeeding buds below. An asparagus quarter should not contain less than a fall of ground, as it often takes that quantity to furnish a good dish at one time. Sea Kale. The best mode of propagating sea-kale is by sowing it. The soil intended for it should be sandy and light, but mixed with fine rich mould; and of all manures for this crop, drift-ware or sea-weed is the best. The ground must be trenched at least two feet deep, and in March the seed is sown, about two inches deep ; they