43 l THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. i April, mixing a little fine earth with the seed to make it divide more equally. A small sowing of this kind may be made every month, from April to August, in order to have them throughout the summer in a young state for I the table. For a winter crop, the yellow Dutch turnip is considered superior to any other kind; it is sown thickly about the middle of July ; and, if rain do not oc- cur, frequent watering will be necessary. When the root leaves are about an inch broad, the young plants are thinned to within six or eight inches distance from each other. To prevent the ravages of the turnip-fly, it is ad- visable to dust quick-lime lightly over the crop while it is in the seed-leaf. Should the young plants threaten to i run to flower, they may be trodden down, by gently pla- cing the foot on the centre of the plant. If turnips be al- lowed to remain in the ground throughout the winter, the top leaves form excellent greens early in spring. The Swedish, the stone, and the yellow, are all likewise good 11 winter turnips. Carrot.' Carrots thrive best in a light soil, with a mixture of sand ; it should be delved very deep, or even trenched, and, at the same time, well broken with the spade. Pigeon’s dung added to the carrot ground promotes their health, by preventing the attacks of insects ; when any other manure is used, it should be buried deep, that the roots may not touch it. In general, it is best to make the carrots the second crop after manuring. For the prin- cipal crop, the orange carrot, or the red or field carrot, are preferred; it is sown in March or April—in light soils not till the end of April or beginning of May. The seeds must be rubbed between the hands with some dry sand to separate them ; and, as they are very light, a calm day must bo chosen ; they should bo trodden in before raking. When the plants come up, several successive hoeings are given ; at first with a three inch, and latterly with a six inch hoe. The plants are thinned either by 2 H