511 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. room, where no bees nor wasps can enter; the combs are then loosened from the hive by a long thin knife; those parts of the comb which are empty should be cut ofF first, and those that are black and drossy drained by themselves ; as also those in which there is any farina. Should there be any brood, care must be taken not to crush it, as the juice will communicate a bad flavour to the honey; and those pieces of the comb which contain it, may be placed under any stock that most want9 strengthening. If there be any bees upon the combs when taken out, they should be brushed or blown off, and if besmeared with honeys washed in water made a little warm ; then being laid on a sieve, and placed in the sunshine, they will revive, and fly to their respective homes. The pure combs should be cut in small pieces, sliced twice in a horizontal direction, that is, at the top and at the bottom, and laid on the wire frames to drain ; in two or three hours they may be turned. When all the primary honey is extracted, it must be run through the bag, whereby it will be entirely freed from every particle of wax. This, the first drawn, should be preserved by itself; the next in value is that which drains from the combs indiscriminately ; a third sort may be obtained by wringing the combs in a cloth, or by placing them in a lukewarm oven. They may be afterwards steeped for mead or vinegar, and the water in which the utensils and the hands of the operator have been washed, may be kept likewise for the same purpose. As soon as the jars in which the honey is to be preserved are full, they should be corked down, and deposited in a dry place. Liquid honey should never be put into a vessel containing honey which has acquired any consistency; this mixture will make it ferment and turn sour. A hundred pounds of honey-comb will not in general yield more than four pounds of wrax. To Melt and Purify Wax. Where six or eight stocks of bees are kept, it will be most profitable and convenient to have a tin vessel made