THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 447 fowl is superior to all other breeds of domestic fowls for richness and delicacy of flavour; but from their disposition to fight, they are difficult to be reared. Yellow-legged fowls are often of a tender constitution, and always in- ferior in the quality of their flesh. A young and healthy fowl may be known by the fresh and florid colour of the comb, the dryness of the eye, and the nostrils being free from any discharge, and the plumage glossy. The indi- cations of old age are, paleness of the comb and gills, dul- ness of colour, and a sort of downy stiffness in the fea- thers, length and size of talons, the scales upon the legs be- coming large and prominent. Delicate white hens do not lay so many eggs in a cold season as the more hardy coloured varieties. Cordial horse-ball is good to pro- mote laying in cold weather, and also toast and ale. A hen desirous of sitting should not be prevented by any violent means ; allowing her to sit will probably not deter her so long from laying as harsh treatment. Those above the common size of their respective varieties are not preferable as layers or sitters. They are in their prime at three years, and decline after five. The number of hens to one cock from four to six. When a cock is moulting it should be withdrawn, and one that is known to and familiar with the hens substituted. When a turkey-hen becomes sick, it is found beneficial to pull out the feathers of the tail. It should be a general rule to breed from young stock. A two-years old cock, and pullets in their second year, provided they have the best food, accom- modation, and attendance, may be allowed to sit so early as January. Eggs for sitting should never exceed the age of a month ; the newest laid to be preferred, and as nearly of a size as possible : those which have the circu- lar flaw, indicating the double yolk, should be avoided. The number of eggs may be from nine to fifteen, accord- ing to the size of the fowl; an odd number should be chosen, that they may lie the closer, and they may be marked with a pen and ink, 60 that any new laid ones may be removed. An egg being broken in the nest, it should be cleared away, and the remainder washed with