THE PRACTICE' OE COOKERY. 50G of bees wliich may contain the queen bee, drop upon the ground. The hive, when the bees have been all shaken or brushed into it, should be placed on the board, and left near the place of the swarm’s first settling, until the even- ing, when it should be carefully removed and placed on a pedestal, at some distance from the parent hive. A se- cond swarm may generally be looked for on the eighth or tenth day after the first; sometimes sooner, but never later than the twelfth day after. The day before the de- parture of the second swarm, the call of the queen bees may be distinctly heard; the note of the one is loud and clear, that of the other, the young queen, is lower, but equally distinct, and totally different from the hum of the other bees. As they give no other signal of their second swarming, it is necessary to keep a vigilant watch over the hives, to ascertain from which the swarm de- parts. It is generally necessary to return the second swarm to the parent hive immediately. They are seldom or never worth preserving as a separate colony, except when two fly off’ together, in which case they become, by a union, of little inferior value to a first swarm. Sup- posing the two swarms to have alighted upon separate branches, proceed to shake one of them into the empty hive, and then immediately shake the other into the same, leaving it to the bees to kill the superfluous queen bee, that is, if the proprietor has not the skill or courage to do it. To join two swarms from different hives, it will be necessary to drench both with a mixture of beer, sugar, and water, made lukewarm, or, with the fumigating bel- lows, give them a little smoke from lime leaves or to- bacco. When a second swarm is to be returned to the parent hive, turn down a chair, and place the back paral- lel with the entrance of the hive, over which a sheet or tablecloth may he spread ; then holding the hive contain- ing the second swarm over it, give it a few sharp knocks on the top, and the bees will fall immediately on the cloth ; proceed then, either with the finger or a stick, to guide a few of the bees to the entrance of the parent hive, and they will instantly crowd into it: those who