489 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. may be set in a triangular form, six inches apart, leaving a space of two feet between the triangles. To ensure a produce, it may be as well to drop in two or more seeds into each hole, and to thin out afterwards the super- fluous plants. For the first summer no attention will be required in the culture, except that of keeping the plants clear of weeds. In November the whole bed is covered with rotten stable-litter, as is done with asparagus. Du- ring the second year the same plan is followed. In the third year most of the plants will be strong enough to be blanched for use; this is done by placing blanching covers over the plants as soon as the leaves are decayed in the end of autumn, and then covering up the whole bed with stable-dung, packing it closely between the pots, and heaping it over the tops of them to the depth of six inches or more. By this mode the sea-kale will be fit for cutting in January and February. If the heat of the litter at any time decline, which may be easily as- certained by introducing a thermometer into several of the blanching pots, some new stable-dung must be mix- ed with it. The blanching pots, mentioned above, are made for the purpose; they have movable covers that fit down closely, and they are nearly as wide at top as at bottom, in order to give room for cutting such shoots as may be ready, without breaking the others. It is ne- cessary to have from thirty to fifty of such covers. A less expensive mode of blanching is, by covering the sea- kale beds to the depth of a foot and a half with leaves as they fall from the trees in autumn, adding, over all, a very slight layer of long stable-litter to prevent the leaves being blown about. In this manner the shoots will be very sweet and tender ; but they will not be produced so early as by the former method. Onions. The soil for onions should be light, and not recently manured ; it should be well delved and broken fine, and exactly levelled. There are several varieties in use, but the Strasburg may be mentioned as being as good as any.