8 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. two dozen of good red carrots, boil them in four quarts of water till quite soft; pound them in a marble mortar, mix them with the onions and add the liquor in which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves; let them all boil about an hour, then rub them through a hair sieve; put it on again to boil rather quickly, till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a little dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour the soup over it. If the carrots are large, one dozen will be found sufficient. Another Soup Cressy. Wash clean, and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, three heads of celery, and six onions ; put them in a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a slice of ham, stew them gently for an hour, stirring them constantly ; when they begin to brown add as much gravy soup as will fill the tureen; let it boil till the vegetables are suffi- ciently tender to pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after which put it on the fire and boil it half an hour, skim, and season it with pepper and salt. This soup should be as thick as melted butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in four quarts of water till reduced to three, will answer for the soup Scotch Hare Soup. Skin the hare, taking care to preserve the blood ; cut the hare in pieces, wash it clean, cut off the fleshy parts of the back and hind legs ; put all the rest on in a stew-pan with a table-spoonful of butter ; keep the cover on close, and let it stew half an hour; stir it now and then. In another sauce-pan put about three ounces of butter, and three table-spoonsful of flour ; brown it nicely.' Mix the blood with four quarts of cold water, strain it, and with the rest of the meat add it to the browned butter; stir it constantly, and when it boils, put it to the hare which is stewing, and add one carrot, one head of celery, and three large onions cut small ; season with pepper and salt. Let it boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according