478 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. the following spring; arul the plants are set in rows be- tween two and three feet wide, and two feet asunder in the rows. As the cabbages advance, the earth in the rows must be stirred, and drawn round the plants ; indeed the oftener the earth is stirred the better will be the crop. In the end of April or beginning of May, the early cabbages begin to turn in their leaves, and to harden in the centre, when, if the leaves be bound close with willow twigs, or strands of bass-matting, they will be fit for use a fortnight the earlier. If the roots and stems of a portion of this crop be allowed to remain af- ter the tops are cut off, and the ground delved, and per- haps manured in autumn, very fine cabbages will be produced in the January and February following. For autumn and rvinter use, the seeds of cabbages are sown in the end of February or beginning of March, pricked out into shady borders in May, and allowed to remain there for some weeks. In June, they are finally trans- planted, at the same distance as the early kinds. These cabbages come to be fit for use in the autumn months, and continue good, in sheltered situations, and in ordinary seasons, till February or March. Of the red cabbages, the dwarf dark-red kind is considered the best; it may be sown about the end of August, and planted out in the beginning of April. The white Strasburg is the va- riety of which the Germans chiefly make their sour krout. The long or large-sided cabbage being rather tender, should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July. Savoys. The principal sorts are the yellow and the green ; the latter being considered the hardiest. They are sowm about the middle of April, and planted out in June, considerably closer than the common cabbage. If savoys be wanted before winter, the seed must be sown in February, or even in the autumn before: in the last case, fine large plants will be ready for the table in Sep- tember or October. The later crop affords a supply