THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 4-1-8 warm water. It is proper to place corn and water occa- sionally beside the sitting lien, withdrawing them as soon as she is satisfied. Hens sit twenty days. The chickens first hatched should be taken from the nest and secured in a basket of wool or soft hay, and kept, if the weather be cold, near the fire. They will re- quire no food for some hours, even for twenty-four. The whole brood being hatched, the hen is to be placed for some days under coop, upon a dry place, and, if possible, not within reach of another hen, nor near numbers of young fowls. The first food split grits, afterwards tail corn. All watery food, soaked bread, or potatoes, im- proper as first food ; hard-boiled eggs, and curd chopped small, is much approved ; their water should be pure, and often renewed. There are pans made in such forms, that the chickens may drink without getting into the water ; a basin turned down in the middle of a pan of water, will answer the end, the water running round it. They must not be let out early in the morning, or whilst the dew re- mains upon the ground, far less be suffered to range over the wet grass; and they should be cautiously guarded against sudden changes of the weather, or exposure to rain. When the hen begins to roost, the chickens may be associated with the young poultry as nearly of their own age as possible, or put up to feed. In choosing full-sized fowls for feeding, the short-legged and early hatched always deserve a preference. There are various modes of feeding, but whether for domestic use or sale, the best method is constant high keep from the begin- ning ; their flesh will in consequence be more juicy and finer flavoured, and they will be always ready for the table, except in the moulting season, which is during the autumn for the old, and the spring for the young, poul- try. The pullets which have been hatched in March, if high fed from the beginning, will lay plentifully through the following autumn, and in February may be used for the table ; about which period their laying will be finish- ed. The fowls will be finest that have the run of the 4