512 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. to fit a due proportioned kettle or pot, the sides of which should be quite straight, so that, when it slides down, there may be no vacancy for the farina or bee bread to rise up between. The holes in the tin separater should be as numerous and small as possible in the bottom, and about two inches up the sides; the bottom should he quite flat, without a rim, like that of a quart tin pot, that it may press the dregs the closer down when near the bottom. Set the pot on the fire, with about five or six inches depth of water therein, in which is to be mixed single aquafortis, in the proportion of half an ounce for each quart of water. In this put as many combs as will conveniently boil, when melted. As soon as they begin to melt, they should he frequently stirred, until all he thoroughly melted; let it then boil without stirring, that the wax may rise clear. It should be made to boil briskly during the whole process. As soon as the yel- low froth rises, put in the separater, and press it down in the liquor, until it be about full; with a wooden spoon, or what is better, a tin ladle, first dipped in cold water, lightly skim off the wrax as it rises upon the sur- face, and put it in a narrow-bottomed pan, previously rinsed in cold water, set as near as may he to the pot on the fire, and continue skimming the wax off as long as it rises, depressing the separater in proportion as the liquor rises. When the liquor in the pan is nearly cold, the wax is to he taken out, and what dross adheres to it Bcraped off. The wax is then to be reboiled in a small quantity of water, and about a fourth part as much aqua- fortis as before to a quart; as soon as it boils, take it off, and let it stand until cold. The wax will concrete at the top, and the remaining dross being scraped off, may he farther purified with other combs. Another and less expensive method is, to put the combs loosely into a canvass, or rather a fine hair hag, tied up close at the end, and put into a kettle with a due pro- portion of aquafortis and water; a leaden or iron weight is to he laid on the hag, to keep it down to the bottom. It must he made to boil so as to throw up the froth brisk-