THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 473 gyle-tun (for which the mash-tun may be used, after being cleared out and rinsed with water,) add the yeast, and, having covered up the vessel, let it stand in a mo- derately warm place. When the heat of the atmosphere is more than 60°, the cool of the night must be chosen to put the beer to work. In lower degrees of the atmo- sphere, the wort must be set at a greater heat than that of the air; when the air is at 50°, the beer may be set to work at 50°. It should rather be set at too low than too high a temperature. A greater proportion of yeast is required in winter than in summer; and beer intended to be kept ten or twelve months, will not require so much as that which is to be used immediately. The ex- tract of one quarter of malt will require, if for keeping, six pints when the atmosphere is at 40°, five at 60°, and three at 80°; but, for those who are not disposed to 6tudy all these particulars, the proportion is one quart of good stiff yeast to about forty gallons of good strong beer or ale wrort, and one pint and a half to the same quantity of small beer wort. As soon as the yeast is added to the wort, the mix- ture should be stirred for two or three minutes; it is a good practice to set the yeast to ferment before it is wanted, by diluting it with a portion of lukewarm wort, adding more wort as the fermentation proceeds. If the fermentation in the gyle-tun be languid and fee- ble, one or two large stone bottles, filled with hot water, closely corked, may be let down into the tub. The fer- mentation in the gyle-tun is completed when the head of yeast begins to decline in the middle; or, observe when the head of yeast has well risen, skim it off, and repeat the skimming till no more can be separated. The fermentation of a small quantity of beer is usually com- pleted in two days; after the collected yeast has stood a day, the beer that has separated from it may be return- ed to the skimmed liquor. When the fermentation has been apparently completed, draw off the fermented li- quor from the thick sediment in the fermenting vessel, into clean casks, previously rinsed with boiling water;