THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 504 four times in the year, and sprinkled with salt. Damp- ness is very injurious to bees; in winter, therefore, the snow must be carefully brushed off the hives, and while it continues upon the ground, the bees must be confined. Should they at this season become unhealthy, a renova- tion of air may be beneficial, and were the hives to re- main an hour turned up, it would be rather an advantage than otherwise. Where there is not a little running stream in the neighbourhood of the apiary, troughs with water should be placed near the hives. They may be made of stone or wood, the wood well pitched, of eight or ten in- ches in depth, and sunk in the earth. A few inches of mould may be put in the bottom, and some water cresses planted therein, to preserve the purity of the water, with which they should be constantly supplied ; or, put one or two pieces of wood in a basin of water, and place it near the hive. Spring and autumn are the seasons for feeding the weak hives, beginning in February if the weather be fine. The food most approved of for them is a sirup composed of sugar or treacle, ale, and salt, in the proportion of two pints of ale to a pound of sugar, and about half an ounce of salt, the whole to be boiled a quarter of an hour, and carefully skimmed ; when cold, it should be bottled, cork- ed, and to prevent its candying, kept for use in a warm, place. In the beginning of the season, a little port- wine incorporated with the food, may prevent dysentery. When the bees to be fed are in a plain cottage hive, an eek must be provided, of the same diameter as the hive. When the sun is set, and the bees all returned from the fields, let the hives be gently raised, and the eek placed on the stool; fill an empty comb with the food, place it in the cell, and replace the hive upon it; the bees will be less disturbed, if a slip of the eek be made to open, large enough to admit the piece of comb. It should be remo- ved on the following morning, if the cold has not prevented their taking their usual supply in the night. Should that be the case, shut them up for a day or two, to prevent the mischief which would occur from strange bees en-