464 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. the particles have subsided, the whey is laded off, the curd properly pressed by the bottom ot the shimming- dish, the hands, or a semicircular board and weight adapt- ed to the size of the tub. The cheese-knife is now em- ployed, as before, to cut the curd, thereby promoting the free separation of the whey; and pressure is again ap- plied till it be all drained off. The curd is then put into two or three separate vessels, and the dairy-woman breaks it with her hands as small as possible. During this part of the process salt is scattered over the curd, and intimately mixed with it: the proportion is generally regulated by taste—a handful of salt for every six gallons of milk, or about half an ounce to the pound, may be allowed. Having made choice of a vat, commonly made of elm, with holes in the lower part of it proportioned to the quantity of curd, a cloth is spread over it, and the curd is put in by little and little, breaking it all the while ; and having filled the vat, heaped up, and rounded above its top, the cloth is folded over it, a board of an inch thick is laid on the vat, and the whole put into the press, the power of which ought to be applied gradually. When it has been an hour or two in the press, it is taken out, the cheese placed in a vessel of hot whey or ■water, to stand for an hour or two, to harden the skin. It is then wiped dry, covered with a clean dry cloth ; again placed in the vat, which is also wiped dry, and put under the press, to remain for six or eight hours. At this period of the process, if any of the edges happen to project they are pared off, and the cheese is pricked all over with a small bodkin an inch or two deep. It is then wrapped in a clean dry cloth, and replaced in the vat, twice a- day, at least during two days, when it is finally removed, and put into the cheese-rack, or on a dry board, and turned every day for about a wreek. A small quantity of dry moss may be put under it. When two meals of milk are used, unless the weather be very hot, a portion of the creamed milk of the first meal, as a half, or third, being placed in a brass pan, over