THE FRACTICE OF COOKERY. 463 or more ofliquid may be put to the bag in mash. After the infusion lias remained in the jar from one to three days, the liquid is drawn off, and about a pint more of whey or water put on the bag; when it has stood a day or two, it is also drawn off, strained with the first liquid, and bottled for use as rennet. Some people put a dram- glassful of whisky to each quart or choppin of the rennet. Thus prepared, it may be used immediately, or kept for months. One table-spoonful of it will coagulate, in ten or fifteen minutes, thirty gallons, or sixty Scots pints, of milk, which will yield more than 24 lbs. avoirdupois of cheese. In England, the curdled milk is generally wash- ed from the stomach, and in consequence, the rennet is so much weaker than that made in Scotland, that double the quantity is used, and it requires from one to some- times three hotirs to form the milk into curd. The milk ought to be set, that is, the rennet put to it, at 85° or 90° of Fahrenheit, and covered till it coagulates. Cheese-racks save labour in turning. The plate-rack, with four or five tier, one above another, seems to be the best form. If the cheeses be of different sizes, it ought to be much narrower at the top than at the bottom ; and to preserve the cheeses from vermin, it ought to stand on legs about two feet high, with a broad base board projecting over the legs. A One-Meal Cheese. When the milk has been brought in warm from the cow, it is put into the cheese-tub, and the rennet added to it; the quantity must depend on its strength. As soon as coagulation has taken place, the curd is broken and gathered. A cheese-knife is employed to cut the curd in various directions ; and this being allowed to sub- side for a short time, is again cut by the knife more freely than before, and the operation continued till the whole be reduced to small uniform particles. This business may occupy about the space of twenty minutes, after which the cheese-tub is again covered with a cloth, and allowed to remain nearly the same length of time. \\ hen