THE FRACTICE OF COOKERY. 455 having assistance in the milking of them. Cows should be milked in the house rather than in the field; three times a-day, at least, in summer : early in the morning, at noon, and just before nightfall. It is of the utmost consequence, that the whole milk secreted be at each milking drawn away. It maybe laid down as a pretty general rule, that eighteen pounds of milk will yield one pound of butter, and that this is the produce of a single cow per day ; some, however, will furnish twice or even thrice this quantity. The best age for a milk cow is betwixt four and ten. When old, she will give more milk, but of an inferior quality. Of the Prevention and Cure of Diseases incident to Black Cattle. Regular watering, as well as sound food, prevents many diseases; and cattle ought to be carefully kept from smelling carrion, or chewing bones. The diseases of cattle may be divided into three class- es. The first proceeds from feeding too greedily on clo- ver or common grass, particularly in the fall of the year. The remedy usually employed is the probang, a flexible instrument, which being passed into the stomach, the con- fined air rushes out; when this is not at hand, three small canes, each six feet long, are bound together with waxed packthread, and a smooth ball of wood, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, fixed at the end: in order to pass it down the throat, an assistant must lay hold of the nostrils, and keep out the head, as nearly as possible, in a line with the throat. The food that is in consequence thrown up, must be removed from the mouth; after which, the ani- mal should be turned out into bare pasture, or get twice a-day, for three days, half-a-pint of mild ale, with one race of ginger grated into it. The diseases of the second class proceed from de- rangement of the digestive system, and occur chiefly late in winter or in spring. They are moor-ill, yellows, red- water, flatulent colic, scouring, tail-rot, joint fallen, &c., for which the following opening medicine is administered ;