472 THE PRACTICE OE COOKERY. occupy half an hour at least; then cover up the tun with blankets, carpets, or whatever else is ready at hand. Ihe usual mode of covering with a cap of grist is a waste of malt. When the mash has stood one hour and a half in winter, and one hour in summer, let the wort run off into the vessel destined to receive it, returning the first gallon, which may be thick, to the mash. While this mash is preparing, let the copper be again filled with water for the second mash, for which two gallons of water may be employed for every peck. Let it be pour- ed on the malt by one person, while another plies the oar for half an hour ; after it has stood an hour, draw it off; if it be intended to brew only one kind of liquor, the second wort may run into the receiver containing the first wort. The third mash should be made with the re- maining quantity of water, and may stand three quarters of an hour. The grist may be mashed in two operations; but it is always preferable to make three mashes. To boil the wort.—Put along with the first ale wort (supposing it to have been kept separate for the purpose of brewing ale) the whole quantity of hops into the cop- per, boil the mixture till the liquor breaks, or becomes clouded with large fleecy flakes. This will take place probably when the wort has been boiled about an hour and a half: the breaking or curdling is best observed by taking a basin full of the wort out of the copper, and suf- fering it to cool, when the flakes will be distinctly seen in the wort. The tubs having been raised on a support from the floor, and arranged for the cooling process, strain the boiled liquor into them through a riddle or flour sieve; put the hops back into the copper, and boil them again with the second and third wort. The cooling of the boiled wort should be effected with the utmost ex- pedition ; in summer it should not, if possible, be laid at a greater depth than three inches; in winter five; and the coolers so disposed that the temperature of the whole may be the same. When it has become milk-warm, or from 62° to 65° Fahrenheit, strain it through a sieve which has a cloth laid over it, pour the whole into the