T1IE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 487 beginning of August, when rains may be expected. A light, dry, but rich soil, in a sheltered situation, is desi- rable. When the plants show four leaves, the ground around them is hoed, and the spinach moderately thin- ned ; the hoeing is repeated as the weeds grow. In February, when a few dry days may occur, the surface of the ground is stirred, the plants cleaned, and again thinned out. With this mode of treatment, and with due attention, the winter spinach should afford succes- sive gatherings, from November, and, in mild weather, throughout the winter, till April or May. The first sowing of the summer spinach is made in a sheltered border in January. If sown broadcast, it is first thinned out to three inches, and at subsequent hoeings, to eight or ten inches apart. Successive sowings are made in February, March, and April; and these are at once thinned out to six or eight inches apart. Asparagus. Asparagus is of two kinds ; the red-topped, which produces the larger shoots, and the green-topped, which are considered of the more delicate flavour. The best way of propagating asparagus is by means of seed. In the month of March it is sown in shallow drills, six inches asunder, and earthed in from half an inch to an inch deep. The young plants are kept as free of weeds as possible during the summer; and in the end of Oc- tober, some litter is spread over the surface of the ground to protect them from frost. In the following spring, about April, the seedlings are transplanted to the quarter in which they are to remain. The soil of this quarter must not be less than two and a half feet deep ; it should be light, but rich; damp ground, or a wet subsoil, would be very unsuitable; nothing is better than a sandy loam well mixed with rotten dung, or sea-weed; and before planting a bed, it should be well trenched over to the depth of the soil, burying abundance of manure in the bottom. The seedling plants are cautiously raised with a narrow- pronged fork ; and when they are taken up, the roots