5H> THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. three years of age. Their time of farrowing should be so arranged that they may produce two litters in the year; one about March, and the other towards the begin- ning of August. A ^ow, when with young, ought not to be entirely confined to a hut, but allowed to walk about at pleasure in the swine-yard, or court belonging to the farm; nor should she be allowed to sleep with a num- ber of swine. A sow goes -with young 112 days, or six- teen weeks, not above a day over or under that time; a few hours previous to her farrowing, she will be obser- ved carrying straws in her mouth, to make a bed with. When she is bringing forth her young, she ought not to have much litter or long straw in her apartment, nor for a few days after, lest the young pigs should be hid by it from their dam. She ought to be well fed when giving suck; if she is once allowed to get poor, it will take double the quantity of food and of time to restore her to her former state. If the pigs should be numerous, they, as also the sow, should be fed two or three times a-day with milk and wheat bran or meal. Should the milk be scarce, a little water, slightly warm, may be mixed with it, taking care that the mixture be not too thick, that is, more of the nature of a drink than of any thing else ; and while the pigs are feeding on this, the sow should be turned out for an hour or two, that her milk may gather a little. She and her pigs should lie dry and warm. If they are well fed, the pigs will he ready for the spit in three weeks ; and may be sold in six weeks. When the pigs are taken from the sow and weaned, whether with the breeder or purchaser, they must be regularly fed three times a-day with a little wheat bran, barley dust, or meal of some description or other, mixed with water, made milk-warm ; in a few weeks after, they may have some potatoes, turnips, or any kind of grain; and after the harvest is concluded, they may be allowed to range at large among the fields, to pick up any left corn, beans, or peas. Before going out in the morning, they may receive a feeding of offal grain ; and in the evening, an allowance of yams or turnips. They may also get the refuse from