446 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. vided, to hang before the entrance of those in which hens are sitting. Nests for breeders are generally preferred upon the ground, on account of the danger of chickens falling from those which are placed above. In making the nest, soft and short straw should be chosen. Various beds or heaps of sifted ashes or very dry sand should be placed in the yard, in which the fowls may have the com- fort and benefit of rolling and bathing themselves; and a place of refuge should be provided for such liens or chickens as the cock has taken a dislike to. The feeding room, at once warm, and airy, and large enough to accommodate twenty or thirty fowls, should have perches in it for those birds that are inclined to perch, which they will not be after they have become heavy. The floor may be slightly littered down; the litter often changed. The greatest cleanliness should be observed, and sandy gravel placed in several layers, and often changed. A sufficient number of troughs, for both water and food, should be placed around, that the stock may feed with as little interruption as possible from each other. This description of feeding room is well adapted for the feeding of young chickens; and it will be found most advantageous to put them up immediately on their being quitted by the hen, more particularly young cocks, and all those which stand high upon the legs. Under a regular system, it would be preferable to se- parate entirely the aquatic from the other poultry, the aquatic to have their houses ranged along the banks of a piece of water, with a fence and sufficiently capacious walks in front: access to the water by doors, to be clo- sed at will. The White Darking Is one of the largest of our fowls, and is a plentiful layer; the polanders are similar, but generally black ; they are very ornamental, and one of the most useful varieties —they are sometimes called everlasting layers, and being least inclined to sit of any other breed, their eggs are frequently set under other hens. The flesh of the game