503 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. tering the hive while it is feeding, or remove the weak hive to a considerable distance. A well-peopled hive will require about two pounds of sirup in the month. A new swarm ought always to be put into a new hive, which should be provided in April. Sticks in the inside are unnecessary, but the projecting straws must be singed off. Should any hive in May seem wholly destitute of drones—in Scotland they do not appear till the end of May or beginning of June—watch at the entrance of that hive which appears to have the greatest number of them, and catch forty or fifty, confine them in a box till the even- ing, when they may be easily introduced, and will be most thankfully received by the hive that appears to be without them. To supply a hive with a queen, cut out from some of the other hives that can be got at most easily, a piece of comb that has eggs in it; turn up the queeidess hive, and with the left hand, shed two of the combs a little asunder, then with the right hand put in the piece of comb between them, observing that the cells be put in the hive in the same order as in their na- tive hive, that is, the cells that were uppermost to be so still; then let the hand be removed, and the hive replaced. In England, a swarm may be expected in May, but not till June in Scotland ; preceding the swarm- ing may be observed, amongst other signs, small drops of perspiration at the entrance, and when the bees cluster on the outside of the hive, the bee-master must be con- stantly on the watch. In general, they will swarm with the first sunshine ; but if they continue to lie out when the weather is favourable, a little water may be squirted on them. The swarm once on the wing, it should never be lost sight of. Ringing of bells, and other noises, are more likely to do harm than good. It is unnecessary to prepare the hive with any thing sweet or odoriferous ; but if the swarm does not remain in one hive, give them an- other. The easiest situation for hiving a swarm is that in which the hive can be held under the swarm, and the hoes shaken into it. In all cases, a goose tving will be found of essential service to brush the bees off the post into the hive; but great care must be taken that none of the knots