351 THE PRACTICE OE COOKERY. of flour, and three quarters of a pint of beer yeast, or more if not very thick; then stir in flour till it be like a thick batter; throw some flour on the top, and set it be- fore the fire. If the yeast be good, the mixture will rise in ten minutes to the top of the pan; then stir in some more flour, and replace it before the fire. When it has risen a second time, take out as much dough as will make the rolls, knead it about five minutes, form the rolls, prick them with a fork, and put them on a tin, place them before the fire to rise for ten minutes, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. The dough for the loaves must be kneaded for twenty minutes or half an hour; form the loaves, and put them into tin pans, which may be rather more than half filled ; prick them, and place them before the fire; when they have risen nearly to the top of the pans, they may be put into the oven and baked one hour. If a metal oven is used, it must be made moderately hot, that the bread maybe well raised without being scorched. Another way to make Bread. Mix into six pounds of sifted flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of fresh sweet yeast as it comes from the brewery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk to make the whole into a stiff dough; work and knead it well upon a pasteboard, on which a little flour has been strew- ed, for fifteen or twenty minutes, then put it into a deep pan, cover it with a warmed towel, set it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut off a piece of this spunge or dough ; knead it well for eight or ten minutes, together with flour merely sufficient to keep it from adhering to the board ; put it into small tins, filling them three parts full; dent the rolls all round with a knife, and let them stand a few minutes before put- ting them into the oven. The remainder of the dough must then be worked up for loaves, and baked either in or out of a shape. Brown Bread. Either of the above receipts maybe followed, allow-