434 THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. which are cut in the manner of potato-sets, and planted, in any light soil and open situation, in the end of March. They are placed in rows three feet asunder, and a foot or fifteen inches apart in the rows. In September they are fit for use, and may be left in the ground, and dug up as wanted throughout the winter, being best when newly raised. Potato. The varieties of the potato are very numerous ; and as no particular kind will continue in perfection much more than fourteen years, new kinds are continually suc- ceeding those that have worn out. At present, for a summer crop, the ash-leaved, early dwarf, and champion, are esteemed; and, for the winter crop, the American, large and small, and the kidney, are excellent. They will thrive in any light soil, in a free, airy situation ; and if quantity of produce be particularly desired, too much manure can hardly be given; but they will be of a more delicate flavour from ground not recently enriched. The potato is propagated by cuts of the tubeus, leaving one or two eyes or buds to each cut, and eradicating all clus- tered eyes. The best shaped and cleanest potatoes are selected for this purpose ; and the cuts are the better for being allowed to dry for a day or two before planting. They are planted in drills, and covered to the depth of three or four inches; and for the early crop, which may be planted in a light warm border, about the beginning or middle of March, sixteen inches between the lines, and seven or eight inches between each plant, is sufficient; but, for the principal crop, which must be planted about the middle or end of April, two feet is allowed between the rows, and from ten to fifteen inches between the plants. The only attention the crop requires is hoeing, and drawing the earth to the stems. The oftener this last operation is performed, the greater will be the pro- duce. The early planted potatoes will be fit for use in June and July. Only a few of them should be taken up st a time, as they will not keep good beyond a day or