THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 143 tom loaf. Season with black pepper, salt, cloves, and maco; of herbs, parsley, savory, pennyroyal, a little sage and onions, all finely minced; one pound of beef suet chopped very fine, a small quantity of the inward fat of the pig finely cut, and four eggs well beaten and strained. Mix all these ingredients together, and stir in the blood. Divide it into three puddings, and boil them in pudding- cloths floured. When they are to be used, heat them whole in a Dutch oven, or cut them into slices, and broil them upon a gridiron, or they may be put into the skins. A Collar of Brawn. Wash, scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig’s head, feet, and ears ; lay them into salt and water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. To make the collar larger, boil two ox heels, with the head, feet, and ears, till all the bones can be taken out easily, then put the head round the mould, and the feet and small pieces into the middle ; put it together while hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it become cold. Boil, for half an hour, in as much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, one handful of salt, one ounce of pepper, black and white mixed, and one or two bay leaves. When cold, pour it over the brawn. Mock Brawn. Take the blade bone out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two hours or more, according to the age of the boar. When it is cold, season it very highly with black pepper, cayenne, salt, a very little allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it lie a night in this seasoning; the follow- ing day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounded veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, and an onion, a little lerffcm peel, salt, “nutmeg, white pepper, and cayenne; bind it with an egg beaten, and stuff where the bone has been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with the brown side downwards, and lay under it twigs or small sticks, to keep it from sticking to the bottom; pour in a bottle of beer, and put it into the oven. When nearly done, take it out and clear off all the fat, add a hottle of Madeira and