THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. 495 plants must be tied up every week in order to their be- ing ready for use in succession. After October, the mode adopted is, to make some trenches, and to sink the plants in them nearly to the head, where they will become sufficiently blanched in four or five weeks. Additional plants may be sunk in the trenches every fortnight when the weather happens to be so mild and dry as to permit it. Endive thus blanched in the earth must be dug out with the spade. Celery. There are two varieties, one with hollow, the other with solid stalks; the solid stalk is generally preferred; an- other variety, with large red stalks, is also esteemed. Cele- ry must be sown at several different times, in order to ensure a succession of plants fit for transplanting at various seasons. The first sowing is commonly made about the end of March or beginning of April, in a sheltered bor- der ; the next about the beginning of May, on a moist border. About the end of April, the plants of the first sowing will be ready for pricking into nursery beds of rich earth, in which they may stand three or four inches separate. Water is given, and the plants are shaded from the sun for a few days. A quantity of every suc- cessive sowing should be thus pricked out, in order to strengthen them. Towards the end of May, the most forward plants may be transplanted into trenches for blanching. In dry weather, at this season, water is given freely both to the transplanted plants and those left in the seed-bed. The usual mode of transplanting and blanching is the following : Trenches are formed at the distance of three or four feet from each other, a foot and a half wide, and about a foot in depth. The soil in the bottom of this trench is delved and worked fine, and a little rotten dung is mixed with it. The soil for celery should be deep and rich, somewhat moist, yet of a light nature. The earth taken from the trench is laid in ridges on each side, ready to be drawn in as wanted. The plants, having the tops of the long leaves cut off, and any