494' THE PRACTICE OF COOKERY. are esteemed; of the cabbage lettuces, the imperial and grand admiral, or admiral. The large Roman and the Cilicia lettuces are those chiefly used in soups. The seed is sown broadcast, and merely raked into the ground. A small sowing may be made in January, the seedlings being transplanted in March. A considerable crop is sown in the end of February, and the principal sowing i3 in March and April. A part of each crop should be re- gularly transplanted to come in season immediately after those left in the seed-bed ; they are fittest for transplant- ing when they have four or six leaves; and they are pla- ced from ten to fifteen inches apart, according to the size they are likely to attain. To forward the cabbaging of coss lettuce, the leaves may be tied together in the man- ner practised with endive. If the winter be not very se- vere, lettuces will stand without much injury, close by the foot of a south wall, and be fit for use in January, Fe- bruary, and March. Endive. The green curled-leaved and the white curled-leaved are the best kinds; the green curled-leaved,being the most hardy, is used for the latest crops. The 6eed, which must be scattered thinly, is sown some time between the middle of May and middle of June ; another sowing is made in July. When the seedlings are three or four inches high, they are transplanted into a well-prepared bed of rich soil, in rows a foot asunder, at the distance of ten inches from each other in the row. In dry weather, watering is necessary. The blanching must next be commenced ; it is accomplished, when the plants are perfectly dry, by tying up the heads with strands of bass-mat; some nicety is requisite in gathering the leaves together in regular order, 60 as not to cross each other, and in rejecting such leaves as are unhealthy. The plants are, at first, tied two inches below the top, afterwards about the middle of the plant. In three weeks or a month they will be found to be sufficiently blanched ; but as they will con- tinue in this state fit for use only a fortnight, a few