ADVICE. X region are named opposite each outline. The student, however, can follow to a certain extent his own taste in this matter. If he be skilful with his pencil or brush, he can introduce into a single outline several layers of muscles by means of transparent washes. He can, if he chooses, finish some of the outlines more highly. Those who have but little knowledge of drawing can mark the origin and insertion of muscles, and indicate the course of the principal vessels and nerves by mere strokes. Such a method may be rough, but it is clear and simple, and will be a great help to the memory, particularly where a muscle has wide attachments, or when it arises from several bones.1 As the ' Outlines' are designed to show the human body, as a whole rather than in parts or regions, the student can in many instances work beyond his special dissection. He may carry out the same method, or may vary the process, as he finds best. The lines he first makes to limit his drawing will not interfere with this plan; but he should remember that those structures alone are named which are fairly contained within the limits of a given region, and which can be wholly or in part indicated with clearness and advantage. Should he utilise the whole outline in this manner, the dissections before him will be the best guides, and he will be safe in following them. A list of the structures, which may be filled in, faces each outline. Those muscles printed in italics indicate that they are for the most part, or entirely, hidden by superficial structures. An asterisk following a muscle is intended to show that it is removed. It is named again in order to remind the dissector that he will do well to mark again its attachments. He may use red for the origin and blue for the insertion. Coloured ink, used with a pen, will make his work neat and rapid. Filling in an outline will be found an excellent test of growing knowledge, and by this simple method he will do much, as his facts accumulate, to save the drudgery of incessant repetition. If he be dis- secting a right limb, he can use the outlines of the left for this purpose, as well as for recording occasional abnormalities. 'The Trapezius is a good example of the livst condition, and the Flexor Brevis Pollicis of the second.