HINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 63 chefs attention need not be distracted from tbe other. On these grounds the iced entree is a grand invention. It can be made early in the day, and then set in the ice-box, ready to follow the fish or releve, as the case may be, with- out delay, and the sauce can also be similarly treated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven are a god- send to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within a few minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the un- happy man who has (say) to turn out a delicately grilled dish of cutlets a la Maintenon, with kramouskys aux huUres to follow—^independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your e^itrees, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as far as to say that nothing should be repeated. Tou must not give, for instance, a consomme de volaille, and presently follow it with croquettes de volaille, or even fowl as a rot. Mutton appeariug in a side-dish must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though following this maxim to the best of our power, we cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madras. The market supply is alas! too meagre, as a rule, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. To return to our class list of entrees, I cannot too strongly urge you to go in for dishes from class one more than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on whose sides the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, holding in its centre a puree of celery, petits pois, or sauce soubise ? The grid-iron is invaluable : the