32 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. consider attentively tlie following recipe for tliat most valuable of culinary operations. Put a piece of soup-meat,—say of four pounds weight, in the proportion of three pounds of flesh to one of bone,— (the recipe can, of course, be followed by adding or reducing as you may require but preserving like proportion) tightly bound with a string, with two ounces of salt and the bones separately broken up, into a stock pot filled with water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradually heated. As this takes place, a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. When nearly boiling, a coffee cupful of cold water should be thrown into the pot to accelerate the rising of the scum. The clearness of the soup will depend remember, upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This having been done; put into the saucepan the following vegetables wliich should have been previously carefully cleaned and cut up, viz. :—a couple of large white onions, a clove of garlic, two large or three small carrots, two or three tuimips, six leeks, one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and two cloves in the onion. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, and a handful of whole pepper, —a tea-spoonful each of di*ied thyme and marjoram will be quite enough. It will be found that by adding the vegetables, the boiling of the broth will be thrown back ; as soon however as the bubbling recommences, watch the vegetables carefully, and remove them when they are done. If you leave them in the stock pot after they have been cooked, they will spoil the soup. Remove the muslin bag also. You can next put in a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom ketchup ; when the pot-au-feu is, so to speak, thus com- pleted, it must be left to simmer slowly from three to four