CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 278 pint of good beef gravy, add tbe liquor you strained from the tin of oysters, the rind of a lime, a blade of mace, a glass of sherry and a table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup; heat up gently, skimming off the scum which the oyster liquor may throw up, and when thoroughly blended, strain the gravy off, and pour it into your packed pie-dish, reserving about a ooffee-oupful to pour through the top of the orust at the end of the baking. 2. “ Chiclcen and Tongue Pie.”—A chicken, an ox tongue, and six mutton cutlets from the neck. Cut up a chicken as if for curry, slice up a cold-boiled, home-cured tongue, and trim six nice mutton outlets from the neck as if for an entree. Throw the chicken scraps, the tongue skin and trimmings, and all the remnants of mutton left after shap- ing the cutlets, into a large sauce-pan with the materials for gravy flavouring recommended in the recipe for the “ Domestic Pie” and make a nice broth with them ; when the broth is nearly ready, give it half a glass of Madeira, and strain when it is finished. Pack the pie thus:—a dust of chopped parsley at the bottom, then the mutton cutlets, above them the slices of tongue, and the chicken at the top. Pour in the gravy, garnish the top with hard-boiled eggs, cover the pie with a good crust, and bake. 3. “ Babbit Pie.”—One good sized rabbit, half a pound of bacon, forcemeat, and a pound of gravy beef. Skin and wash a fine rabbit, cut it up in the usual way as if for a stew, and put the pieces to soak in cold water. When quite clean, drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and set them aside. Put the head, the lower joints of the legs, and all scraps of the rabbit, with the beef, and the usual ingredients for flavouring a gravy already laid down, into a large sauce-pan, and make the best gi’avy you can with them for the pie. When this has been done to your satisfaction, and the fat has'been skimmed off the surface of the liquor, proceed in this way : Make a plain force-