262 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. One of the chief causes of failure in attaining light crust is the moisture and oiliness of our butter. All Madras-made butter is full of water, and even English butter requires close pressure before the pastry-cook dare use it. Butter for this purpose should be firm, not frozen like a stone, but quite hard enough to cut into pieces. A judicious use of ice for this ingredient is therefore unavoid- ble if you desire to use it with success in pastry. It is on this account, I fancy, that Ramasamy has discovered that suet makes lighter puff paste in this climate than butter : it is firm, dry, and capable of being chopped up and strewn over the dough; whereas, in nineteen cases out of twenty, the butter he uses is in a semi-state of liquefac- tion, and utterly unfit to mix with the fiour. If, then, you cannot command a good supply of excel- lent butter, and undertake that it shall be iced as I have described, you will find it better far, as a rule, to use clarified beef suet for all ordinary pastry. Proceed in this Tvay : procure as much good, pale yellow, fresh suet from a sirloin of beef (that surrounding the kidney is the best), and cut it into pieces. Place a large sauce-pan or stew-pan on the fire, and fill it nearly full of water; when the water boils, throw in the fat. By degrees it will melt, the skin and impure fragments will sink, and a rich oil will float upon the surface of the water, which should be kept at a simmering pitch. When satisfied that the whole of the fat has melted, suspend operations, take the pan from the fii-e, and let it get cold ; when cold, the clarified fat will become congealed upon the surface of the water. Now, take it off in flakes, drain every drop of water from it, and put it into a clean sauce-pan ; melt it again, and strain it through a piece of muslin into an earthenware bowl. The fat will again consolidate,—in a firm, pale yellow cake, as it were, far harder than butter, though quite as sweet and clean, and the very thing you want for ordinary pastiy^ and