MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 37? tlie juice of a lime, with one glass of claret. Bring this sauce to boiling point, let it simmer awhile, and then strain it. Replace it in the sauce-pan, thicken it with butter and a little flour, colour it with caramel, and place youi- six fillets in it to gently heat up without coming to the boil; when quite hot, place the fillets in their dish, pouring the sauce round them and serve, with a crisply fried curl of bacon, between each of them. Petits pois verts should fill the centre of the dish. 4.—Put eight nicely trimmed choplets of mutton into a stew-pan with some scraps of bacon. Mutton cutlets a la carrot, dried herbs, pepper, salt, Mamteuon. . , „ , , , and a pinch of grated nutmeg, with a pint of good gravy, and a glass of sherry, and gently stew the little chops till done. Now lay them out on a large dish, covered by another with a weight upon it; when quite cold, trim them finally into shape if necessary. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which they were stewed, remove all fat, and set it on one side. Now mince an onion very small, and a few capers, with two or three trufifies also. Fry the onions a goldqp brown, add the minced capers and trufifies with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a little of the gravy, thicken it with a couple of eggs, and then put the mince away to get cold: cut some papers for your cutlets and oil or butter them: now spread your cold thick mince over yoUr cutlets liberally, roll them, or rather fold them in their papers most carefully, and broil them on the grid-iron sufificiently long to heat them thoroughly;—or if preferred, they can be just as well heated in the oven. Serve your cutlets in their papers, and let a rich sauce be handed round in a boat made of the remains of the gravy originally got from the cooking of the cutlets, slightly thickened with biitter and flour, flavoured with red currant jelly, anchovy vine- gar, and a spoonful of sherry, all judiciously applied. 38