28 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Althougli I am strongly against th.e use of tinned things to the extent that many allow, there are nevertheless many articles which you must have in the store-room :— pickles, sauces, jams, bacon, cheese, maccaroni, vermicelli, vinegars, flavouring essences, the invaluable truflle, tart fruits, biscuits, isinglass, arrowroot, oatmeal, pearl barley, cornflour, olives, capers, dried herbs, and so on. Grated Parmesan cheese (sold in bottles by Crosse and Blackwell) should never be forgotten, the salad oil should be the best procurable, and no store-room should be without tarragon vinegar, anchovy vinegar, French vinegar, and white wine vinegar. Amongst sauces I consider “ Harvey” the best for general use ; Sutton’s “ Empress of India,” is a strong sauce with a real flavour of mushrooms ; Moir’s sauces and “ Reading sauce” are very trustworthy, and thei'e are others which, no doubt, commend themselves to different palates, but I denounce “ Worcester sauce” and “ Tapp’s sauce” as agents far too powerful to be trusted to the hands of the native cook. Sutton’s essence of anchovies is said to possess the charm of not clotting, or forming a stoppage in the neck of the bottle. I have a deep respect for both walnut and mushroom ketchup, soy, and tomato conserve. Then as special trifles, we must not forget caviare, olives farcies, and anchovies in oil. The cook should be carefully shown the use of flavour- ing essences, and also that of dried herbs. He ought also to be taught never to run out of bread crumbs. Stale fine crumbs should be made every now and then, and kept corked down in bottles for use when required. The very unsightly appearance presented by fish, cutlets, etc., crumbed with fresh spongy crumbs should warn us, for stale bread is never to be had when we suddenly want it. Red currant jelly is very useful ; the store-room should never be “ out” of it. I shall treat of tinned vegetables hereafter in their proper place. Macedoines, fonds d’arti-