183 THE SAVOURY OMELETTE. into quarters, pick out the seeds, and let tke watery juice I'un oif. Cut a sweet onion into tke thinnest slices possible. Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a small saucepan, cast into it the onion slices ; let them cook without browning; then add the drained tomato quarters, pepper and salt; toss the sauce-pan about till the tomatoes are cooked wliich will be in about ten minutes. Keep the mixture hot, and pour it over the surface of an ordinary omelette just as you are on the point of turning it out of the frying- pan. The omelette will roll over of its own accord envelop- ing the tomatoes within it as it passes into the dish. The “ omelette au Parmesan" (or any mild dry cheese) is a specialite, as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt and black pepper to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of rich cream, if possible, or new milk, compose the mixture. In- corporate the ingredients, and proceed as recorded in the previous directions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture on the surface quite sets, so that there may be an exudation of creamy moisture in the dish, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were. Delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And, now, we come to the Cure’s piece de resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of preserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings ft la sardine very finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley, should be tossed in butter awhile, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter, a few drops of lime juice and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get