282 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. bouquet of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a little mixed spice, a dozen pepper corns, a little caramel for colouring, and salt to taste, and make the very richest gva,vy in the style of “ aspic jelly” stock. Menu No. 9. Instead of tarragon vinegar, add to the broth which you get after straining, one glass of Madeira, or fruity sherry, a tea- spoonful of reduced vinegar, one table-spoonful of red ciirrant jelly, and half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, boil the gravy up again, and then set it to get cool prior to its being poured into the pie. The game of which the pie is to be made should be carefully honed, and if of a large kind, cut up into neat pieces ; skin, scraps, and trimmings should be cast into the stock-pot with the mashed bones. Arrange the meat when trimmed satisfactorily upon a large flat dish, dredge it over with flour, and give it a dusting of “ spiced pepper” which ought to be specially prepared for the occasion. After having rubbed the pie- dish well with a shallot, spread the thin coating of force- meat over the bottom of it, and up the sides, as already mentioned. Next, place a good layer of tender beef, or mutton collops, each rolled round a slice of bacon, over the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish, and then go on packing the game meat, with slices of ham, bacon, or Bologna sausage, dotted in here and there, and frequent dustings of “ spiced pepper” until the dish is fllled. For a special occasion, a bottle of truffles should be opened and used in this way:—Trim the truffles into dice, chopping up quite small the parings and trimmings which are left: this mince ought to be used in the liver force- meat : the dice should be tossed awhile in melted butter in a frying-pan, with a glass of Madeira, and a spoonful of good gravy and then cleverly put in amongst the game meat during the packing of the pie-dish. If mushrooms happen to be available as they often are during rainy weather, treat them, after cleaning and peeling them.