172 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and ’worked up with melted butter and Hour, generally produces a favourable impression. The chief features to be noted in cooking hashes and MINCES are much the same. Prepare the meat, after having carefully cut off all browned parts, as you may desire. Make the best broth you can with the trimmings and bones ; if you have any stock or gravy so much the better ; thicken slightly, and flavour this according to your taste, and the materials that may be within your reach; strain it if necessary, add a dessert-spoonful of Madeira, or Marsala, and then warm up your meat. A mince, or a hash, should be allowed to stand in its sauce, with a gentle heat under the sauce-pan, for as long a time as can be allowed; when required for the table, increase the heat, and the moment the sui’face steams, the dish is ready for service. “ But,” says the inquisitive disciple, “ what are you to do if you have no bones, no gravy, and no stock ?” to him I reply as follows :—After having trimmed the meat to your fancy, take all the skin and ugly fragments that remain, and place them on a separate plate. Now, choose a Bombay onion, and mince it fine; place a good sized sauce-pan on the fire, put a pat of butter at the bottom of it (say a couple of ounces if you can spare as much) melt it, throw in the minced onion, fry it a light golden brown, add hot water now gradually, and thi’ow in your scraps of meat, six pepper corns, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea- spoonful of salt, an anchovy, a piece of celery or its leaves, a carrot cut up, a bunch of curly paraley, the peel of a lime, and a table-spoonful of mushi’oom ketchup, with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and let the contents of your sauce-pan simmer away until you are satisfied that you have extracted all the good to be got out of your several ingredients. Taste the broth as it is cooking, and correct any errors that may occur to you on the spot: when ready, strain it into a bowl, and skim off any fat that may rise..