324 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Fresh-water fish is often to be had by men out in camp. In cooking them, many recipes hereafter given for fillet^ fish may be followed : clean them thoroughly, wash them well to get rid of all muddy taste, scale, trim, and soak them after cleaning, in water. A fish like murrel may be treated like a pike :—after having been carefully cleansed, and trimmed, stuff it with turkey forcemeat (page 108) sew it up, trim it in a circular shape with its tail in its mouth and bake it in a pie-dish surrounded by chicken stock about half an inch deep. A glass of any white wine like hock, chablis, or sauterne may be put into the stock, an onion also, and any vegetables you can spare. The fish should be basted every now and then, and when it has absorbed the gravy and seems soft, take it out of the oven. Put a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on the top of it, and serve in its own dish with a napkin folded round it. A good sized murrel will take from twenty minutes to half an hour in baking. A stuflSng made with a tin of oysters, well drained and cut up, mixed with a half pint of bread-crumbs soaked in milk or stock, some spiced pepper, a little chopped very finely pared lime peel, and a couple of minced anchovies, all stirred together, and bound with a couple of eggs, is highly acceptable with a murrel. If you have no oysters, pound a good quantity of fresh-water sJvrimps, and mix them with the stuffing. Eels ought to be slightly boiled fii-st, whatever you do with them, you then get rid of their oiliness. After being thus treated, you can cut them into fillets for frying, for stewing, or for a pie. Bel fillets dipped in batter, and fried in oil or fat (lots of it) with a plain sharp sauce are delicious. The matelote will be found in the jwentw. Tinned Australian, and other preserved lumps of meat, are valuable additions to the store box of the jungle- wallah, but they require very delicate handling, because I they are almost always overdone. The really nutritious ^