216 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. breakfast-cupful of rich cream, stir it well, and then pour the cream into a slop basin in which a clean piece of soft linen has been laid. When the cream has been thus turned into the cloth, draw the ends of the cloth together, holding the cream as it were in a bag, tie it tightly with string, and hang the bag in a cool place to drip ; when the drip- ping of moisture from the bag ceases, the cheese is ready : take the bag down, turn the contents out into a clean cloth, mould it into a circular form, or shape it in a neat square, and serve it on a dish garnished with green leaves. Let it stand in the ice-box till wanted. A day will be found sufficient for the making of this kind of cheese in warm weather and about forty-eight hours on the Hills. Use a porous sort of cloth for the operation, so as to encourage the escape of the whey from the cheese. It is sometimes advisable to change the cloth during the draining process. Fancy butters have of late become justly popular. There are many ways of making them. The objects you must keep in view when composing a fancy butter, may be thus summed up :—a pleasant flavour, a pretty tint, and novelty. To secure the first it is imperatively necessary that the basis upon which you work be beyond suspicion. The butter you use must be the best possible. If, there- fore, you cannot make it at home from cream you have set under yom' own eye, I strongly advise you to use that of a freshly opened “ Denmark” tin. You must wash the butter well with milk, and form it with your butter-bat, setting it in ice afterwards. The colouring is clap-trap work : you can get a nice green tint from “ spinach greening,” and a pretty orange scarlet from crab, or tinned lobster coral. Novelty rests with yourself : you can ring the changes upon pounded anchovies, sardines, soft lierring roes, lobster, prawns, crab, and pilchards : you can use capers, parsley, water-cress, garden-cress, gherkins, and olives. By the judicious selection of your ingredients, all