CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 188 mayonnaise, a salad ought certainly to accompany the cold meat, and potatoes artistically dressed may go round. Canapes form a delicious luncheon dish, void:—cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, and two inches long if heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular. Fry these a pale golden colour in butter, and set them on a dish to get cold. To complete the canape, first spread a layer of “ green butter” over each piece of fried bread, upon that place a layer of ' prawn or lobster meat pounded with butter, and slightly { seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert- | knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish for serving, pour a dessert- spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, iced. A little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judiciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise -j; dressing. The dish should stand on ice before serving. Instead of prawn meat, you can use cold chicken, finely sliced or pounded, an atom of the divine truffle might then ;• i be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue i ^ might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the * , flowed- or cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold -• ; vegetable of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. • :• Fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, ■, lobster, herring a la sardine, sardines, lax, preserved tunny, ?- ^ and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the ' I last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and .. i bones removed, reposing on the green butter ; over them . .1 a goodly sprinkling of sliced olives, then the lettuce leaf, ^ &c., as previously described—“ say, dost thou like the picture ?” y > In houses where the cook can really master an omelette . • t ■ i ■ i