LONDON: GEO R 0 E R O U T L E D G E & S G ^ THf: ‘BROADWAY, LUDGATE.?V(I 'V.. VicomtcdeBragcIonuc,2vols. Dumas. Lewis Arundel, by Smedley. Frank Fairlegli, by Smedley. Harry Coverdale, by Smedley. The Colville Family, by Smedley. Monte Cristo, Complete, by Dumas. Memoirs of a Physician, by Dumas. I The Three Musketeers, and Twenty Years After, by Dumas. I The Taking of the Bastile, Dumas. Tristram Shandy, and Sentimental I Journey, by Sterne. Carleton's Traits and Stories of the I Irish Peasantry, complete edition. NOVELS AT TWO SHILLINGS. W. H. AINSWORTH. Boscobel. Manchester Rebels. Preston Fight. Beau Nash. Oapt. ARMSTRONG. The Two Midshipmen. The Medora. The War Hawk. The Young Commander. BERTHA H. BUXTON. Jennie of ‘ The Prince’s.’ Won! Fetterless. Great Grenfell Gardens. Oapt. OHAMIER. Life of a Sailor. Ben Brace. A. B. EDWARDS. The Ladder of Life. : Half a Million of Money. ^ Miss PERRIER. ; Marriage. The Inheritance. ' Destiny. ' FIELDING. ! Tom Jones. ' Joseph Andrews. Amelia. GERSTAECKER. A Wife to Order. The Two Convicts. , The Feathered Arrow. Each for Himself. I G. R. GLEIG. I — -i King’s Own Borderers. Tlio White Cockade. Dick Rodney. First Love & Last Love. The Girl He Married. Lady Wedderburn’s Wish. Jack Manly. Only an Ensim. Adventures of Rob Roy. Under the Red Dragon. The Queen’s Cadet. Shall I Win Her ? Fairer than a Fairy. The Secret Dispatch. One of the Six Hundred. Morley Ashton. Did She Love Him ? The Ross-shire Bufis. f I % I M LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY f Classmark: COOiCE^'/ 0106 01122 4762 r ’) & ter. ss. is. le. » I J CEOiiGli liOVTLEDGE &■ SOK^. I s I I .GEORGE ROVTLEDGE cS- SONS. novels at two shillings, continued. G. P. R- JAMES. The Brigand. _ ' Morley Ernstein. Darnley. Richelieu. The Gipsy. Arabella Stuart. The Woodtuan. .Agincourt. Russell. I The King’s Highway. ] Castle ot Ehrenstein. | The Stepmother. i Forest Days. The Huguenot. 1 The Man at Arms. Whim and its Con-1 sequences. Henry Masterton. The Convict. Mary of Burgundy. Attila. Margaret Graham. Cowrie. Delaware. Henry of Guise. Dark Scenes of History. The Robber. One in a Thousand. The .Smuggler. De L’Orme. Heidelberg. Charles Tyrrell. The False Heir. Castleneau. SirTheodore Broughton. The Forgery. The Gentleman of the Old School. The Jacquerie. , Philip Augustus, The Black Eagfe. Rose D’Albret. The Old Dominion. Leonora D’Orco. John Marston Hall. Beauchamp. Arrah Neil. My Aunt Pontypool. R. M. JEPHSON. Tom Bullkley of Lis- sington. The Girl He Left Behind Him. A Pink Wedding. The Roll of the Drum. With the Colours. HENRY KINGSLEY. Stretton. Old Margaret. The Harveys. Hornby Mills. JOHN LANG. Will He Marry Her ? i The Ex-Wife. CHARLES LEVER. Arthur O’Leary. Con Cregan. Horace Templeton. S. LOVER. Rory O’More. Handy Andy. Lord LYTTON. Pelham. Paul Clifford. Eugene Aram. Last Days of Pompeii. Rienzi. Leila, and Pilgrims of the Rhine. The Last of the Barons. Ernest Maltravers. ■Alice; or, The Mysteries. Night and Morning. Godolphin. The Disowned. Devereux. The Caxtons. My Novel, 2 vols. Lucretia. Harold. Zanonii What will He Do with It ? 2 vols. A Strange Story. The Coming Race. Kenelm Chillingly. The Parisians, 2 vols. Falkland, and Zicci. Pausanius. Capt. MARRYAT. (.Standard Novels), in bds, Jacob Faithful. Japhet in Search of a Father. The King’s Own. Midshipman Easy. Newton Forster. Pacha of Many Tales. Rattlin the Reefer. The Poacher. The Phantom Ship. The Dog Fiend. ,, Percival Keene. Frank Mildmay. Peter Simple. W. H. MAXWELL. Stories of Waterloo. Brian O’Linn; or, Luck is Everything. Captain Blake. The Bivouac. Hector O’Halloran. Captain O’Sullivan. Stories of the Penin- sular War. Wild Sports in the West. W. J. N. NEALE. Thd'Lost Ship. The Captain’s Wife. The Pride of the Mess. The Flying Dutchman, Will Watch. Cavendish. Gentleman Jack. Mrs. RADCLIFFE. | Mysteries ot Udolpho. i Romance of the Forest. MAYNE REID. The Quadroon. The War Trail. The Scalp Hunters. The Rifle Rangers. The Maroon. The White Chief. The Wild Huntress. The White Gauntlet. The Half-Blood. Headless Horseman. Lost Lenore. The Hunters’ Feast. The Wood Rangers. The Tiger Hunter. The Boy Slaves. The Cliff Climbers. The Giraffe Hunters. Afloat in the Forest. The Ocean Waifs. The White Squaw. The Fatal Cord. The Guerilla Chief. RICHARDSON. Clarissa Harlowe. Pamela. Sir .Charles Grandison. Sir WALTER SCOTT. Waverley. Guy Mannering. Old Mortality. Heart of Midlothian. Rob Roy. Ivanhoe. The Antiquary. Bride of Lammermbor. The Black Dwarf, and A Legend of Montrose. The Monastery. The Abbot. Kenilworth. The Pirate. The Fortunes of Nigel. Peveril of the Peak. Quentin Durward. St. Ronan’s'Well. Redgauntiet. The Betrothed and High- land Widow. The Talismgn, and Two Drovers. Woodstock. The Fair Maid of Perth. Aline of Geierstein. Count Robert of Paris. TheSurgeon’sDaughter.NOVELS AT TWO SHILLINGS, coitiinued. GEOnCE ROUTLEDGE &• SONS. ALBERT SMITH. , The Marchioness of Brinvilliers. [bury. | Adventures of Mr. Led- ‘ Scattergood I'ainily. : Cliristophcr Tadpole. The Potlleton Legacy. SMOLLETT. ' Roderick Random. . Humphry Clinker. Peregrine Pickle. i ANNIE THOMAS. False Colours. The Dower House. The Cross of Honour. ANTHONY TROLLOPE. Golden Lion of Granpere i John Caldigate. ' Mrs. TROLLOPE. One F.iult. , The Willow Barnaby. I The Widow Married. The Ward. Love and Je.alousy. JULES VERNE. Adventures of Captain Hatteras. Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea. Five Weeks in a Bal- loon, and a Journey to Centre of the Earth. Miss WETHERELL. The Old Helmet. Mclbourii. House. Ellen .Montgomery’s Bookshelf. The Two School Girls. ' The Wide, Wide World, i Queechy. j Author of ‘ Whltefriars', Whitefriars. ' Whilejiall. Ca-sar Borgia. Owen Tudor. The Maid of Orleans. Westminster Abbey. Madeleine Graham. Armourer’s Daughter. EDMUND YATES. Running the Gauntlet. Kissing the Rod. The Rock Ahead. Black Sheep. A Righted Wrong. The Yellow Flag. The Impending Sword. A Waitin'; Race. Broken u. Harness. Two by j ricks. A Silent \\ itness. [tient. Dr. Wainwright's Pa- V>’recked in Port. Business ol Pleasure. VARIOUS Caleb Williams, by Godwin. The Scottish Chiefs, by Miss Porter. Torlogh O’Brien, by Le Fanu. The Hour and the Man. Martineau. The Pastor’s Fireside. Jane Porter. The Prairie Bird, by Sir C. Murray. The Rifleman, by Capt. Rafter. Salathiel, by Dr. Croiy. The Clockraaker, by “ Sam Slick.” The Two Frigates, by Cupples. The Bashful Irishman. Deeds, Not Words,,by M. M. Bell. The Secret of a Life, ditto. Murder will Out. Sir Roland Ashton, by Lady C. Lo.-\'. The Greatest Plague of Life, wii.. Cruikshank’s Plates. The Attach^, by “Sam Slick.” ■The Green Hand; by Cupples. Hajji Baba of Ispahan, by Morier. Whom to Marry, with Cruik.shank’s Plates. [“ Sam Slick.” Letter Bag of the Great Western, by Black and Gold, by P. Sanders. Vidocq, the French Police Spy. Gilderoy, ^ Fittis. Singleton Fontenoy, by Hannay. The Lamplighter, by Miss Cummins. Gideon Giles the Roper. T. Miller. The Wandering Jew, by Sue. The Mysteries of Paris, ditto. Land and Sea Tales, “ Old Sailor.” Mabel Vaughan, by Miss Cummins. Peep o’ Day, by Banim. The Smuggler, ditto. Stuart of Dnnleath. Hon. Mrs. Norton. Adventures of a Strolling Player. The Solitary Hunter, by Palisser. Kaloolah, by Mayo. Won in a Canter, by "Old Calabar.” Blount Tempest. J. C. M. Bellew. AUTHORS. Mornings at Bow Street, with Cruik-. shank’s Plates. The Arctic Regions. P. L. Simmonds. Miss Forrester. Author of “Archie Lovell.” The Pretty Widow, by Chas, Ross. Recommended to Mercy. Love Stories of English Watering Places. Saved by a Woman, by Author ol “No Appeal.’’ At His Gates, by Mrs. Oliphant. Helen, by Miss Edgeworth. First Lieutenant’s Story. Lady Long. Clement Lorimer, by A. B. Reach. Tom Cringle’s Log. Michael Scott. Private Life of an Eastern King. Hearths & Watchfires. Col. Colomb. The City of the Sultan, Miss Pardoe. Through the Mist, byjeanie Hering. Tales of the Coastguard. Warneford. Leonard Lindsay, oy A. B. Reach. Traits and Stories of Irish Peasantry ist & and series, 2 vols. Carleton. Romance of Military Life. Robber of the Rhine, by Ritchie. The Polish Lancer, by Keelstab. Jasper Lyle, by Mrs. Ward. Flower of the Forest, by St. John. Cruise of the Midge, by M. Scott. Thaddeus of Warsaw. Jane Porter The Hazelhurst Mystery. Les Misirables, by Victor Hugo. Love or Lucre Iw R. Black. Straflbrd, by H. B. Baker. The Prodigal Daughter, Mark Hope Madge Dunraven. [Kingston Roger Kyfiin’s Ward, by W. H. G Miss Roberts's Fortune. S.Winthrop An Uninliabitod House. Mrs.Riddell Children of the Abbey. K. M. RocheThe University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books The Gift of Mr. Preston ig62'I'liK Patijnt Ki.utuiatuh fok Decanti.no Wine. (See iwgc i;>. Oktui.an.s. (Sec p.igc 72.) From " Oonhi's Bints oj Huropr. "11M f^S ^ n HINTS FOR THE TABLE OR THE 6£0iv0mir of (!5oob i^tbing; WITH A FEW WORDS ON WI N E S LONDON AND NEW YORK GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONSDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 Ll-Ji'iAii/ https://archive.org/details/b21526084INTRODUCTION. This little work has originated in the refined character of what, in the present day, are termed, par excellence, “ the Pleasures of the Table.” Its main object is to show that the perfection of social enjoyment is neither so costly nor so difficult of attainment as is generally supposed; and, that such pleasures ennoble rather than enervate the mind—thus realizing “ The feast of reason and the flow of soul.” The means by which the Author has sought to work out his design, will, it is hoped, he found to combine entertainment with utility, and amusement with prac- tical information. lie has endeavoured to avail himself of the latest inquiries, especially in Dietetic Chemistry, and adapted their results to the increase of the comforts of every-day life; whilst he has also called to his aid the sister sciences of Zoology and Botany, to determine points which have not yet been tested by common ex- perience. In this pleasant task, very many New Facts have been assembled in the several branches of the Art of Refection. The subject is worthy of all the attention it has re- ceived : for the popular mind has long been disabused of the error associating habits of excess with what may be biv Introdtcction. called “ the Economy of Good Livingand our Erench neighboilrs have clearly illustrated the wide contrast be- tween the grossness of Gourmandism, and the refined ■enjoyment of the Gourmet. That such inquiries are not derogatory to exalted genius is shown in the fact of the most illustrious chemical philosopher of our time*— he who filled the Chair of the Eoyal Society to the admiration of the scientific world—having recorded among the most elaborate pursuits of experimental philosophy,—the excellence of a fish-dinner on the Danube. As concentration produces high convenience, the fol- lowing information is conveyed in the fewest words con- sistent with perspicuity, so as to comprise within these pages very nearly One Thousand Hints, on Dietetics. The Art op Dining. The Table. Cookery. Carving. Soups. Turtle. Fish. Whitebait. Oyster-eating. Meats. Savoury Pies. Poultry and Game. Sauces and Gravies. Vegetables. Salads. Sweet Dishes. Bread. Cheese and Butter. Malt Liquors. The Dessert. Wines. New Mode op Decanting Wine. The Art op Drinking Wine. Spirits. Liqueurs. Making Punch. French Coffee. SoDAWaTER AND SUM-MER DrINKS. Smoking. National Dinners. Table Anecdotes. It should be added, that elegance and economy of ex- penditure have been studiously kept in view : save in a few instances of epicurean fantasies, which have been * Sir Humphry Davy.—See page 37 of the present volume.Litroduction. V quoted rather as the curiosities of the subject, than for their direct example. The above enumeration may be startling. It is, however, an excellent maxim of home-philosophy, to “ aim at perfection in everything, though in most things it is rmattainable : for they who aim at it, and persevere, will come much nearer to it than those whose laziness and despondency make them give it up as imattainable/’ *,* The Quotations from the Quarterly Review which occur in the subsequent pages, are principally from the following Papers and Numbers of that valuable Journal: Cookery No. 104 Date 1834. Gastronomy and Gastronomers No. 107 — 1834. Walker’s “ Original” No. 110 — 1836. Yarrell’s British Fishes No. 116 — 1837. Codes of Manners and Etiquette ... No. 118 — 1837. Portions of these Papers have been reprinted, with additions, in “The Art of Dining, or Gastronomy and Gastronomers,” in Murray' Railway Reading, 1852,by Swift.”—Pages 63, C4. THE FRONTISPIECE. Ortolaks.—These specimens have been engraved, by permission, from Mr. Gould’s great work on the Birds of Europe. The Ortoian will be found described at pp. 72, 73. The Patent Elutuiator, for Decanting Wine, is described at pp.124 7. THE VIGNETTE. The Cut has been reduced from the vignette to Nichols’s Biographical Anecdotes of William Hogarth, Third Edition, 1785. It represents Hogarth’s Invitation Card, engraved from the original, then “in Charles-street, Grosvenor-square, in the possession of Dr. Wright.’’ The illustrative note is as follows: “A specimen of Hogarth’s pro- pensity to merriment, on the most trivial occasions, is observable in one of his cards requesting the company of Dr. Arnold King to dine with him at the Mitre. Within a circle, to which the knife and fork are the supporters, the written part is contained. In the centre is drawn a pie, with a mitre on the top of it, and the invitation of our artist concludes with the following sport on three of the Greek letters —to Eta Beta P>j. The rest of the inscription is not very accurately spelt. A quibble by Hogarth is surely as respectable as a conundrumgeon, 51; Caviare, 52; Plaice, Skate. Bis;,i, and Hake, 64 Buffo— COiNTENTS Dietetics: 1 — 12 Choice of Food, 1; Digestion, Pepsin, and Artificial Gastric Jnice, 2; Digestion of various Food, 3; What an Epicure eats in his life- time, 3; Liebig’s Theory of Nutrition, 6; Nourishment in Food— Digestibility—Education of the Stomach, 6; Theory of Cookery, 7; Hours of Meals, 8; Drinking at Meals—Water-drinking, 9; Eemedies for Indigestion, 10; Sportsmen’s Living—Exercise and Meals, 11; Home Proverbs, 12. The Aet of Cookeey : 11 — 18 Opinions, 12; Gourmandize—French and English Cookery, 13; French Cookery—Salt and the Eelish, 14; Delights of Cookery— Theory of the Kitchen, 16; Details of the Kitchen, 16; Gas Cookery —Preservation of Food, 17; Creosote and Charcoal, 18. The Aet of Dining: 18 — 24 Ai'istology, 18; Serving the Table, 19; Mr. Walker on the Art, 20; Takine Wine—Maxims for a Dinner, 21; Careme, 22; Expensive Parties, 23. Management of the Table : 24 — 26 Circular Tables, Tables Volantes, and the Plateau, 24; Lighting Eooms—“ Thirteen to Dinner,” 25. Caeving : 26 — 29 Honours of the Table, 26; Serving Soup—Meats, 27; Poultry and Game—Accidents, 28, 29. Soups : 29 — 34 French and English Soups—Liebig’s Brown Gravy, 29; Spring Soups, 30; Serving Soups—Turtle, 31; Dressing Turtle, 32; Edible Frogs and Snails—A Snail Dinner, 33. Fish : 34 — 57 Digestibility—Consumption in London, 34; Freshness of Fish, 35; Seasons, 36; Serving Salmon, 37; Turbot, 39; Cod-fish, 40; Soles, Haddock, Whiting, Ling and Bream, 41,42; Mullet, 42; The Dory— Lampreys, 43; Whitebait and Shad, 45; Eels and Tench, 47: Trout, 47, 48; Smelts and Gudgeons, 48; Flounders and Barbel, 49; Her- rings, 49; Pike, 49; Carp, Perch, and Gurnard, 60; Mackcrc*.—Stm--VIU Contents. Fish {continued). Oysters, 63; Oysters in New York, 64; Lobsters, 66; Crabs, Mussels, Scallops, and Cockles, 66; Water-Soucby, Sardines, Anchovies, and Pilchards, 67. Meats ; 58 — 64 Preparing and Salting—Venison, 58; Sirloin and Bound of Beef, 69; Ste^s and Chops, 60; Veal—Mutton, 61; Pork—Hams, 62; Dressing Hams—Bacon and Larding, 63; Sausage-meats, 64. Satouey Pies : 65 — 66 Eaised Pies—^Patties—Patfe de Foie Gras, 66; Christmas Game Pie, 66. POULTEY AND GaME : .... 66 — 78 The Turkey, 66; The Bustard, 67; The Bittern and Sea-gull, 68; Fowls, Geese, and Swans, 69; The Canvas-back Duck, 70; Black Game, Grouse, Pheasants, Partridges, and Pochard, 71; Peacock, Guinea-fowl, Quails, Eedbreasts, Larks, Buffs and Beeves, 72; Orto- lans, 72, 73; The MTieatear, Pigeon, and Heron, 74; Hare and Bab- bit, 74; Keeping Poultry and Game, 76; Edible Birds’ Nests— South of France luxuries—Eggs, 76; Soyer’s “Hundred Guinea Dish,” 77; Memoir of the late AJexis Soyer {note), TI, 78. Sauces and Geavies ; 79 — 83 A Good Sauce—Dutch, Piquante, and Poor Man’s—Ham Extract, Olives, and Truffles, 79; Eussian Sauce, Bread Sauce, Lobster Sauce, and Melted Butter, Essence of Anchovies, Ketchup and Soy, 80; Cavice and Capers—Chatna and Currie, 81; The Burdwan, Cayenne, and other Peppers, 82; Pickles and Mustard, 83. Vegetables: 84 — 92 Nutriment and Dressing—Potatoes, 84; Cabbage and Marrow, 85; Kale, Chou-croute, and Haricot—Turnips, 86; Peas and Spinach, 87; Beet-root, Celeriac, and Tomata—Laver, 88; The Onion—Horse- radish, mistakes about, 89; Mushrooms and Truffles, 90; Herbs— Covent Garden Market—^Vegetables and Fruit Act, 91, 92; Water- cresses for London, 92. Salads : 92 — 94 Digestibility, 92; Sydney Smith’s Dressing—Cucumbers and Chicory, 93; Salad Vinegar, 94. Sweet Dishes 94 — 97 Pastry—Plum-pudding, 94; Plum-broth—Jellies, Jams, and Pre- serves—Ehubarb, 95; Bottled Fruits, Marmalade, and Maids of Honour—Flavouring, 96; Ices, 97. Beead 97 — 98 New and Stale—Brown, 97; Various Bread, Biscuit, and Macaroni, 98. Cheese and Buttee 99 — 100 Herbs in Cheese, Potato and Cream Cheese, 99; Stilton, Parmesan, and Schabzieger Chgesc—Butter, 99; Epping and Cambridge Butter, 99; Dutch Butter and Cheese, 100.Contents. IX Malt Liquors; 100 The Dessert ; 103 — 109 Fruits in Britain—Forced and Natural, 103 j Pines and Melons, 104; Water Melon and Grapes—Strawberries and Easpberries, 105; Cherries, Gooseberries, Currants, Plums, Peaches, &c., 106; Apples and Pears.—Filberts, 107; Walnuts and Chestnuts—Figs and Dates, The Orange, 108; Shaddock—Olives, 109. Wines: 110 — 128 Strength of Wines.—Young Wine, 110; Old Wine, Bouquet, and Crust, 111; Growths and Measures—Serving, 112; Champagnes, 115 ; M. Moet and Madame Clicquot, 114; Clarets, 114; Burgundy, 115; Sauterne, and Vin de Bar, 116; German Wines—Ehine, Hock, and Steinberg, 117; The Heidelberg Tun.—Vermuth, Tokay, and Vin de Chypre, 118; Constantia—Port Wines, 119, 120, 121; Sher- ries, 121,122; Madeira, 122; American Wines: Catawba and Isa- bella, 123; British Wines, 123; Eaisin, Grape, Gooseberry, Elder, and Parsnep, 124; Wine and Decanting: The Patent Elutriator, 123-126; Icing Wines; Artificial Ice, 127, 128; Best Wine-glasses —To mull Wine, 128. The Art of Drinking Wine : 129 — 131 Spirits, &c. : . 131 — 134 Strength, 131; Brandy, Eum, and Shrub—American Cyder-brandv. —Whisky, 132. Making Punch : 135 — 136 Mixed, Whisky, Summer GLq, and Eegent’s Pimch, 136; Oxford Punch, Toddy, and Negus, 136. Liqueurs : 137 — 138 Chartreuse Liqueurs—Parfait-amom’, and Cura9oa, 137; Walnut Liqueui’,Eatafia, and Eirschenwasser; Eemedies for Intoxication, 138 Soda Water and Summer Drinks : . . . . 139 — 142 Hock and Soda Water—Seltzer Water, 139; Cofiee and Green Tea —Mint Julep and Sherry Cobbler, 140; Stone Wall, Gin Sling, and Mississippi Punch—We^am Lake Ice, 141; Artificial Ice, 142. Smoking : 142 — 144 Old and Young England Pipes—The Best Cigars, 142; The Hookah and Meerschaum.—Snuff-taking, 143, 144. Making Coffee : 148 149 Coffee and its Properties, 144; Mocha and Tm-key—Eoasting Coffee —Coffee in France, 146; To Make Coffee as in France, 146; Chicorv 147; Various Modes, 147. Tea-3iaking: 148 149 Tea in various Countries, 148; Properties of, 148, 149.Contents. X Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper : . . . 149 — 151 National Dinners : 152 — 158 Eomnn Cookery—Frcncli Cooks—Gorman table d’hote, 162; Wei- mar and Nassau, Vienna and Hungary, 153; Eussian, Turkish, and Persian, 164; Chinese, 155; East Indies—Sandwich Islands, 156; Monastery Kitchen at Alcoba9a—A Spendthrift Club—Eichmond Dinner, in 1600, 157; Lord Mayor’s Banquet in Guildhall, 168. Anecdotes of Clubs: 158 — 163 The Eoxburghe Club Dinners, 168, 169, 160; London Clubs aud Betting, 161; Duke of Wellington and Economy of Clubs — tho Beef Steak Society, 162; Croeki'ord, and his Club; and James Smith at the Union, 163. Table Anecdotes : 164 — 184 Eousseau — Lawyers in Company — a Veal Dinner, 164; The Duke of Bridgewater — the Eichmond Hoax — Dining with the Hat on. 165; Drinking Parties and Characteristics, 166; The Loving Cup, Paralysis and Port Wine, Cape Madeira, Half-and-Half, 167; Ad- dison and Sheridan at Holland House—Frederick William I. and Peter the Great, Invitation blunder, 168; Foote, Fontenelle and Asparagus, Alderman Faulkner aud the Strawberry, Lord Lyttleton, 169; Mr. Pitt’s Hospitality, Sheridan, and Ozias Linley, 170; Can- ning, Dr. Parr, and George III., 171; Queen Charlotte, FCte at Canton House, George IV., William IV., Queen ATctoria, Napoleon I., Eoyal Plate at Windsor, (note,) 172; Silence and Wisdom, Sir H. Davy, “Poor-man-of-mutton,” “Eight to a crack,” 173; Cur- ran’s gratitude, 174; Sir Walter Scott and his Daughter, Ca;sar and Cleopatra, Sir T. Lawence’s Sitters, Von Eaumer on London Society, Moore’s bon mot, 175; Gasconade, Glass broken by Sound, Antiquity of Tooth-picks, Origin of “Punch,” 176; Talleyrand’s Table-nut, 177; Ude’s Patd d’Amande and Pat5d’Amour, 177; Cole- ridge, Sir James Mackintosh, Lord Peterborough, Cambaeferes, 178; A gentleman’s proper income—Dr. Johnson, Garrick, and Boswell, 179; Lord Erskino—Announcing Names, Travelling Fruit-garden, Charles II. at Guildhall, 180 ; Hard-drinking, Hob-nob, the peach, citron, and blackberry, 181; Origin of bottled Ale—Pleasures of the Table, Howto preside at a party, 182; Conducting Entertain- ments—visits, 183 ; the true fine Gentleman and Gentlewoman, 183, 184. >HINTS FOR THE TABLE. Huge volumes, like tlie ox roasted at Bartholomew Fair, may proclaim plenty of labour and invention, but aflbrd less of what is delicate, savoury, and well concocted, than smaller pieces.—F. Osbokn. Dietetics. Proyidexce has gifted man with reason: to his reason, there- fore, is left the choice of his food and drink, and not to instinct, as among the lower animals : it thus becomes his duty to apply his reason to the regulation of his diet; to shun excess in quan- tity, and what is noxious in quality ; to adhere, in short, to the simple and the natural; among which the bounty of his Maker has afforded him an ample selection; and be3'ond which, if he deviates, sooner or later he will suffer the penalty.—Frout. Health obviously depends in a great measure on the number, quality, and quantitj% of our meals; and the grand point for dyspeptic persons, is to avoid hurry, agitation, anxiety, and dis- traction of every sort whilst the digestive organs are at work. In confirmation of this, the following anecdote is related:—During the time M. de Suffrein was commanding for the French in the East, he was one diiy waited on by a deputation of natives, who requested an audience just as he was sitting down to dinner. He quietly heard out the message, and as quietl}^ desired the messenger to inform the deputation, that it was a precept of tlie Christian religion, from which no earthly consideration would induce him to depart, never to attend to any business of an}' kind at dinner-time. The deputation went away lost in admiration at the piety of the commandant.— Quarterly Fevievj. According to habit, a certain sum of stimulus is requisite to keep up the necessary excitement; and this sum cannot be im- mediately withdrawn in weak subjects without some risk: in health, perhaps, the experiment may be safely made at all times, and under any circumstances, although it might be wiser to operate the change by degrees; and it must, moreover, be rofol- BHints for the Talle. lected, that an habitual drunkard is in a morbid condition, and must be treated accordingly. It is probable that a regular mode of living is the most likely to prolong our years, whatever may be that regularity in a com- parative point of view. A sober man, who commits occasional •excesses, is more likely to suffer than another man who gets •drunk every night, provided that these excesses do not differ in regard to the quantit}' or quality of stimulus. In these melan- •choly instances, the excitement is constant, and the indirect <lebility which it may produce, has scarcely time to break down the system, ere it is again wound up to its usual pitch, to use the vulgar expression, “ by a hair of the same hound.” The prin- “cipal attribute of life that renovates, for awhile, its moral and its phj’sical exhaustion is excitability; and a constant excitement is, therefore, indispensable to serve as a fuel to the consuming •fire.—Dr. Millingen. DIGESTION.—AETIEICIAL GASTEIC JUICE. How much gastric juice do you suppo.se there is made and poured into the stomach in twenty-four hours in an ordinary -man ? There are 16 pints. There are used in the same time, of mouth saliva, 3 pints; of bile, 3 pints; of pancreatic saliva, ^ pint; of intestinal juice, ^ pint; in all 23 pints of fluid are poured out into the digestive canal in about 24 liours. About one-sixth part ■of an ordinary sized man! What becomes of it P Why, it goes ill again. During digestion it is constantly being poured out thin, and taken in thicker. It is outward bound—empty; home- ■ward bound—laden with cargo. It leaves home poor, it returns rich. By its chemical qualities it digests the food which it meets; and by its mere quantity it washes it into the blood-vessels. Is then the bile all re-absorbed ? Not all, but 15 parts out of 16 are, and furnish a fuel to the blood, very easily burned, to assist in maintaining animal heat.—Dr. Radclyffe Mall. Dr. Corvisart, a Parisian physician, has introduced a medicine •capable of performing the functions of the digestive organs—in short, an Artificial Gastric Juice, which is a combination of Mepsin, (literall}', the cooking principle), with an acid, probably lactic. It has been proved that the principal element in the Kligestive process is pepsin, which, if slightl}' acidulated, (as with the lactic acid,) will dissolve coagulated albumen. Hence, in ■cases of impaired digestive powers, if pepsin can be introduced,^ •even in very small quantities, into the stomach, at the time of taking food, the operations of nature will be wonderfully facili- tated. M. Boudalt has succeeded in preparing pepsin from the Tennet-bags, (the fourth stomachs of the ruminants,) used iuArtificial Bigedion hy Pepshi. 3 making cheese : it is a syrupy solution, which being mixed with stiU’ch and dried, forms a greyish powder, and is either used by itself, or mixed with re-ageuts which do not affect its digestive properties. Thus prepared, pepsin can be taken either in water, or between slices of bread; and according to Dr. Ballard, who has introduced it into London practice, it is capable of represent- ing and replacing the normal gastric juice of the human body ; and it not only acts per se on the food, but restores the lost activity of the secretive organs.* DIGESTION OF VARIOUS FOOD. The time required to digest various kinds of food has been duly observed. St. Martin, the man who has an opening into his stomach, produced by^ a gun-shot wound, is in New York, and a number of physicians of that city, experimenting with a view to ascertain the time requisite for the digestion of food, have found that a thermometer introduced into his stomach, rises to 101° Eahrenheit. The carrot is consumed in five hours. Roast beef, underdone, will digest in an hour and a half. Melted butter will not digest at all, but float about in the stomach. Lobster is comparatively easy of digestion. Upon the application of the gastric juice to a piece of purple tissue paper, the colour at once fades. The patient, Martin’s, health has been uniformly excellent; and since his recovery from the. first effects of the wound, he has supported a large family by his daily labour. VHAT AN EPICURE EATS AND DRINKS IN HIS LIFE-TIME. It will rather take the reader by surprise to be told, that in a life of 65 years’ duration, with a moderate daily allowance of mutton, for instance, he will have consumed a flock of 350 sheep; and that altogether, for dinner alone, adding to his mutton a reasonable allowance of potatoes and vegetables, with a pint of wine daily for 30 years of this period, above 30 tons of solids and liquids must have passed through Ins’ stomach. Soyer, in his popular work, the Modern ILou,se%oife, says:— Take seventy years of the life of an epicure, beyond which age many * Among the eases recorded by Dr. Ballard is that of a lady, sixty-sis years of age, who for four years had suH'ered pain, which “ she had no words to describe,” for three or four liours after every meal. The natural consequences were excessive prostration and complete disgust for food; and she had for many weeks limited herself to four ru^s and a little milk and beef-tea per diem. The first day pepsin was used she ate and enjoyed a mutton-chop; in a few days she ate freely, and gradually irnproved, and at length was able to give up the pepsin entirely, to eat without pain, and walk some miles without fatigue.—Dr. Ballard, on Artificial Digestion, p. 30.Uinls for the Table. 4 of that class of hon vivants arrive, and even above eiglity, still in the full enjoyment of degustation, &c. (for example, Talleyrand, Cambaeferes, Lord Sefton, &c,); it tho first of the said epicures, when entering on tlie tenth spring of his extraordinary earecr, lind been placed on an eminence —say the top of Primrose Hill—and had had exhibited before his infantine eyes tho enormous quantity of food his then insignificant person would destroy before he attained his seventy-first year—first, he would believe it must be a delusion; then, secondly, he would inquire where tho money could come from to purchase so much luxurious extravagance ? Imagine, on the top of the above-mentioned hill, a rushlight of a hoy just entering his tenth year, surrounded with the richerche provision and delicacies claimed by his rank and wealth, taking merely the consumption of his daily meals. By closely calculating, he would be surrounded and gazed at by tho following number of quadrupeds, birds, fishes, &c.:—By no loss than 30 oxen, 200 sheep, 100 calves, 200 lambs, 60 pigs; in poultry, 1200 fowls, 300 turkeys, 150 geese, 400 ducklings, 263 pigeons, 1400 partridges, pheasants, and grouse; 600 woodcocks and snipes; 600 wild ducks, widgeon, and teal; 450 plovers, ruffes, and reeves; 800 quails, ortolans, and dotterels, and a few guillemots, and other foreign birds; also, 600 hares and rabbits, 40 deer, 120 guinea fowl, 10 peacocks, and 360 wild fowl. In the w'ay of fish, 120 turbot, 140 salmon, 120 cod, 260 trout, 400 mackerel, 300 whitings, 800 soles and slips, and 400 flounders; 400 red mullet, 200 cels, 150 haddocks, 400 herrings, 5000 smelts, and some 100,000 of those delicious silvery whitebait, besides a few hundred species of fresh-water fishes. In shell-fish, 20 turtles, 30,000 oysters, 1600 lobsters or crabs, 300,000 prawns, shrimps, sardines, and anchovies. In the way of fruit, about 600 lb. of grapes, 3(50 lb. of pine-apples, 600 peaches, 1400 apricots, 240 melons, and some hundred thousand plums, greengages, apples, jjears, and some millions of cherries, strawberries, raspberries, currants, mulberries, and an abundance of other small fruit, viz., walnuts, chestnuts, dry figs, and plums. In vegetables of all kinds, 6475 pounds weight; about 2434j pounds of butter, 684 poimds of cheese, 21,000 eggs, 800 ditto of plovers. Of bread, tons, half a ton of salt and pepper, near 2|^ tons of sugar; and if he had happened to be a biba- cious boy, he could have formed a fortification or moat round the said hill ndth the liquids he would have to partake of to facilitate the digestion of the above-named provisions, which would amount to no less than 'll,673j gallons, which may be taken as below:—49 hogshearls of wine, 136Sj- gallons of beer, 584 gallons of spirits, 342 ditto of liqueur, 2394 ditto of coffee, cocoa, tea,. &c., 304 gallons of milk, 2736 gallons of water—all of which would actually protect him and his anticiuated pro- perty from any young thief or feUow-schoolboy. This calculation has for its basis the medium scale of the regular meals of the day, \yhieh, in sixty years, amounts to no less than 33j tons weight of meat, farinaceous food [ind vegetables, &c.; out of w'hich the above are in detail the pro- bable delicacies that would be selected by an epicure through life. Liebig’s theoet of e'uteitiox. “ Among all the arts known to man,” sai’s Liebig, “ there is none which enjoys a juster appreciation, and the products of ■which are more universally admired, than that which is con- cerned in the preparation of our food. Led bj' an instinct, which has almost reached the dignity of conscious knowledge, as the5 So^er a la Liehig. uiien'ing guidB, and by tli6 sense of taste which protects tho iiealth, ^110 experienced cook, with respect to the choice, the admixture, and the preparation of food, has made acquisitions surpassing all that chemical and physiological science have done in regard to the doctrine or theory of nutrition. “In soup and meat sauces he imitates the gastric juices, and by the cheese, which closes the banquet, he assists the action of the dissolved epithelium (fine inner lining), which, with the swallowed saliva, forms rennet of the stomach. The table sup- plied with dishes appears to the observer like a machine, the parts of which are harmoniously fitted together, and so arranged, that when brought into action, a maximum of effect may be obtained by means of them. The able culinary artist accom- panies the blood, making articles with those which promote the process of solution and re-solution into blood in due proportion; he avoids all kinds of unnecessary stimuli, such as do not act in re- storing the equilibrium; and he provides the due nourishment for the child as well as the old man, as well as for both sexes.” Here is Soyer discussing a la Liebig:—“ From infancy to old age the human race must be coutinuall}^ imbibing elements of formation or reparation, even from the lime in the mother’s milk, which forms the bones, to the osmazome extracted fi’om animal matters, which creates a more lively circulation of the blood when it becomes sluggish and dull in old age. Each period, occupation, and station in life requii'es different substances of reparation, with which we ought to make ourselves intimately acquainted. Amongst the first, and that most generally in use with man, is the ox, the principal nourishment of which consists in the osma- zome, which is that liquid part of the meat that is extracted by water at blood-heat. It is this which is the foundation and flavour of all soups, which gives the flavour to all meats, and which, on becoming candied by heat, forms the crust of roast meats. The osmazome is found principally in all adult animals having a dark flesh, and to a very small extent in those having a white flesh; or even in the white flesh of fowls, but in their bucks and legs, in which parts lies their principal flavour. The bones of the ox contain gelatine and phosphate of lime. The gelatine is also found in the muscles and other cartilaginous parts of the animal: it is extracted by boiling water, and coagu- lates at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere; it is the foundation of all jellies, hlanc manges, and other similar prepara- tions. The albumen is also found in the flesh, and congeals as soon as the heat rises beyond that of the blood; it is this which is the scum on the pot when the meat is boiling.”Hints for the Table. 0 NOUEISnilENT IN FOOD. Dr. Prout has clearly proved, that our principal alimentary matters may be reduced to three classes, of which suf'ar, butter, and white of e^g are the representatives. Now, milk, the only article absolutely prepared and intended by nature as an aliment, is a compound of all the three classes; and almost all the grani- vorous and herbaceous matters employed as Ibod by the lower animals, contain at least two, if not all the three. The same is true of animal aliments, which consist, at least, of albumen and oil. In short, it is perhaps impossible to name a substance emplo3’-ed by the more perfect animals as food, that does not essentially constitute a natural compound of at least two, if not three, of these great principles of alimentary matter. Every one who has reached the middle of life, must have had occasion to observe, how much his comfort and his powers of exertion depend upon the state of his stomach, and will have lost some of his original indifference to rules of diet.—Mayo. The stomach exercises a great influence over our daily happiness, Mrs. Hannah More says in her quaint way: “ There are only two bad things in this world—sin and bile.” When in a perfectly healthy condition, everything goes on well; on the contrary, our doctors tell us that the horrors of hypochondriasis are mainly owing to dyspepsia or indigestion. EDUCATION OF THE STOMACH. Dr. Granville considers that the whole secret of eating and drinking depends on the manner in which a stomach has been educated,. “ Each,” the doctor tells us, “ has had its physical education as peculiarly different from the rest, as that which the professor has received in the nursery or at college, and each must he dealt with accordingly.” A mixture of animal and vegetable food, aided by cooking and by condiments, may be said to be essential to our well-being and to our social existence; for, all attempts which have been made materially to simplify our diet, have not been attended by an}' flattering results, nor have either philosophers or economists suc- ceeded in persuading mankind, either by example or precept, that raw vegetables and water are conducive to health and longevity; so that man must still submit to the distinctive definition ot being a cooking animal. DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD.—THEORY OF COOKERY. Venison is the most digestible animal food: its age makes it fibrinous; its texture is naturally not so close-grained as that ot7 Arf of Coolcry. beef and mutton, and the period during which it is hung, gives- it additional tenderness. Next to venison, probably, follow grouse, at least in weather which allows the bird to be kept suffi- ciently long. All game has relatively this looseness of texture: so a pheasant or partridge is more digestible than a turke}^ or barn-door fowl. These facts, which Dr. Beaumont ascertained,, are at vaidance with opinions which, for a long time, held their ground. But, Dr. Herbert Mayo, the celebrated physiologist, is fully satisfied of their correctness by observations that he has- made on the powers of weak stomachs. Meats contain the most nutriment, milk and eggs the next,, the best farinaceous food the next, fish the next, vegetables least. Dr. Herbert Mayo, in his admirable work. The Philosophy of~ Living, gives the following synoptical view of Cookery; by which “ meat is rendered shorter, or its texture more separable- than when raw; when the process is wholesomest, the oil is in. part extracted. The wholesomest cookery is Broiling; in which the portion of meat is of no great thickness, and its fibre is cut across. The action of heat upon the divided fibre and the con- necting tissue, renders the texture more penetrable, and from the cut surface the melted fat easily exudes. Roasting is next to broiling; not so wholesome, because the contraction of the sur- face compresses and hardens the interior of the meat, and the oil has a less free escape. Baking is inferior to roasting, as tho want of motion and the closeness of the oven contribute to de- tain the oil. Frying is unwholesome, inasmuch as it adds oil» and that partly in its worst state, the empyreumatic. Boiling has the advantage of extracting the oil from the meat, but it gives hardness, by coagulating the albumen. By the process of Stewing this evil is avoided; but, on the other hand, much that is nutritious is parted with in exchange for the mechanical in- crease of digestibility. Fish, in order to be preserved fresh for the market, are allowed to linger and die, instead of being put to death in health, as- every living thing intended for food ought to be: this circum- stance alters its properties as food; and, probably, is one cause- why, with some people, fish is said to disagree, by exciting dis- turbance in the alimentary canal. Fish, in proportion to its bulk, may be said to be almost all muscle; and it is readily known to be in perfection by the layer of cm-dy matter interposed within its flakes. It often happens,, however, that those parts of fish, viz., the pulpy, gelatinous, or glutinous, which are considered the most delicious, are the most indigestible. Concentrated nutritive matter is not so digestible as when it8 Hints for the Table. is mixed up with that wliich is less so, or which is even not at all so. It is for this reason that rich dishes disaj^ree with healthy persons; a larger portion of nutritive matter being thrown into the stomach than it can readily convert into chyle, and the functions are, in consequence, deranged. The egg is richer in fat than fat beef, and is equalled in this respect only by pork and by eels. The white of the egg is entirely free from I’at; but albumen is so constipating that it re- quires much fat to be eaten with it to counteract this quality. It is, no doubt, because experience has long ago proved this in the stomachs of the people, that “eggs and bacon” have been a popular dish among Gentile nations from time immemorial. HOUES OF MEALS. Lord Byron says:— Man ia a carnivorous production. And must have meals at least once a day: He cannot live like woodcocks upon suction. But like the shark and tiger must have prey. Allow him two meals—a good breakfast and a good dinner j but a hot luncheon is a most destructive meal; and half the young men who lose their health or their lives in the East Indies, are destroyed by the excitement of hot luncheons, fol- lowed by still hotter dinners.—Nimrod. The true art in the economy of refection is to partake at one meal only of as much as will leave the eater free to do honour to the next. The luncheon should not be allowed to supersede the dinner, nor should the appetite be reserved solely I'or the prin- cipal repast.— Ude. An adult in full health requires two substantial meals daih*, and often without prejudice partakes of two additional slight repasts in the twenty-four hours. Women, more delicately organized, eat sparingly, and require three meals in the daj'. The hour of dinner should be neither too late nor too early; if too late, the system will have been exhausted for want of it, will be weakened, and the digestion enfeebled; if too early, the stomach will crave another substantial meal, which, taken late in the evening, will not be digested before the hours of sleep. A person who breakfasts at nine, should not dine later than six.— Herbert Mayo. The enjoyment of dinner will be materially interrupted by any strong mental excitement, which will temporarily exhaust the digestive powers. Hence conversation at the dinner-table should be of the lightest and least exciting kind. Dr. Beaumont made9 DrinJcing at Meals. the singular remark that anger causes bile to flow into the stomach; hence the indigestion ot the choleric man. A black frost gives a glorious appetite. Corned beef and greens send up in their steam 3’our soul to heaven. The music of knives and forks is like that of “ flutes and soft recorders, “ breathing deliberate valourand think, oh think! how the imagination is roused by the power of contrast between the gor- cock lying with his buttered breast on the braid of his back upon a bed of toasted bread, and wburring away in vain down the wind before the death shock.—“ Nodes” of BlacJctooocl. DRINKING AT MEALS. When fat meats, or sauces composed partly of butter, are taken, and cold drink directly after, the butter and fat are I’en- dered concrete, and separated from the rest of the aliment. This congealed oily matter being then specifically lighter than the remaining contents of the stomach, swims on the top of the food, often causing heavy, uneasy, and painful sensations about the cardia and breast, and sometimes a feeling of scalding and anxiety; at other times, when the stomach regains its heat, this fatty matter is rejected, by little and little, from weak stomachs, in oily regurgitations, which areveiy dhagreeable. In such cases a little compound spirits of hartshorn, with a glass of warm water and sugar, will convert the fat into a soap, and give instant relief.—Sir James Mitr'ray's Medical JEssays. Weak alcoholic drinks gently stimulate the digestive organs, and help them to do their work more fully and faithfully; and thus the body is sustained to a later period in life. Hence poets have called Wine “ the milk of the old,” and scientific philosophy owns the propriety of the term. If it does not nourish the old so directly as milk nourishes the young, yet it certainly does aid in support- ing and filling up their failing frames. And it is one of the happy consequences of a temperate youth and manhood, that this spirituous milk does not fail in its good eflects when the weight of years begins to press upon us.—Johnston’s Chemistry of Cotmnon Life. Dr. Mayo observes, that nothing produces thirst so much as quenching it, or grows more readily into habit than drinking. Much liquid weakens the stomach, and produces flatulence and hit. WATER-DRINKING. It by no means follows in all cases, perhaps not even in the majority, that the purest water is the best for tbe health of a given family, or for the population of a given district. The10 Hints for the Table. Lright.spavlding hard waters which gush out in frequent springs from our chalk or other limestone rocks, are relished to drink, not merely because they are grateful to the eye, but because there is something exhilarating in the excess of carbonic acid which they contain and give off as they pass through the warm mouth and throat; and because the lime they hold in solution removes acid matters from the stomach, and thus acts as a grateful medicine to the system. To abandon the use of such a water, and to drink daily in its stead one entirely free I'rom mineral matter, so far from improving, may generally injure, the individual or local health.—Chemistry of Common Life. We find these very sensible remarks on the efiects of Water- drinking, in that clever work. The Doctor:— I am decidedly opposed to the indiscriminate drinking of large quanti- ties of cold water. One cannot understand in what manner these large imhihitions are to operate so as to be useful in the animal economy. AVe know precisely what becomes of the water soon after entering the stomach; wo can trace exactly what course all this water must take—what channels it must traverse—between its entrance and its exit. We are perfectly well acquainted with certain physiological effects produced by it after it has been received into the system. It dilutes the blood, it lowers the temperature, and, therefore, diminishes the vital power of the stomach ; it puts certain systems of capillary blood-vessels on the stretch, to the great danger of bursting, and it over-taxes the kidneys. I have seen two very had cases which were fairly attributable to the excessive chinking of water. Thus, then, it seems there are certain well-understood and very obvious injmies which the large imbibition of water caimot fail to inflict, while the supposed benefits to accrue from it are altogether mj'stical, problematical, unintelligible. The quantity of water which each person should ch’ink dm'ing the day must always depend on his own feelings. He may always drink when the doing so is agreeable to his sensations; when it is repulsive, never. EEMEDIES FOE INDIGESTION. There is a great difference between bitters and tonics. Where weakness proceeds from an excess of irritability, there bitters act beneficially; because aU bitters are poisons, and operate by stilling, and depressing, and lethargizing the irritability.. But, where weakness proceeds from the opposite cause of relaxation, there tonics ai’e good; because they brace up and tighten the loosened string. Bracing is a correct metaphor. Bark goes near to be a combination of a bitter and a tonic; but no per- fect medical combination of the two properties is yet known. —Coleridge. The acidity of the stomach, and other symptoms of indiges- tion which follow occasional indulgence in wine, may, to a great extent, be prevented by a dose of magnesia at bed-time.11 Sjjortsmeu’s Living. which saturates the acid in the stomach, and allays the febrile action. Carbonate of Soda also neutralizes acid in the stomach and Liquorice is stated to have the same salutary efl'ect. John Hunter used to say that most people lived above par, which rendered the generality of diseases and accidents the more difficult of cure. Baron Maseres who lived to be near ninet}',. and who never employed a physician, used to go one day in every week without dinner, eating only a round of dry toast at tea. spoetmen’s living. Sir Humphry Davy in his Salmonia, is understood to record the following, as the opinion of Dr. Babington, on the erroneous idea, that high living is requisite to sustain us against tho fatigues of sporting. “ A half-pint of wine for young men in perfect health is enough, and you will be able to take your exercise better, and feel better for this abstinence. How few people calculate upon the effects of constantly renewed fever in our luxurious system of living in England! The heart is made to act too powerl'ully, the blood is thrown upon the nobler parts, and with the system of wading, adopted by some sportsmen,, whether in shooting or fishing, is delivered either to the hemor- rhoidal veins, or what is worse, to the head. I have known several free livers who have terminated their lives by apoplexy, or have been rendered miserable by palsy, in consequence of the joint effects of cold feet and too stimulating a diet; that is to say, as much animal food as they could eat, with a pint or per- haps a bottle of wine per day. Be guided by me, my friends,, and neither drink nor wade. I know there are old men who have done both and have enjoyed perfect health; but they are devil’s decoys to the unwary, and ten suffer for one that escapes.” EXERCISE AND MEALS. Exercise should neither be taken immediately before, nor im- mediately after a full meal. Mr. Abernethy’s prescription is—to rise early and to use active exercise in the open air, till slight fatigue be felt, then to rest one hoim and breakfast. After this rest three hours, in order that the energies of the constitution may be concentrated in the work of digestion; “ then take active exercise again for two hours, rest one, and dine. After dinner rest for three hours; and afterwards, in summer, take a gentle stroll, which, with an hour’s rest before supper, will constitute the plan of exercise for the day. In wet weather, the exercise may be taken in the house, by walking actively backwards and forwards, as sailors do on shipboard.”Jlints for the Tahle. 12 nOlIE PKOVEUBS. Here is a string of Home Proverbs worth observance. A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day. Old young and old long. They who would be young when they are old, must be old when they are young. . Good kale is half a meal. liutter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night. ]de that would live for age, must eat sage in May. After cheese comes nothing. You must drink as much after an egg as after an ox. He that goes to bed thirsty rises healthy. Ol'ten and little eating makes a man fat. Fish must swim thrice. Drink wine and have the gout, drink no wine and have it too. Young men’s knocks, old men feel. Eat at pleasure, drink by measure. Cheese is a peevish elf. It digests all but itself. Drink in the morning staling. Then all the day be sparing. Eat a bit before you drink. Feed sparingly and dupe the physician. Better be meals many than one too many. Fish spoils water, but flesh mends it. Apples, pears, and nuts spoil the voice. Old fish, old oil, and an old friend. Eaw pullet, veal, and fish make the chiu’chyard fat. Of wine the middle, of oil the top, of honey the bottom. If you take away tbe salt, throw the meat to the dogs. Qwi a hu hoira.—Ever drunk ever diy. Bitter to the mouth, sweet to the heart. Dr. Hunter says: “ Instead of drinking three glasses of wine after dinner, drink only two; and if you want more, drink a glass of ale. The saving will bring wine back to its old price.” Rise from table with an appetite, and you will not be in danger ■of sitting down without one. It is a mistaken notion that good cookery is expensive; on the contrary, it is the cheapest. By good cookery, we make the most of everything; by bad cookery, the least.13 GourmamUse. Art of Cookery. Dugald Steavaet was struck by the analogy between cookery, poetiy, and the fine arts, as appears from the following passage: “■ Agreeably to this view of the subject, siueet may be said to be intrinsically pleasing, and bitter to be relatively pleasing; both which are in many cases equally essential to those efi’ects, which, in the art of cookery correspond to that composite beauty which it is the object of the painter and the poet to create.” The Duke of York called the Almanack des Gourmands the most delightful book that ever issued from the press. Before it appeared, a man of fashion would have blushed to be heard speaking of cookery. “ Cookeiy, so far from possessing any deleterious tendency, is, on the contrary, highly conducive to the preservation of health, inasmuch as it protects the appetite against the disadvantageous monotony of plain food,” says Ude; yet Dr. Philip, in his Treatise on Indigestion, gives the following pithy opinion on the art of Cookery: “ Beyond a certain degree of roasting and boiling, the art of cookery is nothing but that of pleasing the palate at the expense of the stomach.” The French term gourmandise applies to the most refined epicurism, as distinguished from gluttony. It has its name in French alone; it can be designated neither by the Latin gulu, the English gluttony, nor the German liistern. Gourmandise, when partaken, has the most marked influence on the happiness of the conjugal state. A wedded pair endowed with this taste, have once a day, at least, an agreeable cause of meeting: a com- mon want summons the pair to the table; the same inclination retains them there; they naturally practise towards one another those little attentions which show a wish to oblige; and the manner in which their meals ai’o conducted enters materially into the happiness of life.—From the French. “ English cookeiy is by no means agreeable, as everybody is obliged to bite and chew twice as much as in France, Italy, and Germany; which is trying enough to young teeth, but utter destruction to older masticators.” Such is the opinion of Von Baumer, whose experience ranged from a banquet at Devonshire House, to a basin of leg-of-beef soup in Drury-lane. Diet should be varied in the same meal; this salutary object may be obtained by a meal of different dishes. It may be desirable to take nourishment, when the appetite, from ivhateverHints for the Tahle. cause, has faded and gone off. In that case, a spoonful of soup, a flake of fish, a slice of cold beef, in succession, will provoke an appetite, and with it digestion, where the nicest mutton cutlet, or the most tempting slice of venison, would have turned the stomach.—Mayo. A notion once generally prevailed that viands cooked in the French fashion were deprived of their nutritive properties in the process. This was uril'ounded; for, according to Dr. Prout, in France most substances are exposed, through the medium of oil ■or butter, to a temperature of at least 600 degrees, by the opera- tion of frying, or some analogous process. They are then intro- duced into a macerating vessel, with a little water, and kept for several hours at a temperature far below the boiling point, not perhaps higher than 180 degrees, and by these united processes, the articles, whether of animal or vegekible origin, are reduced more or less to a state of pulp, and admirably adapted for the farther action of the stomach. Numbers of persons attribute gout to tbe frequent use of dishes dressed in the French fashion. “ Many years’ experience and observation,” says M. Ude, “have proved to me that this disorder has not its origin in good cheer, but in excesses of other kinds. * * A copious and sustained exercise is the surest pre- ventive. It is true the gout more frequently attacks the wealthy than the indigent; hence it has been attributed to their way of living; but this is an error. It is exercise only they need.” We all know how unpalatable fresh meat and vegetables are without salt; but few are aware of the mischief which has arisen fi’om not eating salt at meals. Dr. Paris relates that he once had a gentleman of rank under his care for a deranged state of the digestive organs; from some unexplainable cause, the patient had never eaten any salt with his meals, when the doctor en- forced the necessity of his taking it in moderation, and the recovery of his digestive powers was the consequence. Dr. A. Hunter notes: “ I was once so presumptuous as to suppose that the seasoning in cookery might be weighed out after the manner directed by physicians in their prescriptions; but I soon found that my plan was too mechanical. I have, therefore, abandoned it, and now freely give to the cooks the exercise of their right, in all matters that regard the kitchen.” Dr. King has well observed: The fundamental principle of all Is ■what ingenious cooks the relish call; For when the markets send in loads of food. They all are tasteless till that makes them good.15 Theory of the Kitchen. “ C'est la Soupe," says the proverb, “ quifait le Soldat ^‘Ifc is the Soup that makes the Soldier.” Excellent as our troops are in the field, they are very inferior to the French in cookery. The English soldier lays his piece, or ration, of beef at once on the coals, by which means the one and the better half is lost, and the other burnt to a cinder: whereas, six French troopers fling their messes into the same pot, and extract^ a. delicious soup, ten times more nutritious than the simple roti ever could be. Cookery is the soul of festivity at all times, and to all ages. How many marriages have been the consequence of meeting at dinner! How much good fortune has been the result of a good supper! At what moment of our existence are we happier than when at table! There hatred and animosity are lulled to sleep, and pleasure alone reigns. It is at table that an amiable lady or gentleman shines in sallies of wit, where they display the ease and graceful manner with which they perform “ the honours.” Here their wants are satisfied, their minds and bodies invigorated, and themselves qualified for the high delights of love, music, poetry, dancing, and other pleasures. Many people rail against attributing much importance to the pleasures of the table: but, it is not observable that these moralists are more averse than others to the gratification of the palate when opportunity occm'S. — Tide. The Cooking of Meat is thus scientifically illusti'ated in Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. A well-cooked piece of meat should be full of its own juice or natural gravy. In o'oasting, therefore, it should be exposed to a quick fire, that the external surface may be made to contract at once, and the albumen to coagulate before the juice has had time to escape from within. And so in boiling. When a piece of beef or mutton is plunged into boiling water, the outer part contracts, the albumen whicli is near- the surface coagulates, and the internal juice is prevented either from escaping into the water by which it is surrounded, or from being diluted and weakened by the admission of water among it. When cut up, therefore, the meat yields much gravy, and is rich in flavour. Hence a beef-steak or a mutton-chop is done quickly, and over a quick fire, that the natural juices may be retained. The Theory of the Kitchen appears trifling, but its practice is extensive. Many persons talk of it, yet know nothing of it beyond a mutton-chop or a beef-steak.— Tide. It is remarkable that the first decisive proof of genius given by Careme (the chef of French cookery), was a sauce for Fast dinners. He began his studies by attending a regular course ofHinis for the Table. 16 roasting, under some of the leading roasters of the day. This is a valuable hint for some of the “ proiessed cooks” of our country. Daubing consists in passing bacon through meat j while lard- ing is only on the top and sides, or surface only. Draising is now common in large kitchens; it enriches meats, game, and poultry, which may be kept ten days or a fortnight in the braise. Braising is well managed in France by burying the braising kettle in live wood-ashes. A fricandeau is best pre- pared by putting red-hot embers upon the cover of, as well as beneath, the stewpan. A Bain-marie, or Water-bath, and a Hot-plate, are very useful to cooks for keeping articles warm without altering the quantity or quality. If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fire-side, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces. Broiling and frying are nicer arts than commonly thought. For all articles the gridiron should be allowed to get hot, and be rubbed with fat, or chalked for fish, lest the bars mark the article broiled. Crumbs for frying are best prepared by drying bread before the fire, then pounding it in a mortar, and sifting it. Charcoal makes the best broiling and frying fire. The saute-^m is very useful to fry meat lightly before stewing it. Entries are those dishes which are served in the first course with the fish. Entremets are the second course which comes between the roast meat and the dessert. Entrees and Entremets should never be attempted without means and appliances to boot; for “ better first in a village than second at Rome,” is a maxim peculiarly applicable to cooker}'. The danger from copper cooking vessels is threefold; 1. From their being untinned, and the articles prepared in them affecting the copper. 2. From their contracting the poisonous rust, ver- digris, when put away damp. 3. From soups and stews being left to cool in them. The instance of a party of gentlemen being poisoned at Salt Hill, from neglect of the latter kind, is well known. In 1829, a gentleman was poisoned in Paris by par- taking of soup which had been wanned in a foul copper sauce- pan. And, in 1837, the daughter of the Countess of L. and all her Tamil}', residing in Paris, were poisoned by a stew, which had been allowed to stand and get cold in a copper pan. In our system of cookery, the paucity of standards of tiiste is a great disadvantage. In France, a dish once tiisted is always known again : but in England, such is not the case, for a ragout, fricassee, or curry, will vary in flavour at different tables. This17 CooJchig hj Gas. is mainly owing to the contradictory receipts in dilTerent cookery- books, and the liberties taken with them. Cooking by Gas is now generally adopted in large establish- ments with success. One of the earliest Gas Kitchens is en- graved in Conrad Cooke’s Cookery and Confectionery, published in 1824; it consists of a platform 2ft. Sin. high, the upper part brick, with shelves for saucepans, &c., beneath. It is contrived for stewing, the gas being conveyed in moveable burners, over which are set the stewpans upon trivets. Another mode is as follows ; A large round or oval of burners, or jets of flame, is provided, in the midst of which is fixed a perpendicular spit, to hold the meat to be roasted. Over the flame is placed a cover of sheet iron, at bottom surrounding the jets, and contracted towards the top, so as to bring all the heat of the gas as near as possible to the meat. This cover resembles a large inverted funnel, the pipe of which resembles a chimney, to let out the gas; the heat of which boils a tin vessel placed over it. Soyer was one of the earliest persons to improve Gas Cookery. For the ' Eeform Club kitchen he invented gas stoves, each divided into five com- partments, and each having a separate pipe and brass cock, with a main, to each stove, thus supplying gas to heat the five compartments at once, the llame being regulated by the cocks. Thus, the same heat is obtained as from charcoal, the moment the gas is lit; it is a fire that neverrequii'es making up; creates neither dust nor smell (except the gas bo not properly turned off), and is quite free from smoke. Upon his octagonal trivet, Soyer could place nine stewpans over the gas, some simmering, others boiling, at the same time. In another of his contrivances, the gas ascends from a gridiron perforated pipe through a layer of pumice-stone, on emerg- ing from which it is hghted, ivhen the fiamc keeps the pumice-stone red-hot, and the cooking is as convenient as if done by charcoal. In 1850, Soyer cooked at Exeter, for the Agricultm’al Society’s Dinner, “ a baron with saddle-back of beef a la Magna Charta,” weighing 635 poimds, the joint being the whole length of the bullock—rumps, rounds, loins, libs, and shoulders, to the neck. It w'as roasted in the open air, within a temporary inclosure of brickwork; the monster joint frizzling and steaming away over 216 jets of gas from pipes half an inch in diameter, the whole being covered in with sheet-iron; when, in five hours, the beef was dressed for 6s. Gas Cooking Apparatus is too numerous for us to detail. One of its latest extensive adoptions is ibr cooking the great Guildhall dinner, on Lord Mayor’s Lay, in the kitchen in the crypt beneath the hall. PEESEEVATION OF FOOD. Charcoal, when recently burned, has much efiiciency in pre- venting the offensiveness of animal decay from becoming sensible to the smell. Sprinkled in the state of powder over the parts of dead animals, it preserves them sweet for a length of time. Placed in pieces between the wings of a ibwl, it keeps away c18 Hints for the Table. much louger than usual any appearance of taint; or, if strewed : over substances already tainted, or mixed with liquids which have acquired the unpleasant smell of decaying organic matter, |, it removes the evil odour, and makes them sweet again. It is |i for this reason that pieces of fresh charcoal are now and then introduced into our common water-filters. In all these cases, ' ' charcoal appears to act rather as a smell remover than as a decay ' and smell preventer.—Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. Creosote is used for preserving meat, but gives it a disagreeable H taste and smell. This, Dr. Stenhouso has obviated, by placing I a small plate containing a little creosote immediately under each ^ piece of meat as it hangs in the larder, and covering both with a , cloth. The creosote soon forms an atmosphere around the meat, ! and will keep it three or four days longer than otherwise, and ' the meat will not have, when cooked, the slightest smell or taste of creosote. Or, the joint may be suspended in a wooden box or earthen jar, to be with a lid. Another advantage attending the ■ use of creosote is, that it frees a larder from flies. A room in which meat in an advanced degree of decomposition had been kept some time, has been instantly deprived of all smell, on an open coffee-roaster being carried through it, con- taining a pound of coffee, newly roasted. In another room, exposed to the effluvium occasioned by the clearing out of a dung-pit, so that sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia in great quantity could be chemically diluted, the stench was completely removed within half-a-minute, on the employment of -thi-ee ounces of fresh-roasted coffee; whilst the other parts of the house were permanently cleared of the same smell by being simply traversed with the coffee-roaster, although the cleansing of the dung-pit lasted several hours longer. Even the smell of musk and castoreum, which cannot be overpowered by any other sub- stance, is completetely dispelled by the fumes of coffee: and the same applies to asafoetida. The Art of Dining. According to the lexicons, the Greek word for dinner \%Ariston, and, therefore, for the convenience of the terras, the art of dining ' is called Aristoloyy, and those who study it, Aristologists.— The late Mr. Walker, in the Original. A first-rate dinner in England, is out of all comparison better I than a dinner of the same class in any other country; for we get the best cooks, as we get the best singer.s and dancers, b}' bidding highest for them, and we have cultivated certain national dishes to a point which makes them the envy of theThe Art of Dining. 19 world.—{Quarterly Review.) To support this assertion, wo have the unqualifiecl admission of Ude : “ I will venture to affirm, that cookery in England, when well done, is superior to that in any country in the world.” The class of cookery to which Udo: refers is Anglo-French, or English relieved by French. The golden rule for the art of giving dinners is—let all men’s- dinners be according to their means. In order to have a table regularly served, two points are im- portant ; one of which belongs to the cook, and the other to the housekeeper. The duty of tire cook is to dress the dinner well, and to dish it up elegantly. The housekeeper’s duty, among other things, is to make out the bill of fare, and to direct the dishes to be so placed upon the table as to accord with each other, thereby forming a picture that, by pleasing the eye, may whet the appetite; and here a quick eye, to measure distances, and a correct distributive taste, are requisite. Dr. King, in his Art of Cookery, addressed to Dr. Martin Luster, thus humorously touches upon the subject:— Ingenious Lister, were a picture drawn With Cynthia’s face, but with a neck of brawn; "With wings of turkey, and with feet of calf. Though drawn by Kncller, it would make you laugh. Such IS (good sh) the figure of a feast. By some rich farmer’s wife and sister drest: "WTiich, were it not for plenty and for steam. Might be resembled to a sick man’s dream,— "Where all ideas huddling run so fast, That syllabubs come first, and soups the last. Mr. "Walker has written a series of papers full of information on the Art of Dining. One of his objections to the present arrangement of a dinner-table, is forcibly illustrated as fol- lows:—“See a small party with a dish offish at each end of the table, and four silver covers unmeaningly starving at the • sides, wffiilst everything pertaining to the fish comes, even witk- the best attendance, provokingly lagging, one thing after another, so that contentment is out of the question, and all this is done under the pretence that it is the most convenient plan! This is an utter fallacy. The only convenient plan is, to have every thing actually upon the table that is wanted at the same time,, and nothing else: as, for example, for a party of eight, turbot and salmon, with doubles of each of the adjuncts, lobster-sauce, cucumbers, young potatoes, cayenne, and chili vinegar; and let the guests assist one another, which, wuth such an arrangement,, they could do with perfect ease.” Among the practices which interfere with comfort, are, attendants handing round vegetables,, and helping wine to the company. c 2Hints for the Table. 20 To order dinner well is a matter of invention and combination. It involves novelty, simplicity, and taste; whereas, in the generality of dinners, there is no character but that of dull routine, according to the season. The same things are seen everywhere at the same season, and, as the rules for providing limit the range very much, there are a great many good things which never make their appearance at all, and a great many others which, being served in a fixed order, are seldom half enjoyed. To form an agreeable dinner-party, every guest should be asked for some reason, upon which good fellowship mainly de- pends; for, people brought together unconnectedly, had better be kept separate. If the master of a feast wishes his party to succeed, he must know how to command, and not let his guests run ilot, each according to his own fancy. In entertaining those who are in a different class from our- selves, it is expedient to proyide for them what they ai’e least used to, and that which we are most in the way of procuring of superior quality. Manj'^ people, from their connexion with foreign countries, and with different parts of their own, are enabled to command with ease to themselves, what are interesting rarities to others; and one sure way to entertain with effect, is, to culti- vate a good understanding with those with whom we deal for the supply of the table.— Walker. To ensure a well-dressed dinner, provide enough, but beware of the common practice of having too much. The table had much better appear bare than crowded with dishes not wanted, or such as will become cold before thej’- are partaken of. The smaller the dinner, the better will be the chance of its being well cooked. Plain dinners are often spoiled by the addition of delicacies; for so much time is consumed in di-essing the latter, that the more simple cooking is neglected. The elements of a good dinner are fewer than is generall}'- sup- posed. Mr. Walker observes that, “ common soup, made at home, fish of little cost, any joints, the cheape.st vegetables, some happy and unexpensive introduction (as a finely-dressed crab, or a pudding), provided everything is good in quality, and the dishes are well dressed, and served hot and in succession, with their adjuncts—will ensure a quantity of enjoyment which no one need be afraid to offer.” All strong dishes should be eaten last, for any mild dish after them will taste flat and insipid. As a rule, take the light-coloured sauce first; for high colour is always obtained by intense reduc-The Art of Blnmg. /o' i. 01 tion of meat, and it is easy to conclude that the brown sauce must be stronger. State without the machinery of state, is of all states the woi'st. Mr. Walker relates that he once received a severe frown from a lady, at the head of her table, next to whom he was sitting, because ho offered to take some fish from her, to which she had helped liim, instead of waiting till it could be handed to him by her one servant. The old English habit of talcing wine together affords one of the most pleasing modes of recognition when distant, and one of the prettiest occasions for coquetry when near. There is a well- known lady-killer, who esteems his mode of taking wine to be, of all his manifold attractions, the chief; and, to do him justice, the tact with which he chooses his time, the air with which he gives the invitation, the empressement he contrives to throw into it, the studied carelessness with which he keeps his e}'e on the fair one’s every movement till she is prepared, and the seem- ing timidity of his bow, when he is all the while looking full into her e3'es—all these little graces are inimitable.— (Quarterly Heview. The difficulty of getting a glass of wine in the regular wa}’-, has often exercised the ingenuity of mankind. Mr. Theodore Hook was once observed, during dinner at Hatfield House, nod- ding like a Chinese mandarin in a tea-shop. On being asked the reason, he replied, “ Why, Lady Salisbmy, when no one else asks me to take champagne, I take sherry with the epergne, and bow to the flowers.” The expense of a dinner at a restaurant in Paris, is pretty nearly the same as at an English coffee-house, and greater than at an English club. At the respectable houses, a gentleman may dine for six or seven francs, or augment the expenses to the prices of the Albion or the Clarendon; but, a lai’ge party may be furni.shed at the best restaurant in Paris, the Itoclier de Cancale, for two Napoleons, or 35s. a head, with such a dinner as would be charged in London at five guineas a head.— Metropolitan. When the allied monarchs arrived.in Paris, in 1814, they were compelled to contract with a restaurateur, (Very) for the supply of their table, at the moderate sum of 3000 francs a day, ex- clusive of wine. The following maxims for giving a dinner are translated from Physiologie de Gout:— How is a meal to be regulated iu order to unite all things requisite to the highest pleasures of the table ? I proceed to answer this question.■22 Hints for the Table. 1. Let not the number of the company exceed twelve, that the conver- sation may he constantly general. 2. Let them bo so selected that their occupations shall he varied, their tastes analogous, and with such points of contact that there shall be no necessity for the odious formality of presentations. 3. Let the eating-room be luxuriously lighted, the cloth remarkably ■clean (!), and the atmosphere at the temperature of from thirteen to six- teen degrees Eeaumur. (60 to 68 degrees fahrenheit.) 4. Let the men be spirituels without pretension—the women pleasant without too much coquetry. (‘ I wi-ite,’ says the author, in a note, ‘between the Palais Eoyal and the Chaussde d’Antin.’) 6. Let the dishes be exceedingly choice, but limited in number, and the wines of the first quality, each in its degree. 6. Let the order of progression be, for the first (the dishes), from the most substantial to the lightest; and for the second (the wines), from the ■simplest to the most perfumed. 7. Let the act of consumption be deliberate, the dinner being the last business of the day; and let the guests consider themselves as travellers who are to arrive together at the same place of destination. 8. Let the coffee be hot, and the liqueurs cliose>i by the master. 9. Let the saloon be large enough to admit of a game at cards for those who cannot do without it, and so that there may, notwithstanding, remain space enough for post-meridian colloquy. 10. Let the party be detained by the charms of society, and animated by the hope that the evening will not pass without some ulterior enjoyment. 11. Let the tea be not too strong; let the toast be scientifically buttered, and the punch carefully prepared. 12. Let no retreat commence before eleven, but let everybody be in bed by twelve. Lf any one has been present at a party uniting these twelve requisites, ibe may boast of having been present at his o'wn apotheosis. Lady Morgan has described a dinner by Carbine, at the Baron Eothschild’s villa, near Paris; wherein “ no burnished gold re- flected the glaring sunset, no brilliant silver dazzled the eyes; porcelain, beyond the price of all precious metals, by its beauty and its fragility, every piece a picture, consorted with the gene- ral character of sumptuous simplicity which reigned over the ■whole.” The crowning merit of this splendid repast appeared to he that “ every meat presented its own natural aroma—every vegetable its own shade of verdure.” The accomplished Earl of Dudley said; a good'soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, ducklings with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and apricot tart, is a dinner fit for an emperor— when he cannot get a better. Mr. Walker well observes: Anybody can dine, but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity of health .and enjoyment. Indeed many people contrive to destroy their health; and as to enjoyment, I shudder when I think how often23 Giving Dinners. I have sat in durance stately to go througli the ceremony of a dinner, the essence of which is to be without dinner; and how often in this land of liberty I have thought myself a slave. Such is now the mania for large parties, or so absorbing the vanity of caste, that, during the flush of the London season, there is no longer a semblance of sociability—nor can even pleasure, in and by itself, be deemed the main object of pursuit: for, we verily believe that if all the pleasantest people in town were collected m a room, the men and women of “ society ” would be restless in it, unless they could say they were going to the ball or eoncert of the night:— “ Which opens to the happy few An earthly paradise of or-molu.” Quarterly Seview. It is a foolish plan to profess to give dinners better than other people. “ Unless you are a very rich, or a very great man, no folly is equal to that of thinking that you soften the hearts of your friends, by soups a la bisque and Vermuth wine, at a guinea a bottle! They all go away, saying, ‘ What right has that d—d fellow to give a better dinner than we do ? What horrid taste —what ridiculous presumption! ’ ”—Bulioer. When will mankind cease to be hoaxed with the idea that the pleasures of society are in proportion to the grandeur of the scale on which they are enjoyed. One of the greatest sources of com- plaint in society is the want of propriety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family din- ner to the splendid banquet: for instance, a family dinner; a family dinner to which guests are admitted; a common dinner party; an entertainment; a bachelor’s dinner; a ministerial dinner; and a dress dinner. Though these and similar enter- tainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of society. At the plainest as well as of the most splendid of these entertainments, everything ought to be as good and as well cooked, and nice as possible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous. Splendid banquets are often failures. Foote thus describes one: “ As to splendour, as far as it went, I admit it, there was a very fine sideboard of plate; and if a man could have swallowed a silversmith’s shop, there was enough to satisfy him ; but as to all the rest, the mutton was white, the veal was red, the fish was kept too long, the venison not kept long enough : to sum up all, every thing was cold except the ice, and every thing sour except the vinegar.” A shabby, scheming system of giving dinners is thus satirized by Bulwer : “ The cook puts plenty of ilour into the oyster sauce;24 Ilhifs for the Talle. cods’ head and shoulders make the iiivariahlo fish; and Hour entries, without flavour or pretence, are duly supplied by the pastry-coolc, and carefully eschewed by the host.” Bulwer makes one of his novel-heroes let his villa to his wine- merchant; the rent just pays his hill. “You will taste some of the sofas and tables in his champagne! I don’t know how it is, but I always fancy my sherry smells like my poor uncle’§ old leather chair; very odd smell it had—a kind of respectable smell.’” The Table. CiECULAE Dining and Supper Tables are gradually coming into fashion, so as, in imagination, to revive the chivalric glory of the “ Bound Table.” An expanding table of this form has recently' been invented, the sections of which may be caused to diverge from a common centre, so that the table ma}' be enlarged or ex- panded by inserting leaves, or pieces, in the openings, or spaces, caused by such divergence. An immense table has been con- structed upon this principle for Devonshire House; it consists of some dozen pieces. This novelty in the table has given rise to a new form of table-cloth manufacture, of great costliness and beautiful design. The setting of the loom for a cloth for a large circular table is stated to have cost £70. Tables Volantes (flying tables), are understood to have been invented under the eye of Louis XV. “ At the petits-soiipers of Choisy were first introduced those admirable pieces of mechauism, which descended and rose again, covered with viands and wines.” ■—{Notes to Rogers's Roems.) This singular contrivance was, we believe, introduced by Mr. Beckford, at Bonthill, the praudial appointments of which were in luxurious style. Though ]\Ir. Beckford rarely entertained any society, yet he had his table sumptuously covered daily. He has beeu known to give orders for a dinner for twelve persons, and to sit down alone to it, attended by twelve servants in full dress—eat of one dish, and send all the rest away. There was no bell in the mansion; the servants waiting by turns in the ante-rooms. The management of an epergne, plateau, or centre-piece, pre- sents an opportunity for the display of taste; as these superb ornaments are usually of beautiful forms, richly chased: the glass-pieces and the plate should be alike in brilliant order. If dinner-rolls be not used, bread should not be cut less than one inch and a half thick. A judicious arrangement of dishes gives additional merit to a dinner, and the entries of any appearance should be always parallel: it adds wonderfully to the effect.Jjight 'mg Rooms. 2S As boilintj water will often break cold glasses, so cold liquid will break hot glasses : thus, wine, if poured into decanters that have been placed before the fire, will frequently break them. In purchasing wax, spermaceti, or composition candles, there will be a saving by proportioning the length or size of the lights to- the probable duration of the party. Mixed wax and sperniaceti candles, four to the pound, will last ten hours; a short six will burn six hours; and a th'ee, twelve hours. There should be as man}" lights at the dinner table as there are guests. N Candle-making has become a scientific manufacture, especially in the hands of Price’s Company at Vauxhall, whose elegant modifications of the more costly wax-light give improved light for less money. Gas-lighting has been Introduced into private houses, but with equivocal success. Mr. Lockhart well observes that “ the blaze and glow, and occasional odour of gas, when spread over every part of a private house, will ever constitute a serious annoyance ibr the majority of men—still more so of women.” Sir Walter Scott, in 1823, introduced gas-lighting into the dining-room at Abbotsford. “ In sitting down to table in autumn, no one observed that in each of three chandeliers there lurked a little tiny bead of red light. Dinner passed off, and the sun went down, and suddenly, at the turning of a screw, the room was filled with a gush of splendour, worthy of the palace of Aladdin; but, as in the case of Aladdin, the old lamp would have been better in the upshot. Jewellery sparkled, but cheeks and lips looked cold and wan in this fiei’ce illumination ; and the eye was wearied, and the brow ached, if the sitting was at all protracted.”—Life of Scotty vol. V. American waiters are not fond of being called by the sound of a bell, and unless in large towns you scarcely see them in the United States. Bells, however, are not in universal use in Europe: they are more frequent in England than in any other country • even in Prance they are far from general. In Turkey there are none, as Lord Byron teUs us : Turkey contains no bells, and yet men dine. In some large establishments in Britain, the in-door signal for dinner is the loud sounding of a gong instead of the bell. Flowers have, of late years, been introduced at table with delightful effect. The Romans, it is certain, considered flowers essential to their festal preparations; and, at their desserts, the- number of flowers far exceeded that of fruits. “ Thirteen to Dinner."—There is a prejudice, generally, on the pretended danger of being the thirteenth at table. If the-26 Ilmis for the Table. probability be required, that out of thirteen persons, of different ages, one of them, at least, shall die within a year, it will be found that the chpces are about one to one that one death, at least, will ■occur. Ihis calculation, by means of ;i false interpretation, ha.s given rise to the prejudice, no less ridiculous, that the danger will be avoided by inviting a greater number of guests, which can only have the effect of augmenting the probability of the event so much apprehended.— Queielet, on ike Calculation of Frohahilities. This superstition obtains in Italy and Ilussia, as well as in England.^ Moore, in his Diary, vol. ii. p. 206, mentions there being thirteen at dinner one day at Madame Catalani’s, when a Erench countess, who lived with her upstairs, was sent for to remedy the grievance. Again, Lord L. said he had dined o;ice abroad at Count OrlofTs, who did not sit down to dinner, but Icept wallcing from chair to chair, because “ the Naristiken were at table, who, he knew, would rise instantl}' if they perceived the number thirteen, which Orlofl' would have made by sitting down himself.”—Things not generally Knoicn. Walpole gives an odd account of a Mrs. Holman, whose pas- sion was, keeping an assembly and inviting literally everybody to it. “ She goes to the di-awing-room to watch for sneezers, whips out a curtsey, and then sends next morning to know how your cold does, and desire your company on Thursda3\” Carving. To be able to cai’ve well is an useful and elegant accomplish- ment. It is an artless recommendation to a man who is looking out for a wife. Bad carving is alike inconsistent with good manners and economy, and evinces in those who neglect it, not only a culpable disrespect to the opinion of the world, but carelessness, inaptitude, and indifference to any object of ntilit}'. The Honours of the Table were until within a few years per- formed by the mistress of the house. In the last century, this task must have requii-ed no small share of bodily strength, “ for the lady was not only to invite—that is, urge and tease— her company to eat more than human throats could conveniently swallow, but to carve every dish, when chosen, with her own hands. The greater the lady, the more indispensable the dut}’’,— ■each joint was carried uji in its turn, to be operated upon by her, and her alone; since the peers and knights on either hand were so far from being bound to offer their assistance, that theThe Art of Carving. 27 very master of the house, posted opposite to lier, might not act as her croupier; his department was to push the bottle after dinner. As for the crowd of guests, the most inconsiderable among them—the curate, or subaltern, or squire’s younger^bro- ther—if suffered through her neglect to help himself to a slice of tlie mutton placed before him, would have chewed it in bitterness, and gone home an affronted man, half inclined to give a wrong vote'at the next election. There were then professed carving masters, who taught young ladies the art scientifically; from one of whom Lady Mary Wortley Montague said she took lessons three times a week, that she might be perfect on her father’s days ; when in order to perform her functions without interrup- tion, she was forced to eat her own dinner alone an hour or two beforehand,—Loi'd Wharncliffe s edition of the Correspond- ence of Cady W. Montague. You should praise, not ridicmle your friend, who carves with as much earnestness of purpose as though he were legislating.— Dr. Johnson. When those persons who carve badly come to keep house themselves, they will soon find to their cost, the extravagance and waste of bad carving and bad management. In a club, nothing is so prejudioial as bad carving. A joint ill carved at first by one, is always disregarded by the other mem- bers ; and, frequentlj’, from this circumstance, a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentable, and is left to the loss of the establishment.— Tide. In serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is sufficient. A knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavour; so that it should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, and bo eaten with a silver fork and bread. Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a little on one side. In helping at table, never employ a knife where you can use a spoon. The fairest mode of cutting a ham, so as to eat fat and lean evenly, is to begin at a hole in the centre of the thickest part, and cut from it thin circular slices: by this means also the moisture and flavour of the ham are best preserved. The upper part of a roast sirloin of beef should be carved at the end, and never cut in the middle, unless you wish to destroy the joint in revenge. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone, by which, method you never spoil the joint, and help many persons with little meat; what remains looks well, and is good to eat. In carving a leg of mutton, slice it lightly, else, if you pressHints for the Talk. 28 too heavily, the knife will not cut, you will squeeze out all the gravy, and serve your guests with dry meat. Ude considers a saddle of mutton is usually carved contrary to taste and judgment. “To have the meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bone: then turn the knife straight from you, and cut the first slice out, and cut slices lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the bone in this manner, it will have a better appear- ance, and you will be able to assist more guests.” If you begin to carve a joint in tlie middle, the gravy will run out on both sides, and the meat shrink and become dry, and no more presentable. Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the best pai-t; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lady. In helping roast pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets, so as not to give a bone, which would be a breach of good manners. There are certain choice cuts or delicacies with which a good carver is acquainted : among them are the sounds of cod-fish, the thin or fat of salmon, the thick and fins of turbot; a portion of the liver and roe to each person; the fat of venison, lamb, and veal kidney; the long cuts, and gravy from “ the alderman’s walli” of a haunch of venison or mutton; the pope’s eye in a leg of mutton; the oyster cut of a shoulder of mutton; the ribs and neck of a pig; the breast and wings of a fowl; back pieces, ears, and brains of a hare; the breast and thighs, (without the di'um- sticks,) of turkey and goose ; the legs and breast of a duck; the wings, breast, and back of game. Before cutting up a wild duck, slice the breast, and pour over the gashes a few spoonsful of sauce, composed of port wine or claret (warmed), lemon juice, salt, and cayenne pepper; dexterity in preparing which is a test of gentlemanly practice. The most delicate parts of a calf’s head are the bit under the ears, next the eyes, and the side next the cheek. If craw-fish be added to a fricasseed chicken, (as in France), one of the fish should be placed on the top, in dishing, and served to the first guest. If you should happen to meet with an accident at table, en-29 Soups. deavgur to preserve your composure, and do not add to the dis- comfort you have created by making an unnecessary fuss about it. An accomplished gentleman, when carving a tough goose, had the misfortune to send it entirely out of the dish, and into the lap of the lady next to him; on which he very coolly looked her full in the face, and with admirable gravity and calmness, said,—“ Madam, I will thank you for that goose.” In a case like this, a person must neces.sarily suffer so much, and be such, an object of compassion to the company, that the kindest thing he could do was to appear as unmoved as possible. The manner of bearing such a mortifying accident gained him more credit than he lost by his awkward carving.—The Young Lady's Friend. Soups. Beoths and soups are difficult of digestion, if made a meal of; but have not this effect if eaten in a small quantity. They may be rendered more easily digestible if thickened with any fari- naceous substance; bread eaten with every mouthful of soup answers as well.—Mayo. On a good first broth, and good sauce, you must depend for good cookery. The smallest drop of fat or grease is insufferable, and characterizes bad cookery, and a cook without method. The French chemists have ascertained that soujj may be made more delicate by soaking the meat first at a low temperature, and setting aside the weak stock, to which should subsequently bo added the strong broth obtained by adding freshwater to the meat, and continuing the boiling. The great fault of English soups most in favour, is their strength or weight, from the quantity of meat in their composi- tion. Soup, it should be recollected, is not especially intended as a point in a repast; wherefore, it has been shrewdly observed, tliat to begin dinner by stuffing one’s self with ox tail or mock turtle when two or three dishes are to follow, argues a thorough coarseness of conception, and implies, moreover, the digestive powers of an ostrich. The general fault of English tavern soups is an excess of spices, ketchup, and salt, to mask their poorness. Liebig tells how the best beef tea or brown gravy should be made. “ When one pound of lean beef, i'ree from fat, and sepa- rated from the bones, in the finely-chopped state in which it is used for beef sausages, or mincemeat, is uniformly mixed with its own weight of cold water, then slowly heated to boiling, and the liquid after boiling briskly for a minute or two is strained80 Hints for the Table. through a cloth or sieve from the coagulated albumen and tht fibrin, which are then become hard and hornj', we obtain an equal weight of the most aromatic soup, of such strength as can be had even by boiling for hours from a piece of flesh; also when mixed with salt, and the other additions by which soup is usually f seasoned, and tinged somewhat darker by means of roasted onions or burnt sugar, it forms the very best soup that can be prepared from a pound of flesh.” And Liebig calls the “ essence of meat,” that which is simply the very strongest soup, subse- quently concentrated by evaporation, till on cooling it acquires a consistence nearly like that of treacle. It does not form a jelly, because pure soup contains no gelatine, and the gelatine is not wanted. If, however, the boiling with the meat be continued longer gelatine is dissolved, and a jelly formed on cooling in the soup, which, in spite of the jelly, is no better than that which does not gelatinize. The essence of meat is now made and pre- served in tins. It is, in fact, beef tea of astounding strength. Liebig observes, it might be made at a very small cost in Brazil and in Australia, where whole herds are slaughtered for the hides and tallow alone. It is onl}’- necessary to add the due pro- portion of hot water, with salt and any other seasoning that may be desired, and an admirable nutritious soup is made at a minute’s notice. Spring soup, or Julienne, is the proper thing in the ordinary run of houses in this country, where varieties of the simple fotage are unknown. Spring soup, from Birch’s, in Cornhill, is particularly recommended in the season, as being quite delicious. Dr. Hunter observes of a rich vegetable soup with meat, that it is only proper for those who do not stand in fear of gouty shoes and a pair of crutches. CaiTot soup (or the French Soup a I’Aurore), can only he made in perfection when the carrots are newj old carrots will not answer. It is very wholesome and medicinally antiscorbutic. The elegant mode of cutting vegetables and herbs to be eaten in soups, is in fillets thus : Vermicelli should be broken, and then blanched in boiling water to take off the taste of dust, before it is put into soups. If it be not broken it will be in long pieces, and unpleasant to serve. It should not be allowed to remain too long in soup, else it will become a paste; the time should not exceed fifteen minutes. The pet potage of George III., was a rich vermicelli soup, with a few very green chervil leaves in it; and, with his more epicurean successor, it was equally a favourite. It was first served from the kitchen at Windsor.81 Soups: Turtle. The French have a soup which they call “ Potage a la Camemhi,” of which it is said, “ a single spoonful will lap the- patient in Elysium, and while one drop remains on the tongue, each other sense is eclipsed by the voluptuous thrilling of the lingual nerves.” Giblet soup, according to Dr. Hunter, is as full of gout as the richest turtle. As turtle is the regina vohiptatis, this dish may be said to be one of her maids of honour. Marigold-flowers, di'ied and rubbed to powder, improve broths and soups, however much this addition has fallen into disuse. Asparagus tops should be put into soup at the moment of sending it up. Carrageen or Irish Moss is an excellent thickener of soups and broths; and it is a very economical substitute for isinglass in orange, lemon, or savory jellies, and blanc-mange. Grouse soup is made at Hamilton on the principle of a young grouse to each of the party, in addition to six or seven brace stewed down beforehand for stock. TUETIiE. Ude asserts, that the receipt for tm'tle-soup, in his French Cooh, is the best, if not the only practical one in print, upon which he has bestowed his utmost care and attention. When in manu- script, he obtained a very high price for it. In dressing a turtle, be cautious not to study a very brown colour; the natural green being preferred by every epicure and true connoisseur. To keep turtle-soup three weeks or a month, cover it about an inch thick with lard with which a little oil has been mixed; it being poured on when it will only just flow. If you warm turtle-soup in a bain-marie, it will retain its flavour; but, if }'Ou warm it often, it will become strong, and lose its delicacy of flavour. The usual allowance at what is called a Turtle-Dinner, is 61b. live weight per head. At the Spanish-Dinner, at the Cit}”^ of London Tavern, in 1808, four hundred guests attended, and 2500 lb. of turtle were consumed. For the Banquet at Guildhall, on Lord Mayor’s Dajq Novem- ber 9th, 250 tureens of turtle are provided. Dr. Kitchiner observes, that turtles often become emaciated and sickly before they reach this country, in which case the soup would be incomparably improved by leaving out the turtle, and Buhstituting a good calf’s head. In turtles’ eggs, the yolk soon becomes hard on boiling, wliilst82 llhits for the Table. the white remains liquid; a result in direct opposition to the changes in boiling the eggs of birds. The fins of the turtle make a luxurious side dish. The fins of the turbot are likewise much esteemed. Turtle may be enjoyed in steaks, cutlets, or fins; and—as soup, clear smipurSe—at the Albion, London, and Freemasons’, and other large taverns. “ The Ship and Turtle Tavern,” Nos. 129 and 130, Leadenhall-strcet, is especially famous for its turtle; and from this establishment several of the West-end club-houses ai'e supplied. Of coui'se, Turtle, like everything else in this lower world, has its degrees of excellence; but the amphibious delicacy is rarely to be obtained in puris naturalihus, in this country: that is, the soup is excellent, but it is not turile, per se. I admit it (says a writer in the New Ilonthli/ Magazine), to he a ricli and savoury compound, in which some savouiw morceaux of its godfather may occasionally be found floating; but the suscitatinp; juices with which the accidental luxury is presented to us, are extracted from the hinder- legs of a calf and an ox; the foundation, in fact, is composed of veal and beef, and a masterly introduction of appetizing condiments, which are both palatable and pleasing; but, believe me, it is no more like the turtle soup of the Western hemisphere, than pea-soup, made from that delicate vegetable in the spring, is to a nankeen-coloured mess concocted in the winter, bearing the same name. The truth is, the tm-tle is too expensive a delicacy to warrant such a lavish expenditure of its succulent nourish- ment, and the luscious troasm’e is husbanded accordinglj'. In the West Indies, cest une autre affaire: the turtle are too plentiful to require the meretricious aid of stock and gravy. Tliere, the whole is consumed for soup, excepting the callipee; and I need scarcely add, it is exquisitely delicious. A turtle of eighty to one hundred pounds, is con- sidered, by all right-judging epicures, to be the proper size and growth for perfect eating; and will furnish a satisfactory repast for some ton or a dozen lovers of this delicacy; although I have known tlmee turtles to be slain for a regular turtle-feast in one of the Caribbean Islands; viz., a chicken tm'tle for steaks, than which a juvenile fowl is not more delicate; one of a hundred for soup and stewed fins; and a large lien turtle for eggs, and callipash, or stew, and from which also the ncvcr-to-be-sutli- ciently-laudcd green fat is;pilfered, to fill up any deficiency in the supply for the tureen. Gentle reader, if you have any accidental acquaintances, cultivate them, by all means, to the utmost extent in your power; they are kind, open-hearted, and liberal to a fault; and if, perchance, they send you a turtle of the true breed, take my advice, do not think of dress- ing it at your own house (for which you will insure the gratitude of 3'our cook), but send it to the Albion, the London Tavern, or Birch; and in return, they will, any one of them, send you sufficient soup for three or four parties. Give them the turtle, and whenever you wish to entertain a select few of the lovers of good eating, you can command a liberal supply of matchless soup, without the trouble or expense that would have attended the abortive attempts of your own servant for one entertainment.83 Frogs and Snails. EDIBLE FSOGS. The kind legs of frogs are fricasseed, and their fore legs and livers are put into soups on the Continent. The edible frog is considerably larger than the common frog, and though rare in England, is common in Italy, France, and Germany. Frogs are brought from the country to Vienna, 3000 or 4000 at a time, and sold to the great dealers, who have conservatories for them. Frogs fried, with crisped parsley, such as is given with fried eels, are a dish for the gods. There is a notion prevalent that they are very dear; but, in the carte of the Roclier de Cancale, at Paris, grenouilles frites are marked at the moderate price of a franc and a half plat. SNAILS.—A SNAIL DINNEE. Snails abound in Italy and Spain more than in the other parts of Europe. In Italy, snails anciently were, and still are, much used for the table. They are regularly sold in the markets, as well as in those of Switzerland, Spain, and France, and are exported in barrels to the Antilles. In the vineyards of France, the peasants collect them, and feed them till winter, when the snails seal themselves up; and in this state they are purchased by the confectioners, who prepare them in the shell with butter and herbs, and forward them to Paris. In Transylvania, the large wood snail is a favourite dish. It is drawn out of the shell, cut small, mixed with a kind of savoury stuffing, and served up and replaced in the shell. In some parts of the country, instead of eggs and fowls, the peasants pay their tribute in snails and game. Mr. Paget states one lady’s ordinary winter supply to be upwards of 5000 snails. Here is an amusing anecdote of an experimental snail dinner. The chemical philosophers, Dr. Black and Dr. Hutton, were particular friends, though there was something extremely opposite in their external appearance and manner. Dr. Black spoke with the English pronuneia- tion, and with punctilious accuracy of expression, both in point of matter and manner. The geologist, Dr. Hutton, was the very reverse of this: his conversation w’as conducted in broad phrases, expressed with a broad Scotch accent, which often heightened the humour of what he said. It chanced that the two doctors had held some discourse together upon the folly of abstaining from feeding on the testaceous creatures of the land, while those of the sea were considered as delicacies. Wherefore not cat snails? they are known to be nutritious and wholesome, and even sanative in some cases. The epicures of old praised them among the richest delicacies, and the Italians still esteem them. In short, it was determined that a gastronomic experiment should be made at the expense of the snails. The snails were procured, dieted for a time, and then stewed for the benefit of the two philosophers, who had either invited no guests to their banquet, or found none who relished in prospect the piece de DHints for the Table. 84. resistance. A huge dish of snails was placed before them: still, philoso- phers are hut men after all; and the stomachs of both doctors begfin to revolt against the experiment. Nevertheless, if they looked with dLsgust on the snails, they retained their awe for each other, so that each, conceiv- ing the symptoms of internal revolt peculiar to himself, began, with inli- nite exertion, to swallow, in very small quantities, the mess which he internally loathed. Dr. Black at length showed the white feather, but in a very delicate manner, as if to sound the opinion of his messmate. “ Doctor,” he said, in his precise and quiet manner—“ Doctor, do you think that they taste a little—a very little, greenP” “D d green! d d green, indeed! Tak’ them awa’—tak’ them awa’!” vociferated Dr. Hutton, starting up from table, and giving full vent to his feelings of abhorrence. So ended all hopes of introducing snails into the modem cuisine; and thus g^osophy can no more cure a nausea, than honour can set a broken Fish. !Pisii of different kinds varies in digestibility. The most digestible is Avhiting, boiled; haddock next; cod, soles, and turbot are richer and heavier; eels, when stewed, notwithstanding their richness, are digestible. Perch is, perhaps, the most digestible river-fish; salmon is not very digestible, unless in a fresher state than that in which much of it reaches the London market.— Mayo. That we are large consumers of fish may be inferred from the fact that the annual supply of this article to the London market alone exceeds 402,964,000 lbs. of fish proper, i. e., in its raw state. To this we may add some 47,816,000 lbs. of dried and .smoked fish; making a grand total of 450,780,000 lbs. and upwards, and this, be it remembered, exclusive of shell fish. The consumption of fish in the metropolis has been considerably increased by the vigilance of the inspectors at Billingsgate: it formerly happened that a family who had once or twice purchased bad fish, gave uj) the use of an article which there was some un- certainty of procuring in a proper state. The high price of fish is not, as generally supposed, from any monopoly in the sale of it; but is, in a great measure, owing to the system of credit which the retail dealer is compelled to give; the frequent losses he sustains, and to the practice of the patronage of noblemen and gentlemen being disposed of by their servants in consideration of a heavy per-centage. A full season and scarce supply occasionally raise the price •enormously; as in the case of four guineas being paid for a lobster for sauce, which, being the only one in the market, was -divided for two London epicures! During very rough weather.85 Freshness of Fish. scarcely an oyster can be procured in the metropolis. In the height of the season, a fine cod-fish has been sold for a guinea and a half. And some moyen-age readers may recollect a piquant story of Lady Eldon (the Chancellor’s parsimonious wife), con- senting to sell half a tm-bot which she had ordered, when told of its extravagantly high price. Salmon at Billingsgate is now often sold at the rate of butcher’s meat; and, owing to the rapidity of its conveyance by steam, is in much better condition than when higher prices were demanded for it. No general rule of certainty can be laid down for determining the freshness of Fish, and its fitness for food, as has been com- monly supposed, unless we are acquainted with the habits of the several species. Mr. Yarrell, the distinguished naturalist, ob- serves : “ It may he considered as a law that those fish that swim near the surface of the water, have a high standard of respira- tion, a low degi’ee of muscular irritability, and great necessity for oxygen, die soon—almost immediately when taken out of the water, and have flesh prone to rapid decomposition. On the con- trary, those fish that live near the bottom of the water have a low standard of respiration, a high degree of muscular irrita- bility, and less necessity for oxygen; they sustain life long after they are taken out of the water, and them flesh remains good several days. The carp, the tench, the various flat fish, and the eel, are seen gaping and writhing on the stalls of the fishmongers for hours in succession; but no one sees any symptoms of motion in the mackerel, the salmon, the trout, or the herring, unless present at the capture. These four last-named, and many others of the same habits, to be eaten in the greatest perfection, should be prepared for the table the same day they are caught ;* but the turbot, delicate as it is, may be kept till the second day with advantage, and even longer without injury; and fishmongers, generally, are well aware of the circumstance, that fisH from deep water have the muscle more dense in structure—in their language, more firm to the touch—that they are of finer flavour, and will keep longer than fish drawn from shallow water.— Yarrell’s Sistory of British Fishes. * The chub swims near the top of the water, and is caught with a fly, a moth, or a grasshopper, upon the surface; and Isaac Walton says, “But take this rule with you—that a chub newly taken and newly dressed is so much better than a chub of a day’s keeping after he is dead, that I can compare him to nothing so fitly as to cherries newly gathered firom a tree, and others that have been bruised and lain a day or two in water.”36 Hints for the Talle. Soyer, in. his excellent Gastronomic ^Regenerator, saj's :— For the lost few years there has been quite an alteration in the descrip- tion of the seasons for fish. Except the cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness of rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle; but the method I follow during the season is as follows:— Crimped Gloucester salmon is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may bo procured almost all the year round. Common salmon from March to July. Salmon peale from Juno to July. Spey trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot, soles, and brill are in season all the year round. Jolm Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all tha year round for the epicure, May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth mackerel is from the 12lh of May till the end of July; now wo have Christmas mackerel; then the west of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April. Haddock and whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish; the Yar- mouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dulch are also very large, and lose proportionally in the estimation of the epicure. Gurnards are spring fish. Fresh herrings, from November to January. Eiver eels all the year round. Lobsters and prawns, spring and part of summer. Crabs are best in May. Barrelled oysters, from the middle of September till the end of February. Sprats were formerly said to come in on Lord Mayor’s Day (Nov. 9), but they are only good in frosty weather. Kiver-fish out of season and unwholesome, are constantlj- sold and eaten at London during March, April, and May, from the purchasers being ignorant that the above are the fencing or spawning months tor all kinds of river-fish, except trout and eels. Lish appear to be strangely underrated in England; out of upwards of 170 distinct species of good and wholesome fish in our markets, scarcely one-l'ourth are even named in cookery books. Much of this dislike of fish has arisen from its being eaten when out of season, or from being too long or carelessly kept. In Austria, the art of carrying and keeping fish is better un- aerstood than in England. Every inn has a box, containing grayling, trout, carp, or char, into which water from a spring runs; and no one thinks of carrying or sending dead fish for a dinner. The fish are fed, so that they are often in better sea.son in the tank, or stew, than when they were taken. At Admont, in Styria, attached to the monastery of that name, are ponds andSalmon. 37 reservoirs for every soi-t of fresh-water fish; and the char, gra}"- liiig, and trout are i)reserved in different waters—covered, and under lock and key. Sir Humphry Davy describes a fish-dinner at Lintz, on the Danube, of a different kind from any in England. “ There were the four kinds of perch, the spiegel carpfen and the silvois glacis, all good fish, which we have not in England, where they might be easily naturalized, and would form an admirable addi- tion to the table in inland counties. Since England has become Pi’otestant, the cultivation of fresh-water fish has been much neglected. Fish is of little account in an East Indian dinner, and can only maintain its post as a side dish; for in the hot season, fish caught early in the morning would be much deteriorated before dinner. In Norway fish are prepared for distant markets by putting them into an oven of a moderate heat, and gradually but thoroughly drying them. Fried fish is best drained by wrapping it in soft whited-brown paper, after which it will not soil the napkin upon which it is served. Fish is often spoiled by the mode in which it is served. It is mostly covered up, when it is made sodden bj’ the fall of the condensed steam from the cover. The practice of putting boiled and fried fish on the same dish is bad, as it is deprived of its crispness from contact with the boiled; and garnishing hot fish with cold parsley is abominable. Dried salt-fish should be soaked in water, then taken out for a time, and soaked again before it is dressed. This plan is much better than constant soaking ; the fibres of the fish being loosened by alternate expansion and contraction, which occasions the fish to come off in flakes. Fish sauce should always be thick enough to adhere to the fish. It had better be too thick than too thin, for it can be thinned at table by adding some of the cruet sauces. Dutch sauce is excellent for all kinds of fish ; as it does not, like most other sauces, destroy the flavour of the fish. SALMON. The cupidity of fishermen, the rivalry of epicures, and the fastidiousness of the palate of salmon eaters, have fancifully multiplied the species of the salmon. One of the most cele- brated varietes in the annals of epicurism is Vomhre chevalier, of the Lake of Geneva, identical with the char of England, the88 Hints for the Table. Alpine trout, the rotheli of Swiss Germany, and the schwarz renta of Saltzburg. The Cliristchnrch salmon is decidedly the best in England; for the Thames salmon may now be considered extinct, not more than four having been caught in as many years, though a good many have been sold as such. Split salmon is fashionable; and it is the best mode in which the fish can be dressed to ensure its being boiled throughout. On the Tweed, and in other salmon districts, a salmon is never boiled whole. Quivered or crimped salmon is the only kind introduced at the table of the true gourmet. If it be left too long in the water, it loses all its taste and colour. Sir Humphry Davy has described the mode of crimping salmon in its native district. The fish is first stunned by a blow on the head, then cut crosswise just below the gills, and crimped by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him into slices : he is next put into a cold spring for ten minutes, and then put slice by slice into a pot of salt and water boiling furiousl}’’; time being allowed for the water to recover its heat after the throwing in of each slice : the head is left out, and the thickest pieces are thrown in first. Sir Humphry explains the effect of crimping and cold in preserving the curd of the fish, by con- cluding that the fat of the salmou between the flakes of the muscles being mixed with much albumen and gelatine, is ex- tremely liable to decompose, but is kept cool by the spring; and, by the boiling salt and water (which is of a higher temperature than that of common boiling water) the albumen Ls coagulated, and the curdiness is preserved. And the crimijiug, by prevent- ing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhausted, seems to preserve it so hard, that it breaks under the teeth, while a fresh fish, not crimped, is generally tough. This may improve small fish, but will cause a large, fine fed fish to eat too dry and brittle. To choose crimped salmon, see that it rises at the edges of the cuts, and that the muscle is well contracted between them, which should develope the flakes, and appear firm and elastic. At Killarney, on the lake bank, the freshly-caught salmon is cut into slices, and broiled over a fire of arbutus-wood, in the ashes of which are placed potatoes, not only for roasting, but that they may receive the fat and juices of the broiling fish. It is said that one of the wonders which the Frazers of Lovat, who were lords of the manor, used to show their guests, was a voluntarily cooked salmon, at the Falls of Kilmorac. For this purpose a kettle was placed upon the flat rock on the south side of the fall, close by the edge of the water, and kept full and39 Salmon.—Tiirhot. boiling. There is a considerable extent of the rock where tents were erected, and the whole was under a canopy of overhanging trees. There the company are said to have waited till a salmon fell into the kettle and was boiled in their presence; “ a mode- of entertainment, I confess,” says Mr. Hofiand, “ myself inca- pable of coveting, being too much of a sportsman, and too little of an epicure, to desire conquest so unworthy, and cooking so- unnatural.” There is annually given at Aberdeen, “ a Eoyal Salmon Dinner,” at which sometimes as many as two hundred guests enjoy “ the fine fish.” Probably the largest salmon ever heard of, in the London market, was in the possession of Mr. Grove, of New Bond-street t it weighed eighty-three pounds. So successful has the artificial breeding of salmon become in France, that whereas, a few years ago, it was difficult to procure this fish in Paris for less than three or four shillings per pound, it can now be sold as low as sixpence per pound. Salmon Cutlets are fried as follows : Dip slices of salmon into Florence oil, strew over them Cayenne pepper and salt, and wrap them in oiled paper; fry them ten minutes in boiling lard, and then lay the papered cutlets on a gridiron, over a clear fire, for three minutes longer. In broiling salmon, set the gridiron on a slope, with a vessel to receive the oil that drains off, which, if it fell into the fire, would spoil the fish.* Dried salmon should be very red when cut; otherwise it is a bad fish. The Parr, very like a small trout, is a most delicious little fish, when fried; and when potted, equal to the Charr. TITEBOT. The best proof of condition in the Turbot is the thickness of the body, and an opaque light cream-colour on the pale side; if thin, with a bluish cast, like water tinged with butter-milk, the fish is out of season. In 1832, a turbot weighing 192. pounds was caught off Whitby. Prom fifteen to twenty pounds is the usual weight, but a turbot of a single pound weight has a very fine flavour. * ^ 1842, a poor fellow was taken before the authorities of Paris, for begging in the streets. He had studied the science pf Cookery under the celebrated CarSme, and was the inventor of the delicious Saumons truffis a la broche; he attributed his poverty to the decline of Cookery from a science to a low art! We remember to have read that cooks, in nine cases out of ten, after ministering to the luxury of the opulent, creep into holes and comers, and pass neglected out of the world.40 Hints for the Table. A turbot, it kept two or three d;i3's, will eat much finer than a very fresh one; it being only necessary to sprinkle the fish with salt, and hang it by the tail in a cool place. Before putting it into the kettle, make an incision in the back, rub it well with salt, and then with a cut lemon. If a turbot be boiled too fast, it will be woolly. Careme directs a boiled turbot to be garnished with a large boiled lobster, and this lobster to be garnished with smelts, fastened with silver skewers. A small turbot broiled is excellent. A roasted turbot was the boast of a party of connoisseurs, who dined at Friceur’s, in 1836; but a gentleman had the curiosity to ask M. Friceur in what manner he set about dressing the fish :—“ Why, Sare, j’ou no tell Monsieur le Docteur Somerville (one of the epicurean guests); we no roast him at all, we put him in oven and bake him.” This anecdote is related in a recent number of the Quarterly Review. Nasturtium flowers make a brilliant garnish for a turbot; as do also lobster-spawn and cut lemon. By the way, Quin, unlike the herd of epicures, preferred the flesh of the dark side of the turbot. Cold turbot, or soles, may be dressed as salad: or the fillets may be warmed in white sauce for a side dish. Or; the fish may be made into a delicious omelet. COD. The larger Cod are generally the firmest and best flavoured fish, the smaller ones being soft and watery—though they may be improved by sprinkling them with salt a few days before they are cooked. Cod is a winter fish, coming in at October, and going out in February; its highest season is about Christmas. Still, as some cod cast their spawn months earlier than others, a few may be met with in tolerable order throughout the year. A fine fish, in the London season, has been sold for 30s. The Cod on the south-east side of the Bank of Newfoundland are as fine again in flavour as that on the north-west side. Cod is obtained, perhaps, finer in London than in any other city in the world; it is caught on the Dogger Bank, and brought alive in wells, by boats to Gravesend, and forwarded to London still alive, where it is immediately crimped, the be.<t fish being with a. small head and thick at the neck: but what will the “ humanity” folks say to the crimping, which M. Soyer considers greatly to improve cod as well as salmon. In choosing a Cod, see that it rises high, and_ is round and thick about the poll, with a deep pit just behind the head; the body full towards the tail; the sides as if ribbed; the fishSoles.—TladclocJc.— Wldtlng. 41 stiff, red in the gills, and bright in the eyes, else it will not eat firm. Again, press your linger on the body of the fish, when, if it he stale, the impression will remain; if fresh, it will rise again on removal of the pressure. If a cod-fish be hung up for a da}% the eyes being taken out, and their place filled with salt, the fish will eat much firmer, and its flavour will he improved. Cod-fish should he crimped in thin slices, when they will he boiled equally; but if crimped in tldcTc slices, the thin or belly part will be overdone before the thick part is half boiled. Again, thin slices need not be put into the kettle, until the guests are arrived. Enclose a silver spoon in the belly of a cod-fish during the boiling: if it be in good condition, the silver will remain un- coloured, when taken from the fish at table. The Dutch eat stewed and baked cod-fish with oiled butter and lemon-juice. The Norwegian Cod-fishery is stated to employ 5000 boats, Avith 25,000 men; the season commencing with February, and lasting seven or eight weeks. SOLES.—HADDOCK.—WHITING.—LING.—BEEAM. The Sole is principally from the North Sea, but the small-sized caught in shalloAv water, on our coast, are the best: sometimes 1000 pairs are taken at one haul; some are seven pounds each— the older they are, the larger they become. In a haul, perhaps the first ever taken there, in Ballinskillig’s Bay, close in-shore, and not far from Derrynane, there were taken, in October, 1848, 60 soles, weighing 2 cwt.! Soles, when in good season, are of creamy-white on the loAver sides, and thick about the shoulder; the slime on the dark side should be transparent, and that on the lower side frothy. Above all things, avoid soles with a sky-blue tinge. The Haddock is a fine fish, with firm snow-white flesh, and a creamy curd between the flakes; the larger the fish, the firmer it eats; the finest are taken in Dublin Bay, and on the Devon and Cornwall coasts. The large haddocks are in season from June till February; the smaller ones at all times. They should be chosen as cod. In France, whitings are not skinned, but only slit, dipped in flour, fried in very hot dripping, and served without any sauce. The Ling, taken on the Cornish coast, is the best of the whole cod tribe, though we seldom hear of it, except salted. Like the cod, it has a remarkably fine sound; its flesh separates in curdyHints for the Table. 42 flakes, and its rich glutinous skin is delicious; it is in greatest perfection about Christmas, and the larger the ling the better. The sea bream is rather a despised fish, and has been sold as low as half-a-crown per cwt. Its more ordinary flavour may, however, he materially improved by the following mode of dressing it. When thoroughly clean, wipe the fish di-y, but do not take off any of the scales. Then broil it, tm-ning it often, and if the skin cracks, flour it a little to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and scales turn off with- out difficulty; and the muscle beneath, saturated with its own natural juices, which the outside covering has retained, will be found of good flavour.— Yarrell's British Fishes. MULLET. Bed M/ullet.—Great surprise has often been expressed upon the number and cheapness of red mullets in the London market in certain seasons: it arises from a circumstance thus explained, a gentleman in the west of England, noticing that the mackerel and red mullet arrived on the coast together, and that there was a large fishery of the former and none of the latter, endeavoured to find out the reason: he ascertained that the red mullet ob- tained its food from the mackerel, and, consequently, they swam lower; he therefore directed the fishermen to have a deeper seine net, by which means they will be enabled to take both kinds at the same time. Red mullet are most plentiful in May and June, at which time their colours are most vivid, and the fish, as food, in the best condition. The red mullet (soldiers as they have been called), are some- times bought on our western coast for sixpence each; and the large ones (called sergeants), for eighteen-pence. Indeed, so cheap have they been, that it was no uncommon thing to see an epicure taking the liver out of his mullet to apply it as sauce to his John Dory, leaving the flesh to more vulgar palates. What would the Romans have said to this ? Pliny records that one gentleman, Asinius Celer, gave eight thousand nummi (between 64^. and 65Z. sterling) for one mullet. The Romans had mullet cooked in crystal vases, that they might watch the beautiful colours of the fish, varying imder the hand of death, and shooting transiently along to please the eye of epicures. The flesh of mullet is white, firm, and of good flavour; and being free from fat, is easy of digestion. A large mullet may be cut into fillets, and fried, and served with sliced cucumber. The livers are the only sauce to be eaten with mullet; and43 Mullet.—Dory.—Lampreys. Apicius had a method of suffocating the fish in the garum sociorum, and afterwards making a rich sauce of their livers. The cookery books make no distinction in dressing the red and grey mullet; though the former is cooked woodcock fashion, without drawing, so delicate is the fish. The Grey Mullet is, hy no means, a fashionable fish; yet we remember to have been asked Is. Qd. for a couple of small ones by a Brighton fishmonger. The river Arun has, from time im- memorial, been famed for its grey mullet. Sussex is celebrated for six good things:—a Chichester lobster, a Selsey cockle, an Arundel (grey) mullet, a Pulborough eel, an Amberley trout, and a Eye herring. THE DOBT. The Dory is found in greatest abundance on the southern coasts of Devon and Cornwall; it is in best season from Michaelmas to Christmas, but is good all the year round. Just about the collar- bones is the prettiest picking, and there are delicious morsels about the head. Large dories are best boiled; the smaller ones fried. The Dories of Plymouth and Brighton are very fine. The Dory, and, indeed, all sea fish, to be eaten in perfection, should be boiled in sea-water. On one occasion, on Quin’s return from Plymouth to Bath, he sent directions to the laiadlord of the principal inn at Ivybridge to procure one of the finest dories on the day he expected to arrive there; and that it might he di-essed in perfection, he had a cask of sea water strapped behind his carriage; but it unfortunately happened that no dory could be procured; when so annoyed was Quin, that notwithstanding an excellent dinner had been provided for him, he refused to partake of it, or even to enter the inn, and casting his water-cask adrift, proceeded on his journey dinnerless! Quin went so far as to eat the livers of mullet (rejecting the body) as sauce for his Dory. He thought the inhabitants of Ply- mouth ought to be the happiest of mankind, from their abundant supply of dories and mullet; but when he visited Plymouth, he found, to his di.sgust, that although the people had some notion of cooking fish, they were ignorant of the art of melting butter. LAMPEEVS. The Lamprey was a pet fish with the ancients; Antonia, the wife of Drusus, hung the gills of a lamprey with jewels and ear- rings; Licinius Croesus fed his lampreys in a vivarium; and Quintius Hortensius is said to have wept at the death of one of his dear fish. One of our kings, Henry I., died from eating too largely of lampreys; by ancient custom, the city of Gloucester,Hints for the Talle. 44 as a token of their loyaltj’, present a lamprey pie annually at Christinas to the Sovereign; this is sometimes a costly gift, as lampi'eys at that season can scarcely be procured at a guinea a-piece.* The Lamprey has been historically scandalized as the murcEna ■of the Romans, for it lives entirely by suction, and swims close to the surface of the water, and could not, by the nature of its con- struction, feed near the bottom; consequently, it could not be led on the bodies of slaves, as is recorded of those with which the Emperor Augustus was treated; its food (so far as M. Soyer v/as able to learn from examination of some thousands) consists of small water-insects and animalculiE. M. Soyer enters into the question of the celebrated Roman Sauce with great zest; hear the culinary antiquary:— The garutn was the sauce the most esteemed and the most expensive; its composition is unknown. This is a subject well worth the attention of the epicures of the present day; they should subscribe and offer a pre- mium for that which, in their opinion, may resemble it: it is a subject well worthy the attention of the professors of oim imiversities. Perhaps some leaf yet undiscovered, that may have escaped the conflagration of Alexandria, might throw some light upon so interesting a subject. It appears that mushrooms entered greatly into its composition; and that parts of mackerel, or of that species, formed another. The question is, at what time of the year were mushrooms in season there; and if at that period mackerel, or what species of mackerel have soft roes, as I think it probable that they entered into its composition, as an island near Carthagena, where they were caught, was called Scombraria, and that which was prepared by a company in that town, and which was considered the best, was called Garum Sociorum. The great lamprey is comparatively neglected in London, although it may be taken from the Thames. He who has tasted a well-stewed Gloucester lamprey—our Worcester friends must pardon us—a Gloucester lamprey, will almost excuse the royal ■excess.— Quarterly Review. Lampreys are thus dressed at the Hop-pole, Worcester. Cleanse the fish, remove the tough membrane from the back, put the lampreys into a stewpan, and cover them with strong beef gravy; add a dessert-spoonful of mixed allspice, mace, and cloves, in powder, a spoonful of salt, a few grains of Cayenne pepper, a gill of port wine, the same of sherry, and a table-spoonful of horse- radish vinegar. Cover the pan, and stew gently till the fish are tender; then take them out, and add to the same two anchovies beaten to a paste, and the juice of a lemon; boil it up and strain dt; and, if requisite, thicken it with butter and flour. Warm the * From a very useful and interesting work entitled Fish, Mow to ■Choose, Mow to Mress, By Piscator. Printed at Launceston.Wldtehail. 45- lampreys in this sauce before serving. Garnish with slices of lemon and sippets of toasted bread. WHITEBAIT.—SHAD. We quote the following particulars of this delicacy from the Curiosities of London:— To the large taverns at Blackwall and Greenwich gourmets ^ocXt to eat Wliitebait, a delicious little fish caught in the Reach of the- Thames, and directly netted out of the river into the frying-pan. They appeal- about the end of March or early in April, and are taken every flood-tide until September. Pennant describes Wliitebait as esteemed by the loioer order of epicures. If this account be correct, there must have been a strange change in the grade of epicures frequenting Greenwich and Blackwall since Pennant’s days; for at present the fashion of eating Whitebait is sanctioned by the highest authorities, from the com-t of St. James’s in the West to the Lord Mayor and his court in tho East; besides the philosophers of the Eoyal Society; and her Majesty’s Cabinet Ministers, who -wind up the Parlia- mentary session with their “ annual fish dinner,” whither they go in an Ordnance barge, or a Government steamer. Whitebait are taken by a net in a wooden frame, the hose having a very small mesh. The boat is moored in the tideway, and the net fixed to its side, when the tail of the hose, swimming loose, is from time to time handed into the boat, the end untied, and its contents shaken out. Whitebait were thought to be the young of the shad, and were named from their being used as bait in fishing for whitings. By aid of comparative anatomy, Mr. Yarrell, however, proved Whitebait to be a distinct species, Clupea alba. Perhaps the famed delicacy of Whitebait rests as much upon its skilful cookery as upon the freshness of the fish. Dr. Pereira has published tho mode of cooking in one of Lovegrove’s “ bait-kitchens” at ElickwaU. The fish should be dressed within an hour after being caught, or they are apt to cling together. They are kept in water, from which they are taken by a skimmer as required; they are then thrown upon a layer of flom-, con- tained in a large napkin, in which they are shaken imtil completely en- veloped in flour; they are then put into a colander, and all the superfluous flour is removed by sifting; the fish are next thrown into hot lard con- tained in a copper cauldron or stew-pan placed over a charcoal fii-e; in about two minutes they are removed by a tin skimmer, thrown into a colander to drain, and served up instantly, by placing them on a fish- ih-aincr in a dish. Tho rapidity of the cooking process is of the utmost importance; and if it be not attended to, the fish will lose their crispness, and be worthless. At table, lemon juice is squeezed over them, and they are seasoned with Cayenne popper; brown bread and butter is sub- stituted for plain bread; and they are eaten with iced champagne, or punch. Tlie Thames and the Hamble, (which runs into the South- ampton Water,) are the only rivers in England in which white- bait has been taken. Scottish epicures may now enjoy whitebait, in common with those of Blackwall and Greenwich; for it is obtained in abundance46 Hints for the Table. from the Firth of Forth, the stake-nets at South Queensferrj, and Kincardine; and hereafter it will be sent to the Edinburgh mar- ket in such quantities as to render it as profitable as the sperling or smelt fisheiy. Whitebait is caught in profusion in the Bosphorus ; but the sword-fish ranks first with the epicures of Constantinople. The shad of the Thames, the twaite, is little worth; but he of the Severn, the allice, affords a very superior morsel. And should any friend residing on the Severn send you a basket of Allice, have them broiled, and eat them with caper sauce, a la Frav^aise. Shad is much esteemed in Paris, where it is eaten dressed in this fashion. EELS AND TENCH. The Eel differs in taste, according to the river from whence it is taken. Although we have some very fine eels in the river Thames, yet, our principal supply is received from Holland, and the fish which comes from thence are much improved in flavour by the voyage, and even increase in size. They arrive in the river Thames in vessels called eel scootes {schuyts), of which four have been allowed, for centuries, to moor opposite the Custom House, and the others are obliged to remain in Erith Hole until there is room for them, which greatly improves the fish. The value of those imported into Loudon, in 1848, amounted to 132,600^. Whole cargoes are daily sent up the river to be eaten as Thames or Kennett eels at Richmond, Eel-pie Island, &c. “ The Eennett swift for silver eels renowned.” Pope’s Windsor Forest. Eels are, however, to be had in the highest perfection, at Godstow, Salisbury, Anderton, or Overton. A matelotte, in general, must have eels mixed with it: carp alone are not so good as the eels; which require longer cooking than any other fish. The muddy taste of eels, lampreys, and tench, may be dis- charged by par-boiling them in salt and water. Izaak Walton gives an excellent receipt for roasting eels. The Conger Eel, stewed in brown gravy, with a pudding in its belly, or dressed in steaks or cutlets, is excellent; it is also good roasted or baked, or made into soup, ot curried. Eel pies, when hahed, should have the lid removed, and be filled up with cream, which ^vill mix with the gravy, and make a most delicious sauce. Tench is delicious when in prime order; it may be either plain boiled or fried ; or made into water souchy; or stewed with eels. Tench was formerly recommended as a sovereign remedy for47 Trout. jaundice; and it is probable that the golden colour of the fish, when in high season, induced the ignorant to suppose that it was given by Providence, as a signature to point out its medicinal quality.* TEOXJT. Trout come into season in April; but they can scarcely be said to be in perfection until May and June; from which time they continue in season till September. They vary much in flavour : the silvery fish, with yellowish pink flesh, is delicious; the dusky trout, with white flesh, is almost tasteless; and the black trout is a worthless, insipid fish. The trout, when in good condition, is short and thick, with a small head, and a broad tail; the sides and head marked with red and purple spots, with the belly of a silvery whiteness. The Driffield river (the Hull), in the East Riding of Yorkshire, produces the largest trout in England; although the Thames occasionally yields very fine ones. The Fordwich trout, of Izaak Walton, is the salmon trout; and its character for affording “ rare good meat,” besides the circum- stance of its being really an excellent fish, second only to the salmon, is greatly enhanced, iic doubt, by the opportunity of eating it very fresh. Fordwich is two miles north-east of Can- terbmy; and specimens of the salmon-trout may be seen exposed for sale in the fishmongers’ shops at Ramsgate during the season. The salmon-trout is also occasionally taken in the Medway, by fishermen who work long nets for smelts, during the autumn and winter. Vast quantities of this fish are brought to the London market, chiefly from Scotland, and when in high season, are but little inferior in flavom- to the true salmon. Thames trout are occasionally taken weighing 161b., and from 8 to 121b. is a common weight. There is no fish in Britain which can equal them in flavour and in goodness. The Hampshire trout are very celebrated; but those from the Colne and the Carshalton river are preferred by many person.s. Small trout in Scotland and Cumberland are made very palatable by dredging oatmeal over them, and frying them in fresh butter. The red trout from the lake near Audermath, on the St. Gothard road, are the very finest in Europe. The trout from the lake of Como are also much recommended. The hamlet of Simplon is also celebrated for its delicious trout; and at the post- house there, thQ de chamois are excellent. * This doctrine of signatures subsisted for a considerable time among medical practitioners, and gave rise to the names of many plants, from the resemblance of their leaves and roots to the form of many parts of the human body; such as lung-wort, hver-wort, spleen-wort, &c.—Hunter.Hints for the Table. 4,8 It would be worth the trouble of a journey to Austria to a gov/rmet, to eat the delicious trout there. They are the fish bred in the snow-fed rivulets of the Alps, brought from thence, and prepared for the table in stews, perforated with holes, sunk in some running stream. They are carefully fed; and when re- quired for the table, make but one leap from the cold water into the saucepan. They are served either fried, or simply boiled, in their own dark blue coats, beautifully spotted with red; and when in good condition, have all the lirmness of the white of an egg. Trout, from half a pound to a pound weight, if split open, and sprinkled with cayenne pepper and salt, and broiled, are excel- lent for breakfast. The following are two choice old receipts for dressing trout:— “ Broj/led Trouts.” (1667.) Take out the entrails, cut the fish across the side, and wash them: fill the cuts with thyme, marjoram, and parsley, chopped fine; set the gridiron on a charcoal fire, rub the bars with suet, and lay the trouts on, basting them with fresh butter, imtil they are well “ broyled.” Serve with a sauce of butter and vinegar, and the yolk of an egg. beaten well together. To Stew Trout.—Clean and cut them, and broil them on a charcoal fire; then melt in a stewpan, half a pound of fresh butter, a little beaten cinnamon, and some vinegm-; put in the fish, cover it up, and stew it over a chafing-dish for half an hour; then squeeze a lemon on the fish, beat up the sauce, and dish for service. This is the old English fashion. The Italian stows his fish with white wine, cloves, and mace, nutmegs sliced, and a little ginger. The French add a slice or two of bacon. SMELTS.—GUDGEONS.—FLOUNDEES.—BAKBEL. Smelts are caught in vast quantities on the shores of the Scheldt. Tlie name smelt is Dutch, from the fish seeming to melt away and disappear, when disturbed by the fisherman. Smelts are served upon a silver skewer run through the gills. Smelts are now supplied in London in much greater abundance than formerl}^ as large numbers are brought from Holland, but the}' are not considered so fine as those of our own coast. London formerly used to be supplied from the Medway at Kochester, where smelts were considered the best; a custom existed for t^ie Corporation of llochester to present the Lord Mayor of London, on his visit to that town, on occasion of the triennial visitation to Yantlet Creek, with a dish of smelts. Smelts were never known in the Dublin market till 1848, when they were received from an enterprising Englishman on the west coast of Ireland. Gudgeons, if fried of a nice pale brown, almost come up to the smelt in flavour. At Bath they are little, if at all, inlerior to the most delicate smelts. They occur in the Parisian cartes a diner.Herrings.—Pike. 49 Thames Flounders are by some thought to be insipid and flavourless; to prevent which, put a handful of salt in the water wherein they are boiled. Although barbel are rejected as a fish not fit to be eaten, they are by no means to be despised, if dressed as follows; the fish should be well cleaned, and the back-bone taken out, and the sides cut into slices, thrown into salt and water for an hour or two, and then spitchcocked as eels.—Jesse s Angler’s Rambles. HERUINGS. The flesh of herrings is so delicate, that no cook should attempt to dress them otherwise than by broiling or frying. Let the herring be placed upon the gridiron, over the clearest of fires, and when sufficiently embrowned, let him instantly be transferred to the hottest of plates; eat him with mustard-sauce, in the kitchen if you can. The male, or soft-roed herrings, are always the best, when in proper season. Our herring-fisheries are now a valuable property, in which altogether from two to three millions of money are sunk, about half a million being sunk in boats, nets, and lines alone. In many parts of Scotland a hundred herrings can be purchased for sixpence. The Scotch-cured herrings have a large sale oh the Continent, and in some places are even superseding the Dutch. Red herrings should be very bright and shining, like bur- nished metal, and stiff; if limp and dull in colour, and soft about the belly, they are ill-cured, and will never eat well. Mustard much improves red herrings. So great a rarity within the pi’esent century was an English- cured herring, that a story is told of Admiral Rodney, when dining at Carlton House, congratulating the Prince of Wales upon seeing what he thought to be a dish of Yarmouth bloaters upon the table ; adding, that if the Prince’s example was followed by the upper ranks only, it would be the means of adding twenty thousand hardy seamen to the navy. The Prince observed that he did not deserve the compliment, as the herrings had not been cured by British hands; “but,” he continued, “henceforward I shall order a dish of English-cured herrings to be purchased at any expense, to appear as a standing dish at this table. We shall call it a Rodney; and, under that designation, what true patriot will not follow my example ?” PIKE, CAKE, PEECH, AND GUENAED. Pike are capital if bled in the tail and gills as soon as caught; they die much whiter, which is a comfort to themselves, and look better at table.—Quarterly Review. EHints for the Table. 50 A Medway pike, after feeding on smelts, is a first-rate delicacy; and a well-fed river pike is capital. Pike were formerly very rare, as may be inferred from the fact, that in the latter part of the thirteenth century, Edward I. fixed the value of pike higher than that of fresh salmon, and more than ten times greater than that of the best turbot or cod. They were so rare in the reign of Henry VIII. that a large one was sold for double the price of a house-lamb in Februaiy, and a pickerel, or small pike, for more than a fat capon.—(YarrelVs British Fishes.) This rarity has been attributed to these fish having then been recently introduced into England; but pike were in our markets as early as the reign of Edward I. Almost every angler has his pike story. We remember Alderman Ansley used to relate that during his Mayoralty, a gigantic pike was taken upon his estate in Huntingdonshire, and straightway forwarded to the Mansion House : a party was invited to eat the fish; but his Lord- ship’s kitchen could not furnish a dish long enough to contain it; however, after much search, there was found among the plate of one of the City companies’ halls a silver dish to hold the pike, the bringing in of which by two footmen, and setting the same upon the table, before the Lord Mayor and his guests, was attended with much pomp and circumstance. In illustration of bow much depends upon the dressing of fish, it may be observed, that a stewed carp is really a splendid dish, a boiled carp one of the worst brought to table. Some of the finest and oldest carp are found in the windings of the Spree, in the tavern gardens of Charlottenburg, the great resort of the Sunday strollers from Berlin. Visitors are in the habit of feeding them with bread-crumbs, and collect them together by ringing a bell, at the sound of which shoals of the fish may be seen popping their noses upwards from the water. Perch should be taken from a bright river, or transparent lake; if from a pond, they should he kept in some rapidly run- ning river, till the clear stream has washed away all weedy flavour. When this precaution has not been taken, the fish and its soup are redolent of mud. Perch is so delicate and easy of digestion, that it is particu- larly recommended to those invalids who have weak debilitated stomachs. It is eaten in high perfection in South Holland, in water-souchies, or plain boiled, served with white piquante sauce, and white and brown bread and butter, flanked by a rich and sweetish red wine. Perch arc also excellent fried in batter. The French make the head of the carp the morceau d'honneur, to be given to the highest guest, and the back the next best part. The head and belly of the fresh-water Bream are most esteemed.51 Sturgeon.—Caviare. The Bream, by the way, is much less prized than of old. Accord- ing to Chaucer— “ Full many a patrich had he in mewc, And many a breme and many a luce* in stew.” An old French proverb runs: “ He who hath breams in his ponds may bid his friends welcome.” The piper-gurnard, of a brilliant red colour, is most delicious. Even Quin has borne testimony to the merits of a west-country piper. MACKEEEL. When Mackerel ai’e out of condition, a black horizontal band runs along a little above the lateral line, and joins the black bands together from the tail to just below the termination of the second back fin; this is termed by the fishermen “ the rogue’s mark,” and it disappears as the fish improves in health: a long,, thin-made mackerel is ever an ill-tasted fish. Mackerel which are taken in May and June are superior in flavour to those taken either earlier in the spring, or in autumn. They are best a la maitre d’hotel. To enjoy the flavour of mackerel, they should not be washed, but wiped clean and dry with a cloth. The price of mackerel in May, 1807, in the Billingsgate mar- ket, was as follows:—Forty guineas for every 100 of the fii’st cargo, which made the fish come to 7s. a-piece! The next sup- plies were also exorbitant, though much less so than the first, fetching 13Z. per 100, or 2s. a-piece. The very next year the- former deficiencies were more than made up, for it appears that during the season 1808, mackerel were hawked about the streets- of Dover at 60 for a shilling, or five for a penny; while they - so blockaded the Brighton coast, that on one night it became impossible to land the multitudes taken, and at last both fish and nets went to the bottom. It is a singular instanee of fluctuation in price, that in the year 1807 such an article should thus com- mand just four hundred and twenty times the price which it. fetched in the following year. THE STUEGEON.—CAVIABE. Sturgeon is an excellent fish, if firm; but, when it is soft and flabby, do not attempt to make anything good of it; or it will become red, and have a bad flavour. The sturgeon is of very great importance in an economical point of view, to the various nations under the Russian sway. Caviare is made from the roe; isinglass from the bladder; the- * Pike or jack. E 2 ’I! || 52 Hints for the Table. I ilesli is eaten fresh, salted, or preserved with aromatics; and even '* the cord which pervades the spine, constitutes a liussian delicacy i named veirga. ! Caviare is consumed in vast quantities all over the Russian j empire; it is also sent to Italy; Germany and France take con- ! siderable quantities, and England a little. Caviare is a shining . brown substance, in small grains, exactly like brambleberries nearly ripe. It is obtained from sturgeon, which are taken in March, in millions, on their spawning beds in the mouth of the j Danube, the Dnieper, the Don, or the Volga, where both nets and hooks are employed against the fish. The membrane of the roe being removed, the grains are washed with vinegar, or the cheap white wines of the country; next dried in the air, salted, put into a bag and pressed, and then packed in casks. After all, says a tourist. Caviare is not worth the money: it is a bitter, cucumber- tasted stulf; is eaten raw with oil and lemon-juice, and tastes worse than Hamburgh herrings or Swedish salmon. It is, how- ever, one of the most valuable articles of Russian trade, the sales reaching annually two millions sterling. An inferior caviai'e is made I'rom the roes of other large fish. Caviare is increasing in estimation in this country, if we may ) judge by the increased importation of it. ' Caviare was an old English luxury; for Charles II., when he ! laid the foundation-stone of the Royal Exchange, was regaled ' “ with a chine of beef, fowls, hams, dried tongues, anchovies, I caviare, and wines.” I ( MISCELLANEOUS. i The Plaice, when in good order, is a most delicious fish, I though of no great reputation. To get rid of its wateiy softness, i it should be well beaten with a rolling-pin, before it is dressed. I Skate should be soaked in salt and water, to extract the I rankness which it has when dressed too fresh, but which vanishes i if the fish be kept a day or two. Skate is absurdly rejected by ! some persons. If this fish be hung up for a day or two, then ; cut into slices, broiled, and eaten with butter, it will be delicious. I The female skate is more delicate than the male. The Basse is highly extolled by Pliny and Ovid, but rarely appears at the table of wealthy moderns. Yet, a Cornishraan i will eat a basse boiled, baked, fried, stewed, or made into a pie. j The wholesomest sea-fish are the common, speckled, and green ; cod; haddock, pout, whiting, pollack, whiting pollack, hake, ; forked hake, and ling: the fiesh of all these is white and divides into flakes, and is excellent for invalids. The Hake, though rarely admitted to the table of the wealthy,53 Opter-eating. is excellent when cut into cutlets, covered with egg and bread- crumbs, and fried: its best season is from Michaelmas to Chiist- juas. The Ituffe makes a dainty dish, when nicely fried: it is in season from Midsummer to March. The flesh of the sea-cow, found in the vast rivers of Brazils, resembles fresh pork, and is excellent. Sausages are made ot it, and sent to Portugal as a great delicacy. OTSTEE3. Oysters are recommended by the doctors where great nourish- ment and easy digestion are required; their valuable quality being the quantity of gluten they contain. There is an old prejudice that oysters are only good in those months which include the letter r; an error which was refuted so long ago as the year 1804, when M. Balaine contrived the means of sending to Paris oysters fresh, and in the best possible order, at all seasons alike. Balaine's predecessor in this art was Apicius, who is said to have supplied Trajan with fresh oysters at all seasons of the year. The Homans, according to Pliny, made Ostrecirii, or loaves of bread baked with oysters. Oysters were eaten by the Greeks; and fattened in pits and ponds by the Romans. The latter obtained the finest from Ru- izipics, now Sandwich, in Kent. The Roman epicures iced their oysters before eating them; and the ladies used the calcined shell as a cosmetic and depillatory. In Paris is published a hroclmre entitled Le Manuel de VAmateur des Huitres, in which the British oysters are acknow- ledged to be the finest. The London market is principally supplied with Oysters from the beds of Whitstable, Rochester, Milton, Colchester, Burnham, and Queenborough, all artificial beds, furnishing natives. Since the introduction of steamboats and railways, considerable quan- tities of sea-oysters are bi'ought from Falmouth and H el lord, in Cornwall; from the coast of Wales, the Isle of Wight, and neighbourhood of Sussex, and even from Ireland and Scotland, after the winter sets in, as before they would not keep fresh when brought from long distances. The sea-oyster is often, before being brought to market, kept for a time in artificial beds, in order to improve its flavour. The most esteemed oysters are those of the small, ovate, but deep-shelled variety, called Natives, among those of the river Crouch, or Burnham oysters, are pre- eminent for their marine flavour, probably, on account of the facilities for importing them in fine condition. In London, the chief consumption of common Oysters is from the 4th of AugustHints for the Table. 54. to January ; and of natives, from October to March. Tlie con- sumption is said to be greatest during the hottest months, after the commencement of the oyster season: the wanner the weather, the more oysters are consumed. Oysters of good repute are fished in the neighbourhood ot tlie Channel Islands, those on the Jersey bank being of large size. The best Scottish Oysters are procured near Burntisland, opposite Portobello, and at Pres- tonpans. The Oysters of Laxey, off the Isle of Man, are fine and well-flavoured. The Irish coasts produce Oysters in abundance, and of good quality. In the west, the most famous are Burton Bindon’s oysters, which are highly estimated in Dublin. The most renowned of the Irish Oyster fisheries is, however, that of Carlingford. To fatten Oysters, place them on their fiat sides in a pan or tub, which fill to the brim with water; if fresh, add a handful of salt. The water should be changed once a day, and the oysters should be fed by a handful of flour, barley-meal, or oatmeal being thrown into the water; to which may be added the same quantity ■ of wheaten-bran: in five or six days they will be perfectly fattened, and fit to eat. In one of Swift’s Letters, we find the following recipe for boil- ing oysters:—Take four oysters, wash them clean, that is, wash their shells clean; then put your o}’sters into an earthen pot with their hollow sides down, then put this pot covered into a great kettle with water, and so let them boil. Your oysters ai'e thus boiled in their own liquor, and not mixed with water. There is no place in the world (says Charles Mackay, in his very interesting Letters from the United States,) where there are such fine Oysters as in New York:—they are Fine in flavour, and of a size unparalleled in the oyster-beds of "Whit- stable, Ostend, or the Eocher de Cancale. Nor has the gift of oysters been bestowed upon an ungrateful people. If one may judge from appear- jinces, the dehcacy is highly rehshed and esteemed by ^ classes, from the millionaire in the Fifth Avenue to the boy in the Bowery and the German •and Irish emigprants in their own peculiar quarters of the city, which (soit dit en passant) seem to monopolize all the tilth to he found in Manhattan. In walking up Broadway by day or by night—but more especially by night—the stranger cannot but be struck by the great number of “ Oyster Saloons,” “Oyster and Coffee Saloons,” and “Oyster and Lager Beer Saloons” that solicit him at every turn to stop and taste. These saloons— many of them very handsomely htted up—arc, like the drinking saloons in •Germany, situated in vardts or cellars, with steps from the street; but, unlike their German models, they often form them in imderground stories of stately commercial palaces of granite, brown stone, iron, and white marble. In these palaces, as in the hotels, oysters are to be had at all hours, either from the shell, as they are commonly eaten in England, or ■cooked in twenty—or, for aU I know to the contrary, in forty or a hundred—different ways. Oysters’ pickled, stewed, baked, roasted, fined, •and scolloped; oysters made into soups, patties, and puddings; oystersLobsters.—Trmons. 55 witli condiments and without condiments; oysters for breakfast, dinner, and supper; oysters without stint or limit—fresh as the fresh air, and nhnost as abundant—are daily offered to the palates of the Manhattancse, and appreciated with aU the gratitude which such a bounty of nature ought to inspire. The epicures of Cape Town journey 300 miles, to Mossel Bay, to enjoy a feast of the delicious oysters found there. A humorous writer in the North British Review remarks:— It has been often said that he must have been a bold man who &st ate an oyster. This is said in ignorance of the legend which assigns the first act of oyster-eating to a very natm'al cause. It is related that a man walking one day picked up one of these savom-y bivalves, just as it was in the act of gaping. Observing the extreme smoothness of the interior of the shell, he insinuated his finger between them that he might feel their shining surface, when suddenly they closed upon the exploring digit, with a sensation less pleasurable than he anticipated. The prompt withdrawal of his finger was scarcely a more natmral movement than its transfer to his mouth. It is not very clear why people when they hurt their fingers put them into their mouth; but it is very certain that they do; and in this case the result was most fortunate. The owner of the finger tasted oyster juice for the first time, as the Chinaman in EHa’s essay having burnt his finger first tasted crackling. The savour was delicious; he had made a great discovery; so he picked up the oysters, forced open the shells, ban- queted upon their contents, and soon brought oyster-eating into fashion. And unlike most fashions, it has never gone and is never hkely to go out. LOBSTERS AND CRABS.—PRAWNS AND SHRIMPS. Lobsters and Crabs sbould not be chosen by their size: for a thin crab will appear as large as a fat one, from the stomach being formed on a kind of skeleton, and, therefore, not falling in when empty. The heaviest are the best, and those of middling size are sweetest. The speculation in Lobsters is very great. Thus, suppose 2000 lobsters to be received in London on a Monday in May, and the}"^ would probably sell for 80^.; whereas, if10,000 should be brought into the market on the following day, they would sell for only 160^.! In 1816, one fish-salesman in London is known to have lost 1200^. per week, for six weeks, by lobsters! To stew a Lobster in the Irish way, cut, break, and pick a boiled lobster, and put it into a stewpan with a mixture of mus- tard, vinegar, and cayenne pepper, and a good-sized piece of floured butter; cover it, and simmer five minutes, when throw in a glass of sherry or Madeira; boil up, and serve garnished with sliced lemon. In Ireland a lobster is thus cooked in a dis- patcher, over a spirit lamp, before the company. Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his Irish Sketch-hooh, greatly extols this dish: “ porter is commonly drunk with it, and whisky punch afterwards.”Hints for the Table. 56 Choose a crab, dead or alive, by the redness of the shell, and by its weight. The shell of a lobster should be hard and firm; when boiled, the spring of the tail should be strong and elastic. Hot Crah.^—Pick the Crab, cut the solid part into small pieces, and mix the inside with a little rich gravy or cream, and season- ing ; then add some curry paste, and fine bread-crumbs; put all into the shell of the crab, and finish in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. The land-crabs of the West Indies far excel those of our coasts in delicious flavour. Prawns and Shrimps should be elastic, the flesh moist, and the skin well filled out. The ancients esteemed the fish of the razor-shell, when cooked, ns delicious food; and Dr. Lister thought them nearly as rich and palatable as the lobster. In England and Scotland they are now rarely used for the table; but in Ireland they are much eaten during Lent. Mussels, in England, are chiefly eaten by the humbler classes ; in Lancashire they have been planted in the river Wyre like oysters, where they grow fat and delicious; as likewise in Shrop- shire and Wales. In the neighbourhood of Kochelle, too, the3' are fattened in salt and fresh-water ponds. In “ the Forme of Cuiy,” (1390,) is a receipt for dressing “ Muskels in brewet,” and also one for making “ Cawdel of Muskels.” Scallops abound on the coasts of Portland and Purbeck, in Doi-setshire, and near Yarmouth, in ^Norfolk. They were exten- sively used in the reigns of Henry VIII. and Elizabeth, and are still considered a luxury; in some parts, they are pickled and barrelled. Most shell-fish are veiy indigestible, and from the indisposition caused occasionally by eating them, the idea of their being poi- sonous has arisen. O^'sters, when eaten in large quantities, often cause great disturbance: shrimps and mussels have produced death; but whether from their indigestibility, or poisonous qualitj', is more doubtful than is commonly supposed. There can be little doubt that the mussel, like the oyster, and, indeed, like most other edible animals, is comparatively unfit for the food of man, at certain periods. Pennant, however, I'emarks, that for one who is affected by eating mussels, a hundred remain uninjured. It is stated, that lobsters or other shell-fish will be improved in flavour, and will lose much of their hardness and indiges- tibility, if killed before they are boiled. In Barbadoes the fish of the beef-shell are cooked for the table; the}’' are very firm eating, short and well tasted.Water-souchy.—Sardines.—Anchovies. 5T TVATEH-SOUCHT.* There are two methods of making Water-souchy. It may not only be made clear, but, by sacrificing a good many fish, stewing them well with parsley, roots, &c., as usual, and then pulping them through a sieve, an excellent <yur6e is produced, which makes a delicious accompaniment to the large and entire fish served therein. SAKDINE3.—ANCHOVIES.—PILCHARDS. The Sardine, the delicious little fish which the gourmets of Paris so much delight in, when preserved in oil, and sent to their capital in tin boxes, is still more exquisite when eaten fresh on the shores which it frequents. The Sardine is caught in immense quantities along the southern coast of Brittany, and on the western shore of Finisterre, as far noi’thward as Brest. It comes into season about the middle of June. The preserving and boxing for Paris is almost all done at Nantz, whither the fish are carried for the purpose. A large quantity are also salted. They are caught with neb from 12 to 15 feet wide, and 400 or 500 feet long. The genuine Gorgona Anchovy is of small size, silvery, and rather flat, the line of the back slightly curved; the flesh varies with age: if three months old, it will be pale; if six. months old, rather pink; and if twelve months old, a beautiful deep pink colour. The scales separate from the surface with so much ease, that it is a common notion that the anchov_y is not possessed of this integument. In eating the fish, the head must be taken off, on account of its bitterness, a quality which has obtained for this species the name of enchrasicolus, from a. strange idea that the gall-bladder is in the head. Anchovies are closely imitated by the French merchants, by curing Sardines in red brine, and packing them in wine casks. Sardines are, however, flatter and larger than anchovies. When perfectly fresh, the former are accounted excellent fish; but, if kept for any time, they entii-ely lose their flavour and become quite insipid. Pilchards should be eaten as fresh as possible; they have a fine curdy flavour if dressed when just taken from the nets, but they acquire an oily taste in a few hours after death. * Water-souchy was formerly as fashionable a tavern dish as white-bait is at present. We remember a vast inn at Dorking, once celebrated for its water-souchy: it originally bore the sign of the Chequers, but was- changed at the llestoration to the Old King’s Head.Hints for the Table. 58 Meats. It has been computed that 1071b. of butchers’ meat only, that is, beef, mutton, veal, and lamb, are consumed by each individual, of «very age, in London annually. In Paris, only 851b. or 861b. are consumed by each person. Joints of meat should be hung knuckle downwards, to keep the gravy in the driest part. The surest mode of rendering meat or poultry tender is to wi’ap it in a cloth, and expose it the evening before cooking to a gentle and constant heat, such as the hearth of a fire-place. Meat sprinkled with, or immersed in, liquid chloride of lime for an instant, and then hung up in the air, will keep for some time, without the slightest taint, and no flies will attack it. Tainted meat, fish, game, &c., may be rendered sweet by sprink- ling them with the mixture. The only effectual method of removing the taint of meat by charcoal, is first to wash the joint several times in cold water; it should then be covered with cold water in large quantity, and several pieces of charcoal, red hot, should be thrown into the water, when somewhat hot; and the boiling of the meat proceeded with. A common test of the quantity of salt necessary to add to water, in making brine for pickling meat, is to continue to add salt until an egg will swim in it. This, however, is an imperfect test of the strength of the brine, since an egg will float in a saturated solution of salt and water, and will also float, if, to the same saturated solution, a bulk of pure water equal to twice the bulk of the latter be added. According to Guy Lussac, oz. of salt are necessary to saturate an imperial pint of water. This is important, since the efl[icacy of brine in preserving meat de- jrends very much upon getting a solution of salt at the exact point of saturation. It may be as well to add, that pork salted in brine kept in a leaden tank absorbs the poisonous metal. The death of Capt. Ennis, of the Tigress, in 1848, is attributed to such an acci- dental cause. VENISON. Venison is often spoiled bj'^ want of precaution in killing it. It is impossible for meat to keep, that is hunted three, four, or even five hours, which is too often the case with venison. The red deer of Dartmoor were destroyed in the time of the grandfather of the present Duke of Bedford, upon a petition of the farmers, on account of the injury done to their crops. Staghounds -were sent from Woburn, and the race was extirpated. So great59 Sirloin of Beef , was the slaughter, that only the haunches were saved, and tlio rest given to the dogs.* Mutton gravy is preferable to that made with beef, for venison : it should be seasoned only with salt. A lamp-dish and water-plates are almost indispensable for the full enjoyment of venison. In Ceylon, the natives cover down newly-killed venison with honey, in large earthen pots; these are not opened for three years, and the meat so preserved is said to be of exquisite flavour. BEEF. The Sirloin of Beef is commonly said to have been named from a loin of beef knighted by Charles II.; and at Friday Hill, in Essex, they show a table upon which the ceremony was per- formed ; but the story is much older: for Fuller, in his Eccle- siastical History, relates of King Henry VIII. at the Abbey of Reading, “ A sirloin of beef was set before him, so knighted, saith tradition, by this King Henry.” A sirloin of beef should not weigh more than 201b. or 241b.: a larger piece cannot be well roasted; the time it requires causing the outside to be too much done, while the middle remains raw. That part of a rump of beef which eats best boiled, is also best when roasted. When the fat slice is taken off, remember that the narrow side is infinitely the best meat. Salt Round of Beef is a magnificent specimen of this class; yet how often do we see it standing in a dish to get cold, the dish filled with the gravy that runs from it. To prevent this loss, M. Soyer hit upon the following expedient:—Fill two large tubs with cold water, into which throw a few pounds of rough ice, and when the round is done, throw it, cloth and all, into one of the tubs of ice-water; let remain one minute, when take out and put it into the other tub; fill the first tub again with water, and continue the above process for about twenty minutes; then set it upon a dish, leaving the cloth on until the next day, or until quite cold; when opened, the fat will be as white as possible, besides having saved the whole of the gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more fre- quently changed: the same mode would be equally successful with the aitch-bone. When a warm round of beef is sent to the larder, do not forget to turn the cut side downwards, so as to let all the gravy run to that part which you intend to eat cold. * In 1837, Earl Spencer presented, for the use of tlie Eoyal Parks, 783 head of deer, comprising selections from the most approved breeds; which have been distributed at Windsor, Hampton Court, Bushy, Richmond, and Greenwich.60 Hints for the Table. Welsh beef (observes Dr. Hunter,) is ready at a moment’s warning, to go upon actual service. It is a little armj' of itself, when flanked by mustard and vinegar. STEAKS AND CHOPS. How many considerations are requisite to produce a good Rump-steak! as the age, the country, and the pasture of the beef; the peculiar cut of the rump, at least, the fifth from the commencement; the nature of the fire; the construction and elevation of the gridiron; the choice of shalot, perchance; the masterly precision of the oyster-sauce, in which the liquid is duly flavoured with the fish. It were better if pepper and salt were interdicted from j^our broiling steak : and tongs only should be used in turning it. If left too long on the fire, the error of all bad cooks, the meat will be hai-d and juiceless. If sauce be used, it should be made hot before it is added to the gravy of the steak. People who want to enjoy a steak should eat it with shalots and tarragon. So says Mr. Cobbett; adding, that an orthodox clergyman told him that he and six others once ate some beef- steaks with shalots and tarragon, and that they voted unani- mously that beef-steaks were never so eaten before. But this is not orthodox cookery. What strange I’ancies have some epicures. Asafoetida will be remembered by its garlic-like smell; and Dr. Reece was accus- tomed to enjoy a steak with tincture of asafoetida poured over it for sauce! A mutton chop with shalot, is a nice tavern relish: but its perfection has disappeared with the famous Ofile}', of Henrietta- street. Covent Garden, who lived before the days of gas-cookeiy. To enjoy this relish at home, mince the shalot, and warm it in a little good gravy, which pour over the chop when broiled. Soyer's New Mutton Chop.—^Trini a middling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops half an inch in thickness ndth a saw, n-ithout at all making use of a knife (the sawing them off jagging the meat and causing them to eat more tender), then trim them, season well with salt and pepper, place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fhe, turning them three or four times; they would require ten minutes’cooking; when done, dress them upon a hot dish, spread a small piece of butter over each (if approved of), and serve: by adding half a tablespoonful of Soyer’s Gentlemen’s or Ladies’ Sauce to each chop when serving, and turning it over two or three times, produces an excellent entrie; the bone keeping the gravy in whilst cook- ing, it is a very great advantage to have chops cut after the above method. At home, when I have a saddle of mutton, I usually cut two or three suck chops, wliich I broil, rub mattre d'hotel, butter over, and serve ■with fried potatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle the next day for a joint. The above are also very excellent, well-seasoned and dipped into egg and bread-crumbs pre'vious to broiling. Lamb chops may be cut precisely the same, but require a few minutes’ less broiling. You must remark that by this plan the fat and lean are better divided, and you can enjoy both;61 Teal.—Mutton. whilst the other is a lump of meat near the bone and fat at the other end, which pai'tly melts in cooking, and is often burnt by the flame it makes; the new one not being divided at the bone, keeps the gravy in admirably. If well sawed, it should not weigh more than the ordinary one, being about half the thickness.—The Modem Housewife. VEAL. Veal is perhaps move used in the French Kitchen than any other meat. In England, there is no better show of veal than at Oiim bridge, on market-day. Ude considers a sirloin of vetd far preferable to a fillet, than which nothing is drier. That part of veal is always best for fricandeaux, which is inter- mixed with fat. MUTTON. Prime mutton is at least five years old, has a very brown outer skin, very small nerves, and small grain, and yields brown | . ... I In Earl Cowper’s establishment, mutton is never killed till it | is six years old; and this meat is very superior both in quality |!: and flavour. | Mutton killed in Leadenhall market, and preserved in a cask 4 of sugar, has been eaten in India, after a six months’ voyage, as fresh as the day it was placed on the shambles. i|j| The Dartmoor sheep, which produces the esteemed Oakhamp- ton mutton, is a small breed, weighing about 141b. per quarter. !| Mutton to imitate venison should be five or six years old, else |!! the light colour will discover the deception. ilji The saddle of mutton is the most uneconomical joint from the butcher’s shop ; considering the little meat to be cut from it, and ■ the great waste in skin, fat, and bone. The amateur of tender meat will find the under fillets most excellent. A leg of mutton should never be spitted, as the spit will let out the gravy, and leave un unsightly perforation just as you are 1, cutting into the pope’s eye. :'j’ A fillet of mutton, salted for three days, boned, and then , stuffed, half roasted, and stewed in gravy, is an economical luxury. A stewed shoulder of mutton IS excellent. And a roast neck of mutton is a fit dinner for a prince; so thought George IV. f A boiled shoulder of mutton and a boiled duck ai’e excellent ll dishes for a bachelor’s dinner. A broiled blade-bone of mutton is a relishing supper dish. The father of the late Duke of Devonshire had one got ready ! lor him every night at Erookes’s Club-house. i| Lamb is more exquisitely dressed in the Turkish Kitchen than j in that of any other country. 1 1Hints for the Table. 62 POEK.—HAMS. The Berkshire breed of pigs is one of the best in England. Even the cottagers’ pigs in the Windsor Forest district are of a superior description: bacon is the principal food of the labourers, and they are good judges of its qualities. Pork, however dressed, is always unwholesome; yet, if cooked in the French fashion, the stimulant of a sauce makes it aperient, and, of course, less indigestible than when dressed plainly. Pork, goose, duck, and such oily meats, are more digestible when eaten cold than hot. The delicacy of a roasting-pig can only be ensured by his being nurtured on mother’s milk, exclusively, from his birth to his dying day. The most delicate rabbits are fattened in the same manner. The head of a sucking-pig, split, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and deviled, is most relishing. Apples boiled, and mixed with beans and meal, are said to cause a pig to increase ten pounds a week in weight, and render the flesh of the most delicious flavour. The old method of hrawning a young boar was by shutting him up in a small room, in harvest-time, feeding him with nothing but sweet whey, and giving him every morning clean straw to lie upon; and before Christmas he was sufiiciently brawned, and proved fat, wholesome, and sweet. Much of the superiority of York hams is attributed to the fineness and cleanness of the Yorkshire salt. The hams of Bayonne (as they are improperly called,) are cured at Pau, in the Lower Pyrenees; where also is carried on an extensive trade in the smoked legs of geese. Spanish hog-meat and Westphalia hams are said to owe much of their peculiar excellence to the swine being fed on beech-mast, which our limited forests cannot to any extent allow. It is said that a peck of acorns a day, with a little bran, will make a hog . increase one pound in weight daily, for two months together. Westphalia hams are prepared in November and March. The Germans place them in deep tubs, which they cover with layers of salt and saltpetre, and with a few laurel-leaves. They are lel’t four or five days in this state, and are then covered with strong brine. In three weeks they are taken out, and soaked twelve hours in well water; lastly, are then exposed for three weeks to the smoke produced by burning the juniper-bush. Not only are the smoked hams of the bear much prized, but the paws are great delicacies. The other flesh sometimes re- sembles beef, and is excellent. If a ham be boiled with veal and savoury herbs, their juices will insinuate themselves between the fibres of the ham, afterTo Dress a Ham. 6a having dislodged the salt, by which means the meat is enriched and made tender. At first sight, this will appear an extravagant mode of boiling a ham; but it should be recollected, that the broth will serve the charitable purposes of the family, and cannot be considered as lost. In Germany, a pint of oak sawdust is put into the boiler with each ham. To preserve the rich flavour of a ham, it should be braized; the braize will afterwards serve as a rich brown sauce, or flavouring. York House, Bath, has long been noted for the fine flavour of the hams dressed there, as follows. After being cleaned, the ham is soaked in warm water long enough to remove the outside skin; it is then trimmed, and placed in a stewpan of s%ceet-ioort, and slowly cooked, when the ham will be of superior flavour to that given in France by dressing it in champagne. About fifty years ago, some American exquisites boiled ham in Madeira wine. This was an expensive luxury which met with little encourage- ment. It took its rise from an incident which occurred in Prussia. Frede- rick the Great once condescended to partake of a festival prepared for him by one of his courtiers, and among many dishes of exquisite flavour, ho was particidarly struck by that of a ham. He partook of it copiously, accompanying each mouthful with great praise, not only of the meat, but of the cook who had prepared it. A short time afterwards, his majesty directed a ham to be cooked that should have the same flavour as the one he had so much enjoyed. On being told how it had been boiled, he ex- pressed astonishment at the novel method; yet, not to lose himself the pleasure he had promised himself, ordered the cook to apply to the courtier for the requisite quantity of wine. The king being an absolute monarch, the hquor and hves of his subjects were at his disposal; and being of a despotic temper, no one thought of disobedience; the wine was fm’m.shed, but to check future like requisitions, the practice of boiling ham in wine was discontinued, and it is beheved has not been renewed. A fresh ox tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port-wine sauce, and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety to the routine of ordinaiy dishes. Bacon should be a mass of fat, with the least possible quantity of lean; the lean, when salted, being hard, indigestible, and un- nutritious; while the pure fat, when of a pink, pearly hue, is as delicate as any food. Bacon may be kept for many months by the following means:— when the flitches have hung to dry, not later than the last week in April, separate the hams and gammons from the middles, put each into a strong broivn paper bag, and tie or sew up the mouth; do not uncover them till they are wanted for use, and then only the particular one that is wanted. Rubbing bacon or hams with fresh elder-leaves will keep off the hoppers. In larding veal, poultiy, or game, for savoury pies, the bacon shouldibe put in symmetrically, so as to appear, when cut, like a draft-board.Hints for the Table. SAUSAGE-MEATS. Of English sausages, the finest are made at Epping, Norwich, ’Oxford, and Cambridge. Bologna and Gottingen sausages are fine; indeed, most university towns are celebrated for “ savoury meats.” Oxford sausage-meat is made as follows: Take one pound and a hall of pig-meat, cut from the griskins, without any skin; half a pound of veal; and one pound and a half of beef-suet. Mince these meats separately, very finely; then mix them with a dessert spoonful of dried, powdered, and sifted sage; pepper and salt to taste; and the well-beaten yolks and whites of five eggs. The whole should be well beaten together, as much depends upon the mixing. Theodore Hook gives this receipt in his Adventures of Peter Priggins, the College Scout. Soyer tells us that the best Sausages he ever tasted were a pre- sent to him by Sir George Chetwynd, and were made by a country pork-butcher at Atherstone, a small town near Greendon Hall; they are more plainly made, and also better seasoned than, and not subject to burst, as the Cambridge ones, or at all events those made in London under that name. Oxford produces good sausages, not so choice in appearance, but to some tastes better in fiavour; the plainer they are, the better they dress for breakfast. The skin must be transparent, that the meat should be seen through; they keep good two or three days in a cold place in sum- mer, nearly a week in winter, with care. Dr. Kerner of Wurtemburg states that the smoked sausages, which constitute so favourite a repast in his country, often cause fatal poisonings. In one instance thirty-seven persons died out of seventy-six who had eaten them; and though the most able ■chemists analysed the meat, no trace of any known poison could be discovered. Professor Graham, in his work on Chemistr}', states that in Wurtemburg the sausages ai-e prepared from very various mate- rials. Blood, liver, bacon, brains, milk, bread, and meal are mixed together with salt and spices; the mixture is then put into blad- dex's or intestines, and after being boiled is smoked. When these sausages are well prepared, they may be preserved for months, and furnish a nourishing savoury food; but when the spices and salt are deficient, and particularly when they ai'c smoked too late or not sufficiently, they undergo a peculiar kind of putrefaction, rvhich begins at the centi’e of the sausage, and causes death. Savoury Pies. In large dinners, two cold pies of game or poultry are often sentPates tie Foie Gras. G5 to table with the first course, and let remain there between the two courses. By this means, the epicure and dainty eater alway.s has something before him : the pies are not at all in the way, but improve the appearance of the table.— Tide. Eaised pie of vegetables—an exquisite dish—may be enjoyed in perfection from May to August. Patties, vols-au-vent, and savoury pies, should be dished upon a napkin. In making a partridge or pigeon pie, put a beefsteak over as well as under the birds, and place them with their breasts down- wards in the dish. Strasbourg pates cannot be prepared without the livers of geese; and there is a strange admixture of cruelty and humour in the following defence of what was stated to be the mode of obtaining the livers of the requisite size: “ It is necessary,” says a writer in the Almanack des Gourmands, “ to sacrifice the person of the animal. Crammed with food, deprived of drink, and fixed near a great fire, before which he is nailed by his feet upon a plank, this goose passes, it must be owned, an uncomfortable life. The torment would be altogether intolerable, if the idea of the lot that awaits him did not serve as consolation. But this prospect makes him endure his sufferings with courage; and when he re- flects that his liver, bigger than himself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific p&te, will diffuse all over Europe the glory of his name, he resigns himself to his destiny, and suffers not a tear to flow.” Hence epicures began to feel some qualms of conscience for indulging in these luxuries, obtained by such cruel means; when Alexis Soyer, the famed cuisinier, visited Strasbourg, and in a letter to the Courriet' dw Has Hliin set the whole matter right. He says : “After having carefully examined the subject, I can declare that there is not a word of truth in the general belief. Up to the ago of eight months, the geese are allowed to feed at full liberty in the open air; they are then brought to market, and purchased by the persons wliosc occupation it is to fatten them for killing: they are placed in coops, and fed for about a month or five weeks three times a-day with wheat, and allowed as much water as they please. Each bird eats about a bushel of corn during the process of fattening; and the water of Strasbourg, it i.s said, contributes to increase the volume of the liver. 'iVlien sufficiently fat, they are killed, having been treated with the greatest attention and humanity during the whole period of their incarceration, and entirely removed from any unusual heat.”* Meat puddings and pies may be much improved by a whole onion, or a flap-mushroom, or a few oysters. The old practice of boiling a fowl in a bladder with oysters is discontinued. * See Popular Errors Explained and Illustrated. New Edition, p. 80. S•on Jlinfs for the Table. ]Jubble-ancl-squea,k is a favourite dish in Shropshire. George IV., when Prince of Wales, happened to partake of it at a "bacbelor’s table in that county, and the homely dish was after- wards frequently seen at Carlton House. In the Salters’ Company’s books is the following receipt to make a Game Pie for Christmas, in the reign of Itichard II. Take a pheasant, a hare, a capon, two partridges, two pigeons, and two rabbits; bone them, and put them into paste the shape •of a bird, with the livers and hearts, two mutton kidneys, force- meats, and egg-balls, seasoning, spice, ketchup, and pickled mush- rooms, filled up with gravy made from the various bones. A pie was so made by the Company’s cook in 1836, and was found to be excellent; which proves that our ancestors excelled iu cookery ■more than four centuries and a half ago. Poultry and Game. THE TUEKEY. The turkey ranks as one of the most useful benefits conferred by America on the rest of the world.* Though surpassed in ex- ternal beauty by the peacock, its flesh is greatly superior in excellence, standing almost unrivalled for delicacy of texture and agreeable sapidity. On this account, it has been naturalized with astonishing rapidity throughout the world, and almost universally constitutes a favourite banquet dish. The Indians value it so highly, when roasted, that thej’ call it “ the white man’s dish,” and present it to strangers as the best they can offer. In Eng- land, the rapid increase of tui-keys had rendered them attainable at country leasts as early as the }'ear 1585. Our name for them is very absurd; as it conveys the false idea that the turkey •originated in Asia; owing to the ridiculous habit, formerly pre- valent, of calling every foreign object by the name of Turk, Indian, &c. Wild turkeys have been shot, in their native woods, weighing thirty and even forty pounds, and standing three feet Iiigh.f * When M. Brillat-Savarin, judge of the Court of Cassation, and an :amateur gastronomer, was in A merica, once, on his return fix>m a shooting ■oxciursion, in which he shot a wild turkey, he fell into conversation Avith -Jefferson, who began relating some interesting anecdotes about W ash- ington and the war; when, observing the air distrait oi M. Brillat- Savarin, he stopped, and was about to go awiw: “ My dear sir,” said the gastronomer, “ I beg a thousand pardons, but I was thinking how I should <b'CS8 my wild turkey.” t The CuUoden Duke of Cumberland introduced into W'indsor Forest .great herds of red and fallow deer, and encouraged a breed of wild tiu'keys;Twrhey.—Bustard. 67 The brown Norfolk turkey may be fattened to resemble the American, by cramming it w'ith walnuts soaked in water, four days before killing. This is for roasting OJily; it makes the Hesh darker, and gives it the flavour of game. Turkeys are kept wild at Holkham Hall, Norfolk, by the Earl of Leicester, to whom they afford the same sport as any other bird in cover. —H. W. Brand. Some poultry, like game, is much iinproved by heeping. A Christmas turkey, if hung from a fortnight to three weeks, will acquii'e much of the flavom’ of game; and fowls may be similarly improved. A boiled turkey, capon, leg of lamb, or knuckle of veal, will be much enriched by putting into the saucepan with either a little chopped suet, two or three slices of peeled lemon, and a piece of bread. A turkey will be much improved by roasting it covered with bacon and paper. Chesnuts roasted and grated, or sliced, and green truffles stewed and sliced, are excellent addenda to forcemeat for turkeys, or some game. Chesnuts stewed in gravy are likewise served under turkey. Turkeys and pheasants, ready stuffed with truffles, are regu- larly imported from Paris by Morel, of Piccadilly. Two Italian cardinals laid a bet of a dinde aux truffes (a turkey with truffles), the payment of which the loser postponed till the very eve of the Carnival, when the winner reminded him of the debt. He excused himself by saying that truffles were nothing that year. “ Bah, bah!” said the other, “ that is a false report originating with the turkeys.” THE BUSTARD. Bustards, some twent}' years since, were bred in the open parts of Suffolk and Norfolk, and were domesticated at Norwich. Their flesh was delicious, and it wr.s thought that good feeding and domestication might stimulate them to lay more eggs ; but this was not the case. There were formeidy great flocks of bus- tards in England, upon the wastes and in woods, where they were hunted with greyhounds, and were easily taken. The bus- tard is, however, now extremely rare in this country. Three female birds were shot in Cornwall, in 1843; on Romney Mar.sh, in 1850; and in Devonshire, in 1851. In January, 1856, a very ■which latter, it is to be regretted, are extinct. In the reigns of Greorge I. and II., B.ichmond Park could boast of a flock of two thousand wild turkeys; but being situated near London, there were constant fights between the keepers and poachers, which occasioned the destruction of the birds.—Jesse’s Country Life. F 268 Hints for the Table. fine male bustard was taken near Hungerlbrd, in Berksliire, on tlie borders of Wiltsliire, this being the only male taken for many years in England : it weighed 13J lbs., and its wings measured from tip to tip 6 feet 3 inches; it is preserved in tlie museum of the Zoological Society. A writer in the Penny Cyclopcedia {voce Bustiird) says: “We are old enough to re- member one and sometimes two bustards as the crowning orna- ments of the magnificent Christmas larder at the Bush inn, Bristol, in the reign of John Weeks, of hospitable memory; and we have heard, too, a romantic story of the last of the Salisbury Plain bustards, (a female,) coming into a farmer’s barton, as if giving herself up. In 1819, a large male bird, taken on New- market Heath, was sold in Leadenhall market for five guineas.’' We remember to have seen the bustard in the Guildhall dinner bill of fare on Lord Mayor’s Day, but do not recollect the year of its disappearance. Mr. Gould considers that from the progress made in the science of agriculture and various other causes, the bustard may be regarded as extinct in this island.* In the Art of Dining (1852), Eisher, of Duke-street, is stated to have sent a fine bustard to Windsor, price guineas. There are some fine bustards in India, where they ai'e pursued on horseback, and shot by pistols. A young hen makes a veiy fine dish at table; the flesh of the breast is full of triangular cavities. THE BITTEEN.—HEEON.—GULL. The flesh of the bittern was formerly in high esteem, nor is it despised in the present day: when well fed, its flavour somewhat resembles that of the hare, nor is it rank and fishy like some of its congeners. The long claw of the hind-toe is much prized as a toothpick, and formerly, it was thought to have the property of ■jreserving the tceth.f The young of the black-headed gull proves to be excellent eating. Its eggs resemble crows’ more than plovers’ eggs: but vast quantities of them are sold for plovers’ eggs. This hint may help to prevent the amateurs of plovers’ eggs from being —■ Qjuarterly Peview. * A bustard was shot in the Bustard-country (Norfolk), in 1831. Jfr. Jesse knew a Norfolk gentleman, a great sportsman, who assured him that he once had a pack of bustards rise before his gun; he suddenly came upon them in a gravel-pit. Mr. Southey and Sir Kichard Colt Hoare both mention the curious fact, that the bustard has been kno^vn to attack men on horseback at night. f Southey relates, “A t.cfcrn was shot and eaten at Keswick by a young Cantab a few years ago; for which shooting I vituperate him in spirit whenever I thmk of it.”69 Fowls.—Geese. FOWLS. Choose fowls with pale flesh-coloured or white legs: for delicacy of flesh, the game breed, the Spanish, and the Doidcing are most esteemed. White chickens are the best to fatten for the table. The Dorking fowls have not, however, uniformly five claws, as is supposed, that number being accidental; they are large, and have rather yellow than white flesh. For a large dinner, when fowls are very dear, use the fillets for the first-course dishes; and make the soup with the legs only, when it will be as good but not quite so white as if made with the fillets. A good hen, well tended, will lay upwards of 140 eggs per annum, and also rear one or two broods of chickens. Fricassee of chicken may be given as one of the dishes for a trial dinner; as very few cooks are able to make a good fricassee. IJde considers this dish the most wholesome and the least expen- .sive of any, as it requires only water to make it well. Sir Humphry Davy gives us two culinary hints from a Nor- wegian dinner'—roast your fowls with plenty of parsley in tlieir bellies; place sliced cucumbers, if j'ou wish them to be whole- some, in salt, which makes them tender, and abstracts their un- wholesome juice, which separates in large quantities. GOOSE.—SWAN. Goose ranks much higher in England than elsewhere: it is lield in little honour, except for its liver, by the French. The flesh of the New Holland coreopsis is much more delicate than that of our goose; and it promises to become -a valuable acquisition to our poultry-yard. The fattening of geese is a good speculation at Strasbourg. The livers sometimes weigh from 10 to 12 ounces, and sell at from 'A to 5 fi-ancs each, for the celebrated pdth: the fat is a sub- stitute for butter, and the flesh is served at table, and, although som3what tough, it is nutritious; and the feathers and quills are much sought after. The young of the Solan goose was formerly a favourite dish with the North Britons. Pennant observes: “ During the season, they are constantly brought from the Bass Isle to Edinburgh, where they are sold roasted, and served up as a whet.” A Canadiau goose, when fat, weighs about nine pounds, and is the dail}' ration for one of the Hudson Bay Company’s servants throughout the season: it is reckoned equivalent to two snow geese, or three ducks, or 81b. buffalo and morse meat, or two pounds of pemmican, or a pint of maize and 4 oz. suet. The flesh of the wild swan is considered by the Indians and70 Hints/or the Table. settlers at Hudson’s Bay, excellent eating, and, when roasted, equal in flavour to young beef; and the C3’gnets are considered a great delicacy. The eggs are so large, that one of them is enough for a moderate man, without bread, or any other addition. The flesh of cygnets was once highly esteemed ; and is still, or was lately, served at the dinners of the corporation of Norwich, who are bound by some tenure annually to present the Duke of Norfolk with a large cygnet pie. We find several entries of swans among the delicacies of the City Companies’ feasts. In a dinner of the Brewers’ Company’, as early as the reign of Henry V., 1419, six swans are charged at 2s. 6(f. each; and a swan appears to have been a customary fine in the Company. THE CANVA88-BACK DUCK. The canvass-hack duck, in the rich, juicy tenderness of its flesh, and its delicacy of flavour, stands unrivalled by the whole of its tribe in America, or any other quarter of the world. At American public dinners, hotels, and private entertainments, the canvass-backs are universal favourites. They not only grace, but dignify the table, and their very name conveys to the imagination of the eager epicure the most comfortable and exhilaratmg ideas. Hence, on such occasions, it has not been uncommon to pay from one to three dollars a pair for these ducks; indeed, at such times, if they can they must be had, whatever be the price.—{Wilson and Bonaparte’s American Ornithology.)—Swainson refers to the canvass-hack duck as the ortolan of the duck family, and the turtle of the swimming birds. Charles Mackay, in his Transatlantic Sketches, in the Illus- trated London News, says: “ Baltimore is celebrated for the can- vass-back duck, one of the greatest delicacies of the table in the New World. The eanvass-back feeds and breeds in countless myriads on the waters of Chesapeake Bay. Among the wild celery which grows on the shores of the shallow waters the can- vass-back finds the peculiar food which gives its flesh the flavour so highly esteemed. Baltimore bemg the nearest large city to the Chesapeake, the traveller may be always certain, during the season, of finding abundant and cheap supplies. Norfolk in Vir- ginia, at the entrance of Chesapeake Bay, is, however, the chief emporium of the trade, which is carried on largely with all the cities of the Union, and even to Europe, whither the bhds are sent packed in ice, but where they do not usually arrive in such condition as to give the epicure a true idea of their excellence and delicacy. If steam shall ever shorten the passage across the Atlantic to one week, Europe will, doubtless, be as good a cus- tomer for the canvass-hack duck as America itself.”Game. 71 The larger ducks are the commonest variety, which has been introduced from France, and is thence called the Rhone duck. When ducks arc old, keeping them a few days will make them tender. The influence of food on the flavour of the flesh of many animals is notorious. At certain seasons, the wild-ducks of this country are scarcely eatable from their rank, fishy taste: the same may be said of the heath-cock of Germany, where the juniper berries are abundant; and the American pheasants, when they feed on the kalmia, have proved to be poisonous to man.—- Bui'nett. GAME, ETC. Black game have increased greatly in the southern counties of Scotland and north of England, within the last few years. It is a pretty general opinion, though an erroneous one, that they drive away the red grouse; the two species require a very diflTerent kind of cover, and will never interfere.—Sir W. Jardine. Black-cock should be dressed before a bright fire, be well basted, and not overdone. Ten minutes before serving, make a round of toast, squeeze over it a lemon, and then lay it in the dripping-pan; place the birds upon this toast for table, and serve with melted butter only, as highly-seasoned gravy destroys the true flavour' of black-cock. Tbe flesh of the black grouse is much esteemed. The different colour of the flesh of the pectoral muscles must have struck every one. The internal layer, which is remarkably white, is esteemed the most delicate portion. Belon goes so far as to say, that the- three pectoral muscles have three different flavours: the first that of beef, the second that of partridge, and the third that of pheasant. Pheasants are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run, from the bill, which is commonly in six days or a week after they have been killed. Broiled partridges may be served with poor man’s sauce and Indian pickle. Old partridges are only fit for stewing with cab- bage, for stock broth, and glaze of game; but are too tough foi' anything fine. The pochard or dun bird is a novelty among game. It is a species of wild fowl supposed to come from the Caspian Sea, and is caught only in a single decoy in Essex, in the month of January, in the coldest years. The flesh of the pochard is ex- quisitely tender and delicate, but has little of the common wild- duck flavour; it is best eaten in its own gravy, which is plen- tiful, without either cayenne or lemon-juice. Wilson considers the American pochard to rank next to the canvass-back duck.72 Jlints for the Tulle. The peacock was formerly mucli more valued for the table than it is now; yet, at the present da^^ it is esteemed, when young, as a great delicacy. The guinea ibwl, in llavour, unites the merits of the turkey and pheasant; but it is not often served even at good tables. Slices of ham should be skewered over a guinea fowl while roasting, and it should be well basted, as the meat is very dry. A guinea fowl and ])heasant are advantiigeously dressed together. Quails have no llavour, and from confinement and bad feeding are never very fat; it is only the rarity that makes them fashion- able.— Tide. Redbreasts are eaten as first-rate delicacies in France, and are described as “ un- roti ires succulent.” They are likewise served en salmi, or hashed, like woodcocks. We have heard much of Dunstable larks; but the enthusiasm with which gourmets speak of these tit-bits of luxury is far ex- ceeded b}’’ the Germans, who travel many hundred miles to Leipsic, merely to eat a dinner of larks, and then return home contented. Such is the slaughter of larks at the Leipsic fair, that half a million are annually devoured, principally by the booksellers frequenting that city. Ruffs and reeves are less known than they deserve to be: they are worth nothing in their wild state, but being taken alive, tliey are fattened on boiled wheat, or bread and milk mixed with liempseed, for about a fortnight. The season for them is August and September; and the finest are taken on Whittlesea Mere, in Lincolnshire. ORTOLANS. Of these pet birds, “ lumps of celestial fatness,” as they are fondly termed by epicures, a pair is engraved in the frontispiece to the present volume, by permission, from Mr. Gould’s valuable work on the Birds of Europe. The name is from the Ortolano of the Italians generally; but the bird is also found in Germany and the Netherlands, and other parts of Europe. It is not famed for its song, which is, however, soft and sweet; and, like the nightingale, it sings after as well as before sunset. It was this bird that Varro called his companion by night and day. Ortolans are solitary birds; they fly in pairs, rarely three together, and never in flocks. They are taken in traps, from March or April to September, when they are often poor and thin; but if fed with plenty of millet-seed and other grain, they be- come sheer lumps of fat, and delicious morsels. They are fat- tened thus in large establishments in the south of Europe; and Mr. Gould states, in Italy and the south of France, in a dark room. The ortolan is considered sufficiently fat when it is a handful,73 The Ortolan. and is judged by feeling it, and not by appearance. It should not be killed with violence, like other birds, as this might crush and bruise the delicate flesh—to avoid which the usual mode is to plunge the head of the ortolan into a glass of brandy. Having picked the bird of its feathers, singe it, cut off the beak and ends of the feet, but do not draw it; put it into a paper case soaked in olive oil, and broil it over a slow fire—charcoal or slack cinders—and in a few minutes the ortolan will swim in its own i'at, and be cooked. Some epicures wrap each bird in a vine-leaf. Ortolans ai-e packed in tin boxes for exportation. They may be bought at Morel’s, in Piccadilly. Mr. Fisher, of Duke-street, St. James’s, and other West-end poulterers, import ortolans in considerable numbers; and Mr. Fisher has acquired the art ot fattening these birds. A gourmet will take an ortolan by the legs, and crunch it in delicious mouthfuls, so as absolutely to lose none of it. More delicate feeders cut the bird in quarters, and lay aside the gizzard, which is somewhat hard; the rest may be eaten, even to the bones, which are sufficiently tender for the most delicate mouth to masticate without inconvenience. The ortolan is an autumnal visitor to the British isles, and may occur more frequently than is generally supposed; since it may be mistaken for the yellow-hammer, and, in some states of plu- mage, for other buntings. It has been caught in the neighbour- hood of London: there are live specimens in large aviaries, and occasionally the birds are sent from the Continent alive to the London markets. Specimens have also been hatched by arti- ficial heat in the aviary of the Ornithological Society. According to Buflbn, the ortolan was known in Greek and Homan epicurism; but a lively French commentator doubts this, and maintains that had the ancients known the ortolan, they would have deified it, and built altars to it on Mount Hymettus and the Janiculum; adding, did they not deify the horse of Caligula, which was cer- tainly not worth an ortolan ? and Caligula himself, who was not worth so much as his horse ? The ortolan figures in a cmaous anecdote of individual epicurism in the Last century. A gentleman of Gloucestershhe had one son, whom he sent abroad, to make the grand tour of the Continent, where ho paid more at- tention to the cookery of nations and luxurious living, than anything else. Before his return, his father died, and left him a large fortune. He now looked over his note-book to discover where the most exquisite dishes wore to be had, and the best cooks obtained. Every servant in his house was a cook; his butler, footman, housekeeper, coachman, and grooms—all were cooks. He had also three Italian cooks—one from Elorence, another from Sienna, and a third from Viterbo—for dressing one Florentine dish! He had a messenger constantly on the road between Brittany and London, to74 Hints for the Table. bring the eggs of a certain sort of plover found in the former country. He was mown to eat a single dinner at the expense of 601., though there were but two dishes. In nine years, he found himself getting poor, and this made him melancholy. Wlien totally ruined, havmg spent 160,tXX)l., a friend one day gave him a guinea to keep him from starving; and he was found in a garret next day broiling an ortolan, for which he had paid a portion of the alms! THE WHEATEAE. There is some consolation for the rarity of the ortolan in England. It is approached in delicacy by our wheatear, which is also called “ the English Ortolan.” Hence it has been pursued as a delicate morsel throughout all its island haunts. Bewick cap- tured it at sea off the coast of Yorkshire. Every spring and autumn it may be observed at Gibraltar, on its migration. Mr. Strickland, the ornithologist, saw it at Smyrna in April. North Africa is its winter habitat. Colonel Sykes notes it among the birds of the Deccan. THE PIGEON, ETC. Mr. Waterton, whose knowledge of natural history renders his opinion worthy of quotation, remarks : “ We labour under a mistake in supposing that the flesh of the young carrion crow is rank and unpalatable. It is fully as good as that of the rook ; and I believe that nobodj'- who is accustomed to eat rook pie, will deny that rook pie is nearly, if not quite, as good as pigeon pie. Having fully satisfied myself of the delicacy of the flesh of young carrion crows, I once caused a pie of these birds to be served up to two convalescent friends, whose stomachs would have yearned spasmodically had they known the nature of the dish. I had the satisfaction of seeing them make a hearty meal upon what they considered pigeon pie.” Pigeons are scarcely fit for a delicate stomach when full fledged, as they are difiBcult of digestion. A heron is now but little valued, and but rarely brought to market; though formerly a heron was estimated at thrice the value of a goose, and six times the price of a partridge. The common godwit is often taken in Lincolnshire, and fat- tened for the London market. HAEE AND EABBIT. No gravy can be extracted from the flesh of any animal equal in riqhness to that which the hare affords. Among the Eomans, the hare was held in great estimation. Alexander Severus had a hare daily served at his table. Ca2sar says, that in his time the Britons did not eat the flesh of hare.Keeping TouUry and Game. 75 To tell an old rabbit from a young one, and vice versd, press the knee-joint of the fore-leg with the thumb; when the heads of the two bones which form the joints are so close together that little or no space can be perceived between them, the rabbit is an old one. If, on the contrary, there is a perceptible separation between the two bones, the rabbit is young; and more or less so, as the two bones are more or less separated.—Nimrod. Warren rabbits only ought to be sent to a good table, tamo rabbits, in general, having no flavour but that of cabbage. In the country, where rabbits are abundant, use the fillets for the dining-room, and make a kitchen pie or pudding with the legs and shoulders. TIME FOE KEEPING POULTEY AND GAME. In Summer. In Winter. Hare ... 6 days. Eabbit 2 ... 4 Pheasant 4 ... 10 Yoimg fat Pullet 4 ... 10 Partridge 2 ... 6 to 8 Turkey, Duck, Groosc 2 ... 6 Capon 3 ... 6 Chickens 2 ... 4 Young Pigeons 2 ... 4 When the weather is moist or rainy, the articles must be kept somewhat less time. If at any time feathered game has become tainted, pick and draw the birds as soon as possible, and immerse them in new milk. Let them remain in this until next day, when they will be quite sweet and fit for cooking. The milk must be thrown away. Game (birds) should be hung by the neck and not by the feet,. as is commonly done. Hares should he dressed when blood di’ops from the nose. The fishy flavour of wild fowl may be prevented by first boiling them in water in which are salt and onions. Game or wild fowl for two or three are, however, never better than when broiled. The efiect of keeping game is not only to make it tenderer, but likewise to bring out its flavour, which tends in another way to promote digestion. Nothing is more tasteless than a pheasant cooked too soon, or has a finer flavour after hanging a proper length of time. No doubt, this flavour, while it gratifies the- palate, assists digestion, by sympathetically exciting the sto- mach.—Mayo. If game be wrapped in a cloth, moistened with pure pyro- ligneous acid and water in equal proportions, it will keep good for many days during the hottest weather.llints for the Table. 70 Ganio in the third course is seldom half enjoyed; as it has, probably, been preceded by some substantial dish, thereby taking luvay the relish, and overloading the appetite. The far-famed eatable birds’ nests abound in the Philippine Islands, and are nothing more than a kind of seaweed {Sphero- coccus cartilagineus), which the swallow eats, and having softened it in its stomach, throws up as a jelly, and forms into a ■nest, which is subsequently smeared over with dirt and feathers. In this state the nests are sent to China, cleaned, and sold at very high prices : they are then fine jelly, and being dressed with stimulants, form a first-rate relish at the tables of the Chinese. Some of onr own epicures may be glad to hear that the Sphero- coccus crispus, which might serve for the composition of this luxury, is to be found in abundance on the western and northern coasts of Great Britain. The south of France is the great larder of Paris. Thence we have, from Provence, the exquisite pale truffle, and oil pure and colourless as water; p&tSs led on by the sublime pdte defoix gras; poulard truffe o^Ven^ovUL-, the unbrandicd claret of Jlordeaux; the liqueurs of Marseilles; the nougat* of the same emporium; the oranges of Hyeres; the muscat of Lunel; the •ortolans, quails, verdiers, hec-figues, the olives, figs, anchovies, almonds, fruits dried and preserved in jelly, en compote, in brandy and out of it, and other countless delicacies. EGGS. The finest-flavoured hens’ eggs are those with bright orange 3’olks, such as are laid by the game-breed and by speckled varieties. The large eggs of the Polish and Spanish breed have often pale yolks, and little flavour. In making Christmas plum-puddings, duck eggs are more •seiwiceable, and more economical in their application, than are those of fowls, and being lai'ger in size, heavier, and far richer, they maj' be regarded as worthy the attention of the housewife. Seagulls’ eggs, when boiled hard, and eaten with pepper, ■salt, vinegar, and mustard, make a delicious bi’eakfast dish. 3Iany persons have an antipathy to these eggs; but it must have arisen from eating them in a soft state, when they have always a fishy taste. A vast number of the eggs of rooks are commonly sub- stituted for those of the plover, to which they bear a very close and apt resemblance—insomuch, that the difference between them is scarcely capable of being detected by accurate observers. * The nougat is a sort of cake, composed of filberts, pistachio nuts, the kernels of the pine cone, and Warbonne honey.The Hundred Guinea Dish. 77 The formation of the egg of the former bird is, however, more rotund at either extremity than is that of the latter, and the dark opaque blotches observable on the egg of the plover are larger and more boldly defined than are those noticeable in that of the rook. Dr. Hunter, in his Cidina, gives the recipe for an omelette, the invention of a lady, who had it regularly served at her table three days in the week, and who died at the age of ninety-seven, with a piece of it in her mouth. The doctor adds, that, in con- sequence of this accidental longevity, eggs rose ninety per cent, in the small town of Wells, in North America, where the old lady was born and died. “ The Hundred Guinea Dish,” a feat a la Lucullus, devised by Soyer,* for the royal table, at the banquet given by the Lord * Few persons were better known “about town” than Alexis Soyer; few were more generally liked; and the good service he did society, not only in Ireland in the famine year, in the Crimea during the war, and later by his endeavours to improve barrack cookery, but also by teaching the people how to utilize much good food commonly wasted—entitles him to more than ordinary notice. Severe illness, consequent partly upon Crimean campaigning, and his exertions in the hospitals of Scutari, told upon his originally vigorous consti- tution, and sowed the seeds of a fatal malady. For some months before his death, his health was bad, and the labours of remodelling the kitchens of the army, and the study of the various contrivances to increase the comfort of our soldiery in the barrack and in the field, were too much for his enfeebled energies. He lapsed into a state of coma, and so continued up to the time of his death. Alexis Soyer was born at Mau-en-Brie, in France, in October, 1809. He was designed for the chmch, and he was sent for his education to the Cathedral School of Meaux—instituted by the celebrated Bossuet— where he remained for some years, and officiated as a chorister. He was next sent to Paris, and was apprenticed to a celebrated restaarafewr in the Palais Eoyal (D’Ouix). There he remained five years; by which time his elder brother, who had also been educated to the profession of cook, had obtained the position of chef to the Duke of Cambridge. Alexis, anxious to see the world, came over to England, on a visit to his brother, and at Cambridge House he cooked his first dinner in England, for the then Prince George; and it was only by accident that the last dinner he cooked (at the IFcllington Barracks) was not partaken of by the same personage, tioycr afterwards entered the service of various noblemen, amongst others of Lord Ailsa, Lord Panmure, &c., and became rather celebrated for his little dinners at Melton. He then entered into the service of the Befonu Club, and the breakfast given by that club, on the occasion of the Queen’s coronation, stamped him as the first man in his profession. Since then his career has been continually before the public. His O’Connell dinner, with Souffles a la Clontarf, is thought by gastronomes to be one of the richest bits of satire that ever was invented; but that which brought liis name to be known and respected publicly, was his ofi'er to the Government to go to Ireland, in the year of the famine. There he went, and superintended the arrangements ibr cooking for 26,000 persons78 ITinisfor the Table. Mayor of York, in 1850, to Prince Albert, to propitiate the Great Exliibition of 1851, may be described here. This Apiciau disli contained a small portion of the following Articles. Cost. £ s. d. 6 Turtle-Leads, part of fins, and green fat 34 0 0 24 Capons (the two small noix from each side of the middle of the back only used) 8 8 0 18 Turkeys, the same 8 12 0 18 Poulardes, the same 5 17 0 16 Fowls, the same 280 10 Grouse 250 20 Pheasants, noix only 300 46 Partridges, the same 376 6 Plovers, whole 090 40 Woodcocks, the same 800 3 Dozen Quails, whole 300 100 Snipes, noix only 500 3 Dozen Pigeons, noix only 0 14 0 6 Dozen Larks, stuffed 0 15 0 Ortolans, from Belgium 500 The garnish, consisting of cocks’-combs, truffles, mush- rooms, crawfish, olives, American asparagus, crons- tades, sweetbreads, quenelles de volatile, green mangoes, and a new sauce 14 10 0 £106 6 0 The expensiveness of the above is explained by the fact, that if an epicure were to order this dish only, he would he charged for the whole of the above-mentioned articles. daily. In June, 1847, he was entertained at a public dinner at the London Tavern, given by his friends and admirers, for his philanthropic and dis- interested exertions for the rehef of the poor. He left the Eeform Club in 1860, and his first public undertaking was the agricultural dinner at Exeter. In 1861 he took Gore House, which he converted into a vast restaurant, under the designation of the Symposium; but by this specula- tion he lost 4000Z. After that he employed himself on his cookery-books, and in the Crimean war, where he only arrived a little too late. He came home full of schemes to introduce a new system of cooking into the army, and it was while working out these that he died, aged 60. M. Soyer was interred in Kensal Green Cemetery, in the vault erected for his \me. She was a Miss Jones, the adopted daughter of M. Simoneau, a Belgian artist of some reputation. Madame Soyer herself was a painter, and produced some admirable works.—Abridged from the Illustrated Times, August 28,1858. Soyer’s principal works on Cookery are his Gastronomic Regenerator, and his Pantropheon; these are two guinea volumes—the former his System of Cookery, and the latter illustrating the Cookery of the Ancients, and the Classics of the Table. His Modem Sousetoife is an excellent book for middle-class famUies; and his Shilling Cookery Book is adapted for aU classes. Of these works more than 300,000 copies have been sold.79 Sauce Piquante.—Tniffles. Sauces and Gravies. A GOOD sauce, in the phrase of the kitchen, “ tastes of everything, imd tastes of nothing;” that is, all the articles in it are well proportioned, and neither predominates. A sauce made according to the principles ’ of the art, excites and restores the appetite, flatters the palate, is pleasing to the smell, and inebriates all the senses with delight. A noble gourmet once asserted that sauces are to food what action is to oratory; and the Almanacli des Gourmands says—“ A delicious sauce will cause you to eat an elephant.” Dutch sauce is best made with elder or taragon vinegar. When coloured green with parsley extract, a little lemon-juice should he added, else it will turn yellow. Sauce Piquante was made by Michael Kelly, the epicure, as followsPut a table-spoonful of parsley-leaves, and the same of capers, into a mortar, and beat them together; add a table- spoonful of fresh mustard, and three hard yolks of eggs, and properly mix the whole. Then add six anchovies, boned and forced through a sieve; a table-spoonful of vinegar, two of oil, and a finely-chopped shalot, and mix the whole. When to be used, stir the sauce into half a pint of melted butter, or strong beef gravy. Ham extract, made by stewing the bone of a ham with carrots, onions, and herbs, and then stewing the lean meat in the liquor, and straining it, is an expensive affair; but a table-spoonful of the extract will flavour a tureen full of winter pea or carrot-soup, and a teaspooonful in melted butter makes an excellent sauce for roast fowl. Olives, in France, are inti’oduced into sauces for calTs head and fowls; and a duck is served with olive-sauce. For these purposes the olives are turned with a knife, so as to take out the stone, and leave the fruit whole. In choosing truffles, be careful to reject those which have a musky smell.* Garlic or shalot vinegar, a few drops to a pint of gravy, will give one of the finest flavours in cookery. Poor man’s sauce is made by chopping a few shalots very * The art of producing truffles, which has been long sought for, but without success, has, it is said, been discovered at Carpentras, in the department of Vaucluse. An interesting paper on Truffles and Truffle- hunting will be found in Dickens’s Household Words,Hints for the Table. 80 fine, and warming them with a little pepper and salt, in vinegar and water. It is excellent with young roast turkey. Russian sauce (horse-radish, mustard, vinegar, &c.) was named from Dr. Hunter having seen it prepared by a Russian princess. Ham relish may be made by seasoning highly with cayenne pepper, a slice ot dressed ham, then broiling it, and adding butter, mustard, and a little lemon-juice. Our bread sauce is capable of much improvement, of which the French cooks have taken advantage in their hritsauce, “ which, though, no doubt, imitated from the English composition, beai’s no greater resemblance than one of Sir Thomas Lawrence’s por- traits of an old woman to the original; all the harsher points being mellowed down, and an indescribable shading of seductive softness infused.”—(Quarterly Reviev:. Notwithstanding the taunt of the French, on melted butter being our national sauce, it is rarely well made—a fact which may have occasioned the late Earl of Dudley to observe, on a deceased Baron of the Exchequer; “ He was a good man, sir, an excellent man; he had the best melted butter I ever tasted in my life.” Although there is little mystery in the composition of oyster- sauce, like melted butter, it is rarely well made; it commonly resembles thick butter, with lukewarm oysters in it. The making of lobster sauce is not generally understood. It can only be made in perfection with three parts cream to one of butter, with cayenne, salt, and cavice or coratch; but the common error is not chopping the lobster small enough. When cut into large dice (as directed in most cookery-books), it is scarcely'’ a sauce, for the result is too much like eating fish with Jish. Essences of anchovies, lobsters, and shrimps are commonly .adulterated with bole Armenian, which contains much red oxide of iron; flour is also used'for thickening, and in some cases copper is found in these sauces. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell prepare an anchovy-sauce without any colouring, which is of greatly improved quality and flavour. To ensure this, the refuse and dirt are removed from the fish, to do which is troublesome and expensive; but, by using bole Armenian or Venetian red, the dirt and refuse are concealed. Nine-tenths of the ketchup sold by grocer-oilmen is a vile compound of liver and the roe of fish, seasoned with pepper and other condiments. If you wish the article genuine, procure the mushrooms, and make it yourself. India Soy is difficult to purchase genuine: it should be made from an Indian plant called Rolichos soja, or soya; but treacle and salt are the basis of the soy ordinarily sold.Cliatna, Currie, etc. 81 “ Many persons,” observes Mr. Dobell, in his Travels in China, “have thought that gravy was used in preparing soy ; but this appears not to be the case, the compo.sition being entirely a vege- table one, and made from beans. Japanese soy is much esteemed in China; probably it is made with a particular bean.* In China the consumption of soy is enormous ; neither rich nor poor can dine, breakl'ast, or sup without soy; it is the sauce for all sorts of food, and may he described as indispensable at a Chinese repast.” Cavice is the composition which best agrees with all fish- sauces, especially when it has been kept two or three years. One of the most elegant preparations of culinary chemistry is soluble Cayenne pepper, when genuine. Capers are the buds of the caper-bush, the flowers of which are white and purple. The flower-buds of the marsh-marygold, preserved in vinegar, are a good substitute for capers. CHATNA, CUEEIE, AND PEPPEE. In Bengal, chatna is usually made from a vegetable called cotemear, to the eye veiy much resembling parsley, but to those unused to it, of a very disagreeable taste and smell; which is sti’ongly heated with chilies. The chatna is also sometimes made with cocoa-nut, lime-juice, garlic and chilies. Both kinds are much eaten by the Hindoos as a stimulant to their rice. In England, currie-powder brought from India is highly prized; but this is a mere delusion. In India, the cooks have no currie- powder—they pound and mix the various seeds and spices as they require them. For use on ship-board, bottles of currie-powder are made up in India, because, to take the unprepared seeds would be inconvenient; but very frequently, this powder is detestable, though made abroad. Indeed, currie-powder can be made just as good here as in India. Another mistake respecting currie-powder is, that we make it too hot with Cayenne-pepper. In India, there are mild curries, and hot curries: the former contain no Cayenne- pepper or chili; the latter are warmed, not with Cayenne-pepper, but with the green chili, which is always preferable. Currie-powder consists of turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, Cayenne, fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice, and cloves: but the three latter are often omitted. The ingredients may be bought of most seedsmen, and then, with a common pestle and mortar, may be prepared genuine currie-powder at a cost of about 2d. per oz.—retailed in shops at 6c?., Qd., and even Is. * Now that Japan is open to our trade, we hope to receive Japanese soy, with greater eertainty. aHints for the Table. 82 lu this country, only a few dishes are curried; whereas all meats and most kinds of fish make good curries. In preparing rice for currie, be careful not to touch it with the fingers, or a spoon. A spoonful of the cocoa-nut kernel, pounded, gives a very delicate flavour to a currie of chicken. In the East Indies, the Burdwan is frequently introduced when the appetite begins to flag, after eating heartily of two courses: and, being often dressed by the master or mistress in the presence of the company, it is generally much esteemed. When this stew is dressed on a small chafing-dish in the room where the company dine, it sends forth such a savoury smell, that it reminds us of what Eve felt when the apple was presented to her, during her disturbed dream:— The pleasant savoury smell So quickened appetite, that I, methought. Could not but taste it.—Milton. Of Cayenne pepper there are several sorts, made from the cap- sicum, an annual plant, and a native of both the Indies. Some persons prepare their own pepper, with a view to obtain it genuine, from the capsicums grown in this country j but the capsicum frutescens affords, when dried and powdered, the finest Cayenne-pepper. The difficulty of obtaining it genuine in England wUl not be matter of surprise, when the reader learns that even the Cayenne sold in Jamaica is prepared from several sorts of red capsicums, mixed with capsicum frutescens; but they are all much inferior in pungency and aromatic flavour; and per- sons who would have it genuine, are obliged to prepare it in them own families. It is called Cayenne-pepper, from its being the most noted production of the island of that name, in French Guiana; though it is also produced elsewhere. The relative value of black and white pepper is but imperfectly understood. The former is decidedly the best: white pepper is of two sorts, common and genuine: the former is made by blanching the grains of the common black pepper, by steeping them for a while in water, and then gently rubbing them, so as to remove the dark outer coat. It is milder than the other, and much prized by the Chinese; but very little is imported into England. “ Genuine” white pepper is merely the Sbghted or imperfect grains: picked from among the heaps of black pepper. It is, of course, very inferior. Pepper is eaten throughout the civilized world; but more in hot than in cold countries. In Asia, where the stomach is weak- ened by excessive perspfration, produced by the heat of the climate, by a humid atmosphere, and by a too much vegetable diet, pepper is employed as a powerful stimulant. Thus, in a medical point ofPickling.—Mustard. 83 view", pepper proves an excellent tonic, and is calculated to create appetite, and to promote digestion. PICKLES. A great deal of attention has been paid to the examination of pickles sold by oilmen; and in all the sixteen specimens examined bv Dr. Hassall, he found copper in various amounts j wherefore, the only safety for the public is that all housekeepers should take the matter into their own hands, and become themselves the makers of their pickles. Of the poisonous pickles the green, as gherkins and beans, contain the largest amount of copper, which is thought to be necessary to insure the fine green colour; but this may be as well obtained by the use of pure vinegar' and a proper quantity of salt; and every oilman who understands his I business can produce gr'een pickles without the aid of copper. We cannot be surprised at the frequency of poisoning by eating pickles, when we find the writers of cookery-books ordering the vinegar for gherkins to be boiled in a bell-metal or copper pot, and poured hot on the cucumbers. Again, greening is recom- mended : it is made of verdigris, distilled vinegar, alum powder, and bay-salt; and Raffald, in her cookery-book, directs: “ to render pickles green, boil them with halfpence, or allow them to a stand twenty-four hours in copper or brass pans.” To detect suspected vinegar, put three or four drops on the blade of a knife j i add one drop of sulphuric acid, and heat the under surface of the ! knife over a candle-flame, when the vinegar will evaporate, and deposit the copper on the knife-blade, if any he present. Mangoes are pickled when unripe, and brought from the East Indies. They are imitated by pickling small unripe melons, i which are then called melon-mangoes. I Old pickles are rarely crisp, but they are of much finer flavour than new ones; though not so esteemed. In cheap pickles, the vegetables are scarcely half saturated with the vinegar, which is of the worst kind, being adulterated fi with sulphuric acid, as may be detected by the sulphurous odour pj of such pickles. I Epicures sometimes mix mustard with sherry or raisin wine. I The French mix it with tarragon, shalot, and other flavoured ii vinegars, and pepper. It may amuse the reader to relate a spe- 8 cimen of the pompous and even Royal style assumed by the Duke n of Northumberland in his well-known household book for 1512. ;1 He does not give an order for the making of mustard, of which ij it is stated that the annual allowance was 160 gallons, but it is- ii introduced with the following formal preamble: “ It seemethi i good to us and our Council,” &c. I G- 2llinlsfor the Table. 84 V egetables. All vegetables do not contain equal proportions of nourishment. Thus, French beans (the seeds, the white haricoof the Continent) contain 921b. of nutritious matter in 1001b.; broad beans, 891b.; peas, 931b. Greens and turnips yield only 81b. solid nutriment in 1001b.; carrots, 14; and, in opposition to the common opinion, 1001b. of potatoes yield only 251b. of nutrition. Certain vegetables assist the stomach with some indigestible food. Such are rich and oily substances, as porl:, goose, wild Ibwl, and salmon. The malic acid in apple-sauce eaten with roast pork, the lemon juice with wild fowl, and vinegar with salmon, have thus come into common use. To assist the digestion of fried white bait, and turtle too, lemon-juice is usually added, and punch drank with them: “ the palate,” says Dr. Mayo, “ having sug- gested, and philosophy approving, the association.” The only secret of dressing vegetables green, is an open sauce- pan, plenty'of water (with salt), and fast boiling. Plenty of good vegetables, well served, is a luxury vainly hoped for at set-parties: they are made to figure in a very secondary way, except when they are considered as delicacies, which is generally before they are at the best. Excellent potatoes, smoking hot, with melted butter of the best quality, are as rare on state occasions, so served, as if they \vere of the cost of pearls. When peas, French beans, and similar productions, do not boil easily, it has usually been imputed to the coolness of the season, or to the rains. This popular notion is erroneous. The difficulty of boiling them soft arises from a superabundant quantity of gypsum imbibed during their growth. To correct this, throw a small quantity of sub-carbonate of soda into the pot along with the vegetables, the carbonic acid of which will seize upon the lime in the gypsum, and free the vegetables from its influence. Cauliflowers, kidney-beans, and other delicate vegetables, may be kept many months, by drying them, and packing them in a jar, with common salt between and over them. Vegetables m.ay also be long kept in an ice-house. POTATOES. Mealy potatoes are more nutritious than those which are waxy; as the Ibrmer contain the greatest quantity of starch, in which consists the nutriment of the potato. To ensure mealy potatoes, peel them, and put them on the fire in boiling water; when nearly done, drain them, put on them a dry cloth, cover them closely, and set them near the lure for five »»unutes.Potatoes ill Ireland. 85 A well dressed potato has been fixed upon as a tost of the merits of a cook. At the meeting of a club committee, specially called for the selection of a cook, the first question put to the ciindidates was, “ Can you boil a potato ?” In Prussia, potatoes are frequently served in six different forms: the bread is made from them; the soup is thickened with tliem; there lU’e fried potatoes, potato salad, and potato dump- lings ; to which may be added potato cheese, which, by the by, is one of the best preparations; it will keep many years. Potatoes are now mostly served at good tables in British India. In Ireland this root is cooked so that it may have, as they call it, a bone in it; that is, that the middle of it should not be quite c<;oked. They nvo dressed thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt in a large iron pot, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place it on the side of the fire without water for about twenty minutes, and serve. In Ireland turf is the principal article of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Even in those families where such a common art of civilized life as cooking ought to have made some progress, the only improvement they have' upon this plan is, that they leave the potatoes m the dry pot longer, by wliieh they lose the botie. They are also served up with the skins (jackets) on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest.—Soyer. Professor Mulder, who thoroughly investigated the potato, solemnly denounces it as an article of food, and says it is the “ cause of the moral and physical degeneration of the nations that use -it.” CABBAGE, KALE, &C. By boiling the cabbage we can extract the greater part of that which is disagreeable to the taste, and thus convert it into a palatable food, without sensibly diminishing its nutritious quality, which is 33 per cent, of gluten. When eaten frequently, and in large quantities, like nearly all food rich in gluten, cabbage has a binding tendency upon the system: hence the propriety of eating cabbage with fat and oily food. Bacon and greens, like pork and pease-pudding, is a conjunction of viands which does not owe its popularity either to old habit or to the mere taste of the epicure. It is in reality an admixture which constitutional experience has prescribed as better fitted to the after comfort of the alimentary canal of every healthy individual than either kind of Ibod eaten alone.—Johnston. Vegetable marrow is good in every stage of its growth: when young, fried in butter; when hall-grown, plainly boiled, or stewed, with sauce ; and when full-grown, in pies. When boiled and cut into dice, it makes an elegant garnish, alternately with dice of young carrots, for boiled fowls.«6 Hints for the Table. Ileal Brussels sprouts are rarely seen in England, and are nearly as scarce in France; no proper care being taken in their culture, apparently, but in the neighbourhood of Brussels. Here they are served boiled, with a sauce of vinegar, butter, and nut- meg, poured over them. Brussels tops are much more delicate than sprouts; in Belgium, the small cabbages are not esteemed if more than half an inch in diameter. A piece of fresh charcoal boiled with vegetables, will often counteract their bitterness. Sea-kale, unlike most other vegetables, is improved by forcing: the forced shoots produced at mid-winter being more crisp and delicate than those of natural growth in April and May. Mlien dressed, it is commonly served upon toasted bread, to soak up the water; but, when the kale is drained dry on a clean cloth, the toast is not requisite. In Ude’s time, sea-kale was not known in France. It was first brought into fashion in this country, hy Dr. Lettsom, in the year 1767. Kale is in perfection in January. Cardoous or thistle-heads, with Spanish sauce, though not much relished in England, are highly esteemed in France. They make a capital entremef, and may be selected as one of the finest efforts of cookery. Chou-croute is easy of digestion, and well adapted for flatulent stomachs. Captain Cook was so well aware of its anti-scorbutic qualities, that he kept his men three years in health at sea by the use of it two or three times a week; Chou-croute, in this country, is mostly stewed in gravy; but in Bavaria, it is boiled and mixed with butter and red wine, or juniper berries, aniseed, and caraways. Many persons are prejudiced against certain vegetables for no other reason than because they are not used to them, &c. For instance, we seldom hear of French Beans being cooked when in a dry state; yet, on the Continent, they are highly esteemed; and if given a fair trial here, we see no reason why they should not become as much used for soup making as peas. The Haricot Beans should be prepared as follows: Put the Haricots into cold water, boil them gently till the skins begin to crack, then pour away the water, which is always nauseous; have ready boiling water to supply its place; simmer the Haricots till tender. They must not be allowed to get cold whilst cooking, or they can never be boiled tender. TTJENIPS. Though yellow turnips are not much admired at table, they are87 Early Green Peas. equally palatable as, and much more nutritious than, the white. Sorrel gives flavour to turnip-tops, but is dangerous. The long French spindle-shaped turnip is of great excellence, and is much used in Germany, generally stewed.* In dressing turnips, never omit to mix with them a small lump of sugar, to overcome their bitter taste. Parsneps, from Teltow, a village in the neighbourhood of Berlin are a peculiar delicacy of the Prussian cuisine. PEAS. The French have a proverb : “ Eat green peas with the rich, and cherries with the poormeaning, we suppose, that peas re- quire to be nicely stewed with butter, flour, herbs, &c. Mr. Cobbett notes : “ The late King George III. reigned so long, that his birthday formed a sort of season with gardeners ; and ever since I became a man, I can recollect that it was always deemed a sign of bad gai'dening if there were not green peas in the garden tit to gather on the 4th of June.” A note in the fifth edition of Pennant’s London, states that when the editor (in 1812) visited Goldsmiths’ Hall, the more opulent members of the Company had experienced a severe dis- appointment in not being able to procure (on account of the back- wardness of the season) the customary supply of 52 quarts of green peas at their annual feast on the 29th of May. Five guineas per quart were offered; but, unable to obtain the full supply, they, either to prevent competition, or the disputes which might arise, wisely abstained from producing any of this enviable luxury. We suspect there is some error in this story. David Hume shrewdly observes : “ The same care and toil that raise a dish of green peas at Christmas, would give bread to a whole family during six months.” This is a calculation somewhat in the manner of Joseph Hume. SPINACH, ETC. Spinach is one of the wholesomest vegetables served at table, especially when simply dressed. It should be very carefully * Until the beginning of the eighteenth century, the turnip was only cultivated in England in gardens, or other small spots, for culinary pur- poses ; but Lord Townshend, attending King George I., as Secretary of State, to Germany, observed the turnips cultivated in fields, as fodder for cattle, and spreading fertility over lands naturally barren; on his return to England, he brought over with him some of the seed, and gave it to a few of his own tenants, who occupied soil similar to that at Hanover. It was sown, and the experiment succeeded: the cultivation of field turnips soon spread over the whole county of Norfolk; and gradually it has made its way into every other district of England.88 Ilivts for the Table. picked, so tliat no weeds or stalks are lel’t amongst it. The lea.st oversight may spoil the spinach in spite of the best cookery. New Zealand spinach supplies fresh leaves for use, when the crops of summer spinach are useless. Boiled beet-root, white haricot beans, and fried parsneps, are excellent accompaniments to roast mutton. Celeriac, or celerie rave, may be used in the kitchen for seven or eight months in succession. In Germany, it is eaten as salad. Hop-tops are eaten instead of asparagus, dressed in the same manner, and served with white sauce, melted butter, or oil. The nettle is truly a table plant: the young and tender nettle is an excellent pot-herb, and the stalks of the old nettle are as good as flax for making a tablecloth.— Campbell. The tomata is much less used in England than on the Conti- nent. Near Kome and Naples whole fields are covered with it; and scarcely a dinner is served in which it does not form a dish. In Spain, tomatas are di’ied, powdered, and bottled, and thus kept for an indefinite time; an excellent store gravy sauce may like- wise be made of them. The egg-plant in England is a mere green-house plant; but, in France the eggs are eaten in soups and stews. LATEE. It has been well observed, there is not, \ipon earth, in air, or sea, a single flavour (cost what it may to procure it), that mercantile opulence will not procure. Increase the difficulty, and you enlist vanity on the side of luxury; and make that be sought for, as a display of wealth, which was before valued only for the display of appetite. The doctrine is exemplified in laver, which is the sea liver-wort, a reddish sea-weed, forming a jelly when boiled, and eaten by some of the poor people in the Highlands with bread, instead of butter: it is there called sloTce, and is also used to make a broth. The rich of this country have elevated laver into one of the dainties of their table; it is generally served hot in a silver saucepan, or in a silver lamp-dish, and is excellent with roast mutton. It is curious to reflect that what is eaten at a duke’s table in St. James’s, as a first-rate luxury, is used by the poorest people of Scotland twice or thrice a day. Laver is also obtained in abundance upon the pebble beech, three miles long, near- Bideford. To a pound of laver add a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut, the juice of half a lemon, a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of glaze; stew for half an hour, and serve over a spirit lamp. In Ireland dilosk, or laver, is constantly served during the season with roast beef or roast mutton-Onion.—Horse-radish. 89 THE ONION, Tlie Britisli onion* is one of tho worst description, in compa- rison with the onions of Egypt and India, which are great deli- cacies. Spanish and Portuguese onions are mild, hut do not keep well: they are only in perfection from August to December, when great quantities are sent by the wine-growers in Spain and Portugal as presents to their customers in this country. A dish of Spanish onions stewed in brown gravy is a worthy accompaniment to a roast capon. Prom 700 to 800 tons of onions are imported every year from Spain and Portugal, and in these countries it forms one of the most common and universal supports of life; it is remarkably nutritious, and contains from 25 to 30 per cent, of gluten. The Spanish or Reading onion is large, flat, white, and mild, and resembles the Portugal onion, but is better adapted for cul- tivation in this climate. HOESE-BADISH. Several fatal cases of poisoning have occurred of late years by the accidental substitution of Monkshood, or Aconite, for Horse- radish. On January 22, 1856, three persons died at Dingwall, by this mistake at dinner. Hence it is important to note the distinctive characters between the two roots. Thus, Monkshood is conical in form, and tapers perceptibly to a point. Horse-radish is slightly conical, then cylindrical, and nearly of the same thickness throughout. Monkshood is coffee-coloured, or brownish, outside; while Horse-radish is white or yeUowish-white. Monkshood tastes at first bitter, and then produces tingling; whdo Horse-radish tastes bitter or sweet, and very pungent. The two roots, when scraped, are very different: Monkshood is succu- lent, and when scraped, soon turns pinkish; while Horse-radish scrapes firm and dry, and does not alter in colour. The odour of Monkshood is earthy; that of Horse-radish, in scraping, is very pungent and irritating. The only actual resemblance between the two roots is in their crowns, and that is very slight. It seems, therefore, most extraordinai'y that a cook should, by any possibility, confound the two roots; since, in prepar- ing them for the table, one could not but observe the (flfference in colour, form, and odour. * Sir Thomas Browne, in a letter to his son, Edward, dated 1676, says: “ I have heard that St. Omar was a place famous for good onyons, and furnished many parts thereivith; some were usually brought into England, and some transplanted, which were cryed about London, and by a mistako called St. Thomas onyons.”lllnU for the Table. 90 MUSHROOMS.—TRUFFLES. The value of Mushvooras as food has been underrated.* “ Tliey are second only,” says Cuthill, “ to beef and mutton. The price of mushrooms during winter is very high, and until people grow them more plentifully, they will he high priced. So, a|so, are sea- hale and asparagus. Yet these three vegetables are all natives of Britain.” The great mistake in cooking mushrooms has been want of attention to their condition; they should be perfectly fresh, and every hour they are kept tends to make them unwhole- some. The only simple test where doubts exist about tbe true edible mushrooms, is putting salt over the gills, which, if the mushrooms be genuine, will turn black in a short time, being exactly the colour of an old overgrown one. On poisonous fungi salt has no effect. No person need have the least doubt about mush- rooms grown by themselves, and from pure horse manure, and pure spawn; of course no one would think of mixing horse- chestnut leaves, or old decajed wood, with their bed. Poisonous mushrooms are only picked up by the town hawkei's, who hunt the fields, in which, from ignorance or carelessness, he is as likely to gather toad-stools a mushrooms.—J Cuthill, Gardener, Camherwell. Still, the large horse-mushroom, except for ketchup, should be veiy cautiously eaten. In wet seasons, or if produced on wet ground, it is very deleterious, if used in any great quantity'. “ There is no reason,” says a writer in the Athenmum, “for our eating one or two of the numberless edible funguses—mushrooms, truffles, &c.— which our island produces, and condemning all the rest as worse thm use- less, under the name of ‘ toad-stools.’ It is not so on the continent of Europe, where very generally the various species of fungi are esteemed agreeable and important articles of diet. The great drawback on the use of these esculents in this country is, that some are poisonous, and few persons possess the skill to distinguish them—with the exception of one or two species—&om those which are edible. In the markets at Borne there is an ‘ inspector of funguses’ versed in botany, and whose duty it is to examine and report on all such plants exposed for sale. The safety with which these vegetables may be eaten has led to a very large consumption in that city, where not less than 140,000 lbs., worth 4000?. sterling, are annually made use of. This in a population of 166,000! We cannot estimate the value of funguses in our own country for an article of diet as less than in ItaN, nor believe that the supply would be in a less raHo. If this be correct,*the value of the fimguses which are allowed to sprmg up and die, wasted in Great Britain, would be about half a million sterling in each year. Truffles were known as a delicacy by tbe ancients, and were * Nevertheless, the subject has received considerable attention in this country, as may be seen in Dr. Badham’s learned work On the Edible Funguses of England.Covent Garden Marlcet. 91 sppcicilly esteemed among the Romans as a dainty and favourite dish. They are veiy nourishing, and are said to be strong sti- mulants. They are used as an addition to meat pies, sauces, and ragouts, and a particular dish is made of them nearly' alone. They are also used for stuffing turkeys, game, &c. Truffies are marinaded (salted, and afterwards preserved in oil and vinegar), and sent principally from Aix, Avignon, Bordeaux, Perigord, Cette, and Nice, to all the principal towns of Europe, whei-e_ they are served up at table, even in w'inter. Truffles are likewise found in Ensrland, at Goodwood, in Sussex; Northwood, near Slindon and Irtham; at Broome, in Kent, and Castle-Edendean, in Durham. Herbs, when dried and pressed into cakes, and wrapped in paper, may be kept three years; but, by the common mode of hanging them up in loose bundles, herbs soon lose their odour. Herb mixture of equal proportions of knotted marjoram and winter savoury, with half the quantity of basil, thyme, and tarragon, dried, rubbed to powder, and kept in a closely-corked bottle, will be found useful for forcemeats and flavouring. Whole peas are preferable to split: the external eoat preserves the flour of the pea, which soon flies olf when the surface is exposed. The leaf of the bay is much narrower and more pointed than that of the cheiTy-laurel, and has a very fragrant smell: it is mostly sold by Italian warehousemen. The supplies of fruit and vegetables sent to Covent Garden market, in variety, excellence, and quantity, surpass those of all other countries. There is more certainty of being able to pur- chase a pine-apple here every day in the year, than in Jamaica and Calcutta, where pines are indigenous. Forced asparagus, potatoes, sea-kale, rhubarb-stalks, mushrooms, French beans, and early cucumbers, are to be had in January and February; in March, forced cherries, strawberries, and spring spinach ; in April, grapes, peaches, and melons, with early peas ; in May, all forced articles in abundance. The supply of forced flowers, of green- house plants, and in summer of hardy flowers and shrubs, is equally varied and abundant; and of curious herbs for domestic medicines, distilleries, &c., upwards of 500 species may be pro- cured at the shop of one herbalist. Beneath the arcade, at the early market hour, are stationed hawkers of account-books, dog-coUai's, whips, chains, curry-combs, pastry, money- bags, tissue-paper for the tops of strawberry-pottles, and horse-chestnut leaves for garnishing fruit-stoUs; coffee-stalls, and stalls of pea-soup and pickled eels; ba,sket-makers; women making up noseg^s; and girls splitting huge bundles of water-cresses into little bunches. Here are fruitsHints for the Talk. 92 and vegetables from all parts of the world: peas, and asparagus, and new potatoes, from the south of France, llelgium, Holland, J’ortugal, and the Bermudas, are brought in steam-vessels. Besides Deptford onions, Bat- tersea cabbages, Mortlake asparagus, Chelsea celery, and Charlton peas, immense quantities are brought by railway from Cornwall and Devon- shire, the Isle of Man, Guernsey anci Jersey, the Kentish and Essex banks of the Thames, the banks of the Humber, the Mersey, the Orwell, the Trent, and the Ouse. The Scilly Isles send early articles by steamer to Southampton, and thence to Covent Garden by railway. Strawberries are sent from gardens about Bath. The money paid annually for fruits and vegetables sold in this market is estimated at three millions sterling: for 6 or 700,000 pottles of strawberries; 40,0(X),000 cabbages; 2,000,000 cauli- flowers ; 300,000 bushels of peas; 760,000 lettuces; and 500,000 bushels of onions. In Centro-row, hothouse grapes arc sold at 25s. per pound, British Queen and Black Prince strawberries at Is. per ounce, slender French beans at 3s. per hundred, peas at a guinea a quart, and new potatoes at 4s. Qd. per lb.; a moss-rose for half-a-crown, and bouquets of flowers from one shilling to two guineas each. {Household Words, No. 176.) Green peas have been sold here at Christmas at 21. the quart, and asparagus and rhubarb at 16s. tli3 bundle. This relates to the supply of vegetables grown in England. Those of forced growth, from the Continent, are very early; but their flavour is inferior to those grown at home. The foreign green-fruit trade of Covent Garden is ver^-^ exten- sive in pine-apples, melons, cherries, apples, and pears. The cheap West India pine-apple trade dates from 1844, when pines were first cried in the streets “ a penny a slice.” Of the 250,000,000 oranges imported annually into England, comparatively few are sold in Covent Garden. Mr. Cuthill, the gardener, of Camberwell, states the ground under cul- tivation for the supply of the London markets to be about 12,000 acres occupied by vegetables, and about 6000 by fruit-trees. These lie chiefly in Middlesex, Essex, Hertford, and Bedford, north of the Thames, and Kent and SuiTey south; some 36,000 persons are employed on them. From distant counties are sent up the produce of acres of turnip-tops, cabbages, and peas; while himdreds of acres in Cornwall and Devon grow early potatoes, brocoli, peas, &c., which reach London by railway. The quantity of water-cresses annually sold in the principal whole- sale markets of London (above one-third of which are retailed in the streets) is as follows:—Covent Garden, 1,578,000 bunches; Farringdon, 12,960,000; Borough, 180,000; Spitalfields, 180,000; Portinan, 60,000; total, 14,968,000. The amount realized by the sale is 13,9491.—Henry Mayhew’s London Labour. Salads. Persons in health, who feel a craving for salad, may indulge in the enjoyment of it to a great extent with perfect impunity, if not with positive benefit. Oil, when mixed in salad, appears to render the raw vegetables and herbs more digestible. Vinegar likewise promotes the digestion of lettuce, celery, and beet-root.Salads. 93 Endive is very wholesome, strengthening, and easy of digestion; but when strong seasoning is added to it, it becomes an epicurean sauce.—Mai/o. Hecipe for a iVinter Salad, hy the late Rev. Sydney Smith. Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give. Of mordent mustard add a single spoon; Distrust the condiment which bites so soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, on the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tough, Aud ham and turkey are not boiled enough. Serenely full the Epicure may say,— Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day! The Spanish proverb says four persons are wanted to make a good salad : a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a counsellor for salt, and a madman to stir all up. The early long and short prickly cucumbers are much esteemed; Flanagan’s cucumber, nearly two feet long, is of superior cidspness and flavour; the white and long green Turkey are later fine varie- ties. The pride of first-rate horticultural establishments is to place a cucumber upon the table every day throughout the year. Cucumber dressed with oil and vinegar is a delicious accompani- ment to boiled salmon or turbot, and assists their digestion; though it cools the fish and sauce if it be eaten from the same plate. Salad should be “morning gathered;’’ and being washed, it should be covered up in a table-cloth, to exclude the air, and keep it fresh, until dried. To ensure ridding salad of insects, wash it in sea or salt water. The following are excellent salad ingre- dients :—essence of anchovies, soy, sugar, truffles, flavoured vinegars; black pepper is much used by the French. In the Netherlands, white chicory (endive) is sold at a very cheap rate early in the spring, and supplies a grateful salad long before lettuces are to be had; so that a two-penny bundle will fill a salad-bowl. The roots are taken up, dried, and ground, as a substitute for cofiee.94 llinis for the Table. Walnut-oil may bo used in salads. Sunflower-seed oil is a.s ! sweet as butter, and is much used in Eussian cookery. In preparing a salad, it is a common mistake to wash lettuces; ! they ought never to be wetted; they thus lose their crispness, and are pro tanto destroyed. If you can get nothing but wet | lettuces, you had certainly better dry them; but, if you wisli for a good salad, cut the lettuce fresh from the garden, take off the outside leaves, cut or rather break it into a salad bowl, and mix it with the sauce the minute before it is eaten. It is ^ surprising that we do not hear more of the effects of swallowing the eggs or lai’va of insects, with raw salads. Fami- lies who can afford it should keep a small cistern of salt water, or lime and water (to be frequently renewed), into wluch all vegetables to be used raw should be first plunged for a minute, and then washed in pure fresh water. Parmentier’s salad vinegar is made as follows:—Shalots, sweet savoury, chives, and tarragon, of each three ounces; two table- spoonfuls of dried mint-leaves, and the same of balm; beat these together in a mortar, and put them into a stone gallon bottle; fill up with strong white-wine vinegar, cork it securely, and let it stand a fortnight exposed to the sun, when filter it through a flannel bag. Sweet Dishes. Pastey is digested with difficulty, in consequence of the oil which it contains; puddings, from their heaviness, that is, close- ness of texture; in proportion as they are light, they become digestible.—{Mayo.) Pastry is so abundant at Damascus as to cost scarcely anything: Lamartine says he never saw so many varieties elsewhere. The Italians often put sugar into their paste. A green apricot tart is commonly considered the best tart that is made; but a green apricot pudding is better. The difference between a tart and a tourte is, that the first is always covered with paste, whilst the latter is sent to table open, or with a trellis-work of paste over the fruit. A plum-pudding is hardly ever boiled enough; a fault which reminds one of a predicament in which Lord Byron once found himself in Italy. He had made up his mind to have a plum- pudding on his bii'thday, and busied himself a whole morning in giving minute directions to pi-event the chance of a mishap; yet, after all the pains he had taken, and the anxiety he must have undergone, the pudding appeared in a timeen, and of about the consistency of soup.Preserves, 95 Plum-broth or porridge was eaten as soup at Christmas, at St. James’s, during the reign of George III.; and a portion of it was sent to tlie different officers of his Majesty’s household. The following is a list of the ingredients :— 6 dozen sherry. If soufflds are sent up in proper time, they are very good eating j if not, they are no better than other puddings. The French make a delicate jelly from the juice of very ripe grapes, with a much less proportion of sugar than we employ in our fruit jellies. Calf’s foot jelly is a monotone ; but the sagacity of the cook will, in some re.spect, alter this character, by occa- sionally giving it plain, at other times with grapes, &c., in it. Jelly and jam have been prepared from the tender leaf-stalks of the red rhubarb; their flavour being equal, if not superior, to that of currant jelly. Many years ago Prince Metternich first tasted rhubarb tart in England, and was so pleased with it that he took care to send some plants to his Austrian garden. On the occasion of a large party, in the following year, the Prince ordered rhubarb to be sei-ved up, di’essed as it was in England. His cook knew nothing of English usage, and, selecting the large leaves, served them up as spinach. The guests made wry faces at this English dish, and well they might; and rhubarb was discarded from that time from the Prince’s table. Blackberry jelly, made as currant jelly, is commonly used in the north of England in tarts. A large spoonful in an apple-tart not only colours it, but gives it a sort of plum flavour. Baked pears, of fine crimson colour, and served in cut glass, make an elegant and economical supper dish. Barberries, without stones, make an elegant preserve; and the other kind, with stones, is pretty garnish. The white bullace mostly abounds in Norfolk: it is excellent in tarts, and when preserved by boiling in sugar, it may be kept a year. Magnum-bonum plums are only fit for tarts and sweet- meats. Magnum is right enough; but as to honum, the word has seldom been so completely misapplied.—Cobbett. A plum of recent introduction is likely to supersede some of the 6 suins of beef. 60 fourpenny loaves. Double refined sugar, 601b. 160 lemons and oranges. 6 dozen sack. 6 dozen old hock. Leg of veal, 401b. 401b. raisins. 401b. currants. 301b. prunes. Cochineal. 1 ounce nutmeg. \ oimce cinnamon, i ounce cloves.Hints for the Table. 96 old sorts. It is called the Victoria plum; it thrives everywhere, is prolific, handsome, and good in flavour. It will, there is no doubt, for centuries to come, maintain its form, and remind people of the reign of good Queen Victoria. The winesour is the most valuable of all our plums for preserving, and great quantities preserved are sent annually from Wakefield and Leeds to distant parts of England. They will keep one or two years, and are preferable to those imported from abroad. Preserves and jellies made in copper vessels are always con- taminated more or less with copper; and in green preseiwes, copper is used intentionally for increasing the colour. The jellies in bottles, and those sold by confectioners as isinglass and calf’s- foot jelly, consist principally of gelatine, variously coloured. Bottled fruits and preserved vegetables are subject to the same poisonous processes as in pickling. Thus, goosebei’ries and gages are greened, by copper. Red fruits have their colour heightened by beet-root, especially if they are damaged, or of inferior quality. Orange marmalade, when genuine, consists wholl3’’ of the Seville or bitter orange; but, for cheapness’ sake, is frequently adulterated with sweet oranges, apples, and turnips. A yellow kind of Swede turnip is much used for this purpose; and partly decayed and even sucked oranges are used in the spurious mar- malade. Richmond “Maids of Honour” are delicious cheese-cakes, peculiar to Richmond in Surrey, and doubtless named from its regal days, when Richmond had its royal palace and court. It is stated that one thousand pounds was once paid to the fortunate possessor of the receipt lor making this cheese-cake, with the good-will of the business, said to have been originally established in Hill Street, Richmond. George III. had his tables at Windsor Castle and Kew regularly supplied with these cheese-cakes.— Things not Generally Known. Macaroons are many hundred years old; for we find them men- tioned as a kind of delicate sweetmeat placed before hermits by hospitable persons. The poisonous essential oil of bitter almonds, or “ flavouring,” as it is called, is now prepared by chemists for the use of dealers in cordials, to make the genuine “ noyeauand for confectioners and cooks, to give a fine bitter flavour to custards, cakes, &c. Many of the baneful effects which have been so frequently attri- buted to confectionary and the use of copper vessels, have pro- bably been produced by this poison. Although the poisonous nature of black-cherry water has long been known, it is still em- ployed in cookery and confectionary to a dangerous extent.The Ice-well. 97 Ices were introduced into France so early as the middle ol’ the seventeenth century. Collee ice is made by placing a bowl of strong coffee with sugar- candy and cream iu an ice-pail till quite frozen. Some persons are of opinion that when any article is iced it loses its sweetness, and that it ought, therefore, to have an addi- tional quantity of sugar, which opinion is not correct; for the diminution of the sweetness arises from the materials not being properly mi.xed, when in the freezing-pot. In ices that are badly mixed, the sugar sinks to the bottom, and they have, necessarily, a sharp unpleasant taste.—Jarrin. An ice-well should be larger round than it is deep, for it is a common error to imagine that the deeper the well is the better ; on the contraiy, we know that the water naturally runs towards the depth, and drawing towards the walls, penetrates through the brickwork, and produces a humidity that melts the ice. To avoid this, a good well should be built with double walls, at the distance of eighteen inches or two feet apart, and the interval filled ujj with ashes, or any other matter of absorbent quality.— Jamn.* Bread. The nourishment in bread has, probably, been much overrated. Bread is known to constitute the chief food of the French pea- santry. They are a very temperate race of men, and they live in a fine dry climate. Yet, the duration of life amongst them is very short, scarcely exceeding two-thirds of the average duration of life in England. New bread is an ai-ticle of food most difficult of digestion. Everything which by mastication forms a tenacious paste, is in- digestible, being slowly pervaded by the gastric juice. Even bread sufficiently old, which it never is till it is quite dry, is fre- quently oppressive if taken alone and in considerable quantity. The sailor’s biscuit, or bread toasted very hard, often agrees better with a weak stomach than bread in other states.—Dr. Philip. Brown bread is recommended to invalids, for its containing ' O * Ice is nearly as expensive in England as in much warmer climates; in inild seasons, it has even been imported into this country by shiploads. In Kew York, carts of ice are driven for sale, in small quantities, all over the city. Iced soda-water, from the fountain, is in almost universal use, and is sold in almost every street; it is dehciously prepared, and frequently flavoured with lemon syrup; the priee is three-pence for a tumbler. HllinU for the Table. trau, which is known to possess a resinous purgative substance; hut the efficacy of its aperient quality is generally counteracted by the bread being made too fine. In Savoy, bread is baked in thin stick-like pieces, about four feet in length, so as to be literally the staff of life. In France, bread is often baked in large rings, for the convenience of carry- ing on the arm. Salt in bread is very important. Lord Somerville relates that the ancient laws of Holland sentenced men to be kept on bread alone, unmixed with salt, as the severest punishment in a moist climate; and the effect was horrible. The French bakers do not put so much salt into their bread as the English bakers do: in fact, French bread is insipid to an English palate, whilst the Frenchman shrinks from the quantity •of salt commonly used by our bakers. The beau-ideal of Ariglo-Indian bread is, that it should be •excessively white, utterly tasteless, and as light as a powder-puff; when toasted, and eaten dry with tea, it is tolerably good; but Bishop Heher says, he would as soon bestow butter on an empty boney-comb, which it marvellously resembles in dryness, brittle- ness, and apparent absence ot all nourishing qualities. It is lamentable to see fine wheat so perversely turned into mere hair- powder. Soda-bread, or bread made with soda instead of yeast, is much eaten in the United States of America. Apple-bread, that is, bread made with the addition of the pulp •of apples, is much eaten in France. Biscuit is digestible from its crispness and shortness, being readily separable and broken into minute fragments. A biscuit eaten about the middle of the day will preserve the tone of the stomach, which is debilitated by long fasting: it is, therefore, a good luncheon. The public are greatly in error in supposing the Abernethy biscuit, sold by most bakers, to have been the fa- vourite breaklast of the celebrated surgeon of that name; for this biscuit was named after Abernethy, the Scotch baker who first made it. Macaroni may be termed the Italian’s staff of life: in Italy, it is the principal food of the lower orders; but in England it is •only found upon the tables of the rich, owing to the enormous price at which it is sold; and which price is justified on the plea that it cannot be so well manufactured here. The Italian pro- •cess is, however, so simple, that with the finest wheat, which, if not grown in England, may always be obtained here, as good macaroni might he made here as in Italy: at least, such is the opinion of those who have witnessed the manufacture of macaroni in Italy.99 Varieties of Cheese. Cheese and Butter. The practice of mixing herbs (as sage) in cheese, is as old as the time of Charlemagne. The mosaic arms upon such cheese are essentially feudal. Old cheese, taken in small quantities, after dinner, is an excel- lent digester, by causing chemical changes among the particles of food previously eaten, and thus facilitating the dissolution which necessarily precedes digestion. The fine powder which we perceive upon a decaying cheese, and which is so highly prized by the gourmand, proceeds from the grubs of the cheese-mite. The finest cream cheese is that of Cottenham and Southam, in Cambridgeshire; Banbury, Bath, and York. To improve a new Stilton cheese, scoop out a few samples of it, and fill the spaces with samples taken from an old cheese, con- fining blue mould: cover up the cheese for a few weeks, and it will become impregnated with the mould, and have the flavour of a ripe old one. The new samples, if put into the old cheese, will be changed vice-versd. The cheese of this country, known by the name of “ Trent Bank,” is a good substitute for Parmesan. Pai-mesan cheese is made in the country between Cremona and Lodi, the richest part of the Milanese. The milk of at least 50 cows is required for one cheese; and, as one farm rarely aflbrds pasture for such a number, it is usual for the farmers to club together: the best kind of cheese is kept for three or four years before it is taken to mai'ket. Schabziger cheese is principally made at Liirthal, in the canton of Glarus. The herb {Kle) gives the flavour and green colour, and having been chded and powdered, is gi-ound in a mill with the curd, and then made into shapes, and dried. Cheese, when stewed with ale, is much easier of digestion than when toasted. The only post-prandial item at the Beef-Steak Society is a stew of cheese in a silver dish. There is a popular notion that “butter h biliouswhich means that it increases the secretion of bile to an inconvenient degree. This may probably be the case with some dyspeptics; but when used in moderation, butter has certainly not this effect with the majority of persons. The substitution of orange mar- malade for butter at breakfast, though strongly recommended by certain manufacturers, is by no means desirable; as so powerful a bitter cannot be taken frequently with advantage. Butter may be kept cool in hot weather by placing the diau or pot in cold spring water, in which a little saltpetre is dissolved.100 Ilinls for the Tahle. Till) butter of Epping and Cambridge is thought to be only conceitedly in the highest repute; though its superiority is thus explained. The cows which produce the former leed during the summer in shrubby pastures; and the leaves of the trees and numerous wild plants which there abound are supposed to im- prove the butter. The Cambridgeshire butter is produced from cows that feed one part of the year on chalky uplands, and the other on rich meadows or fens; which alternation is thought to explain its excellence. The London dealers having washed and repacked Irish butter, often sell it as Devon and Cambridge butter. Dutch butter and cheese have associations of extreme cleanli- ness ; for, so scrupulous are the makers, that hare hands are never allowed to come in contact with the materials. Malt Liquors. There is a general prejudice against beer in the case of the bilioirs and the sedentaiy; but it appears without foundation. Bilious people are such as have weak stomachs and impaired di- gestion, and those who are sedentary are nearly in these respects always in a similar state. Now, beer does not tend to weaken such stomachs, to become acescent (sour), or otherwise to dis- agree with them : on the contrary, it will be found, in the majority of cases, that beer agrees with them much better than wine, since it is far less disposed to acescence, better fitted to act as a sto- machic, and, therefore, to invigorate both the digestive organs and the constitution at lai-ge. Of course, sound home-brewed beer of a moderate strength is here referred to: no man can answer for the effects of the stuff usually sold as beer, and strong ale is always difficult of digestion. Lord Bacon attributes anti-consumptive viitues to ale; with- out crediting them. Dr. Hodgkin asserts, from well jiroved expe- rience, that the invalid who has been reduced almost to extremity" by severe or lingering illness, finds in well-apportioned draughts of sound beer one of the most important helps to his recovery of health, strength, and spirits. In beer, the nutritive matters derived from the grain vary from four to eight per cent., so that beer is food as well as drink. A little beef eaten with it makes up the deficiency in gluten as compared with milk, so that beef, beer, and bread, our character- istic English diet, are most philosophically put together to sus- tain and to stimulate the bodily powers. Strong ales have about the same strength and influence as hock, and the light French wines; but they contain, in addition, and as distinguishing them from the wines, the nutritive matters of101 Malt Liquors. the extract derived from the grain (from four to eight per cent.), and the bitter of the liop. Hops possess a strong narcotic principle, so that the purest beer produces an effect upon the brain, if taken in considerable quantity. The sleepiness which follows its use shows this, as well as the fate of those who are addicted to it. In seven cases out of ten, malt-liquor drunkards die of apoplexy or palsy. A very moderate use, during dinner, of a beer not containing much nutritious matter, or too much hop, is allowable to most persons ; but it should be thoroughly fermented or purified, and not be hard or stale. In one of Lord Normanby’s novels, a gallant attempt is made to disabuse the public as to beer : “ Is not that a lashionable novelist opposite?” says an exquisite; “Well, I’ll astonish the fellow;—here, bring me a glass of table-beei’.” Belgium has, for ages, been celebrated for its beer ; the finest is brewed at Louvain, where 200,000 casks are made annually, and a great deal exported. Beer is probably more drunk in Bavaria than in any other country. The late king was so fond of this drink, as to be per- sonally acquainted with the interior of every beer-shop in his capital; and when you see a Bavarian peasant not working, }'ou are sure to find him with a beer-can in his hand. Yet, there is no sign of poverty throughout the country. Nothing can be more generally wholesome than good table- beer; and it is to be lamented that table-beer is so rarely met with in the perfection of which it is capable. Sydenham, in his last treatise, writes, “ a draught of small beer is to me instead of a supper, and I take another draught when I am in bed, and about to compose myself to sleep.” Porter is nominally cheaper when bought by the pint from the publican, than when obtained by the eighteen-gallon cask from the brewer; a fact which proves the adulteration of the retailer. A familiar instance of the good eH'ect of “ the voyage ” on fer- mented liquors, is observable in the Loudon porter drank in the Isle of Wight, which is materially benefited b}'' the short sea-carriage. The excellence of the Burton ale proves to be the result of the water of which it is manufactured flowing over a limestone rock. In the last century, this fact was ingeniousl}'' explained by Dr. Darwin, upon the supposition that some of the saccharine matter in the malt combined with the calcareous earth in the water, and formed a sort of mineral sugai’, which, like true sugar, is con- vertible into spirit. Although cwrr-dda, or Welsh ale, is very mild, it is very strong, and a Welshman is generally as proud as he is fond of it.102 Hints for the Talk. In the neighbouring county of Gloucester, however, a glass of good mild ale is sought for in vain.—Nimrod. BITTEE BEEE. None of the substances which have been employed or recom- mended to replace or supplant the use of the hop approach it in imparting those peculiar properties which have given the Englisli hitter beer of the present day its high reputation. The love of beer and hops has been planted by Englishmen in America. It has accompanied them to their new empires in Australia, New Zealand, and the Cape. In the East, their home-taste remains unquenched, and the pale ale of England follows them to re- motest India.—F. W. Johnston. In the year 1850, it was asserted by M. Payen, that strychnine was commonly employed by brewers in the manufactiu-e of “bitter beer,” or “pale ale;” when the chief brewing firm of England, Messrs. Allsopp and Sons publicly denied, in the most unequivocal terms, that strychnine, or any other deleterious sub- stance, was ever employed by them in the manufacture of their beer.* And, on forty samples of their ales being examined by the “ Analytical Sanitary Commission,” they were all found to consist of the products of malt and hoys, and the constituents of yure syring-water, no other ingredient of any kind being discovered, either organic or inorganic. Subsequently, M. Payen explained, acknowledging that his statement was “ far from being based upon ascertained facts.” “ These bitter beers,” says the Lancet, “ differ from all other preparations of malt, in containing a smaller amount of extractive matter, thus being less viscid and saccharine, and consequently more easy of digestion ; they resemble, indeed, from their lightness, a wine of malt rather than an ordinary fer- mented infusion, and it is very satisfactory to find that a beverage of such general consumption is entirely free from every kind of impurity.” CIDEE AND PEEEY. Ciders contain little extractive, or solid nutritious matter. No bitter or narcotic ingredient has been added to them. They contain, on an average, about nine per cent, of alcohol—thus, resembling in strength the common hock, the weaker cham- pagnes, and our stronger English ales. In Normandy not less than 5000 difierently-named varieties of the acid or bitter apple are known, and grown for the manu- facture of cider. Some of these varieties are distinguished by as many as eighteen diflerent names. * Messrs Allsopp commenced building, in 1868, the largest brewery in the world, for brewing Pale Ale only.The Dessert. lOS To render cider fine and mellow, suspend two or three pairs of calves’ feet, either raw or boiled, in each hogshead, through the bunghole. This mellowness is at present badly imitated by the use of brimstone, which gives an unpleasant smatch to the cider. Or, a pint of mustard-seed put into each hogshead will prevent the cider becoming hard, and render one racking sufficient. Great quantities of perry are made in Hei'efordshire, for mixing with new port wine. The Teinton squash pear produces perry of the very highest quality, something approaching in colour and briskness to champagne, for which samples of it haver- been sold. The Dessert. Who, enjoying the rich productions of our present state of horti- culture, can recur without wonder to the tables of onr ancestors ? They knew absolutely nothing of vegetables in a culinary sense. ’Tis curious to reflect, that at the vast baronial feasts, in the days of the Plantagenets and Tudors, where we read of such onslaught of beeves, muttons, hogs, fowls, and fish, the courtly knights and beauteous dames had no other vegetable save bread—not even a potato ? They carved at the meal with their gloves of steel. And drank the red-wine through the helmet barr’d. And, when the cloth was drawn, they had scarce an apple to give zest to their wine. We read of roasted crabs; and, mayhap, they had baked acorns and pignuts—Caliban’s dainties. Now, we have wholesome vegetables almost for nothing, and, thanks to Mr. Knight, pine-apples for a trifle.—Dovaston. Forced fruits, which are obtained at a period when there is little light, cannot be compared with those which are matmed in the full blaze of a summer’s sun; hence, melons grown in frames covered with mats, and carefully excluded from the influence of that solar light which is indispensable to them, have, whatever may be their external beauty, none of that luscious flavour which the melon, when well cultivated, possesses in so eminent a degree.—Lindley. The advantage of allowing ripe fruit to remain on the trees is not merely its production late in the season; for, if ripe goose- ben-ies or currants be permitted to hang on the bush, additional saccharine matter seems to be elaborated, watery particles evaporate, and the fruit becomes much sweeter. In the south of Italy, bunches of grapes are hung from the ceiling of rooms, and in out-sheds ; when the taste acquired is sweeter than before, and the flavour ol’ the raisin predominates. Fruits of all kinds may be dried and kept a year or two, with-Hints for the Table. 104 out losing their flavour, by wiping them and putting them into a cool brick oven: occasionally while drying, grate a little sugar over them. THE PINE-APPLE.—MELON.—GKAPES. Since “ Pine-apples a penny a slice ” was added to the cries of London, in 1844, gi-eat improvement has been made in the culture of the Pines in Eleuthera, one of the Bahamas, and Nassau in New Providence, whence this now economical luxury was first shipped. A new mode of packing—each pine being carefully inclosed within its own leaves—causes the fruit to arrive in much finer condition than heretofore. The pine-plants in the West Indies bear for only three years ; the last year’s growth are sent on the trees to England. Eleuthera and Governor Island are equally celebrated for their pines and their turtles. At the beginning of the last century, pine-apples were very rare even at the tables of our nobility; but in no country of the world has their culture been brought to such high perfection as in England. At the coronation banquet of George IV. was a pine weighing 10 pounds; and nine-and-twenty years later, there were at a banquet at York, two “ Koyal Providence” pines, each weighing nearly 15 lbs. Of pine-apples, the new and curious sorts are generally inferior in flavour to the old kinds; as the queen, oval-shaped, and of gold colour, and the black Antigua, with pale yellow flesh. In preparing to serve a pine-apple, first remove the crown, by placing round it a napkin, and twisting it out, and then cut the fruit with the pine-knife into horizontal slices; these being served, the scales and rind are pared off by the guest. Pine-apples may be kept a considerable time by twisting off their crowns, which are generally suffered to remain and live upon the fruit, till they have sucked out nearly all the goodness. Pine-apples at Singapore (says Lord Jocelyn), although not equal to those of English hot-house growth, bear no comparison, from their superior flavour, with the same fruit of either East or West Indian growth. Here they are in such abundance that captains of ships frequently purchase them by cartloads to scour their decks ; which, from the acidity they possess, they have the property of whitening. We may add that the acridity of some of the early imported economical pines had a similar effect upon the mouths of the eaters. Of melons, the darkest outside, deepest tint in the flesh, and moderate size, have the highest flavour; the netted and knobbed kinds are rich, sweet, and juicy. The winter melons should be hung up in nets in a dry room. Melons, according to Lieutenant Burnes, are finer in Bokhara105 Pines.—JiLelons.— Grapes. than in any other part of the world. They are very large, and no fruit can be more luscious. The melons of India, Cabool, and Persia, bear no compaidson with them ; and even the celebrated fruit from Ispahan itself. The water-melons of Bokhara are good, and attain an enormous bulk; twenty persons may partake of one; and two of them, it is said, sometimes form a load for a donkey. A West Indian water-melon, according to Monk Lewis, has been much overrated: he says, “ I never met with a worse article in my life; the pulp is of a faint greenish yellow, stained here and there with spots of moist red, so that it looks exactly as if the servant in slicing it, had cut his finger, and suffered it to bleed over it. Then the seeds being of a dark purple, present the happiest imitation of clotted gore; and, altogether, (prejudiced as 1 was by its appearance,) when I had put a single bit into my mouth, it had such a kind of Shylocky taste of raw flesh about it (not that I recollect ever having eaten a bit of raw flesh itself), that I sent away my plate, and was perfectly satisfied as to the merit of the fruit.” Grapes should bear a blooming freshness: when the stalks are dry, the fruit is mostly stale. The following are choice varieties : black Damascus, Lisbon, and Prontignac, with round berries; black Muscadine and Hamburgh, with long berries; Prontignac and sweet-water, with round white berries ; Muscats, with long white berries; red Hamburgh and Muscat. Grapes may be freshened by cutting the stalk of each bunch, and placing it in wine, as flowers are placed in water. The bloom of plums, grapes, cucumbers, or other fruit, may be restored by lightly dusting over them calcined magnesia. THE STSAWBEEKT.—EASPBEERY.—CHEEEIES, ETC. The old Bohemian strawberry, the hautbois, was long a favourite, and men still keep up the cry in London of “ Pine hautbois,” though very few go into the market. The arrival of the old scarlet strawberry from America was an era in strawberry culture. This was succeeded by the Carolina. Our experimen- talists began the task of improvement, and with very great suc- cess. Strawberries are now triple the size they were, are more prolific, better in flavour, and the period of production is prolonged by the observing of early and late sorts. To improve the flavour of strawberries, squeeze each gently with a spoon, and the advantage will be similar to that of boiling the potato. Strawberries can be had in perfection only in dry weather, I'or a very slight shower will render this fruit compara- tively flavourless. Kaspberries should be eaten as soon after they are gathered asHints for the Table. 106 possible; since they lose much of their flavour in a few hours. Mulberries should also be eaten only when fresh gathered. The finest dessert cherries are the Mayduke, Bigarreau, white- heart Waterloo, and black-heart. Dried cherries are a very useful article for the dessert in winter and spring. They are gathered when ripe, kept free from bruises, and dried upon earthenware dishes in a very cool oven. _ Large gooseberries have mostly less flavour than the smaller kinds. The yellow gooseberries have generally a much richer and more vinous flavour than the white. The Warrington red is perhaps the best dessert fruit. The white Dutch currants, with yellow fruit, are by far the sweetest and are preferable for dessert. PLUMS. Plums ripen nearly throughout six months in the year : among the fine dessert varieties are the green-gage, violette, eaidy Orleans, and Morocco; Cox’s plum, the Imperatrice, oblong, with thick bloom; the nectarine, purple g<ige, and violet diaper. A fine green-gage has a yellowish-green skin with a purplish tint, marbled with russety,muddy red; the flesh is very melting, and the juice abundant, sugary, and of delicious flavour. The cherry plum, like the Bigarreau cheny, is very handsome in the dessert. Cox’s plum has been kept twelve months, by wrapping it in soft paper, and storing it in a dry room. Green-gages, when grown upon a healthy standard, though not so large, are much richer than when they are produced against a wall. The Brignole plum is named from Brignole, a town of France, famous for its prunes, of which this ranks among the best sorts. Prunes, on the Continent, are stewed, and served as a winter dessert-dish; but in this country they are mostly used in medi- cine. They are prepared in France chiefly from the St. Catharine plum; and in Portugal, from a plum which is named from the village of Guimarens, where they are principally dried. They contain so large a quantity of sugar, that brandy is distilled from them when fermented; and it has even been proposed to manu- facture sugar from them. PEACH, ETC. Peaches of the best kind have the flesh firm, the skin thin, of a deep or bright red colom- next the sun, and of a yellowish-green next the wall; the pulp should be yellowish, highly flavoured, and juicy, and the stone small. Nectarines should be chosen by the same rule as peaches. The peach-apricot is finest and largest; but the old Moor Park apricot is much prized.The Dessert. 107 The leaves of peach, nectarine, and apricot trees, as well as the kernels of the 0-uit, give a noyeau flavour by infusion in water, or in spirits; but theii' use is dangerous. APPLES.—PEAKS, ETC. Apples for the table should have a fine juicy pulp, high flavour, regular form, and beautiful colouring; as, the golden reinette, with a fine aromatic, sub-acid flavour; the old nonpareil, of agreeable briskness; and the foreman’s-crew, combining the excellence of the old golden pippin and nonpareil. The Golden Pippin has been considered by some of our modern writers on pomology to be in a state of decay, its fniit of inferior quality in comparison with that of former times, and its exis- tence near its termination. Dr. Lindley, in his Ghdde to the Orchard and Kitchen Garden, says:— “ I cannot for a moment agree with such an opinion, because we have facts anmmlly before our eyes completely at variance with such an asser- tion. Any person visiting Covent Garden or the Borough markets during the fruit season, and indeed any other large market m the southern or midland counties of England, will find specimens of fruit as perfect and as fine as any which have been either figured or described. In favourable situations, in many parts of the country, instead of the trees being in a state of rapid decay, they may be found of unusually large size, perfectly healthy, and their crops abundant; the fruit perfect in form, beautiful in colour, and excellent in quahty. Medlars are not good till they are rotten-ripe: the Dutch apple-shape is the largest and handsomest; but the Nottingham is of superior quality. Biffins are the Norfolk beauffin apples. Many thousands are dried by the bakers in Norwich annually, and sent in boxes to all parts of the country. Pears for dessert should have a sugary, aromatic juice, and soft melting pulp ; as in the beurrSe, or butter pears. Among the summer-kinds are the Jargonelle and Williams’s Bonchr6- tienne; autumn, bergamot, Angouleme, Gansel bergamot, Marie Louise, and Napoleon; winter, Chaumontelle, Colmar, Crasanne, and swan’s egg. Chaumontelle pears are so fine in Jersey as to sell there for five guineas the hundred, each pear weighing about one pound. Two, which were exhibited at the Jersey Horticultural Society^ in 1835, and sent as a present to William IV., weighed 96 oz., or 6 lb. each. Some of the baking pears attain a vast size. Pears may be kept by tipping their stalks with sealing-wax. FILBEETS, WALNUTS, CHESTNUTS. Filberts with red skins have a finer flavour than those with white. The “ Spanish” nuts of the shops are fresh from Spain; the “ Barcelona” being another kind, kiln-dried. Old nuts of all108 Hints for the Talle. kinds are mostly fumigated with sulplmr, and thus made to resemble externally those of the current season. Filberts are thus preserved in Turkey:—When quite ripe, remove the husks, and rub the nuts dry with a coarse cloth; sprinkle a little salt in a stone jar, then place a layer of filberts, adding a small quantity of salt between each layer; tie the jar •over, keep it in a dry place, and in six months the filberts may be easily peeled. If walnuts be shrivelled, soak them in milk and water for about eight hours before serving them, and they will become plump, and peel easily. Chestnuts are heavy', and difficult of digestion. But their digestibility is much increased by the perfectness with which they are roasted and masticated. Boasted chestnuts should be served very hot, in a folded napkin. Chestniits are sold at the corners of every street in Florence, in seven different forms; raw, cooked, and hot, both roasted and boiled; dried by heat (the skins being taken off), in which state they have a much sweeter and superior flavour; made into bread, a stiff sort of pudding, and into thin cakes, like pancakes. By the confectioners of Paris they are sold peeled, baked, and iced with sugar, as “ Marrons glacis.” PIGS AND DATES. The fig, even in a perfectly dry state, is about as nutritious as rice. In the moist state, as imported, the fig will go considerably further in feeding and fattening than an equal weight of wheaten bread.—J. F. W. Johnston. Dates were formerly little esteemed in England, as they were dry and old when imported, in which condition they would scarcely' be used in the countries where they grow. The best dates ai'e, however, firm, soft and fleshy, and when fresh, possess a delicious fragrance and perfume; they are also sugary, and very nourish - ing. The Ai'abs say that a good housewife will daily furnish her lord, for a month, a dish of dates differently dressed. This test of domestic economy reminds one of a clever man, who chose liis wife by her making an apple-pudding. Brazil nuts are very delicious when fresh ; but, unfortunately, 'they are apt to become rancid, on account of the great quantity of oil which they' contain, which is well suited for lamps. THE ORANGE. The orange is a magnificent fruit. In the Azores (as in St. Michael), it requires but seven years to bring an orange planta- tion to good bearing; and each tree, a few years after arriving109 Oranges,— Olives. at full growth, will annually, uiion an average, produce from 12,000 to 16,000 oranges; indeed, 26,000 have been_ gathered. In its native country, a single orange, when cut, will fill a deep dessert plate with its juice. There is a species of epicurism peculiar to the Azores, witli respect to oranges, particularly observed by the higher classes, who only eat that side which has been exposed to the sun, and is, of course, in its fresh state, easily distinguishable by the tint —a retinement we are unable to imitate, the colour being rendered uniform by age. The clove, or mandarin, with a loose skin, is the most delicate orange. Oranges in Jamaica, for richness of flavour and for sweetness, cannot be surpassed. Indeed, a bitter or sour orange is rarely to be met with there. Oranges grown in England should be gathered just as the fruit begins to colour; they should then be kept in a w^arm room for about a fortnight before they are sent to table, by which means the peel will be very soft, and the juice more delicious. The shaddock is a handsome, though not a delicious, addition to our dessert; the flavour of its juice being a sweetish acid, in- termediate between that of the orange and the lemon, with rather a bitter taste. From Italy is brought a stoeet lemon, with the colour and shape of an orange, except that at the stalk end is a depression, and on this a prominence, as in the lemon; but within it has the pale pulp of the lemon, and sweet juice. At Naples, in the month of March, may be bought several varieties of grapes, kept tlu'ough the winter, not much shrivelled, and free from mouldiness. Oi’anges are so cheap, as to allow the poorest of the poor to enjoy (what Dr.'Johnson complained he never had of peaches but once) their fill of them, and that daii}"; the best being sold at the rate of ten for an English penny. OLIVES. Olives are a green, unripe kind of plum, deprived of part of their bitterness by soaking them in water, and then preserving them in an aromatised solution of salt. The most common varieties are the small French and the large Spanish Olive. Olives a la, picholine (i.e. of the smallest kind,) have been soaked in a solution of lime or alkali. There is etiquette in eating olives. Cardinal Eichelieu is said to have detected an adventurer, who was passing himself olf as a nobleman, by his helping himself to olives with a fork^ it being comme ilfaut to use the fingers for that purpose.Hints for the Table. 110 Wines. Bpeke’s reasons why the great and rich should have their share of wine, ai-e amusing. He says: “ They are among the unhappy; they feel personal pain and domestic sorrow; they pay their full contingent to the contributions levied on mortality in these matters; therefore, they require this sovereign balm.” “ Some charitable dole,” adds he, “ is wanting to these, our often very unhappy brethren, to fill the gloomy void that reigns in minds which have nothing on earth to hope or fear; something to relieve the killing languor and over-laboured lassi- tude of those who have nothing to do.” Dr. Bence Jones has determined, by means of the alcoholometer of M. Geisler of Bonn, the strength of different wines : thus— Port Sherry Madeira Marsala Claret Burgimdy Ehine wine Moselle Champagne Brandy Bum Geneva Whisky Cider Bitter Ale Porter Stout varied from 20-7 per cent, to 23‘2 per cent, by measure. 16-4, 19-0 190 9'1 101 9-5 8-7 14T 60-4 72-0 49-4 69-3 6-4 6-6 6-5 6-6 24-7 19-7 21T 111 13- 2 130 9-4 14- 8 63-8 77T 7-5 12-3 70 7-9 The Burgundy and Claret have less alcohol than was found by Mr. Brande forty years ago, in the wines he examined. The sherry is now stronger; the port is not so strong; the Marsala is weaker; the Ehine wine is the same strength; the brandy is as strong as formerly; the rum is nearly half as strong again; the porter is stronger, and the stout rather stronger than formerly. 'Young wine is red and bright at first, owing to the presence of phosphoric and other acids. As these acids become subdued, the colour is subdued as well, until aU that raw brightness, in- dicative of immaturity, is mellowed and ripened into the rich, tawny hue—that mixture of glowing red and mellow brown, with the golden light striking through, which every one takes as his surest guide in his choice of port and red wines. Alas for his innocence ! Even this may be counterfeited, and the tell- tale colour of immature wines be artificially concealed and meta-Bouquet and Crust of Wine. Ill morphosed into the tawniest hue that ever graced the table of an epicure. The eiTor of preferring wines of great age has at length been discovered, and the excellence of the vintage has proved to be of more consequence than the number of years. Provided the vintage has been a good one, no port-wine drinker wishes his to have exceeded its eighth year; so that the lately esteemed epithet “ old ” has lost its charm here. Old hock has also given way to jmung hock, that is of a fine season. The same may be said of claret; and well, indeed, for unless clarets be the growth of some peculiarly good season, they will not keep till old.— Nimrod. The houquet of wine depends upon the proportion which they contain of ananihic ether, which has a sharp disagreeable taste, and has so powerful an odour of wine as to be almost intoxicating. It does not exist in the juice of the grape, but is produced during the fermentation, and increases in quantity by keeping, as the odour of old wines is stronger than that of new wines. So powerful is the odour of this substance, however, that few wines contain more than one forty-thousandth part of their bulk of it. Yet it is always present, can always be recognised by its smell, and is one of the general characteristics of all grape wines. The crust of wine is thus explained : Tartaric acid exists in the juice of the grape in combination with potents, forming bi- tartrate of potasb, or cream of tartar. When the fermented juice is left at rest, this bi-tartrate gradually separates from the liquor, and deposits itself as a crust, or tartar, on the sides of the casks and bottles. Hence, by long keeping, good wines be- come less acid, and every year added to their age increases in proportion their marketable value. In regard to acidity, our common wines ai’range themselves in the following order. Sherry is the least acid; port comes next; then champagne, claret, Madeira, Burgundy, and Khine wines; Moselle is most acid. A damp cellar aids the maturation of wine. Mrs. Bray relates, that in a wet cellar, on the banks of the Cowsick, in Devonshii’e, was wine “which aU who tasted declared to be the finest- flavoured they had ever drunk in England, and this flavour (what- ever wine-merchants may think of the fact), was considered to be the efiect of the atmosphere, the bottles being always covered with moisture, which those who pai-took of the contt its called Dart- moor dew.” A factitious mode of bringing forward bottled port wine, is to throw over it occasionally cold water; but, after the wine has become ripe, it must be di'unk speedily, else it wiU soon become unfit for the table.Hints for the Table. 112 If ne^vly-bottled wine be exposed to the sun, it will begin shortly to deposit, and improve in flavour; and even the rawest wine of this kind, by placing the bottle in water, and boiling it, may be made, in the course of a day, to assume the quality which it would have had after many years keeping. In the United States, Madeira is commonly boiled, and the same treatment is applied to port. In Spain, brown sherry undergoes the same process. Bitter almonds, it was thought by the Eomans, checked intoxi- cation ; and there is somewhere an anecdote about the physician of the Emperor Tiberius, who, if he had eaten his usual quantity of this fruit, would drink three bottles of strong wine, but otherwise easily succumbed. The practice of eating cheese to bring out the flavour of wine was a Koman custom; and there is evidence of plates of cheese being provided for the tasters at sales of wine in old Rome, just as is done in England at the present day. The pipe of wine measure varies according to the description of wine. The pipe of port contains 130 gallons, of sherry 130, of Lisbon and Bucellas 140, of Madeira 110, and of Vidonia 120. The pipe of port, it should be observed, is seldom accurately 130 gallons, and it is not unusual to charge what the vessel actuall}- contains. As the first-rate growths of wines are confined to a small num- ber of vineyards, and these often of very limited extent, the supply of such wines can never equal the demand. Every one who can afi'oi'd the luxury, is naturally desirous to stock his cellar with those of the choicest quality; he orders no others; and the manufacturer and wine-dealer are thus induced to send into the market a quantity of second-rate and ordinary kinds, under the names of the fine wines, which they are unable to I'uruish. In this way, great confusion and misunderstanding have arisen in those counti'ies where they are but little known, with respect to the true characters of many wines of the greatest name.—Dr. Henderson s History of TFines. Wines should vary with the seasons: light wines are be.st in summer; in winter, generous wines are preferred. White wine is drunk with white meats, and red with brown meats. Light wines are suitable to light dishes, and stronger wines to more substantial dishes. In summer, wine and water, cooled b}' a piece of ice being put into it, is a luxury. Light dry wines, such as hock, claret, Burgund}% Rhenish, and Hermitage, are, generally speaking, more salubrious than the stronger varieties, as port, sherry, or Madeira. Claret, in par- ticular, is the most wholesome wine known: champagne, exceptChampagnes. 113 in cases of weak digestion, is one of the safest wines that can be drunk. Its intoxicating effects are rapid, but exceedingly tran- sient, and depend partly upon the carbonic acid, which is evolved from it, and partly upon the alcohol, which is suspended in this gas, being applied rapidly and extensively to a large surftice of the stomach.—M.acnisli. CHAMPAGNES. Champagne was pronounced by a verdict of the faculty of Paris, in 1778, to be the finest of all wines. The first quality may be kept from ten to twenty years in a temperature of 54 degrees Fahrenheit, which is uniformly that maintained in the vaults of M. Moet, at Epernay. In travelling through the great plain of Champagne, the tra- veller sees nothing that serves to connect that province with the wines of which he has heard so much. Plains, unless in hot countries, produce only indifferent wine. Coloured champagne, which is commonly thought superior, is made after the white, which is, therefore, the most pure. The tbrraer kinds are manufactm-ed chiefly for the British market. The idea that Champagne is apt to occasion gout, seems to be contradicted by the infrequency of that disorder in the province where it is made; but, it is generally admitted to be prejudicial to those habits in which that disorder is already formed, espe- cially if it has originated from addiction to strong liquors.— Henderson. The prevalent notion that a glass of champagne cannot be too quickly swallowed, is erroneous; and it is no bad test of the quality ot champagne to have it exposed, for some hours, in a wine-glass, when, if originally of the highest order, it will be found to have lost its carbonic acid, hut entirely to retain its body and flavour, which had before been concealed by its effervescence. Champagne should, therefore, not be drunk till this active effer- vescence is over, by those who would relish the above character- istic quality.—Brande. Still champagne is often mistaken by its qualities: it is a strong cheating wine, though commonly thought to be weak and cooling, and it is very deceitful in these respects to the palate. AVhen of superior quality, it has the singular aromatic flavour of champagne in an eminent degree; a flavour which also exists, but is concealed by carbonic acid, in the sparkling wine. Champagne, said Curran, makes a runaway rap at a man’s head. It should never be stinted, for nothing contributes more to the success of a dinner. One great advantage is, that the ladies are commonly tempted to take an extra glass or two. Champagne is seldom drunk pure in England; the Eussians 1Hints for the Table. 114 prefer it in its native state; but for the British market, to every Ibrty gallons of wine from five to ten gallons of brandy is added. The sweetening is artificial—white sugar Irom the Isle of Bourbon, costing, in casks, ninepence per pound. Mr. Musgrave describes unsweetened champagne as “ like Sauterne mixed with worm- wood.” The finest quality on the spot is sold at four shillings a bottle, the commonest, or pink champagne, at two shillings and ninepence. It is calculated that a dozen of the finest Bheims growth could not be delivered in London at a price less than sixty- eight shillings the dozen. Champagne is not fit to be thus delivered up before the May of the second year; so that a bottle of frothy wine cannot be drunk till from eighteen to twenty months. Better the thirtieth month after it has quitted the parent vine. This, with the trouble, the loss, and the cellar-rent, make it impossible that genuine, properly-prepared champagne should be otherwise than costly. Champagne, therefore, is the wine of the wealthy. Wine-mer- chants on the spot cannot let you have passable Sillery for less than two francs and a-half per bottle. At Epemay dwelt M. Moet and Madame Clicquot, sovereigns of Champagne. M. Moet* had two palaces, on opposite sides of the same street, and in one of these he lodged Napoleon on the eve of the battle of Montmirail. In the other he dwelt himself. Not far ofi" stands the rival castle of Madame Clicquot.'f She possessed, it is said, foiu’fold the wealth of M. Moet, and her four daughters are all married to opulent men. M. Moet employed two hundred workpeople, kept a stock of three million bottles of wine, besides seven vast tuns, and stored with his champagne a labyrinth of well-ventilated vaults, some of which are fifty feet below the surface of the ground. Every pint and a half of Champagne wine undergoes, before it finds its way to the table, not less than a hundred and fifty several processes of manipulation. St. Peray is a pleasant wholesome efl’ervescing wine; and is remarkable for its natimal unbrandied strength, CLAEETS. St. Estiphe, St. Julien, Bouillac, and La Eose, are light, agreeable, aromatic wines, gently exhilarating. Chateau-Margaux has the perfume of the violet, and a rich ruby colour. Haut Brion has a powerful bouquet resembling a mixtxu’e of violets * M. Moet, whose name is so well-known to all drinkers of champagne, more or less genuine, died a few days since, aged 80.—Times, Sept. 6,18*11. f From the fondness of the King of Prussia for this lady’s Champagne, Ills majesty received the sobriquet of King Clicquot.Claret.—Biwguncly. 115 and raspberries. Latour and Lafitte, the former the stronger wine, are of dark violet colour, and possess a fine violet perfume and taste. Claret is chiefly shipped at Bordeaux, and is the produce of the neighbouring country. The fii’st growths, those of Chateau- Margaux, Lafitte, Latour, and Haut Brion, are from the dis- trict of Medoc, on the left bank of the river Garonne, below the city. None of the very best quality of the red wines of the Borde- lais (country round Bordeaux), known in England as claret, is- exported pure: a bottle of the best Chateau-Margaux, or Haut Brion, being a rarity hardly to be procured in Bordeaux itself, at the rate of six or seven francs. For export, the secondary growths at Medoc are mingled with the rough Palus. The Bordelais are the safest wines for daily use, as they are among the most perfect of the light wines, and do not easily excite intoxication. They have been accused of producing th& gout, but without reason. Persons who drench themselves with madeii'a, port, &c., and indulge in occasional debauches of claret,, may, indeed, be visited in that way; because a transition from the strong, branched wines to the lighter is always followed by a derangement of the digestive organs. Claret was formerly drunk in great quantities in Edinburgh; and was cheap, from its being admitted into the port of Leith on Spanish instead of French duties, as at present. The unmixed, unadulterated Bordeaux wines, not many re- moves from that known throughout France as vin ordinaire,, vin du pays, or the common wine of the country, ai*e gradually becoming favourites in England. The palate of an Englishman, however, is not immediately reconciled to this simple beverage; but, if a man wishes to get up in the morning with a clean tongue and a clear head, to avoid disease, and yet to enjoy liis glass, let him drink the pure Bordeaux wine of la belle France. If brought to table cool, in the summer, it is a most refreshing beverage, and strong enough for any one who wishes to retain his reason. The price in France does not exceed two francs the. bottle.—Nimrod, in Fraser’s Magazine. BUBGUNDY Is stronger than the ordinary clarets, possesses a powerful aroma,, and a delicious and lasting flavour; but, as it arrives in England, it is usually brandied, which is most injurious to its flavour and smell. So delicate is Burgundy, that it is said that if two wines of superior qualities are mixed together, the bouquet and taste are entirely changed. The year 1858 proved for Burgundy one of the finest of the I 2Hints for the Talle. 116 present century. It was as abundant as 18.31: superior to that year in fulness and flavour, and can only find its equal in 1811, Icnown by the name of the. “ Comet-year.” We had thus a second comet-year, quite as abundant. Observations made with the greatest care proved that the grape arrived at complete ma- turity, and exempt from any kind of malady, fermented with the most satisfactory rapidity; that the gleuconometer (the instru- ment which gives the strength of the juice when fir.st pressed) marked 13^, while in ordinary years it does not exceed 11 or 12; that the colour was beautiful, and the bouquet already deve- loped. The first growths have a rare degree of delicacy and homogeneity, and the good ordinary wines, and even the most common, deserve to be classified this year in a higher rank tlian is ordinarily assigned to them. The C6te-d’Or will again acquire all the prestige attached to its name, and, with the wines of 1858, must satisfy the most difficult tastes, and defy all com- petition. Mr. Musgrave, in his observations made in Burgundy, or the Cote-d’Or, says: “ When a regiment on march gains first sight of the Clos Vougeot, the officer in command gives orders to present arms,” to acknowledge the supremacy of the grape. “ The Chambertin estate comprises less than twenty acres—Golden Fields or Golden Slopes, as the people style them. Near it lies the Clos Napoleon. The pressoir, the cinishing machinery three hundred years old, is a ponderous structure that exhibits no indications of decay; its component parts have been but slightly altered since the main post—the entire stem of a fine oak—supporting the screw apparatus, was sunk twenty feet deep into the ground, before Louis XIV. was bora 1 But the richest wine does not flow from this machine; it is the fruit of the first crush, the bursting of the grapes under their own pressure when heaped in a vat, and left tor hours to distil into the trough be- neath. Little of this splendid wine reaches England; it is fre- quently stolen on the way, almost always adulterated. The Koussillon rvines require age: and, if originally of fine quality, they are not in perfection unless they have been ten or twelve years in bottle. Sauterne has not quite so much strength as Barsac; but it is very fine and mellow. Barsac is distinguished by its strength and flavour in good years, and is generally lively and sparkling, and very mellow. Bai’sac and oysters are a first-rate luncheon. Both these wines keep well: some Sauterne that dates from the middle of the last century, is said to be in existence. Vin-de-Bar, which grows at Bar-le-Duc, is a wine not much known in England, but is in considerable estimation in France.117 German Wines. It is rose-coloured, pleasant in flavour, and sells in its native country at about 8 sous per bottle. The favourite white wine called Chablis is grown at the small village of Chablis, about 100 miles to the south-east of Paris. ChaMis and oysters are a delicious and fashionable luncheon in the French metropolis. GERMAN WINES. The light Ehenisli and French dinner wines now in fashion are, according to Dr. Mayo, greatly inferior to good table-beer, and are much less wholesome; they are commonly drunk because they ai'e wine, by those with whom strong wines disagree. Dr. Henderson, however, recommends Rhenish wines for their diuretic effect, and for diminishing obesity. Among the Rhine wines (improperly called hock in England), the Johannisberg and Steinberg rank first, and are on an equal looting for their exquisite flavour and evanescent bouquet. Hext follow Rudesheim (Berg), Markobrunner, and Rothenberg, which possess much body and aroma. Hockheim (which grows on the banks of the Maine, not in the Rheingau,) ranks with the best of these second-class wines. Of the inferior wines, those of Erbach and Halleuheim are the best. The lighter wines are, however, apt to be hard and rather acid, as table wines. The Laubenheim and Nierstein, from the Palatinate above Mayence, and the delicately-flavoured Moselles, are much preferred to them as table wines in Germany. The best red wine in Germany is the Asmanshausen. The vine chiefly cultivated on the Rhine is called Riesling; it yields a wine of fine flavour: the Orleans grape produces a strong-bodied wine. The finest wine, the Johannisberg, grows close under the castle of that name, and partly over the cellars, the property of Prince Metternich. The grapes are allowed to remain on the vines as long as they will hold together, by which the wine gains strength in body. So precious are they, that those which fall are picked off the ground with a kind of fork made for the purpose. The wine is made in such small quantity, that it is for the most part disposed of privately, and can rarely be obtained for either love or money. Steinberger is made from a vineyard of only 108 acres, so that the supply is extremely limited. Hockheimer, or Hock, is made from a few vines which grow round the town of Hockheim, on the Mayne. Rudesheimer is also made in very small quantity, and soon all bought up on the spot. Scharr- berger and Grunhauser are called the “ Nectar of the Moselle.” The Steinberg wine, the property of the Duke of Nassau, is managed even with greater care and cost than the Johannisberg.Hints for the Table. 118 1 r In 1836, half of the finest wines in the duke’s cellars were sold hy public auction. The finest cask, the flower, or, as the Germans ; call it, the Braut (Bride) of the cellar, was purchased for the enormous sum of 6100 florins (about 600Z.), by Prince Emile of Hesse. It contained 3^ ohms, about 600 bottles of cabinet 1 Steinberg, at about 24>s. a bottle; this being, probably, the highest ,price ever paid for any wine of the district. One of the finest German wines is one called straw wine, which is the produce of grapes so ripe as to require no pressure; but the juice distils itsell’ through clean wheaten straw, from which it j imbibes its colour. It is a very expensive wine—sixteen shillings per bottle, I The famous Heidelberg Tun stands in a cellar under the castle ! • of that name: it is the largest wine cask in the world, being capable of holding 800 hogsheads (283,000 bottles), which are , less, after all, than the dimensions of the porter vats of a London / brewer. In former days, when the tun was filled, it was usual I to dance on the platform on the top: it has, however, remained ■empty since 1769, nearly 90 years. The Konigstein Tun was !' broken up some time since, having fallen to decay, TEEMUTH,—TOKAY, ETC, I Vermuth, the wermutJi must, or wormwood, is a wine of con- siderable antiquity, Wallenstein is recorded to have ordered provision to be made of vermuth from his estates, of the vintage of 1630, being one of great promise. This luxurious appendage to the table is stiU usual in Austrian Germany, and jl rare elsewhere, “ Imperial Tokay” appears to be nothing more than a costly and sweet luscious wine, which has been extravagantly overrah^d. Dr. Townson, in his Travels in H.ungary, says, “ Tokay is, no ; doubt, a fine wine, but I think no ways adeqxxate to its price; ij there are few of my countrymen, except on account of its scarce- ness, who would not prefer to it good claret or Burgundy, which does not cost one-fourth of the price. Some of the sweetish Spanish wines are, in my opinion, equally good; and, unless it i be very old, it is too sweet for an Englishman’s palate.” When the Emperor of Austria wished to make a present of some Tokay [!■ wine in return for a breed of horses which had been sent to him by the ex-king of Holland, the stock in the imperial royal cellars i was not deemed sufficiently old for the purpose, and 2000 bottles jj of old Tokay were, therefore, procured from Cracau, at the ex- ■1 travagant price of 7 ducats, or 3Z. 5s. 4i7. the bottle; or, for the ( whole present, 6533Z. 6s. 8tZ.! Vin de Chypre is a costly item in the cartes of some of theTort Wines. 119 leading restaurants at Paris, where it is sold at the rate of 2 or 3 francs a glass. This, however, is only an imitation of Cyprus wine, and the mode of preparing it is thus given in the Biblio- t/ieque Pki/sico-JEconomique. To 10 quarts of syrup of elder- berries, add 80 pints of water, 2 oz. ginger, 2 oz. cloves, and boil together; add a few bruised grapes, and strain. Constantia is universally esteemed for its high flavour and luscious quality. The only vineyard at the Cape which yields it is of small dimensions, and the produce, both white and red, does not exceed from 8000 to 12,000 gallons annually. PORT. Good port wine, duly kept, is, when taken in moderation, one of the most wholesome of vinous liquors: it strengthens the muscular system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the circulation, exhilarates the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies: in excess, it is, perhaps, the most mischievous of wines, and most likely to produce those permanent derangements of the digestive organs which follow the habitual use of distilled spirits.—Brande. There is one criterion of fine and old port, which the writer never knew fail, although it may by an accident. The cork, when it has dried, that is to say, an hour after it has been drawn, should be covered on its under surface, and part of its cylindrical surface with crystals of tartar.—Mayo’s Philosophy of Living. A vast quantity of spurious port wine is imported into this country from the Channel Islands. Thus, during eight years, there were but 210 pipes of wine exported from Oporto to the Channel Islands, whilst the wines imported into London from the Channel Islands were 2072 pipes. It, therefore, ap- pears clear that cheap French wines are greatly substituted for port wine. So late as Queen Anne’s reign, our importation of port wine was very small: it was then customary in London, upon the meeting of two friends, for the one to invite the other to a tavern to drink; or, in a vulgar phrase, “ to crack a bottle of claret dashed with portthus intimating the comparative rarity of the latter wine. Sir John Sinclair relates, in his Code of Health, that a Mr. Vanhorn, in the space of twenty-three years, drank 36,688 bottles, or 59 pipes of port wine. His usual daily quota was four bottles! In the course of his life he resembled more a cellar than a man: although there are many cellars that never con- tained what this man’s stomach, first and last, must have done— namely, 59 pipes of port wine. Port wine, when tawny, loses its astringency, acquires a120 Tlints for the Table. slightly acid taste, and is unwholesome, having an increased tendency to produce gout. Lord Palmerston, (who, when in office, has been accustomed to employ his pleasantries &sparaton7ieJ'res for troublesome visitors,) one day related the following anecdote to a deputation of gentle- men who waited upon him to urge the reduction of the wine duties. Eeferring to the question of adulterations, “ I remember,” said his lordship, “ my grandfather. Lord Pembroke, when he placed wine before his guests, said: ‘ There, gentlemen, is my cham- pagne, my claret, &c. I am no great judge, and I give you this on the authority of my wine-merchant; but I can answer for my port, for I made it myself.’ I still have his receipt, which I look on as a curiosity;'but I confess I have never ventured to tr}' it.” In 1858, there was an interesting sale of port wine at Prospect Hill, near Reading. The cliief attraction was the old vintage port of all the most celebrated years up to 1820, and including that year, of such wondrous renown among connoisseurs. A bin of the vintage of 1816, bottled in 1818, in ad- mirable preservation, although a little past its best, sold at eight and nino guineas per dozen. The nest bin, of the vintage of 1812, bottled in 1815, full of colour, in perfect preservation, fairly without a fault, showing both firmness, delicacy, and high bouquet, was sold at 11 guineas and 12). per dozen. A small bin of the vintage of 1804, which fully supported its long-established renown, stUl possessing fine colour and high bouquet; delicate, dry, but full of flavour, without symptom of decay, put beyond all doubt or difi'erence of opinion whether choice Portugal red ivine will endure a very long keeping better than any other red wine, and was sold at 11 to 12 guineas the dozen. Following this came three bins of the vintage of 1820; each was a rare example—different in style, but all of unexception- able quality; it is indeed remarkable that among port wines of these ancient dates so few decayed or even impaired wines are found, and this seems to attest their general purity. Of these three Kopke’s Boriz took the lead, containing all the vigour of youth, shoiving substance, fruit, the highest quality, and remarkable character. For many tastes, however, the other two are equally fine—one for its deep colour and dryness, wrtli great character; the other for its firmness and concentration of flavour, ivithout hardness or heat. The prices of these ranged from 11 guineas to 14/. 10s. per dozen, and became in most instances the property of the wine trade. It is a fallac}' to suppose that such a thing exists as what is termed “pure port wine,”—that is, without an admixture of brandy. On the first arrival of each pipe of wine at Villa Nova, a certain quantity of this spirit is immediately added; for with- out it the wine would not keep.—Mr. Paget, in the Times, Nov. 24, 1858. The failure in the crop of Portuguese wines in 1857 was very calamitous, and, of course, prices rose accordingly. The produce in the Alto Douro district, ordinarily 100,000 pipes a-year, fell off to 15,000. The price of a pipe of port wine from the farmer121 Sherries. in 1858, was about 30/.; before the failure it was less than one- moiety of that sum. The same occurred with all the wines of the- country. The common wines were formerly drunk by the .peasant at abont one halfpenny the pint; the same quantity now averages^ about twopence. The failure in the crop of oranges and lemons was likewise most disastrous in its consequences. Competent judges are agreed that about the finest port wine- ever known was found at Wotton, in 1824, in some cellars that had been bricked up not later, and perhaps much earlier, than the- time of George Grenville, the minister, who died in 1770. The- Compte de Cosse, maitre-d’hotel to Louis XVIII., possessed some port which was more than a hundred years old; but it had lost its colour, and its flavour was by no means fine.—The Art of Dining. The White Wines of Portugal have lost the only chance they ever had of a start in the race of competition with sheriy. The excellence of the wines of Lisbon, Bucellas, and Carcavellos is- not to be disputed, when due justice is done them, and they are obtained from fii’st-rate houses. In the 15th and 16th centuries, when port was unknown in the rest of Europe, and very little known in Portugal, her white wines were prized to the extent of an exportation which, for that period, was enormous. Many of the most distinguished gourmets in England far prefer dry Lisbon to all other wines, and will drink nothing else; and ac- complished judges prefer it to Madeira, which it resembles in quality with less luscious richness, according it a vast superiority over the ordinary class of sherries. SHEEEIES. Sherry of a due age, and in good condition, is a fine, perfect,, and wholesome wine; free from excess of acid, and possessing a diy aromatic flavour and fragrancy; but, as procured in the ordinary market, it is of fluctuating and anomalous quality, often destitute of all aroma, and tasting of little else than alcohol and water.—Brande. It has often been said, that sherry is a compound wine; but this is a mistake. The best pale and light golden sherries are made from the pure Xeres grape, with only t^he addition of two- ■ bottles of brandy to a butt, which is no more than l-215th part. “ Neither ai'e the deep golden and brown sherries, of the best quality, compound wines, though they may be called mixed wines; for they are coloured b}'' boiling the wine of Xeres. Pale sherries are, however, the purest; though, all the gradations of colour upon which so much stress is laid, have nothing to do> with the quality of the wine, but depend entii’ely upon the greater or smaller quantity of boiled wine used for colom-ing it.—Hints fur the Table. 122 {Inglis's Spain.) In short, it is entirely by the aroma and by the taste, not at all by the colour, that sherries are to be judgecl. The wide differences in colour depend entirely upon the pro- portion of boiled wine; while those slighter shades, perceptible among the pale and light golden wines, are owing to some small difference in the ripeness of the fruit; or, to factitious decolor- ization by our wine-merchants. The finest and driest sherry is called Amontillado. It is very rare: out of forty butts collected from the same vineyard, not above two or three having this quality. Sherry is only taken as a vin de liqtceur in France, and not with dinner as in England. MADEIRA. Madeira, as a stimulant, equals port, and, when in fine con- dition, may truly be called a generous wine: unfortunately, it is rarely to be procured; and as it is generally more acid than either port or sherry, it is, consequently, not so well adapted to stomachs inclined to dyspeptic acidity. Wine-drinkers in England are very commonly deceived into the idea that a voyage to the East or West Indies is sufficient to •ensure the excellence of Madeira wine: but this is an obvious fallacy, for if the wine were not of a good quality when shipped from the island, a thousand voyages could not make it what it never had been. It is well known to every merchant in Madeira, that a great proportion of the wines so shipped are of an inferior quality, and are purchased in barter by persons who are com- monly known by the name of truckers.—Holman’s Voyage. So destructive has been the vine disease in Madeira, of late jears, that the production of its beautiful wine can no further be hoped for. The bidding for the famous pipe of Madeira, at the sale of the effects of the late Duchess de Eaguse, in 1868, caused a great commotion in Paris. This famous wine, known to all as the “ 1814 pipe,” was fished up near ■ Antwerp in 1814, where it had lain in the carcass of a ship ■nTecked at the ■ mouth of the Scheld in 1778, and which had lain there ever since, ,4s soon as the valuable discovery was made knovn, Louis XVIII. despatched . an agent to secure the precious relic. A share of the glorious beverage • was presented to the French Consul, who had assisted at its discovery, and • thus it came into the cellars of the Duke de Eaguse. Only four and forty bottles were remaining, and these were literally sold for their weight in gold to Eothschild, who was opposed by Vdron and Milland. Veron was ■ angry, because he declared that he had made the reputation of the wine,. by mentioning it in his Memoirs, on the occasion of the dinner given to Taglioni by the Duchess de Eaguse, whereat the famous “ 1814” was • produced as the greatest honour to be paid to the great artist.—Court ‘ Journal. When the celebrated Malmsey, made in Crete, is stored in theWives; Catawba and Isabella. 123 cellars, the following benediction is pronounced oyer the precious tipple: “ Lord God, thou who lovest mankind, direct thine eyes to this wine, and those who shall drink it: bless our vessels, thrice blessed, as the wells of Jacob, and the pool of Siloam, and as thou hast blessed this drink of the Apostles. O Lord, thou who wast present at the wedding at Cana, and by changing the water into wine, revealed thy glory to thy disciples, send thy Holy Spirit on this wine, and bless it in thy name.” Great mistakes are made in judging of wine merely hy Us age. It is the year or vintage—not the mere lapse of time which stamps the value. Thus, hock of 1811, (the comet year,) is more valuable than hock of 1801, and claret of 1834, than claret of 1824. AMEEICAN WINES. ' Catawba is a delicious American white wine, grown in Ohio and Virginia, and Missouri: it is both still and sparkling, and was one of the native wines which obtained a prize at the Crystal Palace Exhibition in New York. In the latter State is grown the Isabella, another favourite wine. Catawba is, however, the principal wine, and is a great favourite in Kentucky and Ten- nessee. In comparing these wines with those of Europe, we must bear in mind that they are distinct in flavour from any or all of them. It is their peculiarity that no spmlous compound can be made to imitate them, and in purity and delicacy there is no known wine to equal them. The most expensive wine in Europe, Tokay, is also the lowest in alcoholic per centage, 9'85. Now, still Catawba shows a per centage of 9‘50 only, being, in fact, the lowest per centage of spii-it to be found in any wine in the world. In the United States, the native wines are fast supplanting the foreign, espe- cially the sparkling kinds; and at the hotels the majority of the wines are home. Catawba and Isabella are also largely grown in California; thei’e, and in Texas, grapes of superior colour and flavour are gi-own “ as large as plums.” In Texas, the El Paso and Mus- tang ai-e very fine wines; the latter has been pronounced the port wine grape, of superior quality and yield. BEITISH WINES. Of the juice of the giant rhubarb leaf-stalks may he made a delicious wine, equal to green gooseberry, and very closely re- sembling champagne. The manufacturers of British wine for sale employ the fii’sl wort from malt, to supply the deficiency of sugar in our native fruits; they find this substitute economical, especially when beer124 Uints for the Talle. is made from the good remaining in the malt, after enough wort has been extracted for making the wine. British wines are not so weak as they are commonly thought to be. Baisin and other wines made in this country are often much stronger than the highest average of port, in consequence of the saccharine matter, or of added sugar, which is suffered to ferment into alcohol. Besides, British wines commonly contain a large quantity of unfermented sugar, or they have hecomepricked in consequence of the production of a little vinegar, and hence are extremely apt to disorder the stomach. A very superior raisin wine, with the Frontignac flavour, was made by Mr. A. Aikin; the recipe for which will be found in the Transactions of the Society of Arts for 1829; or, in The Family Manual. Champagne made from gooseberries has often been mistaken by reputed good judges for champagne from grapes. Exempli gratia; Lord Haddington, a first-rate judge of wines, had a bottle of mock and a bottle of real champagne set before him, and being requested to distinguish them, he mistook the product of the gooseberry for the genuine article. Superior wine is made from the pure juice of grapes, with from 11b. to 21b. of sugar, and loz. of crude tartar to each gallon. A superior elder wine may be made, by using, instead of raw sugar, 41b. of loaf-sugar to each gallon of mixed juice and water. Parsnep wine has been made to approach nearer to the Malm- sey of the Madeira and the Canaries than any other wine. WINE, AND DECANTING. On a question of “ good living,” Wine may, perhaps, be ex- pected to hold the place of honour. But, whilst conceding this, we are minded to note a distinction. It has, we think, been too much the custom to treat of Wine specially, if not exclusively, as to “ conviviality”—the word being generally used in a sophisti- cated and somewhat uncandid sense. We wish to be more philo- sophical and indeed more just; to view Wine as a delightful social friend; as also a very interesting natural product. Its beneficent influences in daily life (not overlooking considerations medical) claim our gratitude. It is beautiful to the eye, agree- able to the palate, of exquisite fragrance, cheering to the spirits, invigorating to the mental and physical powers. But when further we consider it in reference to its capability of preserva- tion—say, the expressed juice of the grape without any factitious addition, lirought by a process of fermentation skilfully adminis-The Mutriator. 125 tered—as for example in the wine of Bordeaux—to bo preservable in its own simple purity for half a century, we must aver that Wine is also a very wonderful result of art. Guidance in choice of wine by means of written instruction, would, we fear, be tedious and unprofitable. Experience teaches in this, as in all matters mundane. Nor is it given to every man to be a “ good judge ” of wine. Therefore, as the stomach de- serves to be considered equally with the palate, and as in choos- ing wine there is great liability to error, it is often advisable to defer to tbe judgment of those who are qualified to select. Yet we may perhaps, with advantage, make one or two general obser- vations on this point. It is not matter of course that all wine of high price is good, nor the contrary. Inexpensive wine may be good; costly wine may be bad. Again, wine that is agree- able to the palate may be noxious to the stomach, though it rarely happens that wine unpleasant to taste is salutary. The art of choosing wine is, then, to distinguish that which, though uncostly, is good ; which whilst palatable is wholesome; wliich, though high-priced, is also good, and worth the money. The word “ good,” as applied to wine, has meanings multiform, and somewhat involved. Eor, though when we say impressively that wine is “ good,” we mean good to drink, including whole- someness with other desirable qualities—yet we may say, in some instances with perfect correctness, that wine is “ good, but not fit to drink.” 'I'he latter phrase describes much wine that is met •with—a state attributable to want of skill in the making and management of the wine. Thus, neither high price, nor low price, nor pleasantness to the taste, can unerringly' direct us in the choice of good wine. Frequently (especially two or three years after a favourable vintage) wine of small price is “good but this requires the practised palate to determine. The deside- ratum then in the choice of wine is, at whatever price, to have it good. Moreovei’, in discoursing of wine, we have to speak of “ con- dition.” It is not always easy (as we have shown) to get good wine, but the difficulty increases when likewise we require good wine in perfect condition. And yet how should we be satisfied with less ? The better the wine, the greater the loss if it be spoiled or deterio- rated ; but whatever the degree in quality, there is a state of it (we mean after it has been sold for consumption) in which it will not be fit for drinking. “ Condition,” then, has to be referred to under two heads: 1st, Chemical, that of health as to fermenta- tion ; 2nd, Mechanical, that of brightness, by the absence of any feculent matter in suspension. The first is very much the affair of the Wine-merchant, since it should bo his study to correct such disorder in wine, whether accidental or constitutional. ThisHints for the Table. 126 will, also, often occur temporarily from change of season or temperature, and be self-curative. Indeed, all but very old wine will be liable to occasional derangement of “ condition” from natural causes, and it is after these perturbations that the “ deposit” occurs which we have to speak of under our second < heading on “ condition,”—namely that Mechanical. Having reference then to wine in bottle, the state of turbidness referable < to the re-admixture of a “ deposit” by agitation of the liquid, | though consistent with perfect healthiness in the wine, is not i “ condition.” Displeasing to sight, wine in this state is impaired ! in flavour and bouquet, also less salutary. For, albeit there are ( degrees of this ill “ condition,” some “ deposit” being more per- j nicious_ than other, it is always bad. What in fact is this j “ deposit” but something eliminated from the wine during the process of its matui'ation ? As might be supposed, the results of that process—“ deposit”—are, when tasted separately, found to be most unpalatable. Yet, unnatural as is the reunion of the “ deposit” with the wine, this disadvantage is often, we may almost say generally, incurred (more or less) by reason of the difficulty of avoiding it. At rest in its Bin, the wine will he bright; but who shall remove it, extract the cork, and separate perfectly the bright and pure portion from the foul and bitter “ deposit?” No sooner is the bottle transferred from the posi- tion in which it has lain than disturbance of the “ deposit” is apt to begin; if placed upright for drawing the cork, there is pre- sently a partiM subsidence of the rejected impurities; then fol- lows the jolt attendant on extraction of the cork; then the agita- tion inseparable from pouring off,—and so is lost the “ condition” perchance attained to by many years’ keeping! Some attempts have from time to time been made to palliate, by mechanical aid, this inconvenience; but these contrivances have been so imper- fect as only to increase trouble without effecting their object. We have, however, lately met with an Instrument which effectu- ally meets the difficulties of the case, and deserves thereby to be esteemed an especial boon to that large section of mankind—the admirers of wine. Henceforward it is our own fault if we do not drink our wine (such as we can get) in “ condition.” We refer to a little machine, entitled “ Ellis’s Patent Elutriator,”*—to be used for the elutriation or decanting of wine. [See Frontispiece.) This is, in one, a basket wherein the bottle of wine is steadily deported from its bin; a fixing whereby, still without change of position, the bottle is held firm whilst the cork is removed; and a filter for pouring off the wine. In aid of the latter part of the operation of decanting, the Elutriator is furnished with an iuge- * Made at Farrow’s, Great Tower-street, London.127 Icing Wines. nious though simple mechanism, in a cam or eccentric acting on a sextant. By this means the bottle is sustained as it is raised,— the action of the cam following the motion of the hand—and thus the person decanting is enabled to rest at will during the opera- tion. Not only is this Machine sufficient at all points, but it has the great merit of demanding no more time or skill than the primitive, clumsy, and destructive method ordinarily practised. Not a movement is exacted in the use of the Elutriator which would not be required without it. We think this Machine will be valuable also where wine (as prevalent in France) is taken at once from the original bottle to the drinking glass. By slightly releasing the cam, to stop the flow when the glass is fiUed, the last drop of bright wine may be taken from the lightest or muddiest “ deposit.” Bachelors who have no decanter at hand will appreciate this. Henceforth, therefore, we may drink wine in “ condition.” ICING WINES, ETC. The choicest wines are ordinarily iced; whereas (with the ex- ception of wine which gains strength by cold), common wines only should be iced; and even they would be better if merely cooled with water, which always gives sufficient coolness to wine, even at the hottest temperature of the dog-days. But, it is not only that we should avoid icing wines that are choice; each different kind requires a different degree of cold and warmth. Thus, claret, when just brought out of the cellar, has not that soft and delicious flavour which gives this wine its peculiar value. Before drinking it, the bottle should be placed where it may imbibe a degree of warmth. In winter, wine-drinkers always place it before the fire; but Burgundy should be drunk fresh from the cellar. Sprinklings of salt ai-e sometimes added to ice when it is put into the house, with the view of preserving it; but this is an erroneous notion, unless it be supposed that, by the abstraction of the latent heat from some of the ice dissolved by the salt, a greater degree of cold is produced to solidify the remainder. Salt is altogether unnecessary; if ice do not keep without, it cannot be preserved with such an application. Confectioners use salt to dissolve not preserve the ice, because a much more in- tense degree of cold is generated during the solution than if the pieces of ice remained uiidissolved.—Main. When ice cannot be obtained, either of the two following powders may be substituted for it, viz., equal parts of mm-iate of ammonia and nitre, powdered and mixed; or, nitrate of ammonia in powder. In employing them to cool a bottle of champagne, place it to the neck in a vessel of the coldest pump-water thatJTiutsfor the Table. 128 ■can be procured; sprinkle about four ounces of either of the r above powders upon the shoulder of the bottle, so as, gradually I |! dissolving, to fall or run down its sides; as the salt dissolves, i: the bottle should be gently turned in the mixture, and kept in it !■ about twenty minutes, or half-an-hour. ■' A decanter of wine or water may be readily cooled by folding I; round it a wet cloth, and placing it in a current of air. ' I Artificial ice, made by the aid of an air-pump and other appa- : ; ratus, has been found too expensive, and is rarely resorted to in \ !( India. Upon its first introduction into Bengal, the novelty j |! proved very attractive; and a rich and luxurious native, it is said, I I expended 700Z. in the single article of ice, at an entertainment ] 'I given to a European party. Sometimes wine is kept cool at table by fancifully arranging wet cloths round the necks of the I bottles, over which is a kind of petticoat. Port, claret, and Burgundy are characteristically attired in crimson, with white ! flounces; while sherry and Madeira appear in bridal costume. It is calculated that, in one da}', 800 tons of ice have been collected from the various sources afforded by the basin of the canal near King’s Cross. The Eev. Mr. Musgrave, in his Filgrim.age into Daupliiny, observes that, when you have the best wine, you should have the best glasses to drink it from. In the broad, tazza-shaped glass the effervescence is speedily dead, as also in the old- fashioned long glass in the form of an inverted funnel. The stem should be hollow, and as it approaches the circular flat upon which it stands should be perfectly globular. As long as this contains any wine, a column of fixed air is seen ascending, and keeping up the sparkling action, not pleasant to the eye alone, but conducive to the flavour and cordial to the taste. To Mull Wine. (An excellent French receipt).—Boil in a wine- glassful and a half of water a quarter of an ounce of spice (cin- ; namon, ginger, slightly bruised, and cloves), with three ounces i of fine sugar, until they forai a thick syrup, which must not on any account be allowed to burn. Pour in a pint of port wine, and stir it gently until it is on the point of boiling only: it should then be served immediate!}'. The addition of a strip or two of orange-rind cut extremely thin, gives to this beverage the I flavour of bishop. In France, light claret takes the place of port ,i wine in making it, and the better kinds of vin du pays are very palatable thus prepai'ed: Watei', IJ wineglassful; spice, quarter ■' of an ounce, of which fine cloves twenty-four, and of remainder ' I rather more ginger than cinnamon ; sugar, three ounces: warm fifteen to twenty minutes. Port wine or claiet, one pint; orange- rind, if used, to be boiled with the spice. Sherry, or very fineThe Loving Cui^. 129 raisin or ginger wine, prepared as above, and stirred hot to the yolks of four fresh eggs, will be found excellent. In the Curiosities of London, we find this illustration of a civic custom, which is honoured to this day :— The Lovinff Cup is a splendid fcatui’e of the Hall-feasts of the City and Inns of Court. The cup is of silver or silver-gilt, and is tilled with spiced wine, iinmemorially termed “sack.” Immediately after the dinner and grace, the Master and Wardens drink to then- visitors a hearty welcome; the cup is then passed round the table, and each guest, after ho has drunk, applies Ids napkin to the mouth of the cup before he passes it to his neiglibour. The more formal practice is for the person who pledges with the loving cup to stand up and bow to his neighbour, who, also standing, removes the cover with his right hand, and holds it wliile the other drinks; a custom said to have originated in the precaution to keep the right, or dagger-hand, employed, that the person who drinks may be assured of no treachery, like that practised by Elfrida on the unsuspecting King Edward the Mar*tj-r at Corfe Castle, who was slain while drinking. This was why the lo\-ing cup possessed a cover.—F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. The Art of Drinking Wine. Eating has its rationale, and in well-conditioned society its rnles of propriety are as closely observed as any other part of the system by which we live and have our being; and but little pains is requisite to prove that drinking should be reduced to the same order. To commence refection with drinking Tokay or Lachryma Christi, would be as great a breach of propriety as to eat game before soup. A French epicurean wine-drinker decrees, that the red wines should always precede the white, except in a French dinner, usually preceded by oysters. In this case, the ostreal delicacies should he saluted with a treble volley of Chablis; or, for greater solemnity, with libations of Ponilly, or Mont-Edchet; or even with Sauteme, Barsac, or White Hermitage. But, for this im- portant reason, red wine should open the repast. Our French exemplars assert the most proper wine dnring the first course to be, without any contradiction, Bm'gundy of the least celebrated growth, and which, for this reason, is known as Low Burgundy. Such are Avallon, Coulange, Tonnere, and generally all those known under the designation of Macon and Auxerre. You then ascend to Baume and Pomard; and if you choose to confine yourself to the Burgundian topography, you have the generous Eichebourg, the high-flavoured St. George, the purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Eoman6e. But, if you can ill bear the trammels of classification, and wish to give a fillip to yom’ taste by change of fiavour and soil, Champagne KHints for the Table. 130 offers its spariding Ai, perfumed Cumieres, and limpid Sillery. After these, you may enjoy the stronger wines of Jjauphiny, which whet the appetite, and lieigliten the savour of the roasts. Among these we recommend Chateau-Grilld, Cote-Eotie, and Hermitage. ’Tis then that mirth lights up the faces of the con- vivial circle, and the gibes and gambols of wit are wont “ to set the table in a roar’tis then that we acknowledge the claim of only one other wine to pi'oduce on the quantity already imbibed, an effect similar to that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or a spoonful of oil on the angry waves of the ocean. This is the wine of Bordeaux, or claret. See how wisdom’s art gradually appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect of Medoc poured by a steady hand into bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax- lights. An armistice ensues, and the “ intellectual gladiators ” lay down their wordy weapons. Amphitryons clear the table; wafers and sweet cakes, and perfumed creams, usurp the place of Itgumes, which boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. Lan- guedoc, Eoussillon, and Provence, what brilliant associations do ye create! Spain, too, participates in this gale of glory! But, what is that ruby tint which glows amid sparkling crystal ?— what is that liquid topaz, which strikes the eye with wonder, and inspires a new gusto ? Eivesaltes, Grenache, Lunel, Malmsey, Froutignan, Malaga, and Xeres—what a galaxy of glories rises with your delicious aroma to perplex wine-drinkers. Your half- consumed corks give evidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar antiquity; the perfumed gale ascends, and your richness mantles and sparkles high ; whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously served immediately after dinner; although health and good taste concur in delaying its appearance. The aromatic gale of the Mocha berry next salutes our delighted senses. Polly produces another bottle; the silver froth rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the cork to the ceiling, or the Arbois is produced, and unites the sweetness of Condrieux with the spariding of the impetuous Ai! ’Tis then only that the wine-drinker can enjoy in diamond glasses the exquisiteness ot •veritable Tokay. Such, observes our French authority, is an outline of the didactic order in which the tributes to Bacchus must be greeted. He concludes, by rejoicing that notwithstanding all their luxury and knowledge of the arts, the ancients did not at any period excel irs in wine-making. Aristotle tells us, that in Arcadia the wines evaporated in leather vessels, till they were cut in pieces and dissolved in water for drinking: certes, these could not equal our Mddoc, Volnay, or Ai, without a drop of water. According131 Art of Bnnlcing Wine. to Galienus, in Asia wines were hung about the chimne3'S till they had the hardness of salt, and were then dissolved in water to bo drunk. Pliny, when he celebrates the wines of Italy, and the praises of Falernian, does not even tempt us; for it seems that the best wines in his time were but syrups, which were diluted with water for drinking. To conciliate a few of the varied opinions on the prece- dence of French wines, the same writer observes: Some persons prefer Burgundy; others contend for Bordeaux; a few pre- tend that Champagne, still, and of the first quality, unites the Burgundian flavour with the Bordeaux warmth; while the native of the borders of the Ehone assert that the finest of all wines is Hermitage! All are right, and each in its turn is best, especially if the matm'ation of the fruit has been successful: this is rare, for there is a greater difference be- tween the wine of one year and that of another, grown in the same vineyard, than between the wine of a celebrated district and that procured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we should take the advice of Sterne, and, like the man at the fair, every one speak as he has found his market in it. According as we have drunk SiUery, La Komanee, or Medoc, of memorable years, we ought to prefer the districts which produced them respectively; always with this prudent restriction—not to be so exclusive in our taste, as not to welcome others in the absence of better. We may admire Corneille, adore Voltaire and Eacine; but still read with pleasure Parny, Boufilers, and Bertin; and even the sublime vis comica of Voltaire does not produce a distaste for the pret- tiness and pleasantry of Picard. Although the hydi-ometer is seldom applied to domestic uses, yet it might be employed for many ordinary purposes. The slightest adulteration of spirits, or any toher liquid of known quality, may be instantly detected by it. The liquor which contains most pure spirit, or alcohol, is Scotch whisky, being upwards of 54 per cent. Contrary to what is gene- rally supposed, the proportion of alcohol in rum is greater than that contained in brandy, the former being 53-68, and the latter 53-39. The next liquor in order of strength is gin, which con- tains about 51^ per cent, of alcohol. Poi’t and Madeira contain nearly the same quantity each, 22 percent.; cyder contains about twice as much as London porter, being as 7-54 to 4-20; brown stout and Scotch ale contain each about 6^; while Burton ale has nearlj' 9 per cent. etc. K 2132 Hints for the Table. So much is the specific gravity of alcohol liquors affected by change of temperature, that thirty-two gallons of spirits in winter will measure thirty-three gallons in summer. Of this fact, spirit merchants take advantage, by making their large purchases in winter, and effecting their sales in summer. French Erandy being but slightly rectified, is not strong, but contains usually nearly half its weight of water. The reason of this is that the re-distillation of the spirit injures the volatile oil obtained from the grape or wine. Yet, much of the French brandy imported into this country consists either in part or wholly of corn spirit, and more frequently of beet-root spirit. “ British Brandy ” consists mostly of corn-spirit, flavoured. To’ improve it, put about eight French plums into every pint of spirit; steep for ten days, when strain the spirit, and it will have much of the flavour of French brandy. Put five or six drops of the water of ammonia into a bottle of brandy, cork it, and shake it well; and if the brandy be new, it will acquire nearly all the qualities of that of the oldest date. The trade mode of reducing brandy, as given in evidence on a trial, is to add three pints of water to ten gallons of spirits, by which it v/ill be reduced from seven under proof, to ten and one- eighth under proof. In America, a liquor named cider-brandy is obtained by distil- lation from cider. A very strong liquid is got by allowing cider to be frozen, and then drawing off the fluid portion. But, a far more wholesome liquor than either is the pomoua wine, which is prepared by adding one gallon of brandy to six of cider, after it is racked off. Bum is generally valued from its great age, but long keeping- is not so requisite to the goodness of all kinds as may be ima- gined. Bum of a brownish transparent colour, smooth oil}' taste, strong body and consistence, good age, and well kept, is the best. That of a clear limpid colour, and hot pungent taste, is either too new, or mixed with other spirits. Sliced pine-apple put into rum gives it the flavour of the fruit, and hence the designation, jpine-apple rumbut chemists imitate this flavour so closely as to convert not only ordinary rum but even ordinary spirit into “ Pine-apple Rum.” Good shrub is delicious: were it fashionable, it would be ranked as a liqueur. Until the distillation of whisky was prohibited in the High- lands, it was never drunk at gentlemen’s tables.^ “Mountain Dew,” and such poetic names, are of modern origin, since tliis jquor became fashionable.Wlushj BrinJdng. 133 The peculiar ilavour of potteen whisky is supposed to he caused By the practice of drying the malt from which it is made by turf, b ut this is disputed by Mr. Donovan, who inspected a potteen distillery in the north of Ireland. The distiller stated that his spirit had the same smell, whether his malt were dried with turf or coal. Mr. Donovan thinks it probable that the flavour depends on the nature of the fermentation, and the greater quantity of essential oil produced by low distillation. It is possible, however, that the turf smoke with which the mountain distilleries abound, may be absorbed by the spirit while running, but more especially by the worts, while under fermentation. The steeping of the malt in bog water before it is dried on the kiln, may also give origin to the smell of turf in the spirit. The superiority of “ smuggled whisky ” is not, however, ima- ginary: “ It is a remarkable fact,” sa3’s Major-General Stewart, “ that a spirit of the best quality and flavour has been distilled by men with their apparatus at the side of a burn, and, perhaps, changing weekly for fear of discovery; malting on the open heath, and hurrying on the process to avoid detection; yet, with all these disadvantages, the spirit thus manufactured was of superior flavour, and brought the highest price in the market. The same men, with the advantage of the best utensils, the purest water, and the best fuel, then made an experiment in a licensed distillery, yet failed to produce a spirit equal in quality and flavour to the ‘ smuggled whisky.’ ” The Quarterly Review, in an article on the Caldwell Papers, published by Colonel Mure, says—“ No mention whatever occurs of whisky in the household or cellar books of Caldwell; the Mm-es were ripened by good ‘ ail and wyne ’ until 1745, when the pre- sent vin dupays of Scotland, usquebaugh, that water of life, as this phlegethontic fluid of death is miscalled, crept down to the Lowlands after the battle of Culloden. This short concentrated dram, which, suiting a damp dreary climate, had cheered the chilled breekless Highlander, now bids fair to convert modern Athens into a gin palace and pandemonium, in spite of Forbes Mackenzie’s Act and temperance societies.” About the same time whisky began to be common in Inverness, the usual drink being claret for the gentlemen and ale for the common people. A duty on ale was an important source of revenue in the town.— Carruthers. Gin is described as a spirit distilled from malt or lye, which afterwards undergoes the same process a second time with juniper berries. This is the original and most wholesome state of the spirit; but it is now prepared without juniper berries, or is dis- tilled from turpentine and cardamoms, and a very few, if any,134 Hinis for the Table. juniper berries—which spurious ingredients give it something of a similar flavour.* Bitters should he cautiously employed, since their continued use seems to impair the power of the stomach, and leave it in a state of greater weakness than at first. Hence their employment should be only temporary, to raise the powers of digestion when they have been enfeebled by previous disease, or excessive fatigue. They likewise increase the quantity of hlood, by augmenting the appetite; owing to which more food is taken, and more stimu- lant nutrition is extracted, a plethoric state of the blood vessels is induced, and all the attendant evils brought about. These remarks apply also to the hitter in malt liquors. Hence, the full and often bloated habit of body of those who daily consume a large portion of strong ale or porter, sufficiently demonstrates the consequences of such indulgence. There has been in all governments a great deal of absm’d canting about the consumption of spirits. We believe the best plan is to let people drink what they like, and wear what they like; to make no sumptuary laws either for the belly or the back. In the first place, laws against rum and rum-and-water are made by men who can change a wet coat for a dry one when- ever they choose, and who do not often work up to their knees in mud and water; and, in the next place, if this stimulus did all the mischief it is thought to do by the wise men of claret, its cheapness and plenty would rather lessen than increase the avidity with which it is at present sought for.—Sydney Smith. * Odd things have been said of gin. Burke, in one of his spirituel flights, exclaimed: “Let the thunders of the pulpit descend upon drunkenness, I for one stand up for gin.” This is a sort of paraphrase on Pope’s couplet: “ Tills calls the church to deprecate our sin. And hurls the thunder of our laws on gin.” It has been oddly said that the word gin is associated with a name famous in poetry and romance—Ginera, or Ginuera, the favourite lady of Ariosto; which caused him to immortalize the juniper-tree, as Eetrarch did the laurel. A learned wag has defined oxygen to be pure gin, and hydrogen gin- and-water. The definition of gin, quoted from Sir John Hill, in Johnson’s Dic- tionary, is as follows: “ A sort of spirit distilled from the junipcr-ber^; what is commonly sold is no better an ingredient than oil of tiuqientine put into the stiU, with a little common salt, and the coarsest spirit.” This shows the adulteration to have been as unmasked in the last century as in our time by Dr. Hassall, and others. In Douglas Jerrold’s play of The Bill-sticker, the principal character (the Bill-sticker) falls drunk, at full length, upon the floor. “ What do you call that P” says a byestander. “ A tremendous fall in gin!” is the confident reply.WhisTcy and Gin Punch. 135> Making Punch. Foe making punch, the water should not boil, nor should it have been boiled before, else the punch will not have the creamy head so much relished: the sugar potodered will aid this effect. It should be well mixed, by stirring in each ingredient as it is added. Arrack will much improve punch: its flavour may be imitated by dissolving a scruple of the flower of benjamin (to be obtained of any druggist) in each pint of rum. The juice and thin peel of a Seville orange add variety of flavour, especially to whisky punch; lime-juice is also excellent. The aroma of the- lemon is best obtained by rubbing a few lumps of sugar upoa the surface of the peel. Several additions may be made to soften the flavour of punch; as a wine-glass of porter, or of sherry ; a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly: a piece of fresh butter; the substitution of capillaire for sugar; or half rum and half shrub. The reason for cutting lemon-peel thin is commonly thought to be to avoid the bitter white of the lemon; but it should be known that the scent and flavour which constitute the use and value of the fruit, reside in minute cells close to the surface of the lemon; and by paring it exceedingly thin you cut through these cells, and thus let out the flavour; whereas, if you pare it thickly into the white, the cells are left entire, and the essential oil remains in the peel. When, however’, the peel is cut thinly,, much of the oil remains on the white; but this may be abstracted by rubbing a lump of sugar over it. Tamarinds will give punch a flavour closely resembling arrack. A tablespoonful of Guava jelly much improves punch. Good whisky-punch, when well made, is, certainly, of all the- tipples ever invented by man, the most insinuating and the most loving; because, more than any other, it disposes the tippler to be pleased with himself. It brightens his hopes, assuages his sorrows, crumbles down his difficulties, softens the hostility of his enemies, and, in fact, induces him for the time being to think generously of all mankind, at the tip-top of which, it naturally and good-naturedly places his orvn dear self, with a glass in one hand and a mug in the other, without a wish ungratified, and as unsuspicious of evil as if not a single drop of gall, or a sprig of wormwood, existed on the face of the earth.—Basil Hall. Summer gin punch is thus made at the Garrick Club. Pour half a pint of gin on the outer peel of a lemon, then a little lemon- juice, a glass of maraschino, about a pint and a quarter of water, and two bottles of iced soda-water; and the result will be three pints of the punch in question.llintu for the Table. 136 Eegent’s punch is made as follows: three bottles of Cham- pagne, one bottle, of hock, one bottle of Cura^oa, a quart of brandy, a pint of rurn, two bottles of Madeira, two bottles of Seltzer- water, four pounds of bloom raisins, Seville oranges, lemons, white sugar-candy, and, instead of water, green tea; the whole to be highly iced. Benson Hill, however, gives the following method: put three citrons and three Seville oranges, cut the rind into slices, and strain the juice into a stewpan; add two sticks of cinnamon, broken, six cloves, and a dessert-spoonful of Vanilla powder, to be simmered in clarified sugar for four hours. Then add thejuice of 18 fresh lemons, and, instead of with water, complete the sherbet by a strong infusion of the finest green tea; add equal portions of old Jamaica rum and Cognac brandy, according to the strength required, and all being well mixed, should be passed through a sieve. Oxford Punch, by a Christchurch man: Eub the rinds of three fresh lemons with loaf-sugar, so as to extract the oil; peel finely two lemons more, and two Seville oranges. Use the juice of ten lemons, and four Seville oranges. Add six glasses of calfsfoot jelly; put it in a large jug, and stir the whole. Pour in two quiu’ts of boiling water, and set the jug upon the hob for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor into a large bowl; pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of Cognac brandy, a pint of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange shrub; stir it well as you pour in the spirit. If not sweet enough, add sugar to your taste. Cold punch, when well made, is always weaker than grog or toddy; and the acid with which it is impregnated, has not only a bracing effect upon the stomach, but operates as a diuretic— thereby counteracting considerably the activity of the spirit. The ill effects of drinking punch may be prevented by adding to it a piece or two of preserved ginger, and a little of the syrup. Toddy, the term for a mixture of spirits and water, appears to be taken from the Indian word tari or tadi, pronounced toddy by Europeans,—the sap or wine of a palm.— Craufurd. Wine and water was named Negus, from one Francis Negus, Esq., in the days of George I.; when a toping party of Whigs and Tories falling into a high dispute, and Mr. Negus being present, he recommended them in future to dilute their wine, he did: this suggestion changed the argument to one on wine and water, which concluded with the drink being nicknamed137 Liquetirs of the Chartreuse. Liqueurs. LiQUEtTBS were invented for the use of Louis XIV. in his old age, when he could scarcely endure existence without a snccessioii of artificial stimulants: his appetite, in the prime of life, was prodigious. George IV. had a like partiality ibr liqueurs. In sickness, when the least exertion was attended with faintness, his Majesty’s usual remedy was a glass of some liqueur: he had a particular kind of cherry-brandy, which he thought to be of medical use, and to which he resorted at a late period of his life. The most famous liqueurs are made at the Grand Chartreuse. There are four varieties. The principal is the Elixir; it is sold in bottles, put up in wooden cases, turned in bottle shape, and sold at a high price. The Green Liqueur is as strong as Scotch whisky, or cura(joa, but with no flavour of orange; its aroma is apparently derived from angelica plant, thyme, and sweet balm- mint, compounded with various others. The Yellow Liqueur is neither so potent nor so sweet. The White is called also the balm of the Chartreuse. Upwards of fifty plants, seeds, and flowers are used in the fabrication of these liqueurs; the chief basis being the first shoots of the pine-tree, wormwood (or absinthe), moun- tain pinks, mint, and balm, the essentials of which are distilled and mingled with greatart inthe secret laboratory of theChartreuse. The liqueur far fait-amour, notwithstanding the attraction of its name, is no longer in repute with the ladies: they have adopted maraschino in its place. Once upon a time, when a cer- tain eminent diplomatist was asked by his voisine at a fetit- souper, for a female toast, to parallel with the maseuline one of Women and Wine, his Excellency ventured to suggest Meu and Maraschino, and the suggestion received the compliment of very general applause.—(Quarterly Review. The Russians put black currants into brandy, and the Irish steep them in whisky, as the English do cherries. The finest anisette liqueur is prepared at Bordeaux. Excellent cura^oa is made at Amsterdam, at two-thirds of the English price. Anisette, another good liqueur, is also manu- factured there. To make cura9oa, put six ounces of thin-cut Seville orange- peel into a quart bottle with a pint of genuine whisky. Cork it tightly, and let the rind infuse ten or twelve days, when take out the peel, and fill up the bottle with clarified syrup, shake it well, and let it remain for three days. Then pour a teaspoonfnl of tiie liqueur into a mortar, and mix with it a drachm of powdered alum, and the .same of carbonate of potash; pour this into the bottle.Hints for the Table. 338 shake it well, and in a week the curaijoa will be bright, and equal in flavour to that imported from M alines. Ratafia may he made by infusing in brandy the fresh blossom of the whitethorn, peach or apricot kernels, or very ripe grapes, and sweetening the same. The four-fruit liqueur consists of equal proportions of the juices of strawberries, raspbendes, currants, and cherries—sweet- ened. A wineglass full in a tumbler of spring-water makes a delicious summer beverage. Walnut liqueur is made in France, by adding a pint of brandy to a dozen of unripe walnuts, with sugar or syrup to the palate. The French likewise preserve the walnuts. Ratafia, and similar liqueurs, are frequently extremely dele- terious. A melancholy instance of this occurred at Pisa, and is thus related by Mrs. Starke. Two ladles were living together, when one of them complaining of cramp in her stomach, the other gave her a wineglass of ratafia, which happened to be in the house. Shortly after having swallowed it, she died, so evidently in consequence of poison, that strong suspicions fell upon her friend; who, to prove her innocence, took the same quantity of ratafia herself which she had administered to the deceased, and ex- pired within a few hours. Prompted by this circumstance. Pro- fessor Santi, of Pisa, wrote a beautiful little work, to show that ratafia has, of late years, been made with Italian laurel leaves; the extract from which is a deadly poison. Kirsch, or as it is called in Germany, Kirschenwasser (cherry- water), is manufactured in large quantities in the Black Forest and in Switzerland; hut the best quality is made in the Forest. In France it is made exclusively in Franche Comte, the centre of the trade being at Fougerolles (Haute Saone), where several important houses are established. As soon as the cherries are ripe the trees are beaten by the peasants with large poles, and the fruit as it falls is picked up by childi-en and thrown into tubs. The juice is then pressed out by the hands, or with pieces of wood, after which the stones are taken out from the mass, broken, and the kernels are put into the cherry-juice. After the whole has undergone fermentation for a fortnight, or a month, it is distilled. The bouqutet of the Kirsch is owing to the prussic acid in the cherry-kernels. The clearest and most colourless Kirsch is considered the best; like all other spirits, it much improves by age. According to Le Normand, Kirschenwasser is “downright poison.” In Paris, a spurious kirschenwasser is distilled from the kernels of prunes.139 Hock and Soda TFater. Tlie cabbage is stated in a French journal to be a sovereign remedy for intoxication from wine, and even to have the power of preventing it; for we are assured that by eating a certain quantity of cabbage before dinner, we may drink wine ad libitum, without experiencing inconvenience. Brandy has been found a perfect antidote to drunkenness from beer. A man upon whom the experiment was inadvertently made in the south of France, described himself after the intoxica- tion had left him, as “ awakened from a long and painful dream.” This curious remedy has since been tried, and always with suc- cess : and a French physician has verified it. Onion soup is thought highly restorative by the French. It is considered peculiarly gratefid, and gently stimulating to the stomach after hard-drinking or night-watching, and holds among soups the place that soda-water, Champagne, or ginger-beer does among liquors. Who does not recollect a first bottle of mne, unequalled by its successors! We remember ordering a bottle of Grave at the Tete-de-BcEuf, at Abbeville, which was marked in the carte at three francs. It came—people may talk of Eudesheim, Bur- gundy, and Hermitage, and all the wines that ever the Ehone or the Khine produced, but never was their wine like that bottle of Grave. We drank it slowly, and lingered over the last glass, as if we had a presentiment that we should never meet with its like again. When it was gone, quite gone, we ordered another bottle. But no—it was not the same wine. We sent it away, and in vain;—and another—there was no more of it to be had. Soda Water and Summer Drinks. Hock and soda-water make one of the most delicious sue- cedanea to an excess of wine:— Get very drunk; and when You wake with head-ache, you shall see what then,—• Eing for your valet, bid him quickly bring Some hock and soda-water, then you’ll know A pleasure worthy Xerxes the great king; For not the best sherbet sublimed with snow, Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring. Nor Burgundy in all its sunset glow. After long travel, ennui, love, or slaughter. Vie with that draught of hock and soda-water.—Byron, Soda-water is the simplest stimulating liquid. To permanently weak stomachs it is generally unwholesome. It is always un- wholesome during a meal, but is an excellent beverage at some interval afterwards.140 Ilivfsfor the Tahle. Soda-water rarely contains any soda; it being merely common water charged with fixed air: it is often drunk to neutralize acid in the stomach, in which case fifteen or twenty grains of carbonate of soda, finely powdered, should be put into a large glass, and a bottle of soda-water poured on it. Dr. Graham, however, ob- 1 serves, that the practice of taking carbonate of soda and soda- water freely, is a very injurious one. In full habits, where there I is much strength, they may be occasionally taken with advan- i tage, but scarcely in other less vigorous states of the constitution, f Carbonate of soda, adds the Doctor, should never be used in 1 the tea-pot, and very seldom in beer. Seltzer-water, when fresh, has a brisk, slightly acid taste, and makes a refreshing drink with Rhenish wine and powdered loaf siigar; in this state it is, pi’obably, the most wholesome beverage in warm weather. Rut the best recommendation of Seltzer- water, is the plain fact that the inhabitants of Neider-Selters, (where it is obtained), who have drunk it all their lives, are by many degrees the healthiest and rnddiest-looking peasants in the Duchy of Nassau. For acidity in the stomach, and heartburn, Seidlitz-water is much recommended. Ginger-beer is the most refi-eshing of aU summer drinks, from -its high, close, and creamy head. A piece of anchovy will almost immediately restore the just tone of voice to any one who has become hoarse by public speaking. Coffee and green tea will be found the most efficacious anti- dote^ to intoxication, molten no sickness prevails. A dose of camphor julep is excellent. Nausea is counteracted by effer- I vescent and aromatic draughts; of the former, soda-water is the best. The Greeks used a solution of salt to counteract the effects of wine; and this is a common remedy among seafaring men to the present day; and the Romans surrounded their heads with wreaths of refreshing plants, for which we have the unclas- sical substitute of wet cloths. When Aristotle tells us that Dionysius of Syracuse remained in a state of intoxication for ' eighty days, we must suppose that he got drunk every moi'ning. To prevent thirst in hot weather, eat plenty of fresh butter at ; I breakfast: avoid drinking water as you would poison: in short, ) drink as little as possible of anything; and do not give way to I the first sensation of thirst.— Colonel Shaw’s Memoirs. ' ! A very agreeable beverage is made by mixing Seltzer-water I with Bordeaux wine, a little lemon-juice, and sugar. I* . The wholesomeness of toast and water is thus explained. ; When bread is toasted, its surface becomes converted into gum; 1 and toast and water, as it is called, is a solution of the gummy IAmerican Summer Drinks. 141 matter so produced; and gum is a nutritious article of vege- table diet. The following receipts for these American Summer DrinJcs have been contributed by Major Unett, 18th regiment, to the Illustrated London News:— Mint Julep is brandy-and-water, sweetened with pounded wliite sugar, in wliich are stuck leaves of fresh-gathered mint. Pounded or planed Wenham Lake Ice is put into the tumbler, and the di'iuk is imbibed through a straw or glass tube. At the American bars, the brandy-and- water is first put into a large silver or glass goblet, then the ice, planed or broken very small; poimded white sugar is then dashed over them with a tablespoon; the whole is then violently shaken, or tossed from one goblet to another, and served up in a clean goblet; fresh mint is stuck in the ice, a piece of lemon peel hangs over the brim, and a straw is put into the glass. Sherry Cobbler is made as Mint Julep, sans lemon-peel or mint, sherry being substituted for brandy; and when served, nutmeg is grated over the top. Stone Wall, orFence,is&n English Cider Cup, i.e., cider, wine, brandy, &c., served with ice and a straw. G-in Sling is the same as the above, but with gin as the spirit. Mississippi Punch. One glass of Outard brandy, half ditto ol Jamaica nun, a tablespoonful of arrack, a quarter of a lemon, and a taolespoonful of pounded white sugar; fill the tumbler with water and ice, let it bo thoroughly mixed, and serve with a straw. The mixture is made “ right away,” in half the time it takes to relate the process. Sherry Cobbler {Canadian receipt). Take a lump of ice; fix it at the edge of a board; rasp it with a tool made like a drawing-knife or car- penter’s plane, set face upwards. Collect the fine raspings—the fine rasp- ings, mind—in a capacious tumbler; pour thereon two glasses of good sherry, and a good spoonful of powdered white sugar, with a few small bits, not shces, of lemon, about as big as a gooseberry. Stir with a wooden macerator. Drink through a tube of macaroni or vermicelli. To a tumbler two-thirds filled with lemonade, add a wine-glass of brandy, and fill to the brim with green lime-shrub. This is very pretty tipple.—Benson Sill. The Wenham Lake Ice is now extensively used in England, and many cargoes of it are annually exported from Boston to India. This ice has one recommendation, which cannot be too strongly urged,—its extreme purity. On this account, it may be mixed with water or milk for drinking; wines or spirits may be diluted with it; and butter or jelly placed in direct contact with it. Its crystalline brilliancy is likewise very inviting, especially in contrast with the dull, not to say dirt3', ice of our country. In the deliciously refreshing American drinks, “ Sherry Cobbler ” and “ Mint Julep,” the ice itself is employed. A small l)iece of ice let fall into a glass of porter is a luxurious addition, w'hich has only to be more extensively known to be generally adopted. Another advantage of this purity is, that the ice will last considerably longer: for, in a “ Kefrigerator,” or ice-chest, a142 IlmU for the Table. block of Wenham Lake ice, weighing a few pounds, will last several days, unless it be broken off for table use, or mixing with drinks. The artificial production of Ice has, of late, been brought to great perfection. A Freezing Powder is made, by which a bottle of wine may be iced at the cost of little more than a penny! By aid of machineiy and this freezing preparation, a large castle has been frozen, in metal moulds, from the purest spring water; it was five feet in length, the same in height, and weighed nearly 7 cwt. The Patent Ice Safe is a successful invention. This is a large chest, opening in front, as well as at the top: the outer sides are thick, and filled with a non-conducting sub- stance ; the interior is fitted with zinced shelves, the ice being placed in a central upright chamber. The advantages of this Safe are not only due to the cold and at\he same time perfectly ch-y atmosphere existing in its interior, in consequence of the patented principle of the ice being contained in a separate cham- ber, but also to its great economy in the consumption of ice. Fruit and vegetables, including strawberries, asparagus, cucum- bers, &c., may be preserved in this Safe upwards of a fortnight, in a state quite fit for the table; and butter may be almost frozen in it in two hours. Smoking. Of smoking, it has been well observed, that all imaginative persons when the world goes wrong with them, console them- selves for the absence of realities by the creations of smoke. Smokers formerly considered the well-known white earthen pipe of Old England to be a more delicate mode of smoking than any other; as, by its being constantly changed, the smoker was not annoyed by the bitter taste which other pipes, by frequent use, are apt to contract. It is, however, now considered that when a clay pipe has, from long use, become blackened or embrowned, by the oil of the tobacco,—or culotU as the French call it—it is frequently improved. Dr. Lyon Playfair, in his Keport on the Tobacco in the Great Exhibition of 1851, states that “ the finest tobacco in the world comes from Havannah. But there is only a limited area in Cuba in which that tobacco is produced; so that whilst the Havannah tobacco may be of excellent quality in general, the best is the produce of a very small area, and is chiefly used in the island or as presents, a very limited amount going into general consumption. Tobacco, scarcely inferior to that from Havannah, has, however been brought from Trinidad, andSmoking. 143 the southern Russian provinces. Manufacture, on the other hand, exercises a great influence over the quality of tobacco. In Algiers, where the climate is most favourable, the cigars are n^t smokable, because they are badly prepared. Again, some En- glish-made cigars are of much greater excellence than many of the cigars imported from Havannah, and paying the highest duty as manufactured tobacco; and there is no doubt whatever that it is quite practicable to make cigars in this country which shall be undistinguishable in appearance, and not very distin- guishable in flavour, from any except those first-class Havamiah cigars which scarcely ever come into consumption.” Dr. Parr, after dinner, but not often till the ladies were about to retire, claimed in all companies his privilege of smoking, as a right not to be disputed; siuce, he said, it was a condition, “ no pipe, no Parr,” previously known, and peremptorily imposed on all who desired his acquaintance. The hooTcah is reckoned an essential part of a gentleman’s establishment in the East Indies; and every one who aims at haut ton must be possessed of a hookah, and hookah-hurdar, or servant, whose sole duty is to attend it. This machine is rather complicated, and consists of a chautfoir, a tobacco-holder, a water-vase, and a pipe. The latter varies in length, fi-om three to twenty feet, and is generally made of fine leather, wrought so as to be air-tight and flexible. The vase is usually filled with plain water; but those who wish to smoke luxuriously, put into it rose-water, which gives the smoke a peculiarly delicate flavour. The meerschaum pipe and amber mouthpiece are well known. Meerschaum is a mineral pi’oduction, found at no great distance from the smTace, principally near Broussa, and under the shadows of Olympus. Though yielded by a land of smokers, not a pound of it is sold in the native market. It is all packed and sent direct to Trieste, and thence to Vienna, to be fashioned into those many shapes of elegance and ugliness well known to all classes of tobacco consumers in Britain. Meerschaum pipes, however, are often imported into Sm3rrna from the German factories. The true material, of course, is imitated by the mechanical forger, but, by adepts, the fraud is at once detected, as real “ meer- schaum” absorl)s the essential oil, which “composition” does not. To a perfect meerschaum pipe an amber mouthpiece is essential—a mouthpiece of amber from the Baltic Sea. In the East it is still considered to be a sort of alchymised girm, or transmuted white of eggs. Of this substance, too, the thievish Greek has many imitations to sell—the best being of Bohemian^44 llinU for the Table. ^lass; kit the glass is hot, brittle, and disagreeable, while the ; amber is always cool, pleasant, and pure. ' * A snufT-box is a letter of introduction: it has been the foun- 1 tain of many friendships. When you cannot ask a stranger his opinion of the new opera, or the new ministry, you can offer him your box with a graceful as well as profitable politeness. Even when the weather and other popular topics are exhausted, a pinch is always eloquent, always conversational, always con- ■ venient. Louis XIV. was a bitter discourager of snuff-taking. His ' valets were obliged to renounce it when they were appointed to \ their office; and the Duke of Harcourt is supposed to have died I of apoplexy, in consequence of having, to please Louis, left off at once a habit which he had carried to excess. Coleridge remarks: “You abuse snuff: perhaps it is the final i cause of the human nose!” Coffee-Making. Coffee is in Arabic, Kalmali; Turkish KaJive. The English word evidently comes direct from the Turkish. The coffee-plant j is a native of Abyssinia, and not of Arabia, for it was not known at Mecca until 1454, only forty years before the discovery | of America. The true name of the plant is ban—and Kahwa, i or coffee, means “ wine,” as a substitute for which the decoction I was used, although the legality of the practice was long a subject i of dispute by the Mahomedan doctors. From Arabia it spread i to Egypt and Turkey, and from the last-named country was brought to England in 1650. In sixty years it was familiarlj’- known, at least in fashionable society, as we find from Pope’s well- known lines in the “ Eape of the Lock— “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise. And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.” Coffee exhilarates, arouses, and keeps awake; it allays hunger to a certain extent, gives to the weary increased strength and vigour, and imparts a feeling of comfort and repose. It makes the brain more active, it soothes the body generally, makes the i change and waste of matter slower, and the demand for food in i consequence less. All these effects it owes to the conjoined action of three ingredients, very similar to those contained in tea. i These are, a volatile oil produced during the roasting—a variety of tannic acid, which is also altered during the roasting—and the substance called theine, or caffeine, which is common to both tea and coffee. On the different properties of the volatile oil wliich coffees contain, depend in great measure the aroma and consequent value of the several varieties of coffee. A higher145 Making Cojfee. ai’Oina would make the inferior Ceylon, Jamaica, and East Indian ■coffee nearly equal to the value of the finest Mocha; and Payen, the chemist, says, if the oil could be bought for the purpose of im- parting tills flavour, it would be worth in the market as much as 100^. sterling an ounce ! It is a good custom to send coffee into the dining-room before tlie gentlemen leave the table; the hour bein^ previously ap- pointed, so that the bell need not be rung for it. Three hours are a proper interval between the dinner-hour and coffee. Thus, eight o’clock is a good hour, if the dinner be served at five.— Walker's Original. From the great consumption of coffee in Turkey, it is generally supposed to be cheaper there than in England; and the name, Turkey coffee, would lead many persons to conclude this kind to he grown in Turkey. It is, however, brought from Mocha, on the Red Sea. A considerable part of the coffee consumed by the Turks is obtained from our West India plantations; and Arabian, -or Mocha coffee is dearer in Turkey than in England. The finest coffee is grown in Arabia Felix, whence it is con- veyed upon the backs of camels to Mocha for exportation. There is not much of the coffee consumed at Mocha itself, where the Arabs, either from economy or preference, generally use an infusion of the husk, and coffee made from the seeds is rare even among the higher classes. Eveiy Arab lady when she visits, carries on her arm a little bag of qpffee: this is boiled at the house where she passes the evening, and thus she is enabled to enjoy society without putting her friend to expense. A good mode of roasting coffee is in an earthen basin, placed in an oven with the door open, the coffee to be frequently stin-ed with a spoon. This method is said to allow certain coarse par- ticles to fly off, and to render the flavour more delicate thau when the coffee is roasted in the usual close cylinder. The great use of coffee in France is supposed to have abated the prevalence of gravel. In the French colonies, where coffee is more used than in the English, as well as in Turkey, where it is the prin- cipal beverage, not only tb.e gravel, but the gout is scarcely known. Among others, a case is mentioned in the Fharmaceutical Jour- nal, of a gentleman who was attacked with gout at twenty-seven years of age, and had it severely till he was upwards of fifty, with chalk stones in the joints of his hands and feet; but the use of coffee then recommended to him completely removed the complaint. The only secret in making “French cofiee” is to have it roasted a very short time before it is used, to make it very strong, and to use with it a large quantity of hot milk, when it L14.6 Ilintu for the Table. is taken for breakfast. Napoleon the First’s method was to pnt the ground coffee into a _di-y pot, with a little isinglass, and hold it over the fire, shaking it to prevent burning j and when smoke rises from it, take off the pot, and gently pour in boiling water, which will at once bring out all the fine properties of the coffee without carrying off the aroma; a cup is then poured out, and returned to the pot, and in two or three minutes the coffee will be clear for use. A French physician recommends coflee made cold by infusion, to stand a day, and then be filtered; and two table-spoonsful of this coffee to be poured into a breakfast cup of hot milk. Or, the coffee, Turkey or Bourbon, should be roasted only till it is ot^ a cinnamon colour; it should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted, but not until quite cool. The proportions for making coffee are usually one pint of boiling water to two ounces and a half of coffee. The coflee being put into the water, the coffee-pot should be covered up, and left for two hom-s sur- rounded with hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperatm’e, without making the liquor boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours’ infusion, remove it from the fire, allow it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear, decant it. Isinglass, or hartshorn shavings, are sometimes used to clarify cofiee; but by this addition you lose a great portion of its delicious aroma.— From Le Manuel de VAmateur de Cafe. Soyer gives the two following receipts:— Choose the cofifee of a very nice brown colour, but not black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart a bitter flavour); grind it at home if possible, as you may then depend upon the qtiality; if ground in any quantity, keep it in a jar hermetically sealed. To make a pint, put two ounces mto a stewpan, or small iron or tin saucepan, which set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the cofiee round with a wooden spoon con- tinually until it is quite hot through, but not in the least burnt: should the fire be very fierce, warm it by degrees, taking itofi every now and then until hot (which would not be more than two minutes), when pour over a pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes, when strain it through a cloth or apiece of thick gauze, rinse out the stewpan, pour the cofiee (which vdll be quite clear) back into it, place it upon the fire, and, when nearly boiling, serve with hot milk if for breakfast, but with a drop of cold milk or cream if for dinner. French Fashion. To a pint of coffee, made as before directed, add a pint of boiling mfik, warm both together imtil nearly boiling, and serve. The French never use it any other way for breakfast. Benson Hill gives the following method: beat up an egg- two for a large pot—and mix it well with the coffee till it is formed into a ball: put it into the pot, and fill up with cold Avater; simmer it for an hour, but do not stir itj and just before147 Making Coffee. it is required, set the pot on the fire, and heat the coffee, hut do not let it hoil, and then pour it off gently. Dr. llafter assures us that the aroma of coffee is better extracted by cold water than by hot. For this pui-pose, he recommends that four ounces of good coffee, properly roasted and ground, be mixed into a pap, or thin paste, with cold water, and left to steep, covered closely for a night. Next day pour this pap care- fully on fine linen, placed in a glass funnel, in a bottle. A single spoonful of this very strong infusion, poured into a cup of boiling milk, will give the whole a delightful aroma. Or, one part of the infusion, and two parts of water, put on the fii’e till it just boils,, will yield delicious coffee. The strong essence should be kept in a closely-stopped bottle. Chicory in coffee is used, not for the tonic property in its hitter ingredient, but because it gives a dark colour to water, and as bitter a taste, as a great deal of coffee, which is much more expensive. The public taste gradually accommodated itself to the fraudulent mixture; it became by-and-bye even grateful to the accustomed palate; and finally a kind of favourite necessity to the lovers of hitter coffee. {Johnston.) And, by a piece of bungling legislation, the fraud became legalized, so that millions of pounds of chicory are annually imported into England. It is very erroneous and most expensive to sweeten coffee with moist or raw sugar: for, experiment has proved that half the quantity in weight of refined sugar will give more sweetness, and. the flavour of the coffee will he much more pure and delicate. In Holland, where coffee is generally drank by the humbler classes,, the sugar cannot he too flne for the boatmen on the canals to sweeten their coffee. In Portugal, coffee is always made by infusion, and is taken very strong, an ounce being used for one good-sized cup; yet, it is so cheap, that a small cup of coffee, including sugar and mUk,, may be had in a first-rate coffee-house for a penny. By the Steam-fountain Coffee-pot, every good quality of the coffee-seed is extracted, without alloy, from the unwholesome acid matter, which is, more or less, mixed with all coffee made by the common methods. At the same time, nothing is wasted in the process: a clear and pure essence is produced, small, indeed,, in quantity at first, hut of such strength that it may be ffeely diluted. A cup of coffee taken hot on an empty stomach, is a provincial remedy for indigestion. If a cup of coffee be stirred a few times, with a pod of vaniUa,. it will acquire its delicious perfumed flavour. l2ITinls for the Table. 148 The custom of tahin;^ coffee after a late dinner, and just before going to rest, is bad: because its stimulant properties upon the nerves of the stomach exert a power destructive to sleep—it pro- motes an activity of mind, and gives a range to the imagina- tion which prevents self-forgetfulness, that sure harbinger of repose. Yet, Voltaire, Pontenelle, and Fourcroy, who were great coffee- drinkers, lived to a good old age. Laugh at Madame Sevigne, who foretold that coffee and Racine would be forgotten togrether! For breakfast, coffee is considered better than tea. The sto- mach, needing a nourishing beverage in the morning, finds it in coffee only; needing none after dinner, it obtains a mere stimu- lant in tea. Tea-Making. The physiological effects of Tea are well known. It exhilarates without sensibly intoxicating. It excites the brain to increased activity, and produces wakefulness. It soothes, on the contrary, and stills the vascular system, and hence its use in inflammatory diseases, and as a cure for headache. The exciting effect of green tea upon the nerves makes it useful in counteracting the effects of opium and of fermented liquors. The Chinese themselves, and the Oriental nations generally, hardly consume anything but black tea. The English consume in the proportion of one part of green to four of black. The Americans two parts of green to one of black. The English in Bengal, and in the Australian settlements, scarcely consume any- thing but green. The English at Bombay and Madras hardly use anything but black; and the English and other residents settled at Canton, black. In Holland, much more black than green tea is used; and in Russia nearly the whole consumption is green. Tea, in general, does more hai-m from the quantity of unne- cessaiy liquid which it introduces into the stomach, than by its specific qualities. Unnecessaiy liquid weakens the stomach, and turns to wind.—Mayo. The danger of drinking strong green tea is not so seriously apprehended as it should be. Prussic acid has been obtained from the leaves in so concentrated a state, that one drop killed a dog almost instantaneously. A strong infusion of Souchong tea, sweetened with sugar, is as effectual in poisoning flies, as the solution of arsenic generally used for that purpose. To make tea, the tea-pot should not be scalded, which causes the escape of some aroma; if j'ou make it for youi’self, let the149 Making Tea. quantity of a breakfiist cup and a half of boiling water flow upon it, and pour the infusion out in two minutes. By this means, you have all the flavour, without too much of the bitter principle, of the tea. Put a lump of sugar into the tea-pot, and the tea will Infuse in half the usual time. Half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda put into the pot, will hasten the infusion; and should the water be hard, it will increase the strength of the tea bj’' half. The beneficial results of the introduction of tea and cofiee have been strangely overlooked or underrated. It has been described as leading “ to the most wonderful change that ever took place in the diet of modern civilized nations—a change highly important both in a moral and physical point of view. These beverages have the admirable advantage of aflbrding stimulus without producing intoxication, or any of its evil consequences. Lovers of tea and coffee are, in I'act, rarely drinkers; and hence the use of these beverages has benefited both manners and morals. Raynal observes, that the use of tea has contributed more to the sobriet}' of the Chinese than the severest laws, the most eloquent discourses, or the best treatises on morality.” Cocoa, as a nutritive, stands very much higher than either coffee or tea, in consequence of the large quantities of fat, starch, and gluten contained in it; but, owing to the quantity of fatty matter, it is apt to disagree with some delicate stomachs. Choco- late is a much less reliable article; the finest being made up with mutton suet and common sugar, together with ordinary cocoa. Other adulterations are flour, potato-starch, Venetian red, and other colouring matter. Breakfast.—Luncheon.—Suj)per. In persons with weak stomachs no meal requires to be more studied than breakfast. If the stomach is overloaded at the commencement of the day, or if anything unwholesome is taken, digestion is deranged, and the stomach will not be right again for hours.—Mayo, The carte of a well-appointed breakfast is as follows: On a table, where everything should be neat and simple, there should be as many different kinds of rolls, as the person who prepares them is able to make. These should differ from each other as much in form as in taste; and on the side table there should be some cold dishes, such as fowls, pheasants, partridges, tongue, ham, cold pates, &o. Pew persons are displeased at seeing a150 Hints Jot the Table. slight sprinkling of hot dishes, as mutton kidneys, new laid eggs, eggs and bacon, broiled cutlets, larks a la minute, deviled Ibwl, •&c. ;^in fact, all that is generally considered as constituting a dejeune a lafourchette, observing that the hot meats ought not to be served till the guests are at table. Tea (green and black separately), coffee, and chocolate, should also be served.— Ude. Chocolate is not so much consumed in England as it deserves to be; it is in greater esteem in France; it forms the ordinary breakfast in Spain; and in Mexico is an article of prime necessity. A broiled fowl is a capital luncheon-dish: if it be half roasted, then split, and finished on the gridiron, ‘it will be less dry than if wholly broiled. A sandwich, with or without a glass of sherry, is, however, ■a better luncheon. It is best not to make a luncheon a meal of habit; but to take it only when the appetite tells you that 3’ou require it.—Mayo. Raw oysters are an excellent mid-day luncheon, and serve well to allay the cravings of hunger at that hour. Chocolate is much taken as luncheon in various parts of the Continent. At Berlin, the confectioners’ shops become the general lounge and resort about one or two o’clock, for taking •chocolate. A luncheon is generally composed of cold meats, such as pates, fowls, pheasants, partridges, ham, beef, veal, brawn, and generally whatever is left, fit to be introduced: part of which is to be placed on a side-table; on the table is to be served a little hashed fowl, some mutton cutlets broiled plainly, with mashed pota- toes.— Tide. Kidneys should be eaten directly they are dressed, else they will lose their goodness. They are also uneatable if they are too much done, and a man that cannot eat meat underdone should not have them at his table. In France, they are sauti with •champagne or chablis. Suppers were the 7ieplus ultra of human invention: it could go no further, and was obliged to degenerate; dinner is too much matter of business, it is a necessity: now, a necessity is too like a duty ever to be pleasant. Besides, it divides the day, instead of winding it \ip. I do not think, moreover, that people were ever meant to enjoy themselves in the day-time.—Miss Landon. Lord Byron once made an odd experiment; to dine at midnight, after the theatre was over; but the freak failed; ■the repast was servi as a dinner, but it was more like a supper. Potted meats make elegant sandwiches; which, if cut into151 National Dinners. mouthfuls, may be taken up with a fork, and conveyed to the mouth of the fair one, without soiling her fingers or gloves. Theodore Hook describes a stand-up supper, as “ tables against the wall, covered with cold negus and warm ice; where men, women, and children, take perpendicular refreshment, like so many horses with their noses in the manger.” Ball suppers were mostly unsatisfiictory affairs, until M. Tide hit upon a plan of serving a supper, which should at once satisfy the guest by the excellence of the repast and the novelty of the ar- rangement, and the host by the smallness of the expense. This plan is to ornament the sideboard with a basket of fruit, instead of insignificant pieces of pastry. Place in their stead things that can be eaten—such as jelly, plates of mixed pastry, and sand- wiches of a superior kind, but not in too great profusion. Affix a label to each plate, indicating its contents, and you will find this arrangement will give the guests an opportunity of taking refreshments without being obliged to seat themselves at a table, from which the ladies cannot rise without disorde-jing their dresses, which to them is a matter of far greater moment than the best supper in the world. This is what is called a stand-up supper, which Theodore Hook has humorously descifibed above. A supper of the old school, however, affords the prettiest opportu- nities for flirtation; it being always understood that the sexes are to be intermingled as at a dinner party. The waste at ball-suppers of old was almost incredible. Ude states that he has known balls, where, the next day, in spite of the pillage of a pack of footmen, he has seen twenty or thirty hams, 150 or 200 carved fowls, and forty or fifty tongues, given away; jellies melted on the tables; pastry, pates, pies, and lob- ster salads, all heaped up in the kitchen, and strewed about the passages, completely disfigured by the manner in which it was necessary to take them from the dishes in which they had been served. Lady Morgan, in contrasting the cookery of past and present times, observes: “ Cruelty, violence, and barbarism were the cha- racteristics of the men who fed upon the tough fibres of half- dressed oxen; humanity, knowledge, and refinement belong to the living generation, whose taste and temperance are regulated by the science of such philosophers as Careme, and such Amphy- trions as his employers.”Hintx for the Table. 152 National Dinners, Etc. The Eomans made little use of cattle as food; and the; fatten- in" of cattle for this specific purpose was unknown to them. Neither can we find evidence that beef and mutton were eaten by the Roman people generally. Pliny mentions the use of beef, roasted, or in the shape of broth, as a medicine, but not as food. Plautus speaks of beef and mutton as sold in the markets; but, amidst the immense vaidety of fish, flesh, and fowl, we hear little of the above meats in the Roman larder. Fish and game, poultry, venison, and pork, are often mentioned as elements of a luxurious banquet; but undoubtedly the common food of all classes was vegetable, flavoured with lard or bacon. In this particular there was a great decline from the heroic ages. The warriors of Homer waxed strong and mighty on roast beef; but Rcgulus and Cincinnatus “ filled themselves,” as Lord Macaulay would say, with beans and bacon. The cattle slain in sacrifice, furnished, we must suppose, a special banquet for the epicure. Such, perhaps, were among the peculiar delicacies of the “ Sup- pers of the Pontiffs.”—Saturday Review, No. 98. The best French cooks are from Picardy; those from Orleans come next; then Flanders, Burgundy, Coui'tois, Lorraine; the Parisian last but one; the Norman last of all. A German dinner is remarkable for the simplicity of its cookery, in contrast with that in other parts of the Continent. Thus, at the primitive hour of one, after the soup, the invariably boiled beef revolves round the table, attended by its two “ satellites,”— a bowl of smoking brown gravy, and a dish of potatoes, or sliced pumpkin. Next comes fish, or fowls—then the pudding—and lastly, some sort of roast meat with its never-failing accompani- ments of stewed plums or pears, and salad. The table-d’hote is probably best enjoyed in Germany, where it is frequented by persons of the highest rank, from grand dukes and princes downwards. The stranger will find much more urbanity here than in a similarly mixed assemblage in England: the topics and news of the day are discussed without restraint; and local or general information may frequently be thus obtained. Added to this, the best dinner is always to be had at the tahle- d'liote. It answers the landlord’s purpose to provide sumptu- ously, on gros, for a large company, and he, therefore, discourages dining in private. A tahle-d’hote dinner at Weimar usually opens with potage au riz and grated cheese. To this succeed plain boiled beef and153 National Dinners. sour mustard, with a profusion of fermented red cabbage; boiled carp; light and savoury ball puddings swimming in a bowl of oiled butter, and eaten with compote de pommes. Chevretdl piqui au lard is, perhaps, next introduced; followed bjr tided fish. Next, boiled capon, with fried parsley roots, hot and hissing from the pan. Dutch cheese, pears, sponge biscuits, coffee and liqueur, follow: and the charge for such a repast is eighteen- pence ! A dinner at Langenschwalbach, in Nassau, according to Sir Francis Head, is an odd affair:— “ After soup, which all the world over is the alpha of the gourmand’s alplia- bet, the barren meat from which the said soup has been extracted, is- produced: of course, it is dry, tasteless, withered-looking stuff, which a G.’osvenor-square cat would not touch wth his whiskers; but this dish is always attended by a couple of satellites—the one a quantity ot cucumbers stewed in vinegar, the other a black, greasy sauce; and, it you dare to accept a piece of tliis flaccid beef, and decline the indigestiblo cucumber, souse comes into your plate a deluge of the sickening grease. After the company have eaten heavily of messes which it would be im- possible to describe, in comes some nice salmon—then fowls—then pud- dings—then meat again—then stewed fruit—and, after the English stranger has fallen back in his chair, quite beaten, a leg of mutton majes- tically makes its appearance.” Epicurism is the great business of the Viennese, from the noble to the working-man. A fine fat capon from the fertile valley of Styria, and a flask of genuine Hungarian wine, are more acceptable than the most liberal constitution; and a Bohemian pheasant, garnished with sauer-kraut and salmi di Milano, more palatable than the production of the most able pen. Hungary, only a few miles distant, furnishes excellent wines Gratz, in Styria, sends armies of capons; W^irtemberg and Bavaria myriads of fat snails; Trieste transports sea fish in ice across the Alps; while the Danube supplies plenty of fresh- water fish. Captain Basil Hall thus describes the dinner of a Hungarian magnate:— “We had first of all coldish, duty-looking, thin soup; then a plate of ill- cut slices of ill-salted tongue; and after a dreary interval, a dish of slices of boiled beef, very cold, very fat, and very tough. The next dish promised better: it was a salmon, twisted into a circle, with his tail in liis mouth, liko the allegorical image of eternity. But if I were to live, as the Americans say, from July to eternity, I should not wish to look upon the like of such a fish again. Yet, its bones were so nicely cleaned, that the skeleton might have been placed in a museum of natural history. Next arrived a dish of saixsagcs, which disappeared in the twinkling of an eye. Lastly, came the- roast, but instead of a jolly English sirloin or haunch, the dish consisted of what they facetiously called venison—but such venison! Yet, had the.- original stag been alive from which this morsel was hewn, it could not have moved oil’ faster. To wind up all, instead of a dessert, we were pro-Ilivta for the Table. 154 scnted with a soup-plato holdinff oleven small, dry sweet cakes, each as big as a Genevese watch-glass. The wine was scarcely drinkaWe, except- ing, I presume, one bottle of Burgundy, which the generous master of the house kept faitlifully to himself, not offering even the lady by his side, a stranger, and his own invited guest, a single glass.” The etiquette of a Eussian dinner is very formal. "WHien the guests are seated, the master and mistress of the feast remain standing, it being their business to attend upon the company, and to see that the servants do their duty. Nothing can escape their observation: your plate does not remain a moment empty, nor yom' glass a moment either empty or fnll. French wines are mostly drunk ; Madeira is also a favourite; and a bottle of port is set down expressly for the Englishman. At her own time, the mistress gives the signal, and all rise from the table. Turkish cookery is much praised by Soyer. When at Con- stantinople he described its regime as containing— Many dishes which are indeed worthy of the table of the greatest epicMe. He will not consider his Oriental mission terminated to his satisfac- tion tin he sees in the bills of fare of France and England “ their pur^e de volaiUe au rds tomates et coucombres and pur^e de Bahmia aromastide k la crime by the side of our potages h, la Eeiue, Portue, JuUienne, and muUigatawney; near our whitebait, red mullets, turbots, and salmon, their fried sardines, bar fish, gurnards, sturgeon, red mullets aux herbes, oyster pUafi', mackerel, salad, &c.; and with our roast beef, saddlebaek of mutton, and haunch of venison, their sheep, lomb, or kid, roasted whole, and the monster and delicious kebab; by our entries of suprime do volaiUe, salmis, and vol-aux-vents, their doulmas koifteo, sis kabobs, haliarram boutou, pilaff, aux cailles, &c.; with our vegetables, their Bahmia fried leeks and celery, Patligan bastici, and sakath kabac bastici; with our macedoines, jellies, charlottes, &c., their lokounda, moukahalibi, Baclava gyneristi, ckmekataive. Their coffee, iced mUk, and sherbet— in fact. Si their principal dishes—^might with the best advantage be adopted and Frenchified and Anglicised; not so their method of serving, in which they mix sweet and savoury dishes throughout the repast.” M. Soygr goes on to say that he had dined with the general-in-chief of the culinary department of the Sultan, and that for tour guests above seventy small dishes formed the biU of fare. This repast was the fac- simile of the dinner daily served up to the Sultan, who always takes his meals alone. A Persian banquet is a strange repast. The guests are first served with cofiee in very small cups, and without cream or sugar; then tea, in large cups, and at last dinner. The table-cloth, or sofra, of flowered cotton, is spread upon the carpet; and this cloth is used so long unchanged, that the accumulated fragments of former meals collect into a musty paste, emitting no very | savoury smell; but the Persians are content, for they say that i changing the sofra brings ill luck. A piece of their bread or ! cake is then set for each guest, to be used as a plate and napkin, i Then a tray is placed between each two persons, containing two i155 l^ational Dinners. bowls of sherbet each with a wooden spoon ; two dishes of pillau of rice soaked in oil or butter, boiled fowl, raisins, and a little saffron; two plates of sliced melon ; two of kabobs, or morsels of dry boiled meat; and a dish of fowl roasted to a cinder. As forks are not used, the guests dexterously scoop up the contents of the plates into their mouths, with three fingers and the thumb of their right hand. In Persia, it is etiquette to keep the head covered, and never to enter a room in boots or slippers. Our countrymen speak of being obliged to dine in their cocked hats and feathers as a far more troublesome extremity of politeness than leaving their shoes at the door. A grand Chinese dinner is an aldermanic affair. The notes of invitation are much larger than ours, and are written upon beau- tiful red paper. The company are received by hosts of attendants bearing lanterns; and being welcomed by startling music, they are first served with tea, without milk or sugar. There is no table-cloth; instead of napkins, three-cornered pieces of paper are used, and for knife and fork are substituted two little round chop-sticks; whilst porcelain spoons are used for soup. There are many hundred dishes served, the roasts being carved by cooks in uniform and tasteful costume. The whole repast occupies full six hours. On October 26th, 1858, Prince Napoleon gave at Paris a grand dinner, at which several dishes were Chinese: some of the wine drunk was from Siam (having been sent by one of the Kings of that country to the Prince), and one of the guests was a Chinese mandariu. Among the dishes were swallows’-nests, cooked in the Nankin method; fins of a shark fried; olutJmries a la man- darine ; the interior of a sturgeon d Voctogenaire, aux rondelles debamhoux; olutJmries in salad, with pheasant jelly; rice des immortels; fowl, with Japanese currie; spinach, with halicliao, such as was much esteemed' at Home under Augustus; rice in Chinese fashion, ordinary India currie, &c. The Chinese are much more skilful in contrivances for supply- ing the luxuries of the table than is generally imagined. Demp- ster’s scheme for preserving fish in ice (adopted in Scotland in 1800), has been practised in China for centuries. "Wheels driven by crews keep in life and freshness, by a stream of water, thou- sands of fish brought by boats into the Canton market daily. The French have been particularly successful in preserving pro- visions by exclusion of air; but the Chinese had preceded them for centuries in their simple and effectual methods of keeping •eggs, fish, and vegetables. Sugar is of early origin, and, perhaps, more is used in China than all the rest of the world piit together;156 ITinls for the Table. ^ and Chinese sugar-candy does not yield to our highest refined; The natives of the East Indies are excellent cooks : their stews- and haricots are capital, but a prejudice exists against these pre-- parations amidst the greater number of Anglo-Indians, who , fancy that “black fellows ” cannot do anything bc3’ond their own ' pillaus, and are always in dread of some abomination in the- mixture; a vain and foolish alai'm, where the servants are cleanly,.; and currie is not objected to. The natives of Scinde, in India, believe that fish diet pro-- strates the understanding, and, in palliation of ignorance in any one, they often plead that “ he is but a fish-eater.” An Indian breakfast is an unrivalled repast: fish of every i kind—fresh, dried, pickled, or preserved; delicate fricassees,.' risoles, croquettes, omelettes, and curries, of all descriptions; cold. meats and game of all sorts; pdtes, jellies, and jams, from.! London and Lucknow; fruits and sweetmeats; with cakes in. endless variety, splendidly set out in china, cut glass, and silver,. the guests providing their own teacups, plates, &c. The King and Queen of the Sandwich Islands, and their suite,. who visited this country in the j'ear 1825, were wantonly charged with gluttony and drunkenness by persons who ought to have known better. “ It is true,” observes Lord Byron, in his Voyage to the Sandwich Islands, “ that, unaccustomed to our habits,. they little regarded regular hours for meals, and that they liked ^ to eat frequently, though not to excess. Their greatest luxury was oysters, of which they were particularly fond; and one day,. some of the chiefs having been out to walk, and seeing a gre^’ mullet, instantly seized it and carried it home, to the great delight of the whole party; who, on recognising the native fish of their own seas, could scarcely believe that it had not swum hither on pui’pose for them, or be persuaded to wait till it was cooked before they ate it.” The best proof of their moderation is, however, that the charge at Osborne’s Hotel, in the Adelphi, during their residence there, amounted to no greater an average > than seventeen shillings a head per day for their table: as the^' ate little or no butcher’s meat, but lived chiefly on fish, poultiy, and fruit, by no means the cheapest articles in London, their gluttony could not have been great. So far from their always preferring the strongest liquors, their favourite beverage was some cider, with which they had been presented by Mr. Canning. The Spanish Olla Podrida consists of carrots, peas, carabansas (a peculiar kind of bean), onions, garlic, lettuces, celery, and long pepper, with slices of beef and ham, all boiled together, and served in one dish. To an uneducated stomach this does not157 National Dinners. seem a savoury repast; but, like virtue, the better you become accjuaiutcd with it the more you are attached to it. It is truo the garlic is apt to impregnate your breath with other than Sabeaii odours; but where all participate, none revolt. Mr. Beckford, who visited the monastery of Alcoba9a, gives the following glowing picture of the kitchen of that magnihcent establishment. “Through the centre of the immense and groined hall, not less than sixty feet in diameter, ran a brisk rivulet of the clearest water, flowing through pierced wooden reservoirs, containing every sort and size of the finest river fish. On one side, loads of game and venison were heaped up; on the other, vegetables and fruit in endless variety. Beyond a long line of stoves extended a row of ovens, and close to them hillocks of wheaten flour, whiter than snow, rocks of sugar, jars of the purest oil, and pastry in vast abundance, which a numerous tribe of lay-brothers and their attendants were rolling out and puff- ing up into a hundred different shapes, singing all the while as blithely as larks in a corn-field!” The banquet is described as including “ exquisite sausages, potted lampreys, strange messes from the Brazils, and others still more strange from China (viz., birds’ nests and sharks’ fins), dressed after the latest mode of Macao, by a Chinese lay-brother. Confectionery and fruits were out of the question here ; they awaited the party in an adjoining still more sumptuous and spacious saloon, to which they retired from the efiluvia of viands and sauces. On another occasion, by aid of Mr. Beckford’s cook, the party sat down to “ one of the most delicious banquets ever vouchsafed a mortal on this side of Mahomet’s paradise. The macedoine was perfection, the ortolans and quails lumps of celestial fatness, the sautes and bechamels beyond praise; and a certain truffle cream was so exquisite, that the Lord Abbot piously gave thanks for it.’’ At Sienna is shown “theHouse of the Brigata Spendereccia,” or “ Godereccia,’’ a club of young men, whose chief object was to collect a pui'se of 209,000 ducats, and spend it in twenty months. Their pheasants were roasted with fires made of cloves, and their horses were shod with silver. Dante has perpetuated the memory of these young prodigals in the 29th chapter of the Inferno. In Lord Clarendon’s essay on the decay of respect paid to old age, he says, that in his younger daj'^s he never kept his hat on before those older than himself, ea;cept at dinner. A Richmond Dinner Three Hundred Years Ago.—We find, in the Lansdowne manuscripts, that about Christmas, 1509, certain officials of the Court of King Henry VIII. dined together at the village of Shene, now called Kichmond, and that, at the end of the entertainment, my host of the Star and Garter, with many158 Tlitits for the Table. salutations, handed to them the following bill:—For brede, 12d.; ale, 3s. 4d.; wyne, lOd.; two leynes moton, 8d.; maribones, 6d.; powdred beef, 6d.; two capons, 2s.; two geese, 14d.; fiveconyes, 15d.; one legge moton, five pounds’ weight, 4d.; six plovers, ISd.; six pegions, 5d.; two dozen larkes, 12d.; salt and sauce, 6d.; buter and eggs, lOd.; wardens and quynces, 12d.; herbes. Id.; spices, 2s. 4d.; floure, 4d.; white cuppes and cruses, Gd.; which gives exactly one pound sterling as the total e.xpense. The Dinner in Chiildhall on Lord Mayor's Day is a mag- nificent spectacle: the Lord Mayor and his distinguished guests advance to the banquet by sound of trumpet: and the superb dresses and official costumes of many of the company (about 1200), with the display of costly plate, is very striking. The Hall is divided: at the upper, or hustings tables, the courses are served hot; at the lower tables the turtle only is hot. The baron of beef is brought in procession from the kitchen into the Hall in the morning, and being placed upon a pedestal, at night is cut up by “ the City carver.” The Kitchen, wherein the dinner is di’essed, is a vast apartment; the principal range is 16 feet long, and 7 feet high, and a baron of beef (3 f*wt.) is roasted by gas. There are 20 cooks, besides helpers; some 40 turtles are slaughtered for 250 tureens of soup; and the serving of the dinner requires about 200 persons, and 8000 plate changes. Next morning the fi'agments of the Great Feast are doled out at the kitchen gate to the City poor.—Curiosities of London. The Roxburghe Club claims its foundation from the sale of the library of the late John Duke of Roxburghe, in 1812, which extended to forty-one days Ibllowing, with a supplementary cata- logue beginning Monday, July 13, with the exception of Sun- days. Some few days before the sale, the Rev. T. F. Dibdin, who claimed the title of founder of the club, suggested the hold- ing of a convivial meeting at the St. Alban’s Tavern after the sale of June 17th, upon which day was to be sold the rarest lot, “ II Decamerone di Boccaccio,” which produced 2260Z. The invitation ran thus:—“ The honour of your company is requested, to dine with the Roxburghe dinner, on Wednesday, the 17th instant.” At the first dinner the number of members was limited to twenty-four, which at the second dinner was extended to thirty-one. The president of this club was Lord Spencer: among the most celebrated members were the Duke of Devonshire, the THE EOXBHEGHE CLUB DINNEES.159 Tlio RoxhurgJie Club Dinners. Marquess of Blandford, Lord Althorp, Lord Morpeth, Lord Gower, Sir Mark Sykes, Sir Egerton Brydgea, Mr. (afterwards Bai-on) Bolland, Mr. Dent, the Eev. T. C. Heber, Eev. Eob. Holwell Carr, Sir Walter Scott, &c. &c.; Dr. Dibdin, secretary. The avowed object of the club was the reprinting of rare and neglected pieces of ancient literature; aud, at one of the early meetings, “ it was proposed and concluded for each member of the club to reprint a scarce piece of ancient lore, to be given to the members, one copy being on veUum for the chairman, and only as many copies as members.” It may, however, be questioned whether “the dinners” of the club were not more important than the literature. They were given at the St. Alban’s, at Grillion’s, at the Clarendon, and the Albion, taverns; the Amphytrions evincing as rech&i'che taste in the carte, as the club did in their vellum reprints. Of these entertainments some curious details have been recorded by the late Mr. Joseph Haslewood, one of the members, in a MS. en- titled, “ Eoxbm-ghe Eevels; or, an Account of the Annual Dis- play, culinary and, festivous, interspersed incidentally with Mat- ters of Moment or Merriment.” This MS. was, in 1833, pur- chased by the Editor of the Athenaeum, and a selection from its rarities was subsequently printed in that journal. Among the memoranda, we find it noted that, at the second dinner, a few taiTied, with Mr. Heber in the chair, until, “ on arriving at home, the click of time bespoke a quarter to four.” Among the early members was the Eev. Mr. Dodd, one of the masters of West- minster School, who, until the year 1818 (when he died), en- livened the club with Eobin-Hood ditties and similar productions. The fourth dinner was given at Grillion’s, when twenty members assembled, under the chairmanship of Sir Mark Masterman Sykes. The bill on this occasion amounted to hll., or 2L 17^. per man; and the twenty “ lions” managed to dispose of drinkables to the extent of about 33/. The “reckoning,” by Grillion’s French waiter, is amusing.* * Dinner du 17 Juin 1815. 20 200 0 (Not legible) .... . 0 14 0 Desser 20 0 Soder . 0 2 0 Deu sorte de Glasse . . 1 4 0 Biere e Ail .... . 0 6 0 Glasse pour 6 . . . . 0 4 0 Por la Lettre . . . . 0 2 0 6 Boutelle de Cliampagne 4 0 0 Pour faire un prune . . 0 6 0 7 Boutelle de harmetago 6 5 0 Pom un fiacre . . . . 0 2 0 1 Boutelle de Hok . . . 0 16 0 4 Boutelle de Port . . 1 6 0 66 6 0 4 Boutelle de Maderre . 2 0 0 Waiters . . 1 14 0 22 Boutelle de Bordeaux 16 8 0 2 Boutelle de Bourgogne 1 12 0 67 0 0160 JlinU for the Table. The anniversary of 1818 was celebrated at the Albion, in Aldersgate Street: Mr. Heber was in the chair, and the Ilev. Mr. Carr vice, vice Dr. Dibdin. Although only fifteen sat down, they seem to have eat and drunk for the whole club: it was, as Wordsworth says, “ forty feeding like oneand the bill, at the conclusion of the night, amounted to 851. 9s. 6cl. “ Your cits,” says Mr. Haslewood, “ are the only men for a feast; and, there- fore, behold us, like locusts, travelling to devour the good things of the land, eastward, ho! At a little after seven, with our fancies much delighted, we fifteen sat down.” Ill the bill of fare were turtle cutlets, turtle fins, and turtle removed for dishes of whitebait. In the second course were two haunches of venison.* “ Consider, in the bird’s-eye view of the banquet, (says Mr. Haslewood,) the trencher cuts, foh! nankeen di.splays; as inter- sticed with many a brilliant drop to friendly beck and clubbish hail, to moisten the viands, or cool the incipient cayenne. No unfamislied liveryman would desire better dishes, or high-tasted courtier better wines. With men that meet to commune, that can converse, and each willing to give and receive information, more could not be wanting to promote well-tempered conviviality: a social compound of mu'th, wit, and wisdom;—combining all that Anacreon was famed for, tempered with the reason of Demosthenes, and intersected with the archness of Scaliger. It is true we had not any Greek verses in praise of the grape, but * The bill, as a specimen of the advantages of separate charges, as ■well as on other accounts, may be worth preserving:— Albion House. Jime 17,1818. Bread and Beer ...0 9 0, Waxlights 2 10 0 Dinners 9 9 0; Desert 660 Cheas and Butter ... 0 9 0 Pine-ice creams . . . 1 16 0 Lomens 0 3 0 Tea and Coffee .... 1 8 0 Strong Beer 0 9 0 Liqueures 0 14 0 Madeira 3 3 0 2 Haunches of Venison . 10 10 0 Champagne 2 11 0 j Sweet sauce and dressing 14 0 Saturne (sic in MS.) . . 1 4 0 ! 60 Ihs. Turtle . . . . 12 10 0 Old Hock 4 16 0 1 Dressing do 2 2 0 Burgundy 0 18 0 i Ice for Wine .... 0 6 0 Hermitage 0 18 0 ^ Bose Water 0 6 0 Silery Champagne. . . 0 16 0 j Soda Water 0 12 0 Sherry 0 7 0, Lemons and Sugar for do. 0 3 0 St. Percy 2 11 0 Broken Glass .... 0 6 6 Old Port 2 9 0 Servanls’ dinners ...070 Claret 11 4 0 Waiters ...100 Turtle Punch .... 0 16 0 ' 85 9 6Cluh of London. 16i we had as ^ tolerable substitute the ballad of the Bishop of Here- ford and Eobin Hood, sung by Mr. Dodd; and it was of his own composing. It is true we had not any long oration denouncing the absenteesfthe Cabinet council, or any other set of men, but there was not a man present that at one hour and seventeen minutes after the cloth was removed but could not have made a Demo- sthenic speech far superior to any record of antiquity. It is true no trait of wit is going to be here preserved, for the flashes were too general; and what is the critical sagacity of Scaliger, com- pared to our chairman P Ancients, believe it we were not dead drunk, and therefore lie quiet under the table for once, and let a few modei'ns be uppermost. “ According to the long-established principles of ‘ Maysterre Cockerre,’ each person had 5Z. I4i\ to pay—a tremendous sum, and much may be said thereon.” Earl Spencer presided at the dinner which followed the sale of the Valdarfer Boccaccio; twenty-one members sat down to table at Jaquiere’s, (the Clarendon,) and the bill was comparatively moderate, 55Z. 135. Mr. Haslewood says, with characteristic spriglitliness, “ Twenty-one membei’s met joyfully, dined com- fortably, challenged eagerly, tippled prettily, divided regretfully, and paid the bill most cheerfully.” London clubs, after all, are not bad things for family men. They act as conductors to the storms usually hovering in the air. The man forced to remain at home, and vent his crossness on his wife and children, is a much worse animal to bear with than the man who grumbles his way to Pall Mall, and not daring to swear at the chrb-servants, or knock about the club-furniture, becomes socialized into decency. Nothing like the subordination exer- cised in a community of equals for reducing a flery temper.— Mrs. Gore. A critic in the National Nevietu, profiting by the SandbooJc of London, and the Curiosities of London, as text-books, writes: In the betting-books at White’s and Brookes’s Clubs, which still exist, may be found bets on all conceivable subjects—bets on births, deaths, and marriages: on the length of a life, or the duration of a ministry; on a rascal’s risk of the halter, or a placeman’s prospect of a coronet; on the chances of an election, or the sanity of the King; on the shock of an earthquake, or the last scandal at Eanelagh, or Madame Cornelys’. A man dropped down at the door of White’s; he was carried into the house. Was he dead or not? The odds were immediately given and taken lor and against. It was proposed to bleed him. Those who had taken the odds the man was dead protested that the use of a lancet would alfect the fairness of the bet, Walpole has a MHivfs for the Table. 1G2 good story of a person, who, coming into White’s on the morning of the earthquake of 1750, and hearing bets laid whether the shock was caused by an earthquake, or the blowing up of powder- mills, went away in horror, protesting they were such an impious set, that ho believed, “ if the last trump were to sound, they would bet puppet-show against judgment.” One Mr. Blake betted 1500Z. that a man could live twelve hours under water; hired a desperate fellow, and sunk him in a ship by way of experi- ment. Neither ship nor man reappeared. “ Another man and ship are to be tried for their lives,” adds Walpole, who is our authority for this story, “ instead of Blake, the assassin.” Clubs are favourable to temperance: it seems that when people can freely please themselves, and when they have an opportunity of living simply, excess is seldom committed. Prom an account of the expenses of the Athenaeum, in the year 1832, it appears that 17,322 dinners cost, on an average, 2s. 9fcZ. each, and that the average quantity of wine for each person was a small fraction more than half a pint.—Mr. Walker's Original. The vulgar habit of associating the notion of gentility with expense, is invariably discomitenanced at the clubs. The Duke of Wellington might often be seen at the Senior United Service, dining on a joint; and, on one occasion, when he was charged flfteenpence instead of a shilling for it, he bestirred himself till the odd threepence was struck off. The motive was obvious; he took the trouble of objecting, to give his sanction to the prin- ciple.— (Quarterly Review. The Beef-steak Society, the “ Sublime Society of Beef-steaks,” (but disdaining to be thought a Club,) consists of twenty-four members, noblemen and gentlemen, who dine together off beef- steaks at five o’clock on Saturda)'’s, from November until the end of June, at their rooms in the Lyceum Theatre. The dining- room is lined with oak, and decorated with emblematic gridirons, and in the middle of the ceiling is the gridiron first used by the cook. The orthodox accompaniment to the steaks is arrack punch. Each member may invite a friend. The Society originated with George Lambert, the scene-painter of Covent Garden Theatre, during Rich’s management, where Lambert often dined from a steak cooked on the fire in his painting-room, in which he was often joined by his visitors. This led to the founding of the Society by Rich and Lambert, in 1735, in a room in the theatre. After its rebuilding, the place of meeting was changed to the Shakespeai'e Tavern, Great Russell-street; next to the Lyceum Theatre, and on its destruction by fire in 1830, to the Bedford Hotel; and thence to the Lyceum, rebuilt in 1834. The number of members was increased to twenty-five, to admit the Prince ofChibs of London. 1G3 Wales (afterwards George IV.); and Captain Morris was the laureat, the sun of this jovial system: in 1831 he bade adieu to the Society, but in 1835 revisited it, and was presented with an elegant silver bowl; at the age of 90, he sang:— “ When my spirits are low for relief and. delight, I still place your splendid memorial in sight; And call to my muse, when care strives to pursue, ‘Bring the steaks to mymem’ry, and the howl to my view.’ ” There was also a Beef-steak Cluh, which is mentioned by Ned Ward in 1770. Peg Woffington was a member; and the Presi- dent wore as an emblem a gold gridiron. And at the sale of Mr. Harley’s curiosities, in November, 1858, a silver gridiron, worn by a member, was sold for IZ. 3s. Crockford, who established the Club which bore his name, in the house now the “ Wellington,” in St. James’s-street, was a remarkable man. According to the JEdinhurgh 'Review,— Crockford started in life as a fishmonger, in the old bulk-shop next door to Temple Bar Without, which he quitted for “ pla^’ in St. James’s. He began by taking Watier’s old club-house, where he set up a hazard- bank, and won a great deal of money; he then separated from his part- ner, who had a bad year, and failed. Crockford now removed to St. James’s-street, had a good year, and built the magnificent club-houso which bore his name; the decorations alone are said to have cost him 94,000Z. The election of the club members was vested in a committee; the house appointments were superb, and Ude was engaged as maitro d’hotel. “ Crockford’s” now became the high fashion. Card-tables were regularly placed, and whist was played occasionally; but the aim, end, and final cause of the whole was the hazard-bank, at which the proprietor took his nightly stand, prepared for all comers. His speculation was eminently successful. During several years, everything that anybody had to lose and cared to risk was swallowed up; and Crockford became a millionaire. He retired m 1840, “ much as an Indian chief retires from a hunting country when there is not game enough left for his tribe and the Club then tottered to its fall. After Crockford’s death the lease of the club-house (thirty-two years, rent 1400Z.) was sold for 2900Z. James Smith has left us the following sketch of his ever3‘-clay life at the Union Club:— At three o’clock I walk to the Union Club, read the journals, hear Lord John Bussell deified or diablerized, do the same with Sir Kobert Peel or the Duke of Wellington, and then join a knot of conversationists by the fire tin six o’clock, consisting of lawyers, merchants, and gentlemen at large. We then and there discuss the Three per Cent. Consols (some of us preferring Dutch Two-and-a-half per Cents.), and speculate upon the probable rise, shape, and cost of the New Exchange. H Lady Harrington happen to drive past our window in her landau, we compare her equipage to the Algerine Ambassador’s; and when politics happen to be discussed rally Whigs, Eadicals, and Conservatives ^ternately, but never seriously Bueh subjects having a tendency to create acrimony. At six the roomITniU for the Table. 164 begins to be deserted; wherefore I adjourn to the dining-room, and gravely looking over the bill of fare, exclaim to the waiter, “ JTaunch of mutton and apple-tart!’ These viands despatched, with the accompany- ing liquids and water, I mount upward to the library, take a hook and my seat in the arm-chair, and read till nine. Then call for a cup of coffee and a biscuit, resuming my book till eleven; afterwards return home to bed.—Comic Miscellanies, Table Anecdotes. An amiable enthusiast, a worshipper of nature after the manner of Rou.sseau, being melted into feelings of universal philanthropy by the softness and serenity of a spring morning, resolved, that for that day at least, no injured animal should pollute his board; and, having recorded his vow, he walked six miles to a hamlet famous for fish dinners, where, without an idea of breaking his sentimental engagement, he regaled himself on a small matter of crimped cod and oyster-sauce. This reminds one of a harmless piece of quizzing in the Quarterly Beview,—that although the Pythagorean Sir Bichard Phillips would not eat animal food, he was addicted to gravy over his potatoes. The late Lord Grenville once remarked, that he was always glad to meet a law3'er at a dinner party, because he then felt sure that som(} good topic or other would be rationally discussed. What a luxury is a properly warmed room. Francis Emperor of Austria, one day observed that he believed it required as much talent to warm a room as to govern a kingdom. Some one remarked of a fire in the room, that it has one emi- nent advantage ; it gives you a motive for selecting and remain- ing in one part of it. It is the same with a dinner,—it takes you into societj'', and keeps you there. Bousseau, who felt the irksomeness of meeting for conversation in society without an object, where this resource was wanting, was used to take a knitting-needle and a ball of cotton, to occup}’^ and amuse himself with. The dinner-table does this for that cast of temperament which belongs to the shy and fidgett}'. The banquet temporarily remedies his constitutional defects.—Mayo. Theodore Hook, in his Gilbert describes an odd dinner of which he partook in the West of England. The soup was a nice sort of veal broth; at the bottom of the table was a roast loin of veal; at the top, half a calf’s head; there were four entrees—veal patties, veal collops, calf's brains, and calf’s tongue. One of the guests, who hated veal, apparently waited i'or the second course, when the fair hostess apologized: “We have no second coui’se; the fact is, we killed a calf the day before165 Table Anecdotes. yestei'da}', and we are such prudent managers, that we make a point of eating it up while it is good, and nice and fresh, before we begin upon anything else.” It was suggested to a distinguished gourmet, what a capital thing a dish all fins (turbot’s fins) might be made. “ Capital,” said he, “ dine on it with me to-morrow.” “Accepted.” ‘‘ Would you believe it ? when the cover was removed, the sacrilegious dog of an amphitryon had put into the dish, ‘ Cicero, De finihus.' ‘ There is a work all fins,’ said he.”—Sitlwer. A canning Welsh squire, a zealous diner-out, had the following not unfair bait for those who swallowed it:—“ I have a little book at home,” he would say slyly, in a corner, to such of his friends as had venison, or game, or any other good things to bo eaten, “ and in that little book is your name.” He died, however, without making a will, at the age of eighty-six.—Nimrod. The late Duke of Bridgewater, when in London, would not undertake the trouble of keeping house: he therefore made an allowance of 2000Z. a year to a friend, with whom he dined when not otherwise engaged, and to whose table he had the privilege of inviting his intimate friends. One of the best practical jokes in Theodore Hook’s clever Gil- hert Gurney, is Daly’s hoax upon the lady who had never been at Bichmond before, or, at least, knew none of the peculiarities of the place. He desired the waiter, after dinner, to bring some “ maids of honour,” those cheesecakes for which the place has, time out of mind, been celebrated. The lady stared, then laughed, and asked, “ What do you mean by ‘ maids of honour ?’ ” “ Dear me!” said Daly, “don’t you know that this is so courtly a place and so completely under the influence of state etiquette, that everything in liichmond is called after the functionaries of the palace? What are called cheesecakes elsewhere, are here called maids of honour ; a capon is called a lord chamberlain ; a goose is a lord steward; a roast pig is a master of the horse; a pair ol ducks, grooms of the bedchamber; a gooseberry tart, a gentleman usher of the black rod; and so on.” The unsophisticated lady was taken in, and when she actually saw the maids of honour make their appearance in the shape of cheesecakes, she con- vulsed the whole party by turning to the waiter, and desiring him in a sweet but decided tone to bring her a gentleman-usher of the black rod, if they had one in the house quite cold. One of Lord Byron’s odd fancies was dining at all sorts of odd out-of-the-way places. Somebody popped upon him in a coffee-house in the Strand, where the attraction was, that he paid a shilling to dine with his hat on. This he called his1 GO Hints for iJie Table. “ /irt^-house,” and he used to boast of the comfort of being covered at meal-time. Lord Byron describes “ a largish party” as “ first silent, then talky, then argumentative, then disputatious, then unintel- ligible, then altogethery,then drunk;” he also mentions ‘‘a cork- screw staircase, which had certainly been constructed before the discovery of fermented liquors, and to which no legs, however crooked, could possibly accommodate themselves.” Maplett, in his Green Forest (1567), says, it is reported “that the ele being killed and addressed in wine, whosoever chanceth to drinke of that wine so used, shall ever after lothe wine.” A wit once said to a water-drinker with a purple face, “ better things might, yiWmd facie, be expected.” Dr. Franklin pleasantly observes, that the only animals created to drink water, are those who from their conformation are able to lap it on the surface of the earth; whereas, all those who can convey their hands to their mouth were destined to enjoy the juice of the grape. The occasional worshippers of Bacchus come off cheaply; ’tis those who imitate the fuddling Silenus that generally drop into n-n early grave. As a witty old gentleman once said in the hearing of some of his hard-going neighbours, “ they never dry their nets.” The habitual characteristic sobriety of the Highlander’s de- portment often belies the copiousness of his potations of whisky, and he will preserve the most perfect decorum under the influence of a quantity of spirits which would render an Irishman frantic. “ The Irish,” said Sir Jonah Barrington, “ are drunk before dinner, and mad after it.” “ Always drinking and never drunk,” is, on the contrary, the maxim of the most intemperate High- hmders. It has been written of the Irish, that they make j’ou welcome by making you drunk. But it is to this generous virtue, excess of hospitality, that excess in wine is greatly to be attributed. Then, again, Irish gentlemen have long been renowned for one incentive to drinking, beyond the excellence of their punch and claret—namely, the novelty and point of their convivial toasts. This once called forth the cutting remark, that an Irish squire spent one-half of his day in inventing toasts, and the other half in drinking them.-r-iViimroti. The author of The Parson's Daughter, when surprised one evening in his arm-chair, two or three hours after dinner, is reported to have apologized by saying, “ When one is alone the167 Table Anecdotes. bottle does come round so often.” On a similar^ occasion Sir Hercules Langreish, on being asked “ Have you finished all that port (three bottles), without assistance?” answered, “No—not quite that—I had the assistance of a bottle of Madeira.” At large dinners in the City Halls, and in the Halls of the Inns of Court, it is customary to pass huge silver goblets down the table, filled with a delicious composition immemorially termed “ sack,” consisting of sweetened and exquisitely-flavoured white wine: the butler attends its progress to replenish it, and each citizen and student is restricted to a sip. Yet, it chanced once at the Temple, that though the number present fell short of seventy, thirty-six quarts of the liquid were consumed. Sir William Aylett, a grumbling member of the Union Club, and a two-bottle man, one day observing Mr. James Smith fur- nished with half a pint of sherry, eyed his cruet with contempt, and exclaimed; “ So, I see you have got one of those d—d life- preservers !” Some people are very proud of their wine, and court your ap- probation by incessant questions. One of a party being invited by Sir Thomas Grouts to a second glass of his “ old East India,” he replied, “ one was a dose—had rather not double the Cape and, at the first glass of champagne, he inquired whether there had been a plentiful supply of gooseberries last year. Madden relates, in the Infirmities of Genius, that a baronet well known in the gay world was seized with paralysis, and found himself on his return from a convivial party, suddenly deprived of speech, and power of moving one side of his body. Either from desperation, or an impulse of mental aberration, the gentleman had a bottle of port wine brought to his bed-side, and having finished it, he turned with great composure on his side, and went to sleep. The baronet lived several years afterwards, his intellect wholly unimpaired, his speech restored, and his general health as good as ever; and he daily discussed his bottle or two of port with apparent impunity. Madame Pasta, when in England, was asked by a literary lady of high distinction whether she drank as much porter as usual: “No, mia cara, prendoadesso.”—Quar- terly Revietu. Dr. Channing, (of the United States), was one daj' paying toll, when he perceived a notice of gin, rum, tobacco, &c., on a board which bore a strong resemblance to a gravestone. “ I am glad to see,” said the doctor to the girl who received the toll, “ that jmu have been burying these things.” “ And if we had,” said the girl, “ I don’t doubt you would have gone chief mourner.”1G8 TUiUs for the Tahle. Addison used often to walk from Holland House to the 'White llorse, Kensington, to enjoy his favourite dish, a fillet of veal, his bottle, and perhaps a friend. There is a story that the pro- iligate Duke of Wharton plied him one day at table so briskly with wine, in order to make him talk, that he could not keep it on his stomach; which made his grace observe, that “ he could get wine but not wit out of him.” The White Hor.se was at the corner of “ Lord Holland’s Lane,” (no longer a thoroughfare), on the site of the present Holland-Arms Inn. Nearly opposite Holland House, in the Kensington-road, is the Adam and Eve public-house, where Sheridan, on his way to or from Holland House, regularly stopped for a dram; and there he ran up a long bill, which Lord Holland had to pa3^ Frederick William I. patronized smoking-clubs, the members being mostly generals and stafi-officers; two of them, who did rot smoke, to conform to the king’s regulation, held unlighted pipes to their mouths, and puffed and blew like capital smokers. Tlie tobacco was not good, and the king was displeased if any one brought better of his own. At seven o’clock bread, butter, and cheese were brought in, and sometimes a ham and roast veal; now and then the king treated his guests with a dish of fish and a salad, which he dressed with his own hands. Peter the Great was a gourmand of the first magnitude. While in England, on his return from a visit to Portsmouth, the Czar and his party, twenty-one in number, stopped at Godai- ming, where they ate; at breakfast, half a sheep, a quarter of lamb, ten pullets, twelve chickens, seven dozen of eggs, and salad in proportion, and drank three quarts of brandy, and six quarts of mulled wine : at dinner, five ribs of beef, weight three stone; one sheep, fifty-six pounds: three quarters of lamb; a shoulder and loin of veal boiled; eight pullets, eight rabbits; two dozen and a half of sack, and one dozen of claret. This bill of fare is preserved in Ballard’s Collection, in the Bodleian Librarj' at Oxford. Some of our own countrymen have, however, almost rivalled the Czar of Russia and his companions. At Godalmiug, and pro- bably at the same inn that Peter patronized, two noble dukes are related to have stopped, as they intended, for a few minutes, while sitting in their carriages, to eat a mutton chop, which they ibund so good that each of them devoured eighteen chops, and drank five bottles of claret. Lord Melcombe was a friend and patron of James Ralph, the dramatist, but the silly blunder of a servant had nearly caused a rupture between them. Lord Melcombe, one day, ordered his servant to go to Ralph, who lived not far from his lordship atTalle Anecdotes. lea Isleworth, and take with him a card for a dinner invitation to Mr. Ralph and his wife. The servant mistook the word card for cart, and set out full speed with the latter. The supposed indignity offended the pride of Ralph, who, with great gravity sent back the messenger and his caii'iage with a long expostula- tory letter. Foote was ostentatious and vulgarly fine before his guests. As soon as the cloth was removed from the table, he would ask, “Does anybody drink port?” If the unanimous answer hap- pened to be “ no,” he always called out to the servant in waiting —“ take awaj'^ the ink.” Fontenelle, who lived till within one month of 100, was rarely known to laugh or to cry, and even boasted of his insensibilit}^* One day, a certain hon vivant Abbe came unexpectedly to dine with him. The Abbe was fond of asparagus dressed with butter; for which also Fontenelle had a great but preferred it dressed with oil. Fontenelle said, that for such a friend there was no sacrifice he would not make; and that he should have half the dish of asparagus which he had ordered for himself, and that half, moreover, should be dressed with butter. While they were conversing thus together, the poor Abbe fell down in a fit of apoplexy; upon which his friend Fontenelle instantly scampered down stairs, and eagerly bawled out to his cook, “ the whole with oil! the whole with oil, as at first.” It is related of Mr. Alderman Faulkner, of convivial memoiy, that one night, when he expected his guests to sit late and try the strength of his claret and his head, he took the precaution to place in his wine-glass a strawberry, which his doctor, he said, had recommended to him on account of its cooling qualities. On the faith of this specific, he drank even more deeply, and as might be expected, was carried away earlier than usual. When some of his friends condoled with him next day, and attributed his mis- fortune to six bottles of claret which he had drunk, the alderman was extremely indignant—“ the claret,” he said, “ was sound, and never could do anybody any hann—his discomfiture was altogether caused by that confounded single strawberry” which he had kept all night at the bottom of his glass. The fu'st Lord Lyttleton was very absent in company: one day, at dinner, his lordship pointed to a particular dish, and asked to be helped of it, calling it, however, bj'- a name very different from that which the dish contained. A gentleman was about to tell him of his mistake. “ Never mind,” whispered another of the party; “ help him to what he asked for, and he will suppose it ia. what he wanted.”170 Hints jor the Table. Mr. Pitt’s great recreation, after the fatigue of business, was stealing into the country, entering a clean cottage, where there was a tidy woman and a nicely scoured table; and there he would eat bread and cheese like any ploughman. He detested routs, and always sat down to plain dinners. He never eat before he went to the House of Commons ; but when anything important was to be discussed, he was in the habit of taking a glass of port wine with a teaspoonful of bark in it. Yet Mr. Pitt was a man of princely hospitalit}', and amiable nature, as appears in the following extract from a letter written by the Marquis Wellesley, who was an early, constant, and intimate friend of the illustrious statesman:— In all places, and at all times, bis constant delight was society. There he shone with a degree of calm and steady lustre whicli often astonisheil me more than his most splendid efforts in Paidiament. His manners were perfectly plain, without any affectation; not only was he ■ndthout presumption or arrogance, or any air of authority, but he seemed utterly unconscious of his own superiority, and mucli more disposed to hsten than to talk. He never betrayed any symptom of anxiety to usurp the lead or to display his own powers, but rather inclined to draw forth otliers, and to take merely an equal share in the general conversation : then he plunged heedlessly into the mirth of the hour, with no other care than to promote the general good humour and happiness of the company. His mt was quick and ready, but it was rather lively than shaiq), and never envenomed with the least taint of mahgnity; so that, instead of exciting admiration or terror, it was an additional ingredient in the common enjoyment. He was endowed, beyond any man of his time whom I knew, with a gay and social heart. With these quahties, he was the life and soul of his own society: his appearance dispelled all care; his brow was never clouded, even in the severest pubhc trials; and joy, and hope, and confidence, beamed from his countenance in every crisis of difficulty and danger.—Communicated to the Quarterly Review. Lord Byron notes: “ What a wreck is Sheridan! and all from bad pilotage; for no one had ever better gales, though now and then a little squally. Poor dear Sherry! I shall never forget the day he, and Rogers, and Moore, and I passed together; when he talked, and we listened, without one yawn, from six to one in the morning.” One night, Sheridan was found in the street by a watchman, bereft of that “ divine particle of air,” called reason; and fuddled, and bewildered, and almost insensible. He, the watchman, asked, “ Who are you, sir ?”—no answer. “ What’s your name ?”—A hiccup. “ What’s your name ?”—Answer, in a slow, deliberate, and impassive tone, “ Wilberforce !” Byron notes: “ Is not that Sherry all over ?—and, to my mind, excellent. Poor fellow! his very dregs are better than the first sprightly runnings of others.” Ozias Linley, Sheridan’s brother-in-law, one day received a171 Table Anecdotes. card to dine with the Archbishop of Canterbury, at Lambeth. Careless into what hole or corner he threw his invitations, he soon lost sight of the card, and forgot it altogether. A year revolved, when, on wiping the dust from some papers he had stuck in the chimney-glass, the ai’chbishop’s invitation for a certain day in the month, (he did not think of the year an instant,) stared him full in the face; and taking it for gi-anted that it was a recent one, he di’essed himself on the appointed day, and pro- ceeded to the palace. But his diocesan was not in London, a circumstance of which, though a matter of some notoriety to tlie clergy of the diocese, he was quite unconscious; and he returned home dinnerless. Mr. C.anning’s fund of animal spirits, and the extreme excita- bility of his temperament, were such as invariably to hurry him, nolentem volentem, into the full rush and flush of conviviality. At the latter period of his life, when his health began to break, he would sit down with an evident determination to be abstinent, eat sparingly of the simplest soup, take no sauce with his fish, and mix water in his wine; but as the repartee began to sparkle, and the anecdote to circulate, his assumed caution was insensibly relaxed, he gradually gave way to temptation, and commonly ended by eating of everything, and taking wine with everybody —the very heau-ideal of an amphitiyon.— (Quarterly Heview. (Yet this is disputed by Lord Brougham, in his Sketches of Statesmen.) Dr. Parr, of smoking memory, says: “ There are certainly one or two luxuries to which I am addicted: the first is a shoulder of mutton, not under-roasted, and richly incrusted with flour and salt; the second is a plain suet-pudding; the third is a plain family plum-pudding; and the fourth, a kind of high festival dish, consists of hot boiled lobsters, with a profusion of shrimp sauce.” George III. lived like an ascetic, for fear of corpulence and gout: he ate the most simple food and very sparingly; chou- croute was one of his favourite dishes; his ordinary beverage at table was a sort of lemonade, which he dignified with the name of a cup, though a monk of La Trappe might have drunk of it without any infraction of his vow. The king usually ate so little and so rapidly, that those persons who dined with him could not satisfy their appetite, unless by continuing their meal after their sovereign had finished, which was contrary to the old etiquette. He was so sensible ot this fact, and so considerate, that when dining without the queen, he would say to his attendants, “ Don’t regard me,—take your own time.” The king rarely drank a glass of wine, and was so indifferent to its flavour or quality, that heHints for the Table. 172 seldom had any good wine, though lie paid for it tlie best price. Tlie royal table was thus ill supplied, till one day, the Prince of Wales dining with the king at Windsor, tasted the claret, and pronounced sentence upon it: he did more, for he informed his father of the manner in which his wine-merchant had treated him, and the abuse was forthwith corrected. Queen Charlotte by no means re.sembled her consort in the above respect: no woman in the kingdom enjoyed herself more at table, or manifested a nicer taste in wine. The magnificent fdte given by the Prince Eegent, at Carlton- house, in the year 1811, was the only e.xperiment ever made at any court of Europe to give a supper to 2000 of the nobility and gentry. The largest entertainment at the most brilliant period of the French monarchy, was that given by the Prince of Conde to the King of Sweden, at Chantilly, when the covers only amounted to 400; while, at the fete given by the Prince Regent, covers were laid for 400 in the palace, and for 1600 more in pavilions, in the gardens. Some readers ma^' recollect the lavish expenditure on this occasion ; and the puerile taste of a stream with gold and silver fish flowing down the centre of the table. Plainness of taste has distinguished the sovereigns of our times in their retirement, George IV. generally dined in his private salle-a-manger, in Windsor-castle,* at nine o’clock, and not un- frequently alone. The table-service, on such occasions, was mostly of white and brown china, and not of silver, as has been stated. A roast fowl was the favoui-ite dish with William IV.; and a Mack bottle of sherry was uniformly placed on the table near his majesty. At the grand civic banquet to our gracious queen in the Guildhall, by the City of London, in 1837, her majesty par- took only of turtle and roast mutton; wines, sherry and claret. Napoleon I. was a very fast eater. At a grand convert at the Tuileries, from the moment he and his guests sat down, till the * The royal plate at 'Windsor is kept in one tolerably sized room and an adjoining closet, and valued at 1,760,000^. sterling ! There is one gold service, formed by George IV., to dine 130 guests; some pieces were taken from the Spanish Armada, some broiwht from India, Burmah, China, &c. One vessel belonged to Charles XII. of Sweden, and another to the King of Ava; a peacock of precious stones, valued at 30,000h; and a tiger’s head (Tippoo’s footstool), with a solid ingot of gold for his tongue, and crystal teeth; numerous and splendidly ornamented gold shimds, one made from snuff-boxes, value 8000 guineas; and thirty dozen of plates, which cost 26 guineas each plate. The magnificent silver wine- cboler, made by Ilundell and Bridge for George IV., is enclosed with plate-glass: its superb chasing and other ornamental work occupied two years, and two full-grown persons may sit in it without inconvemenee.173 Table Anecdotes. fofiee was sewed, not more than forty-three or four minutes elapsed. They were then bowed out. With Napoleon, the moment appetite was felt, it was necessary that it should be satisfied; and his establishment was so arranged, that in all places, and at all hours, chicken, cutlets, and coffee, might be forthcoming at a word. “ This habit of eating fast and care- lessly (it is observed in the Quarterly Review), is supposed to have paralysed Napoleon on two of the most critical occasions of his life,—the battles of Borodino and Leipsic, which he might have converted into decisive and influential victories by pushing his advantages as he was wont. On each of these occasions, he is known to have been suffering from indigestion. On the third day of Dresden, too, the German novelist, Hoffman, who was present in the town, asserts that the emperor would have done inucli more than he did, but for the effects of a shoulder of mutton stuffed with onions.” Silence does not always mark wisdom. Coleridge once dined in company with a person who listened to him and said nothing for a long while; but he nodded his head, and Coleridge thought him intelligent. At length, towards the end of the dinner, some apple dumplings were placed on the table, and the listener had no sooner seen them, than he burst forth, “ Them’s the jockies for me!” Coleridge adds : “I wish Spurzheim could have ex- amined the fellow’s head.” Sir Humphry Davy was an epicure of the drollest kind, and practised the chemistry of the kitchen: he was curious in tasting everything that had never been tasted before, and interfered himself in the composition of dishes intended for his table, thereby encountering the wrath of strange cooks, and running serious risks in inn-kitchens. Poor-man-qf-mtUton is a term applied to a shoulder of mutton in Scotland, after it has been served as a roast at dinner, and appears as a broiled bone at supper, or at the dinner next day. The Earl of B., popularly known as Old Kag, being indisposed at an hotel in London, one morning the landlord came to enumerate the good things in his larder, to prevail on his guest to eat something; when his lordship replied, “ Landlord, I think I could eat a morsel of a poor man,” which with the extreme ugliness of his lordship’s countenance, so terrified Boniface, that he fled from the room, and tumbled down stairs; supposing the earl when at home, was in the habit of eating a joint of a vassal or tenant, when his appetite was dainty.—Jamieson. ” Right to a crack ” is exemplified in the following anecdote, pleasantly related one night by the late Lord Holland, in the House ot Peers:—An English gentleman wanting a dessertHints for the Tahlc. 17-1. service of porcelain made after a particular pattern, sent to China a specimen dish, ordering that it should be exactly copied for the whole service. It unfortunately happened that in the dish so sent, the Chinese manufacturers discovered a crack; consequent!3% the entire service sent to the party ordering it, had a craclc in each article, carefully copied from tlie specimen crack; thus illus- ti’ating the imitative skill of the Chinese. “ Allow me, gentlemen,” said Curran, one evening to a large party, “ to give you a sentiment. When a boy, I was one morning playing at marbles in the village of Ball-alley, with a light heart, and lighter pocket. The gibe and the jest went gladly round, when suddenlj% among us appeared a stranger, of a remarkable and very cheerful aspect; his intrusion was not the least restraint upon our men’y little assemblage. He was a benevolent creature, and, the days of infancy (after all, the happiest we shall ever see) perhaps rose upon his memory. Heaven bless him ! I see his fine form, at the distance of half a century, just as he stood before me in the little Ball-alley, in the day of m}* childhood. His name was Boyse; he was the rector of Newmarket. To me he took a particular fahcy. I was winning, and full of waggery; thinking everything that was eccentric, and b}' no means a miser of my eccentricities; every one was welcome to a share of them, and I had plenty to spare, after having frightened the company. Some sweetmeats easily bribed me home with him. I learned from Boyse my alphabet and my grammar, and the rudiments of the classics. He taught me all he could, and then he sent me to a school at Middleton. In short, he made me a man. I recollect it was about thirty-five years afterwards, when I had risen to some eminence at the bar, and when I had a seat in parliament, on m}"^ return one day from the Court, I found an old gentleman seated alone in my drawing-room, his feet familiarly placed on each side of the Italian marble chimney-piece, and his whole air bespeaking the consciousness of one quite at home. He turned round—it was my friend of Ball-alley. I rushed instinc- tively into his arms, and burst into tears. Words cannot de- scribe the scene which followed. “ You are right, sir, j'ou are right. The chimney-piece is j'ours—the pictures are jmur.s —the house is yours. You gave me all I have—my friend—m3' benefactor!” He dined with me: and in the evening I caught the tear glistening in his fine blue eye, when he saw poor little Jack, the creature of his bount3^, rising in the House of Com- mons to reply to a right honourable. Poor Boyse! he is now gone; and no suitor had a longer deposit of practical benevolence in the Court above. This is his wine—let us drink to hw memory!”—Curran's Life, hy Ms Son,Table Anecdotes. 175 SirWalterScott once happening to hear his daughter Anne say of something that it was vulgar, gave the young lady the following temperate rebuke:—“ My love, you speali like a very young lady; do you know, after all, the meaning of this word vulgar ? ’Tis only common ; nothing that is common, except wickedness, can deserve to be spoken of in a tone of contempt; and when you have lived to my years, you will be disposed to agree with me in thank- ing God that nothing really worth having or caring about in this world is uncommon^’ The courtesy and obliging disposition of Julius Ctesar (by whom we are termed barhari) were notorious, and illustrated in anecdotes which survived for generations in Eome. Dining on one occasion at a table where the servants had inadvertently, for salad-oil, furnished coarse lamp-oil, Caesar would not allow the rest of the company to point out the mistake to their host, for fear of shocking him too much by exposing the mistake. The anecdote of Cleopatra dissolving one of her pearls in vinegar, and drinking it to Antony’s health at supper, is sus- pected to be an historical fiction. Foremost among the pleasures of the table are, what an elegant novelist has termed “ those felicitous moods in which our animal spirits search, and carry up, as it were, to the sur- face, our intellectual gifts and acquisitions.” Of such moods Sir Thomas Lawrence took peculiar advantage; for it is related that he frequently invited his sitters (for their portraits) to partake of the hospitalities of his table, and took the most favour- able opportunity of “ stealing ” from them theii- “ good looks,” traits which he felicitously transferred to canvas. Von Eaumer, in his observations upon London society, re- marks, that “ eating and drinking seem to produce no effect upon the EngUsh.” “ I do not applaud,” continues he, “ inordinate and boisterous talking after dinner; but, that people should be just as cold, quiet, and composed at the end as at the beginning ; that the wine should produce no apparent effect, is too dry and formal to my liking. Perhaps the old-fashioned tippling was so disgusting that people now shun the slightest approach to joviality; oi', perhaps, port and sherry oppress rather than ele- vate, and have little power in transforming gloomy fogs into sky- blue fantasies. In short, I am for the German plan; frank, lively conversation, even though it be a little too long and too loud; light wine, and a light heart; and, at parting, jo}''ous spirits, and only just mathematics enough to perceive that five is an even number.” Lord Byi-ou knew a dull man who lived on a bon mot of176 Hints for the Table. Moore’s for a, week ; and liis lordship once offered a wager of a considerable sum that the reciter was guiltless of understanding its point; but he could get no one to accept the bet. “ Gasconade ” originated from the immoderate boasting of wit, wealth, and valour, by the people of Gascony, in France. Itut the wit and piquancy should be intermixed with self-exaltation, as in the following: A Gascon, in proof of his nohilit}', asserted that in his father’s castle they used no other firewood but the batons of the different Marshals of France in his family. Nor must we forget the Gascon general, who, by the lucky grazing of a bullet on the roll of his stocking, took occasion to halt all his life after.—(See Tatler, No. 77.) The parvenu who made a sweet fire with his claret corks, was a vulgar gascon. The voice, if very strong and sharp, will crack a drinking- glass. One evening, at a party at the London Coffee House, Ludgate HiH, Mr. Broadhurst, the well-known tenor, by singing a high note, caused a wine-glass on the table to break, the bowl being separated from the stem. 'The antiquity of toothpicks is proved by the statement of Agathocles, the wealthy ruler of Syracuse, in 289 b.c., having been poisoned by means of a medicated quill, handed to him for cleaning his teeth after dinner. The origin of Punch is thus explained in Dr. Doran’s clever and very amusing History of Court Pools : In the days of King Philip the Macedonian, whenever a man fold an extremely witty story, he was pretty sure to be met Mth the remai-k, “Ah, that comes from the Sixty.” It was as much as doubting the originality of the wit. “ The Sixty” was, in fact, a club of wits. They met in Athens, not at a tavern, but in the Temple of Hercules. They were fellows who had the very highest opinion of their own abilities, for they regularly entered in a book all the witticisms of the evening. This was, probably, the very first jest-book ever put together. To listen to it, when the secretary took it with him to private parties, must have been an antepast of Punch. The precious book has perished, but Athenoeus has preserved the names of a few of the members, which, however, are not worth repeating, though it may be stated that the owners had also nicknames; and one tall, clever, nimble fellow, Callimedes, was familiarly hailed by his follow-clubbists as “ the Grasshopper.” Philip heard of this merry, social, rvitty company, and longing to know merre of them, their sayings and doings, he chd not, indeed, invite them to his distant court, but he sent them a talent (nearly 2001. sterling), and requested the loan of the last volume of the transactions of the “ Sixty Club.” The book was duly despatched ; and, perhaps, the loan of a volume was never paid for at so high a rate: the authors thus played the part of court fools by deputy. Their jokes were stereotj’ped, and had a long and merry life of it. It was useless for any man to fire one off as his own, for the source was instantly discovered, and the company would derisively call out, “ An old Sixty!” just as dull retailers of faded jests are suppressed in our own day, by the crj of “An old Joe!”Table Anecdotes. 177 Here are a few choice specimens of Talleyrand’s table wit: Talleyrand beings asked, if a certain authoress, whom he had lono- since known, but who belonged rather to the last age, was not°“ a little tiresome ?” “ Not at all,” said he, “ she was per- fectly tiresome.” A o'entleman in company was one day making a somewhat zealous eulogy of his mother’s beauty, dwelling upon the topic at uncalled-for length—he himself having certainly inherited no portion of that kind under the marriage of his parents. “ It was your father, then, apparently, who may not have been very well favoured,” was Talleyrand’s remark, which at once released the circle from the subject. When Madame de Stael published her celebrated novel of “Delphine,” she was supposed to have painted herself in the person of the heroine, and M. Talleyrand in that of an elderly lad}"^, who is one of the principal characters. “ They tell me,” said he, the first time he met her, “ that we are both of us in your novel, in the disguise of women.” Kulhieres, the celebrated author of the work on the Polish revolution, having said, “ I never did but one mischievous work in my life.” “ And when will it be ended ?” was Talleyrand’s repl}\ “ Is not Geneva dull P” asked a friend of Talleyrand. “ Espe- cially when they amuse themselves,” was the reply. “ She is insupportable,” said Talleyrand, with marked emphasis, of one well-known; but, as if he had gone too far, and to take something off what he had said, he added, “ It is her only defect.” “ Ah ! I feel the torments of hell,” said a person, whose life had been supposed to be somewhat of the loosest. “Ah'eady ?” was the inquiry suggested to M. Talleyrand. Certainly, it came naturally to him. It is, however, not original; the Cardinal de Eetz’s physician made a similar exclamation on a like occasion. Nor ought we to pass over the only mot that will ever be re- corded of Charles X., uttered on his return to France, in 1814, on seeing, like our second Charles on a similar reception, that the adversaries of his family had disappeared—“ There is only one Frenchman the more.” This was the suggestion of M. Talley- rand. He aftei’wards proposed, in like manner, to Charles’s suc- cessor, that the foolish freaks of the Duchess de Berri should be visited with this rescript to her and her faction : “ Madame, no hope remains for you. You will be tried, condemned and par- doned.” Ude, when in Paris, had fallen in love, and matters were nearly brought to matrimony. Previous to this conclusion, Udo, N178 Hintsfor the Table. however,prudently made a calculation (hewas an excellent steward,) ■of the expenses of married life, and in the estimate set down Madame’s expenditure at so many louis. Now, Ude customarily conveyed his billets in an envelope of paUs, and he intended to shroud his offer in a pdtS d'Amande; but, unfortunately, in the confusion of love and cookery, the estimate of housekeeping was sent instead of the proposal. The next day, Ude was apprised of his mistake by a letter from his mistress, stating the high esti- mation in which she held M. Ude; but that as louis were too small an allowance for a woman of fashion, she must decline the honour of becoming Madame Ude. The story got wind, and by a sort of lucus-a-non-lucendo analogy, the name of P&ti d’Amande was changed into Pdti d'Amour. Mr. Coleridge’s was the only conversation we ever heard in which the ideas seemed set to music—it had the materials of philosophy and the sound of music; or if the thoughts were sometimes poor and worthless, the accompaniment was always line. Coleridge sometimes told a story well, though but rarely. He used to speak with some drollery and unction of his meeting in his tom' in Germany with a Lutheran clergyman, who ex- pressed a great curiosity about the fate of Dr. Dodd in a Latin gibberish which he could not at first understand. “ Doctorem Tott, Doctorem Tott! Infelix homo, collo suspensus!”—he called out in an agony of suspense, fitting the action to the word, and the idea of the reverend divine just then occm-ring to Mr. Coleridge’s imagination. The Germans have a strange super- stition that Dr. Dodd is still wandering in disguise in the Hai'tz forest in Germany; and his Prison Thoughts are a favourite book with the initiated. Sir James Mackintosh had a gi'eat deal of humour; and, among many other examples of it, he kept a dinner party at his own house for two or three hours in a roar of laughter, playing upon the simplicity of a Scotch cousin, who had mistaken the Hev. Sydney Smith for his gallant synonym, the hero of Acre. Cookery was quite as much the Earl of Peterborough’s hobby 4is War. It appears to have been far- from unusual for him to assist at the preparation of a feast over which he was about to preside; and, when at Bath, he was occasionally seen about the streets, in his blue ribbon and star-, carrying a chicken in his hand, and a cabbage, perhaps, under each arm. Cambaceres, second consul under the French republic, and arch-chancellor under the empire, having one day been detained in consultation with Napoleon beyond the appointed hour of •dinuer, begged pardon for suspending the conference, but it was179 Table Anecdotes. absolutely necessary for him to despatch a special messenger im- mediately : then seizing a pen, he wrote this billet to his cook: “ Sauvez les entremets—les entrSes sent perdues.” Mr. Wellesley Pole Used to say, that it was impossible to- live like a gentleman in England under 40,000Z. a year; and Mr. Brummell told a lady how much she ought to allow her son for dress—that it might be done for 800Z. a year, with strict economy. M. Senior, in an excellent Essay on Political Economy,, in the 'Encyclopcedia Metropolitana, states, that a carriage for a woman of fashion must be regarded as one of the necessaries of life; and we presume he would be equally imperative in demand- ing a cabriolet for a man.— Q^narterly Review. When Dr. Johnson was asked why he was not invited out to- dine as Garrick was, he answered, as if it was a triumph to him, “ Because great lords and ladies don’t like to have their mouths stopped!” But who does like to have his mouth stopped ? Did he, more than others ? People like to be amused in general; but they did not give him the less credit for ^visdom, and a capacity to instruct them by his writings. In like manner it has been said that the king only sought one interview with Dr. Johnson ; whereas, if he had been a buffoon or a sycophant, he would have asked for more. No; there was nothing to complain of. It was a compliment paid by rank to letters, and once was enough. The king was more afraid of this interview than Dr. Johnson was, and went to it as a schoolboy to his task. But he did not want to have this trial repeated every day; nor was it necessary. The- very jealousy of his self-love marked his respect; and if he had thought less of Dr. Johnson, he would have been more willing to i-isk the encounter. They had each their place to fill, and would best preserve their self-respect, and perhaps their respect for each other, by remaining in their proper sphere. So they made an outcry about the Prince leaving Sheridan to die in absolute want. He had left him long before. Was he to send every day to know if he was dying ? These things cannot be helped, without ex- acting too much of human natme.—Northcote's Conversations. A nice point is thus settled in Roswell’s Life of Rr. Johnson.. —Roswell, “ I consider distinction of rank to be of so mirch importance in civilized society, that if I were asked on the same- day to dine with the fia-st duke in England, and with the first man in Britain for genius, I should hesitate which to prefer.”— Johnson. “ To be sure, sir, if you were to dine only once, and it were never to be known whei’e you dined, you would choose rather to dine with the first man for genius; but, to gain respect, you should dine with the first duke in England. For nine people in ten that you meet with would have a higher opinion of you forHints for the Talle. 180 having dined with a duke; and the great genius himself would receive you better because you had been with the great duke.” Lord Chancellor Erskine would sit upon the bench, and having sketched a turtle upon a card, with a certain day and hour, would pass it to a friend in court as a dinner invitation. A city lawyer is related to have carried in his pocket written cards—as follows: __« Turbot and lobster-sauce, sir, at six; shall be happy in having your companywhich invitation he handed about very liberally to friends’ friends, &c. He lived like a prince in the country: the usual amount of his maltster’s bill was 700^.; and once he malted the pi'oduce of twenty acres of barley, of his own growing; but the bill was not 10^. less for that. Have your name clearly announced on going to a party, and it will be prudent to take care that the servants make no mistake regarding it. The mishap that, as we read, befell a certain Mr. Delaflete, in London, may serve to illustrate the consequence of want of caution in this respect. From the indistinct mode of pronouncing his name, the porter understood it to be Delajlote and so proclaimed it to the groom of the chambers, who, some- how or other, mistook the initial letter of the name, and the luckless visitor, a quiet, shy, reserved young man, was actually ushered into the midst of a crowded drawing-room by the omi- nous appellation of Mr. Melaflote. On the other hand, do not be too precise in your instructions, or you may be placed in the predicament of Lady A. and her daughter, who having been much annoyed by the gauclieries of a country booby of a servant, who would persevere in giving in their names as the Right Honourable Lady A. and the Honourable Miss A., at length took him seriously to task, and desired that in future he would men- tion them as simple Lady A. and plain Miss A. Their astonish- ment may be conceived when they found themselves obeyed to the letter—and Devonshire House was electrified by the intelli- gence that Simple Lady A. and Plain Miss A. were “coming up.” Ferdinand I. of Naples prided himself upon the variety and excellence of the fruit produced in his royal gardens, one of which was called Paradise. Duke Hercules, of Ferrara, had a garden, celebrated for its fruits, in one of the islands of the Po. The Duke of Milan, Ludovico, carried this kind of luxury so I'ar, that he had a travelling fruit garden, and the trees were brought to bistable, or into his chamber, that he might, with his own hands, gather the growing fruit. Chai'les II. dined with the citizens of London the year that Sir Robert Viner was mayor, who getting elated with continually toasting the royal family, grew a little fond ot his majesty.181 Talle Anecdotes. *‘The king understood very well how to extricate himself in all kinds of difficulties, and, with a hint to the company to avoid ceremony, stole off, and made towards his coach, which stood ready for him in Guildhall-yard. But the mayor liked his com- pany so well, and was grown so intimate, that he pursued him hastily, and catching him fast by the hand, cried out with a vehement oath and accent, ‘ Sir, you shall stay and take t’other bottle!’ The airy monarch looked kindly at him over his shoulder, and with a smile and graceful air (for I saw him at the time, and do now) repeated this line of the old song : • ‘ He that is drunk is as great as a king,’ and immediately returned back and complied with his landlord.” —Spectator, No. 462. Altogether, Charles dined nine times with the citizens. That hard-drinking was introduced from Flanders and Hol- land, and other northern countries, seems probable from the derivation of many of the expressions used in carousing. The phrase of being “ half-seas-over,” as applied to a state of drunk- enness, originated from op zee, which, in Dutch, means over sea; and Gifford informs us that it was a name given to a stupefying beer introduced into England from the Low Countries, and called op zee. An inebriating draught was also called an up see freese, from the strong Friesland beer. The word “ carouse,” according to Gifford and ISlount, is derived from the name of a large glass, called by the Danes rouse, or from the German words, gar, all, and aus—hence drink all out. “ Hob-nob,” the phrase, now only used convivially, to ask a person whether he will have a glass of drink or not, is most evi- dently a corruption of the old hab-nah, from the Saxon habban, to have, and nabban, not to have; in proof of which Shakespeare has used it to mark an alternative of another kind: “ And his incensement at the moment is so implacable, that satisfaction can he none but by pangs of death and sepulchre; hob-nob is his word; give’t or take’t.”—Twe^th Night, act iii. sc. 4. The peach (we gather from Dr. Daubeny’s Lectures on Roman husbandry) was brought from Persia, and Columella alludes to the fable of its poisonous qualities. “Could this mistake arise,” asks Dr. Daubeny, “ from a knowledge of the poisonous properties of the prussic acid existing in the kernels of the peach ?” It may be observed that a notion prevailed in Egypt, probably referring to the secret of the Psylli, that a citron eaten early in the morning was an antidote against all kinds of poison. Its juice, injected into the veins, would have a similar efiect. Blackberries, when perfectly ripe, were eaten' by the Koman^, and by the Greeks were considered a preventive of gout.182 Hints for the Table. It is related that at a roaring dinner of a round dozen of jolly Irishmen, all were extended in due time upon the floor, ex- cept two heroes, who drank seven bottles of claret more between them, and beginning then to complain of a great “ chill in their stomachs,” from that thin cold French stuff, finished a bottle of brandy between them, and walked home (somehow or other). Alexander Newell, Dean of St. Paul’s, and Master of West- minster School, in the reign of Queen Mary, was an excellent angler. But (says Puller) while Newell rvas catching of fishes. Bishop Bonner was catching of Newell, and would certainly have sent him to the shambles, had not a good London merchant con- veyed him away upon the seas. Newell was fishing upon the banks of the Thames when he received the first intimation of his danger, which was so pressing, that he dare not go back to his owa house to make any preparation for his flight. Like an honest angler, he had taken with him provision for the day: and when, in the first year of England’s deliverance, he returned to his country and his old haunts, he remembered that, on the day of his flight, he had left a bottle of beer in a s.afe place on the bank; there he looked for it, and “ found it no bottle, but a gun—such the sound at the opening thereof; and this (says Puller) is be- lieved (casualty is mother of more invention than industry) the origin of Bottled Ale in England.” The pleasures of the table, when used in moderation, admit of some defence; they promote social intercourse. Man, unlike animals, is in best humour when he is feeding, and more dis- posed than at other times to cultivate those amicable relations by which the bonds of society are strengthened. The influence of this principle is more acknowledged in England than in any other country. With us, no public meeting is valid without a dinner; no party leader is chartered in public estimation, till his services have been anticipated or acknowledged, and his public principles pledged, amidst circling bumpers and convivial cheers. Even charity obeys the same law; and the beneficent institutions for the sick, and the lame, and the blind, find increase of propriety in their annual festive celebrations.—Mayo. Sir Walter Scott has left these few simple rules of presidency : “ 1st. Always hurry the bottle round for five or six rounds, without prosing yourself, or permitting others to prose. A slight filip of wine inclines people to be pleased, and removes the ner- vousness which prevents men from speaking—disposes them, in short, to be amusing, and to be amused. “ 2nd. Push on^ keep moving ! as young Eapid says. Do not think of saying fine things—nobody cares for them anj' moreRtiles for a Chairman. 183 than for fine music, which is often too liberally bestowed on such occasions. Speak at all ventures, and attempt the mot four rire. You will find people satisfied with wonderfully indifferent jokes, if you can but hit the taste of the company, which depends much on its character. Even a very high party, primed with all the cold irony and non est tanti feelings, or no feelings of fash- ionable folks, may be stormed by a jovial, rough, round, and ready preses. Choose your text with discretion—the sermon may be as you like. Should a drunkard or an ass break in with any- thing out of joint, if you can parry it with a jest, good and well —if not, do not exert your serious authority, unless it is some- thing very had. The authority even of a chairman ought to be very cautiously exercised. With patience, you will have the support of every one. “ 3rd. When you have drunk a few glasses to play the good- fellow, and banish modesty—(if you are unlucky enough to have such a troublesome companion)—then beware of the cup too much. Nothing is so ridiculous as a drunken preses. “ Lastly, always speak short, and Skeoch dock na skiel—cut a tale with a drink. ‘ This is the purpose and intent Of gude Schir Walter’s testament.’” One of the greatest sources of complaint in society, is the want of propriety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family dinner to the splendid banquet: for instance, a family dinner ; a family dinner to which guests are admitted; a common dinner party; an entertainment; a bachelor’s dinner; a ministerial dinner; and a dress dinner. Though these and similar other entertainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of society. At the plainest as well as the most splendid of these entertainments, everything ought to he as good and as well cooked, and nice as possible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous. For real taste does not indiscriminately present turtle and venison on every occasion : something more delicately palatable and less obtrusive is presented with the zest of a fine mango, high flavoured vinegars, well-made sauces, nice salads, and appropriate wines; with the charms of well supported con- versation, affording an uncloying feast throughout the year.— Beauvilliers. A visit should never exceed three days, “ the rest day—the drest day—and i\iQprest day.”184 Hints for the Table. A true fine gentleman is what one seldom sees : in him appear all the griat and solid perfections of life, with a beautiful gloss and varnish: everything that he says or does is accompanied with a manner, or rather a charm that draws the admiration and goodwill of every beholder.—Steele. Good manners is the art of making those people ea.sy with whom we converse: whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best bred man in company.—Swift. The polite of every country seem to have but one character. A gentleman of Sweden differs but little, except in triffes, from one of any other country. It is among the vulgar that we are to find those distinctions which characterize a people.—Gold- smith. Let a man’s pride be to he a gentleman: furnish him with elegant and refined pleasures, imbue him with the love of intel- lectual pursuits, and you have a better security for his turning out a good citizen, and a good Christian, than if you have con- fined him by the strictest moral and religious discipline, kept him in innocent and unsuspecting ignorance of all the vices of youth, and in the mechanical and orderly routine of the severest sj'stem of education.— (Quarterly Review. Whoever is open, loyal, and true; whoever is of humane and affable demeanour; whoever is honourable in himself, and in his judgment of others, and requires no law but his word to make him fulfil an engagement—such a man is a gentleman.—Re Vere. Full dress, after all, is the test of the gentlewoman. Common people are frightened at an unusual toilette; they think that finer clothes deserve finer manners, forgetting that any manner to be good, must be that of every day.—Miss Landon. “ I know,” says Balzac, “ no such sure test of a gentleman as this, that he never corrects a solecism in conversation, or seems to know that a solecism has been committed. There is the Marquis de (we forget his title), confessedly the best bred man in France, and one of the most learned and eloquent, to whom a Provencal may talk two hours without losing the impression that he delights the Marquis by the purity of his diction; whereas, there is hardly a little ahhi, or avoeat, or illiterate parvenu, to whom one can speak without being corrected at every third sentence.” THE END.4 novels at one W. H. AINSWORTH. Windsor Castle. The Tower of London. The Miser’s Daughter. Rook wood. Old St. Paul’s. Crichton. Guy Fawkes. The Spendthrift. Janies the Second. The Star Chamber. The Flitch of Bacon. Lancashire Witches. Mervyn Clitheroe. Ovingdean Grange. St. James's. Aunol. Jack Sheppard. WM. OARLETON. Jane Sinclair. The Clarionet. The Tithe Proctor. Fardarougha. The Emigrants. J.FENIMORE COOPER. The Pilot. Last of the Mohicans. The Pioneers. The Red Rover. The Spy.. Lionel Lincoln. The Deerslayer. The Pathfinder. The Bravo. The Waterwitch. Two Admirals. Satan St oe. Afloat and Ashore. Wyandotte. Eve Efiingham. Miles Wallingford. The Headsman. The Prairie. Homeward Bound. The Borderers. Julie de Bourg. Lilias Davenant. The Soldier of Fortune. Compulsory Marriage. Stories of Waterloo The Divorced. The Albatross. Cinq Mars. Zin^a, the Gipsy. The Little Wile. Adelaide Lindsav. “ Emilia Wyndham.” A Family Feud. Tom Jones. A Week with Mossoo. The Sea Lions. Precaution. The Oak Openings. Mark’s Reef. Ned Myers. Heidenmauer. CHARLES DIOBiENS. j Sketches by Boz. | The Pickwick Papers. Oliver Twist. Nicholas Nickleby. ALEXANDRE DUMAS. The Three Musketeers. Twenty Years After. Dr. Basilius. The Twin Captains. Captain Paul. Memoirs of a Physician. 2 vols. (is. each.) The Chevalier de Mai- son Rouge. The Queen’s Necklace. Countess de Charny. Monte Cristo, 2 vols. (IS. each.) Nanon. The Two Dianas. The Black Tulip. The Forty-five Guards- men. The Taking of the Bas- tile, 2 vols. (IS. each.) Chicot, the Jester. The Conspirators. Ascanio. Page of Duke of Savoy. Is^el of Bavaria. Beau Tancrede. The Regent’s Daughter. Pauline. Catherine Blum. The Ingenue. The Russian Gipsy. The Watchmaker. The Corsican Brothers. SHILLING. GERALD GRIFFIN. The Munster Festivals. ■Tlie Rivals. The Colleen Bawn. NATH. HAWTHORNE. The Scarlet Letfer. House of Seven Gables. Mosses from an Old Manse. Lord LYTTON. Kenelm Chillingly. The Parisians, 2 vols. Falkland and Zicci. Pelham. Paul Cliflbrd. Eugene Aram. Rienzi. Leila, and The Pilgrims of the Rhine. The Last of the Barons. Ernest Maltravers. Godolphin. The Disowned. Devereux. Oapt. MARRYAT. Peter Simple. The King’s Own. Midshipman Easy. Rattlin the Reefer. Pacha of Many Tales. Newton Forster. Jacob Faithful. The Dog Fiend. Japhet in Search of a Father. The Poacher. The Phantom Ship. Percival Keene. Valerie. Frank Mildmay. Olla Podrida. Monsieur Violet. The Pirate, and The Three Cutters. VARIOUS Stewart. Curling. Maillard. Maxwell. Lady C. Burv. Kingston. De Vigny. Maillard. Mrs. Grey. Author of By T. Cooper. Fielding. C. Ross. AUTHORS. Out for a Holiday with Cook. Sketchley. Tristram Shandy, and A Sentimental Journey. Sterne. The Mountaineer of the Atlas. W. S. Mayo. The Mysteries of Udolpho. Com- plete Edition. Mrs. Radcliffe. Log of the “Water Lily” during Three Cruises. Through the Keyhole. J. M. Jephson. King Dobbs. James Hannay. Fairy Water. Author of “ George Gcith.’’ The Hobbses and Dobbses. GEORGE JiOUTLEDGE <S- SONS.5 NOVELS AT ONE,SHILLING, coniinued. Light and Darkness. Mrs. Crowe. Lily Dawson. Ditto. The Haunted House. Gerstaeoker. A Sailor’s Adventures. Ditto. Pirates of the Mississippi. Ditto. The Duke. Mrs. Grey. Longbdard, King of the People. C. SIackay Valentine Vox. Complete Edition. COCKTON. Peregrine Pickle. Complete Edition. Smollett; NOVELS AT SIXPENCE. Unabridged. Lord LYTTON. . The Author's Copyright Revised Edition, in which are given the latest revisions and corrections made by the A uthor, together with the Prefaces he wrote to me various Editions of his Novels published during his lifetime. No other 6d. Edition contains these Pre- faces and Revisions. Eugene Aram, with Three Prefaces. Godolphin. The Last Days of Pompeii, with Two Prefaces; Rienzi, with Dedication and Two Prefaces. Ernest Maltravers, with a Preface. Paul Clifford, with Two Prefaces. Leila, Calderon the Courtier, and The Pilgrims of the Rhine, in One Volume. Falkland and Zioci, with a Prefatory Note. Pelham, with Dedication. The Disowned, with a Preface. Devereux, with a Preface. Alice ; or. The Mysteries. Sequel to “ Ernest Maltravers.” .. New Copyright Volumes. Night and Morning. Zanoni. EUGENE SUE. : Wandering Jew. Part I (The Transgression). Do. Part 2 (The Chastisement). Do. Part 3 (The Redemption). • The Mysteries of Paris. Part I (Morning). Ditto. Part 2 (Noon). Ditto. Part 3 (Night). The CHARLES DICKENS. The Pickwick Papers. 3 Parts (6rf. each). Nicholas Nickleby. 2 Parts (fid. each). Oliver Twist. Sketches by Boz. HENRY FIELDING. Tom Jones. 2 Vols. (6rf. each). Joseph Andrews. Amelia. TOBIAS SMOLLETT. Roderick Random. Peregrine Pickle. 2 Vols. (6d. each). Humphry (ilinker. W. H. MAXWELL. Author's Edition. Stories of Waterloo. The Bivouac: Stories of the Peninsular War. Captain Blake. 'Wild Sports of the West. 1 Captain MARRYAT. I Peter Simple. I The King’s Own. ' Newton Forster. Jacob Faithful. Frank Mildmay. Pacha of Many Tales, i Japhet. Midshipman Easy. 1 The Dog Fiend. The Phantom Ship. I Olla Podrida. The Poacher. Percival Keene. Monsieur Violet. Rattlin, the Reefer. Valerie. i The Pirate, and The , Three Cutters. i J. F. COOPER. The Waterwitch. I The Pathfinder. (L. 2.) I The Deerslayer. (L. i.) Last of Mohicans.( L. 3.) The Pilot. The Prairie. (L. 5.) The Spy. The Red Rover. Homeward Bound. Eve Effingham. The Two Admirals. Miles Wallingford. Afloat and Ashore. The Pioneers. (L. 4.) Wyandotte. Lionel Lincoln. The Bravo. The Sea Lions. The Headsman. Precaution. The Oak Openings. Heidenmauer. Mark’s Reef. Ned Myers. Satanstoe. The Borderers. Jack Tier. Mercedes. E.i to 5 are the Leather-Stocking Tales. GEORGE ROUTLEDGE &• SONS. fc6 NOVELS AT SIXPENCE, continued. Sir WALTER SCOTT. Guy Mannering. The Antiquary. Ivanhoe. The Fortunes of Nigel. Heart of Midlothian. Bride of Lammermoor. Wa%-erley. Rob Roy. Kenilworth. The Pirate. The Monastery. Old Mortality. Peveril of the Peak. Quentin Durward. St. Ronan’s Well. The Abbot. The Black Dwarf. Woodstock. Anne of Geierstein. The Betrothed. The Fair Maid ol Perth. Surgeon’s Daughter. The Talisman. Count Robert of Paris. Redgauntlet. Mrs. RADOLIFFE. Romance of the Forest. The Italian. Mysteries of Udolpho. 2 Parts f6(/. each). VARIOUS AUTHORS. Robinson Crusoe. Defoe. Colleen Bawn. Gerald Griffin. Vicar of Wakefield. Goldsmith. Sketch Book. Washington Irving. Tristram Shandy. Sterne. A Sentimental Journey. Sterne. English Opium Eater. De Quincey. Essays of Elia. Charles Lamb. Notre Dame. Victor Hugo. Gulliver's Travels. Swift. Last Essays of Elia. C. Lamb. The Shadowless Man. Baron Trenck. The Swiss Family Robinson. Rory O’More. Lover. The Wild Irish Girl. Lady Morgan. The Trials of Margaret Lyndsay. Professor Wilson. Two Years Before the Mast; or, A Sailor’s Life at Sea. Dana. Valentine Vox. i Vols. (fid, each). Frankenstein; or, The Modern Pro- metheus. Mrs. Shelley. The Scottish Chiefs. Jane Porter. 192 pages. Nightside of Nature. Mrs. Crowe.. ROUTLEDGE’S SIXPENNY SERIES. Under the above title, Messrs. George Routledge & Sons are about to produce a Series of the Cheapest Standard Books for Youth ever published in this or in any other country. Each book will contain from 64 to 80 large pages, in three columns, brevier type, with from 40 to 80 Illustrations, well printed by the best London Printers, and stitched in a durable paper cover. 1. ROBINSON CRUSOE. With 40 Illustrations by J. D. Watson. 80 pp. 2. THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. With 40 Illustrations. 3. SANDFORD AND MERTON. With 70 Illustrations. 4. GRIMM’S FAIRY TALES. With 70 Illustrations. 5. ANDERSEN'S FAIRY TALES. With 60 Illustrations. 6. THE BOY’S OWN NATURAL HISTORY. With 300 Illustrations. 7. .ffiSOP’S FABLES. With 100 Illustrations. 8. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS. With 40 Illustrations. GEORGE ROUTLEDGE &■ SONS. AMERICAN HUMOROUS BOOKS. Artemus Ward, his Book. Artemus Ward, his Travels. The Nasby Papers. Major Jack Downing. [each) Biglow Papers, ist & 2nd Series (fid. Orpheus C. Kerr. Hans Breitmann. Josh Billings. Sayings and Doings of Sam Slick. ist, 2nd, and 3rd series (fid. each). Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. Professor at the Breakfast Table. The Poet at the Breakfast Table. • > • •->,.1^ O. W. Holmes. Celebrated Jumping Frog. M.Twain. Luck of Roaring Camp. Bret Harte Innocents Abroad. Mark Twain. WIDE, WIDE WORLD SERIES. The Prince of the House of David. The Throne of David. The Pillar of Fire. The Wide, Wide World. Queechy. Uncle Tom’s Cabin. The Lamplighter. /THB LADIB8’ AND QBN'rLBM&J!rS LBTTKB, WRITBtt, opnMkining ' LctMrs on th* Bimplect M«tt«ni of Ufo. Tith AppUonUona for Situtiona, nod ■ 1 copious Appeudlz of F onus of AddrcM, c(e. Is. T33[B HOME BOOK 0)' DOMKSTIO KCONOMY. «•/ Amhh Bowkaii. Is. COMMON THINGS CV HVBBY DAY LIFE. By Aj«i« Bowma».. Is. LINOMARKS OF TLii? HISTORY OF BNQLAND. Bot. Jsvii [ ! In. 6d. I LANDMARKS OP THE HISTORY OF GBBKOB. With s Msp. Rot. I jAyt;,- '’BIIB. U. Oci. LANDJ . R.n AND TENANT CTHK LAW OF), INCLUDING THE FEW aOT. Wit'a t-i Appendis of Uiefol Forms, QloKssry of Lsw Ttroas, cvo. W. A..HotD»TroBfif!. Is. I; H; STORY OF FRANCE F} OM THE EARLIEST TIMES. Axelu B. Kdwsssc, Is. ' WILLS, EXECUTORS, AND ADMI YIITISTRATORS (THE LAW OF). With Xj'sefat Forme. W. A. Hopd>it.-.>bis. Is. RUNDELL’S DOMESTIC COOKERY. Unsbridgsd, with EUastrstiona ia. NOTES ON HEALTH; How to Presoinra or Begiun it W. T. Cole- xsw, IC.D. la. I COMMON OBJECTS OF THE MICROSCOPE: with 400 lOnatrationa [ by TolTnn.WeEt. B.-7r. J. Q. Wood. Is. , I THE NEW BANKRUPTCY ACT. W. A Holdswomth. Is. \ ONE TE-DUSAND HINTS FOR THE TABLE, inolading Winea la. j THE NLiY COUNTY COURT GUIDE. With Forms. W. A. Holds-, 1 WC**’;.. !»i GBOLO''T . OR THE HliiLION. 3y M. Plwbs, edited by Bov, J. G. WcvJ.. ’■ isijT’. :',AKE iJOfHi.'T. .. -la. INFAl^ . Faiilbi, la. • ■ | PRACT^VI^ HOUi-'KKL*’- 'C'G. Mr*. Pedlbi. Is. : { ' 1 A MANUAL OF WKATL:.<4i;OASTS. A. Stbimmeti. U ' ' ! THE COMMEROIAJj LETTER WRITER. P. L. Sjmmonds, Ijj, i HANDBOOK OF ENGLISH PROSE AND DRAMATIC I.TTBBA- i l.s, ^ FArU3G<-?> OP ENGLISH POETRY, ia. ; KEADYii- ’ r ' SPEECHES. Is. VBLOCr?" :S. iB. T2E :.iLD 7 A BY EDUCATION ACT. W. A. HoldswoStf. is. TABLES ■ ■ -..(SiTERSSr AND ANNUITIES, Is. THE GAY .i lEI %.QP GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. U. Bd, THE PAWN; «,fe. . . GUIDE. . Is, 6d. MAsTEA—nii By W. A Holdbwokth. Is. I Loi<don: G!S0. 6 SONS, Tho Bioadway, Lnd^tA |