The University Library Leeds Medical and Dental LibraryMANUAL THE COLLEGE OE SURGEONS.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2151995xMANUAL FOE THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS LONDON, DUBLIN, AND EDINBURGH: INTENDED JOE THE USE OF CANDIDATES FOR EXAMINATION AND PRACTITIONERS, BT JOHN STEGGALL, M.D. — c LICENTIATE OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, LONDON, MEMBEK OF THE SOYAL COLLEGE OF SWBGEONS, ETC. SECOND EDITION. LONDON: JOHN CHUKCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO. MDCCCLIH.C anil J. Adiird, Frimtrt, BnrtlioloiBtir Clou.PEEEACE. A Second Edition of this work having been called for, the Author has endeavoured to make it more complete than its predecessor by availing himself of the most recent improvements in the science of Anatomy, Physio- logy, and Surgery. It is earnestly requested that no student should imagine that this work is intended to be a substitute for the numerous comprehensive works on such subjects, but he should resort to it as a collection of notes, in which simplicity and clearness of description have been employed to render some difficult points more easily un- derstood. Numerous complaints were made that, in the former Edition, a sufficient Index was wanting. In the present one, that omision has been rectified in a manner which the Author trusts will give additional interest to the work. • The Author of the present Edition has much pleasure inPREFACE. recording his thanks to Mr. Hilles for his valuable assist- ance in the publication of the First Edition, and hopes that he may live long to enjoy those prosperous circum- stances which have enabled him to retire from the arduous duties of a professional life.TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE 203 200 211 213 The Bones, Ligaments, and Articalatious . 1 Muscles of tlie Body . . . . . 108 Brain and Nervous System . . . 138 %e . , ; . . . Ear . Nose • . . . . Tongue .... Skin • ■ . . . Mouth, Pharynx, and (Esophagus . . .215 Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi . . . . 220 Thoracic Viscera . . . , .226 ^^^^^ • ■ • . . . 230 Abdomen . . 238 Intestines . Abdominal Aorta Pelvic Viscera and Genital Organs . . . 262 Regional and Surgical Anatomy . . .277 Head, Scalp, &c. . , ^''^ ■ 282 Superior Extremities . Perineum . . . " . " ". 375 244 258viii TABLE or CONTENTS. PAGE Inferior Extremities . 379 Gluteal Region . . 391 Popliteal Region .394 Physiology, Notes on . 411 Blood . 417,435 Urine . 419 Tissues, Structure of . 421 Circulation of Blood . 436 Respii-ation . 438 Surgery . 445 Iniiammation . 446 Ulcers . 454 Injuries of Head . 464 Eyelids, Diseases of . 479 Eye, Diseases of . 482 Eistula Lacrymalis . 496 Nose, Diseases of . 498 Tongue, Diseases of . 501 Laryngotomy . 504 Mamma, Diseases of . 506 Thorax, Injuries of . . 508 Abdomen, Wounds of . 512 Hernia . 518 „ Oblique . 516 „ Congenital . 535 Infantile . . 586 „ Direct Inguinal . 537 „ Ecmoral . 539 „ Umbilical . 652 „ Yentral . 553 Gonorrhosa . 365TABLE OF CONTENTS. ix PAGE Stricture of Urethra . . • -568 Syphilis . . • • . . 577 Prostate, Diseases of . • • .583 Testis „ . • • . . 586 Hydrocele . . • • .589 Rectum, Diseases of . . • • • 595 Fractures ..... 601 Bones, Diseases of . . ... 625 Joints „ .... 634 Dislocations . . . • • 640 Aneurism . . . . • 658 „ Treatment of . . . . 666 Varicose Veins . . . . .676 Tumours . . . . . . 679 „ Epidermoid .... 680 „ Dermoid . . . . . ib. „ of the Cellular Membrane . . . 68'1 „ Muscular . . . . . 682 „ of the Tendons . . . . ib. Periosteal . . . . 683 „ Osseous . . . . ib. Glandular . . . . . 684 „ of Secretmg Glands . . .686 „ of the Breast . . . . ib. „ „ Salivary Glands •. . .688 „ „ Thyroid Gland . . . . ib. „ „ Testis . . . .689 „ „ Mucous Glands . . . . ib. „ „ Tongue . . . . ib. „ Tonsils . . . . ib. Scirrhus of the Cardiac Orifice of the Stomach . , .690TABLE OF CONTENTS. X PAGE ocirrnus or the Pyloric Orifice . 690 lumours oi the Uterus ib. -cuugoia iumour ot the Bladder . 691 Cancer of the Penis . ib. Tumours of Membranous Textures . ib. Fibroiis Tumour of the Antrum . 692 -bungoid iumour oi the Antrum . ib. ), „ Uterus ib. Tumours of Synovial Membrane . 693 Encysted Tumours ib. Tumour of the Ovarium . 694 Un Dcrorula ib. Un Amputation . 697 Haemorrhage . 710 On Urinary Calculi and Lithotomy : 712 Bums and Scalds . 722 On Tetanus . 725 On the Malignant Diseases . 727 Erysipelas . 735 LSDEX .... . 739PART I. ANATOMY.1 MANUAL FOR THE COLLEGE OF SUEGEONS. ANATOMY. THE BONES, LIGAMENTS, AND ARTICULATIONS, OR PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The bones, ligaments, and articulations constitute the natural skeleton; the bones alone, the artificial skeleton. The Bones are the framework of the body, to which the other structures are attached, or in which they are con- tained ; and contribute largely to the formation of the articulations. They are divided into long, flat, and ir- regular. The long bones are situated in the extremities, as in the thigh and leg, the arm and forearm, where great strength and considerable motion are required ; they are expanded at each extremity for the formation of the joints,—are marked with eminences and depressions for the attach- ment of muscles and ligaments,—and are hollow in the interior for the medullary canal. Their structure is com- pact in the centre, spongy at the extremities. The flat bones are placed so as to form cavities, as in the head and pelvis; they present two surfaces, an internal concave, and an external convex; they are thicker at the edges than in the centre ; their structure consists of two compact laminae enclosing an intermediate cellular structure, termed the diploe. The irregular bones are situated where great strength and frequent motions are required, but the motion is of a compound nature, as in the spirie, the tarsus, carpus, ^c.;2 ANATOMY. they are irregular in shape, and composed of spongy, covered by a thin layer of compact, tissue. All bones cannot be comprised in these divisions, as, for example, the ribs: they resemble long bones in their length, and being expanded at their extremities; and flat bones, in forming the parietes of a cavity, and presenting a concave and convex surface ; and are like irregular bones in their structure. Some divide the bones into long, short, flat, and mixed. The number of bones in the human body is variable, owing to the irregular development of small bones in the tendons where these are exposed to friction, such as the sesamoid bones, and owing to the existence of ossa Wor- miana or triquetra in the cranium; they also differ at the different periods of life; their number in the adult is estimated at 244; but if we omit sesamoid bones, and subdivisions of bones, as of the sternum, coccyx, and os hyoides, their number will be only 197, viz., spine with sacrum and coccyx 26, head and face 22, ribs and sternum 25, upper extremities 64, and lower extremities 60. The production and growth of bone have occupied the attention of many physiologists, and even now are not uniformly agreed upon. Bone is supposed to be first prep£o:ed by the deposit of a gelatinous substance, which is penetrated by arteries, veins, and absorbents. This is gradually converted into cartilage, which presents a red appearance, from being permeated by numerous vessels carrying red blood. By degrees these vessels deposit osseous particles, Avhich ex- tend from a point in a radiating manner in the flat, and in a longitudinal direction in the long bones, the red colour disappeai-ing with the increase of bony deposit; the spots from which the bony matter proceeds are called points of ossification. In the irregular bones, the points of ossification are numerous, corresponding with the several prominent portions of it: one, larger than another, is generally named the body. In the flat bones, the ossific points are likewise variable; thus in each parietal bone, there is only one; in the occipital, several. In the long bones there are three parts of distinct formation, the shaft and the extremities. The shaft is first deposited in the form of a ring of bone, whUst the extremities are stillGROTVTH OF BONE. 3 cartilaginous ; in time the latter are incrusted with a bony deposit. Before osseous union with the shaft, they are named the epiphyses; after union, the expanded extremi- ties or eminences are named apophyses or processes. As a bone increases in thickness and hardness, its par- ticles are not only elongated and new ones deposited, but fresh strata are formed varying in direction with the nature of the bone. In the cylindrical bones, they are deposited within the circumference, and thus tend to the diminution of the internal space. The fibres are also connected together by thin transverse plates, which give bone on minute inspection a cellular appearance, which, however, in some instances, is more of a distinct laminated cha- racter. {Fide Physiology.) The circular deposits do not reach the centre of the long bones, but leave a cavity which contains the marrow, differing in quantity and quality at different ages, inter- sected however by some fibres which stretch across, and produce a latticed-work appearance. In the extremities these fibres are very numerous, and give them quite a cellular structure, which is named cancellous, and which is also observed to be the structure which forms the bulk of the irregular bones. The cancelli are lined with a delicate membrane, which has been named the membrana medidlaris. The marrow, like fat, is contained in distinct cells, which do not communicate. Minute arteries can be traced into them. The marrow diff'ers with age: in the child, it is thin and sanguineous, in the adult more oily and consistent; and in old age, is again much thinner. The bones are covered with a peculiar membrane, named periosteum, the surfaces of which correspond with the parts in relation with it. A similar membrane placed upon cartilages is called perichondrium. It is of use in serving as a point of attachment of muscles, which also cause depressions and eminences in the bone, according to the mode and nature of their attachment. The periosteum is the direct medium, through which the bone (at least Its outer part) is supported both with nourishment and vitality; from it the minute arteries proceed to enter the internal parts. If a part of the shaft of a long bone dies, named the4 ANATOMY. sequestrum, it is found to be incased by a new bony sub- stance, supposed to be deposited by the periosteum. If the periosteum be removed, and part of the surface of the bone be destroyed, the vessels of the internal parts have the power of throwing out gelatinous fluid which becomes cartilage and then bone, and may be entirely incased in the dead substance. Thus it appears that the vessels, either of the periosteum, the bone itself, or medullary membrane, have each the power of secreting a nidus for bony deposits. The mode of reunion of bone is the following: during the first week or more, blood is extravasated, and appears to produce cohesion of the surrounding parts; in about ten days the redness disappears, the colouring matter of the blood is absorbed, and coagulated lymph remains; and at the same time the periosteum is found soft but thickened, and increased in vascularity, and the ends of the bones are inflamed, softened, and vascular, with their edges rounded off. This lymph becomes almost of a cartilaginous consistence, and is subsequently replaced by osseous matter on its surface. Similar changes take place internally in the fluid thrown out by the medullary membrane. In the succeeding stages, the ossific matter acquires increased thickness, becomes more firm, and is found gradually to unite the entire ends of the bones ; and the surrounding cellular substance appears to form a new periosteum. In the last stage of restoration the superabundant ossific matter or callus is absorbed, the medullary canal is re- stored to its former state, and the irregularities on the bone are removed. Bones, like all other structures in the body, are always undergoing some renewal and absorption, which is shown by feeding an animal upon madder, and watching the changes produced in bone by it. In old persons the cavity in the cylindrical bones becomes gradu- ally larger, and the walls proportionally more compact. The formation of the flat bones of the cranium is some- what different fi-om that of the others. They are produced by a deposit of ossific matter between membranes, gra- dually extending from a central point to the circumference. The radiating fibres are connected together by transverse threads, which produce a spider-web appearance, and the intervals between the fibres are the passages for the vessels;5 ARTICULATIONS. when perfectly formed by successive layers of ossific matter, these boues exhibit an indurated external and internal table, with a cancellous structure between them, named the diploe. . Many of the smaller bones of the face are formed in a similar manner to those of the cranium. The clavicle diifers from the rest of the bones of the body in being quite bony from a very early period, not having visibly undergone the usual changes from gelatine into cartilage, and from this into bone. The bones are supplied with distinct arteries, veins, and absorbents, and probably nerves ; and according to the supply of blood from the arteries, and the character of the surrounding parts, so will be the tendency to reunion in case of fracture. The Ligaments are strong fibrous non-elastic structures connecting the bones, and principally situated about the articulations; their fibres run in different directions, leaving occasionally intervals between them for the passage of blood-vessels; they present a tolerably smooth and glistening appearance ; are destitute of red vessels ; nerves can be only infei'red to exist in them from their being painful in disease ; they are irregular in shape, size, and length, and are named from their situation, shape, direc- tion, attachments, or use. The Articulations are composed of bones, ligaments, cartilage, and synovial membrane, where they enjoy any extent of motion, as in the hip and knee; but when im- movable, are composed merely of bones and ligaments. The bones, where they enter into the formation of the moveable articulations are expanded and covered over by a structure called cartilage. This forms a most important part in the mechanism of the joints : one surface of it is intimately adherent to the bone, which it covers, without having any intimate vascular connection ; the other surface is free, smooth, and polished, and is covered by synovial membrane. It is usually described now as consisting of a matrix, with numerous cartilage cells and granules con- tained within it; its chief property is that of elasticity, by which it is enabled to prevent the effects of shocks, and to give free motion to the joints : neither vessels nor nerves can be traced into it, excepting at very early periods of life.6 ANATOMY. when it has been stated to have been injected; their presence, however, is inferred from the effects of disease. Cartilage is thickest in the centre, when it covers a con- vexity,—in the circumference, when it lines a concavity. All the parts comprising the moveable articulations are' lined by synovial membrane. This is an exceedingly thin, delicate membrane, belonging to the class of serous mem- branes ; it presents a smooth polished appearance, is transparent, destitute of red vessels and nerves, at least in a healthy state, forms a shut sac, secretes a glairy, trans- parent fluid, termed synovia, which lubricates the interior of the joint, and thus obviates the effects of friction; it cannot be demonstrated satisfactorily where it covers the cartilages, but is distinctly visible in other situations ; it is frequently confounded with the capsular ligament. CLASSIFICATION OF ARTICULATIONS. The Articulations may be divided into complete and nox-complete. Planiform. Where the surfaces in contact are plane, or nearly so, and possess the least motion. 'Angular—perfect \i\\ert the mo- tions are confined to flexion and extension, as in the elbow. Imperfect where they also allow of slight lateral motion, as in the knee and ankle. GiNGLYMus. { Lateral.—AVhere the surfaces are convex and concave, and allow of rotatorj' motion, as in the articulations between the radius and ulna, and the odontoid process of the den- tata and atlas. En-Arthrosis. .Where the bones present a hall and cup, or deep excavation, and where they enjoy every motion, that is, flexion, extension, adduc- tion, abduction, rotation, and cir- cumduction, as in the hip. Where the bones present a ball and socket, or superficial excava- tion, and either enjoy every mo- tion, as in the shoulder, or where its motions are more confined, as in the teniporo-maxillary articula- tion. 60 • S S O T3 O e^H o cn •i-i §-1 S n fl fl o -3 fl a a '■a o fl S Arthrosis. Si oARTICULATIONS. o V a a c . « to E.S it o S ■;= o = CJ o Harmonia. GOMPHOSIS, Schindylesis. Suture. Denticulated, where the bones pre- sent a serrated appearance, and are interlocked with one another, as ia the sagittal and coronal sutures. Squamous, where they overlap, as in the squamous suture of the temporal bone. Where the bones present slightly rough substances, and are juxta- posed, as in the articulations of the superior maxillary bones. Where one bone is implanted into another, as a nail is into wood. The teeth in the alveoli are the only examples of this. Where one plate of bone is received into a groove or fissure in another, or between two other bones, as the vomer receives the azygos process of the sphenoid bone, or is received between the two su- perior maxillary bones. The above four possess no motion. Symphysis. Where the bones are united by cartilage, or fibro- cartilage, little motion, if any, being enjoyed, as in the sym- physis pubis, the sacro-iliac symphysis, the junction of the bodies of the vertebra;. Synchondrosis. Where the same connection exists, but more motion is enjoyed, as between the ribs and costal cartilages. The connection between the scapula and trunk, and that of the os-hyoides, is called syssarcosis, but cannot be classed amongst articulations. The motions enjoyed by articulations are, flexion, ex- tension, adduction, abduction, rotation, and circumduction. The Skeleton is divided into the head, trunk, loioer and upper extremities. The Trunk is divided into the Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis. The Spine is a pyramidal column, situated at the pos- terior part of the trunk, extending from the head to the pelvis ; it serves the important offices of supporting the head, thorax, and upper extremities superiorly, resting j3 ^ O C3 Amphiarthrosis8 ANATOMY, inferiorly on the pelvis, and transmitting their weight to the lower extremities; it also gives attachment to nume- rous muscles and ligaments, and affords lodgment to the spinal marrow and membranes, an important part of the nervous system; in its structure it combines the almost incompatible properties of great strength, finmiess, elas- ticity, and mobility; into its formation we have entering bones, ligaments, elastic structure, blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents. BONES OF THE SPINE. The bones of the spine are named vertebrae, and are called true, to distinguish them from the false vertebrae or bones which, separate in early life, afterwards unite to form the sacrum. They consist of seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar, and belong to the class of irregular bones. The vertebrae, taken generally, consist of a body and seven processes, and present four notches and a foramen, with the exception of the atlas, wliich requires separate consideration. The body forms the greatest portion of the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae ; it has a rough articulating surface above and below; is anteriorly convex in the transverse direc- tion ; slightly concave perpendicularly, in consequence of the edges projecting to give attachments to ligaments. Posteriorly, the body is flattened, rather concave, and has numerous foramina in it for the entrance of the principal vessels. The processes are seven, and are connected with the posterior margin of the body by bony plates, named the crura or pedicles, above and beneath which is a notch completing the intervertebral foramina for the passage of the nerves, when the bones are articulated together. The lateral processes are named transverse, and project horizontally, in the dorsal region marked by an articidat- ing surface for the tubercles of the ribs; adjoining these are the four articular or oblique processes, two superior, and two inferior, which are for the articulation of the vertebrae together. Posteriorlj^ is the spinous process, projecting backwards in the mesial line, connected with the rest of the bone by quadrangular portions of bone.BONES OF THE SPINE. 9 named lamince or plates, which by their edges give attach- ment to the ligamenta subflava. The notches, which, by juxta-position of vertebrae, form the intervertebral foramina, are anterior to the articulating processes in all the vertebrae, except the atlas and upper surface of the second cervical vertebrse. The body and processes, united by the pedicles, form the bony walls of the vertebral or spinal canal. The cervical vertebrce are distinguished by the following particulars: The hody is longest in the transverse direction. Its upper surface is broader than the lower, and is concave from side to side. Its lower surface is convex. It is deeper anteriorly than posteriorly. The transverse processes arise by two roots, the anterior one from the body; they are bifurcated at their extremities, directed slightly forward, and near the base have a foramen for the passage of the vertebral artery and vein. The articulating processes superiorly look upwards and backwards the lower ones downwards and forwards. The plates are long and narrow. The sjnnous processes are short, project backwards at an angle of about 45 deg., and are bifurcated. The spinal canal is large and triangular. The particular cervical vertebrae, which require separate notice, are the atlas, the axis or vertebra dentata, and the seventh. The atlas is distinguished by the following peculiarities: It has no body, but is like a ring of bone. It presents transverse and articulating processes, which divide it into an anterior and posterior half-arch. The anterior half-arch, smaller, and convex anteriorly, presents a tubercle, with two lateral depressions for the attachments of the loneus colli of each side. On its posterior surface it presents an articulating surface for the odontoid process of the second vertebrae; and further back, on each side, a tubercle for the attachment of the transverse ligament. Its superior and inferior edges give attachments to ligaments. The transverse processes are on the same line as the articular, and project considerably outwards, and have the foramen for the vertebral artery. The superior articulating processes are large and concave for the condyles of the occipital bone, directed upwards and inwards, and converging anteriorly. The inferior articulating processes are circular and plane, and arc airected downwards and inwards. 1§10 ANATOMY. Behind these the intervertebral notches are seen, the upper one deep for the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve; the lower one deep for the exit of the first cervical nerve. The plates are rounded, and unite posteriorly without forming a spinous process. The canal in the dry bone is very large, but in the recent state is divided into two by the transverse ligament. The second vertebra, named also dentata or axis, is distinguished as follows: The body is longer perpendicularly, in consequence of being sur- mounted by the odontoid process, which is articulated anteriorly with the atlas, and posteriorly with the transverse ligament. This process terminates in an angular summit, to the lateral sm-face of which the moderator or check ligaments are attached. On the anterior surface of the body of this vertebra are two depressions, for the insertion of the longi colli. The transverse processes are short and not bifurcated. The superior articulating processes are circular. The inferior articulating processes are oval, and directed downwards, forwards, and a little outwards. The laminae are short and strong. The spinous process is short but broad, is bifurcated, and has a deep groove on its under surface. The upper notch is behind the articular process, whilst the inferior notch is in front of it. The seventh cervical vertebra is thus distinguished: It is of a large size. The spinous process is not bifurcated, but is long and projecting; hence this is named vertebra prominens. It has a foramen in the transverse process, smaller than in the rest. Its general character approaches to that of the dorsal vertebraj. The dorsal vertebrce are known by the following general characters: The bodies are heart-shaped, with the antero-posterior axis longest, deeper posteriorly than anteriorly, to produce the concavity of the spine towards the thorax, and are marked, laterally near their crura, by articular surfaces for the heads of the ribs. The transverse processes are long, and directed upwards and back- wards, and have, excepting the eleventh and twelfth, an articulating surface for the tubercles of the ribs. The articulating processes are perpendicular, the upper looking backwards and slightly outwards, the lower ones forwards and inwards. The laminai are broad, deep, and flat. The spinous processes are long, triangular, and grooved inferiorly to rest close upon those below them: they incline more perpendi- cularly, proceeding downwards as far as the fifth or sixth, and tlien begin again to become more horizontal.11 DORSAL VERTEBRjE. The spinal canal is nearly circular, and rather smaller than in the cervical and lumbar regions. The dorsal vertebrae, which are most distinguished from the rest, are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first has the body longest transversely, and has an entire articulating surface on each side for the head of the first rib, and a half surface for the head of the second. Its spinous process is very long, and projects almost horizontally backwards. The tenth, eleventh, and twelfth vertebra;, have frequently a single articulating surface on each side of the body for the head of a rib; and no surface on the transverse process for the reception of the tubercle. The tenth sometimes partakes of the character of the vertebras just above it. The transverse processes are short. The twelfth vertebra may be always distinguished by the inferior articulating processes, which have a direction corresponding with the lumbar, viz. forwards and outwards. The general distinctive characters of the lumbar vertebrae are these: The body has a great transverse extent. Its vertical height is greatest anteriorly. The transverse processes are long and slender, directed outwards, the third and fourth being the longest. The superior articulating processes are concave, wide apart, looking backwards and inwards; the lower ones convex, directed forwards and outwards. The laminfe are short and thick, somewhat overlapping each other. The spinous process is horizontal, broad, and flat. The spinal canal is triangular, as in the cervical region. The last lumbar vertebra is thus distinguished : The body is much deeper anteriorly than posteriorly, so as to rest upon the incUned plane of the sacrum. ■The transverse processes are short and thick. The inferior articulating processes are shghtly convex, looking forwards and outwards. The spinous process is short and rounded. The structure of the bodies of the vertebrae is principally- spongy, with a thin layer of compact osseous tissue, externally: they are hence very liable to caries, producing Pott's disease of the spine. The processes are composed chiefly of compact tissue. They are developed in general from three ossific centres, one for the body and two for the processes ; and afterwards five other parts are superadded, named epiphyses; two forANATOMY. 12 the body, one at its upper and one on its under surface, one for each transverse process, and one for the spinous process. The vertebrae are perfectly ossified, about 25 years of age. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae are connected together by powerful liga- ments, and the inter-vertebral substance. The connection between the two superior cervical vertebrae and the head, requires separate consideration. Articulation of the Occipital Bone, with the atlas and axis. A broad ligament passes from the anterior edge of the foramen magnum, downwards and backwards in the spinal canal, over the moderator and transverse ligaments, is inserted into the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra dentata, and is continuous with the ligamentum commune postering. It may be named occipito-axoidean ligament, and has been called apparatus ligamentosus colli. When this is raised we see the transverse and moderator ligaments. The moderator, odontoid, or checfc ligament of each side, arises from near the top of the odontoid process, passes outwards and a little upwards to be inserted into the edge of the foramen magnum, near the anterior extremity of the condyles of the occipital bone. They connect this bone with the head, and moderate the rotatory motion of the latter. The transverse ligament passes from the angular emi- nence on the inner edge of the atlas, internal to the superior articulating process, on one side, to a corres- ponding part of the opposite side. From its centre it generally sends a prolongation upwards to the edge of the foramen magnum, and one downwards to the second vertebra, thus assuming a crucial appearance, and then forming the crucial ligament: it is always broadest in the centre, and in structure approaches to fibro-cartilage. The atlas is connected with the occiput also by broad ligaments, anteriorly and posteriorly, which arc named occipito-atlantoidean ligaments. They proceed from the upper edge of the atlas, and are inserted into the corre- sponding edges of the foramen magnum. The posterior ligament is perforated by the vertebral ai-tery and sub-13 LIGAMENTS OP THE SPINE. occipital nerve. Synovial capsules surround the articulation of the occiput with the atlas, and of the atlas with the axis. The odontoid process has one both upon its anterior and posterior surface. The articulation between the head and atlas is of the class arthrosis, that between the atlas and axis, lateral ginglymus. Disease and accident in these articulations often cause sudden death, as in rupture of the check ligaments, in suspension of the body by the head, the escape of the odontoid process from the transverse ligament, or fracture of it, in executions, by which the spinal marrow becomes suddenly compressed. The general ligaments of the spine are these : Anterior common ligament. Posterior „ „ Liffameiita subflava. Inter-transverse. „ spinous. Supra spinous. Capsular. The anterior common ligament proceeds from the second cervical vertebra, as far as the sacrum, stretching from vertebra to vertebra, attached to the edges of the vertebrse and inter-vertebral substance: when cleaned it presents a pearly-white glistening appearance. It consists of three sets of fibres : first set, superficial, stretch between three or four vertebrae. The second set, middle, pass from one vertebra to a third. The third set, deep, stretch from one vertebra to the next. This ligament is broader as it descends, and is thickest in the dorsal region. It is perforated by a number of vessels. The posterior common ligament is seen in the spinal canal, behind the bodies of the vertebrae. It appears to arise from the second cervical vertebra, and is lost at the upper part of the sacrum. In its course, it is firmly attached to the edges of the vertebrie and inter-vertcbral substance, where it is expanded for preventing the sub- stance, here almost fluid, from pressing upon the spinal chord : opposite the bodies of the vertebra;, the ligament IS contracted, presenting on each side a lunated margin and does not touch the bone, being separated by numerous vessels. In structure it is dense, firm, and glistening.ANATOMY. 14 The intervertebral substance, fibro-cartilaginous ex- ternally, is found between all the vertebrae, and between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum, but not between the atlas and axis. It is thin in the cervical region, thicker in the dorsal, thickest in the lumbar, very firmly attached to the various vertebrae. Its vertical thickness is greater anteriorly, in the cervical and lumbar portions, so as to produce the anterior convexity of those parts, but deeper posteriorly in the dorsal. It consists of cuxular, concen- tric, and decussating fibres, is dense in the circumference, but in the centre and near the vertebral canal is pulpy and semifiuid, and is supposed to form a fluid pivot, around which the motions of the vertebrae are performed ; this substance is very elastic, and preserves the spine from the effects of shocks. In the upright posture it is gradually compressed, hence a person is found to be perceptibly taller after long rest than after the fatigues of a day. Small ligaments, named crucial, are described by some authors as crossing and covering this, anteriorly passing from one vertebra to another. They are not worth the name of separate ligaments. The ligamenta subjlava are situated posteriorly between the laminae of the vertebrae, excepting between the first and second cervical: they are also found between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. They extend from the inferior edge of the lamina of the vertebra above, to the edge of the one below; they do not quite meet in the mesial line ; but leave a triangular interval, filled up with reddish cellular tissue. They have a yellow colour, are dense in structure, firm and elastic, resembUng the yellow tissue of the middle coat of the arteries. The other ligaments of the spine are less important, and are chiefly seen in the dorsal and lumbar region, muscles supplying their place in the neck. The intei'-spinous and supra-sjnnous ligaments are suf- ficiently explained by their names. The inter-transverse ligaments are very indistinct, and are not described by some anatomists. Synovial capsules surround the articulations between the articulating pro- cesses of the vertebrae. These articulations are called planiform. Viewing the spine generally on its anterior, posterior,15 MUSCLES ATTACHED TO THE SPINE. and lateral aspects, the following particulars may be noticed, separating however the atlas from consideration. Anteriorly, it presents on a cursory view a pyramidal form, but if examined more closely it appears to consist of three pyramids : The first extending from the second to the seventh cervical vertebra. The second is inverted and extends from the seventh cervical to the fourth or fifth dorsal. The third extends from the fourth or fifth dorsal to the last lumbar vertebra or the sacrum. In this aspect the spine is not quite straight, being generally a little inclined to the right side, in consequence of the more frequent use of the right arm. Posteriorly, the spine presents the spinous processes, almost horizontal in the cervical and lumbar regions, and overlapping each other almost perpendicularly in the dorsal region : on each side of these there is a deep groove, which decreases in breadth but increases in depth, from above downwards, to give lodgment to the various muscles. The spine, viewed laterally, presents an undulating line, convex in the cervical and lumbar portions, concave in the dorsal; along it we see the intervertebral foramina, anterior to the transverse processes in the back and loins, and between them in the cervical region. The motions of the spine are fiexion, extension, lateral motion, slight circumduction, and rotatio7i. The spine of the fcetus presents a single inverted pyramid, and possesses but one curve, which is concave forwards : the spine of very old persons is curved like that of the fcetus, but the elastic structures have lost much of their elasticity, and are often converted into bone. The muscles attached to the spine are symmetrical, and consist of anterior and posterior. Those attached ante- riorly, and in part laterally, are the following :— Rectus capitis antictcs major. I) ,) minor. „ lateralis. Longus colli. Scalenus anticus, ,, medius. 1) jwsticus. Diaphragma. Quadratus lumhorum.16 ANATOMY. Psoas magnus, „ parvus. Obliquus internus, 1 , ^, Transversails, f "^^°^ff'^ "'^ medium of fascia. The muscles attached posteriorly are Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Rhomboideus major. ,1 minor. Levator anguli scapula. Serratus posticus, superior, n „ inferior. Splenius. Complexus. Sacro lumbalis. Cervicalis descendens. Trachelo-mastoideus. Longissimus dorsi. Transversalis colli. Spinalis dorsi. Semi-spinalis dorsi. „ colli. Rectus capitis jjosticus, major. )i „ minor. Obliquus capitis, superior. „ „ inferior. Multifdus SpincB. Interspinales. Inter-transversales. Levatores costarum. Rotatores Spines. THE THORAX. The Thorax is a large conical cavity, for the lodgment of the heart, lungs, and large blood-vessels, and is composed of bones, cartilages, and ligaments : its walls are formed, posteriorly, by the dorso-thoracic vertebrse, and the ribs, as far outwards as their angles, lateralhj by the bodies of the ribs, and, anteriorly, by the anterior extremities of the ribs, the sternum and costal cartilaees. THE BONES OF THE THORAX. The Bones which enter into the formation of the thorax are the dorsal vertebrce, the ribs, and tlie sternum. The Ribs consist of twenty-four irregularly-shaped bones, twelve on each side, extending from the vertebrae poste- riorly to within a short distance of the sternum anteriorly.17 THE ETBS. varying in length from above downwards, increasing from the first to the eighth, and then decreasing; they diminish in breadth, progressively from the first to the last, although not regularly so. They are divided into seven superior true, and five inferior false ribs, or, more properly, into sternal and asternal. The two lower ribs have no con- nection with the rest by cartilage, but lie loose between the abdominal muscles, and are hence termed the floating ribs. The ribs are expanded at their extremities, and are twisted at different parts in such a way as not to rest evenly on a horizontal plane. They consist of a head, neck, tubercle, body, and an anterior extremity. The Eead of a rib, situated at the vertebral extremity, presents an angular eminence, divided by a horizontal ridge into two articular surfaces (of which the superior is the smaller), for articulation with two dorsal vertebrae, the ridge itself being received into the interval between them, and here firmly connected by fibro- cartilage with the intervertebral substance. The Neck of the rib extends from the head to the tubercle ; it is round, of considerable length, and is directed downwards, backwards, and outwards : it gives attachment to the middle and inferior costo-transverse ligaments, and occupies, when in situ, the interval between the bodies, and the extremities of the transverse processes, of the vertebrae. The Tubercle is a rounded eminence, situated on the posterior surface of the rib, near its inferior edge; it is divided into an internal articular, and an external non- articular portion; the former smooth and convex, arti- culates with the summit of the transverse process of the vertebra beneath ; the latter is rougli, for the attachment of tlie posterior costo-transverse ligament. The Body of the rib commences at its tubercle, and terminates at the anterior extremity. Its outpr surface is convex, and is directed a httle upwards ; on it we per- ceive, as we pass outwards from the tubercle, a rough surface, of variable length in different ribs, iiicreasing from the first to the ninth, and then diminishing, for the insertion of the longissimus dorsi muscle; then the angle, forming a remarkable protuberance posteriorly, and pre-18 ANATOMY. senting a sharp ridge, directed obliquely downwards and outwards for the insertion of the sacro-lumbalis muscle; the angle is wanting in the first and twelfth ribs, and but badly marked in the second and eleventh; the mner surface of the rib is concave, directed downwards and inwards; the uppe?' edge is rounded off, is directed a Uttle inwards, and gives insertion to the intercostal muscles; its inferior edge, turned outwards, is sharp and grooved internally for the intercostal artery, and gives origin to the intercostal muscles; its anterior extremity is hollowed out for the recep- tion of the costal cartilage. The first, second, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, present peculiarities which must be considered. The/?-s^ rib is much shorter than any of the rest; it is broad, thin, and flat, placed nearly horizontally, and is regularly curved, so as to form nearly a semi-circle, and to allow its extremities to rest, at the same time, on a horizontal plane; its head is not divided into two articular surfaces, but articulates with a whole surface on the body of the first vertebra ; the neck is of considerable length ; i't wants the angle; its surfaces are du-ected upwards and downwards, the superior of which presents two depressions corresponding to the subclavian artery and vein, separated by a ridge into which is implanted the scalenus anticus muscle: its upper, or rather inner edge, does not give attachment to the intercostal muscles. The second rib somewhat resembles the first; it is, how- ever, longer, and is intermediate in pecuharities between the first and the succeeding ribs. The eleventh and twelfth, called also the floating ribs, are short and thin ; the head presents a whole articulating surface for the body of the corresponding vertebra ; they want the tubercles, as they do not articulate with the transverse processes; the angle is badly marked in the eleventh, completely deficient in the twelfth ; their anterior extremities, thin and pointed, are in general tipped with cartilage. The lower edge of the last rib gives attachment to some of the abdominal muscles, but not to the inter- costals. The tenth rib occasionally resembles the eleventh and twelfth, in being articulated with but one vertebra, and not articulating with the transverse process. The ribs are developed and ossified early in foetal hfe, inSTEENUM. 19 nearly their -whole extent, and have two epiphyses, one for the head, and the other for the tubercle; these are ossified at about 20 years of age. The Sternum is a symmetrical bone, situated in the anterior part of the thorax; its wpper extremity is on a plane posterior to the lower; it is marked with four transverse lines, pointing out its original division into five pieces; in it we occasionally perceive a small foramen, the use of which is unknown : the posterior surface of the sternum is smooth and concave, and forms the anterior boundary of the anterior mediastinum ; the superior ex- tremity of the sternum is thick, and excavated transversely, especially on its posterior surface, for accommodating the trachea, and the interclavicular ligament, and presents laterally two cartilaginous surfaces, for the sternal ex- tremity of the clavicle; the inferior extremity is the narrowest part of the sternum, and has attached to it a cartilaginous body, exceedingly irregular in size, direction, and shape, termed the xyphoid or ensiform cartilage, which, gives attachment to the linea alba, and the costo-xiphoid ligament; it is generally bony in the old subject. The lateral edges of the sternum are thick, and possess seven concave articulating surfaces on each side, for the recep- tion of the cartilages of the true ribs ; they are separated by a considerable interval above, but inferiorly approach one another, so that the sixth and seventh are sometimes not more than a line asunder; the superior of these is circular, and has its cartilage continuous with that of the first rib. The sternum in the adult is formed of two pieces, the superior of which, named manubrium, is short, broad, and triangular, the base turned upwards, the apex downwards; it is marked laterally with the excavation for the first rib, and a half one for the second, and is connected to the inferior piece by a cartilaginous structure, allowing of a slight degree of motion, excepting in the old subject, in which it is most frequently ossified. The inferior piece, formerly named (jladiolus, is long and narrow, tapering towards each extremity, and presents on each side the corresponding half articular surface for the second rib, and five whole ones for the inferior five true ribs ; the last of these is sometimes completed by the xiphoid cartilage.20 ANATOMY. At birth, the sternum usually consists of five pieces of bone, which are united by cartilage until puberty, when bony union commences between the four lower' pieces. The upper portion is united to the rest by cartilage for many years, but in old age is united by bone. The ensiform cartilage begins to be ossified after puberty; but a part may remain cartilaginous even in old age. The Costal Cartilages complete the thorax anteriorly; they are twelve in number on each side; of these the seven superior only are directly connected with the sternum, the three succeeding are connected with the cartilage of the last true rib, and with one another, whilst the last two are suspended in the abdominal muscles ; they increase in length from the first, which is short, to the seventh or eighth, and then decrease to the last, of which the cartilage is seldom more than half an inch in length; the two extremilies are convex, the external one is received into a depression in the anterior extremity of the rib, to which it is immovably connected; the internal is at- tached, in the true ribs, to the concave surfaces already described on the edges of the sternum, where a ball-and- socket joint is formed, lined by synovial membrane, and possessing considerable motion in the young subject; the cartilages of the three superior false ribs are continuous with one another and with the cartilage of the last true rib, and occasionally present on their edges (when they are in contact with each other) small articulating surfaces; those of the floating ribs are separated from the rest, and are lost in the abdominal muscles. The cartilage of the first rib is exceedingly sho7-t, and is remarkable for being more intimately connected with the sternum than the rest, having no intervening synovial membrane, and for being continuous with the inter-articular cartilage of the stej-no- clavicular articulation ; the second is remarkable for being identified at its anterior extremity with the cartilaginous structure already described as connecting the two pieces of the sternum, with each of which it is articulated, and is thus said to have two synovial membranes. The cartilages of the ribs are frequently ossified, not only in the old sub- ject, but even in the young, particularly in the phthisical individual; their structure then resembles that of the ribs. They are most liable to ossification in the male.21 LIGAMENTS OF THOKAX. LIGAMENTS AND AKTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. The heads of the ribs, excepting the first, eleventh, and twelfth, presenting two convex articulating surfaces, are received into and between the articulating surfaces on the bodies of tivo of the dorsal vertebrce, and are connected to them by the anterior costo-vertebral or stellated ligament, the inter-artieular ligament, and a double synovial mem- brane. The tubercles are directly connected to the trans- verse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head of each rib is articulated, hy the posterior and the middle costo-transverse ligaments, and a synovial capsule lined by synovial membrane; and their necks are con- nected with the transverse processes of the vertebrae by the inferior costo-transverse ligament. • The anterior costo-vertebral or stellated ligament is situated in the interior of the thorax; it arises from the anterior surface of the head of the rib, from which it radiates to be attached to the bodies of the vertebrse above and below, and to the intervertebral substance in the centre. The inter-articular ligament ov fihro-cartilage is situated in the interior of the joint and stretches from the ridge, already described, on the head of the rib, to the interver- tebral substance, with which it is continuous ; it separates the synovial membrane of this articulation into two distinct sacs. The posterior costo-transverse ligament arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the vertebra, passes almost transversely outwards to be inserted into the non- articular portion of the tubercle of the rib; it is a short and strong ligament. The anterior or costo-transverse ligament arises, narrow and pointed, from the inferior edge of the transverse 'pro- cess of the vertebra above, descends obliquely inwards, expands, and is inserted into the upper edge of the neck of the rib beloiv, near its connection with the body of the vertebra: this ligament forms the external boundary of a triangular space through which the posterior branches of the intercostal artery and nerve pass: the triangle is completed iiiternally by the body of the vertebra, and superiorly by the transverse process which forms its base.22 ANATOMY. The middle costo-transverse ligament is composed of a few irregular fibres connecting the anterior surface of the transverse process to the neck of the rib, and is seen by forcibly separating the bones. The first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, articulating by their heads with a single vertebra, have no interarticular fibro- cartilage; and there is no anterior costo-transverse liga- ment connected with the first and twelfth ribs. The anterior extremities of the ribs are connected to the costal cartilages by means of a synchondrosis articulation, and by the tendinous expansions derived from the different muscles in the neighboui'hood, which also serve to connect the cartilages of the ribs with the sternum; these, in ad- dition, with the exception of the first costal cartilage, possess a synovial membrane, and enjoy a good deal of motion: they form an arthrodial articulation. The last true rib is connected to the xiphoid cartilage by the costo- xiphoid ligament. The structure of the ribs is compact externally, spongy internally; that of the sternum princi- pally spongy, with a thin layer of compact tissue externally and internally. The structure of the cartilages resembles that of cartilage in other situations; they possess great elasticity, and are frequently ossified in the old subject. The ribs have three points of ossification, one for the head, a second for the tubercle, and the third for the body. The Muscles attached to the ribs on each side are: Pectoralis major. minor. Suhclavius. Scaleni. Latissimus dorsi. Serratus magnm. Serratus superior posticus. inferior Sacro-lumbalis. Longissimus dorsi. Levatores costarum. Intercostales. Sterno-costalis. Diaphragma. Obliqmis ex tenuis abdominis. internus Transversalis T , , Reclns \abdomtnis. Quadraltts lumborum.23 THE SACRUM. Muscles attached to the Sternum: Stemo-mastoid. .... liyoid. .... thyroid. Pectoralis major. Sterno-costalis. Intercostales interni. Muscles attached to the Ensiform Cartilage by au aponeurosis: Rectus aldominis. Odliguus eosternus. internm. Transversalis. Diaphragma. Stemo costalis. THE PELVIS. The pelvis is a large bony cavity, situated at the inferior part of the trunk, supporting the spine, resting on the lower extremities, and containing the pelvic viscera; it is formed by four bones, the sacrum, two ossa innominata, and the os coccygis. The sacrum is situated at the posterior part of the pelvis, of a triangular or wedge shape, with the base* directed upwards and the apex downwards; it is firmly impacted between the ossa innominata, and presents a base, an apex, an anterior and & posterior surface, and two lateral edges. The base of the sacrum is turned upwards and slightly forwards, and presents its greatest extent in the transverse direction ; it projects anteriorly, where it forms the pi'o- montory of the sacrum ; behind this is the upper aperture of the sacral canal of a triangular shape, giving lodo-ment to the termination of the cauda equina. The anterior su7face of the sacrum looks also downwards, and presents in the centre four or five transverse ridges, indicating the division of the difi'erent pieces (termed false vertebrce), of which the sacrum is composed in infancy; on each side of tbese are the anterior sacral foramina, for transmittino- the anterior sacral nerves, four or five in number, much larger than the posterior, and diminishing in size from above downwards; they are separated by bony surfaces which give attachment to the pyriformis muscle- the posterior surface of the sacrum is turned considerably24 ANATOMY. upwards, and is convex and irregular; we observe on it, in the mesial line, four or five eminences, more or less united, which correspond with the spinous processes of the vertebrse: at their inferior extremity is a triangular aperture in which the spinal canal terminates, bounded laterally by two tubercles, which give attachment to the sacro-sciatic ligaments; beneath them is a groove which forms, with the OS coccygis, a foramen for the transmission of the last sacral nerve; on each side of the spinal eminences is a gi'oove continuous with the vertebral gutters above, and exhibiting four or five posterior sacral foramina, for trans- mitting the posterior sacral nerves, much smaller than the anterior, and diminishing in size from above downwards— exiernally to these are rough lines, analogous to transverse processes, for the attachment of ligaments; the lateral edges of the sacrum are wide above, narrow and thin inferiorly; they are marked superiorly by a rough articular surface, resembling somewhat the human ear with the concavity turned backwards, for connection with the os innominatum : beneath this it gives attachment to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and forms part of the great sciatic notch. The sacrum belongs to the class of irregular bones, and is composed almost altogether of spongy structure. The OS coccygis is an assemblage of three or four, small irregular bones, decreasing in size from above doiunwards, and held together by ligaments; they are consolidated, not only together, but with the sacrum, in the male subject at the age of thirty-five or forty, bat in the female not till forty-five or fifty. They are chiefly composed of spongy tissue. The ossa innominata are two irregularly-shaped bones situated one on each side of the pelvis; each consists of three parts, the ilium, ischium, and pubis, firmly united in the adult, but separated in the young subject: these three bones unite together in the acetabulum, the ischium forming rather more than two fifths, the ilium rather less than two fifths, and the pubis one fifth. Of the three parts, the ilium is the largest, and forms the superior expanded part of the os innominatum ; tlic ischium is next in size, and forms the posterior inferior part; whilst the pubis is the smallest, and occupies the anterior part of the bone. On the outer surface of the os innominatum theOSSA INNOMINATA, 25 parts seen are, posteriorly, a rough surface, for the attach- ment of the gluteus maximus; anterior to this a smooth surface, bounded by a slight crescentic ridge, which com- mences at the anterior superior spinous process, for the attachment of the gluteus medius; and beneath this a semicircular surface, for the gluteus minimus, on which is often seen a foramen for a nutritious artery; still lower, and somewhat anterior to the last, is a rough surface, for the attachment of the origin of the rectus and cotyloid ligament, and just below it the acetabulum. In the part of the OS innominatum, below the acetabulum, we notice the several parts of the os pubis and ischium, and between them the obturator foramen (the largest bony foramen in the body), giving attachment by its margin to the obturator hgament; above and internally is tlie angle of the pubis, passing downwards to the descending ramus of the pubis, and this lower down continuous within the ramus of the ischium : beneath this is the tuberosity of the ischium, a large bony prominence projecting inferiorly, and affording origin to several muscles: upon this we rest in a sitting posture : ascending from this towards the acetabulum, we meet with a deep groove, which gives lodgment to the obturator externus tendon. The internal surface of the os innominatum is divided into a superior and inferior part by a prominent ridge, termed the linea ileo-pectinea; the superior, called also the iliac fossa, is filled up by the iliacus internus muscle ; in it we perceive a large nutritious foramen. The linea ilea- * pectinea commences anteriorly sharp and prominent at the spine or tubercle of the pubis, from this, passes backwards and outwards, and then turns slightly inwards, and terminates at the junction of the sacrum and ilium, where it is rounded off; at its awfm'or extremity it gives attachment to Gimbernat's ligament, which occupies nearly an inch, then to the pectineus muscle and pectineal portion of the fascia lata for about an inch and a half, and from thence to its termination posteriorly, to the iliac fascia. The circumference of the os innominatum presents an exceedingly undulating hue; if we trace it along, com- mencing anteriorly at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, we meet with the following objects:—first, the anterior supeiior spinous process .of the ilium, which 226 ANATOMY. gives origin to the sartorius muscle, and Poupart's ligament anteriorly, and the tensor vaginae femoris externally; beneath this is a notch for the exit of the external cutaneous nerve, bounded inferiorly by the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, from which arise the rectus femoris muscle and the accessory ligament of the hip-joint, then a deep groove through which gUde the tendons of the iliacus internus and psoas magnus muscles ; internal to this the ilio-pectineal or pubic eminence, into which is inserted the psoas parvus tendon, and which marks the junction of the ilium and pubis ; internal to this is a long triangular portion of bone, its apex internally, its base externally, slightly excavated, termed the horizontal ramus of the pubis, from which the pectineus muscle arises, then the spine or tubercle of the pubis, a projecting pointed eminence which serves for the insertion of the outer pillar of the external abdominal ring; next the crest of the pubis, extending horizontally between this and the sym- physis pubis, and aflfording origin to the rectus and pyramidalis muscles, and forming the base of the external abdominal ring; descending from this is the angle of the pubis, formed between the crest and symphysis pubis, in front of which passes the internal pillar of the ring; descending vertically is the symphysis pubis, where the two ossa innominata are joined by cai'tilage, then the edge of the descending ramus of the pubis and ascending of the ischium affording attachment to the triangular ligament, the perineal fascia, the crura penis, erector penis muscle, &c.; then the tuberosity of the ischium, giving attachment to the biceps, semitendinosus and semimem- branosus muscles inferiorly, the quadratus femoris and inferior gemellus posteriorly, together with the great sacro-sciatic ligament; superior and posterior to this is the lesser sciatic notch, a smooth depression, prolonged internally, between the tuberosity and spine of the ischium, through which passes out the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, by which it is sometimes grooved ; above this is the spine of the ischium, a sharp bony prominence for the insertion of the lesser sacro- Bciatic ligament and the origins of the superior gemellus muscle externally, the coccygeus muscle ijiternally ; next is the great ischiatic or sciatic notch completed posteriorlyLIGAMENTS OF PELVIS. 27 by the edge of the sacrum, and converted into a foramen by the great sacro-sciatic ligament; this is bounded posteriorly by the posterior inferior spinous jji'ocess of the ihum, but badly marked, ai-ticulated with the sacrum, to which it is connected by ligaments, and internally marked by a rough articulating surface, which corresponds with that on the sacrum ; above this is the posterior sujjerior spinous process of the ilium, giving attachment to the sacro-iliac and ilio-lumbar ligaments; and lastly is the crest of the ilium, which gives attachment by its outer edge to the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, and gluteus maximus muscles, by its internal, to the transversalis and quadratus lumborura, and between these edges, to the internal oblique and erector spinse muscle; it terminates anteriorly at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The ossa innominata belong to the class of flat bones, their structure is therefore spongy, enclosed between two laminse of compact tissue. The Os Innominatum has three primary points of ossifi- cation: one for the Ilium, one for the Ischium, and one for the Pubis. At the age of puberty bony union commences between them, and is complete at about twenty-two years of age. At puberty, also, epiphyses show themselves on the crest and inferior spinous process of the ilium, on the tuberosity of the ischium, and sometimes at the top of the symphysis pubis ; these are perfectly ossified at about twenty-five years of age. The false vertebrae forming the sacrum are developed in a manner very like that of the true vertebrae, by three principal points of ossification. At about puberty, epiphyses are formed on their bodies above and below, and also on each side opposite to the ilium ; and these are all ossified and the bodies united into one piece at from twenty-five to thirty years of age. The segments of the coccyx are developed from single ossific centres, and are gradually ossified from above down- wards ; they ultimately form one bone, which in old age is completely united with the sacrum. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. The bones of the pelvis are connected together, and with the last lumbar vertebra, by powerful ligamentous and car-ANATOMY. 28 tilaginous structures. The sacrum is connected with the last lumbar vertebra by the intervertebral substance, the liga- menta subjlava, and the continuation of the anterior and posterior common ligaments, &c., precisely as the vertebrae are connected together, with the addition of the following ligament. The sacro-vertebral ligament arises on each side from the anterior and inferior surface of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, descends obliquely downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the base of the sacrum, where it is continuous with the other ligamentary struc- tures in this situation. The iliu7n is connected with the spinal column by the ilio- lumbar ligament only; it is of a triangular shape, and arises narrow, thick, and pointed from the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra; it passes almost horizontally outwards, and is implanted into the posterior superior part of the crest of the ilium : it gives origin by its upper edge to the quadratus lumborum muscle, and anteriorly to the iliacus internus. Between the sacrum and ilium we have an articulation, sacro-iliac synchondrosis, more frequently called the sacro- iliac ^symphysis, from its possessing little if any motion; this articulation is formed by irregular articulating surfaces on the lateral surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, each of which is lined by a thin layer of cartilaginous structure almost united together in the adult, and possessing in its interior a remarkable semifluid substance: in the foetus the articulation is lined by a synovial membrane; anteriorly and posteriorly it is strengthened by irregular bands of fibres, termed, from their situation and attachment, the anterior and posterior sacro-iliac hgaments ; they are ex- ceedingly strong, and are attached internally to the sacrum, and externally to the posterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, spreading out to be continuous with the peri- osteum and the other ligaments of this part. The sacmm is connected with thQischium by the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligainents. The greater sacro-sciatic ligament arises from the lateral and posterior surfaces of the sacrum, and also from the posterior inferior spinous process of the ilium and edge of the 08 coccygis; it passes downwards, forwards, and out-THE PELVIS. 29 wards, and is implanted into the tuberosity of the ischium, whence it sends a prolongation forwards to be continuous externally with the origins of the hamstring muscles, in- ternally with the obturator fascia, and is prolonged ante- riorly into a process which assists in binding down the internal pudic artery; this ligament is somewhat of an hour-glass shape, narrow and thick in its centre, broad and thin at its extremities; its outer surface gives origin to the gluteus maximus muscle: it forms the posterior lateral boundary of the perineum, and is situated external and posterior to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. The lesser sacro-sciatic ligament arises, internal and ante- rior to the greater, from the edge and anterior surface of the sacrum and edge of the os coccygis, where it is broad and expanded ; runs horizontally forwards and outwards, and terminates in a point, which is implanted into the spinous process of the ischium. The great sacro-sciatic ligament converts the sciatic notch into a large foramen, which is divided into a greater and lesser by the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; the smaller of these gives egress to the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, ingress to the pudic vessels and nerves; the greater foramen gives exit to the pyriformis muscle, the gluteal artery, and superior gluteal nerve, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the sciatic and pudic arteries ; the first two pass out above the muscle, the remainder below it; the smaller sciatic foramen gives passage to the tendon of the obturator internus, the pudic artery, vein, and nerve. These ligaments, besides connecting the bones together, serve the important office of closing up the inferior aperture of the pelvis, and thus assist in supporting the weight of the pelvic viscera. The ossa pubis are united by a fibro-cartilaginous struc- ture, termed the synqjhysis pubis; this more properly consists of two portions, one of which belongs to each os pubis; they are of an oval shape, thin posteriorly, thick anteriorly ; they are dense and elastic, and are composed of fibres, taking different directions, some transverse, others concentric; in some subjects, particularlv in the female, a synovial membrane has been described as'existing between these cartilages near their posterior surface; it is said to be lubricated with a little fluid, and to allow of slight motion. This articulation is strengthened in front and30 ANATOMY. behind by fibrous structures, termed its anterior and pos- terior ligaments ; they are not important. The ossa innominata are further connected by the sub- pubic ligament, and the triangular ligament oi the urethra; which parts will be more properly described, when consi- dering the genito-urinary organs. The obturator foramen is neaiiy closed up by the obturator ligament; it is an exceedingly thin, delicate ligament, deficient superiorly, to allow of the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves : it is covered internally and externally by the obturator internus and externus muscles respectively. The pelvis, thus formed, is divided into the false and true by the linea ilio-pectinea : the expanded portion above that line is the false pelvis, the deep contracted portion below this line is the true pelvis. The superior aperture of the true pelvis is much smaller than that of the false ; it is triangular in the male, its base posteriorly, oval in the female, with its long axis directed transversely; it is directed downwards and backwards, and a line prolonged downwards through its centre will touch the lower third of the sacrum. The inferior aperture of the pelvis is of a diamond shape, long from before backwards, expanded in its centre between the tuberosities of the ischia: pointed posteriorly at the extremity of the os coccygis, and ante- riorly at the sub-pubic angle, formed by the meeting of the OS pubis of each side; it is bounded^jos<m'o?*/y by the OS coccygis; laterally by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, the tuberosities of the ischia in the centre, and the rami of the ischium and pubis in front; and anteriorly by the sub- pubic ligament filling up the angle of the pubis; its axis is downwards and a little forwards : a line drawn upwards through its centre will touch the sacro-vertebral angle. In the foetus the pelvis is remarkably small, and con- sists of several bones, the sacrum being then divided into four or five pieces, and the os innominatum into the ischium, ilium, and pubis, all of which become consolidated before the age of puberty; they are nearly straight, so tliat the cavity of the pelvis scarcely exists, and present epiphyses at the crest of the ilium and the tuberosity of the ischium; the bladder, rectum, and small intestines then chiefly occupy the abdominal cavity: its aperture is more directly forwards; the change which takes place in31 MUSCLES ATTACHED TO THE PELVIS. the adult being produced by the gradual development of the anterior part of the pelvis, and from its being forced upwards in front by the ossa femoris and pressed down- wards by the spinal column behind. In old persons the pelvis undergoes but little alteration, if we except the change in the ossific deposit which occurs in all bones ; its obliquity is lessened by the spine curving forwards, and the knee bending so as to preserve the centre of gravity. Muscles attached to the Sacrum: Pyriformis. Coccygeus. Ladssimus dorsi. Longissimus dorsi. Multifidus spincB. Gluteus maximus. Muscles attached to the Coccyx : Gluteus maximus. _ Coccygeus. Sphincter ani. Levator ani. Muscles attached to the several parts of the Os Inno- minatum : r Gluteus maximus. Ilium—to the outer surface ■ •\ n medius. 1_ ,, minimus. to the internal surface . . lliacus. to the crista Obliquus externus abdominis. „ internus „ Transversalts. Latissimus dorsi. Sacro-lumbalis. \ Erector Longissimus dorsi. J spinm. Quadratus lumborum. luperior^ to the anterior superi spinous process to the anterior inferior spi nous process . . . Os Pubis—to the crista . . . Tensor vagineB femoris. Sartorius. r Rectus femoris, and its external < tendon from the brim of tlie L acetabulum. Pyramididis. Pectus abdominis. to tubercle and anterior f surface ... 1 externus. to pectineal line . . Pectineus. to crista and symphysis! 1'/''"''eni«.v. L iransversalis.ANATOMY. 32 Os Pubis—to external angular sur- / Adductor longus. face \ „ brevis. to external descending f ^ ... ramus \ ^'^^<^"^- to external margin of f , . obturator foramen .\ Obturator externm. to inner suiface. . } Obturator intemus. L Levator am. Ischium—ramus and outer border f >. of tuberosity . . _ydductor magnus. inner edge of tuberosity Erector penis. ,, ramus . Transversus perinei. inner surface .... Obturator intemus. posterior surface of tu- f'?*^*-?/' u i oemitendtiiosus. berosity r. • z L iiemimembranosus. rough line on outside . Quadratus femoris. surface contiguous to f „ . /. • „ . ° < Gemeltus mferior. spine L . f Gemellus superior. \ Coccygeus. internal surface . . . Levator ani. THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. The BONES of the lower extremity consists of the femur or thigh bone, the patella, the tibia, and the fibula, which are those of the leg; together with those of the foot, consisting of the astragalus, os calcis, os naviculare, or scaphoides, os cuboides, three ossa cuneiformia, five meta- tarsal bones ; and fourteen phalanges, constituting the toes. The femur or thigh bone is the longest and largest bone in the body ; it consists, from above downwards, of a head, neck, trochanters, body or shaft, and the condyles. The head of the femur is encrusted with cartilage ; near the centre of it is a depression for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The 7ieck descends obhquely downwards and outwards, somewhat triangular in form, having its apex at the head of the bone, the base towards the shaft, where it is Hmited by the inter-trochanteric lines ; it is longer posteriorly, and is porous for the transmission of vessels. We next notice the trochanters, major and minor. The trochanter major projects beyond the shaft of the bone, and in the recent state is covered by a bursa; its inner surface, concave, is marked by a deep depression,33 THE TR0CHANTER3. termed the digital fossa, into which several muscles are inserted. The trochanter minor, smaller and somewhat triangular, is situated lower and somewhat at the posterior part of the femur. From it three lines proceed ; two upwards, named inter-trochariteric, and one downwards, which terminates in the linea aspera. The body or shaft of the bone is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, somewhat quadrilateral at the upper and lower parts, but triangular in the centre. It presents an anterior, posterior, internal and external sur- face. Tlie anterior surface gives attachment by its upper three fourths to the crureus, in the lower part to the sub-crureus. The external surface, largest, gives attach- ment to the vastus externus ; the internal surface is covered by the vastus internus. The posterior surface is narrow in the centre, but expanded above and below; on it we see the linea aspera sometimes divided by a groove into two; it arises by two lines: the external one most prominent proceeds from the trochanter major, and gives attachment to the vastus externus and short head of the biceps, and to the tendon of the gluteus maximus ; the inner line arises from the trochanter minor, and gives attachment to the pectineus, vastus internus, and the three adductors. By the convergence of these lines the linea a,5pera is formed, which divides iuferiorly in two ridges, which pass down to the condyles; the external one is strongest, and best marked. The condyles are two : one external, and one internal. They enter into the composition of the knee-joint. In front a depression separates them, named the anterior mter-condyloid fossa, which gives lodgment to the pa- tella ; there is a deep depression between them posteriorly, named posterior inter-condyloid fossa, which lodges the popliteal artery, but is nearly filled up by the ligament of Wmslow. On the outer surface of the outer condyle IS a well-marked eminence for the attacliment of the external lateral ligament, and below it a depression for the tendon of the poplita3us. On the inner surface of the inner condyle is a large pro- minence, giving attachment to the tendon of the adductor magnus and internal lateral ligament. 2§ANATOMY. 34 The two condyles differ from each other in many par- ticulars. The internal condyle is— longer from before, backwards; shorter transversely, projects more posteriorly, ,, less anteriorly, descends lower when the bone is placed vertically. Both of them are covered with cartilage to a much greater extent posteriorly than anteriorly, on account of their relation to the patella. The femur is articulated with three bones, viz., the os innommatum, tibia, and patella. It consists of compact tissue in its centre, spongy at its extremities. Numerous small arteries supply it, especially near the extremities, and a nutritious branch is found to enter the shaft along the linea aspera, either midway or a little higher up ; it is found to enter the bone in an ascending direction, in opposition to the current of the blood. It has five points of ossification ; one for the head, one for each trochanter, one for the shaft, and one for the condyles. The bone is perfectly ossified at about the twentieth year. Muscles attached to the Femur: To Trochanter major . . . . Gluteus medius. ,, mhiimus. Trochanter minor \ Psoas magnus. I Itiacus. r Obturator externus et intemus. Inter-trochanteric fossa . • . •< Gemellus superior et inferior. |_ Pyrifoivnis. Posterior inter-trochanteric line Quadratus femoris. ,, rough surface below 1 , .° X ^ ■ > Gluteus maximus. trochanter major . J line leading from tro- 1 „ .. „„, ° . }■ Pecttneus. chanter minor . . J f Vastus externus et intemtts. linea aspera . . . ■< Triceps adductor. [ Biceps (its short portion), r Gastrocnemius. external condyle . . < Planfaris. (. Pojiliteus. internal condyle . . Gastrocnemius. Anterior surface of shaft . . . Crureus. Subcrureus.35 THE PATELLA. THE BOKES OP THE LEG. The bones of the leg consist of the patella, the tibia, and fibula. Tlie Patella is situated at the anterior part of the knee- joint, between the femur above and the tibia below, of a triangular or heart-shape, having its base above, its apex below ; the base of the patella is thick, cut off obliquely upwards and backwards, and gives insertion to the tendon of the rectus femoris, and crureus muscles; its apex narrow and pointed, directed downwards, gives attach- ment to the ligamentum patellte, the anterior surface is convex and rough, and is marked by longitudinal lines produced by the fibres of the rectus tendon, in which this bone is developed, and by small foramina for the trans- mission of vessels; it is cohered by a large bursa mucosa, and by a tendinous aponeurosis, derived from the extensor tendons ; the posterior surface is smooth and incrusted with cartilage, as it enters into the formation of the knee- joint; it is divided by a ridge running nearly vertically with a slight degree of obliquity inwards into two unequal portions, an external and internal: the external large, corresponds to the articulating surface on the anterior part of the external condyle of the femur, the internal smaller, and is in contact with the internal condyle : the lateral edges are thin, convex, and irregular, and give insertion to the vasti muscles. Its structure is spongy, covered with a thin layer of compact tissue ; it is developed by a single point of ossi- fication which is deposited in the substance of the rectus tendon, from which it derives the appearance of longitu- dinal fibres remarkable on its anterior surface; it is not completely ossified until many years after birth, and may be considered more properly as a sesamoid bone; it arti- culates only with the femur, being connected with the tibia by ligament; in the extended position of the knee-joint it rests on the anterior surface of the condyles of the femur, but in the fi.exed position corresponds to the interval between the two bones. The muscles attached to it are— Rectus femoris. Vastus extermis. Crureus. internus.36 ANATOMY. The Tibia is the principal bone of the leg, and is divided into a superior or femoral extremity, a body or .shaft, and an inferior or tarsal extremity. The upper or femoral extremity is much larger and more expanded than the lower; it is somewhat oval, longest transversely; on its upper surface we observe two articulating surfaces, an external and an internal, termed the condyles of the tibia, incrusted with cartilage for articulation with the femur, and separated from one another by a large bony promi- nence, termed the spine, and two rough surfaces, one in front, the other behind the spine ; the internal articular surface is of an oval shape, long from before backwards, is concave and more excavated than the external, corre- sponding with the internal condyle of the femur; the external articular surface is nearly circular, and but slightly excavated. « The spine, somewhat pyramidal in shape, is directed a little inwards and is placed neai'er the posterior than the anterior part of the tibia; in front of, and behind the spine, are two rough surfaces: the anterior one, large and irregular, gives insei-tion to the anterior extremities of the semilunar cartilages and to the anterior crucial ligament; the posterior, small and excavated posteriorly ; affords in- sertion to the posterior extremities of the semilunar cai-ti- lages and the posterior crucial ligament; as we descend from the articulating surfaces of the tibia we meet with, anteriorly, a large eminence, termed the tubercle of the tibia, which gives insertion to the liyamentum patellce; on the outer side of the tibia is a projection of the bone marked inferiorly by a smooth surface, for articulation with the upper extremity of the fibula; internally is a projection for the insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, marked with a groove for the anterior insertion of the semi-membranosus muscle, posteriorly, a superficial depression filled up by the posterior crucial ligament; the body or shaft of the tibia is that part intervening between the upper and lower extremities: it is large and triangular above, but becomes smaller and more circular inferiorly until we approach the inferior extremity where it again expands ; it may be divided into three surfaces, an internal, external, and a posterior, separated by three ridyes, an anterior, external, andTHE TIBIA. 37 internal; of these, the anterior one is commonly named the shin. The inferior or tarsal extremity of the tibia expands, and assumes a quadrilateral shape ; anteriorly it presents a convex extensive surface, into which the ante- rior ligament of the ankle-joint and anterior tibio-fibular hgament are attached, and over which glide the tendons of the anterior muscles of the leg ; posteriorly, a rough surface which gives attachment to the posterior ligament of the ankle-joint, and the posterior tibio-fibular hgament, and is marked towards its inner edge by a superficial groove running downwards and inwards, which gives lodgment to the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle ; externally, is a rough triangular surface, concave, which gives lodgment to the fibula, and attachment to hgaments which connect these bones together ; internally, the tibia descends farther than in any other direction, and presents a thick and shghtly convex quadrilateral projection, termed the internal molleolus. This eminence is situated on a plane anterior to the body or shaft of the bone ; internally, it is rough, convex, and covered only by the integuments; externally, it is marked by an articulating surface of a pyriform shape, to correspond with a similar surface on the astragalus, for the formation of the ankle-joint; it is continuous with the articulating surface of the lower part of the tibia, which it joins at a right angle; posteriorly, it is grooved for the transmission of the tibialis posticus and flexor communis tendons; inferiorly, it tapers a httle, descends lower in front than behind, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Inferiorly, the lower extremity of the tibia presents a surface covered by cartilage for articulation with the upper surface of the astragalus; it is somewhat quadrilateral concave from before backwards, convex transversely, owing to a ridge which transverses it in the antero-posterior du-ection, ,t is wider anteriorly than posteriorly, and broader externally than internally; it is bounded externally by the articulating surface for the fibula; internally hy the internal malleolus, anteriorly and posteriorly bv the projecting edges of the tibia. ' The tibia articulates with three bones: the femur, the libula, and the astragalus ; its structure is like that of theANATOMY. 38 femur, except that its extremities are rather more spongy; its medullary canal is well marked; it is supphed with blood-vessels from the neighbouring trunks, which enter as in the femur. This bone is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity; the tubercle is occasionally distinct from the rest of the bone, but soon becomes consolidated with it; sometimes the internal malleolus appears to be formed separately: the principal nutritious artery enters at the posterior surface, just below the insertion of the popliteus muscle. This bone is completely ossified at about twenty years of age- Muscles attached to the Tibia: To external surface .... Tibialis aniicus. external tuberosity . . . Extensor lonyus digitornm. By the ligamentum patellae . The extensors of the leg. The Fibula, much smaller than the tibia, is dinded into a superior or tibial extremity, a neck, a body, and an inferior or tarsal extremity; the superior extremity, called also the head of the fibula, is round aud irregular, and presents on its inner side a smooth cartilaginous surface, for articulation with the tibia ; from its external and posterior part ascends a long-pointed process, which gives attachment to the ligaments connecting the fibula and tibia together, to the external lateral ligament of the knee joint, and the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris ; it is sometimes grooved posteriorly for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The neck of the fibula is that part immediately below the head; it is smooth and round ex- ternally where the peroneal nerve winds round it. The body or shaft of the bone is triangular, especially in its centre; it descends obhquely forwards aud inwards, so that its lower extremity is on a plane anterior aud internal to the upper; it is twisted like all long bones, aud curves a little outwards, and may be divided into three surfaces, inner surface Semimembranosus. Popliteus. Soleus. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longiis digitorum. posterior surface .THE TARSUS. 39 an external, internal, and posterior, separated by three ridges, which are anteinor, external, and internal. The inferior or tarsal extremity of the fibula is large and more prominent than the superior; it forms a large irregular projection, of a triangular shape, termed the external malleolus. Its outer surface is rough, convex, and subcutaneous : the internal, also convex but smoother, presents siiperiorlij a triangular surface for connection with the tibia; inferiorly a smooth articulating surface, a little concave from before backwards, to articulate with the outer surface of the astragalus; and behind this, a rough surface into which the posterior fibulo-tarsal and pos- terior tibio-fibular or transverse ligament are implanted. Anteriorly the external malleolus is rough and projecting, and gives origin to ligaments connecting it to the tibia above, the tarsus beneath; posteriorly it is grooved obliquely downwards and outwards for the passage of the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles; the apex of the: external malleolus is turned downwards, and is placed rather posteriorly: the external lateral ligaments of the ankle-j6int are attached near, but not into it. The fibula articulates with two bones, the tibia and the astra- galus ; its supply of vessels, structure, &c. are similar to those of the femur and tibia; it has three points of ossi- fication, one for the shaft and one for each extremity. The chief nutritious foramen is seen on the posterior surface, about the middle of the bone. Muscles attached to the Fibula. To internal surface .... Extensor communis diffitornm. „ proprius pollicis. Peroneus tertius. posterior surface Solceus. Flexor longus pollicis. Tibialis posticus. external surface .... Peroneus longus. . » brevis Biceps flexor cruris. The Foot is divided into the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. The Tarsus occupies the posterior half of the foot and 18 composed of seven bones ; the astragalus and os calcis behind; the navicular, three cuneifonn, {internal, middle, and external,) and the cuboid in front. The Tarsus may40 ANATOMY, thus be divided, like the carpus, into a posterior and an anterior row of bones. Tlae Astragalus, second in size, is situated in the su- perior and internal part of the tarsus, and nearly in its centre, between the tibia above, the malleoli on either side, the os calcis inferiorly and posteriorly, and the na- vicular bone anteriorly. It is divided into the body, neck, and head; the body of the astragalus occupies the pos- terior part of the bone ; superiorly it presents a smooth cartilaginous surface for articulation with the tibia, nsirro'wer posteriorly than anteriorly, its outer edge higher than its inner; on each side of this is an articulating surface, one internal somewhat pyriform, with its larger extremity Jbrwards, for the internal malleolus ; the other external, triangular with its base above, larger than the internal, for the external malleolus. Inferiorly the astra- galus presents two articulating surfaces; a -posterior one, large and external, rests on the body of the os calcis; an anterior one internal, much smaller, rests on the sus- tentaculum of the same bone—these two articular surfaces are separated by a deep groove, which only transmits vessels and gives lodgment to an interosseous ligament. Pos- teriorly the astragalus is of small extent, and is marked by a deep groove, which gives lodgment to the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, and into the edges of which the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint is implanted. The neck is the most contracted part of the bone, placed in front of the body and behind the head; it is exceed- ingly rough and porous for the transmission of vessels, and is not marked by any articular surface; the head of the astragalus is placed in front of the neck, directed obliquely Vorwards and inwards ; it is marked anteriorly by an oblong articular surface, which is received into the OS naviculare in front, and is prolonged inferiorly into an articular surface, which is supported by the calcaneo- navicular ligament. The astragalus articulates with four bones: the tibia above and internally, the ?ih\x\& exter- nally, the OS calcis inferiorly, and the os naviculare anteriorly. No muscle is attached to this bone. The Os Calcis is the largest bone of the tarsus, placed between the astragalus, wl)ich is superior, and the os cuboides, anterior to it, so situated as to support nearly theTHE OS CUBOIUES. 41 whole weight of the body. It presents a large projection posteriorly, named the tuberosity or heel. The particular parts to be noticed are the following: two large articu- lating surfaces for the astragalus; the smaller of the two is anterior, inferior, and more internal, and rests upon a part which is by some named sustentaculum tali, or ossis calcis. At the under surface of the bone and posteriorly are two tubercles, the inner one larger; on the outer surface there is a prominent tubercle, which gives attach- ment to the perpendicular ligament: the inner surface of the bone is concave, forming an arch for the passage of vessels, nerves, and tendons to the foot; anteriorly there is a large cartilaginous surface for articulation with the OS cuboides. The os calcis is articulated with only two bones, viz., the astragalus and os cuboides. The muscles attached to the Os Calcis: To the dorsal surface . . . Extensor brevis digitorum. posterior surface . . . Plantaris. bv tendo achillis . \ Gastrocnemius. \_ aoleus. r Musciilus accessorius. inferior surface, internally . i Abductor pollicis. I Flexor brevis digitorum. " >i externally . Abductor minimi digiti. anteriorly and inferiorly . | ^'«*'or- brevis pollicis. I Abductor pollicis. The OS naviculare or scaphoid bone is situated at the inner side of the foot, presenting internally a hook-like projection, which gives attachment to the tendon of the tibialis posticus and calcaneo-navicular ligament. This boue presents a cup-like cartilaginous surface posteriorly for articulation with the head of the astragalus; and three articulating surfaces anteriorly, for the cuneiform bones; the inner one is largest, the outer one smallest • on the external aspect there is sometimes seen a small cartilaginous surface for articulation with the os cuboides J he OS naviculare articulates with five bones, viz the astragalus, cuboid, and three cuneiform boues. Muscle attached : Tibialis posticus. The 05 cuboides is situated at the outer side of the foot larger internally, smaller and shorter externally, where it presents a groove for "the passage of the tendon of the42 A?^'ATOMY. peroneus longiia. The under surface is divided into two by a ridge, the posterior part of which gives attachment to the calcaueo-cuboid ligament, the anterior lodges the tendon of the peroneus longus; internally there are two articulating surfaces—one, smaller and sometimes wanting, for the navicular, the other for the external cuneiform bone; posteriorly there is a large cartilaginous surface for articulation with the os calcis ; and anteriorly a large sur- face divisible by a slight ridge into two for articulation with the two external metatarsal bones. The cuboid articulates with four bones, the os calcis, external cuneiform, two metatarsal bones ; and sometimes with a fifth, viz., the navicular. Muscles attached: Abductor polUcis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. The cuneiform bones are three, internal, middle, and external, and occupy nearly the centre of the foot. The internal cuiaeiform bone is the largest, and is thickest on its inferior aspect. It articulates by cartilaginous surfaces with four bones : anteriorly, with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. externally, with the second metatarsal bone, and with the second cuneiform bone. posteriorly, with the navicular bone. Muscles attached: Tibialis anticus. „ posticus. Peroneus longus. The middle cuneiform bone is the smallest of the three, and is wedged in between the two others; its dorsal surface is of a quadrangular shape, its apex is turned downwards, towards the sole of the foot. It articulates by cartilaginous surfaces with four bones: anteriorly, the second metatarsal bone. posteriorly, the navicular bone. externally, the external cuneiform bone. internally, the internal cuneiform. It has the tendon of the tibialis posticus slightly at- tached to it; also the flexor poUicis brevis. The external cuneiform bone, quadrangiilar on its dorsal surface, and rather oblong, is pointed mfenorlyTHE METATARSDS. 43 towards the sole of the foot. By cartilaginous surfaces it articulates with six bones : anteriorly, with the third metatarsal bone. internally, with the second metatarsal and middle cuneiform bones. posteriorly, with the navicular bone. externally, with the cuboid, and more anteriorly with the fourth metatarsal bone. The muscles attached are : Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. The tarsal bones are composed of spongy tissue, with a layer of compact matter on their surface. They are developed from one point of ossification, excepting the OS calcis, which has two; and at birth they are almost entirely cartilaginous. The Metatarsus consists of five bones, which belong to the class of long bones, each consisting of a posterior or tarsal extremity and an anterior or phalangeal, which is also named the head. The upper extremity presents a smooth surface, for articulation with the bones of the tarsus; the head is rounded, with its long axis downwards, and just behind this is a prominent ridge, but separated from the smooth surface of the head by a groove; the bodies are flattened laterally, for the lodgment of the interossei muscles. The 1st metatarsal bone is the shortest and strongest; its posterior articulating surface, in shape, somewhat re- sembles the human ear. It presents a tubercle inferiorly and externally, for the attachment of the peroneus longus ; its anterior extremity is quadrangular, and marked in- feriorly by two grooves, which give lodgment to the two sesamoid bones. It is articulated with five bones, viz.: internal cuneiform, second metatarsal, the first phalanx, two sesamoid bones. The 2d metatarsal bone is the longest, and at its poste- rior part 18 wedged in between the cuneiform bones. It articulates with six bones, viz.: the three cuneiform bones, first and third metatarsal, first phalanx of the second toe.44 ANATOMY, The 3d metatarsal bone is a little shorter than the preceding. It articulates with four bones, viz.: The 4th metatarsal bone, slightly shorter than the former, has much the same form. It articulates with five bones, viz.: The 5th metatarsal bone projects more posteriorly than any of the others; presenting externally a tubercle, which gives attachment to the tendons of the peroneus tertius and brevis, and to the abductor minimi digiti, and is a guide to Hey's operation on the foot. It articulates with three bones, viz.: The metatarsal bones are like long bones in structure, spongy at their extremities, compact in the centre, and presenting a medullary canal. They have two points of ossification, one for the body, and one for the head, which is in a state of epiphysis for sevei-al years. The 1st meta- tarsal bone is diff"ereut from the other four, its epiphysis being at the posterior or tarsal extremity. Muscles attached: second and fourth metatarsal, the external cuneiform bone, first phalanx of third toe. external cuneiform, cuboid, third and fifth metatarsal bones, first phalanx of the fourth toe. the cuboid, fourth metatarsal bone, first phalanx of the little toe. To all these bones . . . . the first metatarsal bone second Interossei. Transversalis pedis. Tibialis an/icns. Peroneus loiiffus. third Adductor pollicis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor minimi digiti. Peroneus brenis. ,, tertius. fifth The Phalanges form the bones of the toes, three to each, excepting the great toe, which has only two ; the upper ones are named metatarsaly the next middle, and theTHE HIP-JOINT. 45 most anterior, ungual. The metatarsal phalanges are the longest and largest, concave at the posterior extremity, convex at the anterior, rough on their under surface and sides, for the attachment of ligaments, covered by the expansion of the tendons of the extensor muscles, laterally by the tendons of the interossei and lumbricales, and inferiorly grooved for the flexor tendons. The middle phalanges give attachment laterally and inferiorly to the tendons of the flexor brevis. The middle phalanx may be said to be wanting in the great toe. The ungual phalanx is small and triangular, largest in the great toe; rough at the anterior extremity, for the attachment of the nails, and the expansion of the tendons of the extensor longus and flexor longus digitorum. The first phalanx belongs to the class of long bones the others consist chiefly of spongy tissue; they are gene- raHy developed from one ossific centre, with an epiphysis at the posterior or dorsal end of each. Muscles attached: To great toe. CExtensor brevis digitorum. First phalanx . . . J Flexor brevis poUiciis. j Abductor poinds. {^Adductor ,, Second phalanx . . 5 Extensor proprius pollicis. ' \ Flexor longus „ First phalanx of four smaller f Interossei. '■"^^ 1 Lumbricales. Second phalanx of the four 1 „, smaller toes . . . ^'texor digitorum brevis. Third phalanx of the four | ^^'""^ digitorum longus. smaller toes . . . . ] Extensor longus digitorum. L » brevis „ To the little toe .... / Abductor minimi digiti. ' 1 Flexor THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY hip-jomt, or iho-femoral articulation; the knee-joint the ^perior and ^nfer^or tihio.fibular articulations; the an/^! joint, smikt\\Q articulations of the foot. uniue THE HIP-JOINT. This articulation is formed by two bones, the as inno- mmatum and the femur.46 ANATOMY. The Os Innominatum presents in its contracted part an excavation termed the acetabulum, which receives the head of the femur; it is a deep, cup-like cavity, nearly circular in shape, and surrounded by a projecting Up of bone, strong and prominent towards its upper and back part, projecting but little anteriorly, where it is formed by the OS pubis, and altogether deficient internally and inferiorly towards the thyroid foramen, where it presents a deep notch, converted by the cotyloid and transverse ligament into a foramen, which serves for the transmission of vessels to supply the head of the femur; its cavity is Kned by cartilage,' except at the anterior inferior part, where we see a rough irregular surface for giving origin to the ligaraentum teres, and lodgment to a quantity of fatty substance, formerly called Haversian glands. This car- tila<^e is thicker at the superior part of the acetabalum, where it rests on the upper surface of the head of the femur, and is of much greater thickness at the circum- ference than in the centre, like all cartilages Immg concave surfaces the depth of this cavity is from an inch to an inch and a half. . . „ . ^, ■ The parts of the Femur which assist in forming tliis articulation are the head and part of the neck. The head of the femur is of a somewhat spherical shape, covered by cartUage to the extent of about two thirds of a sphere; the cartilage extends more outwardly on its superior than its inferior surface : nearly in its centre, but a htt e posterior and inferior to it, is a depression for receiving the insertion of the ligamentum teres. The neck of the femur superiorly is of short extent, and concave for the purpose of allowing of abduction of the femur; inferiorly it is also excavated but is much longer; anterior surface of the neck ot the femur is nearly plane, and presents numerous forannna for the transmission of blood-vessels: the posterior surface is deeply excavated to aUow of rotation outwards, is much more extensive than the anterior, is rough from the passage of blood-vessels, and gives insertion about its centre to the capsular ligament. The neck differs in the femalc subject: it is much longer and more rounded, not so triangular, and is directed more horizontally. In the old siibject it becomes horizontal, is shortened considerably, and under- goes a process of interstitial absorption, which removes47 THE LIGAMENTUM TERES. most of its animal matter, and thus gives rise to its being frequently fractured at this period of life: in the young subject it hardly exists. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOINT. The ligaments of the hip-joint are the cajisular and the accessory ligaments, situated externally; the cotyloid ligament and ligamentum teres, internally. The capsular ligament is by far the strongest and most perfect ligament of the kind in the human body; it arises superiorly from the outer surface of the brim of the acetabulum beyond the cotyloid liicament, passes from this downwards and outwards, envelops the head of the bone, and IS inserted into the neck which it closely embraces' extending anteriorly as far as the anterior inter-trochanteric line ; hut posteriorly only as far as about three fourths of an inch, from the posterior inter-trochanteric line; which explains how fracture of the neck of the femur can occur partly withm and partly beyond the capsular ligament, fh.s ligament is strong and thick anteriorly, and is also strengthened by the tendinous origin of the rectus femoris muscle, and the accessory ligament; it is thin and weak towards the thyroid foramen, it is perforated by the tendon ot the rectus femoris muscle ; on its external surface it is covered by numerous muscles which assist in strengthening the joint; on its inner surface it is lined by synovial membrane. ^ j-^uvidi The accessory ligament is situated on the anterior part ot the joint; It arises from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilmm, expands, passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the lesser trochanter • it strengthens the articulation in front, supports the head of he (emur, and prevents too great extension of the joint; muscles'«i '^^/^^^ P^-^gnus and iliacus internu Cf wb r^^^ ^'/'°™^^"''^ '''' ^'^P-'^^'^ted by a large ouisa, which sometmies communicates with the ioint- post^orly; ,t is identified with the capsular igamen^t ' frni ^"'"''f'r^' i^'t^r-articidar ligament arises by TwfhraSf onfr "''1 ^^^'^^^-^ cCmference U n ''''^ ^'^^ ""^^'h in its implan ed inf<; 1^?"" o^xi^^n\., and is implanted into the depression in the head of the femur.48 ANATOMY. Its two heads are separated by the vessels passing to the head of the bone, branches of the obturator and internal circumflex arteries, the conduction and protection of which seem to be its principal use. The cotyloid ligament surrounds the brim of the ace- tabulum to which it is firmly attached ; it is deeper at the upper and back part of th& acetabulum than elsewhere: its structure is fibro-cartilaginous, its fibres running obliquely towards the bone; it is continuous with the tendon of the rectus femoris muscle, and is hued by synovial membrane ; its use is to deepen the cavity of the acetabulum without interfering with the motion of the ^°^A^'few fibres pass in a transverse direction, across the notch beneath the cotyloid ligament, which have received the name of transverse ligament, they are seldom so distinct as to deserve a separate name; they are intimately connected with the cotyloid hgament. The interior of the hip-joint is hned by a synovial membrane, which covers the head of the bone, part of its neck lines the capsular ligament, and is reflected upon the round ligament. Like similar membranes it forms a shut The hip-joint belongs to the class of Enarthrodial, or ball-and-cup articulations; its motions are very extensive, and comprise Jiexion, extension, abduction, adduction, rotation and circumduction. THE KNEE-JOINT. The knee-joint is formed hy three bones: the femur above, the tibia beneath, and the 2->ateUa m front. The femur presents for the purpose two oval convex eminences, termed condyles, elongated in the antero- nosterior direction, and incrusted with cartilage. _ The superior extremity of the tibia which assists m forming the joint is of an oval shape, elongated trans- versely and is marked with two concave articular surfaces, for the reception of the condyles of the femur, and cor- responds with them; they are also termed internal and external condyles. ^- w The part of the patella which enters into this articulation is its posterior surface ; this is triangular in shape; the49 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. apex inferiorly, the base superiorly ; it is lined by cartilage, and is divided by a nearly vertical ridge into an external and internal part, which correspond with the external and internal condyles. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The ligaments of the knee-joint are divided into external and internal.— The superficial or external ligaments are the— ligamentum patellm, external and internal lateral ligaments, ligamentum postieum of Winslow. The internal are the— two alar ligaments, ligamentum mucosum, transverse ligament, two crucial ligaments, ligament of IFrisberg. This articulation is strengthened by an aponeurotic expansion, derived from the fascia lata, and the vasti muscles; which is much stronger externalhj than inter- nally, and passes inferiorly in a transverse direction across the ligamentum patellte, which it here binds firmly down ; on raising this we bring into view, in front of the patella, the parietes of a large bursa mucosa which covers the anterior surface of this bone, and is interposed between it and the expansion from the extensor tendons • below this IS a very small and indistinct bursa in front of the ligamentum patellse. The ligamentum patellm arises from the apex of the patella, passes downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia; it is from two to three inches in length, narrow in the centre ex- panded at either extremity; its outer edge is better defined and longer than the internal; a large bursa separates it from the smooth surface on the upper extremfty of the tib a and the superior part of the tubercle. Although called ligament, it is more probably a tendon ; originat It was the continuation of the recl^is femoris tendon^ U^ pate la being developed in its structure, to obviate lie effects of friction ; l,ke tendons, it is smooth and polished and its fibres are longitudinal. f ""oueu 350 ANATOMY, The external lateral ligament is a round fibrous chord ; it arises superiorly from an eminence on the external condyle of the femur, immediately above the depression for the popliteus tendon, passes downwards, a little back- wards and outwards, and is inserted into the upper extremity or head of the fibula, between the tendinous insertions of the biceps flexor cruris ; there is sometimes a second external lateral ligament, situated posterior to the first; it is much smaller, arises from the fibula, passes upwards, and is inserted either into the external semi- lunar cartilage or into the external condyle of the femur; on its outer surface the external lateral ligament is covered by a tendinous aponeurosis, derived from the vastus ex- ternus muscle and fascia lata, it is separated from the external semilunar cartilage by the external inferior arti- The internal lateral ligament is a broad flattened band, attached superiorly to the eminence on the inner surface of the internal condyle ; it passes downwards and forwards, and is inserted into the inner surface and anterior edge of the upper extremity of the tibia; this ligament is from three to four inches in length, and from an inch to an inch and a half in breadth; it is continuous swi^mor/y with the adductor magnus tendon; is expanded the centre, where it intimately adheres to the internal semi- lunar cartilage; is narrow, and pointed inferiorly; its anterior edge is well marked; its fosierior edge is gra- dually lost in the posterior part of the joint; its cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus. „ ^. , • ^ j • The ligamentum posticum of Wmslow is placed m an oblique direction at the posterior part of the joint, filling up the posterior intercondyloid fossa; it is implanted in- feriorly into the internal and posterior part of the tibia, passes upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the external condyle of the femur; it is perforated by the azygos artery, a branch of the popliteal, and may be con- sidered as being derived from, and forming one of the insertions of, the semimembranosus muscle ; its posterior surface has resting on it the popliteal artery, from which it is separated by a lymphatic gland; its antertor surface corresponds with the articulation.51 LIGAMENTS OP THE KNEE-JOINT. The internal ligaments are the following: The tioo alar ligaments are folds of the synovial mem- brane ; they arise on either side of the patella, pass down- wards, converge, and form an angle, from which arises the following ligament. The ligamentum mucosum arises from the angle formed by the preceding, passes upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the depression between the condyles of the femur; it is exceedingly small and weak, and is sometimes wanting. The transverse ligament is situated in front of the an- terior extremities of the semilunar cartilages, passing from one to the other, occasionally wanting; its use is to connect the two cartilages together, so as to prevent their separation when the femur rests on their superior surface. The crucial ligaments are two in number: an anterior a.nd posterior; and may be seen stretching obliquely from the femur to the tibia, in the centre of the joint; they are called crucial, from their crossing one another, and have received their names of anterior and posterior from their attachment to the tibia. _ The anterior crucial ligament arises superiorly from the mterual surface and posterior part of the external condyle ot the femur, passes downwards, forwards, and inwards and 18 inserted into the rough surface in front of the spine ot the tibia, and into the anterior extremity of the i?iternal semilunar cartilage. The posterior crucial ligament arises superiorly from the external surface and posterior part of the internal condyle of the femur, passes downwards, backwards, and outwards enlarging as it descends, and is inserted into the rough surface behind the spine of the tibia, and into the posterior extremity of the external semilunar cartilage. iTrtSr. connecting the femur, tibia, and fW?^'''. " "'T^ '"^'"'^"'^ «r eversion of the thigh; when the other ligaments of the joint are cut rZ^^' on The hgament of Wrisberg is an irregular band of fibres most frequently wantmg; when present, it stretches from he posterior part of the external semilunar cartilngeT the internal condyle of the femur, and looks likl an52 ANATOMY. additional insertion or attachment to the external inter- articular cartilage. The two semilunar or inter-articulur cartilages are oval-shaped, flattened bodies, of a fibro-cartilaginous structure, placed between the condyles of the femur and the tibia, but more intimately connected with the latter than the former ; they are called external and internal. The exterrial semilunar cartilage is somewhat circular ; it is shorter from before backwards than the internal, but is wider transversely ; its anterior extremity is implanted into the rough surface in front of the spine of the tibia; its posterior extremity is inserted into the rough surface be- hind the spine; its outer edge corresponds to the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and to the external inferior articular artery, which intervenes between it and the external lateral ligament. The internal semilunar cartilage is oval in shape, and longer than the external; has its anterior extremity attached to the rough surface in front of the spine of the tibia; its posterior extremity is inserted into the rough surface behind the spine, its outer edge is firmly connected with the internal lateral ligament. These cartilages, like the crucial ligaments, differ in almost every particular, as may be collected from the preceding description. The use of these cartilages is to present a deep excavation for the reception of the condyles of the femur, to adapt themselves to the different surfaces of the femur in contact with them in flexion and extension, and to lessen the effects ot shocks; the internal one, although more fixed, is more hable to displacement than the external: we may explain this, by the greater weight of the joint being thrown on the inner side, in consequence of the oblique direction ot the femur and the greater depth of the internal condyle, and by the fact of its being more fixed, preventing it from following the condyle of the femur so completely as the external. The synovial membrane is the most extensive m the body, and the most liable to disease ; it lines the joint generally, is reflected upon both surfaces of the cartdages, and ascends a considerable distance-upon the anterior surface of the femur, and only covers the crucial ligaments ^^The^ Anee-ioinf belongs to the class imperfect Angular53 PERONEO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. Ginghjmus. Its motions are flexion, extension, and slight lateral motion in the flexed position. Slight lateral motion is enjoyed in the flexed position of the joint, as when one limb is thrown across the other; it is favoured by the ligaments becoming relaxed, and by the round surfaces on the posterior part of the condyles of the femur corresponding to the semilunar cartilages; this motion is useful in progression, as we are thus enabled more efiectually to turn the foot outwards ; it is altogether wanting in the extended position, because then the greatest weight is thrown on the joint, and any lateral motion would render it insecure. THE SUPERIOR PERONEO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. This articulation is formed by two bones, the tibia and fibula ; they are connected by two ligaments, the anterior and 'posterior peroneo-tibial, and a synovial membrane. The anterior peroneo-tibial ligament arises from the anterior part of the head of the fibula, passes upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the tibia. The posterior peroneo-tibial ligament has a similar origin and insertion to the anterior; it is not so strong as the anterior ; the interior of the joint is lined by synovial membrane, which is either in close contact with that of the knee-joint, or communicates with it along the tendon of the popliteus muscle ; it belongs to the class Arthrosis ; its motions are very trifling. The Tibia and Fibula are connected in the centre of the leg by a strong fibrous structure, termed the inter- osseous membrane, or ligament; this, more extensive above than below, fills the interval which exists between the two bones, and gives origin to several muscles. Supe- riorly, this membrane is deficient, and leaves a large interval through which the anterior tibial artery, some branches of nerves, and a few fibres of the tibialis posticus muscle pass; inferiorly, it also leaves a passage, but much smaller, for the anterior branch of the peroneal artery; in the centre are many foramina for the trans- mission of vessels. Its anterior surface is covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitormn, extensor pro- jmus pollicis, and peroneus tertius muscles, to all of which54 ANATOMY. it affords origin; its posterior surface is covered by the tibialis posticus and flexor longus poUicis muscles, which also arise from it. THE INFEKIOR. PERONEO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. This articulation, closely connected with the ankle- joint, is formed by the convex surface of the fibula and the concave surface of the tibia, united by two ligaments, the anterior and posterior peroneo-tibial ligaments, and a strong interosseous structure, resembling fibro-cartilage. The anterior peroneo-tibial ligament arises inferiorly from the anterior part of the lower extremity of the fibula, passes upwards and inwards, and is implanted into the anterior surface of the tibia. The posterior peroneo-tibial ligament is similar to the preceding, and is not so well marked as the anterior. The tibia and fibula are also held firmly together by a strong interosseous structure, resembling fibro-cartilage; it will be found to attach itself firmly on either side to the bones above their cartilaginous surface. The lower part of this articulation is lined by cartilage and synovial membrane, which are continuous with those of the ankle- joint. This joint may be said to belong to Amphi- arthrosis; it possesses no motion. THE ANKLE-JOINT. This articulation is formed by three bones; the tibia, and fibula, superiorly; the astragalus, inferiorly. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. The ligaments of the ankle-joint are,— internal lateral, external lateral, anterior and posterior tibio-tarsal, posterior tibio-fibular. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is covered by the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor communis muscles, the posterior tibial artery, nerve, &c.; it arises superiorly from the inferior edge of the internal malleolus along its whole extent: from this its fibres pass in a radiated manner; the anterior are inserted into the under surface of the os naviculare, the middle pass dn-ectly down-THE ANKLE-JOINT. 55 wards to be inserted into the inner part of the astragakis, where they form a fibrous canal, through which the tendon of the flexor pollieis runs, and into the sustenta- culum of the OS calcis ; the posterior fibres are inserted also into the astragalus and os calcis; this ligament is broad, strong, and expanded, like internal lateral ligaments in general, in order to support the weight of the body- thrown obliquely on it, in consequence of the obliquity of the superior articular surface of the astragalus. The external lateral ligaments are three in number, the anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior ligament arises from the anterior edge of the external malleolus, passes almost horizontally forwards and inwards, and is inserted into the rough surface on the upper and outer part of the neck of the astragalus. The middle external lateral ligament arises from near the apex of the external malleohis, passes downwards, backwards, and inwards, and is inserted into a tubercle on the outer surface of the os calcis: it has also received the name of perpendicular ligament; the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis wind round its outer surface. The posterior external lateral, or posterior peroneo- tarsal ligament, arises from the inner surface of the external malleolus, passes horizontally backwards and inwards, and is inserted into the rough surface ou the posterior part of the astragalus. The anterior tibio-tarsal ligament arises from the ante- rior surface of the tibia, and is implanted into the upper part of the neck of the astragalus ; it is a weak, indistinct ligament; the synovial sheath investing the extensor ten- dons frequently communicates with the ankle-joint through a deficiency in this ligament. The posterior tibio-tarsal ligament is placed at the posterior part of the joint, and is still more indistinct. The posterior tibio-Jibular ligament. This ligament is situated at the posterior part of the ankle-joint; it stretches from the outer surface of the internal malleolus trans- versely across, to be implanted into the inner surface of the external malleolus ; it is sometimes but badly marked ; this hgament might be called the cotyloid ligament of the ankle-joint; its use is to deepen the articular cavity without interfering with the motion of the joint; itsANATOMY. 56 structure approaches to fibro-cartilage; it is lined by the synovial membrane. The interior of the ankle-joint is lined by synovial membrane, -which invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones, and passes up a very short distance between the tibia and fibula. The ankle-joint belongs to the class of Angular Gin- glymus (imperfect); its motions are flexion, extension, and slight lateral motion in the extended position of the foot. THE AKTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. The articulations of the foot may be classed into those of the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. The articulations and bones of the Tarsus are united by numerous ligaments, named from the bones to which they are attached, and situated chiefly on the dorsum, and in the sole of the foot; they are hence divided into the dorsal and plantar ligaments; there are but few of them of such importance as to require a very detailed descrip- tion, consisting of bands of fibres passing from one bone to another. The principal are the calcaneo-navicular and the calcaneo-cuboid, or ligameyitum longwn, both plantar ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are much weaker than the plantar. The calcaneo-navicular ligament is situated at the inner part of the foot, where it is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which lies immediately beneath it; it is attached posteriorly to the anterior part of the sustentaculum of the os calcis, passes forwards and in- wardsj and is inserted anteriorly into the under surface of the navicular bone ; the inferior surface of this ligament is covered by the tibialis posticus tendon; its superior is lined by synovial membrane, where it supports the head of the astragalus without being attached to it; its structure is fibro-cartilaginous, or even sometimes bony, particularly in its centre, where it lies between the tendon inferiorly and the bone superiorly; its principal use is to support the head of the astragalus, for which purpose it possesses much elasticity.57 METATAIISAL ARTICULATIONS. The calcaneo-cudoid ligament or ligamentum longum is the longest and most powerful of the ligaments of the foot; it arises from the posterior and inferior part of the OS calcis, passes forwards, and is inserted first into the tubercle on the under surface of the cuboid bone, then assists in forming the tendinous sheath for the peroneus longus tendon, and finally is implanted into the base of the metatarsal bones, spreading out and mixing its fibres with the ligaments which connect these together; it lies deep in the sole of the foot. Between the bones will be met with, occasionally, inter- osseous ligaments of a strong fibrous nature: the most remarkable of these are, one which is lodged in the deep groove in the under surface of the astragalus, connecting it to the OS calcis, and another between the navicular and cuboid bones. The various articulations of the tarsus are lined by a synovial membrane. The astragaleo-navicular is the most moveable articu- lation in the foot, as may be inferred from the nature of th6 articular surfaces of the bones : it enjoys almost every motion, though in a slight degree, and is lined by a distinct synovial sac; it is through it, that Chopart's amputation of the foot is performed. THE METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS. The metatarsal and phalangeal articulations are of a very simple character; in addition to the tendinous ex- pansions covering them, they are strengthened by lateral ligaments, and are hned by a synovial membrane. Their chief motions are flexion and extension. The structure of the foot is such as is best adapted for Us intended use. It supports the weight of the whole body, and at the same time enjoys much motion and some elasticity. It presents two arches; one transverse smaller ; the other, larger, is directed from behind for- wards Of the latter, the points of support are posteri- orly the tuberosity of the os calcis; anteriorly, the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations : this arch is most evident on the inner side of the foot. lu addition to the strength thus obtained, the arched state is also useful in giving lodgment to the principal vessels, nerves, &c., whid, run along the under part. Mr. Aberncthy compared the foot 3§58 ANATOMY. to a tripod, the three points of support being, one pos- teriorly at the OS calcis, anteriorly at the ball of the great toe, and externally at the projecting base of the httli metatarsal bone; the last, however, seldom touches the ground. THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. The upper extremities may be divided each into the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand. THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES consist of the clavicle and the scapula, which are those of the shoulder, the humerus or bone of the arm, the radius and ulna, which constitute the/ore-am, and the bones of the hand, which are divided into those of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. The carpal bones are eight in number viz. the os scaphoides or namculare, lunare, cuneiforme or pyramidale, pisiforme, trapezium, trape- zoides, magnum, and unciforme. The metacarpal bones are five in number, one for each finger ; the phalanges are like those of the foot, fourteen in number, three for each finger and two for the thumb. BONES OF THE SHOULDER. The clavicle, or collar-bone, extends from the sternum to the scapula; it is divided into its sternal md scapular extremities, and its body or shaft. , • i The sternal, or anterior extremity of the clavicle, is thick, strong, and triangular ; it is marked by a carti- laginous surface, for articulation with the sternum ; its edges give attachment to ligaments; from this the body of the clavicle passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, covering the first rib and coracoid process of the scapula, curved on itself so as somewhat to resemble an italic having its convexity first turned forwards and then back- wards; near the sternum it gives attachment t.o the cla- vicular position of the pectoralis major muscle, by its nosterior concave portion to the sterno-cleido mastoid Inferiorly it presents a rough surface, for the insertion of the Jhomboid ligament. In the centre the clavicle becomes smooth, circula?. and contracted, and gives ong.n to no Tusc liar fibres; it is here that the two curves, of which I59 THE CLAVICLE AND THE SCAPULA. the bone is composed, meet, and that fracture is so fre- quent; its under surface is rough, for the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament; towards its scapular, or acromial extremity, the clavicle becomes flattened supe- riorly and inferiorly, and gives attachment by its anterior concave edge to the deltoid muscle, by its posterior con- vex edge to the trapezius; inferiorly it is rough, and marked by a groove for the insertion of the subclavius muscle; in this part is the foramen for the nutritious artery of the bone; external to this is a rough surface, for the insertion of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. The acromial end has its superior and inferior surfaces rough, for the attachment of ligaments connecting it to the acromion process ; it is marked at its outer edge by an articular surface. The clavicle articulates with only two bones, the sternum and scapula. The use of the clavicle is to keep back the shoulder and connect the scapula to the trunk, being their only bony connection; it also protects the subclavian artery and vein, and brachial plexus of nerves, from injury: its me- dullary canal is not well marked. In the female the clavicle is longer in proportion and less curved than in the male ; it is also much smaller and more circular in shape. In the fmtus it is the first bone developed, appearing so early as the sixth week; it has three points of ossification, one for the body and one for each extremity; that for the body appears much sooner than the others. This bone is more perfectly ossified at birth than any others, excepting the ossicula aiiditus. Muscles attached to the Clavicle : Sterno-masloideus. Subclavius. Pectoralis major. Deltoides. Trapezius. Slerno-liyoideus. The Scapula is placed at the posterior and upper part of the trunk, extending from the second to the seventh rib inclusive it is of a triangular shape, and is divided into two surjaces, an anterior and posterior; three edg-es or borders, a superior ^posterior or vertebral, and an inferior ov axillary ; and three angles, which are posterior, inferior and anterior. j yANATOMY, 00 The anterior surface of the scapula, called also the subscapular fossa, is directed towards the thorax; it is excavated to accommodate the convexity of the ribs, on which it rests, and to give lodgment to the subscapular muscle ; it is marked by three, four, or five obhque ridges, which run downwards and backwards; between these ridges the bone is thin and transparent; at the posterior part of the fossa, near the superior and inferior angles, it is smooth, for the insertion of the serratus magnus ^"^htposterior surface or dorsum of the scapula is divided unequally into two portions, a superior and inferior, by a ridge of bone, termed the spine; the superior part, called the supraspinous fossa, is much smaller than the inferior; it gives lodgment to the supra-spinatus muscle: the inferior part, called the infra-spinous fossa, affords origin to the infra-spinatus muscle; at its lower part, near the axillary border of the scapula, it becomes thick and elevated, and forms a somewhat flat surface, marked by two ridges; this is broad and quadrilateral inferiorly, where it gives origin to the teres major muscle, narrow and triangular superiorly, where the teres minor arises. The spine of the scapula is triangular in shape; it commences near the posterior edge of the scapula, by a triangular smooth surface, over which passes the tendon of the trapezius muscle, and from which it is separated by a bursa- from this the spine ascends outwards and forwards, inferiorly gives origin to the deltoid muscle, superiorly to the insertion of the trapezius, and terminates in the acromion process; this is a projection of bone, flattened superiorly and inferiorly, which overhangs the shoulder- ioint; anteriorly it is marked by an oblong articulw surface, which articulates with and supports the clavicle; the external edge is convex, and gives origin to the deltoid muscle. In general two or three foramina, for the passage of vessels, may be observed at the root of the spine. The superior border of the scapula is the shortest of the three • at the junction of its anterior and middle third is a notch converted into a foramen by the posterior proper Ueament, which gives transmission to the supra-scapular ,ierve the artery of the same name in general passes above ibis ligament; in front of the notch arises a long irregularTHE SCAPULA. 61 eminence, termed the coracoid process; this occupies, at its root or origin, the remaining part of this edge as far as about a line from the glenoid cavity; its upper surface, rough, gives attachment to the conoid and trapezoid liga- ments, and a few fibres of the omohyoid muscle; its under surface is smooth and concave; its internal edge gives insertion to the pectorahs minor; its external, to the coraco-acromial ligament; from its point arise the coraco- brachialis muscle and short head of the biceps: it serves as a protection to the shoulder-joint, which it overhangs towards its internal side. The posterior or vertebral border, or base of the scapula, is turned backwards and inwards towards the spine, to which it is nearer superiorly than inferiorly; it gives attachment to several muscles. The inferior or axillary border is shorter but stronger than the preceding ; it extends from the inferior angle to the glenoid cavity. The posterior angle of the scapula is that formed by the junction of the superior and posterior edges; it is rounded off, and gives insertion to the levator anguli scapulae. The inferior angle is formed by the junction of the posterior and axillary borders ; it is more acute than the posterior, and is covered by the origin of the teres major muscle and the latissiraus dorsi. The anterior angle is formed by the junction of the superior and axiUary borders; it presents a superficial concave articular surface, ovoid or pyriform in shape, its long axis directed vertically, large inferiorly, narrow and pointed superiorly, for articulating with the humerus and forming the shoulder-joint; it is termed the glenoid cavity IS surrounded by a ridge of bone, and by the cotyloid hgament, and is supported by the anatomical neck, which 18 that portion situated behind the edge of the cavity and in front of the root of the coracoid process: this o-ivcs origin to the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint^aud IS called anatomical, to distinguish it from the surgical neck, where fracture sometimes occurs; this is posterior 0 the root of the coraco d process, and passes through the notch in the superior border. The scapula articulates with but two bones, the clavicle and humerL its 3: of connection with the trunk is termed syssarcosis.62 ANATOMY. Muscles attached to the Scapula: _ . , . r Deltoides. Spine and acromion . .| r Biceps (short bead), coracoid process . . A Pectoralis minor. [ Coraco-hrachialis. edge of glenoid cavity . Biceps (long head), superior border . . . Omo-hyoid. ' Rhomboideus major. posterior border . . .< „ minor. [ Serratus magniis. posterior angle . . . Levator anguli scapula. inferior angle .... Latissimus dorsi. {Triceps (long head). Teres major. „ minor. supra-spinous fossa . . Supra-spinatus. infra-spin ous .... Infra „ subscapular fossa. . . Subscapularis. THE HTiMEKUS. The Humerus, or os-humeri, belongs to the class of long bones, and may be divided into its upper extremity or head, its neck, body or shaft, and lower extremity. The head is a round hemispherical convex eminence, incrusted with cartilage, and forms with the glenoid cavity of the scapula the shoulder-joint; it is connected to the shaft of the bone by the anatomical neck of the humerus, a rough irregular depression immediately external to the head, narrow superiorly, wide and expanded inferiorly, which gives insertion to the capsular ligament of the joint: the head is placed on the posterior and inner part of the bone, the shaft of which it joins so as to form an obtuse angle inferiorly. External, and anterior to the neck, we observe two eminences, a larger and smaller, separated by a groove: they are called the tuberosities of the humerus, the larger being the external or posterior; the smaller the internal or anterior. The former of these is placed on the outer side of the bone, is round and marked by three flat sur- faces ; a superior, middle, and inferior, for the attachments respectively of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles. The smaller tuberosity is situated towards the inner side, is sharp and more projecting, and gives attachment to but one muscle, the subscapularis: these tuberosities may be compared to the trochanters of theTHE HUMERUS. 63 femur. The groove which separates them is called the bicipital groove, because in it is lodged the long tendon of the biceps ; it is bounded on either side by two ridges, termed the inner or posterior, the outer or anterior edges of the bicipital groove, which give attachment to muscles. Immediately below the tuberosities the humerus becomes contracted, and becomes the shaft of the bone; this extends from the tuberosities to the inferior extremity; its upper third is round and strong, and has received the name of the surgical neck, as it is here that fracture so frequently takes place, to distinguish it from the anatomical neck already alluded to ; its middle third is irregularly twisted, and of a triangular shape ; its inferior becomes expanded and flattened anteriorly and posteriorly, and about the centre of the internal surface of the bone is the nutritious foramen directed downwards and outwards, surrounded by a rough surface, into which is implanted the coraco- brachialis muscle. The surfaces of the lower part of the humerus are separated by three ridges, an anterior, internal, and external. The inferior extremity of the humerus is turned forwards and inwards, becomes elongated trans- versely, flattened anteriorly and posteriorly, and terminates in forming the articular surfaces, for the reception of the radius and ulna; its anterior surface, which also looks inwards, is convex, and is marked inferiorly by the «?i^mor humeral fossa, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna m flexion of the elbow-joint; the posterior surface turned outwards is more extensive, concave, and marked by a deeper depression, the posterior humeral fossa which receives the olecranon in extreme extension of the joint; externally we observe a process, in which terminates the external ridge of the bone, termed the external condyle ; this IS placed on a plane, anterior to the internal condyle' and gives origin to the external lateral ligament of the elhow, and most of the extensors and supinators of the fore- arm ; as we pass from this internally, we meet with the capdulum, or lesser head of the humerus, a rounded convex, articular eminence, which is received into the cup- like cavity of the radius, and is bounded anteriorly bv a depression tor receiving the radius in flexion of the joint • internal to this is a depression for receiving the proj'cctiug lip of the same bone; still more internally, and separatedANATOMY. G4 from it by a slight projection of tlie bone, is the trochlea, a large articular surface, concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, bounded in front and behind by the anterior and posterior humeral fossae, and articulated with the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna; this is bounded internally by a prominent ridge of bone which descends considerably below the rest of the humerus, and is termed the epitrochlea; internal to this is a rough depression, and most internally the internal condyle, a sharp triangular process of bone, directed backwards and inwards, and placed on a plane posterior and superior to the external, and much more projecting than the other; it gives attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament, and most of the flexor and pronator muscles; the lower extremity of the bone is turned forwards and inwards, so that the fore-arm may be thrown across the chest in flexion of the elbow- joint. The humerus is developed by several points of ossification, at birth the shaft is ossified, and the extremities are entirely cartilaginous, but subsequently ossification proceeds from several points, one each for the head, tuberosities, the condyles, the trochlea, and the lesser head. It is perfectly ossified at about twenty years of age. It articulates with three bones, the scapula, the radius, and ulna. Muscles attached to the Humerus : {Supra-spinatus. Infra spinatus. Teres minor. small tuberosity .... Subscapularis. I" Deltoides. anterior surface ....<. Bracliialis anticus. [ Coraco-brachialis. posterior edge of bicipital J 7'ere« ina/or. posterior surface .... Triceps. external border .... Supinator radii longiis. f Extensor carpi radii longior. groove anterior , Pectoralis major. ,, brevior. external condyle . communis digilorum. carpi ulnaris. minimi digiti. Anconams. [^Supinator radii brevis.THE RADIUS. 65 ^Pronator radii teres. I Flexor carpi radialis. internal condyle by common < ,. „ ulnaris. tendon / „ mblimis digitorum. ^ Palmaris hngus. THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. The bones of the fore-arm are the radius and ulna. The Radius is situated on the outer and anterior part of the fore-arm; it is shorter than the ulna, but extends beyond it inferiorly to form the wrist-joint; it is small and rounded superiorly and inferiorly, expands considerably, is flattened, and quadrilateral; it may be divided into the head, neck, tubercle, body, and lower extremity. The head of the radius is circular and concave, incrusted with cartilage, and forms a cup-hke cavity to receive the capi- tulum of the humerus; it is surrounded by a projecting lip of bone, covered also by cartilage ; expanded internally, where it corresponds to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; more narrow and prominent externally, where it is surrounded by the annular or orbicular ligament: beneath this is the neck of the radius, small, circular, and contracted, about an inch in length, and encircled partially by the annular ligament; beneath it, and on the internal anterior part of the radius, is the tubercle, rough internally, where it gives insertion to the tendon of the biceps ; smooth an- teriorly, where it is covered by a bursa, which separates it from this tendon ; the body of the radius descends from this, and presents three surfaces, an anterior, posterior, and external, separated by as many ridges; the anterior- surface concave, broad, and expanded inferiorly, gives attachment to muscles; at the junction of its upper and middle third, and to its outer side, it presents the foramen for the nutritious artery directed upwards; the external sur- face IS convex, rounded, and arched outwards; the posterior surface is convex superiorly, concave in the centre, and con- vex infenorly, where it is covered by the extensor tendons. Of the th,-ee ridyes, the internal is the best marked ; It gives a tachment to the interosseous ligament; the an- terior and posterior are indistinct. The inferior ox carpal extremity of the radius, is the largest part of the bone; it is quadrilateral, flattened, and concave anteriorly, for the insertion of the pronator quad-66 ANATOMY. ratus muscle ; convex and megu^arposteriorly, and marked with three grooves, an external, middle, and interiial: ot these, the middle is the deepest and narrowest, is du-ected downwards and outwards, and lodges the extensor secundi internodii pollicis tendon. The internal is wider, and gives lodgment to the tendons of the extensor commums and indicator muscles. The external is the widest, but shal- lowest of the three, is sometimes duaded into two, and eives passage to the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis muscles ; on its external surface it pre- sents a triangular rough surface, for the insertion ot the supinator longus tendon, and terminates mferioriy in tne styloid process, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint: this is sometimes grooved posteriorly for the passage of the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and primi intevnodn. Internally, is a smooth articulating surface, concave, which receives the outer edge of the ulna. Inferiorly, the radius pre- sents a concave articular surface, somewhat triangular the base internally divided into two surfaces an external and an internal, by a ridge running from before back- wards; of these the external surface is large and trian- gular, and related to the scaphoid bone ; the eternal is Quadrilateral, and articulates with the os lunare. The ridge is received between these bones ; into its inner edge is implanted the triangidar cartilage of the ^"st-joint; the anterior and posterior edges of these «»f attachment to the anterior and posterior carpal hgaments The radius belongs to the class of long ^^o^^es ; it s developed from three points of ossification-one tor t e body, and one for each extremity; it articulates ^itl foui bones, the humerus, the ulna, the scaphoid, and lunar bones. Muscles attached to the Radius : To tubercle Biceps. „„i,.™.v r Flexor dtgitorum subltmts. J „ longus pollicis. anterior surface . . . .< Snpi)iato)- hrevis. [^Proniitor quad7-alus. outer border Pronator teres. iipir styloid iirocess . • . Supinator longtui. near siyioin i)iul E^vtensor os.iis metacarpi polhcs. posterior surface . . . . -j primi internodii „THE ULNA. The Vina is situated in the internal and posterior part of the fore-arm, large and irregular above; it gradually diminishes as it passes downwards; is triangular in the centre, exceedingly small, and circular interiorly; it is longer than the radius, and passes much higher up on the arm. It may be divided into a superior- and inferior ex- tremity, and a body or shaft. The superior extremity is the large irregular portion which articulates with the humerus; on it are two large processes, a posterior and an anterior : the posterior, called the olecranon, ascends almost directly upwards from the shaft of the bone, being the highest part of the ulna; superiorly, it gives insertion to the triceps muscle; pos- teriorly, it is n^arked by a smooth, elongated, triangular surface, subcutaneous, and covered by a bursa mucosa; internally, it gives attachment to the internal lateral liga- ment of the elbow-joint, and the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle; anteriorly, it is covered by cartilage, and forms part of the great sigmoid cavity. The anterior or coronoid process projects from the ante- rior surface of the bone; it is pointed and triangular, and turned a little upwards : it gives insertion to the brachiahs anticus muscle inferiorly; superiorly, it is concave, and covered with cartilage; internally, it projects, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament, and the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; externally, it is marked with a concave articular surface, elongated from before backwards, termed the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, which receives the lip or edge of the upper extremity of the radius; in front of and behind this surface is attached the orbicular ligament of the radius. The olecranon and coronoid processes are connected anteriorly by a smooth articular surface, named the great sigmoid cavity, concave trom above downwards, convex from side to side, partially divided by a transverse depression into two surfaces, of whicii the upper vertical portion is the larger. It is also friT T t"""'""'^' ^ ^^^tical ridge into two lateral surfaces nearly equal in size, the internal being in frorS TrY' ^"'^^''^ P'"'* articulates with °the 2t f I '""^ continuous with the lesser sigmoid cavity. The body or shaft of tl,e ulna is triangular, and presentsANATOMY. 68 three surfaces and three edges., The anterior surface, con- cave, is marked towards its upper part by the foramen for the nutritious artery, which is directed upwards; its pos- terior surface, irregular, is divided by a line, which com- mences at the lesser sigmoid cavity, and descends, first obUquely, then vertically, into two surfaces, an internal and external; the internal surface flattened, and slight y •concave above, rounded and convex below, is mferiorly subcutaneous. Of the three edges, the external or radial, sharp and projecting above, rounded below, gives attach- ment to the interosseous membrane ; the anterior, rounded; the posterior is subcutaneous, projects much, and gives insertion to the tendinous aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The inferior extremity of the ulna, unlike that ot tlie radius, is much smaller than the superior; it expands a Uttle, and is marked by two articular surfaces, an external and an inferior; the external is convex, long from betore backwards, and articulates with the radius; the inferior is somewhat circular, nearly plane, and is in relation witb the inter-articular cartilage of the wrist-jomt; it is bounded internaUy by a depression, into which is implanted tlie apex of this cartilage ; internally and posteriorly, the ulna terminates in a long-pointed and slightly curved process, termed the styloid process, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wr.st-joint: on the posterior surface of this process is a deep groove, which transmits the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and externally, and near its root, is the depression already described for the apex of the inter-articular cartilage. The structure of the ulna is the same as of all long bones ; it is developed bv three points of ossification, one each, for the body, the olecranon, and lower extremity; it articulates with but two bones, the humerus above and the radius above and below. Muscles attached to the Ulna: rBrachiaUs anficu.i. I Pronator radii teres. To coronoid process . . -i pig^-or digitorum siiMimis. (_ „ longus poinds. r Flexor digitorum profundus. To anterior surface ■ ■ ■{ " ""''J''':"'^'°''!:„n,, [ Pronator radii quadralvs. olecranon Triceps.TTTF, OS CUNEIFORME. 69 Anconeus. Supinator radii brevis. j Extensor carpi ulnaris. posterior surface . . .( „ ossis metacarpipollicis. „ primi intemodii pollicis ? „ secundi intemodii pollicis. ,, indicis. THE BONES OF THE HAND. The bones of the hand consist of the carpal, metacarpal, and phalanges. The carpal bones are eight in number, and are divided into two rows, a superior and inferior, or carpal and metacarpal;. each containing four bones : the superior row contains from without inwards the os scaphoides or navi- cidare, the os lunare, the os cuneiforme or pyramidale, and the OS pisiforme ; the inferior, the os trapezium, os trape- zoides, OS magnum, and os unciforme. The OS scaphoides is placed between the radius superiorly, the second row inferiorly, and the os lunare internally; it IS the largest of this row, is curved and elongated down- wards and outwards; it has three articular, and three non- articular surfaces ; into the external surface is implanted the externallateralligament of the wrist-joint; it articulates with five bones —the radius, the trapezium, and trapezoides, the OS lunare, and os magnum. No muscle is distinctly attached to it. The OS lunare lies between the scaphoid and the cuneiform bone, the radius superiorly, and the second row inferiorly; it is irregular in shape, and has four articular and two non-articular surfaces: its external articular surface is concave and semilunar, whence its name and articulates with the os scaphoides. It articulates 'with fave bones, the radius, the os magnum, and unciforme, the scaphoid, and the cuneiform bone. It has no muscle attached to it. The OS cuneiforme or pyramidale is placed at the inner side of the carpus, between the ulna superiorly, the unciform bone infer.orly, and the os lunare ixternally on a plane interior to it ; it has four articular and two non articular surfaces : of the articular surfaces the supe ior directed a httle inwards, is convex, and corresponds to tJ.^ triangular cartilage of the wrist-joint, which separates it70 ANATOMY. from the ulna. It articulates with three bones: the os lunare, the os unciforme, and the os pisiforme, and the fibro-cartilage already mentioned. No muscle is attached ^'^The OS pisiforme is the smallest of the carpal bones, and is situated on the anterior surface of the last-described bone It possesses but one articular surface, which is placed on its posterior part, and articulates with the cuneiform bone; anteriorly it gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament, and in the rest of its extent to ligaments connecting it to the metacarpal bone of the titth finger and unciform bone. It articulates with but one bone, the cuneiform. Muscles attached to the Pisiform Bone: Flexor carpi ulnaris. Abductor minimi digiti. The OS trapezium is placed between the scaphoid above, the first and second metacarpal bones be ow, and the trapezoides internally. It has three articular and three non-articular surfaces; the external non-articular surfac gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist-ioint; the anterior surface is marked by a deep groove directed forwards and outwards, which gives passage to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and into the edge of which is implanted the anterior annular ligament rticulates with'four bones, the scaphoid the firs metacarpal bone, the second metacarpal bone, and the trapezoides. , ^ m Muscles attached to the Os Trapezium : Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. Abductor pollicis. Opponens » Flexor brevis „ The OS trapezoides is the smallest bone of the second row and is placed between the scaphoid, the os trapezium Jhlos niagfium, and the second metacarpal bone; it is somewhat of a wedge shape, expanded towards the dorsum Sntracted towards the palm of the 1^-d; it has fou ovfiPiilar and two non-articular surfaces. It articulates with four bones: the scaphoid, the second metacarpal bone, the os magnum, and the trapezium.METACARPAL BONES. Muscle attached to the Trapezoid Bone: Flexor brevis pollicis. The OS magnum is the largest of the carpal bones ; four of its surfaces are articular, two non-articular; the superior articular surface, called its head, is convex, and is received into a cavity formed by the scaphoid and lunar bones ; it is supported by a contracted part of the bone, termed the neck. The os magnum articulates with seven bones, the scaphoid, lunar, the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones, the trapezoides, and the unciform. Muscle attached to Os Magnum : Flexor pollicis brevis. The OS unciforme is the second largest bone of the carpus, and occupies its inferior internal part; it is easily recognised by its hook-like process, whence it has received its name ; it has three articular surfaces, two non-articular. The hook-like process, turned forwards and outwards, concave externally, convex internally, gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and some of the muscles of the little finger. The unciform bone arti- culates with five bones ; the lunar, the os magnum, the cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. Muscles attached to the Unciform Bone : Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor minimi digiti. The bones of the carpus belong to the class irregular hones; their structure therefore is spongy, covered with a thin layer of compact tissue ; hence their great liability to caries ; they are developed from a single point of ossifi- cation, with the exception of the unciform, which pos- sesses two ; the OS pisiforme is not ossified till approaching puberty; it might be described as a sesamoid bone beine developed m the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris,'as the patella is in the tendon of the rectus. The metacarpal bones Rre five in number; they beW to the class of long bones, and may be divided each into a superior or carpal extremity, a body or shaft, and an inferior or phalangeal extremity. The Jlrst metacarpal bone is the shortest and strongest • Its phalangeal extremity or head is convex, quadrilaS' and marked with an articular surface, extending towards72 ANATOMY. the side of the flexion, for junction with the first phalanx ; anteriorly are two depressions, which correspond with the two sesamoid bones ; and laterally are rough surfaces for the attachment of ligaments ; the articulating surface has been erroneously described as triangular or wedge-shaped, in order to account for the difficulty experienced in re- ducing the dislocation of this articulation, termed Key's Dislocation of the Thumb. The second metacarpal bone is the longest, and articu- lates with five bones, viz., trapezium, trapezoides, os mag- num, second metacarpal bone, and first phalanx. The third metacarpal bone is next in size and length to the preceding ; it articulates with four bones, the os magnum, second and fourth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx. The/oM?-iA metacarpal bone is shorter than the preceding. It articulates with five bones, the os magnum and unciforme, the second and fifth metacarpal bones, and first phalanx. The fifth metacarpal bone is smaller than the preceding. It articulates with three bones, the unciform, fourth meta- carpal bone, and first phalanx. The metacarpal bones belong to the class of long bones ; they are developed by two points of ossification, one tor the body, and one for the phalangeal extremity, with the exception of the first, in which a second pomt of ossifica- tion is formed for its carpal extremity. The metacarpa bones are supported by the carpal, as follows : the first bv one, the trapezium; the second by three, the trape- zium, trapezoides, and os magnum ; the third by one, the OS magnum ; the fourth by two, the os magnum and unci- form ; the fifth by one, the unciform. Muscles attached to the Metacarpal Bones : r Abductor indicis. To first metacarpal bone ... E-vtemor ossis metacarpi poUicis. L Opponens pollicis. four metacarpal bones of the . , . . • g„„ers Jnterossei extemt et tntemi. r Abductor indicis. second metacarpal bone . A Flexor carpi radialis. { Extensor carpi radtalis longior. j Adductor pollicis. third Extensor carpi radialis brevior. r Extensor carpi ulnaris. fifti, ; \ Flexor „ [Adduciorminimi diffttt.ARTICULATIONS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 73 The phalanges are fourteen in number, three for the four inner fingers, and two for the thumb : they are named in their numerical order from above downwards, viz., the first or metacarpal phalanx, the second or middle, the third or ungual phalanx. The first phalanx of the third or middle finger is the longest, that of the little finger the shortest and smallest. The second or middle phal.anx is the next in size and length: the thumb wants this phalanx. " The third or ungual phalanges are five in number ; in- feriorly become thin and pointed, and terminate by a rough eminence, which gives insertion anteriorly to the tendons of the fiexor profundus, posteriorly supports the nails : the largest is that of the thumb ; the smallest that of the little finger. The first and second phalanges may be classed amongst the long bones, as they present all their characters; the third belong to the irregular bones, and are, like these, spongy in their structure; they are developed from two points of ossification, one for the centre, and one for the superior extremity. Connected with the under surface of the head of the first metacarpal bone of the thumb are two sesamoid bones ; these, like those of the foot, are to give attachment to muscles, and to obviate the effects of friction. Muscles attached to the Phalanges : [Ewtensor primi internodii pollicis. First phalanx of thumb and J Abductor pollicis. sesamoid bones j Adductor „ l_ Flexor brevis pollicis. Second phalanx of thumb . I Extensorsecundiinternodiipollicis. • t Flexor longus pollicis. To first phalanx of the four/ Interossei. fingers \ Lumbricales. To first phalanx of index f Extensor indicis. finger \ Abductor „ To first phalanx of little J Flexor brevis minimi diqiti. finger \ Abductor „ Second phalanx of the four f Flexor digitorummblimis. 1,^1"/"^,; • V • • ; • I Ef tensor communis digitorum. Third phalanx of the iom I Flexor digitorum profundus. I Extensor digitorum communis. THE ARTICULATIONS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The articulations of the upper extremity are the sterno- 474 ANATOMY. clavicular articulation, the scapulo-clavicular, the scapulo- humeral or shoulder-joint, the elbow-joint, the superior and inferior radio-ulnar articidations, the wrist-joint, and the carpal, metacarpal, and phalangeal articulations. THE STERN O-CLAVICULAK AETICDLATION. The sterno-clavicular articulation is formed bet-sveen the sternum and' clavicle ; for this purpose the sternum presents on its upper surface, and near its external and posterior part, an articular surface, directed backwards and outwards, which receives the sternal end of the clavicle: both these surfaces are incrusted with cartilage, and are connected by the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular, and the inter-clavicular ligaments, an inter-articular car- tilage, and a synovial membrane. The anterior ligament arises from the anterior surface of the sternal extremity of the clavicle, passes downwards and inwards, and is attached to the anterior surface of the sternum, where it is lost in the aponeurosis covering this bone. . The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament arises from the posterior part of the sternal extremity of the clavicle, de- scends inwards, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the sternum. The inter-clavicular ligament has no immediate con- nection with the joint; it is placed behind, and a little above the upper extremity of the sternum, and stretches transversely from the sternal extremity of one clavicle to that of the other ; it is exceedingly variable as to size and form; its upper edge gives attachment to the cervical fascia. Its principal use is to connect the clavicles together. On cutting into the sterno-clavicular articulation we see the inter-articular fibro cartilage ; it is a somewhat circular plate of fibro cartilage, placed between the clavicle and sternum. Like all iuter-articular cartilages, it is thick in the circumference, is thin and sometimes perforated m the centre; superiorly, it is attached to the sternal cud of the clavicle ; inferiorlv and internally, it is thin and continuous with the cartilage of the first rib • anteriorly and posteriorly, it has attached to it the anterior and posterior sterno- clavicular ligaments; this cartilage, when perfect, separatesSTEKNO-CLAVICULAE ARTICULATION. 75 the synovial membrane of the articulation into two sacs, an internal and external; when imperfect, as it is sometimes in the centre, the two synovial sacs become continuous. The synovial membrane also hnes the inner surface of the ligaments immediately connected with the joint. This articulation belongs to the class Arthrosis. As we pass outwards, we find that the clavicle is con- nected by ligaments with the first rib and the coracoid process of the scapula, without forming any articulation ; the first of these we meet with is the costo-coracoid ligament; it is called also the costo-clavicular ligament, or the licjamentum hicorne; it is exceedingly variable as to size, shape, and thickness. It is attached internally by means of a strong well-marked band of fibres to the cartilage, upper edge, and outer-surface of the body of the first rib; some of its fibres pass inwards, but the greater number are directed upwards and outwards, and are implanted into the under surface of the clavicle, dividino- as It passes outwards into two layers, which enclose the subclavius muscle, and finally are inserted into the coracoid process of the scapula: the layer which covers the anterio*- surface of the muscle is much better marked than that covermg the posterior surface. Internally and externally this ligament is in general well defined, but becomes thiii and aponeurotic in the centre; its inferior edge is free, lunated, directed backwards, and corresponds with the axillary vein ; its internal extremity is sometimes described as a distinct ligament, under the name of rhomboid. It is this ligament which renders it difficult to compress the artery immediately below the clavicle. External to this ligament, and near its outer extremity we meet with the ligaments connecting the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula; these are named co«o/rf Hgamenr^'' ' conjointly named the coraco-clavicular 'l\x^\onoid is of a conical shape; its base turned "pwards, ,s attached to a tubercle on the undrsur ace of he clavicle; its apex directed downwards, is insertedTnto he posterior expanded portion of the coracoid process ; i? ^^^^^^^^ ^•^^ ^^^^-^ ^^-cends The trapezoid ligament is of a quadrilateral slmiie.76 ANATOMY. attached superiorly to an oblique line on the under surface of the clavicle, passes obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards, and is inserted into the upper surface of the coracoid process near its base. Anteriorly, these hgaments are separated by a triangular interval, filled with cellular substance, and the insertion of the subclavuis muscle; they assist in preventing displacement of the clavicle upwards, support the scapula, and prevent the neck of this bone from falling downwards when fractured. THE SCAPULO-CLATICTJLAB AETICULATION. This articulation is formed between the external end of the clavicle and the inner edge of the acromion process ; they are held together by the superior and i7iferior liga- ments, which consist of a number of fibres passing from one bone to anotlier. The articulation is lined internaUy by a synovial membrane, and is occasionally, but very rarely, iprovided with an interarticular cartilage; it belongs to the class Planiform. LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. The scapula has two ligaments attached to it, caUed the superior 2indi posterior. ,,1,1 ^.7/«,v The superior proper ligament, also called the deltoid, triangular, or coraco-acromial ligament, stretches between the coracoid and acromion processes, above and a little internal to the shoulder-joint. It is of a triangular shape, with its base attached anteriorly to the coracoid process; from this it passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted by its apex into the acromion process; its under surface corresponds with the head of the humerus with the intervention of a large bursa mucosa. . ^ . The posterior proper, or coracoid ligament, is situatea immediately behind the root of the coracoid process, from the base of which it passes backwards over the notcli in the superior costa of the scapula, and is inserted into tbe opposite edge of the notch : it converts this notch into a foramen, which is traversed by the supra-scapular nerve, whilst the artery of the same name passes in general above it; it gives origin to the omohyoid muscle, and is trequeutiy converted into bone.LIGAMENTS OP THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 77 THE SCAPDLO-HUMEKAL ARTICULATION, OR SHOULDER-JOINT. This articulation is formed by two bones, the scapula and humerus. The scapula presents for this purpose the glenoid cavity, which is superficial, but is considerably- deepened in the recent state by the cotyloid or glenoid ligament surrounding it, and by the cartilage, which is for this purpose thick at the circumference, thin in the centre. The part of the humerus which enters into this articulation is the head; this is around hemispherical convex eminence, much larger than the glenoid cavity. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. The ligaments are the capsular, the coraco-humeral or accessory, and the cotyloid ligament, lined by synovial membrane. The ca2)sidar ligament is attached superiorly around the anatomical neck of the scapula, beyond the cotyloid liga- ment ; from this it passes downwards, forwards, and out- wards, and is inserted inferiorly into the anatomical neck of the humerus descending below the tuberosities to which It IS attached ; it is much larger here than at the scapula, and hence is of a conical shape, the apex towards the scapula, the base at the humerus. This ligament is exceedingly thin anteriorly and posteriorly, but is strong towards its upper and inner part, where it is strengthened by the accessory or coraco-humeral ligament, and inferiorly towards the axilla ; externally it is closely attached to the several muscles surrounding the articulation ; it is per- forated by the long tendon of the biceps anteriorly, the sub-scapular tendon internally, and sometimes by the supra-spinatus tendon superiorly; its internal surface is lined by the synovial membrane. In order to allow of the great mobility of the articulation, it does not connect the bones closely together, but allows of their separation to the extent of at least an inch ; this occurs occasionally even in the living subject, as in paralysis of the deltoid muscle ; and, no doubt, favours dislocation. The coraco-humeral or accessory ligament is situated at the upper and inner part of the articulation ; it is attached superiorly to the outer edge and under surface of the coracoid process, directs itself downwards and outwards,78 ANATOMY. aud is implauted into tlie anterior part of the greater tuberosity of the humerus; this ligament is almost iden- tified with the capsular ligament, and appears sometimes merely as a few irregular fibres appended to it. The cotyloid or glenoid liyament is placed around the brim of the glenoid cavity, to which it intimately adheres, superiorly continuous with the long head of the biceps, by the sphtting of which it is said to be formed, or, according to some anatomists, forms this tendon; it is triangular, the base attached, the apex free; it is deeper posteriorly than anteriorly; its structure is fibro-cartilaginous, the fibres running obliquely towards the bone; its use is to deepen the glenoid cavity so as to prevent dislocation, and to give origin to the tendon of the biceps. The synovial membrane of this articulation is extensive, and rendered complicated by the passage of the tendon of the biceps, which passes through the articulation, though external to this membrane which invests it. It lines the capsular and cotyloid ligaments, covers the head of the humerus, Unes the inner surface of the tendon of the sub- scapularis and supra-spinatus; someiimes that of the infra-spinatus. As it passes to the neck of the humerus it forms folds, named retinacula. The upper part of this articulation is covered by a bursa which intervenes between it, the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco- acromial ligament; it contains much synovia, which ob- viates the effects of friction from the head of the bone pressing against these structures. The shoulder-joint belongs to the class Arthrosis, or, according to some, Euarthrosis. It is the most moveable articulation in the body, enjoying flexion, extension, ab- duction, adduction, rotation, and circumduction. This articulation is exceedingly liable to dislocation, which results from the superficial excavation of the glenoid cavity, and its small size in comparison of the head of the bone, the lax and weak state of the capsular ligament, and the extensive motions it enjoys; were it not, in fact, tor the assistance which the surrounding tendons, bones, &c., (rive to the articulation, and the great mobilily of the scapula wliich follows the head of the bone hkc a faithful friend, dislocation would be almost inevitable on the slightest exertion.79 LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. THE HUMERO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION^ OR ELBOW-JOINT. This articulation is formed by three bones ; the humerus, the ulna, and the radius. The parts of the humerus entering into it are named the capitulum, trochlea, and epitrochlea. The ulna presents the great and less sigmoid cavities, and the radius supplies its head. THE LIGAMENTS OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. The ligaments of the elbow-joint are the anterior and posterior ligaments; the internal and external lateral ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The anterior ligament is a thin weak ligament, composed of fibres loosely connected together; it commences superiorly from the surface of the lower extremity of the humerus, above the internal condyle and the anterior humeral fossa; from this its fibres descend, to be attached to the orbicular ligament of the radius ; when well marked a few fibres may be traced to the coronoid process of the ulna. Its anterior surface is covered by the brachiahs anticus muscle, to which it is connected, but not intimately, by cellular substance. The posterior ligament may be exposed by detaching from it the tendon of the triceps muscle; this must be done with care, as the ligament is exceedingly thin, and adheres intimately to the muscle; it is not so well marked as the preceding. It arises superiorly from the po'sterior surface of the humerus, around the posterior humeral fossa, passes downwards, and is inserted into the summit of the olecranon process. Its fibres are badly marked, but may be divided into two portions, a descending^ situated on the internal part of the joint, and a transverse^ which is the more distinct, and crosses between the condyles of the humerus. The external lateral ligament is intimately connected with the tendinous origins of the supinator and extensor muscles, particularly that of the supinator brevis; superiorly It IS attached to the external condyle of tiie humerus, passes downwards, expands, and is inserted inferiorly into the orbicular or annular ligament of the radius, having no connection with the bone. The internal lateral ligament is perfectly distinct, andANATOMY, 80 lies under the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the internal condyle of the humerus: from this its fibres descend in a radiated manner, and divide into two fasciculi, of which one is anterior, the other posterior: the anterior fasciculus passes downwards and a little backwards, and is implanted into the inner surface of the coronoid process of the ulna; the posterior passes almost directly backwards, and inserts itself into the side of the olecranon. On cutting into the articulation, it will be found lined by synovial membrane, which is reflected upon the ligaments just described, and also covers the neck and cup-like cavity of the radius, and then lines the orbicular ligament. The elbow-joint is a perfect Angular Ginghjmiis; its motions, therefore, are confined to flexion and extension. THE RADIO-ULNAR AKTICOLATIONS. These are two in number: the superior and inferior. The superior radio-ulnar articulation is formed between the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the Up of the radius ; one ligament alone exists here, named the orbicular or annular ligament. This is a strong resisting ligament, anteriorly attached to the edge of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; it surrounds two thirds of the head of the radius, passing also to a short extent on its neck, and is implanted posteriorly into the posterior edge of the lesser sigmoid cavity: this ligament is of a strong fibrous, or, in some instances, of a fibro-cartilaginous nature ; it has in- serted into It the external lateral ligament, and the anterior ligament of the joint; externally it is covered by the supinator brevis muscle; internally it is hned by the synovial membrane, which is continuous with that of tiie elbow-joint. This articulation belongs to the class Lateral Ginghjmus ; its motions are rotatory. Besides the Ugaments just enumerated as being con- nected with these articulations, we have the anterior oblique ligament, which cannot be classed with any par- ticular joint. The anterior oblique ligament is attached superiorly and internally to the coronoid process of the ulna, below the insertion of the bracbialis anticus muscle, descends obliquely outwards, lying internal to the biceps tendon.I EADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. and is implanted inferiorly and externally into the radius immediately below its tubercle, and separates the supinator brevis and flexor subUmis muscle: it is quite distinct from the interosseous membrane; its principal use is to prevent too great supination of the fore-arm : in pronation it is relaxed. The radius and ulna are united in the centre of the for e-arm by a strong fibrous structure, termed the inter- osseous membrane or ligament, attached externally to the inner edge of the radius; it descends obliquely from this, and is implanted into the opposite edge of the ulna; it is deficient above to a considerable extent, to give room for the origins of some of the flexor and extensor muscles, the insertion of the biceps tendon, and the transmission of the posterior interosseous artery, and also below for the passage of one of the terminating branches of the anterior interosseous artery and nerve ; in its centre it presents numerous foramina for the passage of vessels and nerves ; its anterior surface is covered by the flexor pro- fundus, flexor longus poUicis, and pronator quadratus muscles, and the interosseous artery and nerve ; its posterior surface is covered by the supinator brevis, extensores pollicis and indicator: besides giving origin to these mus- cles, it serves to connect the radius and ulna. The inferior radio-ulnar articulation is formed between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, where they are in contact: for this purpose the ulna presents a round convex surface, oblong, incrusted with cartilage, which is received into a corresponding concave surface on the radius, an arrangement precisely the reverse of that on the superior extremities of the bones. One ligament only, lined by synovial membrane, belongs to this articulation, the sacciform ligament; this envelops the articular surface of the ulna, to the edges of which as well as to those of the articular surface of the radius, it is attached ; it is exceedingly thin, lax, and weak, and is lined internally by a synovial membrane, which contains much synovia; a triangular fibro-cartilage is connected with this articulation, but more properly belongs to the wrist-joint. This articulation belongs to the%lass of Lateral Gmglymus. 4§ANATOMY. 82 THE RADIO-CARPAL ARTICULATION, OB WRIST-JOINT. This articulation is formed by four bones, the inferior extremity of the radius, and three of the first row of carpal bones, viz., the os scaphoides, os lunare, and os cuneiforme, together with the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and synovial membrane. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. The Hgaments of the wrist-joint are, the external and intertial lateral, the anterior and posterior ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The external lateral ligament is attached to the point of the styloid process of the radius; from this its fibres descend,'diverging, and are implanted infenorly into the outer surface of the os scaphoides, the os trapezium, and the anterior annular ligament: its external surface corres- ponds to the radial artery which winds round it The internal lateral ligament, not so well marked as the preceding, is attached to the point of the styloid process of the vdna, descends forwards, and is implanted into the OS cuneiforme and the os pisiforme, some of its fibres passing to the anterior annular hgament. The a7iterior ligament is an irregular set ot fibres, which descend from the lower extremity and anterior sur- face of the radius, to be attached into the anterior surface of the OS scaphoides, os lunare, and os cuneiforme. The posterior ligament, not so strong as the preceding, is attached like it to the lower extremity of the radius on its posterior surface; from this it descends, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the os lunare and os cuneiforme. , ,1-4 On cutting into the articulation we observe the inter- ai-ticular fibro-cartilage, which intervenes between the ulna and os cuneiforme. It is triangular in shape; its anex is attached internally into the depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna; it passes transversely outwards, and is implanted by its base into the ndge which separates the ulnar from the carpal articu ating surface on the radius. Its surfaces are concave, are Uued by synovial n embiane, and correspond to the ulna above the os ame orm beneath; its edges are connected to theLIGAMENTS OF THE WEIST-JOINT. 83 liganientary fibres of the articulation. Occasionally it is perforated in its centre, and then the lower extremity of the ulna comes in contact Math the os cuneiforme, in which case the ulna might be said to assist in forming the wrist-joint. The synovial membrane, lining the articulation, covers the extremity of the radius, the under surface of the fibro-cartilage, is reflected from these on the ligaments, and passes thence to line the upper surface of the three carpal bones. Connected with this articulation, but not exactly be- longing to it, are the anterwr and posterior annular liga- ments of the wrist; these are two strong fibrous membranes, situated on the anterior and posterior part of the wrist^ and surrounding it like a wring or annulus. The anterior annular ligament is placed in front of the carpal boues; externally, it is attached to the anterior surface of the os trapezium and os scaphoides, passes transversely inwards, and is attached internally to the hook-like process of the unciform bone, and sends a process to be attached to the os pisiforme: between these two portions the ulnar artery and nerve pass.' The anterior surface of this ligament is covered by the integu- ments, and is crossed by the superficialis voIec artery, and in the centre by a small branch of the median nerve; it gives origin externally to the abductor, opponeus, and flexor brevis poUicis muscles, internally to the palmaris brevis. Its posterior surface is arched, and has passing beneath it the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis, flexor profundus, flexor sublimis, and flexor longus pollicis muscles, and the median nerve: it is here lined by a synovial sheath, which envelops these tendons. Into its superior edge is implanted the tendon of the palmaris longus muscle ; from its inferior edge arises the palmar aponeurosis: its use is to form an arch for the passage of the above-mentioned parts, to protect them from iniury and to connect tlie carpal bones in the transverse direction, and thus prevent tlie arch which they form from beir 11* — I--"— - "iJiuii Luey lorm irom being obhterated, and so as not to interfere with the action of tne tendons. Hhe posterior annular ligament is not near so well marked, and appears to be merely a prolongation of theANATOMY. 84 fascia of the fore-arm, forming sheaths for the extensor tendons ; it is attached externally to the posterior surface of the radius, passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and is implanted into the posterior surface of the cuneiform and unciform hones, having httle if any connection with the ulna; by this means the hand is more intimately connected with the radius, and follows it in the motions of pronation and supination. The wrist-joint belongs to the class Arthrosis; its motions are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction. THE AUTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. The articulating surfaces of the first row of carpal bones, where they are opposed to one another, need not be minutely described; they are, in general, arthrodial or planiform, and are connected by palmar, dorsal, and interosseous ligaments ; the palmar are the best marked; their cartilaginous surfaces are lined by synovial mem- branes. The OS pisiforme is held firmly in its place by several ligaments. Superiorly the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint is attached to it, as already described. Infe- riorly, two ligaments stretch from it: one implanted into the hook-like process of the unciform boue; another, an exceedingly strong ligament, and apparently the con- tinuation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, descends from it inwards, to be inserted into the base of the fiftli metacarpal bone. A portion of the annular ligament is attached to it, and its articular surface is surrouuded by a capsular ligament, lined by synovial membrane. The articulations between the first and second rows of carpal bones are remarkable. In the centre, an enarthro- dial articulation is formed by the head of the os magnum being received into the cavity formed by the os lunare and OS scaphoides; on either side of this an arthrodial arti- culation is formed: these articulations are connected in front and behind by palmar and dorsal ligaments, laterally by expansions from the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. . The articulations between the carpal bones fornnny the second row are connected, in like manner, by dorsal andA'RTICULATIONS OP THE HAND. 85 palmar ligaments, stretching from one bone to the other. It may be perceived that several of these ligaments stretch from the anterior surface of the os magnum to the sur- rounding bones : these are to keep it firmly in its situation ; for although apparently the most secure bone of the carpus, it is most liable to dislocation, its head being thrown backwards towards the dorsum of the hand this is caused by the bone being so impacted between the others as to bear a considerable portion of any violence applied to this; and from its wedge-shape, and the apex being turned towards the palm of the hand, force applied in any direction, except directly on its base, will have a tendency to dislocate it backwards. There are five separate synovial membranes about the carpus :-1st, between the radius and the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform bones ; 2d, between the pisiform and cuneiform ; 3d, between the first and second row of carpal bones, extending to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers ; 4th, between the trapezium and metacarpal bone of the thumb; and 5th, between the unciform bone and metacarpal bones of the ring and little fingers. The carpo-metacarpal articulations are formed between the second row of carpal bones and the metacarpus ■ thev are connected by dorsal and palmar ligaments, stretching from the carpal to the metacarpal bones : of these the dorsal are the more distinct. All these articular surfaces are lined by synovial membrane. The articulation betiveen the os trapezium and the first metacarpal bone belongs to the c\&%^ Arthrosis, and pos sesses considerable motion in order that the thumb mav be enabled to oppose itself to the other fingers ; its motions are flexion, extension, lateral motion, and circumduction- Its chief security is the great strength of the muscles of The metacarpo-phalangeal articulations are formed bv the round convex head of each metacarpal bonrbeiu^ received into the concavity of the first nb ,In„v .i ^ connected by lateral ligamLts on eiu t^ t ^ZZ ligament in front, which intermingles its fibiT^ifl f?^ sheaths of the flexor tendons, ancf a" 1 .ed : ei^a yt synovial membrane. The most remarkable of T^tl^l86 AKATOM-Y. lations is that between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the corresponding phalanx, as it is tlie subject ot the dislocation which has received the name of Hey s Dislo- cation of the thumb. They belong to the class Arthrosis and possess every motion, with the exception perliaps or ^^^^\T'inter-phalangeal articulations are formed by the phalanges; the inferior extremity of each of these is Lncave fr^m side to side, convex from before backwards: the superior extremity the reverse. They are connected by lateral ligaments and an anterior hgament, resembling tliat of the preceding, lined by synovial membrane ; they belong to the class of Angular Ginglymus, and only admit ot flexion and extension. BONES OF THE HEAD. . ■ The bones of the head may be divided into those of the cranium and those of the face, including the three common to both The bones of the cranium are the /meia?, two varietal, two temporal, occipital, ethmoid, and sphenoid. ^ The bones of the face are, two malar, two s^lper^or maxillary, two nasal, two lacrymal, two inferior two palatine, the vomer, and inferior maxdlm-y The bones which may be called common to the head and face are the frontal, ethmoid, and sphenoid. Along the edges of the occipital bone there are some smtrbones, irregularly developed in some skulls, named 055a wormiana, or triquetra. OS FRONTIS. The Frontal bone in shape resembles the half of a cockle- shell, is convex anteriorly, concave posteriorly, forming the forehead, part of the base of the skull the upper por- tion of the m-bit and nose, and part of the temples. A . suture sometimes extends down its centre, separatmg it U^to two bones. Anteriorly, on each side, we observe the ftontal eminence, indicating the point of o^s.&cr^^on ^ m the centre, the nasal prominence ; and, ahtt e behind that, the na al spine; on 'each side, more laterally, the super- aUa T riJg ; the external and internal angular Focesses; ?he supra-orbital notch or foramen ; and a smaU foramenBONES OF THE HEAD. leadiug to the frontal sinus. Laterally we see the tem- poral process and part of the temporal fossa. The posterior surface, uneven, presents a ridge for the attachment of the falx major, commencing at a point where the frontal and ethmoid hones form conjointly the foramen caecum. The orbito-nasal surface presents the openings of the frontal sinuses; and laterally two grooves, which, by meeting the ethmoid bone, form the foramen orbitale internum anterius and posterius. The ^?-ocmes are nine, viz., nasal, four angular, two temporal, two orbital. The foramina are seven, five common and two proper The common foramina are the ' foramen cacum, tivo anterior internal orbital, two posterior „ The two proper are the su]}raorbital. This bone also assists in forming the foramen lacerum orbitale, named, more properly by Dr. Quain, sphenoidal hssure. Ihe frontal bone articulates with twelve bones VIZ., two parietal, ethmoid, sphenoid, two nasal, two la' crymal, two superior maxillary, and two malar. The layers of this bone are hollowed out and separated anteriorly, forming the frontal sinuses, which open into the middle meatus of the nose; these sinuses do not exist in very young subjects. The outer layer is sometimes fractured and depressed without any alarming symntoms or consequences ; but air may find its way into the cellular tissue, producing a form of emphyema. ^euujar The muscles attached to it on each side are— corrugator supercilii, orbicularis })alpebrarum temporalis, oocipitofrontatis, very slightly. OSSA PARIETALIA. The Parietal bone of each side is quadrangular, convex externally, concave mternally. The angles are four, viz.^88 ANATOMY. anterior-superior, anterior-inferior, posterior-superior, pos- terior-inferior; its edges are uamed coronal, sagittal, lam- boidal, and squamous. Externally there is a prominence about the centre, showinP- its single point of ossification; a temporal ridge forming part of the origin of the temporal muscle ; and a parietal foramen, for the transmission of a vem to the superior longitudinal sinus. Its internal surface presents a groove along the sagittal mar-in for the superior longitudinal sinus ; a ridge for the falx"^ little pits for the Pacchionian glands; arborescent erooVes for the middle meningeal artery, which commences at the anterior-inferior angle, sometimes forming a foramen; a depression near the posterior-inferior angle for the lateral sinus; and eminences and depressions corresponding with the convolutions of the brain. . Each parietal is articulated with five bones, viz , the frontal, temporal, sphenoid, occipital, and with its feUow. Muscle attached, Temporalis. OS OCCIPITIS. The Occipital bone is diamond-shaped, and consists of a broad superior portion, two condyles, and the basilar ^°?r eiSnaTposterior surface, convex, presents, the occipital protuberance, which gives attachment to the Sentuia nuch., the perpendicular spine, the superior and inferior transverse ridges, and, lower down, the occi- i for men; and on each side of this the coiidyles Sresenting ridges and inequalities laterally, m front, and behind, for the attachment of ligaments and muscles. Ju t behind the condyles are the posterior condyloid foramina, and in front the anterior condyloid foramina. The basilar process connects the occipital with the '^T^'l W surface of this bone presents the crucial spine with depressions for the superior longitudinal occi- and lateral sinuses, Nvith ridges of attachment for the ?ak niaior and minor, and tentorium; above the trans- verse ridge depressions for the cerebrum, below it for he c bel um, jugular notches, where this bone, with the89 BONES OF THE HEAD. temporal of each side, forms the jugular foramen, or foramen lacerum basis crauii posterius; a basilar sinu- osity for the pons varolii, and lateral grooves for the in- ferior petrosal sinuses. This bone is articulated with six others, viz., two parietal bones, two temporal, sphenoid, and with the first vertebra by giuglimoid articulation. The Muscles attached to this bone are, to the superior ridge, trapezius, occipito-frontalis, stemo-mastoideus. To the space between the curved lines, complexus, splenius capitis. To the space between the inferior transverse ridge and foramen magnum, recti majores and minores, obliquus capitis superior. To below the jugal eminence, recti late^-ales. To the fossa, anterior to foramen magnum, recti antici majores and minores, superior and middle constrictor pharyngis. The foramen magnum gives passage to the medulla oblongata, with its coverings, vertebral arteries, spinal arteries, and some veins and the nervus accessorius of each side. The posterior condyloid foramen (when present) transmits a vein into the lateral sinus, sometimes a small artery from the occipital; the anterior condyloid foramen transmits the hypoglossal or lingual nervethe foramen jugulare gives passage to the lateral sinus, the nervus vagus, glosso-pharyugeus and accessorius, and a branch of tlie ascendmg pharyngeal artery, OSSA TEMPORALIA. The Temporal hone consists of three portions, the pe- trous, squamous, and mastoid. The processes arc five yiz zygomatic, auchtory, vaginal, styloid, and mastoid. rhe squamous portion presents for notice a thin semi- circular edge; the zygomatic process; a tubercle; the•I 90 ANATOMY. gleuoid cavity and glenoid fissure, and grooves internally for branches of the middle meningeal artery. The petrous portion presents externally an auditory process, vaginal and styloid process, the external auditory foramen; inferiorly the carotid foramen and canal, and iugular fossa ; internally an auditory foramen, the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, superior and inferior petrosal grooves, Eustachian canal, and hiatus Fallopn. The mastoid j3?-ocm presents the stylo-mastoid foramen, mastoid foramen, (sometimes in common with the occipital bone,) digastric fossa, occipital groove, and internally a lateral groove for the lateral sinus. The temporal is connected with five other bones, viz., sphenoid, malar, parietal, occipital, and with the lower jaw bv einglymus. , , . • ,.1 The glenoid fissure transmits the chorda tympani, the tendon of the laxator tympani muscle, a small artery, and gives lodgment to the processus gracilis of the mallens. The carotic foramen and canal transmit the interna carotid artery and ascending filaments from the first cervical ^^lS°hiternal auditory foramen contains the portio moUis, portio dura, and an artery running between them ^ The aqueducts of the cochlea and the vestibule transmit veins from those parts to the lateral sinus. The petrosal grooves lodge the petrosal sinuses The hiatus Fallopii admits the petrous branch of the vidian nerve, (alias large superficial petrosal nerve.) A small foramen, posterior to the former, transmits the nervus petrosus superjicialis minor. . „„,^„ „ Between the jugular fossa and carotid foramen is a small opening for the nerve of Jacobson. , , , In a groove adjoining the Eustachian canal but sepa- rated from it by a thin osseous plate, named processus cochleariformis. is found the tensor tynipani muscle. The stylo-mastoid foramen transmits the portio dura and ^ l^e raaSofd foramen gives passage generally to a vem which enters the lateral sinus. This bone is first developed from five pomts: on. sqxiSr TTious one for the mastoid and petrous portion one tor the rseous rig of the tympanum, one for the styloid process,BONES OF THE HEAD. 91 and one for tlje zygoma. At birtli it usiialljr consists of three parts: one includes the zygoma and squamous, another the petrous and mastoid portions, and the third tympanic, surrounding the membrana tympaui. The Muscles attached to this bone are : To the zygoma Masseter. squamous part.... Temporalis. ( Retrahens aurem. I Sterno-inasloid. mastoid process . . .\ Splenius capitis. I Trachelo masioideus. L, Occipito frontalis. digastric fossa .... Digastriciis. [ Sti/lo-fflosstts. styloid process • • • •{ hyoideus. I „ pharyngeus. petrous bone at its J Levator palati. apex [ Tensor iympani. The Sphenoid bone consists of a body, great and small wings, and pterygoid processes. The cerebral surface of the body presents an ethmoid process, the olivary process, and on each side the optic foramen; behind these the sella turcica, bounded by the anterior and posterior clinoid processes; on each side, lateral grooves for the carotid artery of each side : the posterior surface is rough, to join the basilar process of the occipital bone. The ate rainores extend laterally, and partly support the anterior lobes of the brain : their pos- terior edge corresponds with the fissure of Sylvius. The alse majores have three surfaces, cerebral, orbital, and temporal; the cerebral forms part of the middle fossa of the cranium, and is marked by the convolutions of the brain and branches of the middle meningeal artery in this part we notice the foramen rotundum, the foramen ovale, the foramen spinosum, and spinous process, and projectmg mferiorly the styloid process. Laterally is the temporal surface, forming part of the temporal fossa. * ^ wafoatet^r^'"'^^ P"""^ '^™^ P^^-^ '"^^ The parts seen on the under surface are the pterygoid havi^l°;b^'r'''T' "^'^ "^^^••'^^1' i'^'ier one having the hamular process at its lower extremity; at92 ANATOMY. the root of these is the vidian or pterygoid canal, and the fossa navicularis; between them the pterygoid fossa, and the rostrum or azvgos process in the centre of the bone. Anteriorly we observe the sphenoidal spongy bones ana the openings of the sphenoidal sinuses. It is developed from seven points of ossification, ^vliicu commence in the body, the lesser wings, the roots ot the ptervsoid process, and in the internal pterygoid process ; in early fcetal life, it is divided into an anterior or spheno- orbital, and a posterior or spheno-temporal portion. At birth it consists of three parts, the body in the centre and two lateral portions, including the great wings and ptery- ^°Thn»-ocSses of the sphenoid are seventeen in number: one ethmoidal, one oUvary, four chnoid, one azygos, two spinous, two styloid, four pterygoid, and two hamuiar: some anatomists enumerate a much greater number con- sidering the wings, &c., as processes. The forammaje twelve proper and four common: the proper are two opUc two round two oval, two spinous, two vidian ^nd the t^o openings of the sinuses; the common are, two foramina lacera orbitalia, two foramina lacera anteriora in basi cranii. Besides these, the sphenoid bone forms part of the 7pZo-ma.illary fissure, which is a cleft or fissure situated in the posterior and external part of the o^^ ' and is formed by the sphenoid, malar, superior maxillary, and ^^The rotundum transmits the second division of the fifth nerve. . i.i,p fifth foramen o.fl/e transmits the third portion of the fifth nerve ^nd a small artery to the dura --t-'"J-^^^^nor meningeus parvus, and nervus petrosus ^"P^fi^''^^^^^^^^"^ The foramen spinosum transmits the middle meningeal artery. The sphenoidal fissure transmits— The motor ocuU nerve, trochlearis nerve, first branch of the fifth nerve, abducens nerve, ophthahnic vein to the cavernous sinus. The optic foramen gives passage to the optic nerve, and ophthalmic artery.93 BONES OF THE FACE. The vidian caual transmits the vidian nerve and artery. The sphenoid articuhites with twelve bones, viz., aU those of the cranium, and five of the face, viz., the two malar, two palate bones, and tlie vomer The muscles attached are— Around the foramen opticum of] ^^'^tor palpebrce superioris. each side .... r Obtiqtms superior. " ' ' J Four recti. To the external surface . . . Temporalis. external pterygoid pro- / External pterygoid. ^^^^ 1 Internal pterygoid. internal pterygoid process Superior constrictor pharvnqis fossa navicularis . . . Tensor palati. spinous process . . . Laxator tympani. Os Ethnoides.-This bone is common to the head and tace, and is of a cubical figure; it may be divided into two lateral portions with the central nasal lamella; the parts to be noticed are, the cribriform plate, with its foramina, the crista ga h, the nasal plate, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal sinuses and cells, the turbinated plates, the orbitar plates, or ossa plana. The foramina in this bone are, cribriform, for the passage of the filaments of the first pair, the ethmoidal twig of the nasal, of the fifth, and the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries ; in common with the frontal bone, the ethmoid forms the foramina orbitalia interna anteriora and pos- teriora, also named ethmoidal foramina s Jli' r?'''^ '""'^ ""-bit transmits a small artery and the ethmoidal twig of the nasal nerve of artery ' P°^*^"o^" ^ornmen only transmits a small The ethmoid is articulated with eleven bones, viz the frontal two lacrymal bones, two superior maxi laTy two palate bones two nasal bones, the sphenoid, and vomeT some anatomists also mention the infenor turb nat d bTnes' ^t^i:^' number thirteen; there are no^muS BONES OF THE FACE. OSSA NASI. .n.o, „„l„ the „,..l .pi„e, ,Licl, IrJS^.rXi94 ANATOMY. lamella of the ethmoid bone, and frequently little foramina, for the transmission of small arteries and veins. The muscles attached are— pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi. Each is articulated with four bones, viz., the frontal, superior maxillary ethmoid, and its fellow. OS MAXILLABE SUPEEIUS. The OS maxillare svperius is an irregular-shaped bone; has a body and four surfaces, named orbital, malar, nasal, aiid VakLe The orbital surface presents the mfra- orbitriroove or canal, and a fossa for the inferior oblique muscle The r,alar or external surface presents the nasa rocess the lacrymal groove, the orbital ridge the malar emTnei ;e the mllar process, tbe infra-orbital foramen; S myr iform fossa, for the depressor labn infenons ^l^Il.^; foramina, for the dental -rves and ai^ene ; at the lower margin the alveolar process, and at tlie bacR part a grlove. whicb forms part of the posterior palatine "The nasal surface presents a long ridge, by J^ch it is attached to the inferior spongy bone, a deP^e sion for die middle meatus of the nose, the opening of the lacrymal canal. The inferior surface is uneven and arched. Witmn the bone is the antrum highmoriaiium. Eacb superior maxillary bone is articulated with nine others, v z! he frontal, ethmoid, os nasi, pa ate bone, malar/os unguis, vomer, inferior spongy bone, and its f l ow Th; infra-orbitar foramen transmits the infra-orbitar ''Se"anterb7palatine foramen transmits a nerve and an artery named accordingly. The muscles attached are— r Levator labii mperioris alague naM. To the nasal process Orbicularis palpebrarum.BONES OF THE FACE. 95 Above the alveoli . J Buccinator. [ Depressor labii superioris alceque nasi. To the canine fossa . • \ Compressor nasi. \ Levator anguli oris. „ edge of orbit. . Levator labii superioris. In the orbit . . . Obliquus inferior. OS LACRYMALE. The OS lacrymale or os unguis has an external and intei-nd surface; ou the former is a ridge or spine, dividing It into the lacrymal groove and orbital surface. Internalll closes m the anterior ethmoidal cells, and forms part of the wall of the middle meatus of the nose. It is articulated mth four bones the frontal, superior maxillary, inferior tensor tarsi. OS MALARB. The Malar bone has three surfaces, the malar orbitar and temporal. The orbitar surfac^ presents a foramen, named malar, which transmits the malar nerve The processes are five, viz., ma^ary, internal orhitar superror orbUar, inferior orbitar, U zygoZL articulated with four bones, viz., the temp^fal bone tl os frontis, the sphenoid, and superior maxillary. ' ihe muscles attached are— zygomaticus major, )> minor, masseter. OS PALATI. The Palate bones are situated at the posterior nnr<- o a sides of the nares, posterior to the superirmTxXv anterior to the pterygoid processes of the sptS enter mto the formation of the roof of th. i ^''^ nose, and the orbits.. """^^h' tlie These bones consist of a nalatinp . orbitar, and sphenoidal processes ' Pterygoid, The palatine process forms part of f-l,o fl., x. and roof of the mouth ; it preTe ts int. T *^ ridge, and posteriorly the azvTos '. ^" ^l^^^^ed the nasal portion, forming paifofTbo^^T,"'/'!!"^^^-gg ANATOMY. The Pterygoid process presents two grooves and a rough ridge foSg with the mUary bone the palato-maxiUary can'ai; and generally a - .^J^'posterior part The orbitar process is small, lormmg me i Each palate bone is ^,^^ ^ ' ^£7 bone, viz., its fellow, the supenor maxillary, the spongy the sphenoid, ethmoid, and vomer. The Muscles attached to it are— azygos uvulm, internal pterygoid. VOMEU. of the nose. It lias no lorame ^„,„„,^ of the sphenoid ; " "ftrte eSZi^ao^ naXaHilage; helL to the ;£r:?d'rperi:?^-illary bones ; posteriori, its ..rgm is free. OS SPONGIOSTTM. The inferior S,o« htaed to .he ^^^^^ shell, is placed hov.zontally. " , ,;„„ ftom the inferior meatus of the ""S , 0™lap = the nasal due, ™f>%»«t ^i:' nd palate bone, and the supenor maxillary, tlie iaciyiu« , t- sometimes with the ethmoid. OS MAnLLARK INFEUIUS. The inferior Mamillary bone, is ^^"^^.^"'^^^"Jt^eral pT- of a horse-shoe, composed, originally, of two lateral p rrnaU^ert:'':rroler'.?d depressions helo.TEMPORO-MAXILLARY AKTIOULATION, 97 them, the mylo-hyoid ridge and groove, the inferior dental foramen. Along the upper margin are the alveolar pro- cesses, the coronoid processes, the sigmoid notch, the neck of the jaw, surmounted by the condyle. The foramina are two on each side, the mental and in- tenor dental, for arteries and nerves of similar names Ihis bone is articulated only with the temporal bv gingjymus. ^ The Muscles attached are : To the incisor fossa . . . Levator labii inferioris. Pvf».„oi w 1- \ Depressor labii inferioris. external oblaque line . . i „ anguli oris. I. Platysma. tubercles and below at in- J ^enio-hyoglossus. side of symphysis . . ] Genio-hyoideus. L Digastricus. mylo-hyoid ridge / ^ly^o-hyoideus. outside of the ramus .' ; ^ J^-j^eo^^M./o.^aw^ inside of the ramus . . Pterygoideus internus. the corono.d process . . Temporal muscle. to tliLllo i • Pi'^rygoideus ea^ternus. to the alveolar process . . Buccinator. THE TEMPORO-MAXILLABY ARTICULATION. This articulation is formed on each side bv the tern poral bone and the inferior maxilla; the tenLml bZ presents for this purpose the glenoid cavity aXhe ilZ verse root of the zygoma. The glenoid cavity Z cZ' directed backwards and inwards, descends lowe/internallv than externally, and is divided into two parts, an antS and a posterior non-articular by th; Gla ser/an fissure ; the former only forms the articulation and?,Ti ^ by cartilage. The part'of the inferior into the articulation s the condvle ■ if« 7 "n^u enters obUquely backwards and iZ^'so tl a^;^]l'f ^'7'^^ ;n the direction of both condyles' bLwti U rn'rat ■ cartilage,''which descSu h"^^^^^^ its'" externally it presents a tuberHp '.'""^^^^o^- surface j external lateral ligament Tt S I' ''^''''^"^ tbe neck, so that'Zre of A conTlf' '"^T^''^ T inner than on the outer side at H.^ ^ f P''J'''*' °" siae, at tlie anterior internal part 598 ANATOMV. of the neck is a depression, which gives insertion to the external pterygoid muscle. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE TEMPORO-MAXTXLAKY ARTICULATION. The ligaments of the temporo-maxillary articulation are the exter nal lateral the mternal lateral, and the e«i..u/ar; in its interior it possesses an inter-articular c^vUl^^^, and s 1 n d by synovial membrane; besides these hgamen s here are the itylo-maxillary and inter-maxillary, yliich, although no? immediately connected with the articulation, '^^^^i-U.ament is situated behind the masseter muscle, overlapped by a part « t^e par^t^d dand- it ames from the tubercle on the outer extremity of ?he' ransverse root of the zygoma, passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the outer extremity and side of the condyle and neck of the lower jaw. ^Tinternal lateral ligament is not closely connected with the articulation. It arises narrow and pointed from Th sptou pro ess of the sphenoid bone, passes down- aown d piui 5 surface corresponds to the groove and "^'"''J '^'X^^^^ muscle, and is its inner surface corresponds to the mternal pteiygo muscle and gustatory nerve. The capsular ligament or ^"''^ ;X^^^:e"o th marked ; %eno;-^2/ it is attached to the edge ot tne Slasseri^n fissure, around the articukr surface of the glenoid cavity, and transverse root of the zj-goma, passes downwards, ^attaches itself to tbe fibro-cartilage and s insertld in o the condyle of the lower jaw, beneath i s Sclr surface. It is deficient in^en.a /^/. where U is99 THE TEETH. inserted into the inner edge of the angle of the lower iaw be ween the internal pterygoid and masseter muscles, and between the parotid and sub-maxillary glands ; it gives an ongin to the sty o-glossus muscle, and has at^achld to S the cervical fascia, with which it is continued on, or ac- cording to some, from which it is formed. The inter-maxillary ligament is a weak indistinct liga- rnent, which arises superiorly from the lower extremity of the internal pterygoid plate, descends, and is inserted into }L tT, T'^^' '^"'^ of the coronoid pro- cess, behind the last molar tooth. It gives origin to the buccinator muscle anteriorly, the superior confSctor of tne pharynx posteriorly. tila^/e Tifli -'Z^' articulation, the inter-articular car- tilage and synovial membrane will be exposed. ine mter-articular cartilage is a thin olate nf fihm cartilage, placed between thf bones, aTd «L the' synovial membrane into two sacs rf« ^^^^^^^^ thicker flmn fK. T , circumference, hrerternal laternri """'^^^^ ^« ^^^ernallj; the externa n p "^^'^M internally and anteriorly, ratPrlS Pt^i-ygoid muscle; posteriorly, it is perfo b ce L"rd™?herrh^^= '--times^erforat^dt ine centre, and then the two synovial sacs communicate two 7:::t t'-t ^v^v^^'^'"'^*-'^ divided -nto lini fi ^ the inter-articular cartilage; the superior lines the glenoid cavity, the transverse root of 7l.T lUrtl "-'i'^^ "PP^^ ''^'''^ of theTnter-airularL^^^^ age; the inferior coders the under surface of Z« hf;er:h'r"; ^^^^ -ndyrSd 2 Lcendr'n the neck, which it covers more posteriorly than anteriorlv THE TEETH. jaw, but varies i„ ,„me indiVidnlll'^ J ' Mol> twe„.,-dgh,, each tool" c„lS'„'';7,,r7'''"'' ae^tuto of peE,arrb;Sef, tKS100 ANATOMY. is the contracted part immediately beneath the body, and which is surrounded by the gums; the fang ov fangs are those processes which are sent down into the alveoU ana bv means of which the teeth are firmly held in situ, bach tooth contains in its interior a canal, which commences at the root of the fang by a very minute ^P^^ture, and from this passes up into tlie body where it is largest; this cavity a imes somewhat the shape of the tooth, and possesses a distinct process from each fang that it -^y ^^^^ is smooth internally, and contains a soft ^^^b'-an^ pulpy substance, termed the pulp of the tooth. this is LppLd with vessels and nerves, although the latter can- not be traced into the body or crown. The crown of the tooth is uncovered by periosteum, but the remaining par J possess this covering from the "^^^^^ downwards : thi^^^^^ connected also with the socket of the tooth which it hues , at the neck it is firmly attached to the gums The teeth of each jaw in the adult are divided into— four incisors, two cuspidati or canine, four bicuspidati, six TOolares or grinders. The indsors are placed in the centre of the aws and are the only teeth of which the body is fla teiied; the fong is single, and marked laterally by a longitudinal Sve flatLed in a contrary direction to the crown, Sl^'latally, .hilst its -terior and po^^^^^^^^^^^ are narrow ; the enamel is thickest antenoilj t^e ^n^^^o^ of the upper iaw are larger than those of the lo^^r, tne ?wo miidle ar^e the largest, their fangs are -Jher round^^^^ and they project more in front so as to ovcrla the m dei ones - the middle incisors of the lower jaw are the smallest, the lateral ones larger. , The cuspidati or canine teeth are placed one on eacli side external to the incisors; they possess ^Ja^g;/"^ long fang, which causes a remarkable prominence on e outer surface of the alveoli, and extends J-p l Uo the hone- the body or crown is conical, with the apex tree, c n":;x,td pr'ojecting anteriorly beyond the ot^^r ee h particularly in the lower jaw; those o^ ^^^^ ^JJ. L much larger than those of the lower; tbeir fangs pro ject^igl>er in the superior maxilla than any of the other ♦THE TEETH. 1Q| teeth, heuce they are sometimes called the eye-teetli; the free extremity corresponds with the interval between the lateral incisors and the first bicuspid of the lower jaw. The bicuspidati or small molars are placed two on each side, between the preceding and the molares; their body long from before backwards, compressed laterally, terminates in two tubercles, separated by a depression • the anterior of these is the larger and more projecting,' and nearly conceals the other; as it approaches the fang It becomes smaller, and has its eiiamel terminating equally all round; the fang is broad and compressed, deeply grooved laterally, and terminates sometimes, and more frequently in the upper jaw, in a double fang. Those of the upper jaw are broader and flatter than those of the lower ; their fangs contain a double cavity, even when a single one exists, one towards each margin. These teeth are more frequently wanting than any other, except the dentes sapientise. The molares or grinders are three on each side • the hrst and second resemble one another, the third differs trom these: they possess the greatest number of points or prominences on their body, and the greatest number of tangs. Iheir body or crown is commonly marked by five prominences, (although it sometimes possesses but four or even three,) three external and two internal • the ex- ternal of these are the most projecting and least on a line with the surface of the tooth; between these prominences there is an irregularly depressed surface; the body con- tracts but httle towards the neck, and terminates by di- viding into two, three, four, or five fangs, most frequently three, two being external and one internal, all of which possess an opening at their summit, leading into the cavity of the tooth; the enamel covers more of the free ha„ their lateral surfaces. The first molar tooth is the largest and strongest; its crown possesses five tube cles Its fangs m the upper jaw are three in number; I t fi' srse C°ort'"" rV^^ 'T''^'-' itsometime"fp : sesses tour or five : the fangs of this tooth in the Iow.t jaw are most frequently double, and are plac d aci^ss The alveoh, 80 that one is posterior to the ither each fan^ rr^othisTSr T^'^ molar tooth is a little smaller than the preceding; it.s102 ANATOMY. crown possesses but four tubercles in the lower jaw; its fangs are as the preceding, three in the upper, two in the lower jaw ; the external fangs of both teeth are nearly vertical, whilst the internal, stronger, diverges from them internally, so as to afford considerable resistance to the extraction of the tooth, and frequently to cause a fracture of the alveoli. The third molar tooth is the smallest and most irregular; its crown possesses three or four tuber- cles ; it possesses one, two, or three fangs, most frequently one in the lower jaw ; they are shorter than those of the preceding, and do not diverge to the same extent: they are directed forwards, so as to support the second molar tooth : this tooth in the upper jaw is smaller than that of the lower, hence the two rows of teeth meet exactly at the posterior extremity. The last molar teeth have received the name of denies sapientice, from their not appearing till the age of about twenty-one ; they decay shortly after their appearance and are often wanting. Structure.—The teeth are composed of three substances, the enamel, the ivory of the tooth now named dentine, and the crusta petrosa. The enamel is that white substance which covers the teeth where they are exposed, and is the hardest structure in the human body, producing sparks with steel: it is of a milk white colour, and is capable of a high degree of polish; it appears to be one uniform mass, but is com- posed of fibres which are placed perpendicularly, some to the centre, and some to the surface of the bony portion, in order that they may better resist the effects of friction, it is thickest where most exposed : the enamel is not vas- cular, and is perhaps the least organised structure in the living body; its chemical composition is the same as that of the bony portion, except that it contains more phosphate and fluate of lime and only a trace of animal matter. The detitine forms the bulk of the teeth ; is of great hardness; and is now described to be tubular in structure : for when carefully examined by the aid of the microscope, it exhibits an immense number of minute tubes, running through a compact substance, and generally taking an oblique, sometimes horizontal, and even perpendicular direction, from the interior of the tooth towards its surface. They are filled with earthy matter.103 GROWTH OF THE TEETH. The criosta petrosa is of the character of true bone, and covers all that part of the tooth which is not invested with enamel; it contains cells and canaUculi, like ordinary bone. Its use is to fix the teeth in their sockets, and it is considered to be the seat of bony growths which some- times occur about the teeth. GROWTH OF THE TEETH. The lower jaw and alveolar processes are very early developed in the foetus, being called into exercise im- mediately after birth. About the third or fourth month of foetal life there exists in each jaw, instead of alveoli, a longitudinal groove, deep and narrow anteriorly, shal- lower and wider posteriorly, divided by bony ridges into superficial depressions, along the bottom of which run the dental vessels and nerves; after a short time processes are sent across from one edge of the groove to the other, so as to completely divide it into distinct cavities, and form the alveoli; these grow with the teeth, or even advance more rapidly, and at last nearly enclose them, becoming contracted towards their mouths; in these depressions, about the third or fourth month, soft vascular substances^ termeA pulps, begin to be formed, on which the bony part of the tooth is afterwards to be deposited ; they are not distinct so early, but become so about the fifth month, when four or five pulps are manifest; the pulps of those teeth which appear first are first formed, viz., the middle incisors, then the lateral incisors and small grinders, and last the cuspidati and large grinders, no bicuspids existing in the temporary teeth; each pulp in shape resembles the body of the tooth which is to be formed on it : it 18 soft and vascular, particularly where it is in contact with the part of the tooth deposited, so much so that it may be here deeply coloured with injection ; on the free surface of the pulp, ossification commences bv as many points as there are prominences on each tooth, there being three in the incisors, one in each of the cuspidati, four or five in the molars and two in the bicuspids when they are forniing : these diff-erent points afterwards coalesce ; the ossification proceeding from without inwards, that part which 18 first formed is the most external, and is in Jon-ANATOMY. 104 tact with the enamel; in this way ossification proceeds, until it is so far advanced that it contracts the si^e of the pulp, and at last completely surrounds it, except at its base, leaving, in this manner, the cavity already described as existing in eacli tooth ; the adhesion of the pulp to the newly-formed tooth is but sUght, as they can be easily separated without injuring any apparent vascular con- nection. At first the body of the tooth alone is formed, when this is completed it begins to contract, and becomes somewhat rounded, forms the neck, and from this then the fang or fangs commence; these form by the elon- gation of the pulp, and the deposit of bony matter on it, and at last increase to such an extent as to cause the ele- vation of the body of the tooth above the gum, the alveoli at the same time contracting so as to embrace the fang; as ossification proceeds, the extremity of the ossified part is thin, elastic, and transparent, and has received the name of substantia cornea; when one fang alone is formed the pulp sends down but one process ; when two or more fangs are to be formed, a like number of processes elongate from the body of the pulp, which are afterwards separated hv bony partitions, sent across from the bony margin ot the cavity in the body of the tooth. When the tooth first appears through the gum, it is very imperfect in structure, its fang is but badly developed, and its cavity is large. In this way the bony part of the tooth is formed on the pulp, but how deposited is not perhaps to be explained. The enamel is deposited in a different manner; tor this purpose the pulp is enclosed by a membrane, divided into as many bags or cells as there are teeth forming at the time ; they are of a whitish appearance externally, but very vascular internally, and are termed the capsules It is tlie inner surface of these which secretes the enamel, its outer surface adhering firmly to the gum. This membrane deposits the enamel shortly after the tooth begins to be formed, in greatest quantity where most is required, as mentioned in the description of the teeth ; it is at first soft moist, and rough, but when it has acquired the tul degree of thickness, it assumes its natural shining and polished appearance; it is completed when the tooth .appears through the gum. At this time the capsule having performed its office loses its vascularity, becomes absorbedGROWTH OF THE TEETH. 105 do as to alJow of the exit of the tooth, and finally descends so as to form the periosteum of the fang, and becomes adherent to it. The teeth which are first formed, and which appear shortly after birth, are termed the temporary or deciduous teeth, because, at about the age of seven or eight, they fall out, and are replaced by the adult or permanent set: there are ten temporary teeth in each jaw, viz. four incisors, two cuspidati. four molares or grinders. The time at which they cut through the gum is variable, but they generally appear in the following order, com- mencing about the skth or seventh month after birth : the middle incisors of the under jaw, the middle of the upper, the under lateral incisors, the upper lateral incisors, anterior molars or grinders of under jaw, anterior of upper, the cuspidati and first those in the lower jaw, the posterior or larger grinders. Their appearance is completed about the second or third year, some weeks or months generally elapsing between The formation of the permanent teeth is precisely the same as that of the temporary, viz., by the production of pulps and capsules; the pulps which form them are derived trom those of the temporary teeth which send prolon-nations or processes backwards from their posterior surface for their formation, with the exception of the permanent molares; these, from having no temporary teeth to corres pond with, as the bicuspids take the place of the temporary molares are produced from pulps formed for them Zl which have no connection, as is generally thought \S the pulps already formed. The connection between the pulps of the temporary and permanent teeth k at firs ntimate, being both contained in the same socke • af cording as they advance, however, they separate and th. permanent teeth are lodged in distincf bony cells wh ib are situated below and behind the temporary cells'il th. mfenor maxilla; above and behind theS in ti supe„o^ 5§106 ■ ANATOMY. ossitication has commenced on them about the age of six or seven months, and their formation is considerably advanced when the temporary incisors have «PPeared: thev gradually increase in size until the temporal y teetli arfshed to mike room for them, by the gi-adual absorpUoa of their fangs, and the consequent loss of connection with U.e alveoliT the dentes sapienti. being the last form d not commencing till the eighth or ninth year. From the nrecednm- description it may be seen that the number of S rmed and forming in the jaws at different periods s variable- at the time of-birth, each jaw contains the ^d ment: of the ten temporary teeth the ^^^-o. ^t xnolares and incisors, if not cuspidati; tlie S^e^ ^^^^ exists about the age of six years, just before ^^^^f^f^'^^'^S of the temporary set, each jaw then '^^'^''Zlt sTl^Tr^^ teeth, viz., both the temporary and permanent ^^t, except the dentes sapienti^; and in some cases ^h^^^; permanent teeth do not appear in the ^^me o^^^^T^ temnorarv: the a7itenor molares appear fii>.t, then tue Tidle lLr rncisors; -xt, the .i./^/. of the after these the lateral incisors appear, ^^^^^^^f^"^ the lower the temporary molares ^^1^ before cuspidati, and their place ^"Pf f t .nn^aTat; shortly after these, and frequently before the appearance 0 the^ second bicuspid, cuspidati appear ; the middle ;«.irLza,.. appear next, and the dentes sapienti. last of all. THE OS HYOIDES The OS hyoides is placed in the anterior and jper of the neck, having no osseous '^^""^^^^I^^ifJ.^eave bone- it is somewhat arched, convex anteiioily, conca^e po teriori and is divided into f -'-'7.'^[t^Ss ii The 6ocz/occupies the central part and is the largest ' is quadrilateral. Its anterior surface, convex, ^« divided by a horizontal ridge, most pro«^t ^n the centre 1^^^^^ two portions, which are subdivided into t^^■o bj^ a entra vertical ridge -these give attachment from belo^ up^^ards \Te dUtric, stylohyoid, mylo-hj'oid. ^-^T^J'^^:^ genio-hyo-glossus -"-^f ^^-^o S ^dlular irSS^IX^fTE^Si-^^its.^^THE OS HrOIDES. 107 edge gives attachment anteriorly to the sterno-hyoid, omo- hyoid, aud thyro-hyoid muscles, and behind these to the thyro-hyoid ligament; its superior edge gives origin to the hyo-glossus muscle; at either extremity it presents a convex cartilaginous surface, by which it is joined to the cornua. The cornua are two in'number, one on each side; they are longer, but not so strong as the body; at their anterior extremity they are marked by a concave articular surface, where they are connected to the body; from this they pass upwards and backwards, becoming graduallv smaller, and terminate in a small round head covered bv cartilage. Superiorly they give attachment to the hyo- glossus and middle constrictor of the pharynx , inferiorly to the thyro-hyoid membrane; externally, to the thyro- hyoid and digastric muscles ; internally, they are covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The appendices or lesser cornua are pjTamidal in shape; they pass upwards and backwards from near the junction of the body and great cornua, and terminate posteriorly in a point ■ thev give attachment inferiorly to the genio-hyo-glossus muscle ; superiorly, to the stylo-hyoid ligament. The structure of the os-hyoides is chiefly spon-y, but the cornua possess more compact tissue; it is developed by hve points of ossification, one for each of its pieces which m advanced life become united, so as to form but one bone. The articulations of the os hyoides consist of those between its different pieces just described, and which possess unimportant ligaments, and are lined by synovial membrane: they disappear in advanced life. It is con nected to the temporal bone by means of the stylo-hyoid ligament, which arises narrow and pointed from the styloid process of the temporal bone, descends forwards and nwards becoming expanded, and is inserted into the lesser coruu of the os hyoides. This is exceedingly variable as 0 ize and is sometimes converted into bone, when the stj^oid process appears to be elongated as fa as t^e o108 MUSCLES. MUSCLES OF THE CEA.KIAL BEGION. OcciPiTO-FRONTAiis. Origin. Two external thirds of tlie su- perior transverse ridge of tlie occipital bone and posterior and external part of mastoid process of temporal bone. Insertion. Integuments ot the eyebrows, the fibres blending with those of the corrugator su- percilii and orbicularis palpebra- rum, and by a slip named pyra- midalis nasi, to the nasal bones and internal angular process ol the OS frontis. TJs^. To elevate the eyebrows, make tense the upper eyehd, corrugate the forehead in a transverse direction, and to move the scalp forwards or backwards. MUSCLES OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. SuPEKiou AuEis. Or. Cra- nial aponeurosis above the ex- ternal ear. Ins. Upper and anterior part of the cartilage of the ear. Use. This muscle, also named attollens aurem, raises the carti- lage, and thus deepens its cavity. Anteeior Atjeis. Or. Pos- terior part of the zygomatic pro- cess and cranial aponeurosis. Ins. Anterior part of the helix. Use To draw the ear for- wards and somewhat upwards. It is named aUraliens aurem. PosTEEiOE Atjeis. Or. Mas- toid process, above stemo-mas- toid muscle. Ins. Back part of the conclia. Use To draw the ear back- wards. It consists of two or three bundles of fibres, and is also named retrahens or reira- henies aurem. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. Oebiculaeis palpebearum. Or. Internal angular process of the OS frontis and upper edge of the tendo-oculi. Ins. Nasal process of the su- perior maxillary bone and in- ferior edge of the tendo-oculi. Use. To close the eyelids, press the tears towards the puueta, depress the eyebrow, raise the check, and slightly to compress the lacrymal sac. Tensor Taksi. Or. Posterior edge of OS unguis. Ins. Lacrymal ducts as far as the puncta.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 109 Use To compress the lacry- mal sac and caruneula, and to draw the puucta closer to the eye. It is also named Dr. Horner's muscle. • CORRUGATOK SuPEECLLn. Or. Internal angulai- process of os frontis. Ins. Middle of the eyebrow, its fibres blending with the oc- cipito frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum. Use. To approximate the two eyebrows, and thus throw the foreliead into vertical wrinkles. Pteajubalis Nasi arises from the occipito-frontalis muscle, and is indeed part of it; it descends along the nasal bones to the com- pressor nasi muscle, mto wliich it is inserted; it is sometimes wanting. CoiLPEESsoR >-ASi. Or. Ca- nine fossa in the superior maxilla. Lis. Dorsum of the nose. Use. To compress the carti- lages of the nose, or to draw them laterally. Letaiok labu superioeis ALiQUE NASI. Or. The upper extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Ins. Ala nasi, the upper lip, and orbicularis oris muscle. Two other small muscles are described on each side of the nose, but are very indistinct, and sometimes requiring the aid of a lens. They are named di- lators of the ala of the nose, and may be thus described: Levator proprius ala nasi an- terior, alias Dilatator narium anterior, arises from the upper border of the alar cartilage, and IS inserted below into the skin at the margin of the nostril. Levator propriiis ala nasi pos- terior, also named Dilatator na- rium posterior, arises from the margin of the superior maxillary bone and the sesamoid cartUages, and is inserted into the integu- ment at the lower and back part of the ala of the nose. LeVATOE LaBII SUPERIOEIS PEOPEius. Or. Broad from the lower margin of the orbit above the infra-orbital foramen. Ins. Upper lip. Zygomatictjs minor. Or. Upper part of the malar bone. Lis. Upper lip, near the com- missure, sometimes wantbg. Use. To raise the upper lip, as in smiling and laughing. Ztgomaticus jiajor. Or. Lower part of the malar bone, near the zygomatic suture. Ins. The angle of the mouth. Use. To raise the angle of the mouth in the same cases as the former. Levatoe anguli oris. Or. Canine fossa below infra-orbital foramen, above the alveolus of first molar tooth. Lis. Tlie commissure of lips and the orbiculaiis oris. Depressor labu supeeioris ALSQUE NASI. Or. The myrti- form fossa, and alveoli of canine and incisor teeth, of superior maxiUa. Integuments of the upper hp and the fibro-cartilage of the septum and ala nasi. Depressor anguli oris. Or. External oblique line on the lower jaw, extending from the antenor edge of masseter to the mental foramen. It is also named triangularis oris.ANATOMY. 110 Tns. Commissure of the lips Depbessos labii inferioris. Or. Side and front of tlie lower maxilla, above its base. Ins. Half of the lower lip and the orbicularis oris. Levator labii inferioris. Or. Alveoli of the incisor teeth of lower jaw, by the side of the symphysis. Ins. The integuments of the chin. Use. To raise the lower iip, and from raising the chin is also named levator menti. Orbicularis oris surrounds the mouth by two flesliy fasci- culi. Its fibres blend with those of the several muscles inserted into the lips. Use. To approximate the lips, close the mouth, and antagonise the other muscles, BucciKATOR. Or. The last two alveoli of the superior maxilla and external surface of posterior alveoli of the lower maxilla, also the inter-maxUlary ligament. Ins. Commissure of the lips. Use. To press the cheek against the teeth, to diminish the cavity of the mouth, and to draw back the angle of the mouth. It is perforated by the stenonian duct. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. Masseter consists of two TEMPOiiALis. Or. Side of „„fr;^,r. cranium, beneath semicircular ^ Anierior vortion. Or. Sn- ridge on parietal bone, temp^^^^^^^ perior maxilla, where it joins [o^^^'aponeurosis the nab^ the malar bone, and from the bone and mside of zygomatic inferior edsre of the latter. arch. Ins. Outer surface of the Ins. The coronoid process of ano-le of the lower jaw, the inferior maxilla, as far as the la^t fibres passhig downwards and -o^;/oo^h.^^.^^ ^^^^^ .^^^ '''T^tportion. Or.Mse it somewhat forward^^^^^^^^ of the malar bone and zygo- backwards, and by its lowe^ matic arch of the temporal transverse hbres may assist in bone as far as the glenoid its rotation. Done as at. b Pterygoideus internus. Or. Us. External side of the Iimer side of the external ptery- ano-le and ramus of the lower gold plate and pterygoid process S Some of these fibres pass of the palate bone, occupymg downwards and forwards, so pterygoid fossa. that the two portions of this Im. Inner side of the angle muscle dccussitc each other, of the jaw, and mto the rough Use To raise the lower jaw, surface above it. the anterior fibres acting alone, Use. Separately to rotate the Si draw the jaw forwards and iaw carrying it to the other side; uiwXthe posterior ones up- Ui acting with the oj^posite wards and backwards. muscle to raise the lower jaw.Ill MUSCLES OF THE XECK. PlERrGOIDEUS EXTEKXrS. Or. Outer side of the external pterygoid plate, and from the crest on the great aia of the sphenoid bone. Ins. Into the anterior and internal part of the neck of the lower jaw, the inter-articular cartilage, and inferior synovial membrane. Use. To rotate the lower jaw, carry it forwards, and to draw forwards the inter-ar- ticular cartilage, one alone act- ing, moves the jaw towards the opposite side. MUSCLES ON THE ANTERIOR AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE NECK. PLATTS5IA--MT0IDES. Or. The cellular membrane covering the upper and outer part of the del- toid and great pectoral muscles. Im. The chin, the fascia along the side of the lower jaw, and the fascia covering the parotid gland. Some of its fibres ascend to blend with the depressor an- guli oris, the zygomatic and or- bicularis palpebrarum. Use. To depress the angle of the mouth and lower jaw, to steady the head in carrying heavy weights upon it, an^ to compress and to biud down the soft parts of the side of the neck. Sterno-cleido mastoideus. Or. Tendinous from upper and anterior part of the first bone of the sternum, and fleshy from sternal thurd, sometimes half of the clavicle. In.%. Upper part of the mas- toid process and external third of the superior transverse ridge of the occi])ital bone. Use. The anterior fibres -will turn the face to the opposite side, the posterior fibres will draw the head towards the chest; the two muscles will bring the head forwards, but if the ex- tensor muscles of the neck be in action, thej may carry the head stdJ further backwards, as in tetanus. Sterno-htoideus. Ot. Pos- terior surface of the first bone of the sternum, the cartilage of the first rib, the sternal end of cla- vicle, and the sterno-clavicidar capsule. Ins. The lower border of the body of the os hyoides. U.ie. To depress the os hy- oides, and with it the larynx. The sterno-hyoid muscles con- verge towards each other. Sterno-thtroibeus. Or. Posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and the cai-tilage of the second rib. Ins. Oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To depress the larynx. The sterno-thyroid muscles di- verge sUghtly from each other. Osio-HToiDErs. Or. Behind the semi-lunar notch in the supe- nor costa of scapula, from the bgament which passes over the notch, from the base of the cora- coid process, and sometimes from the acromial end of the clavicle. Ins. Lower border of the os hyoides, at the junction of its body and the great cornu. Use. To depress the os hy- oides, and draw down the larynxANATOMY. 112 nud pharynx, and, according to Mr. Skey, is useful in the act of sucking. DiGASTKic. Or. A groove in the OS temporis, internal to the mastoid process. Ins. A rough depression on the inner side of the base of the jaw, near the symphysis. Use. To raise the os hyoides and draw it either backwards or forwards, and when this bone is fixed it depresses the lower jaw. The central' tendon perforates tlie stylo-hyoid muscle, and is attached to the cornn of the os hyoides by a strong fascia. Mylo-htoideus. Or. Mylo- hyoid ridge on the inner surface of side of the inferior maxilla. Im. Body of os hyoides, and middle tendinous line common to it and its fellow. . Use. To raise the os hyoides and press the tongue upwards, or depress the lower jaw. Genio-hyoideus. Or. inner side of the chin, above the digas- tricus. , ., Ins. Body of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the os hyoides upwards and forwards, to helj) in protruding the tongue, and to depress the lower jaw when the hyoid bone is fixed. Hyo-glossus. Or. Coniu and part of the body of the os hyoides. Ins. The side of the tongue, along its entire length. Use. To depress the side ol the tongue, and make its surface convex. . Genio-hyo-glossus. Or. Emi- nence inside the chin, below the frsenum luiguse. Ins. Tiie mesial line of the tongue from its apex to its base, and into the body and lesser cornn of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the os hyoides, and protrude the tongue; but some of the fibres can retract, others in the middle render it concave: it may also depress the lower jaw. . LiNGTJALis consists of fasci- culi of fibres, running from the base to the apex of the tongue, and lying between the genio-hyo- glossus and the hyo and stylo- glossi. Use. To shorten the tongue. STYLOID MUSCLES. Stylo-hyoibetjs. Or. The outer side of the styloid process, near its base. Ins. Cornu and body of the OS hyoides, aud into the fascia connecting the tendon of the di- crastric to this bone. ° Use. To draw the os hyoides upwards and backwards. Stylo-glossus. Or. Styloid process, near the tip, aud the stvlo-maxillary ligament. Ins. Side of the tongue, as far as the tip. Use. To draw the tongue upwards and to one side, and to raise the apex of the tongue behind the upper incisor teeth. ^ • . Stylo-i'Haryngexjs. Or. Jiack part of the root of the styloid ^^^S^^" Side of pharynx, the cornu of the os hyoides, aud thy- roid cartilage. Use. To raise the pharynx, dilate it, and draw it forward.MUSCLES or THE PHARYNX AND SOFT PALATE. 113 MUSCLES OP THE PHARYNX. The muscles of the pharynx and the basilar process of the are described from below up- occipital bone, wai-ds, in consequence of the Use. To dilate the pharynx inferior being most superficial; and to raise it as it receives the the middle next, and the supe- food from the surface of the nor deepest. The styio-pha- tongue. ryngeus muscle has been just CoxXstrictor phakynws su- described, and classed with the perior. Or. Petrous portion of styloid muscles The remaining temporal bone, lower part of the muscles are called constrictors, internal pterygoid plate and ha- and are three in number. mnlar process of the sphenoid ^^!\™<^i« If- also from inter-m'axiUary Im' o n ' tx^^ ^\ the posterior third of ciicoid cartdage, the inferior the mylo-hyoid ridge, and side of cornu and posterior pai-t of the the base of the tongue 7-^ Xwir^ 'ff''^^- , ^^^^^ Pro-^ess of occi- Ins With Its fellow, along pital bone and mesial line of mesial Ime on the back of the pharynx. P p^"^- Use. The cliiefuseofthis as Bins S'rTn'^r'^'r """^'^ muscles, is to ?f t he n ■ LnT ^'^'^.^PPe^t^ coiitraet the tube of the pharynx hto d and tl r £n-^t° ''^Y ^^^^'^f ^^i^ely from above doW- nyo d and thyio-hyoid ligaments, wards, in the passage of the Ins. Mesial tendinous line, food. MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. Ihe palate contains the five following muscles on either side. Levator Paiati. Or. Pe- trous portion of temporal bone mlront of tlie foramen caroticum and behind Eustachian tube. Ins. Broad, into the velum. Teusor, vel cikcumplexus PALATI. Or. Possa navieularis at the root of iulerual pterygoid plate, and fore part of Eustacliian tube; its tendon turns round the liamular process (hence called circumflexus palati). his By a broad expausion terior nillar^nTti^n Toi"? " ins. Ihe side of the tongue Use. To render the velum tense when drawn up by tiie former muscle. MoTOREs uvuLiE, called also azygos inula;, in consequence of both muscles running close to each other. Or. Posterior ex- tremity of the spine of the palate bones. Ins. Cellular tissue of the uvula. Use. To elevate and shorten tue uvula. Palato-glossus forms the au- Or.114 ANATOMY. Use. To depress the velum or raise the edge of the tongue, and to constrict the isthmus of the fauces. Palato-phabyngetjs forms the posterior pillar of the palate. Or. Inferior surface of the pa- late. , , Ins. Side of the pharynx, and the side of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To depress the velum, or to raise the pharynx. MUSCLES OF THE LABYKX The muscles of the larynx are symmetrical, and are situated on its front, sides, and back part. There are two on the fore part, viz. thyro-hyoid and crico-thy- roid. Two laterally, viz. thyro- arytenoid and lateral crico-ary- tenoid. Two posteriorly, viz. arytenoid and posterior cnco- arytenoid. THYRO-HTOinEUS. Or. Ub- lique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. ^Ins. Lower edge of the cornu of the os hyoides. Use. To raise the larynx aud carry it forwards; and also to depress and fix the os hyoides. Ckico-thyroidetjs. Or. Tore- part of the cricoid cartilage. Ins. Lower border of the thy- roid cartilage. Use. To approximate tlie two cartilages, and, according to some, to dilate the rima glot- tidis, and to stretch the chords vocales. Thyko-abytenoideus. Or. Posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near its angle. Ins. Anterior edge of tlie arytenoid cartilage. • Use. To contract the rima fflottidis antcro-postcriorly, aud to relax the vocal chords. ClUCO-ABYTENOIDEUS LATE- UALis. Or. Upper edge of the side of the cricoid cartilage. Ins. Base of the arytenoid cartilage. Use. To contract the nma glottidis from before back- wards, but dilate it from side to side. CKICO-AKYTENOrDETJS POSTI- CUS. Or. Depression on the pos- terior surface of the cricoid car- tilage. „ , , f Ins. Outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Use. To dilate tlie rrma glot- tidus. AnYTENOiDEtrs fills the in- terval between arytenoid carti- lages, and consists of two sets of fibres: oblique, which run from apex of one cartilage to base of opposite one; and transverse, which are attacheil to posterior surface of each car- tilage. . Use. To approsunate the ary- tenoid cartilages, and contract the rima glottidis. Two other small muscles are described now by some anato- mists as belonging to the larynx, and are named thyro-epiglotti- deus, and arytcuo-epiglottideus. TllYRO-EPIGLOTTlDEUS. Ur. inside of thyroid cartilage, near its flUErlc Ins. To the side of the epi- glottis. , ,, ■ Use. To draw down the epi- glottis during swallowing.DEEP M0SCLES OF THE XECK. 115 Akttxxo-epiglottideus. Or. From the arrtenoid cartilage, and aryteno-epiglottidean mem- brane. Ins. The side of the epiglottis. Use. To depress the epiglottis, and to compress the walls of the sacculi together, hence named by ^r. Hilton, compressor sac- culi hryngis. , DEEP MUSCLES ON ANTERIOR AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE NECK. Which lie close to the vertebra, and are exposed br remorai«^ the pharynx, larynx, and ceryical yessels and neryes. ° LosGus COLLI. Or. Bodies of three superior dorsal and four inferior ceryical yertebra, from the mteryertebral ligaments, the head of the first rib,^and the an- terior tubercles of the transyerse processes of the third, fourth, filth, and sixth ceryical yer- tebrse. Ills. Tore part of the first, second, and third ceryical yer- tebne. I'ie. To bend the neck to- wards one side, and rotate the atlas on the dentata: both will draw the neck forwards. Rectus capitis iXTicrs ma- jor. Or. Anterior tubercles of transyerse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cerrical vertebrae. Basilar process of the occipital bone. Cse To bend the neck and head for\yards. Rectus capitis anticus mi- nor. Or. Junction of the body with the transyerse process of the atlas. I/is. Basilar process of the occipital bone. Use. To bend the head for- wards. Rectus capitis lateralis Or. Transverse process of the atlas. Ins. Jugular process of the occipital bone. Use. To bend the head to the side. Scalenus anticus. Or. An- terior tubercles of transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical verte- brae. Ins. Upper surface of the first rib, near its cartilage. Use. To raise and' fix the first rib, and to bend the neck forwards and laterally. Scalenus iiEDiusy Or. Pos ■ terior tubercles of the transverse processes of four or five inferior cervical vertebrae. Upper edge of first nb, posterior to the former muscle. Use. To raise the first rib, and bend the neck laterally. Scalenus posticus. Or. Pos- terior tubercles of two or three inferior cervical vertebra?. Ins. Upper edse of the se- cond nb between its tubercle and angle. Use. To raise the second rib and incline the neck laterally, and a little backwardANATOMY. 116 MUSCLES OF THE THOEAX. Pectobalis MAJOK. Or. Ster- nal half of the clavicle, anterior surface of half the sternum, the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth trae ribs, and from aponeurosis common to it and the external oblique muscle. . ^ .X Ins. By a flat tendon mto the anterior edge of the bicipital groove, and by an aponeurosis into the fascia of the upper arm and tendon of the deltoid. Use. To draw the arm for- wards and inwards; and, if sepa- rate parts act, to raise the arm, draw it forwards, or bring it to the side. When the arm is raised it elevates the ribs and sternum, and is useful in chmb- ing 'Pectoealis mince. Or. Ex- ternal surfaces and upper edges of the third, fom-th, and htth true ribs, sometimes from the second beyond their cai-tilages. Ins. Inner and upper surface of the coracoid process of sca- "^"^^Use. To draw the shoulder forwards, inwards, and down- wards, and to elevate the ribs in forced inspiration. Stjbclavius. Or. Cartilage of the first rib. Ins. External half of the in- ferior surface of the clavicle, ex- tending to between conoid and trapezoid ligaments. Use. To bring the clavicle downwards and forwards, or raise the first rib. Sereattjs MAGNUS. Ur. isy i.jrrlit or nine fleshy slips, from eight or nine superior ribs. Ins. Base of sca))ula, espe- cially superior and inferior angles. , Use. To carry the scapula forwards, and elevate the shoul- der-joint, and when the shoulder is fixed to elevate the ribs. Inteecostales are 22 in num- ber on each side: 11 internal, and 11 external. External. Or. Inferior edge of each rib, commencing at the transverse processes of the ver- Ins. External lip of the supe- rior edge of the rib beneath, ex- tending as far as the costal ex- tremities of the cartilages. Inteenal. Or. At sternum from the inner lip of the lower edge of each cai'tilage and rib as far as the angle. Ins. Inner lip of the superior edge of the cai-tilage and rib beneath. , ., , Use. To raise the nbs, when the first and second are fixed by the scaleni. Levatobes costabcm. Ur. Extremity of each dorsal trans- verse process. . -u Ins. Upner edge of the rib below, between its tubercle and angle. . Use. To raise the nbs. TbIANGULAEIS STEKNl. Or. Posterior surface and edge of the lower part of the sternum and eusiform cartilage. Ins. Cartilages of fourth, hltli, and sixth ribs. Use To draw down tlie ribs towards the cnsiforin carti- lage.117 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Mauy of them are indistinct, and are subject to variety: they may be arranged in six successive layers. First Layer. Trapezius. Or. Internal third of the superior traiisverse ridge of the occipital bone, the ligamentum nuchas, and the spi- nous process of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, and from the supra-spinous ligament. Ltis. Posterior border of the external third of the clavicle and acromion process, also the supe- rior edge of the spine of the scapula. Use. To elevate the shoulder and draw it backwards or down- wards; to incline the head back- wards and to one side. Latissimus dorsi. Or. Ten- dinous from six inferior dorsal spines, and by lumbar fascia from all the lumbar spines, from the back of the sacrum, the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and fleshy from three or four inferior ribs. Ln.s. Inner or posterior edge of the bicipital groove of hu- merus. Use. To depress the arm and shoulder, to carry the arm iu- wards and backwards, and to i compress the ribs; but if the ; arm be raised, it may elevate 1 tliem, as in forced inspiration. ■ From its peculiar action it has I been named detersor ani, and I scalptor ani. Second Layer. RhOMBOIDEUS MINOR. Or ILower part of the ligamentum :nuchae and from the last cervical 'Spinous process. I)is. Base of scapula, opposite the triangular surface, corres- ponding with the base of the spine. Use. To raise the scapula, and thus carry the shoulder backwards. Rhomboideus major. Or. Four or five superior dorsal spines and inter-spinous lio-a- ments. ° Ins. Base of the scapula from the spine to the inferior angle. Use. As the last; and lower fibres, by acting on the inferior angle, may rotate the shoulder and depress the acromion. Levator anguli scapula. Or. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the three, four, or five superior cervical vertebrae. Lis. Vertebral margin of the scapula, between the spine and superior angle. Use. To raise the angle of the scapula, so as to cause depression 01 the acromion. Third Layer. . Serratus POSTICUS superior Or. Ligamentum nucha, last cervical, and two or three dorsal spines. Second, third, and fourth nbs, external to their angles Use. To raise the ribs, draw JJj^^ °"t^ards, and expand the Serratusposticusinferior. w I wo last dorsal and two superior lumbar spines.118 ANATOMY. Ins. Bodies of the four in- ferior ribs anterior to their angles. Use. To depress the lower ribs, and to fix them in forced inspu'ation. . Splenius colli. Or. Spines of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae. Ins, Transverse processes ot three or four superior cervical vertebrse. , , , Use. To bend the neck back- wards and to one side. Splenitis capitis. Or. Spmes of two superior dorsal, and three or four inferior cervical vertebrse and the ligamentum nuchai. Ins. Posterior part of the mastoid process, and the occi- pital bone, below its superior transverse ridge. , , , Use. To bend back the head, and each maj incline it laterally. Fourth Layer. The term Ekectob Spin.® is now applied to the mass of mus- cles along each side of the spine, described under the names of sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, and even bysome mcluding the musculi accessoru, spmahs dorsi, and cervicalis ascendens. I shall give them separately in accordance with many authors. Saceo-lumhaiis. Or. By a common tendon from the pos- terior third of the crest of the Uiuni, the oblique and transverse processes of the sacrum, sacro- iliac ligaments, and transverse and oblique processes of the lumbar vertebrse. Ins. AH the ribs, near their ^""^se. To bend the spine back- wards, and somewhat to one side, and to compress the ribs. Longissimus doksi. Or. In common with the former, from the posterior surface of the sac- rum, and transverse and oblique processes of lumbar vertebrse. Ins. All the dorsal vertebrse, and all the ribs between their tubercles and angles. Use. To support the spine, and bend it backwards and to one side. Spinalis boesi. Or. Two superior lumbar and three in- ferior dorsal spines. Ins. Nine superior dorsal spines. Use. Like the former. Musculi accessorii. Or. Superior edge of seven or eight lower ribs. Ins. Lito the lower border of the upper ribs. These are evidently sUps of the sacro- lumbalis. Use. To assist the former. Cekvicalis descendens or ASCENDENS. Or. Prom four or five superior ribs, between their tubercles and angles. Ins. Transverse processes of fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse. Use. To bend the neck back- wards and laterally, and may raise the ribs. Transveksalis colli or Ceb- vicis. Or. Ti-ausverse processes of five or six superior dorsal vertebrffi. Ins. Transverse processes of thi-ee or four inferior cervical vertebrse. Vse. ^luch the same as the former. Tkachelo-mastoideus. Or. i119 MCSCLES OF THE BACK. Transverse processes of three or four superior dorsal vertebrae, and as many inferior cervical. Ins. Inner and back part of the mastoid process. Use. To extend the neck, carry the head backwards, and incline it to one side. CoMPLExus. Or. Transverse and oblique processes of three or four inferior cervical and five or six superior dorsal vertebrEe. Ins. Close to its fellow, into the occipital bone, between its two transverse ridges. A part of this muscle is by some men- tioned separately, underthe name oi Biventercervicis, on account of being fleshy at each extremity and tendinous in the middle. Use. To carry the head back- wards, fix, or rotate it. Fifih Layer. Sem-spinaus colli. Or. Extremities of the transverse processes of five or six superior dorsal vertebra. Ins. By four heads into the spmes of the second, third, tourth, and fifth cervical ver- tebrae. Use. To bend the neck backwards, and incline it to one side. Semisfinalis dohsi. Or. By five or six tendons, from the transverse processes of the dor- sal vertebi-ae, from the fifth to the eleventh. Ins. Extremity of the spmes of the two inferior cervical and three or four superior dorsal vertebra;. Use. To extend the neck and back, and incline it to one side, and to support the trunk. Rectus capitis posticus iu- JOH. Or. Prom the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra. Im. Below the trajisverse ridge of the os occipitis. Use. To bend the head back- wards, and rotate it. Rectus capitis posticus in- NOK. Or. Posterior part of the atlas. Ins. Occipital bone, behind the foramen magnum. Use. To draw the head back- wards. Obliquus capitis dtfehiok. Or. Spinous process of the second cervical vertebrae. Ins. Exti-emity of the trans- verse process of the atlas. Use. To rotate the atlas and head on the vertebra dentata. Obliquus capitis superior. Or. Upper part of the trans- verse process of the atlas. Ins. Occipital bone, between its transverse ridges, posterior to the mastoid process. Ise. To incline the head to one side, and carry it a little backwards. SiM Layer. MULTIFLDUS SPDf^. Or. Pirst fasciculus arises from the spine of the vertebra dentata, and is inserted into the transverse pro- cess of third, each successivelv m a similar manner down to the last which arises from the spine ol the last limibar vertebra, and 13 inserted into the false trans- verse process of the sacrum. Use. To support the spine, bend it backwards and lateraUy and rotate the vertebra on each other.120 ANATOMY. this name have been described tached and situated as then some small, almost square mus- name imjilies. cles in the dorsal region, but To support the spine, drs inguished with m\ch dif- and iaeline it to one s.de^ ficultv from the multifidus spinsB. Levatoees costai^um. Or. 0^ Upper and back part of From the extremities of the thp Horsal transverse processes, transverse processes of the last txcept the rt^^^^ ' , cervical, and eleven upper dorsal Ins Lower border of the la- vertebrae. between the spinous processes tubercle and angle. of Te vertebrL they are most These muscles have been de- disttctln t neck. ' scribed with the muscles of the Use. To. approximate the pro- chest, cesses, and extend the spine. BPPEB EXTREMITY. The muscles of the upper extremity are divided into those of the shoulder and arm, forearm and hand. an, Ar.. surface of^^^-P^e^^^^ Deltoides Or. Low ^^^^^^ Ln as tile posterior ridge on of the spme of the scapula, the ^^.^^.^^ ^^^^^ anterior edge ot the acromion, ^^^^^^^ g^^^t tu- and the external third ot the ^^^^^/^^ humerus, clavicle. , jj^g^ To raise the arm, draw Ins. Hough surface on the ^^^j.^^^^.js_ ,otate it outwards, outer side of the humerus, near strengthen the capsular liga- its centre. , Vse. To raise the arm, and ^ ^^-^^ ^^^^^ j)gp,es. by its separa.te P^rts to cany it ^.^^^ ^^^^^^^ ,idges on forwards or backwards, thus ro- j^fenor costa of scapula, tating it outwards and "wards. ^^^^^ ^.^^^^^ covering it, and StiPKASPiNATUS. Or. All the ^^^^^ ^^^^ ligamentous septa, scapula above the spine, which i„ierior depression on forms the supra-spmous tossa, _ tuberosity of the hu- and from the fascia covering the muscle. TT.g" To assist the former. 7ms Upper and fore part of the All the WsriNATUS. Or. Inferior merus.MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 121 Use. To strengthen the joint internally, carry the arm back- wards, and rotate it inwards. Teees major. Or. Rough surface on the inferior angle of the scapula, below the infra spinatus. Ins. Posterior or inner edge of the bicipital groove, behind the insertion of the latissimus dorsi. Use. To draw the humerus downwards and backwards, and rotate it inwards. CORACO - BRACHIAilS. Or. Poiut of the coracoid process in common with the tendon of the short head of the biceps. Ins. Internal side of the hu- merus, about its middle, and by an aponeurosis, into the ridge leading to the internal condyle. Use. To adduct the arm, raise it, bring it forwards, and rotate it outwards. Biceps. Or. Short head, from the coracoid process; the long head, from upper edge of the glenoid cavity. Ins. Back part of the tuber- cle of the radius. Use. Pirst to supinate, then to flex, the forearm, make tense the fascia, and raise the arm. Brachialis anticus. Or. Centre of the humerus by a sUp on each side of the insertion of the deltoid, and from the fore part of the humerus as far as its condyles. Lis. Coronoid process of the ulna and the rough surface be- neath that process. Use. To flex the forearm on the humerus. Triceps extensor cubiti. Or. Long or middle head, from the lower part of the neck of the scapula and anterior portion of the inferior costa. External, or secojid head, from a ridge on the humerus, below the insei-tion of the teres minor. Short or third head, from a ridge below the insertion of the teres major, leading to the internal condyle, and from the internal inter- muscular septum. Ins. Olecranon process of the ulna, and the fascia of the forearm. Use. To extend the forearm, and cany the arm somewhat backwards. Forearm and Hand. Pronator radu teres. Or. Anterior part of the internal condyle, fascia of the forearm, intermnscular septa, and the coronoid process of the ulna. Ins. By a broad flat tendon mto the outer and back part of the radius, about its centre. Use. To pronate the hand, and to assist in the flexion of the forearm. Plexor carpi RADiiijs. Or Inner condyle and the inter- muscular septa. Ins. Base of the metacarpal bone of the index-finger. Palmarislongus. Or Inner condyle and fascia of the fore- arm. Ins. Annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis, near the root of the thumb. ^Je. To bend the hand to- wards the forearm, and make the fascia tense. Plexor carpi tjlnaris. Or Inner condyle, inner side of the olecranon, inner edge of nearly 6122 ANATOMY. whole length of the ulna, and the fascia of the forearm. Ins. Os pisiforme and base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Use. To flex the hand and adduct it. Flexor digitorum sublimis PEKPOBATUS. Or. Inner con- dyle, internal lateral ligament, coronoid process, and the radius below its tubercle. Ins. Anterior part of the second phalanges of each finger. Use. To bend the second joints of the fingers on the hand, the hand on the forearm, and this towards the humerus. Elexor digitorum profun- dus PERFORANS. Or. Three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the ulna, internal half of inter-osseous ligament, some- times from the radius below its tubercle. Ins. Last phalanx, of each fi:iger. Use. To flex the last phalanx, and to assist the former. Flexor pollicis longus. Or. Fore part of the radius below the tubercle, and from the interosseous membrane to within two inches of the carpus, sometimes from coronoid pro- cess. Ins. Last phalanx of the thumb. Use. To bend the phalanges of the thumb upon the hand, and the liand upon the forearm. Pronator guadratus. Or. Inferior fourth or fifth of the anterior surface of the ulna. Ins. Anterior pai-t of the inferior fourth of the radius. Use. To pronate the hand. Supinator radii longus. —Or. External ridge of the humerus to within two inches of the outer condyle, and from the intermuscular septa. Ins. Rough surface on the outside of the radius, near its styloid process. Use. To supinate the hand and flex the forearm on the arm. Extensor carpi radialis LONGioR. Or. Ridge of the humerus, between the supinator longus and the external condyle. Im. Back part of the carpal extremity of the metacarpal bone of the index-finger. Use. To bend the hand back- wards and adduct it somewhat. Extensor carpi radialis BREVIOR. Or. Inferior and pos- terior part of the external con- dyle and the external lateral ligament. Ins. Carpal extremity of the third metacarpal bone. Use. Like the last. Extensor digitorum com- munis. Or. External condyle, fascia of the forearm and its intermuscular septa. Ins. Posterior aspect of the second and thkd phalanges of the fom- fingers. Use. To bend the fingers backwards. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Or. External condyle, fascia, and intermuscular septa, and from the ulna. Ins. Carpal end of tlie fifth metacai-pal bone. Use. To bend the hand backwards and adduct it. ANCONJiUS. Or. Posterior and inferior part of external condyle and lateral ligament. Ins. External surface of theMUSCLES OP THE HAND. 123 olecranon and superior fifth of and back part of metacaroal the posterior surface of the ulna, bone of the thumb "'*^°"P^ Use. To extend the forearm, Use. To extend the meta- and raise the synonal membrane carpal bone of the thumb, abduct out of the elbow-jomt. it, extend the wrist, and assist Extensor MijrnriDiGiTi. Or. in supination. r.°™Pn f^^ ^Tf • u Extensor primi internodh Jns. Posterior part of pha- pollicis. Or. The interosseous Smon°iitt'thf?' ^f\^ ^^^""^^^^ the "aS'^d STeTxSsVrtmruSs*^^'"^ IT*"^^^ extSsor . of the Itl^' first phalanx, and often the Stjpd,-ator EADn BREvis. second tt-. External condyle, external Use. To extend the first fr cdTytl"°T^"^^ P'^^^^^^ °f the'thi, andt nom tne edge of the lesser operate with the former tprl^t ^^'-tl^rdoftheex- osseous ligament Extensor ossis metacarpi ligament ^'le i^i^erosseous p=pa?-ofSellS^an^- ^1^^^ t^" anconseus, mterosseous bgament coiSmon cxtensr and^postenor surface of the t... To Slend the fore- Ins. Os trapezium and upper ^S'. ^'^'^ ^-^^^^ *° ^ PKOPEK MUSCLES OF THE HAND. PaLIIAKIS BREVIS. Or An A nular ligament and the palmr" A^f^^''^''^ . fascia. P"^""^ Antenor aspect of annular liga- . Lis. Integuments on the °' ''^P^^^^^^' ^-^^ trape- uiner side of the pahn. r " . •, C/i^. To make the palm hoi ih.r P""^^'^^ base of low,bydrawin-theskiifwar.?J P''^''"*"^' «nd by an the thLb. "^°''^^^'^^"t°^^'-ds expansion into both nhalanL t^Je. The use of this, as ofANATOMY. most of the other muscles of the hand, is sufiiciently explained by its name. Opponens poiLicis. Or. Annular ligament and the os scaphoides. This muscle is also named Flexor ossis Metacarpi polHcis. , . Ins. Anterior extremity of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Flexor pollicis brevis. Or. External head, from the inside of the annular ligament and trapezium and scaphoid bones. Ins. External sesamoid bone Use. To bend the iirst joint of the fingers, to adduct and abduct them, and may, when the extensors are in action, assist them. Abductor minimi digiti. Or. Annular ligament and os pisiforme. Ins. Ulnar side of the first phalanx. Elexor brevis minimi digiti. Or. Annular ligament and the unciform bone. Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Adductor ossis metacarpi anrbase'^oFthelrst phalanx of minimi digiti. Or. Sin^il^^d the thumb. internal to the former, and over- Internal head. Or. Prom lapped by it. osmagnumand the base of the All the metacarpal bone ^ ' • " -^Ji- of the httle finger metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Ins. Internal sesamoid bone and the base of the first phalanx. Adductor pollicis. Or. Three fourths of the anterior surface of the third metacarpal bone. ■ Ins. Inner side of the root of the first phalanx of the thumb. Arductor iNDicis. Or. Op- posed sides of the metacarpal bones, of the forefinger and thumb Inteeossei antici, vel in- terni, vel palmares. Or. Sides of the metacarpal bones. Ins. Pirst phalanges and ten- dinous expansion, covering the dorsum of each finger. The palmar interossei are adductors towards the centre of the middle finger. 1st. Internus vel adductor iNDicis. Or. Uhiar side of the second metacarpal bone. Ins. Luier side of the first /I' Outer side of the base pli^^^"^ of ^he fbrefinger To adduct the fore- Use. finger. 2d. Adductor Or. Radial side mctacarpid bone. Ins. Radial side of the first ANNULARIS. of fourth of the fii-st phalanx of the index finger.' LuMBRiCALES. Or. Outer side of the tendons of the fiexor profundus, near the carpus, a little beyond the annular liga- — . . phalanx of the ruig-bnger. t. Middle of the first pha- Use To draw the i-mg-finger lanx and the tendinous expansion towards the middle on^ cohering the back of each finger. 3d. Adductor mimmi digiti. . This muscle is properly considered to be one of the dorsal interossei.125 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Or. Radial side of the fifth meta- carpal bone. Ins. Radial side of the first phalanx of the little finger. Use. To draw the little to- wards the ring finger. Interosseiposteriores. Or. Opposed sides of two metacarpal bones. Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the fingers and posterior ten- dinous expansion. They are all abductors from the central line of the middle finger. 1st. Dorsal interosseous, also named abductor indicis, has been before described. 2d. EXTERNTJS MEDII. Or. Second aad third metacarpal bones. Ins. Radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger. Use. To draw this finger towards the thumb. 3d. Internus MEDir. Or. Retween the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers. Ins. Ulnar side of the fii-st phalanx of the middle finger. Use. To draw this finger towards the ring-finger. 4th. ExTERNTJS AlOTULAHIS. Or. Retween fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. Ins. Ulnar side of the ring- finger. Use To draw the ring to- wards the little fiiiger. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. ^e1olS™a£r"^"' '''''' '''' Obliqtjtjs exteknus vel de- SCENDENS. Or. External sur- face of the eight or nine inferior ribs at a little distance from their cartilages. Lis. Ensiform cartOage, Hnea alba, tubercle, and symphysis pubis, Poupart's ligament, into the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the outer edge of the anterior half of the crista ilii: some consi- denng Poupart's ligament as part of this muscle, describe it as also inserted into the linea ileo-pectinea by Gimbcrnat's ligament. Use. To depress the ribs, compress the abdomen, turn the body to one side, or coniointlv to bend it forwards. Obliqtjtjs internus vel as- CENDENs. Or. Eascia lumborum, anterior two thirds of the middle lip of the! crista ilii, and the ex- ternal third of Poupart's liga- ment. Ins. Cartilages of six inferior ribs, ensiform cartilage, the linea alba, also by the conjoined ten- dons into the symphysis and Tipper edge of pubis, and mto t le Imea ileo pectinea. When the tendon of tliis muscle arrives at the outer border of the rectus itspbtsmto two layers, so as to lorm the sheath of the rectus excepting at the lower part half way from the pubis to the um- bihcus, where the three tendons pass m front of the rectus. llse. Its action is like that of126 ANATOMY. the former, each separately may rotate the trunk, co-operating with the opposite external ob- lique. CiiEMASTEK. This musclc, deriving part of its origin from the internal oblique, is here de- scribed, though being a muscle of the scrotum. Or. Inner sur- face of the external thu-d of Poupart's ligament, and from the lower edge of the obliquus internus, and sometimes from the transversalis. It often has an attachment to the pubis. Ins. Tunica vaginalis and scrotum. Use. To elevate, support, and compress the testicle. Tbansveesalis. Or. Fascia lumborum, anterior three fourths of the inner lip of the crista ilii, the iliac third of Poupart's liga- ment, and the inner side of the six inferior ribs. Ins, Along with the posterior lamina of obhquus internus, into the whole length of the linea alba, the upper edge of the pubis, and the linea ilio-pectinea. Use. To compress the abdo- men, and assist in respiration. Rectus. Or. Upper and an- terior part of pubis. Ins. Ensiform cartilage, the costo-xiphoid ligament, and the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs. Use. To compress the abdo- men, to depress the chest to- wards the pelvis, or raise the latter towards the chest. Pykamidalis. Or. Broad • from the crista of the pubis. Ins. Linea alba, midway to umbilicus: it is sometimes want- ing. Use. To make tense the linea alba. DEEP MUSCLES C The DiAPHBA&M is divided into two portions, a superior broad or true diaphragm, and an inferior lesser portion named crura. True diaphbagm. Or. Poste- rior surface of the xiphoid carti- lage, internal surfaces of the car- tilages of the last true and all the false ribs, the external or false ligameutum arcuatum, and the convex edge of the true liga- meutum arcuatum. Ins. Tlie fibres all convert and are inserted into the corcu- form tendon. False, or lesser diaphragm, or CROBA. Or. Right crus, from the fore part of the bodies of four F THE ABDOMEN. superior lumbar vertebrae, the left crus from the sides of the two or three superior lumbar vertebrae. Ins. Into the cordiform ten- don. The internal fibres of the crura cross each other, and sur- round the oesophageal openmg. Use of the Diaphragm. To aid iu inspiration, and to assist the expulsion of the foetus, faeces, and urine, vomiting, and many other actions connected with the respiratory organs. Q,UA.DRA.TUS LUJrBOBtJM. Or. Posterior fourth of the crista of the ilium, and from the ilio-lum- bar Ugameut. I?is. Extremity of the trans-127 MUSCLES OF MAIE PERINiEUM. verse processes of the four supe- rior lumbar, and sometimes the last dorsal vertebrae, also the inner surface of the posterior half of the last rib. Use. To bend the spine late- rally, depress the lowest rib, and support the spine. Psoas pakvus. Or. Side of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrse. Ins. Linea ileo-pectinea, fas- cia iliaca, and fascia lata, behind the femoral vessels: sometimes wanting. Use. To bend the body for- wards, and make tense the crural arch. Psoas jiagutjs. Or. Sides of the bodies of the last dorsal, and from the bodies and transverse processes of all the lumbar ver- tebra, also from the interverte- bral substance. Ins. Inferior part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. Use. To bend the body for- wards, or to bend the thigh upon the body, and rotate the thigh outwards, and when the thigh is fixed to raise the body from the recumbent postnre. Iliacus inteenus. Or. Trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, inner margin of three anterior fourths of the crista Hii, and its two anterior spinous processes and intervening notch, the brim of the acetabulum, the capsular ligament, iliac fossa, and iliac fascia. Ins. In common with the tendon of the psoas maguus; the inferior fibres are inserted into the anterior and inner sur- face of the femur, below the trochanter minor. Use. To co-operate with the former. MUSCLES OF THE Sphincter ani. Or. Ano- coccygeal ligament. Ins. Into the raphe, super- ficial fascia, and common central point of the perineum. Use. To close the anus and depress the bulb of the urethra. Sphincter internus en- circles the lower part of rectum, merely to close the anus. Erector penis. Or. Inner surface of the tuber ischii, and from the insertion of the great or inferior sciatic ligament. Ins. Fibrous membrane of the cms penis. Use. To draw the penis down and compress its veins, so as to produce the enlargement. male perineum. Accelerator tiring. Or. Prom the central point of the perineum, and fi'om a tendinous raphe extending forwards from it. Ins. By three sets of fibres on each side. The most posterior are mserted into the rami of the pubis, and deep perineal fascia, beneath the symphysis. Another set smTound the bulb of the urethra, meeting on its upper part, and surrounding it, the most anterior wind round the corpora cavernosa, to be inserted on their upper part, just where the penis m a flaccid state bends upon itself. Use. To expel tlie semen and unne, and distend the corpusANATOMY. 128 spongiosum, by forcing the blood into its cells. TrANSVEBSUS PERINiEI. Or. Inside of the tuber ischii. Ins. Central point of the pe- rineum. Use. To support the centre of the periaeum. Levator ani. Or. Posterior part of the symphysis pubis, ob- turator fascia, the ilium above the thyroid foramen, the inner s\irface of the ischium, and its spiaous process. Ins. Anterior or pubic fibres into the central point of the pe- rineum and fore part of the rec- tum ; middle fibres into the side of the rectum; the posterior fibres into the back part of the rectum, and to the os coc- cygis. Use. To raise the rectum in opposition to the inspiratory muscles; to close the rectum, and to compress the vesiculse seminales and prostate gland; to raise the perineum and com- press the membranous portion of the urethra. Compressor uRETHRiE. Or. By a tendon from the inside of the symphysis pubis. Ins. Below the membranous portion of the urethra, into the narrovr tendinous line, which be- comes lost in the central point of the perineum. Use. To compress or raise the membranous portion of the urethra. The muscles of the two sides are also named Wilson's muscles. Theii- existence is denied by some anatomists. Compressor urethra trans- VERSUS, or Mr. Guthrie's muscle. Or. By a tendon from the junc- tion of the ramus of the ischium, and pubis of each side. Ins. Some of the fibres cross from one side to the other above the membranous portion of the urethra and some beneath it, and cover it along its whole extent; sometimes there is a middle tendinous raphe into which they are inserted. Use. To compress the urethra. CoccTGEUs. Or. Inner sur- face of the spine of the ischium. Ins. Extremity of tlie sacrum and side of the coccyx. Use. To support the coccyx. MUSCLES OF THE ] Sphincter ani. Or. Ano- coccygeal ligament. Ins. Rapne, superficial fascia, and common central point of the perineum. Use. To close the anus. Levator ani. Or. Posterior part of the symphysis pubis, be- low the true ligaments of the bladder, obturator fascia, ilium above the thyroid foramen, the EMAIE PERINEUM. inner surface, and spine of ischium. Ins. The same as in the male. Use. To raise the anus and compress the vagina. CoccTGETJS, as in the male. Transversalis perin^i, as in the male. Erector clitoridis. Or. Inner surface of the tuber ischii,MUSCLES OP THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 129 and insertion of the great sciatic ligament. Ins. i'ibrous membrane of the erus chtoridis. Use. Similar to the erector penis of the male. SpHijfCTER VAGINA Bxtends from the clitoris superiorly. around each side of the vagina to the central point of the peri- neum, in front of the anus. Use, as its name implies. Compkjessoe. or Coxstrictor TOETHn^ is described by some as precisely similar to that of the male. MUSCLES OP THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY Are classed into those of the thigh, leg, and foot. Muscles on the Fore Part and Sides of the Thigh. Tensor vagina or Fascia niMOKis. Or. External part of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Lis. Duplicature of fascia lata on the. outer side of the thigh, about three inches below the great trochanter. . Use. To make tense the fas- cia of the thigh, and to rotate the thigh inwards, to flex and abduct it. Sabtoritjs. Or. Anterior su- perior spine of the ilium and the notch beneath it. Lis. Inner side of the upper end of the tibia, below its tu- bercle. To bend the leg on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, to adduct the thigh and throw it over the opposite one, to ad- vance the leg and turn it out- wards, and when the leg is bent it may turn it inwards, and in standing supports the pelvis. Rectus femoris. Or. Ante- rior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the acetabulum, and capsular ligament. Ins. Upper edge of the pa- tella and its ligament. Use. To extend the leg, flex the thigh on the pelvis, support the pelvis, and strengthen the capsular ligament. Vastus externus. Or. Root and anterior part of the great trochanter, the outer edge of the linea aspera, the oblique ridge leading to the external condyle, all the external surface of the femur, and the fascia lata. Ins. External surface of the tendon of the rectus, the side of the patella, and by an aponeurosis into the head of the tibia. Use. To extend the leg and rotate it outwards. Vastus internus. Or Ante- rior part of the femur, linea luter-trochanterica, the inner edge of the linea aspera, and mside of the femur. i>M. Inner edge of the tendon ot the rectus, the patella, and aponeurotic into head of the tibia. Use. To extend the leg and turn it inwards. ® Crur/eus. Or. Anterior and external part of the femur, com- mencuig at the linea iutcr-tro- 6§ANATOMY. 130 clianterica, and extending along three fourths of the bone, as far outwards as the linea aspera. Ins. Upper and outer edge of the patella, and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Use. To extend the leg, as- sisting the three former. StJBCETJR^TJS, or CAPSTriAKIS. Or. Inferior fourth of the ante- rior surface of the femur. Ins. Synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Use. To raise the synovial membrane. Gracilis. Or. Lower halt of the symphysis, and inner edge of the descending ramus of the OS pubis. . Ins. Superior part of the in- ternal surface of the tibia. Use. To adduct the thigh and leg, and bend the knee. Pectineus. Or. Linea ilio- pectinea and the horizontal ra- mus of the pubis. Ins. Rough ridge leadmg from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Use. To adduct the thigh, rotate it outwards, and flex it, and strengthen the hip-joint. Tkicei-s adductob temokis consists of three portions: 1st. Adductok longus. Or. External surface of the pubis, between the spine and symphysis. Ins. Middle third of the linea aspera. . Use. To adduct the thigh, rotate it outwards, support the pelvis; the long and short por- tions can flex the thigh on the pelvis, the great portion may extend it. 2d. Adductok bketis. Or. Anterior inferior surface of the pubis, between the former and the thyroid foramen. Ins. Superior third of the internal root of linea aspera. 3d. Adductok WAGNrs. Or. Anterior surface of the descend- ing ramus of the pubis, ramus of the ischium, and the external border of its tuberosity. Ins. Eough ridge leading from the great trochanter to the liuea aspera, the linea aspera, and in- ternal condyle of the femur. MUSCLES OF THE HIP. Gluteus maximus. Or.Pos- Use. To extend the thigh terior fifth of crista ilii, the rotate it outwards, abduct it rough surface between it and and support the pelvis and trunk the superior semicii'cular ridge, on the lower extremity, the posterior ilio-sacral Hga- Gluteus medius. Or. Deep ments, the lumbar fascia, the surface of the fascia covering it, spines of the sacrum, the side of the three anterior fo™ of COCCYX, and the great sciatic crista ihi, all the surface of the Sent. ilium, between the crista and ^Ins. Rough ridge leading the superior semicu-cular ridge, from the great trochanter to as weU as the ridgc itselt. fnea aspera, and upper thii-d of Ins. Upper and outer part of E aspera! Hie gi-eat trochanter.MUSCLES OP THE THIGH. 131 Use. To extend the thigh by its posterior fibres, and rotate it outwards, and by its anterior fibres rotate it inwards, and sup- port the pelvis on the thigh. Gluteus minimus. Or. From the space between the semi-cir- cuiar ridges on the dorsum of the ilium. Ins. Upper and anterior part of the great trochanter. Use. ^ Similar to the former, but in addition gives immediate protection to the hip-joint. PTiiipoiiffls. Or. Concave surfaces of the 2d, 3d, and 4th divisions of the sacrum, the back part of the ilium, and the ante- rior surface of the great sciatic ligament. Lis. Upper part of the digital fossa at the root of the great tro- chanter. Use. To rotate the thigh out- wards, and abduct it. Gemellus suterioe. Or. Spine of the ischium. Ins. Upper part of the digital fossa. Use. To rotate the thigh out- wards, and abduct it. Gemellus infemoe. Or. Up- per part of the tuber ischii, and the great sciatic ligament. Ins. Digital fossa, with the gemellus superior. Use. Like the former. Obtueator inteenus. Or. Pelvic surface of the obturator ligament, circumference of the obturator foramen, except at the notch for the vessels, where it arises from the ligamentous arch, the pubis internally, the ischium inferiorly, and the obturator fascia. Ins. Digital fossa. Use. Like the gemeUi. QUADEATUS FEMOEIS. Or. External border of the tuber ischii. Ins. Inferior and posterior part of the great trochanter and posterior linea inter-trochan- terica. Use. To rotate the thigh out- wards, and slightly to adduct it. Obtueatoe esteenus. Or. Inferior surface of the obtui-ator ligament and surrounding sur- faces of the pubis and ischium. Ins. Digital fossa. Use. Like the former. muscles of the back part of the thigh. Biceps flesoe cruris. Loiiff head. Or. Outer and back part of the tuber ischii. Short head. Or. Linea aspera, from below the insertion of the gluteus maximus to within two inches of the external condyle. Ins. Head of the fibula. Use. To flex the leg on the tliigh, extend the thigh, fix the pelvis, and rotate the limb out- wards. Semitendinosus. Or. Tube- rosity of the ischium, with the long head of the biceps, and from three inches of its tendon. his. Anterior angle of the tibia, below the tubercle. Use. To flex the leg and ro- tate it inwards, and to support the pelvis. Semimembranosus. Or. Up- per and outer part of tuber ischii. Ins. 1st, into external con-ANATOMY. 132 dyle of the femur, (according to some,) forming the ligament of Winslow; and into the posterior heads of tibia and fibula. Use. Like the former, and to strengthen the posterior part of the knee-jomt. MUSCLES ON THE ANTEEIOR PART OF THE LEG. Tibialis ANTicus. On Outer part of the two superior thirds of the tibia, the inner half of the interosseous ligament, fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septa. Ins. Inner side of the internal cuneiform bone and base of the first metatarsal bone. Use. To adduct the foot, turn the toes inwards, and support the leg. Extensor digitoritm longus. Or. External part of the head of the tibia, head of the fibula, and three fourths of this bone, part of the interosseous ligament, fascia of the leg and intermuscular septa. Ins. Last phalanx, of the tour external toes. Use. To extend the toes and flex the foot. Extensor POLLi CIS proprius. Or. Inner edge of the middle third of the fibula, the inter- osseous ligament, and sometimes from lower part of the tibia. Ins. By two tendinous fasci- culi, one into the base of the first, the other into the base of the second phalanx of the great toe. Use. To extend the great toe, bend the ankle, and rotate the foot inwards. Peroneus TERTins. Or. An- terior surface of the lower half of the fibula. Ins. Base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone, and fibres to join the foui-th tendon of the extensor communis. Use. To extend the little toe, bend the ankle, abduct the foot, and raise its outer edge. MUSCLES ON THE OUT PeKONEUS LONGUS. Or. Ai-oujid the head of the fibula, adjacent surface of tibia, the upper half of the external angle of the fibula, the fascia, and in- termuscular septa. Ins. Outer side of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, and adjacent sesamoid bone, also into the internal cuneiform bone and base of the second metatarsal bone. \ LR PART or THE LEG. Use. To extend the foot, to turn it outwards, and elevate its external edge. Peroneus brevis. Or. Outer and back part of the lower half of the fibula, and the intermus- cular septa. Ins. Os cuboides and base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Use. Like the former.MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 133 MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG Consist of a superficial and deep layer. outer condyle of Superjicial Layer. Gasteocnemius. Or. Inter^ial head: upper and back part of the internal condyle of the femur, and the oblique ridge above it. External head: from above the external condyle. on the outer condyle of the femur. Ins. Plat triangular surface, occupying the superior posterior fifth of the tibia. Use. To Ilex the knee. FlEXOK LONGUS DIGITORUM Ins. Lower and back part of pehforans. Or. Posterior flat the OS calcis. sm-face of the tibia, from below Use. To raise the heel and the popliteus to within three extend the foot, to flex the knee- inches of the ankle, the fascia. joint and strengthen it Px-ANTAEis. Or. Back part of the femur above the exteraal condyle, and posterior ligament of the knee. Ins. Posterior part of the os calcis, anterior to the tendo Achillis; sometimes wanting. Use. To extend the foot, stretch the fascia, and bend the knee. SoLETJS. Or. External head: from the back part of the head and superior third of the fibula. Internal head: torn, the pos and intermuscular septa. Ins. Last phalanx of four lesser toes. Use. To flex the toes and metatarsus, and extend the foot. Tibialis posticus. Or. Pos- terior internal part of the fibula, upper part of the tibia, and nearly the whole length of the inter-osseous ligament. Ins. Liferior and internal tu- berosity on the OS uaviculare, the mternal cuneiform and cu- boid bones, and the second and ±iivcinui, iieaa: n'om tne pos- ■J"'" "unes, ana tne se terior part of the tibia, just below metatarsal bones. the insertimofthepopUteus:it Use. To extend the foot aaid unites with gastrocnemius to elevate its inner ed^-e form the tendo Achilbs. Ylv^r^^, ^nrrr^ ' Use. To assist the gastroc- r ' t , , , nemius. ^'^^^ -L^ast phalanx of the great Deep Layer. Popn.B,s. Or. Deprassio^:„d^.°ddt^tfol'°'" MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The plantar muscles are divided into four layers. Lower and inner part of the os S^nf^S"::^'ANATOMY. 134 Ins. Internal sesamoid bone, and internal side of base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Use. To separate the great toe from the rest. ElEXOB. DIGITOBUM BREYIS PEHFOKATTJS. Or. Inferior and internal part of the os calcis, in- ternal annular ligament, plantar aponeurosis, and intermuscular septa. Ins. Second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Use. To assist the long flexor. A3DUCT0B. MINIMI DIGITI. Or. Outer side of the os calcis, ligament extending from the os calcis to the outer side of the fifth metatarsal bone, the plantar fascia, the external intermus- cular septum, and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. his. Outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little Use. To separate the little toe from the rest, and to flex it. Second Layer. MuscuLUS ACCEssoBins. Or. Inferior and internal part of the OS calcis. „ , J J Ins. Outer part of the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus, before it divides. Use. To strengthen the long flexor, and obviate its obliquity. LuMBEicALES, four iu num- ber. Or. Tendons of the flexor digitoram longus. „ ,, „ , Ins. Internal side of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes. Use. To adduct and flex these toes. . , T Third Layer. iLEXOB I'OLLICIS BREVIS. Or. Lower and anterior part of the OS cuboides and external cunei- form bone. Ins. Sesamoid bones, and base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Use. To flex the first jomt of this toe, and bring it close to the others. Addtjctob pollicis. Or. Cu- boid bone and base of the second and third metatarsal bones. Ins. The base of first phalanx and external sesamoid bone, with the flexor pollicis brevis. Use. To approximate the great to the other toes, and slightly flex it beneath them. Tbansveksalis pedis. Or. Anterior extremities of the four external metatarsal bones. External sesamoid bone of the great toe. Use. To approximate the toes, and strengthen the arch of the foot. ElEXOE BBEVIS MIXIMI DI- GITI. Or. Cuboid and fifth me- tatarsal bones, and sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. Ins. Inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Use. To flex and adduct the little toe. Fourth Layer. Three interossei muscles are seen on the sole of the foot, and four upon its dorsum. Ineeriob or plautar inter- ossei. 1st. ADDUCTOE MEDII DIGIT!, situated between the second mid third metatarsal bones. Or. Inner side of the third metatarsal bone. ,^,11 Ins. Base of the first phalanx of the third toe.MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 135 2d. Adductoe atJAETi digiti. Or. Inner side of the fourtli me- tatarsal bone. Ins. Inner side of the first phalanx of the fourth toe. 3d. Addtjctor MiNr&a digiti. Or. Inner side of fifth metatarsal bone. Ins. Inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Use. All three draw the three outer toes towards the second toe. MUSCLES ON THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT. Extensor DiGiTOEUMBREvis. his. Outer side of the first Or. Upper and anterior part of phalanx of the second toe IS calms and the hgament ■ ■ the OS calcis, connecting it with the" astra- galus, and annidar hgament. Ins. Internal tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, the three others join the outer edges of correspond- ing tendons of the extensor di- gitorum longus. Use. To extend these toes and turn them outwards. Interossei superiores vel extern:, are bicipital muscles, and four in number. 1st. Or. Internal side of the second metatarsal bone and outer side of the first. Use. To separate the second from the great toe. 3d. Opposite sides of the tlm-d and fourth metatarsal bones. Ins. Outer side of the first phalanx of the thii-d toe. Use. To remove the third from the two inner toes. 4th. Opposite sides of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Ins. Outer side of the first phalanx of the fourth toe. Use To separate the fourth irom the three inner toes cond to the great toe. ?!:Z°"PP™^^™^'^t^ese- toe, which thus stands in the same relation as the middle fiugerof the hand in respect to mterossei muscles. 2d. Or. Opposite sides of the secondandthirdmetatarsal bones. MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT Are eight in number. the foramen opticum. Qfi n,>TT^, Ins Superior border of the Orbital^dSS/f""''"''- tarsal cartilage. illar h superior max- 2d. 0BLiQuus SUPERIOR. Or. /i Spipv^r Margm of foramen opticum. the f Ins. Sclerotic coi between muscL b i.imi T'^'f' ''''''' rectus."^^'™' '""^ axis of'thcte:' '""^^""'^ Use. To rotate the eye down- tbe^v'; S^"^'' J- uuwn me eye, upwards and outwards.136 ANATOMY. 4th. Rectus supeeioe, vel ATTOLLENS OCULI. 5th. Rectus ikFEHioE, vel DEPRESSOR OCULI. 6th. Rectus internus, vel ADDUCTOR OCULI. 7th. Rectus esternus, vel ABDUCTOR OCULI. All these four muscles arise round the optic foramen, by a common tendon, the external rectus being also attached to the margin of the sphenoidal fissure. and they are inserted about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea, and their names express their use. Tensor tarsi. Dr. Horner's muscle. Or. Posterior part, and spine of os unguis. Ins. By two fasciculi into the lacrymal tubes near the puncta. Use. To compress the lacrymal sac, and force the tears down into the nose. CLASSIFICATION OF MUSCLES OF SOME PARTICULAR PARTS, According to their Action. Lower Jaw. Elevators Temporalis. Masseter. Internal pterygoid. Depressors. Platysma myoides. Digastricus. Mylo-hyoideus. Genio-hyoideus. „ hyo-glossus. Lateral Rotators. Pteryoideus externus. „ internus. Os Hyoides. Elevators. Digastricus. Stylo-hyoideus. Mylp- » Genio- „ Genio-hyo-glossus. Depressors. Sterno-hyoideus. „ thyroideus. Thyro-hyoideus. Omo-hyoideus. Scapula. Elevators. Trapezius (upper portion). Levator auguli scapulae. Rhomboidei. Depressors. Trapezius (lower part). Latissimus dorsi. Pectoralis minor. Drawn forwards by— Pectoralis minor. Serratus maguus. Drawn backwards by— Trapezius. Rhomboidei. Latissimus dorsi.ClASSIFICA gHOULDEE-JOINT, OR HUMER' Elevators. Deltoides. Pectoralis major (parMy). Supraspinatus. Coraco-bracliialis. Depressors. Pectoralis major. Latissimus dorsi. Teres major. SubscapuJaris. Adductors. Pectoralis major. Deltoides (anterior part). Biceps. Coraco-bracliialis. Abductors. Deltoides (posterior part). Latissimus dorsi. Teres major. „ minor. Triceps (long head). Rotators, inwards. Deltoides (anterior part). Pectoralis major. Subscapularis. Latissimus dorsi. Teres major. Rotators, outwards. Deltoides (posterior part). Supraspinatus. Lifraspinatus. Teres minor. Coraco-brachialis. Elbow-joint. Flexors. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Assisted by Pronator teres and superficial flexors of the fore-arm. X OF MUSCLES. 137 BxtcTisors. Triceps. Anconeus. Hip-joint and Eemub. Flexors. Iliacus. Psoas magnus. Pectineus. Triceps (long and short head). Tensor vaginae femoris. Fxtensors. Gluteus maximus. „ medius. Adductor magnus (posterior por- tion). Pyriformis. Semimembranosus. Semitendinosus. Biceps (long head). Adductors. Triceps. Pectineus. Gracilis. Iliacus. Psoas magnus. Sartorius. Obturator extemus. Quadi-atus femoris. Abductors. Glutei. Tensor vaginee femoris. Obturator internus. Gemelli. Pyriformis. Rotators, outwards. Iliacus. Psoas magnus. Pectineus. Triceps. Gluteus maximus. » medius, posterior por- tion.138 ANATOMY. Pyriformis. Gemelli. Obturatores. Q,uadi-atus femoris. 'Rotators, inwards. Tensor vaginae femoris. Gluteus medius, ") anterior por- „ minimus, 3 tiou. And when the Leg is extended. Sartorius. Semitendinosus. Leg OB Knee-joint. Flexors. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Gracilis. Sartorius. Popliteus. Extensors. Rectus. Vastus externus. „ intemus. Crureus. Foot. Flexors, Which bring the foot towards the front of the leg. Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum. „ proprius pollicis. Peroneus tertius. Fxtensors. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. Plexor longus digitorum. „ poOicis. Tibialis posticus. Peroneus longus. „ brevis. Adductors, Inclming the foot inwards. Extensor proprius pollicis. Plexor longus „ „ digitorum. Tibialis posticus., Abductors. Peroneus longus. „ brevis. „ tertius. Extensor longus digitorum. THE BEAIN AND NEBVOUS SYSTEM. The Viscera of the body comprise the organs contamed in the cavities of the cranium, thorax, abdomen, and pelvis We shall first consider the contents of the ^^.^^^j;;™'™ are the brain and its membranes, together with the cei ebr^ nerves, after which we shall speak of the nervous system '""Thrcavity of the cranium is formed by eight bones, four of which are single, viz., the/rouja^, ^thnotd sphe^^^^^^^^ and occipital, the remaining are double, viz., two parietaL X?e STrt united by a particular mode of junction.THE DURA MATER. 13g called suture, consequent upon the peculiar development of these bones. The sutures are named the lambdoidaL sagittal, coronal, and squamous, to which are added the additamentum suturm squamosa, and the additamentum sutur<B lamhdoidalis. In the young subject also, the frontal bone is divided vertically into two halves by a con- tinuation of the sagittal suture. These bones are not united before birth, their borders allowing a considerable amount of overlapping, and thus permitting a great alteration of the shape and size of the tota^ head during parturition. In the centre, there exists, at tHis time, a diamond-shaped interval between the two panetal bones and the two segments of the frontal bone, caUed the antenor fontanel, and posteriorly to this exists a triangular shaped interval, in the situation of the sub- sequent junction of the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures, called the posterior fontanel. ' x^eluLr^Tr «f tl^e bead is somewhat the kttp; ^ '^'"'^"l internal plate, the latter of which, from its hardness and shining appear laver n7'°'''^ '^^''^ ''''''^ separated ^by a Thfs d^W "^-^ '^^^'^ the diploe. /his diploe does not exist in the very young subiect and It partly disappears in old age. The bones o"f Klium are considered to have no real internal periosteum as Th^ internal investment is formed by the dura mater. ' ^ • Ihe membranes covering the brain are the dura mater arachnoid, and pia mater. ' The Z>Hra Mater is a dense strong fibrous membrane of a white pearly appearance, rough externally where it is adherent to the bones of the cranium, smooth intern"uv where it is lined by the arachnoid, hence called by some fibro-serous It also extends down the spinal canal in Z form of a sheath to the spinal cord, but^it do s not fom the periosteum to the bones, as in the crmin^ iJ and the intervening ones Skit 1 rough external surface °f the Z! ? ' the^^erous minute vel a ^TnTtrnVTrr' '''' the antoothnesa of the internal ^'r:^^'^^140 ANATOMY. caused by its being invested by the araclinoid. On the dura mater,. near the vertex, but seldom before twenty years of age, are seen several small hard pale glandular- looking bodies, called Pacchionian glands ; their use is unknown. The arteries supplying the dura mater are, anteriorly from the ophthalmic ; in the middle the arteria meningea media, and parva from the internal maxillary; and pos- teriorly some small branches from the ascending pharyngeal, vertebral, and occipital arteries. The veins of the dura mater empty themselves into the neighbouring sinuses. The dura mater serves as a channel for the passage of the nerves from the cranium, and invests some of them at their exit. The dura mater is divisible into two layers, the external one of which is the thickest and always remains closely attached to the bone, the internal one forming several folds in the cranium, in the margins of which run the sinuses. The principal of these folds are the falx major, the falx minor, and the tentorium. The falx major (so called from its resemblance m shape to a sickle) is of a semilunar shape, its greater edge being superior and attached to the bones of the cranmm, its lesser inferior and free ; the anterior end invests the cnsta gaUi, the posterior or larger end terminates in the tento- rium. As it separates the two hemispheres of the bram from one another, it prevents sudden compression of either from a rapid motion of the head. The tentorium runs in exactly the reverse direction ot the falx major, for instead of being vertical it is horizontal, and instead of running from before backwards it runs from one side to the other. It separates the posterior cerebral lobes from the cerebellum, and protects the cerebellum from the pressure of the cerebrum. In some animals it is osseous. , The falx minor runs from the foramen magnum to tlie tentorium, finally spreading out into the latter. Its size is very small, as compared with the others. Besides these, the dura mater forms a series of bridges, as they may be called, over all of those sinuses that do not run in the folds just mentioned; the most remarkable of these is that over the cavernous sinus.THE DURA MATER, 142 The sinuses of the brain, or more strictly of the dura mater, are sixteen in number, four of which empty them selves directly into the Torcular Herophili, viz., the superior longitudinal, the straight, and the two occipital sinuses • two lead from it, viz., the two lateral sinuses, whilst the nine remaimng lie at the base of the brain, viz., the anterior and posterior chnoid sinuses, the two cavernous sinuses (which four together form the circular sinus of Ridley) the two superior petrosal, the two inferior petrosal, and the transverse. To these are sometimes added the torcular Merophili and the circular sinus, in which case there would be eighteen m all, Thesuperior longitudinal sinus commences at the foramen c^cum, which is situated just in front of the crista galli of the ethmoid bone; it passes first upwards, then directly backwards and do wnwards to empty itself into the torcular Sn^T 7u generally pours the greater part of its blood into the right lateral sinus. This sinus runs in the supenor or greater border of the fak major, of which he two layers form the sides of the sinus, the external layer of dura mater covermg it in. It will be therefore een^o be triangular in shape. In its interior will be seen several tnere aie also a few Pacchionian glands. Several vein^ open into the great longitudinal shius, the Section of which IS from behind forwards, thus opposing the course of the blood in the sinus which is from before backwards this arrangement checks the risk of regurgitation on a'; exertion by which otherwise the blood would be sent ba^k on thebram in every act of coughing, sneezing, or any other accidental excitement of the circuktion ; it may aS be themeans of preventing the toorapid passage of tSood The inferior longitudinal sinus runs in the same rW' tion as the former, but along the lower border of ^1,.?! major, and being entirely surrounded by this it f ^ circular in shapf. It may be consilrL ' at the posterior end of thl cLt" JalH 1 ? ^r''''"'"^^ anterior edge of the tentorium a\vl i h spotTt t'"^ r.^^ sinus Which carVies i^Zl^ZX The straight sinus commenpp<> nf fii« „ • .he .eotoriu.. where i. r^^SiXZl^^142 ANATOMY. longitudinal sinus and the Vena Galeni; from this spot it runs backwards and somewhat downwards to terminate in the torcular Herophili. The occipital sinuses (of which sometimes, however, there is only one,) run in the posterior edge of the falx minor ; they empty themselves into the torcular Herophili: they are very small, and sometimes communicate with the lateral sinuses at the anterior margin of the occipital fora- men, which in such cases ia almost entirely surrounded by them. . , . n xi. The lateral sinuses, of which the nght is generally the largest, run from the Torcular Herophili in a groove of the bone, to the posterior lacerated foramen of the base of the skull, terminating in the internal jugular veins. They run in the margin of the tentorium, and are consequently rather triangular in shape ; they receive the blood from the torcular HerophiU posteriorly; in nearly the middle of their course they receive the blood from the superior petrosal sinuses, soon after which they receive the blood from the internal ear by small veins, and from veins entering by the mastoid foramen and posterior condyloid foramen, and, iust before their termination, they receive the interior petrosal sinus as well as the inferior cerebral and cerebellar veins. In their course they groove the occipital, the parietal, and the temporal bones. . j , .i,. The sinuses which are more particularly situated at the base of the brain are the following: , ■^ e The cavernous sinuses are situated one at each side ot the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. They are formed by a splitting of the dura mater into two layers, one of which is in contact with the bone, whdst the other arches over the contents of the sinus. Anteriorly it receives the ophthalmic vein, posteriorly it is continuous with the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, whilst on its internal surface it receives the anterior and posterior cliuoid sinuses. The cavity of this sinus is intersected by a number of fibrous bands, which give it a cellular appearance, and it also con- tains the following structures, viz., the third, fourth, and onhthalmic division of the fiftli nerves, which he partially against and are partially inclosed within its external layer • * the order indicated, from above downwards; and the nternal carotid artery with the sixth cerebral nerve restingTHE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 243 against the inner wall The carotid or cavernous plexus of the sympathetic also surrounds the internal carotS artery m this situation. ^^oua Th^ clinoid sinuses are situated one before and the other behind the pituitary body from which they receive the venous blood by minute veins. The clinoid%inuses are very small, and form, by communications with the caver- nous sinuses, the circular sinus of Kidley The superior petrosal sinus, on each side, extends from the posterior part of the cavernous sinus to about th^ middle of the lateral sinus, in which it terminates Its course is backwards and outwards, and it runT lodged in a groove on the ridge which separates the superior from the posterior surface of the petrosal portion of the teZoial bone In size it is much smaller than the foUowing^ Ihe inferior petrosal sinus, much shorter than the nre ceding runs in a groove formed by the adjacent borders of the sphenoid temporal and occipital bones. Its course is from the posterior and internal narf nf , The Arachnoid membrane, so called from its resembUn. Hke aZ7 ' ^P'^-\-^b. is a serous membr ne a^d nj<e all other serous membranes a shut ro^ ^ light, thin, transparent Tatur; Its ex^^^^^^^^ ayer (inthe cranTum) invests ihe dura X To T'^' that It can with the greatest difScultv o^Jv from It, whilst its internal visceralTayt eoL/tr/r"''** but lightly attached to the tops of the convn? f does not dip down between tLm at all C ''^.^ invests most of the cranial nerves as f«r « ^''".'''^"oid the cranium, but returns alS fi^^d t ^v'-^r'', considered by some anatomists to pasrinto b^ 1 hmng them entirely, this is, how^r,rnifd^^'rel:^144 A.K ATOMY. The place where it is considered to enter them, is almost immediately under the posterior cerebral lobes, and is caUed the fissure of Bichat. The arachnoid also extends down the spinal canal, lining the dura mater, and reflected upwards upon the spinal cord, and not passing out wi h anv of the nerves. The arachnoid may be seen separately as it passes from one convolution of the bram to another. Between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater is found a variable quantity of a serous fluid, called the sub-arach- noidean fluid, which sometimes exists m considerable quantity in the spinal canal. In the healthy state there are no visible blood-vessels in this membrane. Immediately under, and closely connected with the arachnoid membrane, is the third investment of the brain- the pia mater,-^ highly vascular structure appearmg to consist only of minute vessels and cellular tissue. It nve ts the^brain most closely covering its entire surface and dipping down between aU the convolutions. It also mssesTto the lateral ventricles, and thence over the third ?ent c e, in which situation it forms the tela choroulea^^ TveluminterposiUm, found i^^^^^.'^f f ^ ^ tTventrick fornix • it also sends a small process into the fourth ventricle It passes down upon the spinal cord, but becomes much JhiSened, and a? the same time less vascular insomuch that Cloquet and some others have considered it, in th^ situation to be a different structure; but this is probably Siout suLient reason, as the pia mater of the spinal ^rd i^ quL continuous with that of the cranium, and o^y alters on account of the difference in the structure to which iJ s applied Unlike the arachnoid, it is extended upon the neTves which quit the cranium and spinal canal, and lobarslo f^m the commencement of their neurilemma. des structures investing the ^rain and spind „«v<1 there is another in relation only with the latter, Zt ^^ LioZtln denticulatunu This extends on each side, along the whole length of the spinal cord At ite sunerior extremity it is inserted into the dura mater near Sfforamen magnum, and extends as far as the lower end of the cord. Its internal margin is attached to the whole Sr^lth of the pia mater investing the spinal cord, wh st f external margin is attached by about twenty-two little p inf to tie side of the dura mater, from this circumstanceNERVOUS SYSTEM. 145 forming the scolloped or toothed appearance which gives the ligament its name. The ligamentum denticulatum is almost entirely covered by the arachnoid; it separates the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It preserves the spinal cord from concussion in sudden lateral movements of the body. The ligamentum denticulatum is situated between the dura mater and the pia-mater; from this reason some have conceived it to be formed by the arachnoid, but it is generally considered, at the present Clay, that it is of a perfectly distinct structure. The nervous system in general is, in the present day, divided into tvyo grand parts, for the purposes of description, Une, caUed the cerebro-spinal, containing the nerves of animal life; the other, the ganglionic, which comprises the nerves of organic life. This latter, in man, is represented by the sympathetic nerves and their adjuncts. All the vertebrata have the two systems developed in every indi- vidual but the animals of a lower range, such as the Crus- tacea have no distinct cerebro-spinal system, thouo-h the ganglionic is in general sufficiently well developed Before entering upon a detail of the cerebro-spinal system, it wiU be necessary to say a few words ot' the various substances of which it is composed. The white or medullary substance is found in the interior ot the cerebrum and cerebellum, but on the exterior of the medul a spinalis, meduUa oblongata, pons varolii, crus cerebelh, and crus cerebri. It is composed of an immense number of small tubes or fibrill^, which never communi! cate with one another, although they occasionally interlace Ihe white substance seems only (as far as can be known) to act the part of a conductor to the various nervous mrni festations exhibited by the grey. The fibres of whL sub.' srt^:^;:t';:ved"^^^^^^'"- ^-p^^ ternally in tiie crura cerebri and c cereboi T varolii, medulla oblongata, and medul a snTn.l ' Tb P'"' substance is compose! of small, c^'^;^^l^ grey substance has been supposed t'o owe itrcTlour to Uic 7ANATOMY. 146 numerous minute vessels ramifying through it. It is the seat of all the nervous manifestations, such as sensation, motion, volition, the powers of the mind, memory, &c., and entirely surrounds the extremities of the tibriUse of the medullary substance: it covers the whole brain with a layer, varying from to i of an inch in thickness. Its surface is closely adherent to the pia mater by cellular tissue and vessels, to which Ruysch has given the name of Tomentum Cerebri. 11 i • u * The yellow substance, which, as well as the black, is but a modification of the grey, may be seen in the lower part of the posterior cerebral lobes and m the cerebellum. The black substance is seen, of a semilunar form, on cutting across the crura cerebri, and is here called the locus niger. It is also seen in the tuber cinereum and infundibulum. THE BRAIN. The Brain is divided, for the purposes of description, into the cerebrum, cerebellum, cerebral protuberance, (or pons varolii,) and medulla oblongata. The cerebrum is nearly eight times the size of the cerebellum, whilst this latter is about eight times as large as the cerebral pro- tuberance. , , ^, , -^^ The Cerebrum, into which are prolonged the anterior piUars of the spinal cord, of which, indeed, it may be con- sidered the terminal expansion, occupies the upper and principal portion of the cranium. It is divided above by the falx major, below by the great longitudinal fissure into two lateral divisions, called hemispheres and each ot these is subdivided inferiorly into three lobes, the anterior middle, and posterior; the two former are separated by a distinct deep impression, called the fissura Sylvu; but between the middle and posterior there is no distmct hue of demarcation. , . The anterior lobes of the cerebrum rest on the orbitar plates of the frontal bone, the lesser wings of the sphenoid, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The middle lobe rests upon the greater wings ot tne snhenoid, and the petrosal portion of the temporal bone, which conjointly form the middle fossa of the cranmm The posterior lobe rests on the tentorium. On tlie sur-THE BRAIN. J47 face of each hemisphere are seen convex ridges rimnino- iu various directions, named^yn', or conyolutions, the fissures between them being called sulci, or grooves. The gyri, or convolutions of one side, have but a general resemblance in figure to those of the other. The difference in appearance is more marked as the brain is better de- veloped, and is more apparent in man than in the inferior animals, rhere is one convolution more uniform than the rest to which the term gyrus fomicatus is appUed. It may hv iT 1 T.,'^' P^^* °f brain, ij front of and KIw A ''^^^"'•P'^^ callosum, it ascends upwards and backwards upon that body, then descends behind the crus cerebri, which it thus almost surrounds like a rin. Un gently separating the two hemispheres superiorly the corpus callosum is seen. penoriy. On slicing away the substance of the brain, at about we brin "]n hemiiHeres by anZ " . '° ''''^ular, small, oval space, termed we see hew T"''"" f"^^ ^^is section we see the white and grey substance showing their neculiar arrangement We also see a few small blooTy ^points blT We'' ^'n'?^"" niinute vessels Tthe shSes J^:i^' ^^'^ depth and various By slicing away the substance of both the hemispheres to a level with the corpus caUosum, we brino- intZew ^ S'ofT ^p^^^' '^^^^ '"^^ c%:tZ Zll majus of Vieussens. We now see, in this situation iZ toXTtf ''"^ fi""' '^"^ hemispheres. passJ^tom one fibred o^^ r f tb"^ ^''••P"^ ^^llosum. These Ues eXLuo "'^'^f -edullary substance wS vers S^^^^^^^ as yery delicate trans- Ihe corpus callosum., so called from its hardness (^\.\.\. missure of the brain. Lalerallv 1, I. , ^ on .,.e ba. 1^:^St^Z148 A.NATOMT. becoming continuous with the under surface of tlie corpora striata. It passes over the optic commissure, with which it is slightly blended, and is lost on the Tuber Ciuereum and substantia perforata antica. Posteriorly the corpus callosura is continuous with the fornix in the middle, and the hippocampi majores at the sides. Inferiorly its surface covers the bodies of the lateral ventricles, and in the middle it is attached to the septum lucidum, whilst under its pos- terior margin is the fissure of Bichat. The superior surface of the corpus callosum presents a groove called the raphe, which runs along its centre, and at either side of this is an elevated ridge running along its side, whilst externally it is marked by transverse lines, here called linece transverscB. The two longitudinal ridges have been named strice longitudinales, and also nerves of Lancisi. On this surface run the anterior arteries of the cerebrum, which, having turned over the anterior rounded margin of the corpus caUosum, pass on its upper face trom before backwards, paraUel with one another, and are here called arterice corporis callosi. The corpus callosum is composed entirely of white substance, and is considerably thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. On cutting down longitudinally into the white substance on either side of the corpus callosum, we make an opening into the lateral ventricle. . ... Each lateral ventricle is described as consisting ot a body and three cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle ; the body is of an irregular shape, and bears no resemblance to any known object. Anteriorly it is continuous with the anterior cornu, posteriorly with the posterior cornu. Externally lie the cerebral substances of the hemispheres. Internally is the septum lucidum. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum, whilst its floor is formed by the following parts, in the order mentioned from before back- wards ; the corpus striatum, taenia semicircularis, the cho- roid plexus, thalamus opticus, and the lateral thin margin of the fornix. • \ • The corpus striatum (plurally, corpora striata,) is a grey, pear-shaped body, of which the larger end is ••interior, and close to its fellow of the opposite side, whilst tne smaUer extremity is posterior and divergent, bemg ^f P^'lf from its fellow by the thalami optici. Internally it isTHE BUAIN. 149 composed of both grey and white striated matter, so mixed as to give it the appearance from which it derives its name. The white matter seen in it is a prolongation of the anterior pyramids, which derive their last increase of substance from these bodies previously to expanding into the cerebral hemispheres. From this circumstance the corpora striata have been called the superior cerebral ganglia, or ganglia of increase. The tania semicircularis is. a small, thin, band of nervous substance, which separates the thalamus opticus from the corpus striatum ; it may be traced for a short way into the descending cornu in which it ceases. The choroid plexus is a congeries of blood-vessels and cellular tissue which passes from the foramen of Monro over the body of the lateral ventricles through the descend- ing cornu of the lateral ventricle to the pia mater at the base of the brain. At the foramina of Monro the two choroid plexuses unite to form the velum interpositum of which we shall speak when we treat of the third ventricle Ihe thalamus opticus and the fornix we will leave for the present. The anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle appears like a simple groove in the cerebral substance. Its direction is forwards and outwards, diverging from its fellow of the opposite side. "ihe posterior cornu is in shape like a depression, caused by a finger being pressed into the substance of the posterior lobe. It IS thence called the digital fossa. It is likened to a cock's spur by some, and hence named ergot by the l-rench. Its direction is backwards and inwards converging to the opposite cornu; it presents a slight elevation (derived trom the corpus callosum) on its floor, called the hivvo- campus minor. 'ihe desceiiding cornu describes a considerable curve the general direction of which may be remembered by e word BODFi ,^its course being backwards, outwards down! wards, then forwards and inwards. In the descending cornu are seen the following parts The side and part of the under surface of the thahamu; opticus the choroid plexus, the hippocampus mZ he corpus flml,natum, the fascia dentata the pes hiZcampi^ and the pes accessorius. ^ mppucampi,ANATOMY. 150 The hippocam'pus major somewhat resembles in shape a cerebral convolution ; from its twisted form it has also been called the cornu ammonis. It presents a curve of which the convexity is outwards and the concavity inwards, and at its inferior and anterior extremity it presents the pes hippocampi. This latter is a row of small elevations from three to five in number, and somewhat resembling the foot of an animal. External to the part where the cornu makes its curve forwards there is seen another slight elevation, called theses accessorius, or emineniia collateralis. The corpus fimhriatum, or tcEnia hippocampi, is a thin falciform process of white substance, forming the free anterior border of the hippocampus major. It gradually becomes narrow and ends in a point a little behind the pes hippocampi. The fa&cia dentata is a narrow line of grey substance situated below the lower border of the corpus fimbriatum, its edge is marked by several small transverse notches, whence it has its name. The hippocampus major is found to be a lateral con- tinuation of the posterior border of the corpus callosum and fornix, and, in the same way, the corpus fimbriatum, or, as it is sometimes called, the taenia hippocampi, is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix. The lateral ventricles are separated from one another by a thin longitudinal partition, composed of nervous sub- stance passing from the corpus callosum above to the fornix below, named septum lucidum. This septum lucidum is considerably deeper anteriorly than posteriorly, and con- tains between its two layers a small cavity, lined with a pecuUar serous membrane, and called the fifth ventricle. On each side the septum is composed of a layer of grey matter externally, and white internally. At the anterior part of the septum lucidum, but beneath the narrow an- terior part of the fornix, is seen a small hole, called the foramen of Monro, through which, on each side, passes the 'Choroid plexus, the two foramina leading to a single foramen behind the anterior pillars of the fornix through which both choroid plexuses pass, to expand on the roof of the third ventricle, and form the velum interjjosifum. The thalami oiHici are two large, firm, oblong bodies, nearly an inch and a half long, by three fourths of an inchTHE BRAIN. 151 •wide and deep; they are composed of white and grey matter, the latter being internal, and through their centre pass the fibres of the anterior pyramids, from which circumstance they have been called the posterior cerebral ganglia; they form the middle ganglia of increase of the anterior pyramids of the spinal cord. The boundaries and relations of the thalami optici may be given as follows: Internally they are bounded by the third ventricle, across which they are connected by the middle and posterior commissures. Externally they form a portion of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Anteriorly the optic thalami are continuous with the corpora striata, posteriorly they are bounded by the de- scending cornu, and have developed upon them two rounded eminences, called the corpus geniculatum externum and internum, from the former of which the optic nerve takes one of its origins. Superiorly, the thalamus opticus is partially covered by the posterior pillars of the fornix, the remainder of its surface forming a part of the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle, whilst inferioriy it is con- nected with the crura cerebri, as well as slightly with the corpora albicantia. The thalami optici are also connected at their posterior part, by small peduncles with the Pineal gland, and with the nates. The fornix is a triangular lamina of white substance, with its apex directed forwards and its base backwards' anteriorly dividing into two round bands, which pass almost vertically downwards behind the anterior com- missure to terminate in the corpora albicantia: posteriorly it IS connected with the corpus callosum, and divides late- rally mto a posterior cornu on each side, which terminates m, or rather is continuous with the t^nia hippocampi hippocampus major and minor: superiorly, the fornix is attached to the septum lucidum; its sides slightly overlao he optic thalami, whilst its inferior surface JveTZ third ven ricle, from which it is partially separated by tl e velum interpositum. On the under surface of the fornk are seen some longitudinal Unes, to which the term «,«;^e- rzum, or yr«, has been applied, from a supposed resem- bknce to the strings of a harp.152 ANATOMY. When the body of the fornix is removed we bring into view the tela choroidea or velum interpositum. The velum interpositum is a triangular, membranous expansion, in which ramify numerous minute veins and arteries; its apex anteriorly is continuous with the choroid plexuses -which have passed through the foramen of Monro, whilst its base (which is posterior) is situated close to the fissure of Bichat, through which it passes. In it run the Vense Galeni, which finally unite into one, and which, with the inferior longitudinal sinus, combine to form the straight sinus. When this velum is raised we expose the fissure called the third ventricle. The third ventricle, (which may be easily shown by cutting through and reflecting, and removing the velum interpositum and the fornix,) is a small narrow cavity lying between the optic thalami. It is bounded anteriorly by the anterior commissure and the anterior crura, or pillars of the fornix, posteriorly by the posterior commissure, the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum and corpora quadrigemina; its roof is formed by the fornix and velum interpositum ; its floor, (which is very short,) is formed by the lamina cinerea, tuber cine- reum and infundibulum, corpora albicantia, and locus per- foratas, (or pons Tarini,) whilst its sides are formed by the thalami optici, and very slightly by the corpora striata. The middle or soft commissure crosses the middle of the third ventricle, and almost entirely fills its cavity. Two other commissures exist here, named anterior and posterior. The anterior commissure is a medullary band, uniting the corpora striata, in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix. The tniddle commissure, or commissura moUis, composed of grey matter, connects the two optic thalami extensively together; it is so soft that it is generally found broken when the ventricle is opened. Between it and the anterior commissure, along the floor of the ventricle, is an opening, leading into the infundibulum terminating in a cul-de-sac, called the Iter ad Infundibidum. The posterior commissure is a rounded white cord con- necting the thalami optici posteriorly. It lies over the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum and under the Pineal gland.THE BRAIN. J53 The Iter a tertio ad qiiartum ventriculim, called also the foramen commune posterius, aquceductus Sylvii, and canalis medius, is a small canal, leading, as its name denotes, from the third to the fourth ventricle; it passes over the pons varolii and under the posterior commissure, nates and testes, and Pineal gland. The foramen commune anterius is that canal by which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third; it is shaped like the letter Y, the two superior bars of which are (in the brain) anterior, whilst the inferior is posterior. This is occasioned by the two choroid plexuses, either of which has a separate foramen to pass through, afterwards uniting together and passing behind the anterior pillars or crura of the fornix as but one body. Under the posterior part of the velum will be found the Pineal gland, and inferiorly and somewhat posteriorly to this, the corpora qiiadrigemina. The corpora qiiadrigemina are four little, white, round bodies, connected intimately with each other, of which the anterior and superior pair are called the nates, the posterior and interior being named the testes, from a fancied re- semblance to the arrangement of those parts. The 7iates are connected with the optic thalami on each side bv a thickish peduncle; the testes being continuous with the cerebellum by two peduncles, called the processus 6 cerebeUo ad testes. Between the processus e cerebello ad testes of each side is stretched a thin layer of medullary substance called the valve of Vieussens. This latter forms a portion ot the roof of the fourth ventricle. The nates and testes form part of the roof of the iter a tertio ad quartum ven- triculum. The Pineal gland is a small portion of grey matter ' about the size of a small pea. It is connected to the brain by two small delicate peduncles, which run from it to the optic thalami, and which maybe traced forwards to the anterior p,liars of the fornix. It rests upon the groove and upper part of the nates. It contains often I little s7 bulous matter, composed of phosphate of lime. It occa- sionally appears divided into two lobes. It has also been sometimes called the co«a™, and the earthy matter has been termed acervulus cerebri. It was supposed by Descartes to be the seat of the soul. Pfus'ta oy 7§154 ANATOMY. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum (or lesser brain,) is situated in the pos- terior occipital fossae, resting slightly npon a portion of the temporal bone, and is covered by the tentorium. A slight line of demarcation separates it externally into two lobes, but internally there is a very manifest line of division. Inferiorly the falx minor assists in the sepa- ration. Externally the cerebellum is not covered with convolu- tions like the cerebellum, but appears to be formed by a number of lamellae or plates with sulci between them. "When cut across the arrangement of the white and grey matter is seen ; these are arranged in such a way as to give an arborescent appearance, thence called the arbor vita, the white substance forming the stalks, and the grey the leaves of this arrangement. When cut into deeply we see in the middle of the me- dullary substance an oblong patch of grey matter with a jagged border; this is called the corpus rhomboideum or dentatum, and is supposed to be a ganglion of increase to the formative fibres of the cerebellum. The superior vermiform process of the cerebellum is a slightly elevated ridge running along the middle of the superior surface of the cerebellum between the two lateral lobes, which it connects superiorly. The inferior vermiform process is situated inferiorly, and rtins from before backwards between the two lateral lobes, which it connects. The floccidus, or pneumogastric lobide, is situated on the anterior border of the cerebellum, close to the origin of the eighth pair, whence its name. The litiffuetfa laminosa, is a small process of grey sub- stance, extending from the cineritious matter of the cere- bellum to the valve of Vieussens. The iivida and tonsils are three processes of the cere- bellum, situated on its anterior surface, and forming the posterior boundary of the fourth ventricle. They resemble those parts in the throat when in a swollen state. The peduncles of the cerebellum arc six, three on each side, two of them (the superior) are the i^rocessus 6 cere- hello ad testes, tho, inferior pass to the copora restiformia;BASE OF THE BRAIN. 155 the middle are the converging fibres of the under part of the medulla oblongata, usually known as crura cerehelli. The crura cerebelli are two thick rounded cords (very short), leading from the substance of the cerebellum on each side to the pons varolii. They form part of the great transverse commissure of the cerebellum. The fourth ventricle is a small cavity situated between the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. It is bounded laterally by the corpora restiformia, and the processus e cerebello ad testes. Above by the testes and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum; below by a small process of pia mater, and arachnoid closing its cavity. Posteriorly by the valve of Vieussens above, and the uvula and tonsils below, and anteriorly by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, across which are seen some delicate white striae, which are the origins of the auditory nerve. This surface comes to a point (between the two restiform processes) inferiorly, which has been called the calamus scriptorius, from a slight resemblance that it has to a writing pen. At the extreme point of the pen is seen a small cavity or depression, called the ventricle of Arantius. The little projection of the pia mater inferiorly into this ventricle has been called the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. We will now proceed to the description of the Base of the Brain, with which we will describe the cerebral pro- tuberance in its proper place. BASE OF THE BRAIN. Most anterioriy will be perceived the great longitudinal fassure dividmg the anterior lobes of the brain, and on gently separating these we shall see the anterior extremity ot the corpus callosum. On each side of this fissure is a groove which lodges the olfactory nerve and its bulb. * In front of the optic commissure in the mesial line iallosum ^ of the corpus Further hack, and in the middle line, may be seen the commissure of the optic nerves. The anterior diver-in^ nems gomg to the eye, whilst the posterior, convcrg nf156 ANATOMY, ^ forwards, may be traced over the crura cerebri to their origin in the optic thalami and corpora quadi'igemina. External to the optic commissure may be observed a triangular space, of a brownish colour, called the substantia perforata antica; a portion of the inferior surface of the corpora striata. It has its name from its being perforated by several minute tufts of vessels, which pass through it to supply the interior of the brain. In this situation may be seen the three origins of the olfactory or first nerve, its most internal one being from the internal substance of the anterior lobe, and generally indistinct; its middle one, from a little tubercle of the grey substance of the anterior lobe and the substantia perforata antica; whilst its external root runs for a short distance along the fissure of Sylvius, in which it terminates. The fissure of Sylvius is a deep groove, which separates the anterior from the middle lobe. It commences internally at the substantia perforata antica, and it runs outwards and very slightly forwards to the edge of the bram. A httle before its internal termination this fissure divides into two, which, by their divergence from one another, partially enclose a small group of convolutions, called the Island of Heil. Along the fissura Sylvii runs the middle cerebral artery. Immediately behind the optic commissure is situated a small dark-reddish eminence, called the tuber cinereum; from the middle of which (in this position of the brain) projects the infundibulum. This latter is, as its name denotes, a small funnel, and leading from the third ven- tricle to the pituitary gland. The infundibulum is, how- ever, not pervious, excepting at its upper part, the lower being closed by a small fold of the serous membrane of the ventricle. The pituitary body or gland (the use of which is un- known) is situated in the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. It is bounded laterally by the cavernous sinuses, and has no communication with the nose. Its shape is Externally to the tuber cinereum, and under the edge ot the middle cerebral lobe, is seen a fissure, through which the pia mater enters the descending coruu of the lateral ventricle, as the choroid plexus.BASE OF THE BllAIN. J 57 The tuber cinereum forms a portion of tlie floor of the third ventricle, and is attached laterally to the convero-ino- optic nerves. * ° Behind the tuber cinereum and infandibulum are seen two small round white bodies, called the co?-pora albicantia pisiformia, or mamiUaria, but generally by the first name • they are composed of white matter externally, and grev internaUy, and are the terminations of the anterior piLrs or tne rornix. ^ Behind the corpora albicantia is seen a small triangular piece of grey substance, called the locus perforatus posticus, or pons Tanm It ,s perforated by numerous small blood^ vessels It forms a portion of the floor of the third ventricle. It is bounded laterally by the crura cerebri Ibe Crura cerebri are two short, thick, rounded cords leading from the pons varolii to the optic thalami Tev are prmcpally composed of medullary substance; but S their interior is a semilunar mass of grey substance wh rh from Its dark colour, is called locus nijr ' ' of "'"t'' ^o™Posed of the anterior columns the Z \ P-^iiS^-ly by additions fZ tUe ganghon of increase m the pons varolii From the internal surface of the crura cerebri, jus aft 1 their mergence from the pons, arise the third pair of ne v tlrtZ'TT ^^^y ^^'^ been traced S ii', crura to the locus niger. Immediately behind the crura pprphvi c„ ^i. ThiJ, which isX^TallTtl- L^^^^^^^^ berance nodus cerebri, or annular protuberance il a fQunr^ mass, the breadth of which is about • equarto L ?^ k and depth. From its appearing to unite the cer ^^'^ rests upon the basilar'pJLe s of th occS h '"^"'7-^ slightly grooved in its centre by the .T' '"V' posterior surface is grooved by the iter a terH T^' ventriculum. Its superior edcp . quartum cerebri wh.eh pass'ou rS it relation with ihe n,edulla 1 Ll^^^^^P^/f"--Y/^i-- contmuous with the crura cerebeUi ^ The pons varoUi is somewhat complex as to its structure.158 ANATOMY. and is rendered somewhat more so by the various parts in relation with or passing through it. The external part ot the pons, both anteriorly and posteriorly, may be considered as forming the great commissure of the cerebellum, ihis portion is composed of medullary substance, the fibres ot whicli are transverse. InternaUy, the pons varohi is filled by a quantity of grey ganglionic substance, througti the centre of which the fibres of the corpora pyramidaha and olivaria pass from behind forwards and upwards to form the crura cerebri. These fibres are greatly increased in tliis situation as to number, and this circumstance has caused the pons varolii to be considered as the first or cerebellar ganglion of increase to the spinal cord, it must, however, be borne in mind, that the posterior pillars, or corpora restiformia,- do not enter into the pons varolu at all Bv the sides of the pons varolii are seen the tourtn nerves coming from their origin in the valve of Wsens and at its point of junction with the crus cerebelh of each side the fifth nerve makes its exit. , , j The crura cerehelli are two thick medullary cords, lead- ing from the pons varolii to the lateral portions ot the cerebellum, one on each side. They are composed of medullary substance. „ Immediately behind the pons varolii is seen the medulla oblongata. This is the upper end of the spinal cord, and is considerably thicker and more expanded than the rest- Although the?e is no distinct hue of demarcation that separates it from the rest of the spmal cord we are accustomed to consider about the ^"If "^^'/-^^^ .fj"^, ^ nnarter as belonging to the medulla oblongata, wlulst the r^tt des^cJ^'as^he cord. The medulla oblongata is about five eighths of an inch broad and half an m^h thick It is divided by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral grooves into four rounded bodies, called pyramids, of which the two anterior are called anterior pyramids and the two posterior, jjosterior pyramids. Between tuese two, at the upper part of the lateral groove, is seen on elch side a little oblong elevation, called from its shape the corpus olivare: and, between the corpus ohvare aiKi posterior pyramid is the corpus resUforme of some au ho The -eneral figure of the anterior part of the medulla oblongata is rounded, of the posterior flattened.BASE OF THE BRAIN. 159 The corpora •pyramidalia or anterior pyramids are situated close together, being only separated by the anterior sulcus. About three fourths of an inch below the pons the two decussate, the fibres of the right one passing to the left, and vice versa. This helps to explain the cause of paralysis occurring on the opposite side of the body to that of the braui affected by accidental or morbid lesion. From the extreme summit of the corpora pyramidalia arise the sixth nerves. They contain no grey matter. The corpora olivaria are composed of white substance externally, and contain, in their interior, a small leaf-like patch of grey matter, named corpus dentatum olivare, which has given them the name of ganglia of increase of the medulla oblongata. The fibres of these bodies, as well as those of the corpora pyramidalia, pass through the pons varohi Between the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria anses the ninth pair of nerves. The corpora restiformia (so named from their rope-like appearance) are continuations of part of the posterior column of the spmal cord, and partly of the anterior column placed between the corpora ohvaria and posterior pyramids and pass into the cerebellum, forming its inferior peduncle of each side, and forming part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle. They contain some erey matter internally. " "^^i^ posterior pyramids are composed of medullary sub- stance entirely; they are close together below, but above diverge from one another to pass at once into the lateral obes of the cerebellum. From this they have been some- times called the processus e cerebello ad medullam Thev bound by their divergence the calamus scriptorius, and laterally the cavity of the fourth ventricle. From the Some transverse white striae are occasionally seen on the anterior part of the medulla oblono-ata below oHvaria. These have been named^^^foit^fibt,^^ arciformes, or processus arciformes ) KJiokb Before leaving the brain, I shall say a few words on its mode of evolution from the spinal cord, as well as oT the160 ANATOMY. modes of correspondence and connection between the two sides. The corpora pyramidalia, as before mentioned, pass first through the pons varolii, their first ganglion of increase, which they leave considerably augmented, as the crura cerebri. They then pass into the optic thalami, their second (the inferior cerebral) ganglion of increase; from this they pass into the corpora striata, or superior cerebral ganglion of increase, where they receive their last aug- mentation, before they are evolved into the cerebral hemispheres. The corpora olivaria pursue a similar course to the pyi-amidalia; but, in addition to passing through the other ganglia of increase, the major part of their fibres go through an oval nucleus situated in their centre, called the olivary ganglion or corpus dentatum, which thus forms their first ganglion of increase. The corpora restiformia spread out into the cerebellum, without having any relation with the pons, and after passing through their single ganglion of increase (the corpus rhomboideum) are evolved into the cerebellar hemispheres. , . . i j- ,^ • The former parts, which from their situation and distri- bution have been caUed the diverging fibres, include all those parts which are evolved into the cerebral hemispheres. The next which we shall speak of are the convergmg fibres, or those which bring all the parts of the brain into com- munication and common consent of action with one another. They are the following: . The corpus callosum, or great commissure, connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. • The anterior commissure connects the corpora striata. The middle or soft commissure, connects the optic thalami. The posterior commissure also connects the optic thalami at their posterior part. , • v The pons varolii connects the cerebral hemispheres in the same way as the corpus callosum the cerebral. These are all transverse commissures, and connect the hemispheres one with the other. The fornix is an antero-posterior commissure, connecting the anterior with the posterior parts of the cerebrum.BASE OF THE BRAIN. Igl The peduncles of the pineal gland are also commissural. The processus e' cerebeUo ad testes and the valve of Vieussens, are both antero-posterior commissures, and serve to connect parts of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The septum lucidum is considered to be a perpendicular commissure, connecting the corpus callosum and the fornix together. Most of these commissures are composed of white sub- stance, but the soft commissure and the valve of Vieussens, as well as the pineal peduncles, are composed of grey Many actions and thoughts which, from the peculiar arrangement and perfect individuality of the hemispheres, might have been expected to be double, are by this free communication made single; and thus, so to speak, nothing IS done by one side of the body that is not im- mediately perceived by the other. The Spinal cord medulla spinalis, or spinal marrow, is aU that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is situated below the medulla oblongata. From this point it extends, passing down the spinal sheath, to the first or second lumbar vertebra at which spot it terminates in the cauda equina. In early life it extends almost the whole length of the spinal column (as indeed it does permanently in many animals) but it rapidly assumes its permanent con- dition in the human species. When cut across, its shape IS ovoid, the long axis being transverse, and its size varies m different par s of the canal, it being narrowest in the middle of the corsal region, and broadest at the medulla ob ongata its next largest part being just before it termi- nates and Its next opposite the sixth and seventh cervical It is composed of both white and grey matter, the latter being internal and the white external The spinal cord presents six grooves, of which one is anterior and one posterior, the four others being at the 8 des. The sulcus longitudinalis anterior is tolerably wide but not so deep as the r)n<3^Pl•;rvr . .1 " ,v "'"t:. The sulcus longitudinalis posterior, narrower but deeper than the anterior, extends nearlv hnlf ^.n,, 1 V cord, and terminate, in the gr^yiLsjLr162 ANATOMY. The anterior lateral groove is a narrow line on the side of the cord from which arise the anterior or motor roots of the spinal nerves ; it only grooves the white substance. The posterior lateral groove, parallel with but posterior to the preceding, is larger, and proceeds into the grey substance; from it arise the posterior or sensitive branches of the spinal nerves. By these grooves the spinal cord is divided into three columns on each side; the anterior, posterior, and lateral. On the anterior part of these last is seen the narrow white line of the respiratory tract of Sir Charles BeU. The grey substance is found, on making a section, to be arranged in a crescentic shape in each hemisphere, one corner of the crescent being anterior and shorter, the other longer and reaching to the roots of the posterior spinal nerves. The two crescents are arranged so that they are convex towards each other, and are connected by a narrow band of grey substance, so that they produce an appearance not very unlike a capital letter H. The white matter entirely surrounds the grey, excepting at the roots of the posterior nerves and at the bottom of the posterior sulcus. The two sides of it are only con- nected anteriorly at the bottom of the anterior groove, and this, from the transverse direction of the fibres, is some- times called the spinal commissure. The medullary fibres j posteriorly are nearly all longitudinal. The arteries that supply the brain arise from two sources | on each side, the internal carotid and the vertebral. The internal carotid, which divides at the anterior part and side of the sella turcica, gives off: 1. The ophthalmic, supplying the eye and its appendages, which it reaches through the foramen opticuni. 2. The anterior cerebral, which runs forwards and up- wards parallel to its fellow of the opposite side, over the anterior border of the corpus callosum, on the superior surface of which it runs as the arteria corporis callosi. It is connected with its fellow by a short branch, the anterior communicating artery. 3. The middle cerebral artery, which runs along the fissure of Sylvius, terminating a little beyond its outer end. It is the largest of the branches of the internal carotid.BASE OF THE BRAIN. 163 4. The posterior communicating, which runs almost directly backwards to join the posterior cerebral, thus completing the circle of Willis on each side. The vertebral artery of each side, after entering the skull at the foramen magnum, first gives off the anterior and posterior spinal arteries to supply the cord, and next the inferior, or iposterior cerebellar artery, which is dis- tributed to the lower and back part of the cerebellum; after which it unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery, which lies on the basilar process of the base of the skull. The basilar artery runs forwards and upwards, giving off transverse branches to the pons, internal ear, and parts of the base of the brain, and finally divides at the upper border of the pons varolii into its four terminal branches. The anterior pair of which are, the posterior cerebral, and the posterior, the superior or anterior cerebellar. These two are separated on each side by the third pair of nerves. The circle of Willis is a very curious arterial communi- cation, by means of which all the four great cerebral arteries anastomose very freely with one another. This space is not circular, but heptagonal in* shape, it being formed m front by the anterior communicating artery, next to which, on each side, lie the anterior cerebral arteries, the posterior communicating arteries connecting these with the posterior cerebral arteries which form the posterior angle. Within the circle of WiUis are seen the following parts • from before backwards, the lamina cinerea, the optic commissure, tuber cinereura and infundibulum, corpora albicantia, locus perforatus, and a small portion of the crm-a cerebri, with the roots of the third pair of nerves Ihe arteries of the brain are remarkable for their tor tuous course, and free anastomosis with one another their division luto minute branches previously to enterino- the substance of the brain, and, lastly, for the^hirmess otth r coats, the middle one being apparently deficient The arteries of the brain are also extremely liable to ossific deposit in old age. The veins of the brain empty themselves into the various rgXrVlf ""'^ ^'^^-^ "^^-ndANATOMY. 164 NEHVES. The nerves are white medullary cords, necessary to sensation, motion, and all the functions of life. They are composed of very minute fibrillse, called nervous fibres, each fibre having its sheath, called neurileraa. These fibres are next bound together by their neurileraa, forming primary fasciculi. These primary fasciculi being bound together by cellular tissue to form secondary fasciculi, several of-which, aggregated together, form a nerve, which is contained in a strong fibrous sheath that keeps all its parts together, and to which the term neurilema is ordinarily applied. The ultimate nervous filaments are now considered as tubular, containing within their cavity a soft substance, which may be easily squeezed out from their cut ends. The ganglionic filaments have, to all appearance, no in- ternal cavity, they are considerably less in diameter than those of the cerebro-spinal system. There is considerable doubt about the termmation of the nervous filaments, some considering them as ending in loops, others thinking that they terminate in free ends, whilst some evidently terminate in ganglionic corpuscles or Pacinian bodies. We shall not be very far ofi' the truth if we consider each nerve as double ; its termmal end being a loop ; its originating end from two nerve corpus- cules. The origin of all the nerves of animal hfe being in the cerebro-spinal system, and that of the nerves of organic life in the ganglionic or sympathetic system. As far as can be ascertained, the sympathetic nerves communicate with one another by means of their gangha; but the cerebro-spinal nerves, though they often interlace, forming plexuses, never communicate one with another. Many of the cerebro-spinal nerves have enlarged portions, called ganglia. These, besides containing many inter- lacing fibres, have also several nerve or ganghonic cor- puscules in their interior, from which may be seen arising additional nervous fibres. The precise use of the gangha is, however, unknown. , The sympathetic ganglia are generally larger than tne cerebro-spinal, are contained in a fibrous capsule, are red in their colour (instead of white), and are very vascular.CEKEBKAL NEEVES. 165 They are composed of both grey and white matter, con- taining many ganglionic corpuscules, and may be looked upon as so many nervous centres. Tlie cerebro-spinal nerves, of which we are now about to speak, are generally divided into two sets, the cerebral and spinal, the former containing nine pairs, the latter thirty-one pairs of nerves. CEKEBRAL NERVES, 'The first pair, or the olfactory nerves, take their origin by three roots, the outer and inner one medullary, the central one cineritious. The first, which is longest, arises from the fissure of Sylvias ; the middle from the substantia perforata antica; the internal one, from the substance of the anterior lobe. They soon unite, forming a M'hite tri- angular cord, lodged in a groove at the base of the anterior lobe, about half an inch from the median fissure; and covered by the arachnoid, only on their under surface. Each cord is then expanded upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, to form the olfactory bulb, composed of white and grey matter, which gives out numerous medul- lary filaments, to pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. These filaments, which receive an invest- ment from the dura mater, are distributed upon the septum, roof of the nose, and the superior turbinated bones, by three series of filaments. The second pair, or optic nerves, arise from the corpus geniculatum externum and nates. They wind round the crura cerebri, and unite, forming the optic commissure in front of the pituitary fossa, and between the anterior chnoid processes; they then separate and diverge, pass through the foramen opticum, into the orbit, perforate the sclerotic coat, to the inner side of and below the axis of the eye, then pass through the choroid, and are lost or ter minate in the retina. In the commissure, some of the fibres of each nerve cross to the opposite side: those on the outside of each nerve seem to pass forwards on the same side, to their destination. A transverse section of the optic nerve in the orbit presents a dark central spot, n^^m.^ porus opticus, dependent upon the arteria centralis retinae, which enters tms nerve and runs along its centre.166 ANATOMY. The third pair, or molores omlorum, arise from the inner edge of the crura cerebri; they always run downwards and forwards, between the posterior artery of the cerebrum, and anterior artery of the cerebellum, then perforate the dura mater, pass along the inner side of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, then traverse the sphenoidal fissure, enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, and divide into two portions, superior and inferior. The superior portion gives off a branch to the superior rectus, and another to the levator palpebrse superioris ; the inferior portion, larger, gives off three branches, one to the internal rectus, one to the inferior rectus, and the third to the inferior oblique muscle. The last gives a filament to the lenticular ganglion. They all run along the ocular surface of the muscles. In the cavernous sinus, this nerve is at first situated higher than the other nerves, but, on passing into the orbit, it is below them; just before entering, it communicates with the carotic plexus and ophthalmic division of the fifth. The fourth pair, or pathetici, arise from the valve ot Vieussens, immediately beneath the tubercula quadrige- mina; they run along the side of the pons variolii, perforate the dura mater, pass within the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, then through the sphenoidal fissure, and are distri- buted to the trochlearis, or superior obhque muscle of the eye They are the smallest and longest of the cerebral nerves within the cranium. In the orbit they mount up over the levator palpebrse muscle, lying between it and the periosteum; and, as they enter the orbit, are the highest of the orbital nerves. Arnold describes a small branch from this nerve in the cranium, which runs back upon the tentorium almost as far as the lateral sinus. The Jlfth pair of nerves, or trigemini, resemble spinal nerves, being both for motion and sensation, and having, like them, a double origin. They seem to emerge from the junction of the pons varolii with the crura cerebelli. The anterior or smallest fasciculus may be traced to the corpus pyramidale. The large posterior fasciculus, com- posed of nearly a hundred filaments, is derived from the corpus restiforrae, conferring sensation. The nerve ot each side passing forwards, enters a sheath of dura mater upon the petrous bone, and the posterior root, by ex-CEREBRAL NERVES. 167 panding, forms the semilunar ganglion, or Casserian plexus, which rests on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and part of the sphenoid bone. From this plexus three trunks are given ofi", the ophthalmic, superior, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic trunk, the smallest of the three, and niost mternal, runs along the inner side of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the thii-d and fourth nerves communicating slightly with the cavernous plexus, then separates into three branches, which perforate the dura mater separately, to enter the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure,—they are the following : 1. 1\xt lachTymal branch, smallest and lowest of the three, passes between the orbit and external rectus, to be distributed to the lachry- r^l! w '• Tl,'^"*''"''. '"'^ "PP" ^y^^'l- I' communicates, by a small twig, with the superior maxillary. ^ nJVi??f -^T'"^ 1''^"'^' ^'"'S^'*' P^'^^^ the orbit, between it and the levator palpebral superioris; midway in its orbital coiu-se t divides into two branches, the .upra-orUtal and supra.trocuZT'i^ ^llT"^^' ^^'^''1'^^ °f superior oblique, and runs beneath the muscles, then perforates the occipito-frontaUs and "s paSs out ^ f ^r^-^'^ ''^^ tbetlt'filamen passes out at the supra-orbital notch, is distributed to the occipito frontalis, and parts about the forehead, communicating, as well as t?; other, with the temporal branches of the portio dura 3. The nasal branch passes between the two heads of the external rec us then crosses over the optic nerve, communicating in itrcourse with the lenticular ganghon, and giving off two ciliary branche , wS accompany the ciliary nerves of the lenticular ganglion • and at the anteJitr- '"^''^'^ f"^^'^^'^ orbitarium inte™ o? hp . 'i""' "^/r' P'^'^i^S ^1°^°^° *he anterior fdf™ of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, is distributed to the senium and extremity of the nose. The infra-trochlear twig is distnbutS to the root of the nose, the tensor tarsi, and lachrymal sac, upper eveUd and caruncula, and communicates with the supra4rochkaMierve ' The superior maxillary nerve leaves the cranium bv the foramen rotundum, then crosses the spheno-maxillarv Lsa passes along the infra-orbitar canal/escapes at Se^nS orbitar foramen, under cover of the orbicularis palpebmrum rpon rrheek." '''''''''''' '^"^ ^^timately^fstiibuTed In its course it gives off the following branches • twig communicates first with the^achrffn^rt pf^^168 ANATOMY. malar bone, and passes into the temporal muscle, communicating ■srith the deep temporal nerves; the malar branch also perforates the malar bone, and is distributed upon the upper part of the clieek, under the name of subcutaneus mala, commuuicating with filaments of the portio dura. ^ 2. Two descending branches, communicating with Meckel's ganglion. 3. Two dental branches, of which one perforates the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, to supply the molar teeth; the other filament runs superficially to supply the gums. 4. Anterior dental, for the supply of the bicuspid, canine, and incisor teeth. It passes down in a canal in front of the antrum, and communicates with the posterior dental ner?e. Its terminating infra-orbital filaments communicate with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and facial twigs of the portia dura, upon the cheek. The inferior maxillary nerve, consisting of two separate portions, viz., the tliird trunk of the ganglion and the anterior root of the fifth, which had not entered into the structure of the gangUon, but lay beneath it towards the outer side, passes from the cranium by the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The two portions unite as soon as they pass through the foramen, but appear to separate almost immediately, in the form of two trunks. . The superior and smallest one gives off the following branches: 1 The deep temporal branches, two in number, distributed to the temporal muscle. They perforate the muscle, and communicate with the superficial temporal nerves. . • 2. The buccal branch, supplying the buccmator muscle and muscles of the cheek. . , ^ ., , 3 The pterygoid branch, chiefly to the mternal pter>-goid muscle. 4. The masseteric branch, for the supply of the masseter muscle. Thus we observe that the muscles^ of mastication are supplied by the third division of the fifth pair. The inferior trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into three branches, the gustatory, the temporo-auricular, and inferior dental. 1. The gustatory nerve descends, first between the two pterygoid muscles, next between the internal pterygoid muscle and ramus of the lower jaw, then arrives upon the upper surface of the myloliyoia muscle, and outer surface of the hyoglossus, accompanies there tlie Whartonian duct, runs over the sublingual gland, and uhjmateiy arrives at the tip and sides of the tongue, to be distributed to the napilla: In its course it unites with the inferior dental nerve, and also with the chorda tympani nerve, which attends it for a shortCEREBRAL NERVES. 169 distance, then leaves it to pass on to the sub-maxillary ganglion. Filaments are given off from it, to the— Gums, Sub-maxillary gland, Hypoglossal nerve. Sub-lingual gland, and terminating filaments to the substance and papUlse of the tongue. 2. The temporo-auricular or superficial temporal, commencing usually by two filaments, passes outwards between the condyle of the lower jaw and external auditory meatus. It runs within the parotid gland, and in that situation gives off anterior and posterior branches. The anterior one passes upwards with the temporal artery, to the side of the head ; the posterior filament is distributed to the anterior parts of the ear. This nerve, before its division, gives off little twigs to the otic ganglion, the temporo-maxillary articulation, the parotid gland the lower part of the ear, the external auditory meatus, and com' municating twigs to the sympathetic. 3. The inferior dental nerve passes first between the pterygoid muscle, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the lower jaw and enters the dental canal; reaching the foramen mentale, it divides into two branches, one runs forwards to the symphysis, unitine with the opposite nerve, and supplying the canine and incisor teeth, the other passing out, called mental nerve, is distributed to the soft parts about the chin and lower lip. In its course it receives a large short branch from the gustatory and just before entering the dental foramen, it gives off the mylo- hyoidean branch, to the mylo-hyoid muscle, the sub-maxillary gland and digastric muscle. ' ° ' teeth distributes twigs to the molar and bicuspid The sixth pair, or abducentes, arise from the junction of the pons varolii with the corpora pyramidalia; they then pass through the dura mater; and traverse the inner part of the cavernous sinus, and on the outside of the carotid artery, give filaments to communicate with the svmpa thetic ; they then pass through the sphenoidal fissure run between the two heads of the external rectus, divide into filaments, and are distributed to the external rectus or abductor muscle of the eye. ' The seventh pair consist of two portions, the mrtio dura and portio mol/is. ^^^poitio The portio dura, ov facial nerve, arises from a fissure between the corpora ohvaria and restiformia, near the pos- enor edge of the pons varolii; it passes along the meatus auditorms internus in a groove of the portio molliT and here unites wxth it sUghtly, then enters the canal of 8ANATOMY. 170 Fallopius, where it forms a ganglionic enlargement, and unites with the great superficial petrosal nerve the small superficial petrosal and external superficial petrosal nerve from the sympathetic; it then passes downwards behind the tympanum, giving a small branch to the stapedius, and, according to some modern anatomists, gives off the chorda tympani nerve. It next emerges at the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and, before its ultimate division, gives off three smaU branches: 1. The posterior auricular to the occipital muscle, the retrahens aurem, and external meatus. 2. The stylo-hyoid to the stylo-hyoid and digastricus muscles. 3. The digastric branch to the posterior beUy of the digastric muscle. These three filaments all communicate with the neigh- bouring nerves. The portio dura then enters the parotid gland, and divides into two, three, or more branches, named temporo- facial, and cervico-facial, which, by communicating fila- ments, form the pes anserinus; from this, three sets of branches pass off: 1. The temporal branches pass up over the zygoma, ramifying on the head and ear, and communicating with the occipital and frontal 2. The malar branches communicating with the superior and inferior maxillary nerves, and supplying the muscles of the face. 3. Descending branches communicating with the inferior maxillary on the lips and chin, and with the cervical nerves in the neck, suppljmg the platysma and integuments. The filaments of the portio dura give the power of motion to the various muscles upon which they are dis- tributed. . _ The portio mollis arises from the anterior part or floor of the fourth ventricle; it enters the meatus auditorius internus, in company with the portio dura, separated from it only by a small artery given off from the basilar: at the bottom of the canal it divides into minute filaments, which form two fasciculi: the anterior go to the cochlea, the posterior to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The eighth pair consists of three nerves : _ 1st. The glosso-pharyngeus arises from the side of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the corpus olivare and restiforme, and between the portio dura and nervusCEREBRAL NERVES. \Jl vagus; it passes forwards, and out of the cranium, by the foramen lacerum posterius, anterior to the jugular vein ; it descends perpendicularly almost in front of the carotid artery, passing between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo- glossus muscles, towards the root of the tongue; as it escapes from the cranium, it forms a ganglionic enlarge- ment, called the ganghon of Andersch. The branches given oiF from it have been minutely traced by Arnold {vide 'Icones Nervorum Capitis'}, and are the following: The tympanic branch from the ganglion, gives a filament to the carotid plexus, to the vidian in the hiatus Fallopii, and one to the otic ganglion. It is sometimes called Jacobson's nerve. A branch to anastomose with the portio dura. A branch to the nervus vagus and accessorius. Branches to the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscle. Pharyngeal branches to the pharyngeal plexus. TonsUlary branches. Terminal branches to the mucous membrane and follicles at the root of the tongue. 2d. The nervus vagus, par vagum, or pueumo-gastric nerve, arises just below the glosso-pharyngeus in the same fissure: it forms a flattened band, and passes out of the cranium by the foramen lacerum posterius, invested by a prolongation of dura mater, and here presents a ganglionic enlargement (its superior ganghon) ; just at its exit, it has a ganghform enlargement (its inferior ganglion), and com- municates with the hngual, the glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic nerves; it next hes upon the rectus capitis anticus major, descends in the neck enclosed in the carotid sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein; enters the thorax between the subclavian artery and vein,'on the right side, giving off the right recurrent branch, which curves round the subclavian artery, and runs along the side of the trachea to the larynx ; on the left side it enters the chest parallel with the left subclavian artery, and sends off a recurrent branch, which winds round the arch of the aorta to be distributed like the recurrent of the rieht side • It then gives fi^laments to the bronchi, and passes down- wards and backwards to the oesophagus, to which it sup- plies numerous fi aments, which interlace freely together formmg the oesophageal plexus; these reunite, ^nd form a trunk on each side of the oesophagus, that on the right172 AKATOMY. side being behind, that on the left being in front, and passing through the diaphragm, is finally distributed upon the stomach. . , The particular branches of the par vagum are the lol- lowing: 1 The pharyngeal branch, which, with filaments of the sympathetic, laryngeal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, forms the pharyngeal plexus upon the middle constrictor. 2 The superior laryngeal nerve, which descends on the inner side of the carotid artery, and divides into two branches; the external one distributed to the crico-thyroid muscle and the'thyroid gland; the other internal perforating the thyro-hyoid ligament is distnbuted to the epiglottis and its glands, the membrane hniiig the larynx, and anastomoses with the inferior thyroid. 3. Cardiac branches, to anastomose with the superficialis cordis. 4 The recurrent or inferior laryngeal passes along the side of the trachea, and reaching the larynx is distributed to all the proper laryngeal muscles, except the crico-thyroid; in its course it gives filaments to the pulmonary plexus, to the oesophagus and under surface of the trachea, to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and anastomoses with the superior laryngeal nerve. 5. BroncMal branches, forming, with the recurrent and sympathetic, the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexus. 6. (Esophageal branches, forming a plexus around the oesophagus. The terminating branches ramify on the stomach, anastomosing with the hepatic, coronary, and solar plexus. During the last few years, the majority of physiologists consider that the superior laryngeal nerve presides over sensation only, and the inferior laryngeal presides over the motion of the muscles of the larynx, and is consequently the true nerve of voice. 3d. The nervus accessoriiis, or superior posterior respi- ratory nerve, takes its origin in the cervical portion of the spinal cord, as low as the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra; it then passes into the cranium, through the foramen magnum; and quits it by the jugular foramen ; passing behind the internal jugular vein, it descends m the neck, perforating the sterno-mastoid muscle, to which it gives filaments, and is ultimately distributed to the trapezms muscle 'Yhe ninth, hypoglossal, or lingual, arises from between the corpora pyramidalia and corpora ohvaria: the fibres unite into a trunk on each side, which passes out at tne anterior condyloid foramen, internal to the par vagum aiid l^^lZheiic; it passes forward between the internal carotidCEllEBRAL NERVES. 173 artery and internal jugular vein, and descends and runs parallel with the lower margin of the digastric muscle; as it turns forward it hooks round the occipital artery, and here gives off its desceudens noni branch, then runs above the OS hyoides on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, and is ultimately distributed to the genio-hyo- glossus and hngualis muscles. The branches from it are the following: Filaments to connect it with the glosso-pharyngeal, nervus vagus, accessorius, sympathetic, and nervous loop of the atlas. The descmdens noni branch, which runs down upon the carotid sheath, and, anastomosing with filaments of the cervical nerves, forms an arch convex downwards, from which filaments are distributed to the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-tbyroid muscles. Filaments to the stylo-pharyngeus, constrictors of the pharynx and enco-thyroid muscle. Filaments to surrounding muscles. Filaments to communicate with gustatory and terminal filaments to the ImguaUs and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. Of the nine cranial nerves, some give special sensation, others ordinary sensation, and a third set motion to the parts they supply. The first is the nerve of the special sense of taste. The second is the nerve of the special sense of sight. The thu-d, fourth, and sixth nerves are motor, supplying the muscles of the eyeball. The fifth has a sensitive division, supplying the principal part of the face, and a motor division supplying the muscles of mastication. The portio mollis of the seventh nerve supplies the special sense of hearing, whilst the portio dura supplies all the muscles of the face with motion, excepting the muscles of mastication. The functions of the eighth pair are very various The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is considered by many authorities to be a nerve of taste. Some, bowever, consider that function to be fulfilled by the gustatory branch of the htth alone. It would seem to be more probable that both contribute to that function, inasmuch as injury to either nerve has been followed by more or less injury to the sense It is the opinion of many physiologists that the gustatory 18 the nerve of ordinary sensation to the tongue, and that the glosso-pharyngeal is the nerve of bitter taste.ANATOMY. 174 The pneumogastric nerve has different functions, ac- cording to the parts to which it is distributed. The spinal accessory appears to be only a motor nerve. The ninth cerebral nerve, called the hypoglossal, is the motor nerve of the tongue. Its function is undisputed. The spinal nerves consist of thirty-one pairs: eight cervical, including the suboccipital, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, and six sacral nerves. They arise by two fasciculi: those from the front give the power of motion ; those from behind give sensation : they pass through the dura mater, then unite and perforate the lateral foramina of the vertebral canal, dividing into an anterior and posterior series. The anterior are generally the largest. A ganglion is formed on the posterior fasci- culus, within the inter-vertebral foramen, before the union of the two branches. CEKVICAL NEUVES. The first cervical, or suboccipital, the smallest of the series, passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and arch of the atlas ; it then appears in the triangular space bounded by the rectus capitis posticus and obhque muscles, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The posterior one gives filaments to the small adjacent muscles and complexus, and a descending filament to the next nerve. The anterior branch runs forwards to the anterior surface of the spinal column, where it gives off the following filaments: One to the second cervical nerve, descending before the atlas, and forming the nervous loop of the atlas. „ nervus vagus. „ lingual nerve and first cervical ganghon. The next three cervical nerves, uniting together by an- terior descending branches, are described as forming the cervical plexus. Their posterior branches maybe described as given off separately. The second cervical nerve emerges between the atlas and vert, dentata. The posterior branch named great occipital nerve, larger than the anterior, runs upwards and backwards towards the occiput, and perforates the complexus muscle; after which it ascends with the occipital artery, and is distributed over the scalp, communicating with the frontalCEEYICAL NEKVES, 1/5 branches of the ophthalmic, ascending branches of the pes anserinus, and auricular branch of the third cervical nerve. In its course it gives filaments to the— First and third cervical nerves; posterior recti, and oblique mHScles; splenius, and complexus. The third cervical nerve emerges between the vertebra dentata and third cervical vertebra. Its posterior branch, smaller than that of the second, winds backwards, perforates the muscles to become sub- cutaneous, and is distributed to the back of the head and neck. It gives off filaments to the second and foiurth cervical nerves, and the various contiguous muscles. The fourth cervical nerve emerges, like the former, from between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. Its pos- terior branch is very small; it runs between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrse, gives filaments to the complexus splenius and trapezius, perforates the two latter muscles, and terminates in the integuments of the neck. The anterior branches of the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves unite by filaments, soon after their exit; they communicate by filaments with the superior cervical ganglion, sometimes with the middle ganglion. They form the cervical plexus. This plexus rests upon the splenius colli, the anterior border of the scalenus medius and levator anguli scapulae, and is covered over by the sterno- mastoid muscle: the branches given off from it may be divided into superficial and deep. Most of the former are seen winding round the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to reach its external surface ; and some descending as far as the clavicle. The superficial branches are the following : 1. Posterior, or small occipital, ascends along the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, giving filaments to the back ot the ear and occipital integuments. It anastomoses with the nervus accessonus and portio dura. 2. Middle, or great auricular nerve, first crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle a short distance above the external jugular vein, ascends to- wards the parotid gland where it divides into filaments; some entei- he gland and unite with the portio dura, others mount up in front of afeuu'he head''''° ''"fl are distributed to the integuments 3. The anterior branch, transverse cervical or superficialis colli.176 ANATOMT, ascends and inclines towards the submaxillary gland, supplying fila- ments to the digastric muscle and platysma myoides, and to the submaxillary ganglion, or plexus; thus communicating with the lingual and chorda tympani. 4. The descending filaments pass between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscle, and are distributed to the integuments about the clavicle, acromion, the omo-hyoid, and serratus magnus muscle. They may be named supra-clavicular, supra-acromial, and subclavicular. The deep branches of the cervical plexus are the fol- lowing : Some, to communicate with the nervus accessorius, and to supply the trapezius and levator anguli scapulie. Branches to unite with the descendens noni, forming an inverted arch, from which filaments, as before described, pass off. The phrenic, chiefly derived from the third and fourth, receives also a filament from the fifth cervical nerve. It descends in the neck, upon the anterior scalenus muscle; enters the chest, between the subclavian artery and vein, communicating here with the nervus vagus, or recurrent nerve, and inferior cervical ganglion; it then passes anterior to the root of the lungs, runs between the pleura and pericardium, which it grooves, and arrives at the diaphragm, to the muscular fibres of which it is principally distributed; on the right side, according to some anatomists, it sends filaments through the opening of the vena cava, to the surface of the liver; others penetrating the diaphragm, and reaching its under surface, accompany the branches of the phrenic artery, to reach the solar plexus. The left phrenic nerve is longer than the right, having to wind round the apex of the heart. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, with the first dorsal, by their anterior branches, and filaments from the sympathetic, form the brachial plexus. The posterior branches of the four inferior cervical nerves are very small, and are distributed to the deep-seated muscles and integuments of the immediately surrounding parts. The nerves about to form the brachial plexus pass out from between the scaleni muscles, and then combine to form this plexus. The fifth and sixth form together a single trunk, as also the eighth cervical and first dorsal, whilst the seventh cervical runs some distance before joining the plexus. The plexus passes downwards and outwards beneath the clavicle, and over the first rib ; and in the axilla, oppo- site the coracoid process, divides into its terminal branches. Its branches consist of those distributed to parts above the arm, and those which go to the arm entirely; of theNERVES OF THE ARM. 1/7 latter there are six, namely, the external and internal cutaneous, the circumflex, ulnar, median, and musculo- spiral, or radial: of these, three only reach the fingers, namely, the ulnar, median, and musculo-spiral. The first series from the plexus includes the suprascapular, sub- scapular, and thoracic nerves. The suprascapular nerve, given off from the plexus, high up, passes outwards and backwards towards the superior margin of the scapula, accompanying the artery of the same name. It runs through the supra-scapular notch, where it gives off a branch to the supra-spinatus muscle, and a twig to the shoulder-joint, and passing beneath the acromion process, is distributed to the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. The subscapular branches are generally three; they run down in the course of the subscapular artery, supplying filaments to the sub- scapularis muscle, teres major, and latissimus dorsi. The thoracic nerves are three or four in number; two of these run down m front of the axillary vessels, to reach the pectoralis major and minor, upon which they are distributed ; tbe other, named posterior thoracic, descends behind the axiUary vessels to the inside of the axilla, distributing filaments to the serratus magnus muscle. It is the posterior inferior respiratory nerve of Sur C. Bell, NERVES OF THE ARM, The internal cutaneous nerve is the smallest of the six brachial branches of the plexus before mentioned- it descends along the inside of the arm, under the fascia, and divides near the elbow, into tviro branches, which perforate the fascia, and then run quite superficially. Before the division, it gives off filaments which perforate the fascia and are distributed to the integuments covering the triceps and biceps. The terminal branches are the following: The anterior branch passes over the median basilic vein and descends as far as the wrist: in its course giving filaments to the integumen s; some to communicate with the external cutaneous and some to join with the other branch of the same nerve The internal branch indines quite to the inner side and back of the fore-arm, and runs down to the wrist; in its course it gives filaments to the integuments, some to unite with the other branch and te minating filaments to the inner border of the hand. Some anatomists now describe a seventli nerve as arising from the plexus and smaller than the others, under thf name ot the small cutaneous- nerve, or nerve of Wrisbera which was formerly described as derived from the secoml and third mtercostal nerves. Assuming that it comes W 8§ANATOMY. 178 the brachial plexus it pierces the fascia of the arm about its middle on the inner side, and is distributed by fila- ments, to the integument as far as the elbow in front of the inner condyle, and behind about the olecranon. The external cutaneous nerve, also named musculo-cuta- neous and j^erforans Casserii, larger than the former, pra- ceeds from the upper and external portion of the plexus : descends, and generally perforates the coraco-brachialis muscle; then runs downwards and outwards under the biceps and upon the brachialis anticus muscle; then be- tween the biceps and supinator radii longus; it then per- forates the fascia and becomes superficial, runs between the median cephalic vein and fascia, and descends as far as the wrist, where it terminates. Its branches are the following: iMuscular filaments to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis ^"Filaments to the integuments, communicating with those of the internal cutaneous and musculo-spiral. Terminating filaments to the root of the thumb and the wrist, communicating with cutaneous filaments of the radial. The circumflex nerve proceeds from the posterior part of the plexus, backwards and outwards, beneath the mterior edge of the subscapularis muscle, accompanies the postenor circumflex artery behind the humerus, and wmds round it, to reach its anterior-external surface, where it is finaUy distributed to the deltoid muscle. It a so gives filaments to the teres minor muscle, one to the shoulder-jomt, and filaments to the integument covermg the triceps. ThewZwar nerve arises from the inner side ot the plexus, descends along the inner side of the arm, supported by the short head of Ae triceps, as far as the space between the inner condyle and the olecranon; here it passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnans, and along the fore-arm, rests upon the flexor digitorum profundus, to the ulnar side of the artery, overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris ; lower down it runs distinctly along the radial edsce of the flexor ulnaris; when arrived at the wri*t n passes over the annular ligament with the ulnar artery and in the hand divides into two terminating branches t e superficial and deep. The filaments given off by it are tue following:NERVES OP THE ARM. I79 Two articular branches to the elbow-joint. A branch to the flexor carpi ulnaris. A branch to the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. Filaments to the wrist-joint. A branch quits it, about two inches above the wrist, runs under the flexor carpi ulnaris, and arrives at the siu-face of the extensor ulnaris to reach the little finger. It gives a filament to the ulnar side of the httle finger, and another which bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the ring and little finger, and communicates with the digital filaments of the musculo-spiral. The superficial branch of the hand goes to supply the little finger and half the ring finger; one branch of it runs along the muscles of the little finger, giving them filaments, and courses along the ulnar side of this finger, as far as the tip ; the other filament runs along the surface of the adductor minimi digiti, and having united with a fila- ment from the median, on arriving at the head of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, bifmrcates to supply the opposed sides of the rino- and little fingers. ° The deep-seated palmar branch forming the deep arch of nerves, smks deep in the hand, passing beneath the adductor minimi digiti' and runnmg upon the interossei muscles, beneath the flexor tendons and termmatmg by filaments to the adductor poUicis. It gives fila- ments to the small muscles of the fingers, and to the interossei muscles, and two internal lumbricales. The median nerve takes its origin from the brachial plexus, by two roots which embrace the axillary artery; they soon unite, to form a single nerve, which descends about half way down the arm, on the outer side of the brachial artery; after which it inclines over the artery then gets to its inner side, gradually diverging from it, so that at the bend of the elbow there is a distinct space between them; in this course it rests upon the coraco- brachiahs and brachialis anticus, internal to the biceps muscle; it then passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends between the flexor sublimis and profundus, passes under the annular hgament at the wnst and terminates in the hand by its digital branches. Ihe branches and filaments given off by it are the fol- lowing : J ^ i.\jL Numerous WMscM/ar twigs in the fore-arm tn all • not supplied by the ulnar. ' " ^'"^ "^^scles The anterior interosseous nerve, which accompanies the corresnond ing artery runs between the flexor profundus and flexor pollicisToE ' as tar as the pronator radu quadratus; it runs beno^ll, tl 1 „ ' forates the interosseous ligament to arrive nrtl '""^ P'^'"' hand, to which it distributes filaments '^'''''^ "'^180 ANATOMY. A small branch near the wrist passes over the annular ligament to the skin of the palm of the hand. The terminal digital branches are five; and, with a branch from the ulnar, form the supei-ficial palmar arch of nerves : The first goes along the outside of the thumb, to its extremity, giving filaments to the abductor, opponens, and half the flexor brevis. The second runs along the inside of the thumb. The third gives filaments to the abductor indicis and first lumbricalis, and runs along the outside of the index finger. The fourth takes the course of the second metacarpal space, gives a filament to the second lumbricahs, and bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers. The fifth lies in the next metacarpal space, and bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers; this branch commu- nicates with the ulnar nerve, as before mentioned. The musculo-spiral or radial nerve, generally the largest branch of the brachial plexus, emerging from its centre and posterior part, soon after its origin inclines down- •wards, outwards, and backwards, winds round the humerus, accompanied by the superior profunda artery; it next appears between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, between which it runs as far as the elbow, where it divides into an anterior or external and a deep-seated branch. The anterior brancli descends with the supmator longus muscle, and. at about the middle third of the fore-arm, arrives at the outer side of the radial artery, which it accompanies for about two or three inches ; it then leaves it, passing under the supinator muscle, running superficially over the extensor muscles of the thumb, and just above the wrist, dividing into terminal branches which reach the back of the hand. The filaments from it are- Terminal filaments, generally three in number; one to the radial side of the thumb. , ^ , x. t j *i „ One bifurcates to supply the ulnar side of the thumb and the radial side of the iudex finger. , ., . ^, . , , The third bifurcates to supply the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers, and occasionally a fourth supphes the opposed sides ot the middle and ring fingers. The deep-seated branch, (posterior interosseous,) larger than the other, passes backwards and downwards beneath the supinator longus and two radial extensors, then per- forates the supinator brevis, and divides into several hla- nients. Some to the extensors of the carpus thumb and fingers.181 DORSAL.NERTES. One named posterior interosseous, which descends with the deep- seated extensor muscles, as far as the back of the carpus. It supplies the muscles in its course. The filaments of the musculo-spiral given oS before its division, are the following: Muscular twigs to the inner and middle head of the triceps. Internal cutaneous to the inner side of the arm. Muscular branches to the external head of the triceps anconeus, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and frequently the brachialis anticus. External cutaneous branches, the superior smallest, accompanying the cephalic vein as far as the elbow, the inferior extending along the back of the arm and forearm, as far as the wrist. In addition to the nerves above described as coming from the brachial plexus, the inside of the arm is supplied with branches given off from the second aud third inter- costal, and have been named the cutaneous nerves of Wrisberg; but which occasionally proceed from the bra- chial plexus. DOSSAL NERVES. The dorsal or intercostal nerves are twelve on each side. They emerge from the intervertebral foramina; the first between the first and second dorsal, the last between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra. Immediately after their exit they divide, like the cervical, into anterior and posterior branches ; the posterior branches run backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebr^e to supply the deep muscles of the back and the integuments. The anterior branches named also intercostal, run along the intercostal spaces, below the vein and artery, and near the margin of each rib, between the external and intercostal muscles; about midway between the spine and sternum they give off a large superficial branch. The continued portion of the seven superior nerves is distributed to the intercostal muscles and triangularis sterni, and then perforates these, to be lost finally in the pectoralis maior and integuments. The next four intercostal nerves, corresponding with the four superior false ribs, on reaching the ends of the cartilages, pass forwards between the internal oblique aud transversahs muscles to reach the rectus abdominis sup- plying filaments to all these muscles.182 ANATOMY. The filaments from these several dorsal nerves are as follows: From each a filament or two of communication to the contiguous ganglion of the sympathetic. The first dorsal nerve is large, and enters almost entirely into the formation of the brachial plexus. The superficial branches of the second, after perforating the ex- ternal intercostal muscles crosses the axilla, descends to the inside of the arm, as low down as the inner condyle, communicating witfi the internal cutaneous nerve. It is named iniercosto-hurneral nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg; but, more recently, anatomists give this name to the small cutaneous nerve of the brachial plexus. The superficial branches of the seven succeeding intercostal nerves, are distributed to the mammae, pectoraUs major, external oblique muscle, and integuments, according to then- situations. The twelfth dorsal differs from all the others; it first sends a branch to the first lumbar nerve, then passes for- wards and a httle downwards upon the quadratus lum- borum, at the edge of which it divides into two filaments; the deep one passes forwards to the space between the transversalis and internal oblique muscle, to reach the rectus, supplying filaments to each; the superficial fila- ment runs between the internal and external oblique muscles, supplying them and the integuments, and gives off a small lateral cutaneous branch, which passes over the crest of the ilium down to the gluteal region. LUMBAR NERVES. The lumbar nerves are five in number, and have a double origin like the dorsal nerves. They form part of the cauda equina. They pass out of the canal at the inter-vertebral foramina, and, soon after their exit, divide into anterior and posterior branches : the first emerges between the first and second lumbar vertebra, the fifth between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The posterior branches take a course backwards, between the corresponding transverse processes of the vertebrae, and supply the deep lumbar muscles. The anterior branches pass downwards and somewhat outwards, are connected together by twigs, and, with the filaments of the sympathetic, form an interlacement, named Lumbar plexus. These nerves increase in size from above downwards.LUMBAR NEEVES. 183 The Lumbar plexus is formed iu the substance of the psoas muscle, by the four superior lumbar nerves, and receives branches from the last dorsal and the sympathetic gangHa, along the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. The branches given off by the plexus are : musculo-cutaneous, external cutaneous, external pudic, crural, obturator, and a communicating branch to the sacral plexus. The musculo-cutaneous branches, {ilio hypogastric, and ilio inguinal,) two in number, chiefly from the first lumbar nerve, pass through the psoas muscle, forwards upon the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum, to reach the crista ilii. These branches may be considered external and internal. The external, passes between the transversalis and internal obUque muscles, and gives off filaments which supply the transversahs and ihacus muscles, and subcutaneous filaments to the gluteus medius and maximus ; one part of it passes forwards along the crista of the ilium, then follows Poupart's ligament, and gives filaments to the pubes, and scrotum, and in females to the labia. The internal branch runs between the transversalis and internal oblique, and then between the latter and external oblique muscle, and is ultimately lost in the groin and scrotum. The external cutaneous nerve, arising chiefly from the second lumbar, passes downwards and forwards, upon the ihac fascia, towards the anterior superior spinous process of the iHum, below which it passes and gets out of the pelvis; it pierces the fascia lata, and is distributed by two filaments; one passing downwards and sub-cutaneous to the outer part of the thigh, the other running down as far as the outside of the knee. The external pudic nerve, also named genito-crural or external spermatic, appears to come ofi" chiefly from the second lumbar nerve; it pierces the psoas muscle, and descends upon its anterior surface, and at the crural arch divides mto two branches, named internal and external. The internal branch accompanies the spermatic cord of the male or round hgament in the female; and is distributed to the cremaster ^nd coverings of the testicle and adjacent parts of the groin; or to the pubes and labia of the female. The ea:ternal branch passes under Poupart's ligament, perforatesANATOMY. 184 the fascia lata, and is distributed to the glands and parts in front of the thigh. The crural nerve appears to be derived from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. It is at first placed between the psoas and iliacus muscles, descends under the fascia iliaca, and then passes under the crural arch on the outside of the psoas muscle, which separates it from the femoral artery. In this course it gives twigs to the iliacus and psoas muscles. After passing Poupart's ligament it divides into several branches, superficial and deep. The superficial branches soon pierce the fascia lata, and extend as far as the front and inner side of the knee. The deep branches may be divided into— External, internal, and descending. The external branches pass in front of the iliacus and psoas, sup- plying filaments to the sartorius, rectus, two vasti, and crurseus muscles. The filament supplying the vastus internus sends a small twig to perforate the fibrous capsule of the knee-joint. An internal branch passes beneath the femoral vessels to supply the pectineus. The descending branches accompany the femoral artery; one, shorter, runs on its outer side, giving filaments to the sartorius and the vastus internus, and gives a small twig to the knee-joint. The longer branch runs upon or within the sheath of the artery, and passes under the fascia, which extends from the adductors to the vastus internus; it quits the artery at the opening of the great ad- ductor, and runs along the inside of the knee, and then accompanies the internal saphena vein, as far as the dorsum of the foot, where it terminates, by sending filaments to the inner side of the foot and great toe. This branch is named nei'vus sapkenus interims. The obturator nerve seems to arise from the third and fourth lumbar; it passes along the inner edge of the psoas, between the peritoneum and pelvic fascia to reach the obturator foramen, which it passes through, and then gives ofi" branches— to the external oMurator muscle ; a filament tp the hip-joint; a deep posterior branch to the adductor magnus; and from thence a filament passes down deep in the popliteal space, and perforates the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, to which it is distributed; an anterior branch to the gracilis, and long and short ad- ductors, and inside of the knee. The lumbosacral nerve is the last given ofi" from the lumbar nerves. It is formed from the anterior branch of185 LUMBAR NERVES. the fifth and a twig from the fourth; it passes down to the pelvis, and unites with the first sacral, so as to contribute to form the sacral plexus. The only nerve given off from it is the superior gluteal nerve, which passes out by the sacro-sciatic notch, with the gluteal artery, and is distributed to the gluteal muscles, and tensor vaginae femoris. The sacral nerves are six on each side, each consisting of an anterior and posterior branch; they arise from the Cauda equina, and emerge from tbe sacral foramina. The four superior posterior branches pass out at the posterior sacral foramina, perforate the tendon of the sacro-lunabaUs and become superficial, and are distributed to the skin covering the nates. The inferior posterior branches run downwards to supply the integuments about the anus. The anterior branches pass out at the sacral foramina, decreasing in size as they come out, from above downwards. They all communicate with the sacral gangha of the sym- pathetic. The three superior nerves, with descending branches from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, ^nd a branch from the fourth sacral, form the sacral plexus. The fourth nerve gives filaments to the hypogastric plexus, levator ani, coccygeus, the skin above the anus, and sphincter ani. The fifth and sixth sacral nerves are very small, and are lost in the coccygeus and sphincter ani. The sacral plexus, formed as above mentioned, rests upon the pyriformis muscle, and gives off internal and external branches. The internal branches are— Muscular, Hajmorrlioidal, Vaginal, Uterine, Vesical, Pudic. The external branches are— Great Sciatic, Small Sciatic. The muscular twigs are distributed to the pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris. The hcemorrhoidal branches pass to the muscular and mucous coat of the rectum, and communicate with the neighbouring nerves. The vaginal and uterine branches ramify, as their names imply. The vesical branches pass to the lower part of the186 ANATOMY. bladdei', and supply its muscular and mucous coat, the prostate gland, and vesiculse seminales; and in the female, the urethra. The pudic nerve is the largest of the internal branches, and appears to come chiefly from the third sacral. It follows very closely the course of the pudic artery: the branches given off by it are— A superficial perineal branch, wliicli gives off long twigs to the sphincter ani and margin of the anus, and filaments to the erector penis, accelerator urinae, and transversus peiinaei, and is lost upon the dartos and scrotum. Branches to the integuments, urethra, and glaus penis. The superficial perineal branch is largest in the female, and is distributed chiefly upon the labia. The small sciatic nerve gets out from the pelvis below the margin of the pyriformis muscle, to the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, supported by the superior gamellus, and overlapped by the gluteus maximus. Its branches are— Inferior gluteal consisting of small filaments, to the gluteus maximus. Posterior and internal cutaneous, which passes inwards, beneath the tuber ischii, and, perforating the fascia, is distributed to the integuments about the inside of the thigh, scrotum, or labia. Middle cutaneous pierces the fascia, and descends, supplymg the skin, as far as the popUteal space and upper half of the back of the leg. The great sciatic nerve is the largest nerve of the body. It passes out of the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle, then descends between the great trochanter and tuber ischii, over the small rotators, viz., the gemelli, obturator interaus, and quadratus femoris, then rests upon the adductor magnus, under cover of the biceps, and descends towards the popliteal space. There are small branches given off by it, viz. : Filaments to the flexor muscles. Superficial branches which pierce the fascia, and are dis- tributed to the outside of the knee, forming external cutaneous branches. Filaments to the external rotators. „ hip-joint. „ abductor magnus; and ,, short head of the biceps. The great sciatic nerve divides about midway down thelUMBAR NERVES. 187 thigh into two branches, the tibial and pej'oneal, the former being named popliteal till it reaches the leg, and appears to be the proper continuation of the sciatic nerve. The popliteal nerve passes down in the popliteal space, under the fascia, but superficially to the artery and vein ; after passing the joint it rests on the popliteus muscle, under cover of the gastrocnemius, then crosses the posterior tibial artery, and descends on its outer side, and is here properly named posterior tibial nerve ; it then passes down with the artery, and in the sole of the foot divides into external and internal plantar nerves. The branches given oflf by this nerve are: Muscular twigs in its course. Articular branches to the knee-joint. A long branch given otf in the popliteal space, (named communicans tibia, or communicans poplitcei,) descends between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, then over its posterior surface, running downwards to the outer border of the tendo achiUis; it accompanies the saphena minor vein, and about the middle of the leg unites with a similar branch sent off from the peroneal nerve. This external saphenous nerve passes behind the outer ankle to the dorsum of the foot, where it divides into filaments, which extend to the fourth and fifth digital phalanges. In its course down the leg it gives filaments which pierce the fascia and become subcutaneous. The posterior tibial nerve in its course down the leg supplies filaments to the muscles in its immediate proximity, viz., the plantaris, gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis posticus, and long flexors of the leg, and lower down gives filaments to the ligaments of the anlcle, bursa and fascia about the tendo achilhs. In the hollow of the foot this nerve gives off" a filament to the integuments of the sole, and then divides into ex- ternal and internal plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve, the larger of the two, takes the course of the internal plantar artery, gives branches to the abductorpoUicis, flexor brevis digitorum, andaccessorius, and divides into four filaments, very like the median in the hand; one branch, the smallest, passes to the inside of the great toe, the three others bifurcate to supply the opposed sides of the first, second, third, and fourth toes, gmng filaments to the lumbricales and interossei muscles • the fourth nerve gives off a filament to communicate with the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve188 ANATOMY, The external plantar nerve runs forwards between the flexor brevis and accessorius, in its course giving a branch to the abductor minimi digiti: it then divides into a super- ficial and deep branch. The superficial branch gives off a filament to the outside of the little toe, and then runs in the space between the fourth and fifth toe, giving a com- municating filament to the fourth terminating branch of the internal plantar nerve, and afterwards separates into two filaments to supply the opposed sides of the fourth and fifth toes. The deep-seated branch runs close upon the metatarsal bones, supplying filaments to the interossei, flexor brevis poUicis, and transversalis pedis muscles. The peroneal ox fibular nerve, one of the branches of the great sciatic, in its course is inclined outwards, and descends between the biceps and outer head of the gas- trocnemius, to reach the head of the fibula: a little below this it winds round the neck of the bone, and divides into two branches, the anterior tibial, or interosseous, and the musculo-cutaneous: the latter, in its direction, appears to be the continuation of the nerve, and descends between the peroneus longus and extensor communis digitorum longus, giving branches to them in its course. About the middle of the leg it escapes from between the muscles and descends between the extensor muscles and fascia, and divides into two branches. The external branch descends and passes in front of the outer ankle, reaches the dorsum of the foot, and gives off three filaments, one to supply the dorsum of the little toe and outside of the foot; another passes between the fourth and third toes, supplying both, and a third is distributed between the second and third toes. The internal branch goes to supply the inner border of the foot, and gives a filament to the inner side of the great toe. The branches of the peroneal, in its course downwards, are, one in the popliteal space to the short head of biceps, terminating in the ligaments on the outside of the joint, some articular twigs, cutaneous branches, of which one is named communicans peronei, and which unites with the superficial branch of the posterior tibial nerve, to form the external saphenus nerve. The anterior tibial or interosseous nerve, directly after its separation from the other branch of the peroneal, winds189 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. forwards and inwards between the fibula, the pei'oneous longus, and extensor communis, to which it gives filaments ; it then arrives at the interosseous ligament, and accompanies the anterior tibial artery, lying to its outer side, but lower down, rather in front of it, in which position it passes under the annular ligament to the dorsum of the foot. In its descent it gives filaments to the adjacent muscles, and on the foot divides into two branches: One supplying the extensor brevis and the articulations of the foot. The other passes to supply the opposed sides of the first and second toes. SYMPATHETIC NEBVE. The sympathetic nerve (or nerves, as there is a similar structure on each side of the body,) was formerly called the great intercostal nerve, and was described as com- mencing in the cavernous sinus by filaments from the fifth and sixth cerebral nerves. It is now viewed as a separate nervous system, named ganglionic, and is de- scribed as consisting of a series of ganglia, or nervous centres, connected together by filaments, and communi- cating in various parts with filaments derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. From its apparent functions it is called the nerve of organic life. The ganglia are found in five regions of the body; namely, the head, neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, and are named accordingly. The cranial ganglia are the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, ganglion of Cloquet, submaxillarij, carotic, and a dis- puted one upon the arteria communicans, named ganglion of Ribes. Some anatomists now think fit to detach the cranial ganglia from the sympathetic, and describe them as offsets from the cerebro-spinal nerves. The cervical ganglia are three; The dorsal twelve; The lumbar five; The sacral, four or five on each side, with an azveos ganglion near the coccyx. The ganglion of Ribes is situated upon the anterior com- municating artery, receiving filaments from the carotic plexus. Its existence is disputed by many The ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion is situated within190 ANATOMY. the orbit between the optic nerve and external rectus muscle, and midway between the entrance of the optic nerve and the sclerotic coat. It is small, and is imbedded in a large quantity of fat. The filaments from it are— Anteriorly, ten to twelve, named short ciliary; they pass forwards, perforate the sclerotic coat at its posterior part, run forward between the sclerotic coat and choroid, and part of them pass into tlie iris; the greater number are lost in the ciliary ligament. Posteriorly, at the upper angle, a filament to the nasal nerve of the fifth; at the inferior angle, a filament to the inferior division of the third cerebral nerve; a third filament passes backwards to reach the carotic plexus. The spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, is situated in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, having in front the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone; behind, the roots of the pterygoid processes; internally, the palate bone and spheno- palatine foramen, and externally, the soft parts fiUing up the fossa. The branches of this ganghon are ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. .The ascending, or superior, are usually two, and large; they unite with the superior maxillary nerve. Some anatomists describe some small ascending filaments which enter the orbit by the pterygo-max- illary fissure to supply the periosteum. The descending are the palatine nerves, three m number. The areat palatine nerve descends in the great palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen, from which it runs forward beneath the arch of the palate, as far as the foramen incisivum, where it com- municates with Cloquet's ganglion. In its course it gives filaments, through the nasal plate of the palate bone, to the pitmtary membrane of the nose, filaments to the velum palati, tonsil, and soft parts of the palate and gums. . , , . . ■■• The middle palatine descends parallel with the former, in a distinct canal, and is distributed to the soft palate and tonsU. The small palatine, posterior to the two others, suppUes the tonsil and soft palate. The internal, or spheno-palatine, passes into the nasal fossne, througtt the sheno-palatine foramen, by three or four filaments. They ramify upon the spongy bones, but one branch passes down upon the floor of the nose, runs through the ductus iucisivus into the anterior pala- tine foramen, and communicates with Cloquet's gangUon. It is called the naso-palatiue nerve, or nerve of Cotunuius. The posterior branch is the vidian. It runs backwards through tne vidian canal, and having reached the foramen lacerum medium, dividesSYMPATHETIC NEKVE, 191 into two branches, the carotic and petrous. The carotic branch runs down to the carotid artery, uniting with the plexus of this artery, and is thus connected with the first cervical ganglion; the petrous branch (large sxiperficialpetrosal) perforates the cartilage, filling up the foramen lacerum, and then runs beneath the dura mater, towards the foramen innominatinu, which it enters; soon after its entrance it unites with the portio dura, and runs with it along the aqueduct of Fallopius to its inferior extremity, where it leaves it; it then perforates the petrous bone and gets into the tympanum, running between the long crus of the incus and handle of the malleus, hence called chorda tympani, and emerges at the fissura glasseri; it then descends to the inner side of the lower jaw, communicating with the gustatory, and is ultimately distributed to the submaxillary ganglion. N.B. The chorda tympani nerve is described by some as proceeding from the portio dura of the 7th. Cloquefs ganglion, or naso-palatine, is situate in the anterior palatine canal, or foramen. It receives from each side, superiorly, the naso-palatine nerve; inferiorly, a filament from the great palatine nerve; and sends two or three twigs to the mucous membrane, on the anterior surface of the hard palate. The submaxillary ganglion, or plexus, is small, and has a plexiform appearance. It rests upon the submaxillary gland. It communicates with the following nerves : Posteriorly, with the vidian. Superiorly, with the gustatory. Inferiorly, it gives ofif filaments to accompany the Whartonian duct, and twigs to the submaxillary gland. The otic ganglion, first minutely described by Arnold, is seated at the base of the skull, very near to the foram'en ovale, and to the inner side of the third division of the fifth pair ; internal to it is the Eustachian tube, and circumflexus palati; posteriorly, the middle meningeal artery. It com- municates, by small filaments, with— the .third division of the fifth pair, at its exit from the loramen ovale; the pterygoid nerve; the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, by a minute petrous twig. ° ' ' It appears to give off— a filament to the tensor tympani muscle; „ to the tensor palati; ' „ to the temporo-auricular nerve. The superior cervical ganglion extends from the foramen magnum to the second or tiiird cervical vertebra, gener.ally192 ANATOMY. more than an inch in length; it is oblong in its figure, and of considerable size. The branches from it are the fol- lowing : Ascending, to communicate with the carotic plexus in the carotic canal. External, to the cervical nerves. Internal, to the pharynx, entering into the pharyngeal plexus. Anterior, to unite with the par vagum, glosso-pharj'ngeal, hngual and facial nerves, and filaments named nervi molles, which accompany some of the branches of the ex- ternal carotid ; namely, the superior thyroid, hngual, labial, and ascending pharyngeal. Descending, to the second ganghon; and filaments to form the superficialis cordis. The middle cervical ganglion is very small, and some- times wanting on the left side. Its situation is upon the fifth cervical vertebra. It gives filaments to the superior and inferior ganglia, to the cervical nerves, the thyroid gland, superior thyroid artery and parts adjacent, and sends off the middle cardiac nerve. The inferior cervical ganglion lies upon the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and neck of the first rib, behind the vertebral artery. It gives off filaments to the middle cervical and superior thoracic ganglia, branches to unite with the axillary plexus, filaments to accompany the vertebral artery, which form the vertebral plexus, and which run up as far as the base of the skull, communicat- ing in their course with all the cervical nerves : it gives also filaments to the pulmonary plexus, and sends otf the inferior cardiac nerve. The cardiac plexus, destined for the supply of the heart, is formed by the cardiac nerves of the cervical ganglia, and branches from the nervus vagus and recurrent nerves. It is placed around the aorta, the greater portion {deep cardiac plexus) being somewhat above it, and between it and the trachea; the other portion just below the arch, and rather on its anterior aspect, resting somewhat upon the pulmonary artery. This portion has been named superficial cardiac plexus. The branches from this plexus are the following: Some going to the pulmonary plexus; Some to the anterior part of the aorta; Many follow the course of the coronary arteries, and areSYMPATHETIC NERVE. 193 called coronary plexuses; namely, right, or anterior, and left, or posterior. They follow the arteries, and send filaments into the substance of the heart. The thoracic ganglia, tvrelve, sometimes only eleven in number, lie upon the heads of the ribs, and are connected together by one or two small filaments; they then give off branches to unite with the intercostal nerves. The sujaerior five ganglia give off anterior filaments to the trachea, oesophagus, and aorta, and contribute to form the pulmo- nary cardiac, and thoracic plexuses. The anterior branches, from the sixth to the ninth, inclusive, unite to form the splanchnicus major; and similar branches from the tenth and eleventh ganglia form the splanchnicus minor. These nerves descend by the side of the vertebrae, pierce the crura of the diaphragm separately, and enter the abdomen. The splanchnicus major passes to the semilunar ganglion of each side, and the splanchnicus minor to the renal plexus. The semilunar ganglion of each side is situated close to the coeliac axis, around which the fibres interlace, and with filaments from the nervus vagus, plirenic, and splanchnicus minor, constitute the great solar plexus. Froni this, branches pass off to accompany the contiguous arteries, and are named so many plexuses. They are : Phrenic, to the crura, and broad part of the diaphrap-m runnin? with the arteries. * The coronary, or stomachic, accompanies the coronary artery to the stomach, and is distributed upon both its surfaces. The hepatic plexus, accompanying the vessels into the transverse fissures of the liver; some of its filaments pass to the pylorus, others along with the gastro-duodenal artery. This plexus unites with fila- ments from the nervus vagus. The splenic plexus, accompanying the splenic artery, and sending fi aments with the vasa brevia to the great end of the stomach, also filaments to the pancreas, navatd pancreatic plexus. The aortic plexus, a continuation, as it were, of the solar plexus upon the aorta, with branches from the luml)ar ganglia may be said to send oft- the .5«;.en-or and inferior mesenteric plexuses, to accompany the corresponding arteries. v-ui■■pau^ Tiie splanchnicus minor, with other filaments from the sympathetic, form the renal plexus, which send? numerous filaments into the kidney, with the arterial l)ranches: and gives off- infcnorly some filaments to accompany the spermatic artery, and which constitute the spermuiic plexus. ^ 9ANATOMY, 194 Some anatomists now describe three splanchnic nerves, under the names great, small, and smallest. According to them, the splanchnicus minor or small, above de- scribed, is given to the great solar plexus; and the smallest splanchnic derived, according to them, from the last thoracic ganglion, and a twig from the eleventh, descends to the renal artery, under the name nervus renalisposterior. In the abdomen we find the lumbar ganglia, four or five in number, by the sides of the lumbar vertebrse, and to the inner edge of the psoas muscle. They are connected together by filaments, and are connected with the lumbar nerves and plexus, and send filaments anteriorly to the aorta, which enter into the composition of the abdominal, aortic, and lumbar plexuses. The sacral ganglia are four or five on each side, with an azygos terminating one ; they unite together by filaments, and communicate with the contiguous spinal nerves. Anterior filaments from them, and also from the lowest lumbar ganglion, form the hypogastric plexus, which supplies nerves to the adjacent viscera; viz., the bladder, vesiculse seminales, uterus, vagina, and rectum. ANATOMY or THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. THE EYE. The eye is placed within a bony cavity, named the orbit. Each orUt is formed by seven bones; and as three ot them are common to both orbits, there are eleven bones only entering into the two. The orbit is pyramidal in form, with the base anteriorly, and directed a little outwards; the apex backwards and inwards. Probes passed through the axis of each orbit, into the cranium, will pass througli the foramen lacerum orbitale superius, and meet upon the sella turcica. The roof of the orbit is formed by the frontal hone and ala minor of the sphenoid bone; the floor bv the malar, superior maxillary, and palate bone; the outer wall by the malar and sphenoid; and the inner wall by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, the lacrymal bone, the ethmoid, and frontal bones. The orbit contains the globe of the eye, with numerousTHE EYE. ] 95 muscles, nerves, vessels, fat, and part of the lacrymal apparatus. In dissecting the orbit, and removing its roof, the nerves will be found passing through the sphenoidal fissure in the following order: Fourth pair. Frontal of the fifth. Superior division of the third. External to these, and nearly on the same plane, the lacrv- mal of the fifth. ' Inferior division of the third. The sixth pair, lowest. The optic nerve enters by the foramen opticum, with the ophthalmic artery. The trunk of the ophthalmic artery, at first below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, soon after crosses over to get to Its mner side. The ophthalmic vein is situated below all the nerves. Before proceeding to the description of the eye, we shall mention the external appendages, which are the eye-brows eyehds, and lacrymal apparatus. The eyebrows consist of the integuments covering the supraorbital ridge of the frontal boni on each side. Thev contain adipose tissue and fibres of the occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii muscles, and are studded with hairs, extending in an arched direction from near the root the eye ^'^"'''^ «f The eyebrows are useful in protecting the eyes from weat and foreign bodies falling down from the fbr head ThT^;;: ^-i^es being highly ornamental.' ihe eyelids are two thin curtains covering the eve and are superior and inferior. They consist of common in'tep-u ment externally, of mucous membrane internarcon tS be ween them some very loose cellular tissue, wiiich ciusef the hds to swell very rapidly from any eflusion of blnnT serum; the orbicularis nalpebrm.m fh . , and, iu the upper lid, A ouCl^l^^^^^^^ rioris. Their points of union a ^ca led I ^t ,'"^'1' mternal canthus. Within the lidr.^l j'"^ ^"'^ numerous glandular bodies ca 'd^rV'f^' T or folHcles mrl nf- meibomian glands roinclcs, and at their margins a row of stiff hairs.196 ANATOMY. called cilia or eyelaslies. Near tlie internal commissure there are angular projections, each presenting a little orifice, named punctum lachrymale. These are surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous ring, which serves to keep them patulous, and to allow the tears to pass from the surface of the eye into the lacrymal sac. The tarsal fihro-cartilages differ in the two hds. The upper one is, on its superior margin, semilunar in form, with its convex thin edge uppermost; it is kept in its place by palpebral ligaments, connecting it internally with the tendo-oculi, superiorly and externally with the periosteum of the orbit. The lower fibro-cartilage is smaller, and of nearly equal thickness in its whole length, and is attached at its extremities in a similar manner to the upper one. The meibomian glands, or sebaceous folhcles, are more numerous in the upper than under eyelid; in the upper one there are about forty; in the lower one, half the num- ber. They are arranged in vertical rows, and open by a smaller number of tubes at the edges of the lids. The sebaceous matter secreted by them prevents the eyehds from sticking together, and in some measure prevents the tears from escaping over the edges of the lids. Near the internal canthus, internal to the Uds, are seen two small bodies, the plica semilunaris and the caruncula lacrymalis. The plica, or valvula semilunaris, is a fold of mucous membrane of a triangular form; its base is concave towards the centre of the eye, its apex pointing to the inner canthus; it appears like a third eyelid, or rudiment of the membrana nictitans in the owl, eagle, &c. The caruncula lachrymalis is a small fleshy body of a red colour, composed chiefly of mucous follicles, sometinaes studded with small hairs on its surface. The lacrymal apparatus consists of the lacrymal gland and tubes, the puncta and lacrymal canals, the lacrymal sac, and nasal duct. The lacrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer part of the orbit, resting against the lacrymal fossa of the frontal bone: it is from half an inch to an inch long, and about half an inch broad, composed of two lobes, consisting of a number of lobules Hke a conglomerate gland ; from it, seven or eight little tubes proceed, wbich open on theTHE EYE. 197 under surface of the upper eyelid, near the external can- thus. The tears then pass along the surface of the eye towards the puncta lachrymalia, which they enter, and from which two canals are extended to the lacrymal sac. The canals leading into the sac differ in their direction ; the upper one forms an angle in its middle course, looking upwards; the lower one is nearly straight, and if curved, it is so downwards ; they are thus concave towards each other, and open close together, sometimes by a single aperture into the sac. The lacrymal sac is an elongated reservoir, situated be- hind the palpebral ligament, in a fossa formed by the os unguis and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, opening inferiorly into the nasal duct. It is lined by mucous membrane, and by a thin fibrous layer forming a periosteum. The nasal duct, a continuation of the lacrymal sac of the nose to the inferior meatus, is about half an inch in length. Its direction is downwards, backwards, and outwards. Its bony parietes are the os unguis, the superior maxillary bone, and the inferior spongy bone. It opens into the inferior meatus of the nose, having a fold of mucous mem- brane in front of it. The globe or ball of the eye is composed of membranes or coats, humours, vessels, and nerves. The membranes of the eye are the tunica conjunctiva, sclerotica, choroidea, cornea, iris, retina, the hyaloid, cap- sule of the lens, and membrane of the aqueous humour. The tunica conjunctiva is a delicate mucous membrane reflected over the anterior third of the globe of the eye, and lining the internal parts of the eyelids ; it is a continuation of the skin, and also of the mucous membrane of the nasal fossae; it is most vascular where it lines the lids, less so upon the sclerotica, and least upon the cornea, upon which Its epithelial layer only extends. The sclerotic coat, so named from its hardness, is fibrous in structure, and continuous with the dura mater, through the medmm of the optic nerve, covering about four fifths of the globe of the eye ; it is thickest posteriorly, thinner at the sides, but thick again where it unites with the cornea; externa ly ,t is in apposition with the muscles, vessels, lacrymal gland and nerves; internally, with the198 ANATOMY. choroid coat. It is perforated laterally and posteriorly by the ciliary nerves and vessels; and posteriorly, internally and inferiorly to the axis of the eye, by the optic nerve. The tendinous expansion of the recti muscles upon the anterior part of the sclerotica has obtained the name of tunica alhuginea. The cornea is the transparent covering in front of the eye, about six lines in diameter, but which is shghtly greater in the transverse direction; by its outer margin, which is bevelled off only in front, it is attached to the sclerotica, which slightly overlaps it, on account of which anatomists say that the cornea fits into the sclerotica, like a glass into a watch-case; externally, it is covered by the conjunctiva; internally, it is in contact with the membrane of the aqueous humour. It is convex anteriorly, concave posteriorly, and composed of several lamellae connected by cellular substance, with a thin serous fluid between them ; its posterior layer is named cornea elastica. The choroid membrane, situated between the sclerotica and retina, is essentially vascular. It extends from the optic nerve to the ciliary ligament; near its anterior margin, it is thrown into folds or processes, which he upon the edge of the lens and anterior portion of the vitreous humour; these are called ciliary strice, or pro- cesses. On its outer surface are seen the cihary nerves and long arteries; next come the veins of the choroid, vasa vorticosa; internally to them the short ciUary arteries, which, by subdividing, form a beautiful network, named tunica Buyschiana; next to this is the tunica pigmenti, which secretes on its inner surface the pigmentum nigrum, in some animals termed the tapetum. The ciliary stria, or processes, are very numerous, from seventy to eighty in number, alternately long and short, and conjointly named corpus cihare. They are somewhat triangular in shape, and having pigmentum nigrum depo- sited upon them, when removed from the vitreous humour, they leave a radiated appearance. The retina, as it is termed, consists of three membranes, the outer of which, in apposition with the choroid, is the tunica Jacobi; the middle one, the real expansion of the optic nerve, the tunica nervosa; the inner one is the tunica vasculosa retina:. The extent of tlie retina anteriorly is notTHE EYE, 199 quite clear: some say, and amongst them Cruveilhier, that it only proceeds as far as the posterior edges of the ciliary striae; others, that it passes as far as the crystalline lens. The tunica Jacobi is an extremely delicate memhrane, ■which has been ascertained by the microscope to be formed in a most singular manner. It exhibits immensely nu- merous columns placed vertically to the basement mem- brane, and resembling, externally, a mosaic pavement. The tunica nervosa, the expansion of the optic nerve, is pulpy, and terminates at the edge of the ciliary processes. The tunica vasculosa contains several minute branches from the arteria centralis retinse, a small branch of which passes forwards through the vitreous humour to reach the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. In the centre of the back part of the retina, in the axis of the globe of the eye, a yellow spot is observed, called the limbus luteus, with a fancied orifice, called foramen centrale of Sommering. This is produced by a deposit of yellow substance ; and the membrane being puckered up into a fold, causes the appearance of a dark spot or orifice in the centre. This spot is found in very few animals. The h'is is a circular membrane, attached by its outer border to the ciliary ligament, with a central orifice, called the pupU. Its anterior surface is coloured variously in different individuals; its inner surface is lined with a sub- stance resembling pigmentum nigrum, named the iivea. It separates the cornea from the lens. In structure it ap- pears to be fibrous, and, according to some, muscular. On the anterior surface two circles may be observed, the ex- ternal one, named annulus major, is paler, and consists of fibres radiating from the circumference towards the centre ; the inner fibres run circularly and form the annulus minor. The cu-cular fibres of the iris have been supposed to be muscular, wliilst the radiating are considered to be simply elastic. On the posterior surface of the iris, the fibres pass straight from the circumference towards the pupillarv margin. ^ ^ ^ The pupil of the foetus, up to nearly the seventh month, 18 filled up by a membrane called the membrana pupillaris ; this IS supposed to be formed by a meeting of the mem- branes lining the two chambers of the eye, but seems more like a continuation of ins, which is afterwards absorbed, in200 ANATOMY. consequence of the pressure produced by the evolution and growth of the lens. The space between the anterior surface of the iris and the cornea is called the anterior chamber of the eye. It is lined with a membrane which secretes the aqueous humour. A similar space exists between the posterior surface of the iris and lens, termed posterior chamber. The anterior chamber is about a fifth larger than the posterior. The iris is supplied with blood by the long, and anterior ciliary arteries: by meeting and anastomosing at the ex- ternal part of the iris, they form.the larger arterial circle; and again, by anastomosing near the pupillaiy margin, they constitute the circulus arteriosus minor: its nerves are derived from the lenticular ganglion and nasal branch of the fifth; its veins empty themselves into the vasa vorticosa. The external edge of the iris, by uniting with the choroid and sclerotic coats, forms a greyish circle, named the ciliary circle or ligament. The ciHary ligament is described by some as formed by the union of the cornea, choroid, and sclerotic coats. From its grey pulpy appearance and nerves terminating in it, some have supposed it to be a nervous ganglion. Between the ciliary ligament and sclerotic coat, a narrow circular canal may be found, most easily in the eye of the bullock, called the canal of Fontana. HUMOURS OF THE EYE. The aqueous humour contained within the anterior and posterior chambers, is secreted by its proper membrane. In quantity it is about three drops; its use is to properly distend the cornea, to allow free motion of the ins, and to act on the direction of the r-ays of light as they pass through it. The capsule of the aqueous humour possesses the power of regenerating the fluid when lost either by accident or operation. i i • j The crystalline lens is a transparent body, situate behind the iris, and in front of, but partially imbedded in, the vitreous humour. It is composed of concentric lamellas, softest on the outside, and contained in a capsule, between which and the lens, according to some, but denied by others, is a little fluid, named the liquor Morgagni.THE EYE. 201 When the human lens is hardened by boiling, and pressed upon with force, it splits into three triangular portions, the bases of which are formed by the edge of the lens, and each of these is found to be composed of numerous concentric lamelte. In shape it is doubly convex : the anterior portion repre- sents a small segment of a large sphere ; the posterior one a larger segment of a smaller sphere, consequently it is most convex posteriorly. It is also covered by the hyaloid membrane, which at its edge separates into two layers, of which one passes in front, the other behind the lens. By this separation a space is left at the edge of the lens, .known as the canal of Petit; when inflated by a blowpipe it has a vesicular appearance. The vitreous humour, or corpus vitreum, which fills up the two posterior thirds of the eye, is perfectly transparent. It is contained in a number of cells, formed by processes of the hyaloid membrane, which also gives it a general covering. It is penetrated by branches of the arteria centralis retinae, and is excavated anteriorly for the lodg- ment of the crystalUne lens. The muscles contained in the orbit are the four recti and the two oblique muscles pertaining to the eyeball, and the levator palpebrse and tensor tarsi, which more strictly belong to its appendages. The levator palpebrce superioris arises from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, about one eio-hth of an inch anterior to the optic foramen, it passes forw'ards and upwards to be inserted into the margin of the tarsal cartilage : it is the highest muscle of the orbit. Its name signifies its action. Immediately beneath and behind this muscle arises the superior rectus, which passes over the tendon of the supe nor oblique muscle to be inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball at about two lines behind the edge of the cornea superiorly. A little below and somewhat internal to the last muscle arises the mperior ohli<iue. It passes, first forwards and inwards to curve around a little pulley of bone or cartiln..e attached to the orbital plate of tl/e fron'tal bone, Lm S point ! turns somewhat backwards and outwards to bo inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eve, after havin- * O 9§202 ANATOMY. passed under the tendon of the rectus superior. The obliquus superior is generally, as well as the nerve that supplies it, called trochlearis. The internal, inferior, and one head of the external rectus, have a common tendinous origin, situated on the little lamina of bone which separates the foramen opticum from the sphenoidal fissure, the other head of the external rectus arising immediately above the optic foramen. They are attached in a similar way to the superior rectus, to the external, internal, and inferior portions of the sclerotic coat. Between the two heads of the external rectus pass the third and the sixth cranial nerves, and the nasal branch of. the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and in some instances the ophthalmic vein. The inferior oblique arises from a minute depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just withm the margin of the orbit. It passes outwards and backwards between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, to be in- serted into the sclerotic at its external and posterior surface. The action of the four recti is, when acting separately, to either raise, depress, or turn in or out the eye, and of course the action of two adjacent ones together will pro- duce a compound movement. The whole four acting together tend to retract, and as some think, to compress the eyeball, whilst the eyeball is supposed to be brought forward by the two obliqui. • • i Some anatomists, however, consider that the principal use of the obliqui is to turn the eyebaU on its axis, so that any small particles of extraneous matter may by this action be swept away. ■ ■ c The tensor tarsi is a small thin muscle, arising from the orbital surface of the lacrymal bone, and passing forwards and inwards over the lacrymal sac, to be inserted by two delicate tendons into the walls of the tubes leadmg from the puncta lacrymalia ; it assists the passage of tears from the eye. It has been called Horner's muscle, from the name of its discoverer. , i i • The orbit is supplied with blood from the ophtha mic artery: the veins unite to form the ophthalmic vein, whicli passes into the cavernous sinus. . The nerves entering the orbit are the 2d pair, pair,THE EAK. 203 4tli, first division of the 5th and 6th ; besides which jn the orbit is the lenticular ganghon, with its branches. THE EAR. The ear, as commonly understood, consists of external and internal parts. The parts of the external ear are the auricula and ex- ternal auditory passage, or meatus ; the parts of the internal ear are the tympanum and labyrinth. The auricula, or outer ear, is composed of common integument, fibro-cartilages, muscular fibres, vessels, and nerves. The upper expanded portion is named the pinna, the lower small part the lobe or lobule, which is devoid of fibro-cartilage and muscle. The prominent ridge forming the outer part of the pinna is named the helix; the bifid projection within it is named antihelix; the nipple-shaped prominence just in front of the meatus externus is the tragus; a small one behind and opposite to it the antitragus. The depression, or groove, between the helix and antihelix is the fossa innominata, that between the ridges of the antihelix is the fossa navicularis, and the deep fossa below it is the concha. The posterior surface of the concha is called the dorsum of the ear. The outer ear is kept in its situation by fibrous bands, which attach it to the zygoma, the mastoid process, and temporal aponeurosis. It is moved by three muscles, the anterior auris, retrahens, and attollens aurein. There are also delicate muscles proper to the pinna of the ear, for the motion of separate parts, but so small as to be dis- covered with some difficulty; they are rudiments of like parts found in animals, and are the following: Helicis major; helicis minor; tragicus ; antitranieus; transversus auriculm. And two others described by Mr. Todd, viz: Obliquus auris ; contractor meatus. The meatus auditorius externus, or external auditory passage extends from the concha to the membrana tym- pani It IS partly formed of cartilage and integument, partly of the latter and bone. The lining integument is also reflected upon the membrana tympani. Its direction204 ANATOMY. is inwards and slightly forwards, arching a little superiorly, thus presenting a slight concave direction inferiorly. Its length is about an inch, but is somewhat longer inferiorly in consequence of the obhque position of the membrana tympani. Its broadest partis external, the narrowest in the middle. The integument lining this meatus is studded with a number of ceruminous glands, which secrete the pecuhar thick fluid called wax of the ear, and at the outer part with a number of hairs. This passage is separated from the internal ear by the membrana tympani. i j , The membrana tympani is nearly circular, attached by its circumference to a bony ring. It consists of three layers the outer one a continuation of the common in- tegument, the inner one continuous with the mucous membrane of the tympanum; the middle one is fibrous, and is the proper membrane. Its fibres converge from the circumference to the centre. It is concave externally, convex internally. Its direction is obhque, as it looks downwards, outwards, and forwards ; to the centre ot it internally, the long handle of the malleus is attached. The tympanum, or drum of the ear, is a narrow cavity lined with mucous membrane, continuous with that from the Eustachian tube, bounded externally by the membrana tympani, posteriorly by the mastoid process and cells and internally by the labryinth. On its inner wall, about the Centre, a prominence is seen, called th^ promontory; above this is a foramen, closed by membrane m the receu state, named fenestra ovalis, which communicates tl^^ vestibule. Below the promontory, and more concealed by it, is a round aperture, likewise closed m the recent state by membrane, fenestra rotunda; it is iii/'elf ith the scala tympani. Along the posterior wall, behind the promontory, we find a little bony projection, named the pyramid; it presents a little orifice at its apex which transmits the tendon of the stapedius muscle, the body ot which is lodged in the bone ; beneath this, and behmd it, is a little foramen, which transmits the chorda tympani; superiorly and posteriorly is the opening from the mastoid ^^^Al'onc the anterior part of the tympanum we meet with the glenoid fissure, which gives lodgment to the processusTHE EAR. 205 gracilis of the malleus, and passage to the chorda tympani uerve and tendon of the laxator tympani muscle, a minute artery and vein. Anteriorly and internally we observe the orifices for the Eustachian tube, and tensor tympani muscle. Within the tympanum is a chain of sma^ll bones, named ossicula auditus. They are the malleus, incus, orbiculare, and stapes. The malleus, (a hammer,) in relation with the membrana tympani, consists of a head, neck, and processes. The head articulates with the incus; the neck is between this and the processes; the tnanubrhm (handle) is a lono- process, connected by its extremity with the membrana tympani. The processus brevis is external, passes from the neck at a right angle, and rests against the membrana tympani. The processus gracilis proceeds from the neck, forwards and downwards, and is inserted by its point into the glenoid fissure. The incus (an anvil) may be divided into a body and processes. The body is anterior, and is articulated at its upper part with tlie head of the malleus. Its short crus, or process, is directed backwards, and retires into the mastoid cells; its long process, or crus, passes forwards, downwards, and inwards, terminating in a rounded point, which has been named, as a separate bone, the os or- biculare, by which it is articulated with the stapes. The stapes (a stirrup) is said to consist of a base processes, a neck, and head. The head is articulated with themcus; the wec/L-has the stapedius muscle attached to It; Va^processes pass from the neck to the base, and have a delicate membrane filling up the space between them • the base of an oval form fills up or occupies the openine' named fenestra-ovalis. °' These bones admit of some motion, which are influenced by some minute muscles, the smallest in the body Thev are four in number, ^' The Tensor tympani arises from— '\2Z boSr "'■"'''^^ "'^ tube and and is inserted into— the processus brevis of the malleus.206 ANATOMY. The Laxator tympani arises from— the spinous process of sphenoid bone; and is inserted into— the processus gracilis of the malleus. The Laxator tympani minor has its origin from— the bony circumference of the membrana tympani; and is inserted into— the manubrium of the malleus, near the short process. The Stapedius arises from— the tube of the pyramid; and is inserted into— the neck of the stapes. The Eustachian tube is partly formed of bone and parUy of cartilage, the cartUaginous porUon thirds of it. It is narrowest about the niiddie tnira, broadest afits anterior part. Its f e"m f e - is forwards inwards, and a httle downwards. It opens oUos^rthe posterior part of the inferior spongy bone. S bony porSn is separated from the tensor tympanx muscle by a thin bony partition, called processus colch- Zr^lrZ. The cartVge does not com^^^^^^^^^^^ the tube; it is deficient at the mfenor exteinal part, wmcn is filled ut) bv a fibrous substance. , ^^eZ^/rinth consists of the vestibule, cochlea and S o Sis, w Eelicate membrane, between Zcb the nerve is the K5»or Cotunm, or »,«. My rinthi. Its boundaries are: Anteriorly, the cochlea. Posteriorly, the semicircular canals. Internally, th'^ lamina cribrosa, for the portio mol is ErteLli}, the osseous plate forming tbe pronio.^ory. Superiorly' the bone, containing the aqueduct of Fallopius. The openings into it in the dry bone are: the fenestra207 THE EAR. ovalis, externally; five openings from the semicircular canals, posteriorly; one from the scala vestibuli, anteriorly; the foramina for the auditory nerve, internally ; and from the posterior and external part a foramen which transmits a small vein, and is named aqiicBductus vestibuli. The cochlea is situated in front of the vestibule, in the hardest portion of the petrous bone. It is named from its resemblance to the spiral tubes of a shell. It may be described as a spiral bony tube, which makes two turns and a half round an axis or pillar, named modiolus. This tube is separated by a delicate lamella {lamina spiralis) in the recent state, into two distinct tubes, which are named the scala tijmpani (the staircase of the tympanum), and scali vestibuli, in consequence of one opening into the vestibule, the other leading towards the tympanum at the fenestra rotunda, with the intervention of a delicate mem- brane. The lamella is formed of bone towards the modiolus, and does not quite extend to the top of the tube; the rest IS membranous, and extends as far as the cupola, which is the extreme point where the two scalse communicate. The base of the modiolus is opposite to the entrance of the portio mollis from the internal auditory meatus, and is here perforated for the little nervous filaments and vessels: the passage in the modiolus expanding at the top, is caDed the infundibulum. Near to the point where the scala tympani communicates with the fenestra rotunda, a small foramen exists, which transmits a vein, and is named aquceductus cochlecB. It opens into the lateral sinus near the jugular fossa. The semicircular canals are three in number, and, from their direction, are named superior or vertical, external or horizontal, and posterior or oblique; they are situated in the petrous bone, not so deeply imbedded as the cochlea and each of them forms rather more than half a circle • they are hned with a delicate membrane, and contain the pulpy expansion of the portio molhs, with a little fluid mtervenmg between the nerve and the canals. Thev oiDen by each extremity into the vestibule; hut, as the vertical and posterior canals unite together by their contiguous extremities before communicating with the vestibule, there are ouly five, instead of six, openings into the vestibule. Ihe meatus auditonus internus is a bony canal in the208 ANATOMY. posterior surface of the pars petrosa, giving passage to the portio mollis, portio dura, and an artery ^vhich runs some- what between the two nerves. At the bottom of this canal a little bony ridge is seen, separating it into two parts, the superior smaUer^and the inferior cribriform plate. Ihrough the upper opening the portio dura passes; througli the lower, the portio mollis and the artery. , , . The superior passage, or tube, is the aqueduct of Fallopius; it passes upwards and outwards then down- wards and outwards, and then backwards and downwards ; at first above the cochlea, then runs over he roof of the tympanum and terminates at the foramen stylo-mastoideum It conveys the vidian nerve and portio dura, which in its course gives filaments to pierce the bone, and supply the tensor tvmpani and stapedius muscles . r • i The auditory nerve at the bottom of the meatus divides into numerous filaments ; some pass into the foramma o the modiolus, and in their passage perforate its walls, and ar iv^ at the lamina spiralis, and walls of the scala, upon which they are spread out in the most delicate manner, rsecoi d sit in the vestibule expand almost to fill up this caZ and receive an i-f--^V/'-r StiS which has been named sacculus vestibuli. The thud sei es mount up over the former, and enter the semicircular On entering them, the nerves appear to expand nto a pufpy mass, which almost fills up the tubes ; thev are suppor? d by the liquor cotunnii. The arteries, which a e very deliJate, are, first, the branch from the basdar or Tsterior cerebral, which enters by the lamma cribro.a ramifies in ihe labyrinth; --nd a .^^^^^^^^ branch from the posterior auricular, enters the tympanum l7/ri^th sometimes forming an -^^^^ ^^t^^ xnembrani tympani by uniting ^vith the artery vvhich entei by the fissi/ra glasseri; third, the tympamc ^ranc give off from the internal maxillary artery ; it ^^"^ers th ough the fissura glasseri, ramifies in the tynn.anum, and -m o moses freely ^vith the stylo-mastoid ^^anch ^^e^em corresponding with the last-named «vtenes take a sun ar couise'^; but Uiose of the labyrinth terminate in the (ui - properly named) aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, which convey the blood to the lateral sinuses.THE NOSE. 209 THE NOSE. The bones which enter into the formation of the nose are fourteen in number, consisting of all the bones of the face, excepting the two malar and inferior maxillary, and three bones which are described as common to the head and face, viz., the frontal, ethmoid, and sphenoid. By a central partition, the nose is divided into two distinct fossae. This septum of the nose is formed by the vomer, nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone, and an extensive cartilage. The roof of the nose has a flattened surface in the centre, shelving down anteriorly and posteriorly. It is bounded anteriorly by the nasal bones, superiorly by the frontal bone and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and posteriorly by the body of the sphenoid. The floor is formed by the superior maxillary and palate bones, and the outer wall by the ethmoid, internal pterygoid plates, OS unguis, inferior spongy bone, palate bone, and superior maxillary. The inner wall is the septum. Each nostril is divided into chambers by the spongy bones. These chambers are named superior, middle, and inferior meatus. The openings into these, in addition to the anterior and posterior common openings, or nares, are the following : in the inferior meatus is the opening from the nasal duct, concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. In passing a probe into it, the instrument must be curved and carried just beyond the fold, and tlien, by turning it outwards, it may be made to enter the duct. The openings into the tniddle meatus are : one from the maxillary sinus, one from the frontal sinus, and anterior ethmoidal cells. In the superior meatus we find the opening from the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinuses; and in the dry bones, the spheno-palatine foramen At the anterior part of the floor, on each side, in the dry bone, is the superior orifice of the anterior palatine The Eustachian tube might almost be said to enter the nares. Its anterior aperture corresponds with the posterior part of the inferior spongy bone; when a probe has to be introduced into it, it should be carried immediately under'JIO ANATOMY. the inferior spongy bone, and when it has arrived at the extremity of that bone, it should be guided a little upwards, outwards, and backwards. The posterior nares, or apertures, are oblong m the perpendicular direction, compressed laterally; bounded above by the sphenoid bone; externally, by the internal pterygoid plates; internally, by the vomer; and inferiorly by the palate bone. . . The mucous membrane of the nose is named pituitary, or schneiderian; it is continuous with the common inte- gument anteriorly, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx posteriorly ; it is red, soft, and villous, especially about the spongy bones; anteriorly smoother and studded with hairs, and exceedingly adherent to the penosteura; but, in the cells and maxillary sinus, it is thiii, very pale, and slightly adherent to the bones. w f The softer anterior part, consisting of the alse and tip ot the nose, is formed of common integument and cartilages : these are five in number, one central, and two lateral on each side: the central one, elongated from above down- wards, is somewhat triangular in shape, broadest superiorly, where it is attached to the perpendicular plate ot tlie ethmoid bone. Of the lateral cartilages, the superior one is triangular, and attached to the nasal and superior maxiUary bones, and anteriorly rests agamst the perpen- dicular cartilage : the inferior lateral cartilages, most parti- cularly, give form to the alee nasi. They are arched and convex externaUy; connected above with the superior lateral cartilage, externally to the superior maxdlary bone, and anterioriy are loosely connected with the perpendiciUar cartilage. In addition to these five, there are some smaUer cartilages, which are uncertain as to number, and not definite in their form. i u- i The arteries of the nose are derived from the labial, internal maxillary and ethmoidal. The nerves are branches of the olfactory, or first pair, the nasal division ot the btth, and branches from Meckel's gangUon. The nose is not only of use as the organ of smelling, but serves as the chief passage of the air into the lungs ; and has a considerable influence upon the voice.211 THE TONGUE. THE TONGUE. The toDgue is not only the organ of taste but assists materially in deglutition, suction, and speech, and is a delicate organ of touch. It may be described as formed by muscles, arteries, veins, nerves, and its papillaj or most sensitive portions. In shape the tongue is oblong, coming to a point anteriorly. Its dorsum is convex, but marked in its centre by a groove or raphe, which divides it into two lateral symmetrical parts. Upon its inferior surface is the frsenum which separates the two sides, and connects the tongue with the floor of the mouth, and mesial line of the lower jaw. Upon the superior and posterior surface of the tongue IS seen a little round depression, called the foramen ccecum, which forms a small reservoir for the mucous secretion of the foUicles placed in its neighbourhood. The muscles of the tongue are generally described as five m number, viz., the hyoglossus, the genio-hyoglossus, iinguahs, styloglossus, and palatoglossus. The stylofflossus (most externally) arises from the styloid process of the temporal bone, and the stylo-hyoid lio-a- ment; it passes forwards and downwards to be inserted along the side of the tongue. The hyo-glossus arises from the whole of the great cornu and part of the body of the os hyoides, and passes upwards and outwards to be inserted into the whole side of the tongue, crossing the styloglossus muscle, internal to which it ues. The lingualis (the next deepest) has but a slight bonv attachment to the os hyoides ; it passes forwards alone the i"s sX't^nc/.*^'' '"^ ^^'""^'^ inseparably'with 'IhQ genio-hyo-glossus, most internal, arises from a little tubercle inside the symphysis of the lower jaw, from which point the fibres spread out like a fan, the low st to be in- serted into Uie OS hyoides, the highest to reach the tip of the tongue, the mtervenmg fibres being attached all ZZ Its lower surface from the one point to the oth r I foS the posterior part of the freenum lingua, the anterior being little more than membrane. u^iug Immediately beneath the genio-hyoglossus arises another212 ANATOMY. muscle, which, though not commonly reckoned among those of the tongue, has a considerable effect in drawing it forwards. From its arising from the lower jaw immediately behind the symphysis, and being inserted into the body ot the OS hyoides, it has been named the genio-hyoideus. The 2)alato-fflossus arises from the soft palate, and passes downwards, outwards, and forwards to be inserted into the side of the tongue. This muscle is common to the tongue and palate, and is by some called constrictor isthmi fauoiim. Besides these muscles the tongue is composed of a con- siderable mass of structure closely approacliing to muscular, though not described as such. Thin layers of this substance run along the tongue from before backwards, both above and at the sides, whilst other strata run directly from side to side, a third variety appearing to pass almost perpen- dicularly downwards. The mucous membrane of the tongue which covers its superior and lateral surfaces, is studded with a vast number of papillEe, which form the seat of the organ of taste. They are divided into several varieties: 1. PapiUcB lenticulares, also called circumvallatcE and calyciformes. These are about 15 in number, they are arranged in two rows which meet in a point posteriorly at the foramen csecum. They are but slightly elevated, and have a little depression in their centre, whence their name. 2. Papillce capitutce or fmigiformes.—These are in appearance like small mushrooms. They cover the whole surface of the tongue, but are found principally at the sides and point. , . 3. PapillcB pyramidales or conicce.—Thef.e are, as their name implies, larger at their base tlian their point. They are small and diffused over the whole surface of the tongue. 4. rapillcB filiformes.-These are very small and some- what long and thin. They are very few in number, and only found near the apex of the tongue. Unlike the other three varieties, these appear merely to contribute to ordmary sensation, wliilst the others assist both the ordinary and special sense. From the circumstance of the sensation of taste being more powerful at the posterior part of the tongue whilst ordinary sensation is considerably more acute at its point.213 THE SKIN. It has been supposed that the gustatoiy nevve (from the fifth) IS the neiTe only of ordinary sensation, and the glosso-pharyngea] the true nerve of taste. No doubt nil however, exists with regard to the lingual or ninth nerve it being the motor nerve of the tongue, and distributed onlv'to its muscles. •> The arteries which supply the tongue are derived from the hngual, a branch of the external carotid artery. Thev are the dorsahs hnguae, which supplies the dorsum- the sublingual, which suppUes the posterior portion- and the ^7\^S:::^^--'-lor su;f:ce':;;d Having spoken of the organs of the four special senses we shall now turn to the consideration of t]JlT\ that of touch. The chief seat of til L the skin THE SKiy. mouth, the air passages, the alinilitary cfnal S he urinary passages. These internal portions chanr .1 F-operties. becoming soft and iiioisri T fr L ^ir sT creting a peculiar fluid for their lubrication ar^l nn J mucous membranes. uuricanon, are known as The skin is generally described as composed of fh.a ficial. the papillanj layer ' '"P"*- the papillary layer It is vp, ! ! ^''^ support of geniLr, but'thfck'on th p7ms tb ?'''^' '^"^ scalps, &c. As a rule it is H^^^ ?^ ^"^ feet, the lody and thin on tbe'pl^te'ed"" P'^'''^ "'KILL, iney are arranged214 ANATOMY. promiscuonslv over the whole surface of the body, but are quuTsj mmeirical in the skia of the fingers, ^vhere they form regular, well-defined rows, . • xi The papillary layer is very vascular, and contains the expansions of the sensitive nerves. Immediately beneath and intimately connected with the cutis vera is found, in some animals, a peculiar muscular structure, called the panniculus carnosus. The rete mucosum is now considered to be simply tue innermost soft layer of the cuticle or epidermis. It is accurately moulded to the cutis, the inequalities of which Impartially diminishes, being thicker between the papiU^ and thinner on their summits. It is composed of minute nuclea cells, which are oval in shape, and become flat- tened into scales when forming tlie cuticle. Th>s layer S is almost fluid and very slightly developed m the wh te races, is very distinct and thick m the darker races of mankind 1; which also the cells are fil ed with a pigmen That gTve the characteristic colour to their skin In fact he rete B,ucosum has sometimes been described as a dis- tinct pigment layer in the negro, in whom it is easily Tif^itilirPrkin, epidermis,) is formed by the outer ha dened layers of the rete mucosum; i is qui unorganised and horny in structure, its use being to pro ct fromTnTury the more deUcate subjacent cutis. In appe^- anc^it s ak'ays wrinkled from its inelastic nature, though Xn:^^in^^ membranes The cuticle is thickest in tlie most exposea pnrtrthe body, consisting of several layers in the palms ^^^^ — same material, but disposed in a pecuhar way, to pro cct th ;ensitive extremities of the fingers. Their posterior Semities are inserted into u deep groove in the skm, cidled E mati^x, whilst their anterior or harder extremi y is free. Tnelth they are closely connected to the skin bj long- UiXal lam^-- The posterior whiter portion is, from itsTHE MOUTH, PHAKYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. 215 shape, called lunula. The nails come off with the cuticle when the hand is macerated long in water. The hairs are secreted from little pouches in the skin at the bottom of each of which is a papilla. They are hollow in shape, and split into two or three at their free end. The hairs of the head are round, but those of the other parts of the body are more or less flattened, and sometimes even pnsmoid in form. The sebaceous glands vary in shape, being large in the nose and in the armpits, and very small in most other parts and are formed by one or more small lobules opening into an excretory duct, which pierces the rete mucosum and cuticle to reach the surface of the skin ; some of the ducts however, only open into the hair follicles, and reach the skin by those means. The sebaceous glands are lod-ed in the cutis, but do not lie so deep as the sweat glands. Ihe sudoriparous (perspiratory or sweat) glands are situated m the lowest part of the corium. Tlie^ are smal and lobulated, and give off a duct which ascends to the sur, face m most parts of the body in a convoluted manner, but in tbe scalp perpendicularly. nffli'^^'"'"^' *5v^^'*' may be easily seen at the ends of the fingers^ resembling small lines crossing the ridges of he cuticle. These openings are called the pores of the skin aSd XreffiioC"^" ^^^-^-^ The passage of carbonic acid;from the skin may be readilv seen on putting the hand into lime-water, from which the carbonate will be speedily thrown down, so as to cover the whole hand with a white powder. Beneath the chorion is found the adipose tissue and beneath this is the true reticulated or cellular tissue wh^ch forms the superficial fascia of the body ' Having thus briefly considered the anatomv of tl,. senses, we will proceed with that of the viscera THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS216 ANATOMY. year tliey are replaced by tlie permanent teeth, wbicb, when complete, are thirty-two m number. . The teeth of a child, that is, the first set m each jaw, are four incisors, two cuspidati or canini, and four molares. In each jaw of the adult there are four tnmor*, two cuspidati or canmi, four bicuspidaii^ ^v, molares. Ihe posterior molares, which protrude often late in life, ha^^ been named denies sapienti^. The first, or an enor mo^ lares, are the earliest of the permanent teeth which show themselves above the gums. , , i i v^e The soft parts of the mouth are, the cheeks and l.ps, the gums, the soft palate and uvula, the tongue, the hmng membrane, and salivary glands. . The cheeks and lips are formed by common integumen and muscle, and are studded with glands, named buccal and labial, which secrete fluid very like saliva. The soft palate is the loose fleshy curtain which hangs down from the palate bones, forming a partition between ?he mouth and the pharynx, and consists of five muscles enclosed in a mucous membrane. There is a small fle.hy substance projecting from its centre, caUed the from whih tw?folds of membrane diverge forming the antenor iTposterior arehes of the palate. The ormer passes to the side of the tongue, the latter to the pharynx. In the ;?rant5ar space between them is a glandular body, named the amygdala or tonsil. wlnrb Ihe tonsils consist of an ^gS^'^g^^^^'^'^ °J f J^J^;'^1,^^^^^ secrete a thick mucus. They are bounded by the palato- J ssus, anteriorly; the palato-pharyngeus, posterior,; the stjio-glossus muscle, inferiorly; and the mucous "Th^^rs"L soft palate are, l^^ator^^a^ the ci^-curr^exus or tensor the ^^Vd^'^'^^^J^^ palato-gloLs or constrietor isthm faucuun contamed m the anterior arch, and the palato-pharyngeus imbedded m %Sr:S, wth hangs down from the centre of the anterior arches of the palate, consists of mucous mem bmne surrounding muscular fibres, named the azygos or 'iroSS from the mouth into the pl^aO-./;- named Ttlm^s fancium, is bounded superiorly by theTHE MOUTH, PHAEYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. 217 velum pendulum palati, laterally by the tonsils and arches of the palate, and inferiorly by the tongue. The salivanj glands are, the parotid, sublingual, and submaxillary, on each side. The parotid gland, so named from its situation near tbe ear, is bounded— Anteriorly, by the ramus of the jaw. Posteriorly, by the mastoid pr ocess and external auditory meatus. Internally, by the styloid process and its muscles. Externally, by fascia, fibres of the platysma, and integuments. Superiorly, by the zygoma. Inferiorly, by the stylo-maxillary ligament and digastric muscle. It surrounds within its substance the external carotid artery, with the roots of the temporal, internal maxillary and transverse facial branches, the temporal and internal ma-xillary vein, the portio dura, auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, auricular branch of the fiftb pair of nerves and some lymphatic glands. Internal to the styloid muscles and this gland we find the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The parotid is a conglomerate gland, and consists of a series of lobules, made distinct by the vessels and nerves, and partly by the fascia, which covers it externally, forming a species of capsule; one portion of it overlaps tbe masseter muscle, and has been named socia ■parotidis ; a portion of It posteriorly and superiorly occupies part of the glenoid cavity. From these several lobes, little ducts converge to torm the parotid or stenonian duct. This duct runs torward upon the masseter muscle, nearly an inch below the zygoma, passes through a quantity of fat, which rests on the buccinator muscle, then perforates this muscle and opens luto the mouth opposite about the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. It consists of two coats, the Unin- one mucous, coutmuous with the membrane of the mouth* and an outer one, fibrous. It is narrowest in its centre somewhat dilated at each extremity, and is a compaS by the ransverse facial artery and middle divis oTorthe nerves from the pes anserinus. "ivihion ot tlie The siibmaxillary gland occupies part of the snace —s!externallAy\S5-:i-iS2i:?S^^:218 ANATOMY. and common integuments ; below by the digastric muscle. The facial artery grooves it, along its posterior part, and sometimes appears to separate it into two lobes. Its structure is like that of the parotid. The excretory duct, named Wharton s, passes obliquely upwards and inwards, parallel with tlie gustatory and lingual nerves. After passing between the niylo-hyoideus and hyoglossus muscles, it runs between the sublingual gland and genio-hyoglossus, immediately under the mucous membrane, along the fraenum linguse, as far as a promi- nent papilla, just behind the inferior incisor teeth, where it opens by an exceedingly small orifice. The Whartonian duct has much thinner coats than the stenonian, its calibre is greater, and it is more dilatable, and when distended by fluid or calcareous matter, projects considerably into the cavity of the mouth. The suhlwgual gland of each side rests upon the sub- lingual fossa of the lower jaw, on each side of the sym- physis ; smaller than the other salivary glands. It is placed beneath the mucous membrane, lies upon the mylohyoid muscle, and rests against the lower jaw; in- ternal to it is the genio-hyoglossus, from^ which it is separated bv the gustatory nerve, Wharton s duct, and theranine vein; anteriorly, it reaches the border of its fellow gland, at its posterior edge it is embraced by the gustatory nerve, which supplies filaments to it. The excretory ducts {ducts of Rivimts) are seven or eight in number; they open along the ridge on the side ot the fr^num linguse. Some of them have been found to pass into the Whartonian duct. o^finr. All the salivary glands are so placed that, by the action of mastication, they should be exposed to pressure, which will force out the fluid at the time when it is most ^^%htpharynx is a musculo-membranous bag, somewhat of the shape of a funnel: it is broadest about its middle more constricted superiorly, but most so mfenorly, where it terminates in the oesophagus. . ^„ , i . It is bounded posterioriy by the ceiwical ^ertebr^, superioriy by the base of the skull; laterally, by the large Ss 0? L neck, and by muscles; Y^^^. posterior nares, soft palate, tongue, epiglottis, and larynx,THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. 21.9 iuferiorly, it teraiinates in the oesophagus, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra. Internally it consists of mucous membrane, on the outside of which are the muscles which chiefly form its parietes. They are the superior, middle, and inferior constrictors of each side; accessory to them are the stj/lo- pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. In addition to these parts, Cruveilhier describes a membranous or aponeurotic layer, which consists of two portions, named cephalo- pharyngeal and petro-pharyngeal. Posteriorly it serves as a pomt of attachment to the pharyngeal muscles The mucous membrane is furnished at 'its upper part, with cihated and columnar epithelium. The inferior constrictor most superficial, overlapping the middle constrictor, partially arises from two or three rings of the trachea, and from the sides of the cricoid and thy- roid cartilage, it passes backwards to be inserted into the posterior tendinous raphe of the pharynx. The middle constrictor arises from the cornua of the OS hyoides, and slightly from the stylo-hyoid ligament, rom which points its fibres spread out to be inserted, the ower and middle into the raphe, and the superior, by a tendmous prolongation, into the basUar process of the occipital bone Its superior border overlaps the superior cons nctor, whdst its inferior is overlapped by the inferior constrictor. j.i j Ihe superior constrictor of the pharynx arises, slightly from the side of the tongue, from the molar ridge of the inferior maxilla, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and fiom the internal pterygoid plate and hamular proce s • it passes backwards to be inserted into the central raph6 of the pharynx, and into the basilar process. Its lower portion IS overlapped by the middle constrictor Ihe stylo-phanjngeus arises from the styloid process The palato-pharyngeus arises from the soft palate «nrl passes downwards to be inserted into ^-a \ , pharynx, and sHghtly into the tiyro/fcUte"'^ There are seven openings into the phar;nz, viz., two220 ANATOMY. from tlie posterior nares, two into the Eustachian tubes, one into the mouth, one into the larynx, and the seventh into the oesophagus. Tlie oesophagus is a cylindrical tube, the narrowest por- tion of the alimentary canal, extending from the pharynx to the stomach, from about the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the tenth dorsal. It is at first placed behind the trachea; in the chest it is inclosed in the posterior mediastinum, at first rather to the right of the arch of the aorta: about the centre of the chest it inclines over the aorta, and lower down is in front, but a little to the left of it. It does not pass exactly in the mesian Une, for its upper part, in the chest, is a 'little inclined to the right, and its lower part to the left side. It has two series of muscular fibres, circular internally and longitudinal exter- nally, the latter of which are in some degree collected together, so as to form three fasciculi, one on each side, and one in front; it is lined internally by a mucous mem- brane, continuous from the mouth and pharynx, also by a squamous epithelium, and is studded with numerous glands, named oesophageal glands. It receives its blood from the inferior thyroid arteries in the neck, but in the thorax has arteries direct from the aorta It is accompanied in most of its course by the par vagum, which, with the sympathetic in the upper part of the chest, forms a plexus around it, caUed oesophageal. LARYNX, TKACHEA, AND BRONCHI. The Larynx is composed of cartilages, numerous liga- ments, muscles, and lining mucous membrane, with its arteries, veins, nerves, and absorbents. ^ ' . It is situated in the front and middle of the neck, ante- rior to the pharynx; connected with the os lijoides superiorly, with the trachea inferiorly, and bounded laterally by muscles and the large vessels of the neck. It is nearly a third larger in the male than in the female. The thyroid cartilage, which is the largest, is placed anteriorly. It is formed by two lateral portions of a quadrangular shape, united anteriorly at an acute angle, where they form a projection, termed j)omum Adanu, most prominent in the male. At its superior posterior angle, on each side, there is a projecting poriiou named itsLARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 221 superior cornu, which is attached by a lateral thyro-hyoid or round ligament to the os hyoides. There is frequently found in this ligament a small portion of bony matter. The inferior margin, convex in the centre, is connected by the crico-thyroid ligament to the cricoid cartilage. At the posterior inferior angle another projection is found, named the inferior cornu, which is connected with the cricoid cartilage by the lateral crico-thyroid ligament. The cricoid cartilage is of the form of a ring, with its broadest or signet portion posteriorly. It lies beneath the thyroid cartilage, and above the first ring of the trachea. It is connected with the former by the crico-thyroid liga- ments, and with the latter by a broad process of ligamentous substance. Its superior margin inclines downwards and forwards, its inferior one is horizontal. On its posterior superior margin are observed four smooth articulating surfaces, the direction of which is upwards and outwards. The inner surface on each side receives the base of the arytenoid cartilage ; the outer ones articulate with the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior surface of the cricoid is furrowed by the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. In old age this cartilage is frequently ossified. The arytenoid cartilages are two in number, of a pyra- midal figure, attached at their base by capsular ligaments to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage. They have a little cartilaginous appendage on the summit, named corniculum laryngis, which is attached by ligaments and a synovial capsule. Their posterior surface is a little hollowed out, for the insertion of the transverse and oblique arytenoid muscles. To their anterior surface, which is rather convex and to the apex are attached ligamentous fibres, which'pass to the msic e of the projecting part of the thyroid cartUage, and to the epiglottis. ° These cartilages are sometimes ossified T«'o other minute cartilages are described by some authors, as existing ,n the thyro-epiglottidean fold, near to the cornicida; they are named cuneiform, and are found with much difliculty. The epiglottis, in texture, is not strictly cartilaginous ;222 ANATOMY. it belongs rather to the fibro-cartilaginous tissue, known by the French as tissujaune. It adheres inferiorly to the interior part of the thyroid cartilage by a strong elastic ligamentous substance. It is somewhat OTal, or is likened to an obcordate leaf, rather convex above, concave below, covered by mucous membrane, and studded with numerous mucous foUicles. It is kept in its situation also by ligaments, extending from the base of the tongue, and Hkewise by two ligaments which proceed from its sides to the arytenoid cartilages. Between the epiglottis and the dorsum of the tongue is found a small mass of fatty substance, incorrectly called the epiglottic gland. The ligaments of the larynx are by some considered to be seventeen in number. They are, three broad, four capsular, two round, four thyro-arytenoid, and four con- nected with the epiglottis. The broad ligaments are— The thyro-hyoid, connecting the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage with the internal surface of the os hyoides. It is also named thyro-hyoid membrane. The crico-thyroid, through which the operation of laryngo- tomy is performed. The hgamentous substance between the cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachea. The capsular ligaments are four. They are on each side. Crico-arytenoid, Crico-thyroid. The two round ligaments extend from the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage to the extremity of the great cornu of the OS hyoides on each side. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments are superior and inferior on each side. The inferior only are really ligamentous; and form the true chordae vocales; they pass from the base of the arytenoid cartilages to the inside of the angle of the thyroid. Tlie superior, so-styled ligaments, are folds of mucous membrane, passing from near the apex of the arytenoid cartilages to the same point as the former. Between the two, on each side, is a fossa, named sacculus larync/is, or ventricle of Galen. The four ligaments of the epiglottis are—223 LARYNX, TKACHEA, AND BRONCHI. Thyro-epiglottidean, really ligamentous; Glosso-epiglottidean, a fold of mucous membrane, named frasnum epiglottidis; Two aryteno-epiglottidean, also consisting of mucous mem- brane. The muscles connected with the larynx, and concerned in its motions, are, anteriorly, the sterno-thyroid, thyro- hyoid, and crico-thyroid; posteriorly, the crico-arytenoidei jtostici, and the arytenoidea ; and laterally muscular fibres, which have been named crico-arytenoidei laterales, and thyro-arytenoidei. In addition to these muscles, three more have been described by the minute anatomists, viz., the thyro-epiglot- tideus, the aryteno-epiglottideus, superior and inferior, on each side, The sterno-thijroid and the thyro-hyoid muscles have their origin and insertion clearly indicated by their name. Their action is simply upon the larynx as a whole, the former depressing, the latter assisting to raise it. The crico-thyroideus is a very small fan-shaped muscle, of which the point arises from the centre of the cricoid cartilage, and the expansion is inserted into the lower and inner portion of the side of the thyroid. The crico-arytenoideus posticus is a small square- shaped muscle on each side, arising from a depression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passing upwards and outwards to be inserted into the base of the arytenoid. The arytenoideus is by some authors divided into three, VIZ., the arytenoidei, transversi, and obliqui. It is, how- ever, better to describe it as one muscle, of which the deepest fibres pass transversely from one arytenoid car- tilage to the other, whUst the more superficial pass ob- liquely from the top of one arytenoid cartilage to the base of the other, thus forming a St. Andrew's cross in appearance. The remaining muscles are all situated within the Jarynx. .ffW^f^'M'^'^lM''''^'"" P^''"' internal angle of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the arytenoid. snrT?iTtr''^''""f "'.-f P^^^^^^ tlie internal "t:utcI'rngT'' ''''''''' '''' '^'^ -TtenoidANATOMY. 224 The thyro-epiglottideus seems to be but a few of the upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior is a very small and indistinct muscle, passing in the fold of mucous membrane, commonly known as the false chorda vocalis. The aryteno-epiglottideus inferior is a better developed muscle than the preceding, and by its action can diminish or alter the shape of the sacculus laryngis. From its having been most accurately described by Mr. Hilton it has received the name of Hilton's muscle. The arteries of the larynx are, the superior laryngeal or thyroid, from the external carotid ; and inferior laryngeal, from the subclavian. The mucous membrane of this organ is studded with numerous follicles, some of which have obtained the name of glands; some of these aggregated just above the epi- glottis, between it and the tongue, imbedded in some fat, form the so-called epiglottidean gland, whilst others, situated near the arytenoid cartilages, have been called the arytenoid glands. The nerves are chiefly from the pneumogastric, the superior laryngeal appearing to be a nerve of sensation, the inferior "laryngeal the true nerve of motion and of voice. The Trachea extends from the cricoid cartilage to the bronchi, from about the fourth cervical vertebra to oppo- site the third dorsal. It is covered anteriorly by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and thyroid gland ; posteriorly it is in contact with the oesophagus; laterally it is bounded by the large vessels of the neck, the nervus vagus and sympathetic nerve, and in the chest is crossed by the left vena innominata, somewhat by the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta. Its figure is that of a cylindrical tube, rather flattened posteriorly, and diminishing in capacity as it descends. It is composed of from fifteen to twenty segments of cartilaginous rings, incomplete posteriorly, the space being filled up by a musculo-membranous substance: in the expanded state of the trachea the cartilages form two thirds of a circle ; when it is contracted or collapsed about three fourths. They are deepest in front, and differ from each other in depth and size: they are largest superiorly,LAEYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 225 thinner and nearer inferiorly, excepting the last, which is the deepest of all,- they are united together by perpen- dicular hgamentous fibres. The substance which completes the rings posteriorly is fibro-muscular. The fibres are connected transversely with the edges or ends of the cartilaginous rings; longitudinally, they descend from the cricoid cartilage to the bronchi! The lining mucous membrane of the trachea is continuous from the upper part of the larynx to the minutest rami- fications of the bronchi. It is always moist, soft, and elastic; is thinner than in the larynx, and gradually more so as it passes into the ramifications of the bronchi. The bronchi are formed by the bifurcation of the trachea opposite the third dorsal vertebra. ' The right bronchus is larger than the left, and is shorter, reaching the lung on a line with the fourth dorsal vertebra. It passes under the arch of the vena azygos, behind the vena cava superior. The left bronchus passes under the arch of the aorta accompanied by the left pulmonary artery and corres- ponding veins. The structure of the bronchi is similar to that of the trachea. They divide and subdivide into numerous rami- fications, till they appear to pass in a fine ligamentous tissue. The thjroid gland, or more properly body, is situated on the front of the neck, beneath the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, cervical fascia and integuments. It con- sists of two lateral lobes, connected in the middle by a portion of less depth, named the isthmus, which lies upon the third ring of the trachea; each lateral portion extends upwards to the side of the thyroid cartilage, and down wards as far as the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea It IS convex anteriorly, concave posteriorly; of a duskv-red colour; composed of a number of cells, containing gene- rally a viscid fluid ; and is very copiously supplied with blood-vesse s from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries on each side, the former being from the external ca o d the latter rom the subclavian; and sometimes an azygo branch in the centre, given off from the arch of the aoTa It has no excretory tube, and its exact use is unknown 10§ANATOMY. 226 THOKACIC VISCERA. The thorax is a conical cavity, bounded superiorly by the first rib, the sternum, first dorsal vertebra, and the soft parts entering and passing out of the chest; inferiorly by the diaphragm; anteriorly by the sternum and cartilages of the ribs ; laterally by the bodies of the ribs and inter- costal muscles; and posteriorly by the spine and the angles of the ribs. The parts which pass through the upper aperture, are, the trachea, thyroid veins, right and left carotid and sub- clavian internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries, internal jugular and subclavian veins, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, nervus vagus, and recurrent nerve of the left side, the oesophagus, the cardiac and sympa- thetic nerves, and longus colli of each side, and the thoracic duct, besides some other parts of minor im- portance. , The contents of the thorax are the lungs and 'pleurm, the heart and pericardium, and the contents of the anterior and posterior mediastinum. The pleura of each side is a smooth serous membrane, forming a shut sac; one portion, lining the inside of the ribs, and the thickest, is called pleura costahs; the part reflected over the lungs is named pleura jndmoialis. It is also reflected upon the pericardium and diaphragm, on each side. By some anatomists a distinct fibrous membrane is described as existing between the ribs and the pleura. This membrane is lubricated by a soft fluid or hahtus ; and the two portions are, during health, in constant appo- sition, solely with the intervention of this fluid. These oval bags, by nearly meeting near the centre ot the chest, form two triangular interstices, named the anterior and posterior mediastinum. Some anatomists add to these a third mediastinum, including within it the heart, pericardium, and phrenic nerves. . , „ The anterior mediastinum, separated superiorly from the posterior one by the bifurcation of the trachea, the arch ot the aorta and venae innominatse, contains the remains ot the thymus gland, the origin of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, lymphatics from the surface ot the liver the left internal mammary artery and vein, andTHORACIC VISCEKA. 227 triangularis sterni muscle. Its base is formed by the sternum, its sides by the pleura of each side, and its apex by their approximation. It is more on the left than the right side of the chest, on account of the manner in which the left pleura is reflected upon the pericardium, and the right lung advancing nearer to the mesial line of the sternum than the left one. The thijmus gland, scarcely perceptible in the adult, is of a considerable size in the foetus and young child ; it is first observable about the fourth month of fcetal life, in- creasing till birth; after which it remains stationary, or increases shghtly till about the end of the first or second year, when it begins gradually to decrease. It consists of two elongated lobes, placed side by side in the anterior medias- tinum. The structure of this body is somewhat like that of the thyroid; within it a cellular structure is observed, with sometimes a quantity of thick fluid like chyle, and, according to some anatomists, the numerous cells or vesicles, all communicate with a tube running longi- tudinally in this body. It is very vascular, but the use of It IS unknown. Its supply of blood is from the internal mammary artery. T^hQ posterior mediastinum extends from the third to the tenth or eleventh dorsal vetebra. It contains the mo- phagus, aorta descendens, the thoracic duct, the par vagum ot each side, the vena aztjgos, some lymphatic glands and vessels, and the splanchnic nerves; but by some these nerves are considered to be a little beyond the boundaries ot this mediastinum. The (esophagus, inclined to the left side of the spine at the lower part, is most anterior, and is accompanied bvthe par vagum ; the right par vagum is rather behind, but the on thVw^V behind it is the aorta, a little on the left side of the spine. On the right is the vena azygos, and between these the thoracic duct Ihe Lungs are conical bodies, occupying the sides of the chest, and on each side of the mediisfinn Ti firmly attached to the heart by mea„ of tlJ^'^ vessels, and to the trachea by tl JbrS . k "r fleS ot the pleura, from the dianlino-m «p ii i ^i-nexion side, is named bylm luhnomZ I ^^fr latum pulmonum.) ^ (%«men^«»i228 ANATOMY. They are invested by the pleura pulmonalis, which is more delicate than the membrane lining the ribs. The two layers of pleura are in close contact, having between them only a very minute portion of fluid to lubricate them in a healthy state, but no particle of air. If by accident or design an aperture is made into the bag of the pleura, the lung collapses from the atmospheric pressure, or more probably contracts, and the breathing becomes diflScult and painful. The colour of the lungs varies with the age. In the in- fant it is red; about twenty, it is bluish; and in more advanced age bluish-grey, with dark spots dispersed upon them. The shape of the lungs is conical; the apex projects a little above the first rib ; they are flattened anteriorly, con- vex posteriorly : the surface in contact with the pericardium is concave, particularly of the left lung; they are longest posteriorly, in the perpendicular direction. The lungs posteriorly present an obtuse margin, ante- teriorly a thin margin, which is short and irregular. The anterior and inferior margin of each lung is veiy acute. There is a deep arched hollow in the lower part of the left lung for the apex of the heart. The right lung is largest, and slightly extends highest in the neck. It is divided into three lobes, but is shortest, in consequence of the situation of the liver. The lungs have a spongy feel, and crepitate with the pressure of the finger ; they are composed of the bronchi, with their ramifications, terminating in air-cells, and lined by a mucous membrane, the pulmonary and [bronchial arteries and veins, nerves, absorbents, and glands, con- nected together by cellular tissue, and invested by their general covering, the pleura. The weight of the two lungs is estimated at about 40 ounces. On examining the minute structure of the lungs, we find them to be composed of a number of lobules connected together by interlobular cellular tissue. This cellular tissue is extremely delicate, often infiltrated with serum or air, as in emphysema; and gives passage to the minute lymphatic vessels. The lobules do not communicate with each other, laey are attached to the ramifications of the bronchi and vessels,THORACIC VISCERA. 229 like grapes to their stalk; and each lobule may be con- sidered as a separate lung. They are not all distended ■with air, in ordinary inspiration, nor by the most powerful efforts that can be made. Those of the upper part of the lungs seem to be most filled, and are most constantly in action. Each lobule is composed of a collection of air-cells, or vesicles, which communicate freely together; these cells vary in size, and always contain some air in the healthy state. The partition between them is imperfect, and is composed of a very delicate cellular tissue. These cells consist of a thin fibrous tissue, lined with mucous mem- brane, and upon their walls the minute capillary branches of the pulmonary arteries and veins ramify. The average quantity of the air which the lungs contain is not quite agreed upon; perhaps 200 cubic inches may be taken as the mean. This proportion will vary with the state of inspiration and expiration, as in each of those actions without effort, a ehange of from 20 to 30 cubic inches IS supposed to take place. The carbonic acid evolved from the lungs in twenty-four hours has been es- imated as much as 24,000 cubic inches, sufficient to afi^ord U or 12 ounces of solid carbon. The pulmonary arteries, unlike other arteries, carry venous blood for the purposes of the system generallv Iheir coats are slightly thinner than those of other arteries 1 he bronchial arteries derived from the aorta are designed for the nutrition of the lungs. ^ The imlmonary veins carry arterial or decarbonised blood and are firmer in their coats than veins in general They the heart'" terminate in the left auricle of The lungs are supplied with nerves from the pulmonary p exuses, formed chiefly by the par vagum, together wkh filaments from the sympathetic. ' a wun fi.i!f' "!iT'^'''^' V" deep-seated and super- ficia^. They pass to the bronchial glands at the roots^ of230 A.NATOMY. one is serous, lining tlie fibrous coat, and reflected over the heart itself. It has also a partial covering from the pleura of each side, and is strengthened below by its at- tachment to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm. The fibrous bag of the pericardium is firmly attached to the central tendon of the diaphragm, inferiorly; laterally, to the pleura; and superiorly it is reflected upon the large vessels for some distance, and finally becomes con- tinuous -with their outer coat. It consists of fibres running in various directions, and is said to have eight openings in it, for the transmission of the large vessels; viz., one for the superior vena cava, two for the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery, one for the aorta, and four for the pulmonary veins. The vena cava inferior is immediately connected with the substance of the heart after its passage through the diaphragm, and it is said not to be surrounded by this fibrous coat. This statement appears very strange, if we admit that the fibrous bag surrounds the heart entirely; for in this case, the vein must either pass through the fibrous bag to the heart, or the heart must perforate the bag to reach the inferior vena cava. The lining serous coat is a shut sac, containing a small quantity of thin fluid {liquor pericardii) for the purpose of lubricating it, and allowing the free motion of the heart in the pericardium. THE HEART. The heart is a hollow muscle, of rather a pyi-amidal figure, placed obhquely in the lower and front part of tbe thorax, and most inclined to the left side. It is convex above, rather flattened below, where it rests upon the diaphragm. i- • i j • It is commonly described as externally divided into an apex, body, and base, a superior and inferior surface, and a right and left margin. The apex points between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. The base corresponds with the fourth'and fifth dorsal vertebrae. The right margin is longest but thinnest. The heart physiologically may be considered as double; the right side, called pulmonarij, to transmit the blood only to the lungs; the other systemic, from forcing the blood into all parts of the system. The right cavity of theTHE HEABT. 231 heart is more capacious; the parietes of the left are con- siderably the thickest. The substance of the heart is formed of its muscular portion, its investing and lining membrane, and its proper vessels and nerves. The cavities of the heart are four: two at the base, called auricles; and two at the apex, named ventricles. When the pericardium is opened and the heart is in situ, the right side of the heart principally is brought into view; the parts seen are the right auricle and ventricle, the termination of the venae cavae, the appendix of the left auricle, the part of the left ventricle forming the apex of the heart, the root of the pulmonary artery and aorta, and the proper vessels of the heart, ramifying on its surface. • The riffht auricle of the heart may be divided into the large smooth portion, named simcs venosus, and the auricula propria. The openings into the sinus are, one from the superior vena cava, one from the inferior vena cava, one from the coronary vein, and one into the right ventricle; and, according to some anatomists, little venous openings^ termed foramina Thesbesii. In the septum between this and the left auricle there is a depression named fossa ovalis, corresponding with the previous situation of the forameri ovale, surrounded by the annulus fosses ovalis. There is frequently a slight valvular opening in the substance filling up the fossa. ° A projection may be observed between the openings of the vense cavae, named tuberculum Loweri. From the upper margin of the inferior cava, a fold extends towards the annulus fosscE ovalis, named the Eustachian valve less evident in the adult, but in the foetus supposed to direct the blood from the inferior cava into the left auricle • between this and the auriculo-ventricular opening is the orifice of the coronary vein, with a valve partly covering it Ihe auricula propria ov appendix auricula', communicates with the smus venosus by a circular opening. It contains fleshy pillars named muscuU pectinati, whfch also extend m a thinner form over the anterior and upper surface of he sinus venosus. Some have supposed Sfat the u 1i these fibres IS to commingle the blood of the two cav^ which IS of a very different quality; that of the uppS232 ANATOMY. vessel, containing the fluid poured into the circulation by the thoracic duct. The right ventricle has two openings into it, the auriculo- ventricular, and the opening into the pulmonary artery. It is of a triangular shape, the base being towards the right auricle, the apex near, but a little above the real apex of the heart; it is separated from the left ventricle by a thick partition, named septum cordis. The auriculo- ventricular opening is guarded by a fold of the lining membrane, named tricuspid valve, from presenting three triangular portions; of these one is anterior; another posterior; the third towards the left side, separating this opening from that of the pulmonary artery; this, the largest portion, has been named the septum of Lieutaud; at the attached base of this valve a ring of a tendinous nature is observed underneath the lining membrane ; this is named the zona tendinea, and enters partly into the structure of the tricuspid valve, giving strength to it. A similar tendinous zone exists at the left auriculo-ventncular opening. These tendinous zones are the most fixed points of attachment for the muscular fibres of the heart. To the edges of the valve little tendinous strings are attached, named chordce tendinea, which, at their other extremity are connected with projecting muscular bundles, named carnece columncs. At the upper and anterior part, and to the extreme left, is the opening of the pulmonary artery, towards which the walls become smooth. This part is named pars plana, and, from an appearance of contracting towards the opening, is called infundibulum. The carnece columnce may be divided into three sets, one attached to the entire length of the wall of the ventricle another attached at each end, with the centre free, the third attached at one end to the waU of the cavity, the other con- nected with the chordae tendinese. The opening of the pulmonary artery is guarded by three semilunar or sigmoid folds, or valves, each ot which, in the centre of its free margin, has a little granular body, called corpus sesamoideum, or corpusculum Arantii. The pulmonary artery, passing upwards and backwards, nearly two inches and a half within the pericardium, divides into right and left branches. The right, which is the largest, passes under the arch of the aorta, and separates233 THE HEAKT. into three branches, which enter and ramify in the lung. The left branch crosses over the descending aorta, and divides into two branches, which, like the right, divide and subdivide, terminating in capillary vessels, which reflected form the commencement of the four pulmonary veins. The left auricle, situated at the upper and back part, like the right one, has a smooth portion, named sinus arteriosus, and an auricular appendix containing musculi pectinati, but not so large as on the right side. There are five openings into it, four from the pulmonary veins, entering at its angles, and one into the left ventricle, rather smaller than on the right side. The fossa ovalis, with its annulus, may be perceived, but is not so evident as in the right auricle. The left ventricle, of a conical form, has parietes much thicker than the right, and is longer, but its capacity for blood is rather smaller. Its extremity forms the apex of the heai't; its inner wall forms the greater portion of the septum ventriculorim. It has an opening from the auricle, and one into the aorta. The auricular opening is sur- rounded or guarded by the mitral or bicuspid valve, which is strengthened by the chordce tendinece, and these are attached by their other extremity to the carnece columncB. The mitral valve consists of two pieces, of which the right one is much the larger, and is placed between the opening from the auricle and that into the aorta, and is more deserving the name of septum than a similar portion of the tricuspid valve : its use is to divide the two currents of blood. At the upper part of the ventricle, and rather anterior to the auricular orifice, is the opening into the aorta. The aorta and pulmonary artery are connected to the heart in a similar manner. The external and internal coats are continuous with those of the heart, but the middle elastic coat has a peculiar arrangement. It is found to commence by a defined edge, presenting three festoons, by which a few tendinous fibres connect it with the substance of the heart. At these openings, tendinous zones are described as existing, like those at the auriculo-ventricular openings, but are much weaker and less visible. At the commencement of the aorta there are three sigmoid or semilunar valves, with the corpora sesamoidea, as in theANATOMY. 234 pulmonary artery. During the action of the left ventricle these valves are pressed back into three small hollows existing at the root of the aorta as well as of the pulmonary artery, and called the sinuses of Valsalva. The structure of the muscular substance of the heart is very peculiar, and that of the ventricles is most de- serving of attention. The ventricles appear to consist of two muscular bags, contained within a third, common to both. All the muscular fibres take their origin from the tendinous zones, which may be observed between the junction of the auricles and ventricles, and also terminate in them. They are arranged in successive layers, but the fibres of them are in some measure blended with each other, so that it is impossible to assign to them any definite number. The superficial fibres common to both ventricles, are obhque and curvilinear, proceeding from the base towards the apex; those on the anterior surface pass from right to left, those on the posterior inferior surface in an opposite direction. These fibres do not terminate at the apex, but are matted together, and reflected back towards the base again. Some of the superficial fibres at the apex of the "heart are curved and turned inwards, forming reflected fibres, which constitute the fleshy pillars of the The proper fibres of each ventricle are placed between the superficial and deep fibres of the common muscular coat, in the form of a cone, and resting against each other, with a superior large opening, viz., auricular, and an in- ferior small one, which gives passage to the deep fibres. They proceed from the tendinous zone, in a spiral manner from the base to the apex and back again. The common reflected deep fibres pass in, as just mentioned, and diverge in a radiating manner, and are distributed in three modes: some pass to the opposite wall of the interior of the ventricle, others run along the inside of the same wall, and a thivd set forms the carnese columnse. The muscular fibres of the auricles are also of two kinds, proper and common: the latter run in a transverse direction ; the proper fibres are thin, and take their origin from the auriculo- ventricular zone, and also return to it. Some of them run235 THE HEAKT. obliquely, others perpendicularly, and are more developed on the left than right auricle. The first arteries given off from the aorta are the right and left coronary, for the supply of the heart itself. These vessels are sent off before the pericardium quits the aorta, and receive their blood in a different manner from all other arteries in the body, viz., the blood enters them by regur- gitation, and flows in a retrograde du-ection. The right coronary artery passes along the right border of the pulmonary artery, then transversely in the groove between the right auricle and right ventricle, to the under surface of the heart, as far as the septum, where it divides into two branches; one runs in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, anastomosing with the left coronary, the other descends between the two ventricles as far as the apex of the heart. The left coronary artery, smaller than the right, comes oft from the aorta, a little higher up, and is first observed between the pulmonary artery and left auricle; when it arrives at the septum ventriculorum, it divides into two branches, one takes a transverse course to the left, running in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, anasto- mosing with the right coronary; the other runs down on the upper surface of the heart, along the septum of the ventricles as far as the apex. From these vessels minute branches pass into the several parts of the heart, and supply the roots of the large vessels. The veins of the heart, which return the blood from the coronary arteries, ultimately unite into one, which termi- nates in the right auricle between the opening of the inferior vena cava, and the right auriculo-ventricular oST^' valvular fold partially covering the The nerves supplying the heart are principally derived from the cardiac filaments of the sympathetic in t^he n ck and in a less degree from the pneumo-gastric. rhe muscular tissue of the heart is peculiar; for although 18 involuntary in its action, it has striped muscular fibres ouLr'llTrroflfb^d;''^" '''' Jr^thl'^Zf T^''''' '^^''^ commences the aorta, which at first ascends upwards towards the rightANATOMY. 236 side, as high as the upper border of the second right costal cartilage; it then bends backward to the left, and opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra becomes the descending thoracic aorta—thus consisting of the ascending part, arch, and descending portion. The relation of the three parts are chiefly the following. Relations of the ascending part of the arch: Anteriorly, first at its root the. pulmonary artery, then right appendix auricula, pericardium, remains of the thymus and sternum. Posteriorly, the right pulmonary artery and veins. On the right, descending vena cava. On the left, pulmonary artery. Relations of the transverse part of the arch: Anteriorly, partially the left pleura and lung, left vena innominata, left par vagum. Posteriorly, trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. Above, the arteria innominata, left carotid and suhclavian are given off from it. Below, the left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Relations of the descending part of the arch: ' Anteriorly, the root of the right lung. Posteriorly, the third dorsal vertebra. On the right, the oesophagus and thoracic duct. On the left, the pleura and left lung. At the commencement of the aorta, immediately beyond the valves, three slight pouches are seen corresponding with the valves : these are named aortic sinuses, or smuses of Valsalva, and in this locahty are seen two foramina, the orifices of the coronary arteries. The branches from the arch of the aorta are : The arteria innominata, which divides iuto right carotid and right subclavian. The left carotid. The left subclavian. These vessels will be specially described with the ' Regional Anatomy.' The thoracic aorta gives off: Bronchial arteries, to nourish the lungs. (Esophageal. Intercostal, to the pleura, intercostal muscles, and spine.THE ABDOMINAL AOKTA. 237 The Bronchial arteries come off rather irregularly from the under part of the arch of the aorta, being sometimes pai-tly derived from the intercostal arteries, but more fre- quently so on the right side : tbey are usually two to each lung, which structure they are supposed to nourish. The (Esophageal arteries come off from the anterior part of the aorta rather regularly, and are four or five in number supplymg the oesophagus during its descent. The Intercostals from the aorta are generally ten on each side those of the right being the longest, on account of the position of the aorta; they pass in front of the spine behind the oesophagus, sympathetic nerve, and vena azygos. \Uen he intercostals of each side reach the intercostal space, they give off a dorsal trunk, then proceed onwards, first between the pleura and external intercostal muscles Zt' ^%f^%^"Slf^ «f tlie ribs, when they run forwards between the two layers of intercostal muscles, giving off superficial penetrating branches, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal branches from the internal mammary Z llu \ ^ t« the lower bordeV of each rib, haying generally their corresponding vein upenoriy, and the nerve inferioriy. At the angles^of the ribs they give off a branch which runs along °the upper border of the nb below. The posterior trunk°diyides "^nto branches which supply the bodies of the verSl The spinal cord with its coverings, and the deep muscles of Z J^^ ^ena azygos commences by the union of two or three Tends m'th^"? P'^"^^- ^^^^^^h the diaphragm ascends in the posterior mediastinum on the righ[sidf of the spme, receiving the right intercostal, bronchll Ld oesophageal, and the five or sixlower left iMe costal vein^ after rece.vmg these vessels it winds roui d tbl i bronchus, descends, and ends in The suoerinr just before it enters the pericardhtn ^ Ihe superior left intercostal veins wifV. fl^^i a i and esophageal, form the ^upe^^Xtto^^^^^^ or azygos ,ninor superior, which term nl s fn tl e 1^"''°^ innominata, or crosses over ' .^^^ fhe left vena vena azygos. 'P^'^^ *° ""ite with the The five or six lower Ipff- ;nfn«„ l ^ lower lett intercostal veins ordinarily238 ANATOMY. unite into one vessel, which is named by some anatomists azygos minor inferior. It generally crosses the spine to pass into the vena azygos on the right side. The use of the azygos system of veins is not only to return the blood from the neighbouring veins, but also to establish a communication between the superior and in- ferior venae cavEe, and between the vessels of the two sides of the body. When the inferior vena cava is obstructed, much of the blood from the lower limbs and abdomen may reach the heart through the medium of the vena ^^^hl'thoracic duct, the largest trunk of the absorbent system, commences at the third lumbar vertebra, by an en- larged extremity, termed receptaculum chyli, formed by the union of the absorbents of the lower extremities and pelvis, and ioined by the lacteals ; it passes up through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, between the aorta and vena azygos ; rather above these it quits the mesial line, and runs up behind the aorta, ascends in the neck as high as the sixth cervical vertebra, curves downwards, and terminates in the angle formed by the left subclavian and internal iuo-ular veins. It receives the chyle as well as the lymph from the inferior extremities, the left upper extremity the left side of the head and neck, and the left lung. There is a corresponding duct, but of much smaller size, on the riffht side. This receives the lymph only from the right side of the head and neck, the right lung, the light upper extremity, and the surface of the liver. It is called the ductus lymphaticus dexter, or thoracicus minor. ABDOMEN. The abdomen is separated from the chest by the dia- phragm, which is a broad flat expanded muscle, the largest of the body. . . . , The Diaphragm is best described as consisting of two muscles and a central tendon. The large muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage, the inside of the cartilages ot the six lower ribs, and the true and false Ugaraenta arcuata ; from which points the fibres converge, and are inserted into the central tendon. • „ The small muscle consists of the crura, which arise on the right side from the fore part of the bodies and sides of theTHE ABDOMEN. 239 four upper lumbar vertebrae, and on the left, from the sides ot tiie three upper lumbar vertebrae ; from these points the hbres ascend, some of them crossing over and decussating to surround the cesophageal opening, but all are ultimately inserted into the central tendon. ^ The cordiform tendon, as its name implies, is somewhat heart-shaped or triangular, and is stated to resemble a trefoil leaf. Above the diaphragm we find the pleura and pericardium, below it the peritoneum. The openings in the diaphragm are three large and some minor ones. The large openings are for the vena cava, oesophagus, and aorta. ihe openmg of the vena cava is quadrangular in form t"ndon"of";r' ."Sbt sidi, is sifnated in the ThtZ f- *^^%d^^Pj^«g'f' tlie vena cava passing throu-^h this part in order that the column of blood shoiUd not be venrcav?w7fi'T '''^''l'''^ ^^^d- the the rShTJ,' P^^«i°g through it some filaments for liver 1 Iv i''i ""T"' T^'"^ *° the surface of the sScW intjatiS^ - -S^t The aortic opening most posterior, triangular and between he crura, transmits the aorta, vena a™ and thoracic duct, and sometimes one of the^planchnSrves J^^ cesopkaffeal opening is truly musj^ular, anterior to the aortic and a httle more inclined to the left. It m.ts, m addition to the oesophagus, the right and lefrmr" tS'.T^ '.1^^"^^^"^^ '^^'"^^ tbe^coronarf vS triculi artery. The smaller openings are for the internal arrSs:?sj^-^^- ~ mary, and inferior intercostals. ' ^''""^^ ^S^^:^t:S-I^'t£^'^^^^^f. ^g-ts in f-es. fetus, and urin^^T^ff'4aS1^•"^•''^ sneezing, and many other affections ff ^tl?„ apparatus. "uetuons ot the respiratory The Abdomen, the largest cav\Ur i ,240 A.KATOMY. teriorly by the spine, the quadratus lumborum, and pso^ ""The'coverinss of the abdomen are, the cuticle, rete mucosum cutif vera, adipose tissue, cellular tissue (here "ia superficialis.J the muscles with thexr tendmous expansions, fasda transversalis, and P^^'^^^^T" ,,„,^erse inatotniks divide the .bdomen, ^-'^te^nally by transverse or circular lines, into three regions: first a line s dmwn round ^he body on a level with the cartilage of the ninth ^5, and forms tie lov^er boundary of the epigastric region ; ^"''"^':ia'^^^ f LTLll JL; the central 3^si:f:r^^^^-v^'"^^7?rus The abdomen contains the alimentary canal and its appendages, apart of the urinary, and a portion of the ^^'^^S^^ ^^^^^ comprises the ^^^t^Si:^eS::rs^ ulCoS- are the M^eys, the ureters, and part of the bladder, restricted to the are the uterus. Fallopian tubes, ^a>m When the abdomen is ^P^^^^J^^^^^f.S potion parts brought into view are ^ ^^r? th fuLlus of of the anterior and inferior pait ot tue uver, he gall-bladder, a portion ^t fe ^^^^^^ omentum, laterally, portions of the colon. " ^ue on braised, parts of the small -^^^^^^.^^.trusTS tended. iTiav be seen, and part of the bladder or uterus u "\tVn<;.«» is «n clastic -"Z^lk^l^S^^ ''^^' cKity ot the aMomen, and mvestms tUe vaiiouTHE ABDOMEN. 241 giving them strength aud support. Its reflexions from one visciis to another form duplicatures, which receive different names, according to their situation. The reflexion of the peritoneum, from the diaphragm to the liver, forms the ligaments of the liver; that from the liver to the stomach forms the lesser omentum ; from the stomach to the trans- verse colon forms the great omentum ; the portion enclosing the colon forms the mesocolon ; that which extends down aud over the small intestines is called the mesentery. There are, besides these, the ligaments of the bladder, uterus, and rectum, and also the appendices epiploic^, which are formed by it. In the male the peritoneum is a perfectly shut sac ; but in the female there is an opening into it on each side, from the Fallopian tube, the only instance in the body in which a mucous and serous membrane communi- cate. It must be borne in mind that all the viscera are ex- ternal to the peritoneum. Reflexions of the Peritoneum.—l^v&cm^ the peritoneum upwards from the abdominal muscles, it lines the under surface of the diaphragm, passes on to the liver, (forming Its ligaments,) and at its concave part meets a layer comin- from the pillars of the diaphragm and under surface of the stomach. The two layers pass forwards to the smaU curvature of the stomach, forming the lesser omentum cover the stomach, meet at the great curvature, and hang down m folds over the intestines, forming the great omen- tum ; they then ascend and embrace the colon, meet again tormmg the mesocolon, and again separate. The lower layer passes down, is reflected from the spine to the small intestines, surrounds them, and returns to the spine torming the mesentery, then descends laterally over the Jficlneys, part of the rectum, mounts up towards the bladder and uterus and ascends upon the abdominal parietes The ascending layer of the mesocolon goes over\he pancreas duodenum, and crura of the diaphragm, and nJTo Za the other portion at the under surface of the liver Ihis ast portion of the peritoneum lines a space, called the bag of the omentum, which has not a very free coramu,^^^ cafon with the rest of the abdominal cavity I^TIZ opening into it is behind the rounded edge^of the lesser omentum, which contains the large hepatic vessel? and I by some called Glisson's capsule.'ANATOMY. 242 the Foramen of Winslow; and its boundaries are as follow: Anteriorly, the lesser omentum and hepatic vessels. Posteriorly, the ascending layer of the transverse mesocolon. Superiorly, lobulus caudatus or lobulus Spigelii of the Uver. Inferiorly, the superior portion of the duodenum. THIl STOMACH. The Stomach is a musculo-membranous bag, interposed between the oesophagus and duodenum. It is situated in the left hypochondrium, under the left false ribs, extends across the epigastric region, and terminates on reaching the right hypochondrium. The parts in relation with it are : Above and in front, the liver, diaphragm, and ribs. Tnfpriorlv ' the colon and mesocolon. fisterSy, the pancreas, spleen, and left supra-renal capsule. At its right extremity, the duodenum, Uver, and gall-bladder. There are two openings into it, the cardiac or cesopha- neal, and pyloric. The former is most posterior and su- perior, so that the stomach inclines obhquely forwards and downwards. . , ^ . . „ There are two surfaces, an anterior and posterior, in the ordinary state; but when the stomach is distended, the anterior becomes superior, and the PO^t^™"^ f f^^""^; lesser arch is carried further backwards, and the greater more forwards, extending even into the umbihcal region In this state of the stomach, its right extremity is m close contact with the gall-bladder. Th sTomach in its figure resembles a curved or obkng cone- it is largest at its oesophageal end ; the left third beyond the <B^sophagus is caUed the c-lf-e of the stomach, which in the child scarcely exists and wh ch affords an explanation why they vomit with so much ThJpyloric orifice is even smaller than the commence- ment of the duodenum. It is so situate as m a great measure to form an acute angle with the oesophagus The stomach is kept in its situation by its ""1°° JT^r the oesophagus and duodenum, by the lesser and greater on'entum, by the splenic omentum, and by the peritoneum attaching it to the diaphragm.THE STOMACH. 243 The stomach is formed of three coats, a peritoneal, mus- cular, and villous, connected together by cellular tissue. . The peritoneal coat is external; it is a continuation of the small and great omentum, smooth and shining, attached by Its rough surface to the muscular coat. It does not cover the stomach along either curvature where the arteries pass. The muscular coat consists of three series of fibres longitudinal, circular, and oblique. The longitudinal or external fibres are continued from the oesophagus; they spread out upon the surface of the stomach. The external fibres are softer and more diff-used than the internal ones, and are more evident along the curvatures. * The oblique or transverse fibres form the deepest layer • they surround the stomach obliquely, often crossing each other, and are most abundant about the cul-de-sac. I he circular fibres, continued from the oesophagus, are most evident at the pyloric end of the stomach; in the centre they are sometimes strong, and give an hour-glass appearance to the stomach. At the pylorus they are much developed, and form, as it were, a sphincter to it. .Ja \ 7 T'""* '''"^ corrugated, soft, and of a totr^^ T 'T- t.'^' ^"-i l^bri^ated by a ,nn? """"T- '•"^^ ^""^ i» different direc tions: those near the oesophagus have a stellated appear- ance; others, and the most constant, run longitudinally from the great end to the pylorus, connected by kS prominences. These almost disappear when the stomach 8 much distended. A distinct loose fold of it assisTs in the formation of the pylorus. ° This membrane, minutely inspected, presents an im appearance They appear to be composed of a delicate vetX "^^^ P^'-'^^P« of Absorbent be:wl^te"Jurtfth::^r"r ^^^-^^^ Micles; they arf ^lost numerourat tt" "'^'V^' T^"''^ and along the curvatures rono- H ^ ''P''''"'^^ licles nuLrous tubuH open tZl are 1 "'i f '^T and spheroidal epithelium ' ^'"""^ '^^^"'""'^244 ANATOMY. The arterial branches for the supply of the stomach are all from the c^Uac axis. They are, the coronaria ventri- culi ov superior (jnstric, distributed to the smaller curva- ture ; the superior and inferior pyloric, to its pyloric end; the vasa brevia, to the great cul-de-sac and the yastro- epiploica sinistra and dextra, to the larger curvature. Its nerves are chiefly from the par vagum, with some filaments from the sympathetic. i Its veins pass chiefly into the splenic vein, and its ab- sorbents into the thoracic duct. THE INTESTINES. The Intestines are divided into small and large. The leneth of the human intestinal canal is aboat six times greater than that of the trunk; and is still longer m pro- Tjortion in graminivorous animals. The small intestines are the duodenum, jejunum, and ilium. In length they form about two thirds of the intes- ^''^The'^'small intestines, as also the large, have the same coats as the stomach, but with some exceptions m rela- tion to the peritoneum. These coats are generally stated to be three. The muscular coat consists ot two series of fibi' s, longitudinal outside, circular inside. The mucous or vUlous coat, which is much the largest ui the small mtes ines, is Arranged in folds, named valvule conni- ventes, to afford a larger surface for absori^on and^o cause some retardation in the passage of th chyle Th^ coat is studded with mucous follicles; those of the duo denum^^e small conglomerate glands with --tujg d-J. and are named ^Zanr/«/^ Brunner.; ^^^^^.^^^ >J l^^^'^JJ and ilium, glandule, -y^^-'d^'^ ^^T^L^tltSl there exist numerous other small glands formmg the salt tary glands, and the follicles of Lierberkuhn. The first portion, the Duodenum, named from its length being equal to the breadth of twelve fingers r e frSm eight to nine inches, commences at the pyloric end °S%^Sr larger than the other small intestines and from a supposed marvellous distensibility, has been named Dpntricidus succenturiaf^is. -f^^civ. It is also imagined that it is less covered by peritoneum,THE INTESTINES. 24.5 in order that this distension may be more easily accom- plished. The duodenum first inclines upwards, backwards, and to the right, and having arrived near the neck of the gall- bladder, it bends vertically downwards, and again changes to a transverse direction, thus forming two curves or angles. Hence it is convex to the right, concave internally and to the left; and is divided into three portions. Thejirsf portion of the duodenum is in immediate re- lation with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder, poste- riorly with the hepatic vessels and small omentum, and is almost entirely surrounded by peritoneum. Its length is about two inches. The second portion, perpendicular, lias— In front and externally, the ascending colon. Behind, the concave portion of the right kidney Internally, the pancreas. This part is from two to three inches long ; at the lower part of its posterior surface is the opening from the ductus communis choledochus and pancreatic duct; it is only covered anteriorly by peritoneum. The third portion, transverse, is covered anteriorly, by the mesocolon. ^ Bounded above, by the pancreas. Anteriorly, by the stomach. And posteriorly, by the vena cava, aorta, and crura of the diaphragm. The regions occupied by the duodenum, are the rio-ht hypochondrmm, the right lumbar slightly, and finaUy the junction of the proper epigastric and umbilical regions. It is distinguished from the jejunum and ilium by bein- shorter, more partially covered by peritoneum, confined to Its position, and by having more openings into it. Ihe ductus communis choledochus, after passing some way between the muscular and mucous coats, opens iiUo the duodenum, near the junction of the second and third portions and sometimes by a common orifice with he pancreatic duct. It occasionally enters as high up as tl e superior curve or angle, at a distance of two or'three inche from the pylorus. Tlie arteries of the duodenum arrtVon '-esi;::ANATOMY. 246 The rest of the small intestines consist of the jejunum and ilium. The upper two fifths of this portion of the intestines are called jejunum, and the lower three fifths iliu7n. The jejunum, so named from being generally found empty, terminates in the ihum, and closely resembles it in its structure. The distinctive characters of the jejunum from the iliura are, its coats are thicker, it is of a redder colour, has more valvulse conniventes, and consequently a greater surface for absorption. . r i The jejunum and ilium occupy, in part, the umbilical region, parts of the lumbar, iliac, and hypogastric regions, and in some measure rest in the pelvis of the adult. They are covered anteriorly by the great omentum, and sur- rounded by the arch of the colon. In the lower part of the ilium there is a large number ot mucous glands or follicles, named Peyer's glands, collected into clusters, hence named glandulse aggregatse; they occupy the concave surface of the intestine, most distant from the mesentery. In typhus fever and phthisis they are often found inflamed and ulcerated. ,, , , , The jejunum and ilium are supphed with blood by the superior mesenteric artery. _ The large intestines commence at the termination ot the ilium in the right iliac fossa; they are the ccecum, colon, foidi rectum. They have the same coats as the small in- testines, but thinner. Their length is from three feet and a half to four feet, forming about a fifth of the intestinal tube. The c^cum and colon are particularly characterised by their sacculated appearance, occasioned by the longitudinal fibres being somewhat shortened and gathered into bands, and they differ from the small intestines in being wider, shorter, and straighter. and by having the appendices epiploicse attached to them. The ccecum, or caput coli, is the first portion; it com- mences from the ilium, and is situated beneath the right kidney, resting in the right iliac fossa. It is bounded in front by the abdominal panetes; behind by the iliacus muscle ; internally has the iluim ooening into it. It is generally covered by peritoneum on its anterior surface only, but sometimes is surrounded byTHE INTESTINES. 247 it, like the colon ; and may then be said to be attached by a meso-csecum. At the junction of the caecum and colon with the ilium, the lining membrane, with circular muscular fibres, forms folds, called ilio-ccecal and ilio-colic valves. These valves present each a concave border, looking upwards and towards the right side. The ilio-colic portion is horizontal; the ilio-csecal nearly perpendicular : they are united at each extremity, and if either of them be pressed against, within the large bowel, the opening between them becomes almost perfectly closed. There is a little worm-like appendage attached to the caecum at its under and back part, called appendix vermi- formis; it is rudimentary of a much larger part developed in animals. It varies in length from one to six inches, and IS ordinarily of the size of a goose-quill. Its precise position is very uncertain, although it more frequently projects or hangs down over the border of the pelvis. Its cavity is small, ending in a cul-de-sac, and contains a little mucus. Its structure is like that of the large intestines. The use of this body is unknown. The Colon is divided into four portions : the ascending, the transverse, the descending, and its sigmoid flexure, which last terminates in the rectum, opposite the left sacro- uiac synchondrosis. Little folds of peritoneum, containing fat, hang down from the colon, called appendices epiploicce.. The ascending colon passes up on the right side bounded— ' In front, by the abdominal paiietes. Behind, by the quadratus laborum and right kidney Above, by the margin of the liver. transverse colon extends from the right to the left hypochondrium, along the junction of the epigastric, with the umbihcal region; on the right side it touches the gall-bladder, on the left it is jus? below the spl n it is k'^wJVnVtb'V'' the transverse mesocolon; ?hus, abov L , ?M m' ^^^^ sometimes slightly grooved for It. the gall-bladder, the stomach, and lower oart of tbp spleen. Below the transverse colon 'there ^ZrL Jl "STeft n 'r^™"^^'^*^"^^'^^^-'^ byperitoVeum Ihe left lumbar, or descending colon, is bounded in a248 ANATOMY. very similar manner to the right, as to the parietes and small intestines, only reversing the sides; its calibre is rather less, and at the upper part it is deeper seated, it is but slightly covered by peritoneum. u ^ The sifftnoid flexure of the colon is situated m the iett iliac fossa. It is connected by a rather loose fold of peri- toneum, which allows it a considerable degree of motion, and, from its curved form, is supposed to be intended tor the chief reservoir of fsecal matter. It is bounded in front by the abdominal parietes ; behind, by the iliacus muscle on which it rests ; internally, it is in relation with the sraail intestines. It is capable of considerable distension, and is the great reservoir of the fseces in most persons. The lono-itudinal bands, which are three on the ascending and transverse colon, often merge into two in the descending and sigmoid portions, and the sacculi are frequently less ^^^The 'Rectum commences at the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and terminates in the anus. ^ ^, Arising from the left side, it immediately inchnes to the mesial line, follows the curve of the sacrum, and termmates at about an inch beyond and before the coccyx: from this bone it turns a little backwards, and is thus removed from the vagina of the female and urethra of the male It is cylindrical in shape, and not sacculated hke the colon in consequence of the longitudinal fibres being dis- persed over it.generaUy; it is narrow at its upper part, and becomes gradually dilated till it arrives near the anus, inst above which the dilatation is considerable, like a large re- servoir, which sometimes is enormouslydisteuded with x!«ces. Boundaries and Relations.-Beh^nd it. first, there is the sacro-iliac symphysis, then the curvature of the sacrum and coccyx; superiorly, it is attached to the sacrum by a fold of neritoneum, named meso-rectum, and is separated from the symphysis and sacrum by the pyritonms muscle, the sacral plexus, and hypogastric vessels. In the portion beyond the coccyx, the levator and sphincter am form a kind of floor for it. , , i, In front, the rectum is free at its upper part, but adherent in the lower portion ; and, as its relations vary with the sex, thev must be spoken of separately. In the male the upper part looks towards the posteriorTHE INTESTINES. 2A9 wall of the bladder, from which it is separated by some convolutions of the small intestines; at its adherent por- tion, lower down, it is in relation with the bas-fond, or lower fundus of the bladder, where the trigone is situated, and which thus rests upon the rectum. The peritoneum sometimes descends so as to cover this part, and may even extend as far as the prostate gland, forming a cul-de-sac lower than usual; further down the rectum is in close con- tact with- the prostate gland, and still further has some relation to the urethra, but is separated from it by a trian- gular space, the base of which is forwards and downwards, the apex upwards and backwards. in the female, the free portion of the rectum is in appo- sition with the broad ligament. Fallopian tube, and ovary of the left side, the uterus, and the vagina. Between these parts and the rectum there is a cul-de-sac of peri- toneum, as in the male between the rectum and bladder; in this part, when the rectum and uterus are comparatively empty, tiiere are some convolutions of the small intestines. In the lower part, the rectum is in immediate connection with the vagina, to which it is very adherent; but as it descends still lower it quits the vagina as it turns back- wards, and leaves a perineal triangular space, analogous to that in the male. On its sides, the free part of the rectum has convolutions of the small intestines, but lower down a large quantity of loose cellular tissue containing a con- siderable quantity of fat. The inside of the rectum presents a number of longitu- dinal folds, like those of the oesophagus ; and these are intersected by a few semicircular ones. The longitudinal folds have been named the pillars of the rectum. The csecum and part of the colon are supplied with blood from the superior mesenteric artery; the rest of the colon and upper part of the rectum, from the inferior mesenteric; the rest of the rectum receives blood from the internal ihac and iuternal pudic artery. The rectum is one of the most vascular parts of the intestinal canal. Ihe veins of the intestines terminate in the vena port<e, but some of the hoeraorrhoidal veins pass into the internal iliac veins. pathetir^''^^ ""'^ supplied chiefly from the great sym- 11§250 ANATOMY. The rectum alone is supplied with nerves, both from the gangUonic and cerebro-spinal system. This is neces- sitated by the functions of this intestine, which is partly upder the influence of the will, and partly independent of it. THE LIVER. The Liver is a conglomerate gland, the largest of the body, from three to four pounds in weight; it is situated in the right hypochondrium, epigastrium, and part of the left hypochondrium. It is superiorly and anteriorly con- vex, inferiorly and posterioriy concave. Its right margin is rounded, whilst its left comes to a point. It is divided, for the sake of description, into a right and left lobe; on the under surface of the right or large lobe, some anato- mists describe three divisions or lobes, with the names lobulus Spigelii, lobulus caudatus, and lohulus quadratus. The latter is the quadrangular portion, bounded by the gall-bladder to the right, the transverse fissure behind, fossa umbilicaUs to the left, and acute margin of the liver in front and below. The lobulus Spigelii is behind the transverse fissure, between the vena cava inferior, and fossa ductus venoai. The liver is kept in its place by five ligaments, which are named the broad, the round, the right and left lateral, and the coronary ligament. These ligaments are formed by the peritoneum, excepting the round ligament, which consists of the remains of the umbilical vein. The liver has two coats, the peritoneal and tunica pro- pria, of cellulo-fibrous structure, which also surrounds the difi'erent vessels, and accompanies them to their minutest ramifications, thus forming the real capsule of Ghsson ot Mr. Kiernan. There are five fissures, or depressions ot the liver, viz., the great or longitudinal fissure, which may be divided into two parts ; the anterior half, named fossa umbilicalis, giving lodgment to part of the round ligament in the adult, and to the umbilical vein in the toetus; the posterior half, named/o*sa ductas venosi, from its function during foetal life; the fissure for the vena porta;, named sulcus transversus, or sinus venae portarum, through wliicti pass the great vessels, nerves, biliary ducts, and absorb-THE LIVEH. 251 ents; that for the vena cava, and the depression for the y all-bladder. There are also several depressions of the liver mentioned, but they are generally very indistinct; there is one for the stomach, one for the colon, and one for the right kidney, and a groove for the oesophagus. The liver may be considered as a collection of little livers or acini, which are composed of ramifications of blood-vessels, absorbents, biliary ducts, and nerves con- nected together by cellular substance. The minute structure of the liver has been investigated by Mr. Kiernan, one of the most skilful anatomists of the present age. The results of his observations have the following purport: He first commences by stating that the liver has three surfaces, viz., the commonly received surface, the portal surface, and the hepatico-venous; the two latter are such as would be exposed by mechanically separating the lobules of the liver from the branches of these vessels. The ramifications of the venae hepaticse resemble a tree with its branches, upon which the lobules are placed. The lobules have somewhat an hexangular form con- nected together by a delicate cellular tissue, but presenting between each other interlobular spaces, which lodge the interlobular veins. The interlobular veins are the minute ramifications of the vena portse, which are joined by the minute branches ot the hepatic artery, and thus form now but one system of vessels. These interlobidar veins send into each lobule from Its circumference to its centre, minute branches' which, by interlacing, form the lobular venous plexuses'- these minute branches secrete the bile, and reunite in the centre of the lobule, forming the intralobular veins These intralobular veins pass into the sublobular veins which are the primary rootlets of the vencB cavcc hepatic J Ihe hepatic artery, after entering the portal canals divides into branches, which are supposed to nourish Se ivei, and subsequently are lost to view by pasr. int :imif^nf vlsl.^'^ ^^"^ ^--.^ a^sii-gl: The biliary tubes, commencing in each lobule, emerge at the circumference, run in the interlobular spaces, and by252 ANATOMY. uniting tOgetlier in the portal canals, form, ultimately, tlie hepatic duct. Thus it will he seen that the blood for the nutrition of the liver is brought by the hepatic artery, wliilst that for the special function is brought by the portal vein. The reflected blood from both vessels "being returned into the system by the hepatic veins, whilst the bile is carried off by the hepatic duct. It would appear, however, by the blood of the hepatic artery being passed through the portal circulation of the liver before entering the \ense cavse hepaticae, that some bile occasionally may be secreted from that source, and such has sometimes been found to be the case, for, in a few rare instances, the portal vein has been found entirely obstructed, whilst the secretion of bile has proceeded almost as usual. The portal vein has by some been considered as forming a species of third vascular system, for in it the venous blood collected from the intestinal canal is gathered into a large trunk, which passes into the transverse fissure of the liver to divide, as previously mentioned. It is not clearly known how the portal blood has sufficient impetus to go through this additional circulation (for the portal vein has no valves). But by some the vis a tergo of the venous blood has been thought sufficient, whilst others have made the spleen the organ for its propulsion ; a third party have considered that the portal vein has special propulsive powers, though they have not adduced sufficient proof to support such an hypothesis. The vena portse is formed by the junction ot the superior mesenteric vein, with the splenic vein, which, before the junction, receives besides the veins of the spleen, the veins of the stomach pancreas, and inferior mesenteric vein. It carries blood of a very dark colour, and is unlike all other vessels of the body ; for it commences like a vein, by small branches, which converge to form a large trunk, behind the pancreas, and this entering the liver, resembles aii artery in its mode of division and ramifications, and functions. The excretory ducts of the liver, tubuli biliani, arise from the acini or lobules, and ultimately unite to form the hepatic duct, which, by joining itself with the cystic duct, forms the ductus communis choledochus.THE PANCREAS. 25J The nerves of the liver are derived from the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic, and partly from the pneumo- gastric and phrenic nerves. The gull bladder is on the concave surface of the rio-ht lobe. It consists of a fundus, body, and cervix. It has three coats, a partial, external, ov peritoneal, a middle one fibrous, {musndar, Miiller,) and a villous coat A duct proceeds from the cervix, called ductus cysticus, which joms the hepatic duct, and forms the ductus communis choledochus. Ihis Litter duct is about two inches and a halt m length, and terminates in the duodenum The hning coat of the gall-bladder has a reticulated Jioneycomb appearance, but does not possess any foIHcles for the purpose of secretion. It is useful as a reservoir of the bile and may possibly absorb some of the thinner parts of this fluid. ^"uci The cystic duct presents internally a number of folds ^hichare generally circular ; sometimes they run perpei- d.cularly, or in a spinal du-ection. Their free ed4 s Z^aJ^^' P-4e of thos^: livTr''"^^^ ^'•'^^ ^^^^ --^ - THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas is a long, flattened, glandular body, placed in the back part of the epigastric region, behind the • stomach, and in front of the spine. Its ?rea er ex remi^K reamed the head, is connected bv cellulaVsi bsh.^ e wiS he duodenum; its les.er, called Ihe tail, with he 'pll It has the stomach and small omentum in front and opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The parts fold 1 the trunk of the vena port*, the superior mesenteric arterv and accompanying nerves, the vena cava, the aoi^n In^ pillars of the diaphragm : towards the left side iM, immedmte relation with the renal vessels tL pft " and its capsule Its nnnpv w, . t'le left kidney, border thi„„e,, I^aS' I, .«,e,.ter,e .r,er,, its head n-sls agatrrlo:'";'"254 ANATOMY. the duodenum, and touches the ductus communis chole- dochus ; the left extremity rests against the spleen. Pro- jecting from the head of the pancreas is sometimes seen a small depending portion of similar structure, which (when it exists) is called the lesser pancreas. . It resembles the salivary glands in structure, and is nearly identical in the fluid it secretes; hence it is otten enumerated amongst the salivary glands. It has no distinct capsule, but a delicate cellular tissue unites the various lobules together. Each lobule emits a duct which passes directly into the large duct, running the whole length o the pancreas, from left to right. The pancreatic duct pours its fluid into the ductus communis choledochus, just before it opens into the duodenum; sometimes there is a second duct, which perforates the duodenum separately The arteries of the pancreas are branches from the hepatic, splenic, and superior mesenteric. Its veins go to the vena portse, and its nerves are from the great solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is a soft oblong body of a purpUsh colour, situated in the left hypochondrium, between the large extremity of the stomach and the false ribs; its lower part is behind the colon, and rests upon the upper end of the left kidney; it is externally convex, internally concave, and is covered by peritoneum and its tunica propria Its weight in the healthy adult varies from four to ten "''The V«nic« propria of the spleen is of a fibro-cellular nature, and besides covering the spleen generally, sends processes into it, which are connected by transverse band., named trabeculce. . , .^,1 The internal structure of the spleen is much disputed, some contend that the splenic artery t^minates m very small branches, which are coiled up like the slieU ot a snail, and which admit of considerable distension: the e have been named helicine arteries. This organ seems 0 be largely composed of cells, which communicate tree y with the ieins, as may be seen by injections, but less free > with the arteries ; there seems to be an interposed str^i^tm c between the two vessels ; these cells are elastic, like all part.THE KIDNEYS. 255 of the spleen, and at times are liable to enormous distension, as in agues. A quantity of dark tluid is obtained from the spleen by pressure; this may be washed away by water, but does not seem to be of the nature of a secretion, for it has no excretory duct. It varies in size, at different periods of hfe; it is smallest in the infant, and becomes gradually larger until about forty years of age, after which It generally is reduced in size. Its artery, called the splenic, arises from the cceliac. Its vem assists in forming the vena port«; it receives nerves from the great solar plexus. THE KIDNEYS. The Kidneys are two oval glandular bodies, smooth on their surface, but lobulated in the foetus during the early months, placed behind the peritoneum on each side of the spine resting upon the diaphragm and quadrati lumborum muscles, opposite the two last dorsal and two superior lumbar vertebrae. The right is a httle the lower, in con- sequence of the situation of the liver. They are about four inches m length and two in breadth ; they have two surfaces, an anterior one convex, a posterior one' flattened • they have two extremities, of which the superior is the largest and nearest the spine ; a convexity externally and a concavity internally. ^ The boundaries of the right kidney are, superiorly, the renal capsule and hver ; inferiorly, the caecum, but scarcely ever descends so low; anteriorly, the ascending colon and duodenum; posteriorly, the diaphragm and quadratus lumborum; externally, the diaphragm and abdominal pane es ; mternally, the crura of the diaphragm, the p oas The boundaries of the left kidney are, superiorly thp •spleen; externally and posteriorly, as on the opposke side; anteriorly, the descending colon; and internX us vessels, the crura of the diaphragm, psoa, aortal 'al?d nat^;:,'K^^^^^^^^^ they^a^^^^^^^^^I 256 ANATOMY. They are composed of two substances: the outer por- tion, called cortical or granular; the inner one, tubular or medullary. , . . . , The cortical substance is about two hues in thickness as a general rule ; but it sends considerable prolongations into the substance of tlie tubular part, which pass between its cones. Its colour is reddish, and its structure some- what soft. It is composed of an immense number ot small tubes, called tubuli uripiferi, in connection with which may be seen numerous .extremely minute granular bodies called Malpighian corpmcules. Each of these latter is formed by a tuft of capillary arteries arranged in a slight dilatation or depression of a tubulus uriniferus, which forms a capsule This capsule is pierced by an afferent artery, (which, by its branches, forms the tuft,) and from it proceeds a sma efferent vein. These efferent veins unite to form small venous plexuses, which surround the tubuli urinifen, and unite to form branches of the emulgent or renal vein. It would appear then that the venous plexus surrounding the tubuh uriniferi and the Malpighian corpuscules form two distinct systems through both of which the blood pisses in its passage from the arteries to the veins the Fatter bein- the first through which it goes It has been surest d by Mr. Bowman that it is by the Malpighian cSu cules and tufts that the aqueous portion ot the ir ne is secreted, whilst it is by the tubidi uriniferi and Ihe venous plexuses immediately surrounding them, that the urea, lit^iic acid, and the more saline portions are '^Thf medullary or tubular part consists of the continua- tions of the tubuli uriniferi, .hich are -ranged m straigh lines and in conical bundles, '^^^-'^^ ternally, the apex towards the pelvis of the ^ dney. Ibese cones are about ten or twelve m number; then apex i. called the mammella or papilla, which is surrounded by a Membranous tube, called caly.. These form three or four large tubes, named infund iula, ^^h cli opeTi or dilate into the large fissure of the kidney, ca^^ed Jdlis. The pelvis of the kidney in respect to the a tery S vein, is behind and below. The emulgent vein is anterior, and the renal artery between them.THE KIDNEYS. 257 The kidneys are supplied with blood by the renal arteries, which divide into five or six branches before entering into their substance. These branches pass be- tween the medullary cones, and terminate in capillary rami- fications around the commencement of the urinary tubes. The right renal artery is the longest, having to pass behind the vena cava to its distribution. The renal veins, also called emulgent, empty their con- tents into the inferior vena cava; the left one is longest, having to cross over the aorta. It generally receives the left spermatic vein. The nerves are from the renal plexus of the sympathetic. The lytnphatics are numerous, and pass into the thoracic duct. The supra-renal capsules are triangular-shaped bodies, resting on the upper extremity of each kidney. They are convex above and concave below; yellowish on the" out- side, browner inside, and generally have a cavity cou- taming fluid. They are large in the foetus, and until the thu-d month of fcetal life exceed the kidney in size, but are diminished at birth, and gradually decrease in size with age. They have sometimes an artery direct from the aorta; their veins terminate in the vena cava on the right, and in the emulgent vein of the left side. The use of them is not known. The ureters, continuous tubes from the pelvis of the kidney, are about eighteen inches in length. They descend behind the peritoneum, over the psose muscles and large I lac vessels, enter the pelvis, and perforate the coats of the bladder, along which they run for about an inch and terminate in the bladder, about an inch from its cervix torming the posterior angles of the trigonum vesica. 1 hey are of about the size of a goose-quill, have two coats, the outer one fibrous, and the inner a thin hnins tTieWaddT' ''''' "^""^^^^^ P'^'-t is between the coats of In the male, they are crossed at their upper part bv tbp spermatic vessels ; lower down they croL' the' u ,Mica a t ry,or the cord which is left by it, the obturator ves e s and vas deferens. The latter hooks round the ureter to reach thevesicula seminalis of its correspondu g s de '158 ANATOMY. In the female, they are crossed by the spermatic vessels, the Fallopian tubes, and broad ligaments; they run along the sides of the vagina, and when in the coats of the bladder are in close relation with the neck of the uterus. THE ABDOMINAL AOETA AND ITS BRANCHES. The Abdominal Aorta extends from between the crura of the diaphragm at a point opposite the lowest dorsal vertebra to the lower part of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it bifurcates into the common iliacs. The branches given oflf from it are : Two phrenic. Coeliac axis. Superior mesenteric. Two capsular. Two renal. Two spermatic. Inferior mesenteric. Four or five lumbar on each side. Sacra media. The phrenic or diaphragmatic arteries are small, and pass on each side upwards, forwards, and outwards, giving off branches which anastomose with the internal mammary and epigastric, and the lower intercostal. They give branches to the crura of the diaphragm and renal capsules; the left gives off ramuli, which anastomose with the oesophageal vessels. The coeliac axis arises close below the phrenic, is a short trunk, surrounded by the solar plexus of nerves; it inclines a Uttle downwards, and divides into three branches, viz.: Coronaria ventriculi. Hepatica. Splenica. The coronaria ventriculi, or gastrica superior, the smallest branch both in the foetus and adult, mcUnes for- wards, upwards, and to the left towards the cardiac orifice of the stomach, where it gives off an oesophageal branch, which runs through the oesophageal opening oi the diaphragm, and ramifies upon the oesophagus, anas- tomosing with the oesophageal arteries; it then takes a course along the small curvature of the stomach, supply- ing branches to its anterior and posterior surfaces, and toABDOMINAL AORTA. 259 the small omentum, and at the pylorus anastomoses with the pyloric arteries. The splenic artery, rather tortuous, and largest of the three branches in the adult, runs horizontally towards the spleen, resting upon the upper edge of the pancreas, in which it is occasionally somewhat imbedded; in its course it gives off some small branches to the pancreas, named pancreaticce parvcB, and one larger, which, entering the pancreas, runs from left to right with the pancreatic duct, and is named pancreatica magna; near the spleen It gives off a large branch to the stomach {gastro-epiploica sinistra), which runs along the great curvature, and anas- tomoses with a similar vessel from the right; it then divides into five or six branches, which generally give off some ramuli to the great end of the stomach (vasa breviu) and then enter the spleen, to ramify in it. The hepatic artery, largest in the foetus, is next in size to the splenic in the adult. It inclines a little forwards upwards, and to the right, to reach the transverse fissure branches '° its. course gives off the following 1st. The pylonca superior, a small irregular branch which passes up behind the pylorus, and anastomoses with tlie coronaria ventriculi. 2d. The gastro-duodenalis, a very large branch, almost equal in size to the continued hepatic trunk : this first gives off a small branch {pylorica inferior), which is dis- tnbuted, as its name implies, but is irregular in its origin llie vessel then appears to divide into two trunks viz ' pancreatico-duodenalis and gastro-epiploica dextra. The pancreatico-duodenalis runs in the groove between the Head ot the pancreas and the inner margin of the duode- num, in Its course supplying branches to both, and termi- nates by anastomosing with a branch of tlie superior mesenteric artery. The gastro-epiploica dextra runs along the great curvature of the stomach from k\2Z left, supplying that viscus and the great omentum with branches, and anastomoses freelv Mith thpVnTH.! , • sinistra and tlie coronaria ventriculi S^^^^'^-^P^Plo^ca ^t^^:^^ ^ansverse fissure of which divide and subdiv^f in'u^J^i;^ t^l'e:!ANATOMY. 260 The riglit brancli gives off the cystic artery, which divides into two branches on reaching the gall-bladder; one of them runs superficially, the other deeply, between the gall-bladder and the liver. The superior mesenteric artery arises from the aorta, about half an inch below the cceliac axis ; it passes down- wards and forwards between the pancreas and duodenum, and then arrives at the mesentery, between the folds of which it descends obliquely towards the right iliac fossa, thus forming an arch, the convexity of which looks down- wards to the left, the concavity upwards to the right. From the convexity from fifteen to twenty branches are given off, named rami mesenterici; in the mesentery these anastomose togetlier and divide into branches, which branches also anastomose together, and subdivide again, thus forming a series of arches three or four in number, and arrive at the small intestines in a minute state of division. From the concavity there is first given off, just below the pancreas, a small branch, which anastomoses with the pancreatico-duodenahs; next the colica media, which passes forwards to the transverse colon, supplying it with branches; then the colica dextra, which passes trans- versely to the ascending colon ; and lowest down the iho- colica, which gives branches to the first portion of the colon, the caecum, and vermiform appendage, and anas- tomoses freely with the lower rami mesenterici. All the colic branches anastomose freely together. ^ The capsular arteries arise next, are small in size, ana uncertain in their origin; they pass obhquely to the renal capsules, which they supply, and anastomose with the diaphragmatic arteries. The renal arteries come off next from the sides ot the aorta, almost at a right angle, a Uttle below the superior mesenteric; they are of a large size, pass directly to the kidneys, but, before entering them, divide into five or six branches, part of which pass in front of, part posterior to, the pelvis of the kidney. The spermatic arteries proceed rather from the front ol the aorta; they are small, long, and somewhat tortuous vessels, most so in the female; they pass down on the psoEe muscles, in front of the ureter, and cross the ex- ternal iliac arterv, and at the internal abdominal ringABDOMINAL AORTA. 261 enter into the composition of the spermatic cord, alon- ^vhich they proceed to supply the different parts of the testicle. The distance of their origin from their desti nation in the adult is owing to the primary situation of the testicle, Avhich was just below the kidney, and imme- diately opposite to that portion of the aorta from which these arteries were given off. In the female, the spermatic arteries descend, pass between the layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, and are distributed to the ovaries taliopian tubes, and round ligaments, and anastomose with tne uterine arteries. . The in/erio?- mesenteric artery arises from the front of the aorta but a little inclined to the left side, and descends towards the sigmoid ilexure of the colon. It divides into and hcemorrhoidahs supenor. The colica sinistra supplie Ihe descending colon. The sigmoid branch supplies the ^r'' The superior ha^mTr hoida iZ7:n f^'''"" '''' ^'"^^"^ mesorectum, r.nnZ between the sacrum and the rectum, distribut n^ to it numerous branches as far as the anus and Xclf ana tomose free y with the other h«=morrhoidal artlries numhpr fteries, generally four, sometimes five, in number proceed from the side and back part of the aorta outwards through the tendinous fibres of^the psoas Zl "ZlZ"''' q-dratus muscle and abdomin^ paiS' They give off, like the intercostals, a posterior branch which passing backwards, gives ramuli to the vertebrt' some to enter the intervertebral foramina, and Others To hemuscles of theback: the anterior branches or co" Ind intel'""'^; ^"PP> '""^ P^«^«' quadraturiumbor im" aSes""''' "^^^ -eishbou- Tlie sacra media passes downwards from tb^ . where it bifurcates, runs along the central lii i ? . sacrum as far as the cocpw in if. "ne of the to the sacrum and ectifm and C?' '''''''^'^ hemorrhoidal and lateralr^ri arte"::'""^"""^ "'^'^ portal anVctvr^Thr^S IZr'''^' already been descrihed^iufl^/^-: The ^n/enor vena cava is primarily foLed by the union262 ANATOMY, of the two common iliac veins opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra: it ascends rather on the right side of the spme, and after grooving the under surface of the liver, perforates the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, and opens into the right auricle of the heart. In its course upwards it receives the foUowing branches,—part of the lumbar y^vus, right and left renal, right spermatic, both capsular some- times, phrenic or diaphragmatic, and vencB cavts hepatica. The sacra media sometimes opens into it. PELVIC VISCERA AND GENITAL OB.GANS. The organs or viscera contained within the pelvis are, in the male, the urinary bladder, the rectum, and part ot the genital apparatus ; in the female, the unnary bladder, rectum, and the uterus, with its appendages The bladder, or vesica urinaria, is situated in the ante- rior, inferior part of the pelvis, immediately belund the pubes when contracted, but, when distended, rises above the pubes, behind the recti muscles. It is pyramidal in shape ; its apex, or superior fundus, is turned ^P^^r J ^J^J forwai'ds, lies behind the recti muscles, and has attached toTt the urachus; the base, or inferior fundus is turned downwards and backwards, and rests on the inferior th^rd of The rectum, partially separated from it m the male by he prostate gland; vesiculee seminales, and vasa deferent a: E a riangular space exists, bounded on each side by the vas deferent and vesicula seminalis ; its apex is in front, Tthe prostate gland, and its base is for-d postenorl^^^ bv the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum: through this tri aLular space the bladder is sometimes tapped from the tectum' V^^body of the bladder lies between the supenor and'^erior fundus, it is rounded and ^^gMy compressed from before backwards : its anterior siirface eon esponds to the posterior surface of the pubis and ^ecti m"sc e^^^ distended; its posterior surface is covered by peritoneum. andTs in contac^t with the small intestines, -I'jeh separate i^from the rectum; its lateral surfaces are related to the inner kyer of the pelvic fascia, the levator am muscles and obturator vessels and nerves; along them ascend the ximbilical arteries, and descend the vasa deferentia and Tete s The cei^i. or neck of the bladder is its ante- rior inferior portion, where the urethra commences; itPELVIC VISCERA. 263 is surrounded by the prostate gland, and is conical in shape. A hne drawn through the centre or axis of the bladder, and extended at either end, would touch the extremity of the coccyx inferiorly, and pass out anteriorly ascending between the umbilicus and pubes. The bladder IS surrounded, except posteriorly, by a quantity of loose cellular tissue, which allows it, when distended, to ascend out of the pelvic cavity. The ligaments of the bladder are divided into the false and true The/a/se are folds of peritoneum, and are five in number, namely, two lateral, two posterior, and one superior. The lateral false ligaments are formed by the reflexions of the peritoneum, from the bladder to the side 01 the pelvis; each contains the vas deferens in the male Ihe posterior false ligaments are formed by the oeri- toneum passing from the bladder on the rectum ■ thev are concave upwards and forwards, and contain the ureter and degenerated umbilical artery on each side. The suj^erior false ligament is that portioii of the peritoneum arteries'."'''' '"'^ the remains of the umbilical The true ligaments are folds of the pelvic fascia and are four .n number, namely, two lateral Ld two rnt^r"' l^e pelvic fascia is a continuation of the iliac fascia which, descending inwards behind the iliac artery be the ilio-pectmeal line, and Tsldmes the name of pelvic fascia, from the ilio pectineal line the pelvic fascia descends into the pelvis, and meeting S the upper ma.-gin of the levator ani divides into Two layers: one of these, the external or obturato^layr de cends on the outer surface of the muscle, line The obturator mternus, and becomes attached to the head of the tuber ischu and rami of the ischium and nuhi, ^S. It IS continuous with the triangular iSamenf tS- or vesical layer of the pelvic fascia Snds «1 T inner surface of the levator ani and f. a from it on the lateral suit^ of' Uie'b X^ '""'^-'^ true lateral ligaments. The anterior , stretchfromtheinferiored^e of thf 1 l^g^«ient8 backwards, and are lo t o? tSe anteS': T''^''^r bladder. These ligaments lie mralfpl T /^^'^^^ on their upper su^rface ^^X;^^^::264 ANATOMY. through which an interval is found between them, m which are lorlged the dorsal veins of the penis: they are continuous with the lateral ligaments. By the true liga- ments the inferior fundus of the bladder is kept in situ, and prevented from rising out of the pelvis ; they separate the cavity of the pelvis from the perineum, and thus pre- vent the diseases of either of those parts from passing freely into the other. , p ^ ^ In structure, the bladder is composed of four coats: 1st, the serous or peritoneal; 2d, the muscular; 3d, the cellular ; and 4th, the raucous. The serous is but a partial coat it covers the superior fundus, as far forwards as the urachus, the whole of the posterior surface, the lateral surfaces as far as on a line with the posterior extremities of the vesicula; seminales, and the inferior fundus to within about three quarters of an inch of the base of the prostate gland The muscular fibres are of a reddish colour, and consist of three sets: 1st, the longitudinal; these extend from the anterior true ligaments upwards, on the anterior surface of the bladder, expanding towards the urachus, they thence descend along the posterior surface and inferior fundus to the base of the prostate gland in the male ; they are sometimes named the detrusor urinse muscle ; 2d, the oblique fibres; these are indistinct, and scattered on the lateral surfaces of the bladder; 3d, the circular fibres; these are best marked round the cervix, where they appear to form a sphincter muscle, beneath the mucous membrane. There are intervals between the muscular fibres of the bladder, through which the mucous membrane sometmies become^ protruded, so as to form sacculi or pouches, in which calculi are not unfrequently odged. The cellular coat of the bladder, if it deserves the name, is composed of submucous cellular tissue, containing numerous twisted fibres of elastic tissue, is strong, and of a whitish appearance. The mucous membrane is of a pinkish colour, {pale straw colour, according to Mr. Guthrie,) and presents irregular patches of vascularity, distinct from inflammation ; it is thrown into rugfe or folds, in the contracted state ot the organ, but these rugae arc only occasioned by the projection of some of the muscular fasciculi. immediately behind the orifice of the urethra there is a triangular pordoa of the bladder, where the mucous mem-PELVIC VISCERA. 265 brane is smooth and pale ; this is the trigone vesicate ; the apex of this is in front, and is formed by the nvula; the base is concave, turned backwards, and is formed by a line drawn from the opening of one ureter to the other ; the sides are formed by lines drawn from the ureters forwards and inwards to the uvula ; beneath these a few muscular fibres exist, named BelVs muscles, the use of which is said to be to preserve the obliquity of the orifices of the ureters. The trigone is the most sensitive part of the bladder. In Its contracted state, the bladder does not rise above the pubes, its inferior fundus is then almost the only part uncovered by peritoneum, which presents itself to the knife of the surgeon. The bladder in the female is larger than in the male, it is also wider, and rests posteriorly on the vagina and uterus, which, with the small intestines separate It from the rectum. In the child, the bladder is more cylindrical in shape, and reaches more into the cavitv ot the abdomen; its lowest part is its neck. The orifice of the urethra is heart-shaped ; from its base infenorly, the uvula, a small fold of mucous membrane projects. ' The urethra commences at the neck of the bladder and terminates at its external orifice, in the glans penis, 'it is divided into three portions, namely, the prostatic, membra- nous, and spongy. The prostatic portion is that which is surrounded by the prostate gland ; it lies within the pelvis 18 barrel-shaped, about one iuch and a quarter in leneth' and runs downwards and forwards. In its interior and on Its lower surface is the caput gallinaginis, ovverumontanum an elongated projection in front of which is a little depres- sion named smus pocularis, in the situation of which the common ejaculatory ducts open. On each side of the veru montanum is a depression {sinus prostaticus), on ^hich tL ducts of the prostate gland open. The membranous po't on of the urethra lies beneath the arch of the pubes from which It IS distant about three quarters of «n ^^17'! separated by the apex of the trl^guTar i^ t ^a^^^^^^^^^ sub-pubic hgamcnt; it is about three ouirtPri, nf ! , orifice, the most contracted portion of the canal 12266 ANATOMY. The spongy portion of the urethra commences at the bulb, and terminates at the orifice in the glans penis. The bulb is a dilatation of the urethra, chiefly of its under part, and is best marked in the adult; it lies in front of the arch of the pubes, is connected to the anus, from which it is distant about three quarters of an inch, by the ano-urethral ligament, and is surrounded by the accele- ratores urinse muscles. From the bulb forwards, the urethra is nearly uniform as to size, except about an inch behind the orifice, where it is slightly dilated, forming the fossa navicularis. The orifice is its most contracted portion. The spongy portion of the urethra is so called from being surrounded by a spongy erectile tissue, most abundaut on its inferior and lateral surfaces ; it is enclosed in a fibrous covering, derived from the triangular ligament, and is con- nected to the groove in the inferior surface of the body ot the penis The urethra is lined throughout by mucous membrane, and is generally smooth, with the exceptions already mentioned. Several small lacunae open on it m a direction forwards; the largest of these are met with on its upper surface; one larger than the rest hes near the fossa navicularis, and is named the lacuna magna, ifie orifices of the lacuna may entangle the point of a bougie, and thus be mistaken for stricture. THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION Consist of the testes and their appendages, the vesiculae seminales, prostate gland, Cowper's glands, and the penis. The testes \r^ inclosed in the scrotum. 'Ihe scrotum is composed of the skin, dartos, intercolumnar fascia, ere- master, fascia transversalis, and tunica vaginalis scroti. The skin of the scrotum is thin, of a brownish colour, and scattered over with hairs ; it is continuous on all sides with the surrounding integuments; through it, the veins of the scrotum may be easily seen. In diseases ot the testes these veins are sometimes opened: the operation is performed by compressing the scrotum at its upper part witn one hand, or a bandage, and then puncturing one or more ot the largest veins with the lancet. On the mesial line ot tae scrotum is the raphe, produced by a thickening of the integu- ments ; it is continuous behind with the raphe of the peri- neum, and is lost anteriorly in the under surface of the pems^ The dartos is a thin layer of pink contractile fibres, lyingMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 267 beneath the slciu; surrounding each testicle, and by uniting in the median line passing between the testicles, forming the septum scroti; by some this structure is supposed to consist of vessels only ; its use is to corrugate the scrotum and support the testicle. Its peculiar stimulus is cold. The dartos is by many considered to be a continuation of the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fascia is extended downwards upon the cord from the external abdominal ring, where it is most evident; it descends in an attenuated form, and spreads out upon the scrotum. The cremaster muscle, with its fibres connected together by cellular tissue, forms the cremasteric fascia ; it passes down from the lower border of the internal oblique and sometimes transversalis muscle, in the form of loops upon the cord, and as low as the bottom of the testicle and scrotum. The use of this structure is to support and elevate the testicle, and even to compress it slightly. In cases of old hernia the fibres are very much increased in size. The fascia transversalis, or internal infundibuliform fascia of some authors, passes down upon the spermatic cord and is expanded over the scrotum, between the cre- master and tunica vaginalis. This structure, together with some sub-peritoneal reticulated tissue, passing down on the cord, forms the fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac, which incloses each testis. It is separated from the one of the opposite side by the septum scroti, formed by a reflexion inwards of the dartos, and cellular tissue in the mesial line. The tunica vaginalis was, originally, a process of peritoneum, brought down by the testis, in its descent from the abdomen iiefore the seventh month, this gland is lodged on the psoas muscle, below the kidneys, it then begins to descend along tlie mgmnal canal, and finally passes into the scrotum where it is usually found at birth, or immediately aflr' Ihe process of the peritoneum which descends with the test.s becomes generally closed, at its upper part by adhesive inflammation, by which the lower portion s cu? off from the general peritoneal surface, and thus forms the ac of the tunica vaginalis. Should this obliteration not take p ace a congeiiital hernia may be formed hy It ^^^^ tunlea^aglnahs, or I268 ANATOMY. The tunica vaginalis surrounds the testis, except at its upper and back part; it is thence reflexed on the sides of the epididymis, forming a cul-de-sac on the outer side, between the testis and epididymis, from which it ascends, to a short distance, on the lateral and anterior surfaces of the cord ; from the cord it passes off and lines the inner surface of the scrotum. The layer of the tunica vaginahs, which covers the testis, is called the tu7iica vaginalis testis; that which lines the scrotum, the tunica vaginalis scroti This membrane is lubricated by a thin serous fluid, which allows of the free motion of the testis. It is often the seat of the disease hydrocele. THE TESTES. Each testis, or testicle, is oval in shape, with the long axis directed obliquely downwards, backwards, and in- wards ; its upper extremity, turned a Uttle outwards, is the larger ; its outer surface is convex, its inner flattened; its anterior margin, directed also downwards, is free ; its pos- terior or upper is covered by the epididymis, and is perforated by the vessels of the gland. The testis pos- sesses two coats, an outer, partial one, as just described from the tunica vaginalis; and an inner, fibrous one, named the tunica albuginea, which resembles the sclerotic coat of the eye is of a bluish-white colour, and is composed of fibres interlaced together in all directions; from its inner surface several processes pass backwards to the corpus highmoniarum, forming the mediastinum testis. The inner surface of the tunica albuginea is lined by numerous vessels forming a tunica vasculosa. The interior ot the testis is composed of a soft, reddish-gray, pulpy substance, formed of a number of small vessels, the tubuli semimferi loosely connected by cellular tissue: these are collected into bunches, separated by the processes which are sent oti from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea; from these bundles about fifteen or twenty tubes pass, directly back- wards, to the posterior part of the gland, and are called the tubuli recti; they enter the mediastinum testis, and then running between the two layers of the corpus high- moniarum form, with the vessels and nerves of the testis, the rete testis; from the upper part of this structure from ten to fifteen vessels, under the name of vasa efferentia, perforate the tunica albuginea, and enter the upper part ofTHE TESTES. 269 • the epididymis, where they become tortuous, and receive the uame of coni vasculosi, which unite ultimately into one tube, and form the vas deferens, which being convoluted descends, forming part of the globus major, and the whole of the globus minor, of the epididymis. The Epididymis applied to the upper and back part of the testis, and attached to it by the vessels and nerves of the testis, is composed of a head or globus major or upper extremity, a body or central portion, and a tail or globus minor, which forms its lowest extremity; from this the vas deferens escapes, and turning upwards ascends along the mner side of the epididymis, and enters the spermatic cord; a small tube like an appendix vermiformis, terminating in a cul-de-sac, is sometimes found attached to the vas deferens in the situation of the globus minor. This is known by the name vas aberrans. The testis is supplied with blood from the spermatic artery. This vessel arises from the front of the abdominal aorta, a little below the renal artery; from this, it de- scends outwards, in front of the psoas muscle and ureter, and behind the peritoneum, enters the internal abdominal ring, and is conducted by the spermatic cord to the upper and back part of the testis, where it perforates the gland, and divides there into numerous branches, which terminate in the vascular coat of the testicle. The spermatic veins ascend from the testis, in the spermatic cord, in the lower part of which they wind round the spermatic artery forming a plexus, the corpuspanipiniforme ; they afterwards become single, and terminate in the vena cava on the right side, but in the renal vein on the left. The spermatic plexus of nerves arises from the renal plexus, the splanchnic nerves, and some filaments from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic ; they soon join the spermatic vessels, and descend with them to the testis. The lumbar plexus also sends a few branches to the spermatic cord and scrotum The spermatic cord is thus formed of the veins, nerves absorbents and excretory duct of the testis, the va^ deferens, deferential artery, united by fine cellu ar tissue and inclosed in the tunica vaginalis of the cord, the dege: nerated portion of the peritoneum, and covered bv the cremastcr muscle. The vas deferent lies poste ■ orlyl L herf'll^ "^^'■"'^^ ^Wominal ig; i here hooks round the epigastric artery, passes inwal-ds.270 ANATOMY. • backwards, and downwards across the psoas muscle, and external iliac vessels, sinks into the pelvis, passing over the ureter and umbilical artery, applies itself to the false lateral ligament of the bladder, by which it is conducted to the inferior fundus of this organ, whence it runs forwards and inwards along the inner side of the vesicula seminalis, and, at the base of the prostate gland, terminates, by joining, at an acute angle, the duct of the corresponding vesicula, to form the ductus ejaculatorius communis, which, running forwards and inwards through the substance of the prostate gland, opens on the anterior part of the verumontanum. The vas deferens is composed of two coats, an external fibrous, and an internal mucous: the fibrous coat is of great strength, and gives to it the feel of whipcord; its cavity is exceedingly small. The vas deferens is flattened and sacculated, where it is connected to the inferior fundus of the bladder; its fibrous coat does not penetrate the prostate gland. The vesiculce seminales, two in number, are attached to the inferior fundus of the bladder, where they lie, one on each side, parallel and external to the vas deferens; they are about two inches in length, convoluted, oblong, and pyriform in shape: the larger extremity is obtuse, and turned backwards and outwards ; their smaller extremity, directed forwards and inwards, terminates in a duct, which forms, with the vas deferens, the ductus ejacidatorius communis, as just described. Each vesicula, when un- ravelled, is found to consist of a single convoluted tube, with numerous short lateral pouches communicating with it: it is composed of an external fibrous or condensed cellular coat, and an internal mucous membrane. Their interior presents a sacculated appearance, not unlike that of the large intestines, the sacculi being smaller but more distinct. Their use is to contain the-semen, and probably to secrete also a peculiar fluid, to assist in the process of generation. They form, with the vasa deferentia, the fateral boundaries of the triangular space, through which the bladder is sometimes punctured from the rectum. The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the bladder and prostatic portion of the urethra, which passes through it nearer its upper than its lower surface, one third of the gland only being above the canal. This gland is somewhat heart-shaped, the base turned backwards, is notched inTHE TESTES. 271 the centre, where the common ejaculatory ducts penetrate, separated by the middle lobe of the gland. The external surface of the prostate gland is surrounded by a plexus of veins, chiefly formed from tlie dorsal vein of the penis. It is usually described as consisting of two lateral lobes, and a small connecting inferior third lobe (Home's \ohe). This division is very arbitrary and indistinct. The under surface of the gland rests on the rectum. The prostate gland is covered by a dense fibrous capsule, which is de- rived from the triangular ligament, and gives to it its firm feel; but according to some authors, it is derived from the pelvic fascia; its internal structure is composed of a con- geries of mucous follicles, united by cellular tissue. Its use is to secrete a fiuid, supposed to be useful in generation ; this is conveyed into the urethra by means of numerous ducts, about ten on each side, which open on each side of the verumontanum. The coverings of the penis are the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia of the penis. The skin is thin and loose, and is continuous with the surrounding inteo'u- ment. Anteriorly it is prolonged, so as to form a fold, named the prepuce, at the free margin of which the skin is reflexed on itself as far as the corona glandis; it thence covers the glans penis, where it is continuous, at the ori- fice of the urethra, with the mucous membrane; beneath this opening it forms a fold, the frcenum preputii. The superficial fascia lies beneath the skin; it is loose and reticular, and is derived from a continuation of the su- perficial fascia of the abdomen, which descends from the pubes or the dorsum of the penis, forming ih^ false sus- pensory ligament; anteriorly it is continued into the pre- puce. The superficial fascia of the penis communicates freely with that of the perineum and abdominal parietes • hence efiiisions of serum, urine, &c., pass freely into its cells' Ihe fascia of the penis is a dense layer of cellular tissue, which invests the body of the penis, and is derived trom the true suspensonj ligament, a triangular fibrous structure, which descends from the margins of the arch of the pubis on the penis inclosing between the two laminae of which It consists, the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The body of the penis is composed of the two corpora cavernosa, and the corpus spongiosum urethrce. Each272 ANATOMY. corpus cavernosum commences by a narrow-pointed or sometimes obtuse extremity, which is attached to the inner surface of the tuber ischii, and rami of the ischium and pubes, whence, passing forwards and inwards, it ter- minates in the corpus cavernosum; this immediately unites with the corpus cavernosum from the opposite side ; the two, thus united, pass forwards, and terminate behind the glans penis in a blind obtuse extremity. The corpora cavernosa are covered externally by a dense fibrous, whitish, elastic membrane, of some thickness; this sends in, on the mesial line, an imperfect septum, the septum pectiniforme, which partially separates the two bodies, but at the same time allows of a communication between their cells, particularly anteriorly. Numerous processes are given off from this coat to the interior, uader the name of traheeulcB, to support and conduct the vessels. In the interior of this fibrous covering is an erectile spongy tissue, of a reddish colour, supposed by some to be com- posed of a congeries of arteries and veins; by others of cells, into which the blood is poured during the erection of the organ, whence it is afterwards removed by the veins. A pecuhar set of arteries, which terminate in dilated ex- tremities {helicine arteries), have been described by some. Between the corpora cavernosa, superiorly, a groove exists, in which the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis run ; a similar groove is seen on the under surface, in which is lodged the corpus spongiosum urethra. This body completes the penis, and has been described with the urethra; it is covered externally by a fibrous membrane, which is de- rived from the triangular ligament of the urethra, \yithm which is the spongy erectile tissue of the organ; this is of a dark colour, and is composed chiefly of veins ; it is con- tinued anteriorly in front of the extremity of the corpora cavernosa, where it expands and forms the glans penis: this body, conical in shape, is attached at its base to the anterior part of the corpora cavernosa by cellular tissue ; it presents here a circular indentation, the cervix, in front of which is a projecting ridge, the corona glandis; these parts contain a number of sebaceous glands, the glandule odo- rifercE, or Tijsoni. The cells of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum urethrse do not communicate. The penis is supplied with blood by branches of the internal pudic arteries, as follows : 1st, arteries dorsales penis, runTHE TliSTBS. 2/3 in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and terminate by forming a vascular circle round the corona glandis; 2d, arterice corporis cavernosi, perforate the crura penis,' and run forwards, on each side of and close to the septum pectiniforme; 3d, arterice bulbi vel corporis spongiosi urethra, penetrate the bulb, and supply the corpus spon- giosum urethrse. The veins of the penis pass backwards from the arteries, form a plexus round the neck of the bladder, and terminate in the internal ihac vein. The nerves of the penis are derived from the internal pudic, and accompany the arteries. The erection of the penis is caused by the contraction of the erectores penis muscles, which force the blood forwards into the organ, and prevent the return of the venous blood. Dr. Houston of Dublin, describes a pair of muscles, the " compressores venae dorsalia penis," which, arising on each side from the ramus of the pubis, cross the dorsal veins, and thus are enabled to compress them, and so contribute to the erection of the organ. In amputation of the penis the course of the arteries snould be borne in mmd, so as to enable the operator to secure the bleeding vessels with ease. In haemor- rhages from the penis, the division or tying of the dorsal arteries, or arteries of the bulb, sometimes becomes necessary. Cowper's glands are two small bodies of the size of an ordinary pea, which are lodged between the layers of the triangular ligament, in the space between the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb. They send off a small duct which, passing forwards on each side, opens into the urethra in front of the bulb. Their exact use is unknown ^ylZT^ T '""^^"^'^ gonorrhoea, and thus give rise to abscesses in perineo. THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION Are divided into the external &nd. internal. The external l>arts are the mons veneris, labia, clitoris, nym^ vala 6.0(1 pe?-ineu?n. ^ j"""^, vugmu, The mons veneris is the nroiection in fl.n <. c upper part of the pubes ; it^co^drsome't beneath the' integuments, and is covered with hair Tn the adX i t ^nons, vulva, or pudendum, aro torn., ofion used as applyh'^ 12§274 ANATOMY, to the external parts taken altogether. The labia are folds of the skin, lined internally with mucous membrane, and within containing some erectile and cellular tissue ; where they unite posteriorly, an internal transverse told of membrane is found, forming the fourchette Ihe c itons hes within the vulva, between the labia, immediately below the mons veneris; it is analogous to the penis m the male; it arises by two crura, one on each side, from the rami of the pubes, which unite to form one body, the clitoris, which, expanding in front, forms the glans chtoridis; this is partially covered with a fold of integument, called the vrevuce. The clitoris is erectile, like the penis, but does not possess any canal. The nymphcB, or labia minora descend from the prepuce downwards and outwards, and are gradually lost near the orifice of the vagina. Between the nymph4 having the clitoris above and the orifice of the vagina beneath, is the external opening of the meatus nrinarius, or urethra. This is about two inches and a half in length, and leads upwards and backwards, immediately above the vagina, into the bladder The vagina lies beneath the preceding, and above the rectum ; it leads upwards and backwards to the extent of about four inches along its upper surface, and six inches below, and ter- minates by surrounding the neck of the uterus bein^ prolonged farther on it posteriorly than anteriorly; it is lined internally by mucous membrane, which is uneven and thrown into folds, chiefly in the transverse direction. I?is Generally partially closed in the virgin state near its Ills geueiciiij- 1 J prP<;rpntic fold of mucous mem- anterior extremity by a crescenuc luiu u brane, concave upwards, named the hymen. The rup ure or gradual obliteration of this leaves m ^l^^d^ f ^^^^^ projections, the carunculcB myrhformes. /xt rnal to the muious membrane, the vagina is covered with a fibrous membrane, on the exterior of which is the JP^^^"* « ; formis, composed chiefly of veins, and supposed to be erectile. The vagina receives a partial covering of peri- toneum, near to its attachment to the uterus. . p The perineum in the female extends.from the inferior commissure to the os coccygis; it contains analogous Tscles to the male, viz., the sphincter am, leva or > roccVKfeus, transversus perinei, and erector chtoridis^ Sfvhincter vaginae muscle may be said to correspondFEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2/5 to the accelerator urinae; it surrounds the orifice of the vagina, attached in front and superiorly to the clitoris, behind to central point of the perineum. The internal organs of generation are the uterus and its appendages on each side, the ligamentum teres, Fallopian tube, and ovary. The uterus lies between the bladder and rectum; it is pyriform in shape, and is described as consisting of a fundus, body and cervix; the larger extremity, or fundus, IS free and rounded, and is turned upwards and forwards; from this the body contracts to its cervix which is sur- rounded by the vagina; it here presents a small transverse sht, the OS uteri or os tinea. The cavity of the uterus is small, and branches off at the superior and lateral parts into two lesser canals, which lead into the Fallopian tubes, all of which are lined by mucous membrane, covered by columnar and ciliated epithelium. In structure, the uterus IS composed of a peculiar muscular tissue non-striated, perforated by numerous vessels ; no distinct striped mus- cular fibres can be demonstrated in it. The uterus is covered by peritoneum, except where it projects into the vagma: this membrane forms on each side a large dupH- cature, the broad ligament of the uterus, which is reflexed trom It on the sides of the pelvis : this ligament allows of the distension of the uterus during pregnancy, and con- tains within Its folds the ligamentum teres. Fallopian tube and ligament of the ovary, and ovary, in order from before backwards on each side, together with the various vessels ana nerves. The ligamentum teres, or round ligament, the most anterior, stretches from the fundus of the uterus forwards and outwards, descends along the inguinal canal tl""TT'^^ ^P^^^'^'^S ^he labia." The roS igament, besides its peculiar fibres, is accompanied by some muscular fibres of the uterus, and arteriarbmnches from the spermatic artery, "rancnes The Fallopian tube is about three to four inches in length ; It runs from the side of the fundus uteri m,? . and upwards at first, and then a httit do^ard^^^^^^^ backwar.ls, and terminates in a loose fringeT^x remi v the corpus fnmbriatum, in the posterior . frflL p ^ IS a small opening, the morsns /«S b" Sfth la "tv of the uterus communicates with thai ol die pentoneum!ANATOMy. 276 and where this serous membrane is continuous with the lining mucous membrane of the genital organs. The canal of the Fallopian tube is small near the uterus, but increases a little as it approaches the morsus diaboli; through it the ovum passes into the uterus from the ovary. The ovary is attached on each side to the fundus of the uterus, bv a round fibrous impervious cord, the ligament of the ovary about two inches in length. The ovaria resemble the testes somewhat as to size and shape; they are more irregular than these, and often present cicatrices on their surface. The ovary is covered externally by peritoneum, beneath which is a strong, fibrous capsule, analogous to, but not so dense as the tunica albuginea: within these, united by firm cellular tissue, named stro7na, and vessels, is a number of vesicles, the Graafian vesicles, which contain the ova. These Graafian vesicles vary much in number, from fifteen to thirty, and sometimes more ; they vary also in size, those on the surface bemg the largest. . . Each Graafian vessel is now described as contamnig an albuminous liquid, and a round little body, which is the real ovum, surrounded by two membranes, the external one vascular, the internal one, named the ovi-capsule, presenting an internal granular surface. When a Graafian vesicle is ruptured, its contents find their way into the uterus by the Fallopian tube, and its place is supphed by a new deposit, which, from the colour assumed, is named corpus luteum. Each little real ovum is said to have its proper mem- brane, membrana pellucida, containing the yolk ; this yolk composed of granular matter, contains t]i& germinal vesicle, in which is found, by the aid of the microscope, an opaque spot, named macula germinitiva. . , ,, j , The female organs are chiefly supphed with blood by branches from the internal iliac, viz., the vaginal and uterine. The latter, as also the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The ovaries are supplied by the spermatic arteries, which send branches to the uterus also, and are much enlarged in pregnancy. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic ganglia, and from the sacral plexus.KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY.II IREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. COVERINGS OF THE HEAD. The coverings of the brain, which serve to protect this delicate organ from injury, may be considered under the head of the external soft parts; the osseous or bony case, constituting the cranium; and the internal soft parts, comprising the cerebral membranes. The external soft parts consist of the scalp, or peri- cranium, some loose reticular tissue, and the periosteum. The scalp is covered naturally with a quantity of hair varying much in different individuals and in different situations, which assists in lessening the effect of blows on the head ; and, from hair being a bad conductor of caloric It prevents those variations in temperature which if transmitted suddenly to the brain, might be productive of injurious consequences. The structure of the scalp is composed of skin externally, and the occipito-frontal muscle and tendon more deeply seated. The cuticle is delicate and closely connected to the cutis, so that it is seldom raised in the form of vesication. The cutis is remarkably dense, and contains a number of sebaceous follicles, which are supposed to secrete an unctuous substance for the use of the hair It is frequently the seat ot encysted tumours and other morbid growths Beneath the cutis lies a layer of condensed cellular substance, containing a quantity of closely granulated fat connecting the cutis to the occipito-fiontalS^ tendon m It, the bulbs of the hair are lodged, whth external^ re^t^df^o^U tVb ^""^^'^ ^"'^ wiA dS y' 3nn V 1 ' e-^Pansion of the occipito-frontalis tendon, a dense aponcurot c structure Tff i attachment to the Vour bellies of t "rmuscf tw^'o? cra.al aponeurosis. rdt-bet tt^—^;REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 280 fibres are closely connected with it, and thus the muscle causes it to produce the free motion of the scalp. Wounds of this aponeurosis, and more frequently those of a punctured nature, are often followed by violent inflammation, which spreads to the subjacent cellular tissue, and gives rise to symptoms re- sembling those of inflammation of the membranes of the brain. The aponeurosis should be, in such cases, at once freely divided by an incision through it; this will relieve the tension, give exit to any matter that may have been formed, and cause the subsi- dence of the disagreeable symptoms. The cranial aponeurosis covers only the superior and slightly the lateral regions of the cranium, reaching ante- riorly as far as the coronal suture, and posteriorly to a little above the superior semicircular ridge on the occipital bone. J The scalp, or pericranium, is connected to or separatea from the periosteum of the cranial bones by a quantity of loose reticular cellular tissue, which, from its great laxity and abundance, allows of the free motion of the soft parts on the convex surface of the cranium, and thus contributes much to the protection of the brain by eluding the violence offered. Into this loose cellular tissue eifusioifs frequently take place. In erysipelas of the-head, serum is poured into it, giving rise to the (Edematous condition of the scalp, a characteristic of this affection; and in the more advanced stages of the disease, matter forms in it Blood is also poured into it, forming the bloody tumour of the scalp in the adult, and those remarkable swellings in the in- fant, after a tedious difficult labour, and which often spread over the whole surface of the cranium. The ■periosteum covers the external surface of the cranial bones, to which it is closely adherent, particularly along the sutures, by means of fibrous processes entering here, and of the vessels which enter at these situations to supply the bone, and anastomose in the d.ploe with the vessels of the dura mater. This is called the external periosteum, to distinguish it from the internal periosteum or dura mater. In cases of severe injuries of the head, the external periosteum is frequently detached from the bone, or its vitahty destroyed, llus injury, if considerable in extent, will be followed by a necrosis, oi, more properlv speaking, death and separation of the outer table of the skull, 'known as exfoliation ; the remaining portion being supplied by the internal periosteum. More frequently, disease otCOVERINGS OP THE HEAD. 281 the external periosteum is produced by iiiflararaation, and that too of a syphilitic character, producing a swelling, distinguished by the name of node; here, if the inflammation be not subdued necrosis of the outer table exposes the patient to a spreading of the inflammation to the dura mater, and may thus cause the death of the patient. The internal periosteum exerts more influenee over the vitality of the cranial bones than the external, as when the former becomes detached, either by disease or accident a part or the whole substance of the bone perishes, the external periosteum becomes detached from its outer surface, and a tumour forms from the discharge that attends these processes, containing a sanious fluid mixed with air—this is known as Pott's puffv tumour of the scalp. ^ ' The scalp possesses a high degree of organisation. It IS supplied with blood by the frontal, temporal, posterior aural and occipital arteries. The frontal arteries are branches from the ophthalmic; they escape from the cavity of the orbit, through the superciliary notch or foramen, along with the frontal nerves, and are lost in the auterior part of the scalp. The temporal arteries, one on each side, are derived from the external carotid, while in the substance of the parotid gland. They ascend, crossing the zygoma near its root, and immediately in front of the !nlnr iT'"' tliey send one branch to S/ / T^T^ ""f' '"•^ ^fter a short course, divide into two branches, an anterior and a posterior- w th the frontal artery, the posterior running backwards to join the posterior aural and occipital arteries. The branches ot he temporal artery supply principally that part of the pS artr°-" *'"P°^^^ The anterior tern! poial artery is sometimes opened in cases where the raoid abstraction of blood becomes necessary, as irapoplexv inflammation of the brain, &c. apoplexy, '^he posterior aural artery is also a branch of the externnl caro id; It ascends behind the ear, and ternrinntf i dividing into numerous branches, which snpnlvThp f \ ear and the scalp in its immediate n gh S^^^^^ The occrpual artery is also derived from tSe external carotid; it enters the scalp hebinH external muscle, ascends along the posterior snrPn.' 'I'^r""'^''''^ .here it supplies the^calp^:-^^^^^^^ At first these arteries lie beneatli fho282 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. some of these tske a superficial course, perforate the cranial aponeurosis, and supply the cutis and bulbs of the hairs, whilst others pass to the periosteum, and are finally distri- buted to the bones, where, in the diploe, they anastomose with the branches of the meningeal arteries. Ail the terminal branches of these arteries anastomose freely with each other, and with the meningeal arteries, a tact ot much importance, as it serves to explain the tendency there is always to inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes, where the external parts have become diseased or have been iniured. The nerves of the scalp are the f>-ontal, which accom- pany the arteries of the same name, and are derived from the first division of the fifth; the ^em^JoraZ, which accom- pany the temporal artery in great numbers; they are derived from the fifth, the portio dura of the seventh and the cervical plexus ; and branches from the cervical plexus which accompany the occipital arteries. The osseous case, which incloses the bram, and is generally known under the name of cranium or skull is well adapted to protect the organ from injury, m con- sequence of the number of bones which enter into its formation, mutually supporting each other, and presenting ^\retttr.;/.^«.^. are the dura mater, the arac^ and the pia mater, and are described with the brain and ""TuZl'lZal surfaces of the cranium we meet with the muscles of the exteriial ear They are f ^e in numb^^^^^^^^^ small, and often imperfectly developed. Few individuals possess any control over these muscles. THE NECK. The neck, on each side, is bounded by the clavicle below, the lower jaw above, and a hue drawn from it to the m'astoid process, in front by the ^-^--^, "J^'^J^a" h teriorly by the edge of the trapezius. I^^^^^^^^^f y b'°','^^^ the integuments crossing the lateral surface of the necl. Ind coi?nected to them' by cellular t-sue winch om designate an external layer of a superficial fascia lies tne TlaLma myoides muscle. The fibres of t^e muscle vary C h n different individuals, being in general best markedTHE NECK. 283 in the female; they take a direction upwards and inwards, or from the shoulder towards the chin. _ On raising the platysma-myoides muscle, the superficial fascia, the external jugular vein, sotne branches of nerves, and the deep cervical fascia, are brought into view. The external jugular vein is formed, in the substance of the parotid gland, by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins; from this point it descends, nearly in the vertical direction, but inclining somewhat backwards, crosses the outer surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and at the posterior margin of this muscle, a short distance above the clavicle, it dips into the subclavian vein, in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck. At the upper part ot the neck, the external jugular vein is small in size, but as It descends it increases considerably, especially a little above its termination, from its receiving the blood from many superficial veins in this region. In general it com- municates by a transverse branch with the internal iugular vein. Not unfrequently a second external iugular vein is met with near the mesial hne of the neck : this is called the anteiior jugular vein; where it exists, it almost con- stantly communicates, by a branch which crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, with the external jugular vein, which is in such cases smaller than usual. When a cor- responding branch exists on the opposite side, the two veins unite in front of the trachea and immediately above the sternum, so as to form an arch, the convexity of which is directed downwards, a variety that will embarrass the sur- geon not a little, should he be called on to perform the operation of tracheotomy; they terminate in the venae inuommatae or internal jugular veins. The externS' jugular vein where it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle is accompanied by a nerve, the superficialis colli, a b and margin of'Tlir^ ^''T' "^"^^ ^^""'l PO«tS margin of the muscle, ascends along its outer 8urf«PP parallel to but about half an inch ab!ve the v 1 iSonVlM^f tfr™^ P-*^^ -^^emptil for the relief of whirb ll „ ? ' °'' diseases,284 KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMT. at tte early periods of life, as then the other subcu- taneous veins are but small, and are obscured from view by the adipose tissue, so abundant beneath the integuments in the young subject. It may be opened m the toUowmg manner Turn tlie head of the patient to the opposite side, so as to^^j'^f,,^^,^ vein project as much as possible, make pressure with the thumo or finger over the course of the vein, a little above the clavicle, so as to impede the flow of blood from it into the subclavian yem^ As soon as it appears sufficiently prominent make an incision through the integuments and platysma-myoides, "^^r therein, where it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, as here the vein is most superficial, being thrown outwards by the '^"^cle The incision should be about half an inch in length, to be directett upw^ds and backwards, or in the course of the sterno-mastoid muscle; as bv this means the fibres of the platysma will be cut Tross, Lnd the wound will be rendered more patulous by he^on traction of the divided muscular fibres. " t''?!,'""'m conmct in the direction of the fibres of this muscle, they will cont act and so close the wound, and prevent the f^/pe of the blood externallv, which thus may become extravasated into the ceUular tissue of the neck. Having by this incision exposed the vein it is now to be opened to a sufficient extent by a lancet when the blood will flow. As soon as the reqmred quantity has been aSracTed fhe pressure at the lower part of the vem is to be d, - continued, when the bleeding wi 1 in general f ase the ed es or the wound are then to be brought together by adhesive straps, and united by the first intention. i„„„.f- in Some prefer opening the vein in the A'-st/c'sion by a la^^^^^^ nerforminethis operation, the superficialis colhnerve will bemucn Srngereffi the incision be extended too much upwards, towards the mastoid process. , rpmoval of When operating at the root of the "^A, either in the remov^^^^^^ be necessary to tie the vein in order o arrest the h=E™orrhage in manv cases both ends of the vessel will >;eq" «,;'^^^^y3''"^e as lilood will escape from its lower as well as from its upper extremitv; here, air is most likely to enter. The nerves met with in this stage of dissection are the great auricular, alias auriculo.parotidean, occrptalis minoi, supraclavicular, subclavicular, and acromial • The cervical fascia is a dense layer of "F"/^^;";^^ structure, which covers the lateral surface ot the neck.THE NECK, 285 binding down the muscles, and forming sheaths for them m which the greater portion of them is inclosed. If we examine the cervical fascia, at the posterior part of the neck, immediately in front of the trapezius muscle, it is weak and cellular; from this it passes forwards, becoming more condensed; haying arrived at the posterior margin ot the sterno-mastoid muscle, it divides into two layers which inclose this muscle between them; one paiing on Its superficial the other on its deep ;urface,^ heTcf ?as k Xr^^'i""- '^^P '^^^'^ ^he 'cervTcd eX; J ^ '""P^'i^'t ^^y^' gradually lost towards either attachment of this muscle, passing inferiorlv over the clavicle, and superiorly on the mastoid pricessVthe deep layer, on the contrary, is attached inferioX t; the w ttThe 7?H ' 1 ^^'^ -"'inu u 7onf nf H great vessels at the mum. Ihe two layers of the cervical fascia reunite at the an erior margm of the sterno-mastoid musde pas forwards, and become continuous with the sheath of tS SnT'of rlVckT ^--dfthe'mest line or the neck, forming sheaths for the sterno-hvoid and thyroid muscles, and are continuous with those of the opposite side. I„ the centre of the neck in W nf Ih In^Srfhr '"'-TT' ''T ^^^^^ interiorly, the cervical fascia descends towards fbp ternum: as it approaches the bone, it become! Jemark which inclose this^gland between tl it a distinct capsule these Wv« ^« inserted into tCtie "s'rfl ofTe "7"'^' behind this it sinks deenlv infn I, ""'^^^^^^i286 EEGIONAL AND SUIIGICAL ANATOMY. surface of the parotid gland, to which it thus gives a partial investment, sending, at the same time, processes into the gland which separate the acini of the gland, and give to it its irregular granular appearance, iliis, me parotid layer of the cervical fascia, is attached superiorly to the zygoma, posteriorly to the meatus auditonus externus, and anteriorly is lost on the masseter muscle. Posteriorly to the parotid gland, the cervical fascia becomes indistinct, and is lost, as already described The cervical fascia is of use in forming a covering tor tne lateral surface of the neck, in binding down the cervical muscles and vessels for which it forms sheaths. In a practical point of view it is of mucli Si number of glands in the neck, this region is frequently the seat ofTbscesses^nd other tumours. When ^^^^.-^^^^^^f ™ ^^^^^^^^^ the fascia, they are resisted by it from breaking externally, they xriU ther;fore!if not given exit to by the knife of the surgeon, Sowbetath the fas'cia, andfinally openat som^^^^^^^^^ where the fascia is less strong, thus forming ^'^use. di tressmg to the patient, and difficult of cure. Our practice shc^uldbeto open these abscesses early, and thus prevent ^^ch mischief takmg Xce In cases of tumours of a more chronic character forming Keath the cervical fascia, whether enlargement of the glands or aneurismal swellings, the fascia will have a s'-Jar effect restraining them from commg to the surface and ^ ^"^^^^ °J aneurism mav render their pulsation somewhat indistinct, une remaSle effect is produced by the existence of tumours be- neath tbcervcal fascia, namely, difficulty of ^hing some- toes amounting to suffocation, caused by the tense condition of hTflscTa resisti'ng the free motion of the larynx and trachea and flnubtless also by the mechanical pressure of such tumours on Se impoSnt'parts, as well as by the sy^^patbetic a^^^ communicated to the laryngeal muscles. uractice is to remove the swelbngs by appropriate treatment, h thev be caused by a collection of pus, this should be given exit to tyl free diSon of the fascia; but if by an aneurismal tumour the arterv should be tied, or some other means adopted for re UevinJ the patient. Another reason for the ear^v opening o abscesses beneath the cervical fascia, '^derived from tl e c.rcum stance of their occasionally bursting into s"™^^ ^^l^'^ft'J'by of the neck, or into the larynx, thus <=*"^;"Sjj^^f ;',St f om suffocation or by the injurious consequences which result the purulent matter mixing with the circulation. When the cervical fascia is removed the l^^t^ral surface of the neck is completely exposed; this is of ^JT^ lateral shape, and is bounded above by the ramus of the287 THE NECK., jaw, and a Ime leading from it to the mastoid process • below by the clavicle; in front by the mesial line, extend- mg from the chin to the sternum; and behind by the anterior margin of the trapezius muscle. This quadri- lateral region is divided, by the sterno-mastoid muscle into two great triangles, named the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck. ^ The a?jteno?- triangle has its base above formed by the ramus of the jaw, and a line leading from it to the mastoid process; its apex is below, and is formed by the sterno- mastoid muscle approaching the mesial line of the neck • It. anterior boundary is formed by the mesial line; its' po^stenor by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid "^^x^ posterior triangle of the neck has its base below formed by the clavicle; its apex is turned upwards and IS truncated and formed by^he sterno-masS muscle approaching the trapezius; its posterior boundary t formed by the trapezius muscle ; its anterior by the p Jste nor edge of the sterno-mastoid. ' ^ Each of those triangles is subdivided, by the omo-hvoid muscle, into two lesser triangles; namely, the posterior The posterior superior triangle is the largest but thp omo hZr^i ^ ^^'^ ^^<^^^Sn of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles; its base at \^^ anterior edge of the trapezius; its sup rior boundary s beuTnf f.*^' sterno-mastoid; its infeir by the posterio omo-hyoid; its Ltertr by (he ' ^'"^ triangle is exceedingly s^airwl en :,f ^'^^^^id. This disturbed from their natural 1 • ^""''''^^^'^^ are not beUy of the omoTyo d ^tifds T /^^ P°^*^"°^ clavicle. In it we hive th suSv ! ' -.e, the -nsversalistrt;Ta^L;^tjS288 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. arteries, the subclavian and external jugular veins, some branches of the cervical plexus, the brachial plexus, some glands, and cellular tissue. . The anterior inferior triangle has its apex at the juiic- ture of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles; its base is formed by the mesial hne of the neck ; its posterior boundary is the sterno-mastoid; its superior, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained the carotid artery in its first or deep stage, the internal jugular vein, and par vagum, and the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland; and, more deeply seated, the recurrent laryngeal nerve,'and inferior thyroid artery. , t -j j • ^ The anterior superior triangle may be subdivided into two triangular spaces by the os hyoides ; that below the bone being named the infra-hyoid space, that above it the supra-hyoid or digastric space. The Mi/r«-%oi^Z space has its apex at the decussation of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles ; its base is turned upwards, and is formed by the cornu of the os hyoides and digastric muscle; its anterior boundary is formed by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid; its posterior by the sterno- mastoid. It contains the carotid artery in its superficial or second stage, the internal jugular vem, the pneumo- eastric, and descendens noni nerves, the superior thyroid artery, and superior laryngeal nerve. The digastric or supra- hvoid space will be described hereafter. Let us now turn our attention to the muscles exposed in this stage of the dissection ; they are the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid The sterno-mastoid muscle crosses the neck in tne diagonal direction, from the sternum and clavicle to the mastoid process. Near the sternum a triangular space exists between the two origins of the ^"^^^ ^' ^hroug^ which the subclavian vein and artery may be wounded The anterior margin of this muscle serves as our guide in cutting down on the common carotid artery. .I"feriorly^ this vessel is overlapped by the sternal portion of the. muscle ; but, as the muscle ascends, it retreats backwarda from the artery, and thus leaves it covered only b> me skin, platysnjand cervical fascia, The spu- -ce^s ly nerve perforates the sterno-mastoid muscle a little aDONC its centre, giving to it a few filaments.THE NECK. 289 The omo-hyoid muscle crosses the neck also, but in a contrary direction ; it ascends from behind forwards, from the scapula to the os hyoides; it therefore decussates the sterno-raastoid, and thus forms the several triangles of the neck; it is a digastric muscle, its tendon lying behind the sterno-mastoid. The omo-hyoid is of much use in guiding us in our several operations on the common carotid artery, and on the subclavian in its third stage It crosses the scaleni muscles, the brachial plexus, the phrenic and sympathetic nerves, and the sheath of the common carotid artery. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are situated in front of the trachea, larynx, and thyroid body. As these muscles ascend from the sternum to their insertions, they take a somewhat contrary course, that is, the sterno- tiyoid muscles converge, whilst the others diverge Be- tween the muscles of either side, on the mesial line, a cellular hne exists, in which our incisions are made in the operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy. Inferiorlv these muscles, and particularly the sterno-thyroid, from their great breadth, overlap the carotid artery; this vessel however, passes backwards from beneath them as it ascends. Connected with the origins of these muscles the terminating filaments of the descendens noni nerve may be seen. On raising these muscles, the carotid sheath, the larynx, trachea, and thyroid body are exposed- and, by a little further dissection, the cervicJl and ffachiai plexuses, and the subclavian vessels will be exposed ■ the cervical plexus being situated at the upper and posterior ^velbfclaS;.^^^^ "'^^^ "^^^ ^ ^-'^^ The thyroid body ov gland is a large, soft, reddish mass which lies in front of the trachea, and alo^g the sidTof the larynx. It is crescentic in shape, the concavity be n. & ^.r^i^^ ^'.'h^^ lobes, a mi« turned centra , and two lateral. The mi^d o Tenlairrf al ' named the isthmus, connects the two latera InC ' ! " small and flat, and lies on the second thTrd and ^ V^ mngs of the trachea, and to which it,« nfni, tissue. The lateral lobes ^ret^^C^^^^^ each side of the larynx and trachea • ' ^ °"290 EEGIOKAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. convex and rounded below, they extend to within a short distance of the sternum. Their cutaneous surface, convex, is covered by the sterno-hyoid, thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; the posterior surface, flattened and concave, rests on the trachea in the mesial line, and on either side overlaps the carotid artery, inferior thyroid vessels, the recurrent nerve, the crico-thyroid muscle, and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The left overlaps also the oesophagus. The thyroid gland is best marked in the female, and in the young subject, but varies much as to size in different individuals. It is covered externally by a thin layer of cellular substance, within which it is composed of a number of minute cells, which secrete a yellowish, serous, and somewhat viscid fluid, the use of which is wholly unknown as no excretory duct has as yet been discovered from the gland. The thyroid body is largely supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries on each side. The former are derived from the external carotid, the latter from the thyroid axis; these vessels anastomose freely in the substance of the gland, and terminate in veins which return the superfluous blood. These descend principally from the inferior margin of the gland, in front of the trachea, where they form a plexus, the thyroid 'plexus, which empties its blood into the left vena mno- minata. Its nerves are derived from the sympathetic and pneumo-gastric. In the foetus the thyroid gland is often connected inferiorly with the thymus gland. The thyroid gland is of much importance in a practical point of view. It is subject to a species of chronic enlargement, termed bron- chocele, or goitre, which appears to be a dilatation of the cells, of -which the gland is, in its normal state, composed. This enlarge- ment, in general, aflfects aU its lobes, but maybe confined to one. In many cases it increases to such an extent as to form a large pendulous tumour, overlapping the sternum. This disease is not dangerous. It is best treated with the various preparations of iodine. Sir E. Home recommeuded the tying of the thjToid arteries for its removal, but this operation has now been aban- doned in consequence of the danger attending it, and still more from the verv pai-tial success which followed its adoption. The removal of the tumour by the knife has also been recommended. This operation, although perfectly practicable, is rarely called for, as tbe swelling is seldom injurious to life or health; indeed, in some countries, it is much admired in females. Where theTHE NECK. 291 patient is anxious for its removal, the passing of setons throueh It would most probably cause the obliteration of the cells and thus at least diminish considerably the swelling, if not restore it to Its original size. In some cases the middle lobe of the thyroid gland has been found to pass between the trachea and oesophacus or even behind this tube. The effects of enlargement of it under such circumstances would be serious indeed. From the relation of the thyroid body to the carotid artery, pulsation may be com- municated to It when enlarged, and thus the disease be mistaken for aneurism of the vessels. Inflammation and its consequences suppuration, &c., seldom affect the thyroid gland. It is liable Sf lrIch.l'°'"°°';S'^''''^'^- performing the operations of tracheotomy and laiyngotomy, this gland, as we 1 as its numerous vessels should be avoided, as they pour out a large quantity of blood, and embarrass the operator considerably. It ^X'^Srz^'-'^'- The carotid sheath is a layer of condensed cellular m mbrane, which incloses within it the carotid artery the interna jugu ar vein, and the pneumo-gastric nerve It is partly denved from the cervical fascia, to which t?s"closely attached, and partly from the fibrous sheath, which the large vessels at the root of the neck receiv; fr^m t e fibrous layer of the pericardium. Superiorly it Ts in behind and between these vessels lies the parvaZm The' sheath IS covered in the lower part of the nedc bv the in egument platysma, the cervical fascia ?1 e stJrno mastoid the sterno-hyoid, and thyroid muscles • above" ^^Jt^^cirrSe-i^^ST^r^^^^" nervous arch, the conveX of li I ^"'"'i' " P^^"« «r wards; from this seveS filamLT, l i'^'*''^'^ hyoid, thyroid, and"! iyo'rltir' T ' H side of the sheath, lies the ZZ. I \ o"*^'- inner side, the trkchl nd aiTnT^^^^^^^ *° pharynx, the thyroid gland L ' *^''.^^°P%»s and ^ gland, the superior and inferiorREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 292 thyroid arteries, and the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves. Behind, it rests on the spinal column, with the intervention of the sympathetic nerve, the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles; and inferiorly, the inferior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES Arise, the right from the arteria innominata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation; the left, from the arch of the aorta, between the origins of the arteria innominata and the left subclavian. From these different origins, these vessels ascend backwards and outwards into the neck, contained, with the par vagum and internal jugular vein, in the carotid sheath; and, having arrived opposite the OS hyoides or the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, each divides into the external and internal carotid arteries. In the first part of their course these vessels differ in several particulars. From its peculiar origin, the left carotid lies inferiorly within the thorax, and is here covered by the sternum, the left vena innominata, and the remains of the thymus gland, and rests on the trachea, a little above the bifurcation of this tube; and, escaping to the left side of the trachea, it lies on the thoracic duct and oesophagus, whence, ascending into the neck,, it resembles the right carotid artery. The left carotid artery is longer than the right, lies deeper in the root of the neck, and is in general somewhat smaller. The course of the common carotid artery in the neck is divided by the omo-hyoid muscle into two stages, viz., an inferior or deep; a superior or superficial. In the interior or deep stage, the artery lies in the anterior inferior triangle of the neck, covered by the skin, platysma, tascia, steruo- mastoid, sterno-hyoid,and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the carotid sheath; t6 its inner side lie the trachea and left recurrent nerve; on the left side, the oesophagus; to its outer side, the par vagum and internal jugular vein ; and behind it, the posterior part of the sheath, behind which are the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent and sympa- thetic nerves, the longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus maior muscles. There is some difference in the relation of the internal jugular vein to the common cai-otid artery, t this stage, on Uie right and left sides. On the r.ghtCOMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. 293 side the vein, as it descends to join the subclavian, diverges from the artery so as to leave an interval between them, and form, -with the subclavian artery inferiorly, a vascular triangle, in which the par vagum and cardiac filaments of the sympathetic nerve descend to cross the subclavian artery, and in which, more deeply seated, the vertebral ai'tery ascends. On the left side, on the contrary, the vein, as it descends to join the left subclavian, approaches the left carotid artery, so as to overlap it a little. This difierence in the relation of the internal jugular vein adds much to the difficulty of securing the carotid and sub- clavian arteries on the left side. In the superior or superficial stage, the common carotid artery lies in the anterior superior triangle of the neck; it is here covered only by the skin, platysma, and cervical fascia and sheath, on the, outer surface of which is the descendens noni nerve; but, occasionally, this nerve is met with within, or even behind, the sheath. To the inner side of the artery, in this stage, are the larynx and pharynx, superior thyroid artery, and superior laryngeal nerve. To its outer side are the par vagum and internal jugular vein; behind it, the sympathetic nerve, and the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles. In . the centre of the neck the carotid artery is slightly over- lapped by the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. Should this become enlarged, it is possible that it may be mistaken for an aneurism of the vessel. This is not the only tumour which may lead to error, numerous lymphatic glands accompanying the artery in the neck, particularly on its outer side; these are extremely liable to chronic enlarge- ment, and may, under such circumstances, should they approach the artery, be mistaken for an aneurism. As the common carotid arteries are supported posteriorly bv the tor a short time against this structure during life, in cases of haemorrhage, from the vessel itself or from any of i s principal branches, until more effectual means shall have Len adop ed fo restraining the hemorrhage. It has been also suggested to com fern'theTurtit' of\7 1 'SZ' so a^o" lessen the quantity of blood sent to the brain; the practice is • Lme E tm„:^""^,'''•''"^'^'"S *° avoid trth Z'^oaTebBSm fh^'LS"'""^'^' ^""^ ^•^"^ -'-'^'"^294 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The carotid artery may be tied in its first or deep stage, for the cure of aueurism affecting it in its superficial stage, also when wounded, and for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innominata, in the distal operation. The operation is performed in the following manner: Place the patient in the recumbent posture, then, turning the head towards the opposite side, and but moderately extending the neck, make an incision, about three inches in length, through the skin and platysma, along the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing inferiorly close to the sternum. Cut through the fascia, avoiding any veins that may be present. The inner edge of the sterno-mastoid is exposed, as also the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, with a few branches of the descendens noni nerve; draw the mastoid muscle to the outer side, the others to the inner or tracheal side, or, if necessary, cut across some of the fibres, on a director passed beneath them. The sterno-thyroid, from its greater breadth, overlaps the artery, and will most likely require division. The muscles having been drawn out of the way, or divided if necessary, the sheath is brought into view, having the omo-hyoid muscle crossing it at the upper part of this region. Open into the sheath by pinching it up between the fingers, making a small incision into it with the knife held in the horizontal direction: into this opening introduce a director, and on this divide the sheath to the required extent. The carotid artery will be now exposed, with the vein and nerve; detach the artery gently from its surrounding connections, with the end of a probe or director, and pass the aneurism needle under it from without inwards; in doing so, avoid the par vagum and vein to the outer side, the sympathetic nerve, inferior thyroid artery posteriorly, and the recurrent nerve on the inner side. If the left carotid be the subject of the operation, the thoracic duct and oesophagus must also be avoided. The internal jugular vein has been found to embarrass the surgeon much, from its alternately flapping over and receding from the artery, a motion communicated to it by the regurgitation from the right auricle, as well as from the act of respiration, all the large veins at the root of the neck being emptied when inspiration takes place, and being on the contrary distended during the act of expiration. The extent of this embarrassment has been variously stated by different operators, some asserting that it has been considerable, whilst others assert that the vein gave them little or no trouble. In fact, it must vary according to the situation where the artery is tied; thus, it is likely to give but Uttle trouble on the right side, at the lower part of the neck, whilst, in almost every other situation, it cannot fail to be trouble- some. To remove the cause of annoyance, the vein should be compressed both above and below. The ligature having been passed round the artery, without including any of the surrounding i)arts, and properly secured, one end may be cut short, and the other allowed to hang out of the wound,295. COMMON CAKOTID ARTERIES. this being closed by adhesive plaster. After the operation, the patient's head and neck should be supported on a pillow, so as to relax the muscles as much as possible. The carotid artery is tied in the superior or superficial stage, when wounded here, as in cases of attempted suicide, or for the cure of aneurism of the internal or external carotid arteries, or any of their principal branches, or for aneurism of the first stage, accord- ing to the distal operation. It has been also recommended to be tied in cases of hsemorrhage from the external carotid, or any of the principal branches when wounded; if possible, the wounded artery itself should be tied, and if this cannot be accomplished, the trunk nearest to the wounded branch should be secured. When hasmorrhage takes place from deep ulcers of the tongue, it has been found necessaiy to tie the external, or common carotid; the former should, for obvious reasons, be preferred. Some have advocated tying the common carotid artery, for the cure of large aneurisms by anastomosis affecting one or more of the principal branches of the external carotid. Experience, however, has proved that such treatment is ineffectual, owing to the free anas- tomosis of these branches, which carry on the disease, although the main artery may have been secured. The operation of tying the common carotid, in its superior or supei-ficial stage, is performed as follows: • Place the patient in the reciunbent posture, turning the head to the opposite side, and slightly extending the neck; make an incisioit about three inches in length, along and a little internal to the antenor margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and extending from a httle beneath the angle of the jaw to the side of the cricoid cartilage. In this the integuments and platysma are divided and the cervical fascia exposed; divide this cautiously on a director, taking care to avoid the veins, and particularly the labial or facial, which crosses this part of the neck to open into the jugular vein, and also the descendens noni nerve, which lies here in general on the anterior surface of the sheath. Open into the sheath as directed in the preceding operation, and proceed to pass the aneurism needle round the artery from without inwards avoiding the par vagum and internal jugular vein externallv the sympathetic nerve posteriorly, and the superior laryueeal nVrv<. and superior thyroid artery on the inner side • "cr\e The common carotid artery should always be secured, if possible at some distance from its bifurcation, as the origins of the external and internal carotids are likely to prevent the formafion of the coagiUum in the interior of the vessel when secured near to t£ The common carotid artery bifurcates opposite the os hyoides. or superior edge of the thyroid cartilage, into THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES These vessels are nearly equal in size in the adult, but296 EEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. in the foetus, the internal carotid is larger, as the brain ■which it supplies, is well developed; whilst the face, which is supplied by the branches of the external carotid, is but little advanced in its formation. These vessels are named from the parts to which they are distributed, the internal supplying the brain, the external the face and external regions of the cranium, but not from their relative position. Let us consider, first— The external carotid artery. This vessel lies, at its origin, anterior and internal to the internal carotid ; it first passes upwards and inwards towards the submaxillary gland, then passes backwards behind the angle of the jaw, and finally enters the substance of the parotid gland between the ramus of the jaw and the external meatus auditorius, where it terminates, about midway, between the angle of the jaw and the zygoma, but somewhat nearer the latter, by dividing into the internal maxillary and temporal arteries. In its course, the external carotid is somewhat curved, the convexity directed inwards, towards the pharynx and tonsil, and is, comparatively speaking, superficial, except whilst lodged in the parotid gland. The external carotid artery, a little after its origin, is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It may be usefully divided into three stages, the first being from its origin to where it is crossed by the digas- tric muscle; the second, from this point to its entrance into the parotid gland; the third, whilst it is lodged in the gland. In the first and second stages, the external carotid is superficial, being covered only by the integuments, pla- tysma, and cervical fascia; a little below the digastric muscle it is crossed by the lingual nerve, which here liooks round the occipital artery. At its commencement, it rests on the superior laryngeal nerve, the pharyngeal plexus, and some cellular tissue, which connects it to the internal carotid and side of the pharynx; above this, and near the angle of the jaw, it is supported by the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, and a portion of the parotid gland, all of which parts separate it from the internal carotid. Immediately after the origin of the external carotid, the internal jugular vein leaves it to accompany the internal carotid; aboveES.TEKNAL AND INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES. 297 this point the external carotid artery is accompanied by two veins, one on each side. In its third stage, the external carotid artery lies deep in the substance of the parotid gland, through which it ascends obliquely outwards as it approaches the zygoma. It is here crossed by the portio dura nerve', which, escaping from the stylo-mastoid foramen, passes through the gland from behind forwards and outwards, separated from the artery by a portion of the gland, and by the external jugular vein. The nerve here forms a plexus, the pes anserinus, from which branches pass off to supply the side- of the temple, face, and neck. The external carotid may be tied without difficulty, either in its first or second stages, by making an incision, about two and a half or three inches in length, through the skin, platysma, and fascia, extending from beneath the lobe of the ear, downwards and inwards, towards the cornu of the os hyoides ; by this the digastric muscle will be exposed: this guides us at once to the artery which may be brought into view, either above or below this muscle, with very little dissection. This proceeding mav be requu-ed in performing operations about the ramus of the law where some of the branches of the external carotid are, or are likely to be, wounded; as also in cases of hajmorrhage from those . vessels, or from deep ulceration or sloughing about the iaw or ' mouth: we need hardly remark, that the artery should be tied between the heart and the origin of the branch from which the hiemorrhage proceeds. The external carotid artery is sometimes wounded in attempts at suicide: here we should dilate the wound, if necessary, and tie both ends of the bleeding vessel In Its third stage, the external carotid is nearly precluded from interference, except the extirpation of the parotid gland Before proceeding to this operation, it is judicious to secure the trunk of the common carotid. wuuk. The branches of the external carotid artery are ten in number, and are divided into the anterior, posterior ai d S. ;;?.;"' ^"-"^^^^"^S; the ««^mo/branche; a'e Superior thyroid, Lingual, Labial, The posterior are also three, the Occipital, Posterior auris. Muscular. 1S§298 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The ascending branch is Pharyngea ascendem. The terminal branches are three, the Tranverse facial, Temporal, Internal maxillary. Six of these arise from the first stage of the artery, namely, the superior thyroid, Ungual, labial, occipital, muscular, and pharyngea ascendens, one only in its second stage, the posterior auris, and the remaining three in its last or third stage. Arteria thyroidea superior is, in general, the first branch of the external carotid artei-y, from the internal surface of which it arises, opposite or a little below the cornu of the os hyoides. It first ascends inwards, then curves downwards and forwards, and descends to the inner side of the common carotid artery, accompanied for a short space by the superior laryngeal nerve, which lies posterior to it, towards the thyroid gland, in which it is chiefly lost. The principal branches given off in this course are the following: Ramus hyoideus, a small branch which runs forwards, just beneath the OS hyoides, supplying the muscles and soft parts in that region. The ramus laryngeus runs downwards and inwards, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, and enters the larynx, either through an opening in the alaof the thyroid cartilage, or through the thyro-hyoid ligament, to supply its muscles and mucous membrane. Ramus crico-thyroideus. This branch is more important from its course than from its size; it sometimes arises from the preced- ing; it runs inwards, and anastomoses with the one of the opposite side, over the crico-thyroid ligament. This branch is much endangered in performing the operation of larj-ngotoray. Ramus thyroideus. This is the largest branch, and apparently the continuation of the trunk of the superior thyroid artery. It descends beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle to the thyroid gland, where it is lost, anastomosing with its fellow, and the inferior thyroid artery. From the relations which the s\iperior thyroid artery and its branches bear to the larynx, they are frequently divided in attempts at suicide. Should such be the case, the external surface should be exposed, and the bleeding vessels at once be secured with the ligature. Although a fatal hemorrhage is not lilccly to proceed from any of these branches, yet the bleed- ing, if allowed to continue, is a source of constant annoyance toDIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 299 the patient, from the blood making its way into the interior of the larynx. Sir E. Home recommended the tying of the thyroid arteries for the cure of bronchocele. This operation is not now performed. The labial and lingual arteries are met with in the digastric or supra-hyoid region, and will be there described. THE DIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. This is a triangular space, situated at the upper and lateral part of the neck, between the digastric muscle below, the inferior maxilla above, and contains the sub- maxillary and sublingual glands, the external and internal carotid, lingual and facial arteries, the lingual and gusta- tory nerves, and several muscles. Its apex, inferiorly, is formed by the tendon of the digastric muscle, where it is attached to the cornu of the os hyoides; its base, above, IS formed by the body of the inferior maxilla, and a line drawn from it backwards to the mastoid process; it is bounded, in front by the anterior belly of the digastric behmd by the posterior belly of this muscle. Some anatomists have described this space as being divided into two, an anterior and a posterior, by the stylo-maxillary / /j,p'»ent, the latter containing the parotid gland, &c. This we consider not to be in strict accordance with the anatomy of the parts, as the parotid gland lies almost wholly above the base of the digastric space; we shall therefore consider it as a distinct space, under the name or the parotid region. On raising the integument, platysma, and cervical fascia which form the superficial coverings of the digastric space' the submaxillary gland is brought into view. This is the second in size of the salivary glands, the parotid beino- the largest, and the sublingual the smallest. It lies imbedded in the digastric space; bounded above by the inferior maxilla; below by the tendon of the digastric, which iJ occasionally overlaps a little; behind by'^the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle and the stylo-maxillarv ligament, the first of which separates it from the parotid gland ; and in front by the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. The submaxillary gland rests against the^my^! hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles, and is covered by theS platysma, superficial and deep, and cervical fascia, wS300 REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY, last forms for it a distinct capsule, the outer layer of which is the stronger. A small process pf this gland winds round the posterior edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle, accompanies its excretory duct, and lies with it between the muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The submaxillary gland, like the other salivary glands, is of a pale fawn colour ; it is divided into distinct portions by dehcate prolongations of cellular tissue, and is crossed (sometimes perforated) by the facial artery, and sometimes the vein, which pass through a deep groove near its pos- terior extremity. The structure of this gland consists of a number of acini, united by cellular tissue, from each of which a small primary tube proceeds; and these, uniting together, form the ex- cretory duct. This, the Whartonian duct, leaves the gland at its outer end, winding above the mylo-hyoid muscle, and runs forwards and inwards, opens on the side of the frsenum linguee, where its orifice may be distinguished by a small papiUa beneath the tongue. This duct receives also a few ducts from the sublingual gland. Its structure is composed of an external fibrous coat, and an internal lining mucous membrane. The fibrous coat is thin and delicate, so that the cavity of the duct is larger in propor- tion than that of Steno's duct. A second or accessory duct sometimes exists. The submaxillary gland is supplied with blood irom the glandular branches of the labial artery. Its nerves axe chiefly derived from the chorda tympani. The submaxillary gland is sometimes, but not frequently, attacked with inflammation and its consequences. It is liable, in chUdren, to a specific inflammation, known by the name of Mumps. Its duct is sometimes obstructed by a calculus, or other cause, when it swells and forms a large tumour named T^anitte, which projects into the cavity of the mouth, beneath the side of the tongue, interfering with the motions of this organ, and wth the acts of respiration and deglutition. The treatment of this disease is simple; it consists in making an opening into the tumour from the mouth, and keeping the aperture patulous by means of a tent or style, as recommended by Dupuytren, or by touching the cavity with nitrate of silver, caustic potash, or the actual cautery. A simple puncture will sometimes be sufficient for its removal. The submaxillary gland is also sometimes the seat of mabgnant disease; if so, its extirpation should be had recourse to, if notDIGASTIC OR STJPRA-HYOID REGION. 301 contra-indicated. Some have denied that it can be accomplished. We see nothing to prevent it. The submaxillary gland is crossed or traversed by The Arteria labialis, facialis, vel maxillaris externa This vessel arises from the external carotid artery, imme- diately after, or along with, the lingual artery. From its origin It ascends inwards, and then enters the'inferior edge of the submaxillary gland, and, nearer its posterior ex- tremity, runs through the gland in a tortuous manner, and escapes from its superior edge; it now descends, and turning again upwards and outwards, round the side of the jaw, close to the anterior edge of the masseter muscle: it then runs upwards and inwards to the angle of the mouth whence it ascends almost vertically along the side of the nose to the inner canthus of the eye, where it terminates. Ihe labial artery, at its origin, is concealed by the digastric r^l?l^ r^ ^.1"^ T'^^'''' ^"^^ediately above this it is mbedded m the gland; as it crosses the inferior maxilla. It IS superficial, and may be felt pulsating during life being covered only by the skin, and a'few fibrl of the pktysmf and triangularis oris muscles. As it ascends on tl e face it IS remarkably tortuous, and is partly concealed by the adipose tissue of the cheek and a few fibres of the zygomatic muscles. The branches of the labial artery are divided into the cervical and the facial; the former are four foUows r ''''''^^ ^'^^'^'^ 1. Arteria palatina inferior ascends inwards and backwards between £nche°s"fo r m' ^*-^'°-Ph-yngeas muscles, sends off steTal Dranches to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, velum •i.. Arteria tonsillaris ascends between the stylo-(?k)ssus and inf^K^ai branches from the internal maxillary P'^eceding and with t^tSt^^nd'"'^^"'"^^ theyaredistributed to £lnr S:tf 1^-ScT' ""^f^-^"^'^ =™- along close to the origTn o tl e my :Tvoi7''""i '""'^'"''^ '^l""' to all the surrounding strSS^'^l?'f'^-^ • branches number of branches somo of !V u '"'"'"ates anteriorly in a responding branche ' from thl the cor- S ancnes trom the opposite side, whilst others windREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 302 round the chin to anastomose with the hranches of the inferior dental and inferior labial arteries. The facial branches of the labial artery are the fol- lowing : 1. Arteria labialis inferior runs inwards to the integuments and muscles of the lower lip, where it anastomoses with the branches of tlfe preceding, the inferior dental, and the artery of the oppo- site side. 2. Arteria coronaria inferior ascends inwards beneath the fibres of the depressor anguli oris, gains the lower lip, near the free margin of which it runs close to the mucous membrane; it sup- plies the lower lip, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, with the superior coronary, the inferior labial, and the inferior dental arteries. 3. Arterim masseteric^ are a few irregular branches which pass outwards to the masseter and buccinator muscles, and anastomose with the branches of the transversalis faciei artery. 4. Arteria coronaria superior runs inwards to the upper lip, where it lies near its free border and close to the mucous membrane. It supplies the upper lip, sending a few branches upwards to the schneiderian membrane of the nose, and one ascending branch, named arteria septi, runs forwards as far as the tip of the nose. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior coronary and nasal arteries. In operating on the upper lip for hare-lip, and on the lower for the removal of cancerous growths, the coronary arteries are wounded. The haemorrhage, during the operation, may be restrained by compressing the lip between the fingers until the operation is completed, when, the edges of the wound being brought together, the bleeding will in general cease. In passing the needles through the lip, to retain the cut surfaces in apposition, they should be passed deep through its substance, close to the mucous membrane. If passed more superficially, the posterior part of the wound will gape, and the coronary arteries bleed into the mouth. The first needle should always be passed close to the free border of the lip, in order that no irregularity be left in it. As the lower lip contains a large number of glands, it is more frequently attacked with cancer than the upper. Blows on the mouth sometimes divide the lips on the inner surface, by pressure against the teeth: here a suture should be inserted, and thus the wound be closed internally. 5. Arteria lateralis nasi is a small branch distributed to the side of the nose.DIGASTBIC Oil SUPBA-HYOID REGION. 303 6. Arteria angidaris is the terminating branch of the labial artery- it ascends between the lieads of the levator labii snperioris alEeque nasi to the inner canthus of the eye, sends branches to the lids and caruncnla lacrymalis, and anastomoses with branches from the ophthalmic arteiy. The angular y«« proceeds from the terminating branches of the angular artery, and being joined by a large vein from the forehead, which indeed appears to be the com- mencement of the fiicial vein, it descends close to the artery to form the facial vein. This facial takes a nearly vertical course downwards, along the side of the cheek, crosses Steno's duct, where it is at some distance from the artery, descends over the side of the inferior maxilla, and termmates in the internal jugular vein in the anterior superior triangle of the neck. It frequently sends off a branch to join the external jugular vein. The angular vessels, and more particularly the vein, are endangered in performing the operation for the cure of fistula lacrymalis The incision should be made on the outer side of these vessels. ' The trunk of the labial artery, whilst in the neck, is engaged in the operations of extirpating the submaxillary gland, or in removing the lower jaw; when divided it should be at once secured In the tace it is much exposed to wounds, as also the several operations performed in this region. When wounded, the vessel may be compressed by the finger of an assistant, where it cmses wn is secured. Smal neceZy '''' P"^P°^^' "^"^ In no part of the body, perhaps, does a more free anastomosis of he smaller arterial branches exist than between the ve^n he face. This has an important influence in restoring the circu- " lation when the carotid artery has been tied. It also affects materially the treatnient of aneurism by anastomosis, ^ wWch rhetumour "''^'^ 'y*^'"^ '''' artery leading t^ On raising the submaxillary gland, the mvlo-hvoid ztz::'7^: ^1 '/^".f\ -"11 povtioro7the nyo glossus. The mylo-hyoid muscle, extending from the raylo-hyoidean ridge of the inferior maxilla to Z os hyoides, ,s continuous on the mesial line w h if! f i % teoppo.tesid.^ of much use in the act of sucking. On raisinf. it M i ;304 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. nerves, and lingual vein are seen. The gustatory nerve first lies above the duct, then arches beneath it, and finally ascends again above it, to be distributed to the papillae on the side and tip of the tongue. It commu- nicates freely with the lingual nerve, which lies near the OS hyoides on the hyo-glossus muscle. The lingual artery passes along the deep surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, or between its fibres, which thus separate it from the lingual nerve. On the mesial line the genio-hyoid muscle is seen running parallel to its fellow, from the chin to the os hyoides. By a little further dissection, the lingualis and genio-hyo- fflossi muscles will be exposed, the latter on the mesial line, the former to its outer side, and separated from it by the ranine artery; as also the three styloid muscles, the stylo-hyoid most superficial, the shjlo-glossus next, and the stylo-pharyngeus deepest. Beneath the anterior and lateral part of the tongue, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, to which it adheres closely, is the sublingual gland, the smallest of the saHvary glands. This resembles the other salivary glands in appearance and structure. It is somewhat oblong in shape, and is bounded above by the mucous membrane, internally by the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and inferiorly by the mylo- hyoid. It is often connected by its posterior extremity with the prolonged portion of the submaxillary gland; indeed all the salivary glands are frequently jomed together by distinct processes. The sublingual gland gives oft several ducts, (ducts of Riviuus,) some of which perforate the mucous membrane of the mouth, beneath the side of the tongue, whilst others join the Whartoman duct. Arteria lingualis arises from the external carotid, in general between the superior thyroid and labial arteries From its origin the lingual artery curves forwards and inwards towards the os-hyoides, forming an arch convex upwards, and separated from the corresponding arch ot the superior thyroid artery by the cornu of the os hyoides. it passes immediatelv above the os hyoides, internal to or through the fibres of the hyo-glossus muscle, which here separates it from the lingual nerve placed on the cutaneous surface of this muscle. The artery then ascends towards the base of the tongue, from which it proceeds horizoutaUyDIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 305 forwards, along its under surface, to its anterior extremity where it terminates. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus muscle, the lingual artery is covered externally by the integuments, platysma, and fascia, and near the cornu of the OS hyoides by the tendon of the digastricus; it rests on the superior laryngeal nerve, and some cellular substance, and near the os hyoides on the middle constrictor of the pharynx; the lingual nerve lies superficial and a little superior to it. Beneath the hyo-glossus it is covered, in addition to the fibres of this muscle, by the mylo-hyoid, aud rests on a few fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus. Beyond the hyo-glossus, it is again joined by the lingual nerve, wmch terminates with it in the tongue. The principal branches of the hngual artery are the following: •' Arteria dorsalis lingua arises beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, runs outwards to the side of the tongue, winds round, and reaches its dorsal surface, where it terminates, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. In its course this artery sends branches to itsrof brirher' ^'^'^ -pp"^'^^^ ^ At the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, the lingual artery divides into its two terminating branches, the sub- lingual and the ranine, Arteria mblingualis runs forwards and outwards to the subungual gland. It sends a few branches to the surrounding muscles and mucous membrane. ° Arteria ranina is apparently the continuation of the lingual artery ?t, "Zl ' under surface of the tongue from the base to cover«rhvfr'° ' ''"^f' and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, covered by the mucous membrane, its vein, and a branch of the lingual nerve. Besides sending a few branches to the muscles and mucous membrane of the tongue, it supphes the substance artery ofT"n ^^f' tomoses with ?he ar ery of the opposite side. This anastomosis is not free as each colLeVSecSr '"^^ '^"^^ ^vith'rd^^S ""TuVretpT^Vo^Zer^TSie ^'"^^^ P"-"*') and \oit par'^fi^that sitltion "^P'^'^^ "^-^1" "^^^^^^^ I 'i^C'''^^ f the tongue, such as &c., thf course oHh "S ^.S f'l^ ^"^S'""' dividing the fr.xnum lingua, tre poin of S ""'"''''^ ^" , directed downwardsandiickwaXif turn.T ^'^'^^^.f '^^ vessels, and more Particularl^te'^^SrSr306 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. Hjemorrhage from the tongue frequently occurs in consequence of wounds or deep ulcers. In cases of wounds, it is difficult to take up the divided ends of the vessel, in consequence of its retracting into the substance of the tongue. The bleeding may often be checked by bringing the internal surfaces together by means of a suture. If this and other local applications fail, the lingual artery may be tied by making a vertical incision over the digastric tendon ; this being exposed, the artery will be brought into view, either above or below the tendon, as may be desired. Mr. Harrison, in his work on the arteries, recommends a trans- verse incision for this purpose through the integuments and fascia from the os hyoides to the mastoid muscle. When profuse bleeding takes place from a deep ulcer, and local measures have been found ineffectual to repress it, the lingual artery should be tied near to the digastric tendon. Some recommend in both these cases the tying of the external carotid artery, and this indeed is the operation which will be found most easy of per- formance, and perhaps more eifectual from its interrupting the flow of blood by means of the anastomosis between the lingual and labial arteries. The posterior branches of the external carotid are the following: 1. Arteria muscularis vel stemo-mastoidea is an irregular branch, which frequently arises from the superior thyroid or the occipital. It runs downwards and outwards to the sterno-mastoid muscle, accompanied by the spinal accessory nerve. It supphes this muscle, the scaleni, and rectus capitis anticus major, anastomosing with branches from the occipital, superior thyroid, and trans- versalis colli arteries. 2. Arteria posterior auris arises from the second stage of the external carotid artery. It runs upwards and backwards along the inferior margin of, and partly imbedded in, the parotid gland, towards the mastoid process; it then ascends between this and the ear, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a pos- terior; the anterior branch is lost in the integuments and cartilage of the ear, principally on its posterior surface; the posterior branch ascends on the lateral surface of the cranium to the integument and temporal muscle, where it anastomoses with the branches of the temporal and occipital arteries. The posterior trunk sends off a small branch whicli enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, to supply the temporal bone and internal ear. 3. Arteria occipitalis arises from the outer surface of the external carotid, immediately below the digastric muscle. Shortly after its origin it hooks round the lingual nerve, which at the same time gives off its descendens noni branch; the occipital then crosses the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, ascends under cover of, and conducted by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle towai-ds the base of the cranium; it here runs in a groove in theDIGASTRIC OR SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 307 temporal bone on the inner side of the mastoid process, passes above the transverse process of the atlas, resting on the rectus capitis lateraHs muscle; it then passes had.wards, becomes super- ficial close to the outer edge of the trapezius muscle, and ascends in the scalp on the posterior surface of the cranium, where it terminates in numerous branches, which supply the region of the scalp and anastomose with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior aural and temporal branches. It is here accompanied by branches of the great occipital nerve. The occipital artery lies deep, except near to its termination; it is at first concealed by the sterno-mastoid, stylo-hyoid, and digastric muscles, and the lower margin of the parotid gland; above and behind this, it IS covered by the trachelo-raastoideus, splenius capitis, and some- times by the complexus; it here crosses the occipital attachments ot the posterior recti and superior oblique muscles. In the scalp it IS superficial, and may be I'elt during life The first branch given ofl^ from this artery is the sterno-mastoid, Hut which occasionally comes oflF separately from the external carotid; where it crosses the internal jugulir vein, it sometimes sends off a posterior meningeal artery, which ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the foramen lacerum posterius to supply the dura mater. Between this and its course in the scalp it of t£5 ""f'^"^ '^'•.^f Jies to the surrounding muscles; some of these anastomose with branches of the vertebral artery, others tll JTf °' ^"-^ anastomose with rlZtv , . transversahs colli, transversalis humeri, and run. down the neck, between the spinous and transverse pro- cesses under the muscles, to anastomose with the profunda cenMcis branch from the subclavian. piuiunaa From the superficial course of the occipital artery in the scalp it is n7LnTlliZi:''°'^''' ""'"'^ by ligature, if prfssure be foUowiiT""^'"^ ^^'•^ti'i the Arteriapharynrjea ascendens. This artery, from the denth ,t „,i • u cranmm, between tlip nhm-vnv o„ i • t ''""''"•s ine base of the the veriebral column ami Inl^i^"'^ ^ which they anastomose withC^a tl i, V"™' parts from the labial and internal mSua?;. "^"'''^ '° ''''''REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 308 The three remaining branches of the external carotid are given oflf in the parotid gland ; we shall therefore now consider the parotid region. PAROTIB REGION. This is a quadrilateral space, situated between the ear and mastoid process, bounded in front by the ramus of the lower jaw and masseter muscle, above by the zj'goraa, and below by the stylo-maxillary ligament and a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process, which separate it from the digastric space, properly so called, and behind by the mastoid process and meatus auditorius externus. In it are contained the parotid gland, and imbedded in its substance the portio dura, the external jugular vein, the external carotid artery, and the origins of the temporal, internal, maxillary, and trans- versalis faciei arteries; and more deeply seated the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, with some branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. The parotid gland lodged in this space is covered by the skin and a few fibres of the platysma, immediately beneath which lies the auriculo-paritidean nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus, which ascends to the integuments of the temporal region. One or two lym- phatic glands are occasionally met with here, immediately in front of the external ear. These sometimes become diseased and enlarged, and by pressing on the parotid gland, seem to occupy its situation. Such affections have been mistaken for disease of the parotid gland itself. Underneath these, the parotid gland is covered by a dense layer of the cervical fascia, which gives to the surface of the gland a flattened or slightly convex shape, and ascends on its cutaneous surface to be attached to the zygoma; posteriorly, this layer of fascia is attached to the external meatus auditorius, and is lost on the mastoid muscle. The cervical fascia not only covers the gland on its cutaneous surface, but sends processes into its interior, which separate it into distinct portions, and give to it the lobulated appearance for which it is so remarkable. The deep surface of the gland is not covered by the fascia, but sinks irregularly into the several intervals met with at the base of the skull, between the nerves, vessels, &c.PAROTID REGION. 309 Thus, prolongations of the gland are met with, surrounding the styloid process, between the internal lateral ligament and the lower jaw, in the posterior part of the glenoid cavity, and between the pterygoid muscles ; consequently, the parotid gland, from the great depth to which it extends, has most important relations, namely, the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the eighth and ninth nerves, and the third division of the fifth nerve, relations which must render the removal of this gland one of the most formidable operations in surgery. The great strength of the cervical fascia covering the outer surface of the parotid gland, has much influence on its diseases. When the gland becomes attacked with acute inflammation {cynanche parotidea), the distension of the gland is resisted by the fascia; this adds much to the sufferings of the patient, from the gland bemg forced inwards so as to compress the numerous nerves con- nected with it. The motions of the lower jaw and tongue are also interfered with from the same cause, so that the acts of mastication and deglutition are with difiiculty performed. If the inflammation be not controlled by appropriate treatment, matter forms, which is bound down by the fascia, and is thus prevented from coming to the surface; it spreads beneath the fascia, and may undermine this to a considerable extent. More frequently the matter bursts through the deficiency in the anterior part of the meatus auditorius externus, and is thus discharged by the external ear. It is the duty of the surgeon to anticipate the painful process and relieve the sufferings of his patient by an eariy incision through the fascia. In doing so, it has been recommended to cut down, first on the fascia, to make a small puncture into it, and then dilate this on the director. This pre- caution is advised on account of the relation of the external carotid artery; we question if it be necessarv, as the matter as weU as a portion of the gland, separates the vessel from the fascia. On removing the cervical fascia, the structure of the parotid gland is exhibited. It is composed, like most conglomerate glands, of a number of granules or acini separated by prolongations of the cervical fascia, so as to render them distinct from each other, and give to the gland an n-regular granulated appearance. These acini are composed each of a small artery, vein nerve ah sorbent, and deferent duct; and these ducts collect the salivary fluid and convey it to the common duct, named Stenoman or the parotid duct. This duct then ar sing by a number of smaller ducts or radicles, emerges from theREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, 310 anterior and rather upper margin of the gland, passes forwards across the raasscter muscle, about an inch below the zygoma, and in a line drawn from the lobe of the ear, to midway between the angle of the mouth and the root of the nose, accompanied by the transversalis faciei artery and nerves, both whicb lie above it. Having arrived at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, the mucous or lining membrane of the duct dips inwards, perforates the buccinator muscle, and opens by a contracted orifice into the mouth, on the inner surface of the cheek, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and about half an inch beneath the reflexion of the mucous membrane of the cheek on the gums. The fibrous coat of the duct, on the contrary, does not perforate the buccinator muscle, but expands and is lost on the outer surface of that muscle. Steno's duct is composed of two coats, an external fibrous, and an internal lining mucous membrane. The fibrous coat is remarkably strong, and forms the greater portion of the calibre of the duct, its cavity being com- paratively small. The hning mucous membrane is con- tinuous with that of the mouth. Between the zygoma and Steno's duct, a small portion of the gland, somewhat detached from the rest, lies on the masseter muscle. It is called the socia parotidis. A small duct proceeds from it, which joins the parotid duct, or opens by a distinct aperture into the mouth. Steno's duct is sometimes cut into by accident, or in performing operations on the face; wounds of it are exceedingly difficult of cure, as the saliva flows through the opening, and thus forms a fistula, from which the saUva escapes to the detriment of the digestive function. If the wound should not have been united by the first intention, the introduction of a small seton into the mouth, so as to conduct the fluid in that direction, until the external wound shall have closed, aifords the most probable chance of success. The parotid gland is supplied with blood by brancuea from the external carotid and temporal arteries. Its veins return the blood to the external jugular. It is hable to inflammation and suppuration, as also to the more malig- nant diseases. Its removal for the latter aff'ectiou has been accomplished in two or three instances. On cutting cautiously through the substance of this gland, or rather by scraping through it from behind for-PAROTID REGION. 311 wards, the portio dura nerve is first brought into view. This nerve escapes from the stylo-mastoid foramen, gives oflf a few branches to the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and immediately after enters the posterior and deep surface of the gland, which it traverses in a direction forwards and outwards, and escapes from its anterior margin on the masseter muscle, and is lost on the integuments and muscles on the side of the temple, face, and neck. In the substance of the parotid gland, the portio dura presents a remarkable appearance, the pes anserinus, formed by its division into two trunks, the temporo-facial, and the cervico-facial, and the subdivision of these into numerous branches, some of which ascend, others pass transversely whilst others descend. The pes anserinus lies superficial to the external jugular vein and external carotid artery and IS separated from them by a small portion of the gland. '■ . By removing a little more of the gland, the external jugular vein and the external carotid artery will be exposed the former lying superficial to, but in close contact with tne latter. The external jugular vein is formed in the substance of the parotid gland, by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins, from thence it descends in the neck and terminates in the subclavian vein. The external carotid artery lies in the parotid gland, beneath the portio dura and external jugular vein- it here gives oli its last branches, viz., the transversalis faciei, the temporal and internal maxillary arteries : the last two are more particularly its terminating branches, and arise opposite a point nearly midway between the zygoma and the angle of the lower jaw, but a little nearer the former ande ortl.f''"''"''''^''' ^""'"S ^ ^"^^ «bove the angle of the jaw runs upwards and forwards through the gland escapes from its anterior margin, crosses e masseter muscle, parallel to and above tlie pai-o id di^t accompanied by filaments of the portio durf and nartlv312 BEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. versalis faciei artery is sometimes wounded in blows on the clieek; it should be secured with a ligature. This artery, although described as a branch of the external carotid, is more correctly given as a branch of the tem- poral artery, from which it almost constantly proceeds. Arteria temporalis superficialis is smaller than the internal maxillary, but runs more in the direction of the primitive trunk. From its origin, the temporal artery ascends through the parotid gland in front of the meatus auditorius externus; escapes from its upper margin, crosses the zygoma near its root and directly in front of the tragus of the external ear, ascends slightly forwards on the tem- poral aponeurosis, and about an inch or an inch and a half above the zygoma, terminates by dividing into two branches, the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. The temporal artery first lies deep in the parotid gland; as it crosses the zygoma it is superficial, and may be felt or compressed here during life; above this it is crossed by the attrahens aurem muscle, and is covered by a pro- longation of the cervical fascia; still higher up it is covered only by the integuments. In the parotid gland the temporal artery gives ofl", generally, the transverse facial artery, and a few branches to the gland, the external ear, and articulation of the lower jaw. Immediately after crossing the zygoma it sends off the following: Ramus temporalis medius, very small, and not constant, arises from the deep surface of the temporal artery, perforates the temporal aponeurosis, and suppUes the temporal muscle, anastomosing ■with the branches of the deep temporal arteries from the internal maxillary. , , , , j ^ Eamus temporalis posterior passes backwards and upwards to supplv the scalp, and anastomose with the branches of the posterior aural and occipital arteries, and those of the opposite Ramus temporalis anterior runs upwards and forwards, supplies the integuments and muscles of the forehead, and anastomoses with the frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The anterior temporal artery is that usually selected for the per- formance of arteriotomy, when the operation is required, as m cases of violent inflammation of the brain and membranes, deep- seated ophthalmia, apoplexy, &c. The patient being I'.'aced in the sitting posture, with his side turned towards the light, the surgeon feels for the pulsation of the vessel. Ha\ing ascertained its precise situation, he fixes it firmly between the first andPAROTID REGION. 313 second fingers of the left hand, held about half an inch apart in the interval he makes an incision over the artery with a lancet or scalpel. The vessel being exposed, it may be opened obliquely If cut across, the divided ends of the vessel will retract, and a sufficient quantity of blood cannot generally be drawn. When the blood flows slowly, a warm sponge should be applied to the part, or the course of the artery filliped with the finger. As soon as a sufficient quantity of blood has been taken, the edges of the wound are to be brought together, and retained in apposition with a strap of adhesive plaster; over this a compress is to be placed, and the whole secured with a bandage brought round the forehead and under the chin. It has been recommended to cut the artery across, before closing the wound; it is in general unnecessary to do so, unless the branch divided be larger than usual. ° Secondary hsemorrhage not unfrequently follows the operation, bhould It prove troublesome, the vessel may be secured with the ligature. As it is, however, difficult to tie arteries in the scalp, a better method is the introduction of a dossil of lint, moistened with spirits of turpentine, into the wound, and placing over it a compress and bandage as before: this method will never fail if properly executed. The cutting across the artery (if not pre- viously done) may also be had recourse to The operation of arteriotoray should never be resorted to when other means may accomplish the desired ends, as, independently o secondary haemorrhage, many other after-consequeuces result w hich are som-ces of much distress to the patient. The presence of the bandage is often found exceedingly unpleasant. Besfdes Sn of ThpT"'"' 1"""^^"*^^' "^'^ sloughs, infiam.' mation of the temporal aponeurosis takes place, and may be followed by the formation of matter beneath the fascia rsome imes one or more of the numerous nervous filaments' vldch The artery should never be opened close to the zvgoma, as it miv shrink beneath this into the substance of the parotid gland Zl Arteria maxillaris interna, larger than the temporal passes olF nearly at a right angle from the bifmS of the e.xternal carotid artery. It soon passes to the kner side of the neck of the lower jaw, and nursnino. n7? . course forwards and inwards, tern'inat^es n tt n maxillary fossa by dividing into the bfraoliLl J -'^f" ing palatine, and nasal arteries. tJ^^ 't Jn., nl'^'S"'^" artery, although not of great len^r h /<= i, v''''^''''y in order to focilitate its'desciSn 1^1^^ In the first stage it descends 14REGIONAL AND SUllGICAL ANATOMY. 314 ramus of the lower jaw and the internal lateral ligament. In the second stage it ascends forwards and inwards, passing through a triangular space bounded above by the external pterygoid muscle, below by the internal ptery- goid, its apex being at the origin of these muscles, its base directed outwards at the ramus of the jaw, whence it winds over the external pterygoid muscle, lies between it and the temporal muscle, and arrives at the back part of the orbit; it then descends and completes its third stage in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. The branches of the internal maxillary artery are thirteen in number; viz. Ramus tympanicus, Ramus meningeus parvus, Arteria meningea media, Maxillaris inferior, Plerygoidem, Temporales profunda, Massetericas, ' Buccales, Maxillaris superior, Infraorbitalis, Palatina descendens, Vidiana, Nasalis. In the first stage it gives ofi" the three following: Bamus tympanicus. This small vessel runs backwards, and passes through the fissura glaseri into the tympanum, where it anastomoses with the branches of the stylo- mastoid artery, given ofi" from the posterior aural. Arteria meningea media is the largest branch of the internal maxillary, from the superior part of which it arises. It thence ascends towards the cranium between the internal lateral ligament and the tensor palati, giving off branches to the surrounding structures, and passing through the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone, enters the cavitv of the cranium : it here lies between the bone and dura' mater, in a groove in the former, sometimes for a part of its course in a complete bony canal, and closely connected to the latter. It first crosses the squamous portion of the temporal bone, then the anterior inferior angle of the parietal, and thence ascends, parallel and a little posterior to the coronal suture, to the verte.x, where it is lost in numerous branches, which t-re variously dis-PAROTID REGION. 3]5 tributed to the bones. In this course the middle menin- geal artery gives off several branches, the course of which may be recognised by the grooves in the several bones. Eamus meningeus parvus. This is a very small artery jhich ascends and passes into the cranium, throuo-h the foramen ovale, to supply the dura mater. ^ The branches of the meningeal arteries are principally lost in the supply of the bones of the cranium. The dura mater thus acts as an mternal periosteum to the skuU; indeed it would appear that It IS more essential to its support than the external perios- fron?tt° wf'I ^egree of vascularity, and from its separation from the bones, whether produced by external violence or other WTW^ '''"'■''^'y ^"""^^-^ "^''••osis or death of the bone. This circumstance, as also the free anastomosis between the vessels of the dura mater and the external periosteum is of rnuch importance in practice, as being the cause of that direct T^^IX ""^.''''''' ^''^'''^ coverings of the SkuU and the parts contained within. Whenever, therefore the covermgs are injured or diseased, too much caution cammt be at"s;mpSm\''tha7:T T '^^T"^ ^ P'^^""^^'^' ^ ^ -" "^"ng any symptoms that may lead him to siisnppf ti,af • a. i membranes are Ukely toUicipare in t^e Sased actn" " any part of the cran'ium\Tneath wMch 'rartet"oitd^ vein, lay, from an erroneous impression th-it tl J'1 , " could not be restrained. So fa7frorthis bei„l H "'""''r bleeding is found to be arrested morel 5y tha7tha? arteries, a circumstance imputed to the i.^ f., ? middle coat of the meningea arteries 1.It f owing to the laceration of he ve 1 caused'b"":'^ ""l'^^^^^ removal of a part of the bone by the trephine Arterta dentalis vel ma.Tillaris inferior proceeds from fi , surface of the internal maxillary arterl neariv nn ! ^ ^""^'^^ preceding. It thence descends! accompan ? bfth ' • dental nerve, to the dental foramen, beTween L I. the internal lateral ligament, which la 7 " . '^'^ ''"^ gustatory nerve. It now entels tL r f'om the traverses the canal in tlel c"£;n xilH^^^^^^^^^ ^'"■«'"'=n. teeth, and near its anterior cSmUv "'dP^ T ^"^"^^ ^^'^ one of which continues its course oS^^S tt ^T"'''' the incisor teeth; the other, the menial Zi ^ '^''"'"^ '^^'"^ath316 EEGIONAL AND SUUGICAL ANATOMY. foramen, and is lost in the muscles and integuments of the lower lip, in which it anastomoses with the inferior labial and coronary arteries. Before entering the dental foramen, the inferior dental artery gives off a few branches: some of these proceed to the pterygoid muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx; one runs in the mylo-hyoid groove of the lower jaw, accompanied by the nerve of the same name, to the mylo-hyoid muscle. In the canal, branches ascend from it which, perforating the roots of the teeth, are lost in their supply. In removing one or more of the teeth of the lower jaw, the inferior dental artery, or some of its branches, may be injured; and should the hajmorrhage prove troublesome, a dossil of lint, or piece of sponge, or even wood of a conical form, should be introduced into the wound, or (which is still more effectual) the tooth may be replaced, and allowed to remain for some time. In a case lately recorded, gutta jiercha was introduced into the hollow, and by pressure was found to be very successfully apphed. In the second stage the internal maxillary artery gives off muscular branches, which are as follows : Arteries pterygoidecB, irregular in number, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. ArtericB temporales profunda, two in number, enter the temporal fossa, in which they ascend, close to the bone, under cover of the temporal muscle, one near the root of the zygoma, the other near the malar bone. They supply the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal arteries. Arteria masseterica, generally a single vessel, passes outward through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw to supply the masseter muscle. Arteria buccalis supplies the buccinator muscle. All these arteries ai-e accompanied by branches from the inferior maxillary nerve. In its third stage, or whilst in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, the internal maxillary artery gives off the following : Arteria maxillaris superior, or superior dental, runs forwards on the superior maxillary bone, giving off several branches to supply the alveolar processes, gums, and the lining membrane of the antrum; one branch, the largest, perforates the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, runs forwards within the bone, supply- ing twigs in its course to all the roots of the teeth. Ai-teria infraorbitalis, the largest of the terminating branches, runs upwards and forwards, traverses the infraorbital canal from behind forwards, accompanied by the infraorbital nerve, sends branches upwards to the orbit and downwards to the antrum, anterior teeth, and escapes througli the infraorbital foramen upon the face, between the levator labii superioris and levator anguli oris muscles: it here spreads out into several branches, whichINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 317 anastomose with the branches of the labial and transversalis faciei arteries. Arteria palatina descendens descends in the posterior palatine canal, and divides into two branches, the smaller of which passes through a foramen in the pterygoid process of the palate bone, and IS lost in the velum; the larger descends in the canal to the palate, accompanied by nerves from Meckel's ganglion, turns forward, runs close to the inner surface of the alveolar processes of the superior maxiUa, supplies the hard palate, and sends a branch through the foramen incisivum to the nose. The vidian branch is very small, runs backwards with the vidian nerve, and distributes minute branches to the Eustachian tube pharynx, and tympanum. ' A pterygo-palatine is described by some as passing backwards through the pterygo-palatine foramen to supply the upper part of the pharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal cells. Artena nasalis, or spheno-palatine, passes through the spheno- pa atine foramen into the nasal cavity, opposite the posterior extremity of the superior meatus, and gives off branches to the mucous membrane, the ethmoidal cells, and one named ar^ma- sq>ti, which runs forwards, and terminates in a branch which descends in the anterior palatine foramen, to join a branch of the palatme artery. ARTERIA CAROTIS INTERNA VEL PROFUNDA. This vessel, so named from supplying tlie interior of tlie cranium, lies posterior and external to the external carotid at Its origin, and is much larger in the foetus and the young subject, but in the adult, the two vessels are nearly of equal size. From the bifurcation of the common carotid, the internal carotid ascends in front of the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae to the base of the cranium, where it enters the foramen caroticum, then traverses the carotic canal, runs above the foramen lace- rum medium and ascending by the side of the sella turcica, and passing through the cavernous sinus, it arrives opposite the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, and terminat s by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral and posterior communicating arteries. In the neck the internal carotid is very tortuous, par- ticularly at the early periods of life. It first bends ont wards, then ascends forwards and inwards and ear the temporal bone forms one or more curves iireS in process, theUEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 318 the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and a portion of the parotid gland. It is still further covered by the digastric muscle, the lingual and facial nerves. The internal carotid artery rests first on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, then on the par vagum and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The internal jugular vein, near the base of the skull, lies almost directly behind it, but as the vein descends it also gets external to it. The lingual nerve, as it escapes from the anterior condyloid foramen, hes posterior and internal to the internal carotid artery, but soon, passing between it and the internal jugular vein, or between the branches of the latter, gets external to it, and finally crosses both carotid arteries a short distance below the digastric muscle. The spinal accessory nerve, as it descends, passes generally behind the internal jugular vein, and thus has little or no relation to the internal carotid artery. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery lies the pharynx, separated from it by a small interval inferiorly, but more closely connected above. The tonsil is also internal and somewhat anterior to it. In inflammation of these parts, but more particularly of the tonsils, this relation to the internal carotid artery is of much importance. Should abscess form in the gland, the matter should be dis- charged by directing the instrument backwards and inwards; on no account should it be turned outwards, as the artery is thereby much endangered. It is true that, in the healthy state, the tonsil is not in close contact with the internal carotid artery, but it is so in the inflamed state; for when the gland inflames it enlarges inwards towards the fauces and opposite tonsil, and also presses outwards so as almost to touch the artery. Whilst passing through the petrous bone, the internal carotid artery takes a curved course also; it first ascends, then passes forwards and inwards, and then ascends again, passing at the same time a little inwards; in this course it forms a curve resembUng an italic S. As it enters the foramen caroticum it lies directly behind the Eustachian tube, and then lies immediately in front of the cavity of the tympanum, being separated from it by a thin plate of bone, not unfrequently absorbed, particularly in advanced life; as the artery runs forward it lies beneath and to the outer side of the cochlea, and below the Eustachian tube; it soon after gets above this, and, at the foramen lacerumINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 319 basis cranii antei'ius, is only separated from it by a fibro- cartilaginous substance, which assists in closing up the opening. As the internal carotid artery passes through the carotic canal, it is accompanied by filaments from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which ascend along with it to the cavity of the cranium, and terminate by sending off minor plexuses to accompany the branches of the artery, and by anastomosing with the cerebral nerves on the side of the cavernous sinus. The internal carotid is but little exposed to accidents, and still less to the knife of the surgeon. It has been occasionally divided in deep injuries of the neck or by foreign bodies being driven along the cavity of the mouth, through the walls of the pharynx. Several instances have occurred where tobacco-pipes have been forced in this direction so as to wound the internal carotid artery. When the hsemorrhage is not immediately fatal, the common carotid artery should be secured. It is possible that this will not be sufficient to restrain the bleeding from the upper end of the divided vessels. If such be the case, and pressure be ineffectual, the other common carotid should be tied. From the relation of the internal carotid to the organ of hearing, and to the different nerves distributed to the eye and orbit, organic or functional disease of it has much influence on both the senses of hearing and vision, and gives rise to symptoms too often considered as the result of diseases of the ear or eye; thus, tinnitus aurium, twitchings of the muscles of the eyelid,'amau- rosis, &c., are frequently induced by the morbid condition of this vessel. As the internal carotid winds through the petrous bone, it is implicated in fractures aflfecting the base of the skull, and may be ruptured, giving rise to haimorrhage from the external ear. Such cases are beyond the power of art. In its cervical and temporal stages the internal carotid artery gives off no branch of importance; but sometimes the pharyngea ascendens arises from it in the neck : as it escapes from the cavernous sinus it gives off the following: Arteria ophthalmica passes forwards, enters the orbit alone with the optic nerve, contained in a sheath of the dura mater- it first W .rnf''f "T'' ' P"''*^' ^"'■^"^ds, winds round it, first crossing its outer side, and then rising above it and term! nates at the inner side of the orbit, and ne^ar it ant kor parHy dividing into numerous small branches. ^ ' ^ followsophthalmic artery are as I. Arteria lacnpnalis passes forwards to the lacrymal gland in which It IS chiefly lost, sending a few branches toX iSs, and320 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. one or two which perforate the malar bone and anastomose with the deep temporal arteries. 2. Arteria centralis retinae, small in size, arises near the optic foramen, penetrates the optic nerve, and runs forward in its centre to the interior of the eye; on arriving at the posterior part of the vitreous humour, it sends off numerous branches, which form or supply the inner layer of the retina. A small branch perforates the hyaloid membrane, passes forwards through the vitreous humour as far as the capsule of the lens. When the optic nerve is cut across, this artery forms a dark spot in the centre, which was formerly called the porus opticus. 3. Arteria supraorbitalis arises as the ophthalmic artery crosses the optic nerve, and is of considerable size; it ascends forwards, runs between the periosteum and levator palpebrae superioris muscle, accompanied by the frontal nerve, passes out through the super- ciliary notch, ascends on the forehead as high as the vertex, anastomosing with the branches of the facial and temporal arteries. Besides its terminating branches, the supraorbital artery sends off several branches to the parts in its immediate neighbourhood; none of them are of importance. 4. Arterice ciliares consist of three sets, the short, long, and anterior. The short, irregular as to origin, are from ten to fifteen in number; they pass along with the optic nerve, some above, others below it, accompanied by the ciliary nerves: by dividing, they increase in number as they approach the globe of the eye, and perforate the posterior part of the sclerotic coat at about two lines distance from the entrance of the optic nerve; immediately after entering the eye they divide into numerous little branches, which anastomose wonderfully together, forming a beautiful network in the choroid, under the name of tunica ruyscMana, and communicate slightly with the arteries of the iris. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, perforate the back part of the globe of the eye, pass forwards, one on each side, between the sclerotic and choroid coats, then perforate the ciliary ligament to reach the iris, where they form the chief part of the circulus arteriosus major. The anterior ciliary branches are given off from the muscular arteries of the ophthalmic; they perforate the sclerotic coat about one or two lines distant from the cornea, and terminate in the iris. The anterior ciliary arteries form a vascular zone round the cornea, which is particularly manifest in iritis and sclerotitis. 5. Arterice musculares, irregular as to number and size, are dis- tributed to the muscles of the orbit, and give off the anterior ciliary branches. 6. Arterial ethmoidales, two in number, arise from the ophthalmic artery on the inside of the optic nerve, pass, one through the foramen orbitale internum posterius, the other through the fora- men orbitale internum anterius, along with the nasal nerve; they sparingly supply the dura mater, then perforate the cribriformINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 321 plate, and are lost in the mucous membrane of the ethmoid cells and nose. 7 and 8. Arterice palpebraks, superior and inferior, pass forwards from the orbit, the superior one above, the inferior one below the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, to the supply of the upper and lower hds, the cai-uncula lacrymalis and lacrymal sac. 9. Arteria nasalis escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the superior oblique muscle and the tendon of the orbicularis palpe- brarum to the side of the nose, on which it is lost. 10. Arteria frontalis is the last terminating branch of the ophthal- mic artery; it escapes from the orbit with the preceding, but tu ns upwards to the supply of the occipito-frontalis and cC gator supercilu muscles and integuments of the forehead. Shortly after the origin of the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid divides into its terminating branches I. Ramus communicans posterior is in general the first lltt^r^T' 1 ''^f^^ terminating branches; it runs backwards and inwards for about an inch between the arachnoid inembrane and the pia mater, and to the outer side of the infundibulum and corpora albicantia and uni es with the posterior cerebral artery, thus com-' p etmg the circle of Wilhs laterally. Some sil b LXs proceed from this artery to the surrounding pia mater. 2 Arteria cerebri anterior ascends forwards and in- wards between the optic and olfactory nerves, above the former, and below the latter, and arrives at the fissure which separates the anterior lobes of the brain • it here approaches its fellow of the opposite side, and b comes united with It either by a meeting of the two trS o by means of a transverse branch, named the anterior communicating artery. The trunks again proceed for wards along the under surface of the corpus callosum hence named the arteries of the corpus canosum wi^rJ round Its anterior extremity, then run bacl IrX' T Its upper surface, and soon divide eaTin o tto btct".^ one of which continues along the corpus calTosum tn t?'" posterior extremity, where it is In.t in fi to the of the lateral herJlis^he e f the b am • hVT '"'"'^'^ off directly from the corpus cal um on tff^'r hemisphere, in which it is lost ^''^^''^^ ..ra, outwards and baokwarrtt'o' tt'C^Tf 14 §322 UEGIONAL AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. Sylvius, and then, winding upwards and outwards, di^ades into numerous branches, which, breaking down m the pia mater, supply chiefly the anterior and middle lobes ot the brain. Pew circumstances have more influence on the operations performed by the surgeon on the arteries of the neck and upper extremity. Whether for the removal of aneurism, or for the restormg of arterial haemorrhage in cases of wounds, where the principal branches of the carotid arteries are wounded, than the tree - anastomosis which exists between all the vessels of the brain. In the operation for aneurism, this fact should hamsh from the mind all apprehensions of a deficient circulation, so long as the arteries of one side remain perfect; nay, we might almost venUire to say, as long as even one vessel is left to convey the blood to the brain. ANATOMY OF THE PHAKYNS AND MOUTH. The examination of these parts is best conducted by detaching them from the anterior part of the vertebral column. Tor this purpose make a transverse mcision through the trachea and oesophagus, a httle above the sternum and down to the vertebral column; raise these from the spine, together with the vessels and nerves on either side] dissect them gradually upwards as far as the basilar process of the occipital bone; now either separate the head at the articulation with the atlas, or saw it hrough from below upwards, by placmg^the saw nearly flat iipon the vertebrae, inclining its edge at the same time a little backwards. The section having been made, the pharynx should be first studied. THE PHABYNX is a musculo-membranous bag or .f ^7°^^'J^^^^^^ riorly, and extends from the occipital bone to the fourth or Mth cervical vertebra, where it terminates m the cesophagus, Sactly opposite the termination of the larynx m the tracliea uTs expanded above and in the centre, but is contrac ed towards its termination. Posteriorly it rests on the vertebral column, with the intervention of the anter or common ligament, the rectus capitis anticus major and ongus colli muscles. It is connected with these pam by a quantity of loose reticulated ceUular tissue, which allows of its free motion.THE PHARYNX. 323 This cellular tissue is sometimes the seat of collections of pus, either from phlegmonous or erysipelatous inflammation, but still more frequently from a carious state of the bodies of the cervical vertebrffi. In such cases, the matter proceeds forwards, so as to form a convex swelhng at the back of the pharynx, distinguishable on looking into the cavity of the mouth, and at once recognized by a feeling of fluctuation. When the matter accumulates in large quantities, it presses so far forwards as to impede the acts of deglutition and respiration. When such is the case the pus should be discharged by the trocar and canula. These instruments having been passed through the mouth into the swelling, the trocar is to be withdrawn, so as to allow of the escape of the fluid along the canula. If a less cautious proceeding be adopted the matter may flow into the larynx, and so cause the suffocation of the patient. The looseness of the reticular cellular tissue, at the back of the pharynx, allows of the formation of those cul-de-sacs, sometimes developed in it, and as described by Ur. Baillie. Anteriorly the pharynx is related from above downwards to the posterior nares and Eustachian tubes, the velum palati, the isthmus faucium, the root of the tongue, the glottis, and the back of the larynx. On each side of the pharynx are the common carotid arteries and their branches, the internal and external carotids, together with the lingual, pharyngeal, and superior thyroid branches of the former. Of these the internal carotid lies in closest con- tact, especially towards its upper part, and is hence, as well as from its great size, one of the most important relations of this cavity. On each side of the pharynx several nerves also are to be noticed: these are the par vagum, which descends in the neck between the carotid artery and internal jugular vein; the glosso-pharyngeal, which winds round the stylo-pha- ryngeus muscle, giving filaments to the pharyngeal plexus; the lingual nerve, and the gustatory branch of the fifth' which winds beneath the side of the tongue, under the mucous membrane of the mouth, to be lost in the papilla of the tongue. The pharynx is attached superiorly by means of the numerous connections of its superior constrictor, and of a dense fascia or aponeurosis, better marked on the mesial line than on either side, to the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, to the petrous bone, and the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone; descend- ing from this, the fascia covers the muscular fibres of the324 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. pharynx, and is attaclied with them to the os hyoides and sides of the larynx and trachea; it is not so well markea inferiorly. This fascia is no doubt of use in preventing the over-distension of the pharynx. Beneath this, lie tbe muscles of the pharynx. These present an arrangement not to be met with in any other part of the body; that is, overlapping one another from below upwards, iney are symmetrical, and consist of three pairs of muscles, named from their office the constrictors of the pharynx, supenor, middle, and inferior. They have aU one common attach- ment to the mesial line posteriorly, and by means ot tins to the basilar process of the occipital bone, ihe ttesHy fibres of the inferior constrictor do not reach the occipital bone A small semicircular space, in which the muscular fibres are deficient, exists superiorly, between the occipita and temporal attachments of the superior constrictor named the sinus of Morcjagni; this corresponds interuaUy to the openin- of'the Eustachian tube: between the temporal and pterygoid attachments of this muscle, the muscles of the ielum lie ; between its pterygoid and maxillary attachments the internal pterygoid muscle and the gustatory nerve are ''^The l^harynx is lined internally by mucous membrane. This is continuous above with that Uning the nares, Eustachian tubes, fauces, and larynx, and inferior y descends into the (esophagus. This is covered by a thm layer of cuticle, named the epithelium, continued from the external integuments through the mouth P^^^^^-^l phagus, the stomach, at the cardiac orifice, of^h ch it chauo-es its character. The epithelium m the upper S as far as the floor of the nostrils, colunnar and a7ia^ecZ, but in the part below 52Ma»KOMS. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is of a i^^i e rose pink colour. It contains a number of mucous tollicles which, together with the surface ot the membrane and the tonsils, pour out a quantity of mucus which serves to moisten the food and protect the membrane, ihe pha- rynx receives its supply of blood principally from the nharyngea ascendens artery, a few branches are also distributed to it from the palatine, the superior; a"^ inferior thyroid arteries. Its nervous supply is derivea from the pharyngeal plexus.325 THE PHARYNX. la the quiescent state, the pharynx is closed by the approximation of its anterior and posterior walls, except superiorly, where it is capable of but little alteration, in consequence of its fixed bony attachments. When, how- ever, the food is about to enter its cavity, it becomes dilated from before backwards, by the larynx being drawn upwards and forwards beneath the tongue, and from side to side by the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles; the food now drops into its cavity, thus formed to receive it, and immediately the constrictors contract from above downwards, and force it into the cesophagas. The stylo-pharyngei are the muscles principally employed in increasing the transverse diameter of the pharynx. As the pharynx is most contracted at its lower parts, foreign bodies are most likely to be stopped in this situation. Should the body not be speedily removed suffocation will be the consequence, pro- duced by a spasmodic contraction of the constrictor muscles of the larynx, between which and the pharynx a powerful sympathy exists. In such cases, the surgeon should instantly pass his fingers into the mouth of the patient, and thus endeavour to extract the foreign body; if this should fail, the probang is to be passed downwards, and thus the substance be dislodged. Passing the probang is a simple operation: introduce the two forefingers of the left hand into the patient's mouth, so as to depress the root of the tongue, and guide the instrument; now pass the probang, pushing it backwards, until it strikes against the posterior wall of the pharynx, and push the instrument downwards and back- wards; by these means it will be forced to proceed downwards and descend into the pharynx. In passing the probang the tongue should not be drawn forwards, for by so doing the epiglottis is raised, and the glottis or upper opening of the larynx is left unpro- tected, and the instrument may thus pass into "the larynx. The same directions will serve to guide the practitioner in the intro- duction of the tube of the stomach-pump. Elastic tubes are also passed into the stomach through the pharynx, in cases of wounds . of the larynx, in attempts at suicide, or in diseases of this part, where deglutition cannot be performed without imminent risk to the patient. In these instances it is preferred by some to pass the instrument through the nares, as they thus cause less disturbance to the patient. When the pharynx is opened from behind, several openings and other important parts forming its anterior boundaries are brought into view. We shaU examine them from above downwards. The posterior nares are situated immediately above the velum J they are of an oval shape, or rather quadrilateral,326 BEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. with the long axis directed downwards, and slightly for- wards, and with angles rounded off. Each is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the palatine process of the palate bone, externally by the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate, internally by the posterior margin of the vomer, which forms the septum of the posterior nares. On each side of the posterior nares, and opposite the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone, is the opening of the Eustachian tube; this is circular and some- what trumpet-shaped, and is directed forwards and inwards towards the septum narium, and is formed of cartilage, lined by mucous membrane. To enter the opening of each Eustachian tube a probe may be passed along the inferior or middle meatus, into the tube itself, for the removal of any obstruction which sometimes exists in it and produces deafness. The probe should be first bent for this purpose, and then directed backwards and outwards along the meatus. Beneath the posterior nares is the— VELXJM PENDULUM PALATI, OE SOFT PALATE. This is a soft musculo-membranous septum, which par- tially divides the upper from the lower part of the pharynx, and separates the cavity of the mouth from the posterior nares. It is somewhat quadrilateral in shape; one margin is turned upwards and forwards, and is attached to the hard palate and posterior edge of the palate bone; the other margin is free, and is directed downwards and backwards, and has the uvula depending from its centre, on each side of which it is arched, forming the half arches of the palate ; on each side, the velum is attached, by means of the pillars of the fauces, to the tongue and pharynx. One surface of the velum is turned forwards and slightly downwards, the other is directed backw&rds and a little upwards; they both vary much in position according to the action of the muscles; for, during deglutition, the velum is raised and becomes horizontal. In structure, the velum is composed of muscular fibres, glands, blood-vessels, nerves, and a delicate aponeurosis covered by mucous membrane. The proper muscidar fibres consist of three muscles on either side, viz., the levator 2}alati, tensor palati, and motor327 VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. wvul(2, in addition to the palato-glossus and palato-pha- ryngeus. The glands in the velum are most numerous on its ante- rior surface; they lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The use of the velum is to prevent the food from passing, during the act of deglutition, upwards from the pharynx into the posterior nares. It is also of service in modulating the tones of the voice. The uvula is a conical projection pendent from the lower margin of the velum on the mesial line; it is com- posed of mucous membrane, inclosing a quantity of cel- lular tissue, some glands, and the fibres of the azygos uvulae, or levatores uvulae muscles. The uvula becomes occasionally elongated from effusion into its cellular tissue, the result of acute or chronic inflammation, and is a source of much annoyance from its touching, and thus irritating, the epiglottis. Should the effused fluid not become absorbed, a portion of the uvula may be removed with the scissors. Immediately beneath the velum is the isthmus faucium, leading into— THE CAVITY THE MOUTH. The oral cavity is best examined from behind ; irregular as to size and shape, it is bounded in front by the lips, supei-iorly by the hard palate, inferiorly by the tongue, and laterally by the cheeks. Posteriorly it communicates with the pharynx^, larynx, and posterior nares, by the isthmus faucium, an irregular opening transversely oval, bounded above by the soft palate, below by the root of the tongue and epiglottis, on each side by two crescentic folds of mucous membrane, named the arches of the palate, between which lies the tonsil or amygdala. The lips are formed by muscular fibres, glands, and cellular tissue (considered by some to be of an erectile nature), covered by mucous membrane. The glands in the lips are named labial glands; they lie beneath the mucous membrane, and are more abundant in the lower than in the upper lip. One or more of these glands is frequently afi"ectedwith cancer in the adult male subject. The cheeks are composed of skin externally, mucous membrane internally, between which are placed the buc- cinator muscles, and a quantity of adipose tissue. Each is328 REGIONAL AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. perforated by Steno's duct, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The hard palate or roof of the mouth is formed by the palatine processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, covered by a dense fibro-mucous membrane, marked irregularly with transverse projections. The tongue is of a triangular shape ; its base is thick and broad, and is connected to the epiglottis by folds of mucous membrane ; on each side, to the soft palate, by the pillars of the fauces ; and more inferiorly, to the os hyoides and lower jaw by muscles : its apex is thin and free. The part between the root and apex is named the body. The upper surface of the tongue, called also the dorsum, is slightly convex on each side, a little depressed in the centre; it is covered by mucous membrane, and presents a number of eminences, named papillae ; these are classed into three or four sets or orders, viz., the conical, which are small, and occupy the anterior part of the tongue, and are endowed with the sense of taste ; the lenticular, varying from nine to fifteen in number, are situated near the base of the tongue, in the form of a V, the apex being turned back- wards, and corresponding to a foramen varying in size and depth, named the foramen caecum ; the fungiform, more numerous than the preceding, are placed near to the sides and tip of the tongue. The under surface of the tongue is but partially covered by mucous merabr^, a fold of which, named frcenum linguce, connects it to Me inner surface of the symphysis of the inferior maxilla. In it may be per- ceived the ranine veins, one on either side of the mesial line, and a peculiar fringed arrangement of the mucous membrane. The Whartonian ducts open on the freenura linguae: these orifices are indicated by projections of the mucous membrane in the form of papillae. The substance of the tongue is composed of a peculiar fleshy mass, by some supposed to be muscular, by others erectile in its nature, intermingled with fat, the fibres of the stylo-glossi, hyo-glossi, genio-hyo-glossi, and palato-glossi and hnguales muscles, arteries, and nerves. In the centre of the tongue, running from behind forwards, is a fibrous septum, which divides it imperfectly into two lateral portions; this is more perfect behind than in the anterior portion. The principal arteries of the tongue are the dorsalis linguse and329 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. the ranine branches of the lingual arterj^ The nerves of the tongue are numerous, and are derived from the gusta- tory branch of the fifth which supplies the organ with the sense of taste, from the lingual which supplies the muscles, and from the glosso-pharyngeal, which is supposed by some to be also a nerve of taste, and has been more speci- fically named the nerve of bitter taste. The interior of the mouth is hned with mucous mem- brane, which is continuous externally with the integuments, and from thence passes inwards, covering the free margin of the lips, and their inner surface, as also that of the cheeks; it is thence reflexed on the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaw, passes between the teeth, covering the gums, and from the inner surface is reflexed on the hard palate above, the sublingual glands and muscles of the tongue below, from whence it is reflexed on the tongue itself, covering this organ as just described; from these parts it passes on to the velum towards the larynx, pharynx, posterior nares, and Eustachian tubes. In this course it forms several folds, the most remarkable of which are the fraenula labiorum, two folds which connect the upper and lower lips to the alveolar processes; the fraenum lingUEe, and the fraenum and frsenula of the epiglottis. The mucous membrane of the mouth is covered by squamous epithelium. The mouth communicates posteriorly with the pharynx, larynx, and posterior nares, by means of the isthmus fau- cium, the lateral boundaries of which are the pillars of the fauces and the tonsils. The pillars of the fauces are two crescentic folds of mucous membrane on each side, within which are muscular fibres. The anterior pillar descends from the edge of the velum forwards and outwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and incloses between its folds the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior fold descends backwards and outwards, and is lost on the lateral surface of the pharynx ; it incloses the palato-pharyngeus muscle. Ihese folds, from their possessing muscular fibres, are enabled to constrict or close the isthmus fauciura, hence they have been named by some constrictores isthmi faucium ; they can also compress the tonsil which Ues imbedded between them, and thus force out its secretion in the acts of mastication and deglutition. The palato-330 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. • pliaryngeus muscle can somewhat dilate the pharynx in the transverse direction. The tonsil or amygdala is lodged in the triangular interval between the pillars of the fauces. It is ovoid m shape, with the larger extremity turned upwards; it is composed of a congeries of mucous follicles, covered by mucous membrane. Its free surface is irregular, in con- sequence of the number of orifices of the mucous foUicles. Its outer surface rests against the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The tonsil receives its supply of blood chiefly from the tonsiUitic branch of the labial artery; its nerves are derived from the tonsiUitic plexus, formed by branches from the lingual, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympa- thetic nerves. The tonsils are subject to attacks of acute and chronic inflammation (cynanche tonsillaris). In the former case, matter frequently forms in the gland and requires to be let out in consequence of the uneasiness it produces, and also from the enlargement interfering with respiration and deglutition. Much caution shou d be ob- served in opening these abscesses, as the gland is closely related on its outer surface to the internal carotid artery. The instrument selected for the purpose should be directed backwards, or back- wards and inwards; if directed outwards the artery is in much danger,—a tonsil-lancet has been invented, and is by far the safest instrument. An emetic will often succeed in causing the abscess to burst. We have found scarification of the tonsil very bene- ficial in an early stage of inflammation for the ^0^. 1 ^J""^ assists in lessening the inflammation, and, should matter form, it more easily makes its way through either of the scarifications The tonsil becomes much enlarged after it has been subjected to repeated attacks of inflammation: it then forms a chrome swelUng, which distresses the patient much by imped ng he action of respiration and deglutition Not ""^^'l^'^ ^ hearing becomes impaired from the pressure of the tumour against the Eustachian tubes. Should local app ications be found insufiicient to produce the absorption of the swelling a Portion of it may be removed with a ligature, or the knife, or tonsil guil o- tine. Excision, although frequently practised mth success is not free from danger. If the surgeon determines on its/<l«Pt'°"'*^e gland should be carefully drawn fon^-ards from its deep relations by a tenaculum passed through it, or hooked forceps, and be carefullv removed by a bistoury or curved blunt-pointed scissors After the operation some styptic, such as a strong solution ot nitrate of silver, sulphate of zinc or copper, should be «iPP"f^ " the bleeding surface in order to check the hemorrhage, uiccrs occasionally form on the tonsil from acute, but more frequently from venereal inflammation.331 DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The glottis or superior opening of the larynx is situated immediately behind the root of the tongue and epiglottis, and beneath the velum. The relative position of this opening should be attentively considered, as it is sometimes found necessary to pass tubes through it into the larynx, for the purpose of artificially inflating the lungs. If some caution be not observed in the introduction of these instru- ments, it is evident that they may be passed down the pharynx and not into the larynx. To avoid this mistake, the tongue should be drawn forwards, so as to raise the epiglottis, and thus uncover the glottis; the instrument being then passed through the mouth, and guided by the fingers of the left hand, will descend into the larynx. Of late some physicians and surgeons have in- troduced various solutions into the larynx itself, chiefly of nitrate of silver, in diseases of this organ or of the trachea, by means of a bent probe and sponge, or by the aid of a small syringe. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. Behind the pharynx and larynx, and closely connected to the spine, are the deep muscles of the neck,— Longus colli. Rectus capitis anticus major. » >t ,, minor. And close to these on each side of the vertebree are found the following: Rectus capitis lateralis. Scalenus anticus. „ medius. „ posticus. The scaleni are of more importance from their surgical relations than from any other circumstance. On the anterior surface of the scalenus anticus muscle, we find the subclavian vein, the transversales colli and humeri arte ries, which cross the muscle transversely, and the phrenic nerve, which takes a perpendicular direction. Between the scalenus anticus and medius the subclavian artery and brachial ple.xus pass outwards. Occasionally, one of the branches of this plexus separates the scalenus medius and posticus. The outer edge of the scalenus Su muscle guides us to the subclavian artery, where it S Zlaiarlll;''- ""^^'^ ^« ''-"^^d th-f^! crotLl-'°°* " ^^"^"^ ^bove the clavicle.332 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. THE SUBCLAVIAN AKTERY. The subclavian arteries, like the carotids, differ on the right and left sides. Arteria suhclavia sinistra arises from the extreme left of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, oppo- site the left side of the second dorsal vertebra, and close to the origin of the left carotid; it thence ascends almost perpendicularly out of the thorax into the neck, turns outwards and passes behind the scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course the left subclavian artery lies deep, being covered by the cone of the left pleura and the apex of the left lung, -which he also a Httle to its outer side. Anterior to it are also the left par vagum, the left carotid, the left internal jugular vein and vena innominata, also the sternum, first rib, and clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, Bterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. Posterior to it are the spinal column, the longus colli muscle, the inferior cervical gangUon of the sympathetic and the thoracic duct; the oesophagus lies also behind it, but a httle to its right side. The left recurrent nerve hooks round the arch of the aorta, close to the origin of the left subclavian artery, and then ascends internal and posterior to it. Arteria suhclavia dextra arises from the arteria inno- minata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, ascends outwards, and passes, like the' left subclavian, behind the scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course, the right subclavian artery is much more super- ficial than the left; it is covered by the integuments, platysma, cervical fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, by small branches of veins and nerves, and by the conflux of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, which unite in front of it, but towards its outer part, to form the right vena innominata. It is more immediately invested by a dense layer of cellular substance or fascia, continuous inferiorly with the fibrous layer of the pericardium, and superiorly with the sheath of the carotid vessels. On removing a part of this, the subclavian artery is exposed between the conflux of the internal jugular and subclavian veins on the outer side, and the carotid artery on the inner side, forming a vascularSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 333 triangle before alluded to, the base being the subclavian artery: here the vessel is crossed by the par vagum and recurrent nerve, and the cardiac filaments of the sympa- thetic ; the phrenic nerve crosses the artery a little to the outer side of them, beneath the conflux of the internal jugu ar and subclavian veins. It is also sometimes crossed by the vertebral veins. Posterior to the artery, in this stage, are the inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve, the sympathetic and first dorsal nerves, the spinal column, and the longus colh muscle; more externally, it rests on the cone of the pleura. In the first stage only, as above described, the right and left subclavian arteries differ. The chief points of difference may be summed up as foUows; the right arises from the arteria innominata, the left from the arch of the aorta • the righ IS larger but shorter than the left, is more superfic al and takes a more transverse course, and differs in itsStTon' to the par vagum and vena innominata; the left only is related to the thoracic duct and oesophagus, and is more connected with the pleura. From Ihe fir t stage Tach artery passes almost horizontally outwards between the scaleni muscles and at the outer margin of the scalenus anticus, descends on the first rib, at the lower border of which It sinks beneath the clavicle, and terminate by becoming the axillary artery; it foms an arT convex The subclavian artery has been divided, for the purposes ^ten^t^th^"^''"^nF^= - extends i om the origin of the vessel to the inner border the lower margin of tL firsfrib "" '"^^'^"^ ^"^^^^ on^Srt^I^^Z:^:^^^^ -ery rests the brachial plexus lies abov a^d ' s '""^^^ .^^ P^^^ra ; of it are the integuments nw/ "',' ' ^^'^^t and scalenus anti^rZ def t the'"'^. sterno-mastoid this last-named nniscle the '"^'^'^^^ «f col,. „„, X? :r334 UEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. In its third stage the subclavian artery lies in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, bounded by the omo-hyoid muscle externally, the sterno-mastoid scalenus anticus muscles internally, and the clavicle inferiorly ; it is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and a quantity of cellular membrane, which contains several branches of the cervical and brachial plexus, the subclavian, external jugular, and other veins, and the transversales coUi and humeri arteries; it rests on the first rib, which separates it from the pleura; the brachial plexus lies above and posterior to it; the subclavian vein lies anterior and inferior to it. The subclavian arteries are improperly so called, as they are not beneath the clavicle in any part of their course, if we except a portion of the first stage of the left subclavian. OPEKATIONS ON THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery maybe tied in its first stage, if wounded here; also for the cure of aneurism, if in its second or third stages, or in cases of haemorrhage resulting from the operation of tying the vessel in these stages; or as has been lately recommended for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innominata, on the principle first laid down by Brasdor, and more lately advocated by Mr. Wardrop. To tie the artery in its first stage on the right side, place the patient in the horizontal posture, with his head gently supported by pillows, and turned towards the opposite side. Make an incision, about three inches in length, along and a httle above the cla\icle, commencing at its sternal end, from the inner extremity of which carry another upwards along the external margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle, to the extent of about two inches and a half; in these incisions, the integuments, platysma, and fascia are divided; raise a triangular flap so as to expose the lower part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, behind which pass a director and cut through it; the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are now exposed, with a few branches of the descendens noni nerve; they may be divided in like manner or drawn inwards. By a little farther dissection the right vena innominata is exposed, formed by the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian vems. Tear through some cellular substance and the artery will be brought into view, forming the base of the vascular triangle, as already described: draw the par vagura, recurrent, and sympa- thetic filaments to the inner (for if the par vagum be drawn externally the recurrent nerve is sure to be included in the ligature) side, depress the vena innominata towards the thorax, and pass tlie aneurism needle from below upwards, taking care to avoid the parts wliich lie behind the vessel. It is seldom that335 OPERATIONS ON THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. the phrenic nerve is exposed in performing this operation, as it lies either on or close to the scalenus anticus muscle. There is only a space of about three quarters of an inch between the origin of the subclavian artery and the part from whence it gives off its branches, where the vessel can be safely tied. The ligature should be applied about midway between these two points, or perhaps a little nearer its first branch, in order that as much space as possible may be left for the formation of an internal coagulum and the subsequent contraction of the vessel. Although the subclavian artery has now been frequently tied in its first stage, we regret to say, that no favorable case has yet occurred; nor, indeed, can we be surprised at this want of success, when we reflect upon the contiguity of the arteria inno- minata and -carotid arteries, upon the short space there is for the application of a ligature, and on the numerous important parts that are disturbed during the performance of the operation. It has been-suggested by Mr. Hayden to secure, at the same time, the common carotid, so as to cause the obliteration, if possible, of the artena innominata by securing its two branches; this is a valuable suggestion which has been acted upon in two instances The possibility of tying the left subclavian artery, in its first stage, has been, and is still, questioned; notwithstanding, we have no hesitation in giving it as our opinion that it is practicable, and tliat the difficulties are not of such a nature as should deter the surgeon from undertaking its performance, when such becomes necessai-y for saving the life of his patient. One great objection to Its trial IS that Sir A. Cooper attempted this operation, and was forced to abandon it. ' The subclavian ai-tery may be tied in its second stage for the cure of aneurism of the axillary artery, extending to the third stage of the subclavian. For this purpose (the patient being placed as in the preceding operation) make an incision of about three inches long, and a httle above the clavicle, commencing at a short distance from its sternal end; divide the integuments, platysma fascia, and clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle the last on the du-ector; the subclavian vein, transversalis colli 'and humeri arteries, and phrenic nerve are exposed on the anterior suri;ace of the scalenus anticus muscle. These several narts having been drawn out of the way, pass a director behind the scalenus anticus muscle and divide it; the subclavian artery will now be brought mto view; pass the aneurism needle from below upwards taking care to avoid the cone of the pleura, which E behind the artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. ThTdange If Jr^'f "^^^ '=°"n'«'-balanced by one advantage S that the subclavian vein ,s separated from the artery bv the sea' enus an icus muscle; this is not sufficient to induce the urireon Jhirdltagl'"'"'"''"" "''^•^ "-'^^y ^'^y -cm"d Ke The third stage of the subclavian artery is the most favonhlP fnr the application of the ligature; it is tied L aneJ^rof £eJ6 EEGIOKAL AND SUUGICAL ANATOMY. axillary artery or of the brachial artery high up. To secure it in this situation, place the patient in the horizontal position, wth the head and neck turned towards the opposite side, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible; make an incision along and a Uttle above the clavicle, commencing at the outer edge ot the sterno-mastoid muscle, or a little internal to the centre of the bone,and terminating near its acromial end; m this the integu- ments, platvsma, and a few of the supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus will be divided. A quantity of cellular tissue is now exposed, filling the posterior inferior triangle of the neck; in this are contained some branches of the cervical and brachial plexuses, lymphatic glands, and a number of small veins crossing from the posterior part of the neck to terminate in the external iueular vein, which lies close to the outer margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Tear through this cellular tissue, takmg care to avoid, if possible, the several parts just mentioned. In some subjects the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle en- croaches on the space, and will reqmre division. On continuing the dissection more deeply the omo-hymd muscle will be brought into view, crossing the upper part of .the space ; This being d?awn upwards, the subclavian vein and transversahs humeri artery will be exposed in the base of the triangle, and the tonsversahs colli ai-tery in its apex; separate these parts and expose the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle; pass he finger downwards along this, and it will thus be conducted to the subclavian artery, where it rests on the upper ^"^f^" of the fint rib As the brachial plexus lies m close contact with the artery Ti possible that one of its branches, and most hkely the cen ral one, from its running a long course before it joins the plexus, and from its proximity to the artery, may be mistaken for the sub- cla^an artery. Detach the artery from its surrounding con- neXns and pass the aneurism needle from below upwards and a little from within outwards. Should it be found diflicult to nass the needle in this direction (as it sometimes is from the To tion of the clavicle,) it may be passed in the contrair di- rection. In doing so, the subclavian vem should be caretuUy ThnSrlr oi l^ilj'ttSlar-artery in its third stage has been nt so tq^^^^^^^^ performed with success, that no question can be entertained as to the propriety of its adoption m aU cases in which it may be considered necessary. „„„„Hons even We may here observe that in the performance of all ope™^°°«; the smaller veins should be avoided, as the heemo rl^^ag w^^^^^ ensues from them when divided, by obscuring the arts, add much to the embarrassment of the surgeon. It ma> appear extra ordinary that a nerve should be mistaken for "Jterj but it should be recollected that the Wood discolours t e nene and that a pulsation is frequently communicated o ;t > tje an , under these circumstances the mistake is not at all an uniiKciy one, and has been more than once committed.VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 337 The principal branches of the subclavian artery are five in number, three of which are given olTfrom its first stage, viz. the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis,' and the remaining two in its second stage, viz. the cervi- calis profunda, and the superior intercostal. The branches which arise from its first stage are given ofi' from a very small portion of the artery near to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. Arteria vertebralis is, in general, the first and the largest branch of the subclavian, from the upper and pos- terior part of which it arises; from this it passes upwards, backwards, and a little outwards, sinks into a triangular fossa, between the longus colli on the inner, and the scalenus anticus muscle on the outer side, and enters the toramen in the transverse process of the sixth or fifth cervical vertebra, sometimes that of the fourth, but very rarely of the seventh. It then ascends in the foramina of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebree, anterior to the spmal nerves, until it has passed through the foramen of the vertebra dentata; it here bends outwards, passes through the toramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it then becomes horizontal, winds backwards around the occipito- atlantoidean articulation, enters a triangular space formed by the recti postici muscles posteriorlv, the superior oblique superiorly, and the inferior oblique inferiorly; it then runs upwards and inwards in a groove on the upper surface of the atlas, and perforates the posterior occipito-atlantoideau ligament, sometimes above, sometimes below the sub- occipital nerve; the artery thence ascends forwards and inwards through the foramen magnum, enters the cavity of the cranium, and at the inferior margin of the pons varolii unites with the vertebral artery of the opposite side, to form the basilar artery. ' In the neck the vertebral artery gives off some branches ot minor importance to the surrounding muscles; a few pass from it, which, conducted by the spinal nerve , enteT the spinal canal to supply the spinal marrow. On enter- ing the cranium, the vertebral gives off a few branches to the dura mater, also the arteria cerehelli inferior, and ti e artenae medulte spinalis, anterior and posterior. Arteria cerebdli inferior sometimes arises from tl,e basilar arterv runs backwards and downwards between the par vagum and 15KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 338 spinal accessory nerves, to supply the inferior and posterior parts of the cerebelhiin. Arterice medullce spinalis, anterior and posterior, consist of two on each side, one in front and one behind, which descend on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the spinal marrow, to its inferior extremity, anastomosing freely with each other and with branches distributed to the spinal marrow, from tlie vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. The anterior spinal arteries soon unite into a single trunk, but the posterior branches run down separately. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries, ascends in a groove on the anterior sur- face of the pons varolii, bound down by the arachnoid and pia mater, and between the sixth pair of nerves, and at its upper extremity near to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone, divides into its four terminating branches, two to either side, viz., the arterise cerebelli superiores and arterise cerebri posteriores. Arteria cerebelli superior vel anterior, on each side, winds back- wards and outwards round the upper part of the pons varohi to supply the upper surface of the cerebellum, the tubercula quadri- gemina, &c. A small branch from it frequently enters the meatus auditorius internus between the portio dura and portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves. Arteria cerebri posterior, larger than the preceding, winds back- wards and outwards around the crus cerebri to supply the posterior lobe of the cerebrum. Between these two last-described arteries the third pair of nerves invariably passes out. Shortly after its origin, the posterior artery of the cere- brum is joined by the posterior communicating branch of the internal carotid, and thus the circle of Wilhs is formed ; this, which is an heptagon rather than a circle, is completed in front by the anterior arteries of the cerebrum and the anterior communicating branch, on each side by the posterior communicating arteries, posteriorly by the posterior arteries of the cerebrum. The vertebral artery, from its peculiar course, is almost precluded from any surgical interference. The left vertebral, however, sometimes arises from the arch of the aorta, between the left carotid and left sub- clavian arteries: it then ascends into the neck, and fre- quently does not enter the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrije, until it arrives oppositeVERTEBRAL ARTERY. 339 the second or third. Under such circumstances, it may be mistaken for the left carotid. ^ 2. Arteria mammaria interna arises from the lower part of the subclavian artery, nearly opposite the vertebral It passes downwards and forwards behind the phrenic nerve, and then enters the cavity of the thorax to the outer side of the nerve. It he're descends along the outer margin of the anterior mediastinum, behind the sternal extremity of the costal cartilages, and covered by the tnaoguiaris sterni muscle and ple^ur^, until il a rives at he diaphragm; it here enters the sheath of the rectus "uscle'rrfr",/' ''""-^ surface of the muscle, and finally arrives opposite the umbilicus, where artery""? 1. ^^^^^T'""^ "^^^ deep epigast^ cS'arteH ^l'''. anteni-inter- costal aiteries, which supply the anterior part of the five superior intercostal spaces, and anastomose^wilh he in^ oranclies wiiich supply the fat and cellular tissue in the antenor mediastinum and the thymus ^knd \TiT f. a smaU b.a.eh named comes nelT^lt-cf :^^'^^^^^ whi^i^ f namSrS through this anastomosis. '"^'P'^ Wood th';cS iz t:^' r-^^^ «f of the subclavian artTry k '"PPf' Part and, after a short 0 S,' 1^3 slnt'T''' "r^^'^^' thyroidea inferior, cervicdis asceVdens t and transversahs humeri arter'es " ' ^ransversalis colli, "p^'St^Zr:£lZSlJ^^^ behind the ^-..pathetic nerve, on i,:'^^^ ^^^^^^^340 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. duct, and in front of the longus colli muscle, arrives at the side of the trachea and oesophagus, sends branches to these tubes, la joined bv the recurrent nerve, and enters the posterior surface of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, ^^■here it ramifies anasto- mosing with the superior thyroid artery from the external carotid, and the arteries of the opposite side. ^rteria cervicalis ascendens, is a sraaU branch ; it passes upwards alouK the origin of the scaleni muscles, and terminates by sending branches to the surrounding muscles, and anastomosing with descending branches from the occipital, sterno-mastoid, and vertebral arteries. _ . . xu. Jrteria transversalis colli vel scapularis posterior is m general tde largest branch of the thyroid axis. It bends outwards, in front of "the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, crosses the apex ot the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, runs between the b anche of the brachial plelus, and enters the posterior superior triangle, where it terminates by dividing into two branches, the cervicalis superficialis, and the scapularis posterior. Thrcervicalis s^cperficialis divides into ascending and descending branches which supplv the glands, cellular tissue, and nerves in he po t;rr superior triangle of the neck and the surrouiidmg musck t^^ey anastomose above with descending branches from roccipitlTartery, and below witfe the branches of the supra- T^l^^^erior is rather t^e continued trunk o^he ^^^^^^^ versalis colli artery ; it winds round the side alone- the nosterior border of the scapula, under cover ot tiie 1 vatm anguirscapute, trapezius and rhomboid muscles, to which and the ad^oiiiink muscles, it gives off numerous branches: it ^nally^S^s at fl^e infermr angle o^^J^f^^^^^^ jTe^a-transversalis Humeri vel ^-Pr''ScapuMr- fe^^^^^ border of the scapula, where the nerve i general the notch beneath the ligament, and the ^';^„4e3 suprascapular artery enters tlie -P-P~ os^^ Tl e ae' -^- to the supraspinatus "lu cle, descends benea process behind the surgical neck -1?" Irrous branches in tlie infraspinous fossa, by dividing into J which suppi; the infraspinatus and teres minor ii u cle^, and anastomosing with branches from the posterior scapular ana subscapular arteries. , „nn-atred in the The transversalis colli and humeri arteries are engaged >" operations of tying the subclavian artery m i s secomln^^ thi d stages. The free anastomoses maintained bj them \muiSUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 341 other, and with the subscapular and occipital arteries, serre to re-establish the circulation in the axillary and brachial arteries when the subclavian artery has been tied. The transversalis col'li or humeri may arise from the third stage of the subclavian. The subclavian artery gives oflf in its second stage the following: Arteria cervicalis profunda passes backwards from the upper part of the subclavian artery, between the trans- verse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, ascends between the spinous and transverse processes of the vertebrae, supplies the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral and occipital arteries. This artery, in most cases, is given off from the superior intercostal. Arteria intercostdlis superior descends from the lower part of the subclavian artery in front of the neck of the first nb, to the outer side of the first dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic, then in front of the second and third ribs, and opposite each intercostal space sends off a branch, which passes outwards between the two layers of inter- costal muscles, to which and the neighbouring muscles and the pleura it sends branches, and terminates by anas- tomosing with the intercostal arteries from the descending aorta, and with the external thoracic arteries. The let^ superior intercostal artery seldom supplies more than the two superior intercostal spaces. The third stage of the subclavian artery seldom gives off any branch. It is the best situation for tiie appli- cation of pressure, when it becomes necessary to command the circulation of the axiUary artery in amputation of the .shoulder-joint. THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES are connected to the upper posterior and outer part of the 411' J ^T" and numerous muscles. The examination of each extremity may be comprised under the heads of the axillary or scapulo thoracic brachial, anti-brachial, and palmar'regions. ^ Th.-oi^S hese several regions, we have the subclavian arte y co tinuing Its course, under the separate heads of aJuhi y and brachial artery, until it arrives opposite the corono d342 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, process, where it terminates in the radial and ulnar arteries. AXILLARY OR SCAPULO-THORACIC REGION. Under this head is included the axillary cavity, with its different boundaries, viz., anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior. The axillary cavity is a conical or pyramidal-shaped space, formed between the scapula and trunlc. It is bounded anteriorly by the pectoralis major and minor muscles; posteriorly by the scapula, subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles; internally by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus ; and externally by the neck of the humerus. Its apex, turned upwards, corresponds to the coracoid process of the scapula, its base or floor directed downwards, is formed by the axillary fascia. On stripping the integuments from tlae floor of the axilla, a dense fascia (the axillary fascia) is brought into view, attached in front to the edge of the pectoralis major muscle, behind to the lower margin of the latissimus dorsi, lost internally on the outer surface of the thoracic parietes, and externally continuous with the brachial aponeurosis. This fascia, although liable to much variety, is in general strong and well marked; it connects the walls of the axilla together, and assists in preserving the contents of the axillary cavity from pressure. It has much importance in practice, as it has the effect of resisting aneurisoial or other tumours and abscesses, from making their way inferiorly; these, therefore, press upwards, and are frequently found to ascend into the neck, causing displacement of the clavicle, forcing backwards the scapula, and resembling diseases of the cervical region; not unfrequently axillary abscesses open in the neck above the clavicle, or in the smaU triangular space below this bone, and between the pectoraUs major and deltoid muscles. On removing this fascia, the axillary cavity is found to be filled with a quantity of fat and cellular tissue, in which are lodged numerous lymphatic glands, with the axillary vessels and nerves, and their principal branches. The nerves of Wrisberg are first met with ; they cross the floor of the axilla, proceeding from the second and third inter- costal nerves, and are lost in the integuments of the inside of the arm, as far down as the inner condyle. The cellular tissue of the axilla communicates freely with that of the neck, by means of a triangular opening between theAXILLARY REGION. 343 clavicle, first rib, and scapula; by means of this, diseases of one regiou spread rapidly to the other, as may be ob- served in aneurisms, abscesses, emphysema, &c. The lymphatic glands of the axilla communicate with those of the arm and thoracic parletes, and more especially of the mammary gland in the female; hence, when the latter structure is attacked with cancer, or other malignant disease, the morbid action is conveyed by means of the lymphatics to the axillary glands ■ these become specifically affected, and will require removal together with the diseased breast. In doing so the greatest caution IS necessary, as the axilla is surrounded on all sides except Its inner, by large and important vessels; thus, on the outer wall, the axillary vessels and nerves are placed; alone its anterior wall, close to the margin of the pectoralis minor muscle IS the thoracica longa, or external mammary artery, and alonj? its posterior wall near the lower margin of the subscapularis muscle, IS the subscapularis artery. It is evident, then, that in making an incision into this cavity for the removal of enlarged glands directly inwards. The same rule should be observed in opening abscesses. When the cavity has been exposed, the knife may he laid aside and the diseased glands be isolated by the fingers or a director, and then be forcibly torn away from the cavity^ SoLe glands but this IS objectionable on account of the hsemorrhaSe which frequently t_akes place, and as they retract into the cSlukr issue are secured with difficulty; some have advocated X gature of the arteries of the vessels of the glands, to produce a neceS^J P""''' *«diou\ pai;ifulf and un! Remove the cellular tissue and glands, and the bounda- ries of the axillary cavity wiU be exposed. The anterior waU of the axilla is formed by the pectoral muscles. On raising the integuments and cellular tissue, a triangular space is exposed between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, Mith the base above at the clavicl and the apex below, lost in the cellular substance which connect these muscles interiorly. Into this triangular space, t^e ceXlL vein dips to unite with the axillary vein. MoreTeplv seated in this triangular space are fh^ nr..! ^ ligament, thoracica fcromiaUs artery ^he .x iT '^'r^"' and vein, and plexus of nerves. In tWs space h'^ 'n''^ iiisrr:^i:Li;dr^^»--—KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 344 the sternum, and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, crosses in front of the axillary cavity, then sinks behind the deltoid muscle to be inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove, where it crosses the axilla; the sternal portion of the muscle passes behind the clavicular. This muscle with the latissimus dorsi, by their spasmodic contraction, may cause dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, particularly when the arm is raised from the side. In fracture of the neck of the humerus it also serves to displace the fractured ends of the tones. For this reason, in the treatment of such an accident, the muscle should be made as relaxed as possible by approximating the arm to the side. When making an examination of a cancerous breast, to ascertain whether the disease has extended to the muscular fibres, the arm should be separated from the side, so as to make this muscle tense. If we adduct the arm the muscle will move freely on the surface of the chest, together with the adherent diseased mass, and thus a wrong diagnosis may be formed. Beneath the pectoralis major lies the pectoralis minor, extending from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, to be inserted into the inner edge of the coracoid process. In fractures of the neck of the scapula it tends to separate the fractured extremities of the bone. It crosses the axillary artery, and thus produces a division of this vessel into three stages. Beneath and a little below the clavicle lies the subclavius muscle. This arises from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle, as far as the interval between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. In fractures of the clavicle this muscle tends to draw the outer portion downwards and inwards. On cutting across the pectoralis minor muscle, and removing some cellular tissue, the axillary artery, vein, and nerves are exposed. THE AXILLARY ABTERY commences at the lower margin of the first rib, from which it passes downwards, outwards, and backwards, across the axiUa and along the inner and upper part of the arm, until it arrives at the lower margin of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, where it becomes brachial. In this course it forms a curve, the convexity of which is turned upwards and outwards. It is closelyAXILLARY ARTEEY. 345 accompanied by the axillary or brachial plexus of nerves, and the axillary vein or veins which obscure it from view. For the purpose of description the axillary artery is divided into three stages by the lesser pectoral muscle. In Its first stage the artery lies above that muscle, and is covered by the great pectoral and a dense fascia, (the costo- coracoid hgament,) which stretches across the artery, as it passes from the cartilage of the first rib to be implanted into the under surface of the clavicle and coracoid process; It rests on the first layer of intercostal muscles and the second digitation of the serratus magnas. The brachial plexus lies behind it, and to its acromial side, the axillary vein anterior and internal to it. The second stage of the axillary artery is that portion of the vesse which lies behind the pectoralis minor; it here crosses the axillary cavity, and is surrounded by cellular tissue and the brachial plexus of nerves, the median branch ot which has the artery passing between its two heads. Here a number of veins, rather than one large vein, cover the artery lying ,n front and rather to the inner side, and It IS covered by both pectoral muscles. Ihe third stage of the axillary artery extends from the lower edge of the pectoralis minor to the inferior ed-e of the latissimus dorsi and teres major tendons. Here the Zu^L \ u'^T '^^^^^^^on of the subscapularis mt scle; and below this, on the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, a plexus of veins covers it, as in ire '!rt l';""^'' °f the brachial plexus are related to it as follows: to its outer side are the median and external cutaneous; to its inner, the internal and cZmfl "^""'^ '^'""^^''^ musculo-spira and circumflex nerves. Sometimes the artery in this stno-e hes between the roots of the median nerve, o"e of wh d stages only"L"lh7 '"'"^ third operation of tyin- the IZTr ! ^ situations; the performed as foUowsT ^ ^" ^^^age is, 15 §346 KEGIONAL AND SURGTCAL ANATOMY. Place the patient in the recumbent posture; make a semilunar incision, concave upwards, through the integuments below the clavicle, and extending from near the sternal end of the clavicle, outwards towards the acromion process; the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major will thus be exposed, divide this, taking care to avoid the cephalic vein andthethoracica-acromialis artery; separate the edges of the wound, and the costo-clavicular ligainent with the upper edge of the pectoralis minor will be brought into view; divide the former on a director, and depress the latter; tear through some cellular tissue and the artery will be exposed, having the vein anterior and internal to it, and the brachial plexus above and behind it; isolate the artery, and pass the aneurism- needle from within outwards. "We have no hesitation in stating that this operation should not be performed in preference to that of tying the subclavian artery in its third stage. It is both diflncult and dangerous in performance, and not so likely, from the number of parts disturbed, to be as successful as the other. Some have advised the artery to be compressed here during the performance of amputation of the shoulder-joint. Surgeons have long abandoned this practice, preferring to apply pressure on the subclavian artery, where it crosses the first rib. In wounds of this artery, in the first or second stage, Mr. Guthrie recommends a transverse section of the pectoral muscles, and that the artery should be tied both above and below the seat of injury. The axillary artery, in its third stage, may be tied very easily as follows: place the patient in the recumbent position, raise the arm from the side, make an incision in the line of the artery, about three inches in length, through the integuments and fascia, and opposite the head of the humerus, between the two folds of the axilla, but a little nearer the posterior one; tear cautiously through some cellular tissue, and the plexus of veins, with the branches of the brachial plexus of nerves, will be exposed, con- ceahng the arter)'; carefully separate these parts, and isolate the vessel- pass the aneurism-needle from behind forwards. The median nerve is not unfrequently in front of the artery here, and some caution is therefore necessary in making our first incision. Bending of the elbow-joint, so as to relax the nerves, and permit of the more easy separation from the artery, will be found useful. The branches of the axillary artery are as follows: I Thoracica acromialis, From its first stage -j^ suprema. J Arteries glandulares, „ second stage -j^ Thoracica longa vel mammaria externa. J Suhscapularis, „ third stage | circumflexa anterior et posterior. The thoracica acromialis is a short axis, of considerable size which arises from the anterior part of the axillaryAXILLAEY AETERY. 347 artery; it immediately passes forwards above the superior edge of the pectoraHs minor, and divides into numerous branches, which pass to the supply of the surrouudino- muscles, and anastomose externally with the circumflex' superior profunda, and suprascapular arteries, internally and inferiorly with the mammary and intercostal arteries ; one branch, remarkable from its course, descends in the fissure between the pectoralis major and deltoid, in which the cephalic vein ascends; in general it lies behind the vein, at least at its upper part. The arteria thoracica suprema is small, and runs inwards along the upper margin of the pectoralis minor muscle to which and the pectoralis major it gives branches, anasto- mosmg with the mammary and intercostal arteries. The arteries glandulares are small branches which some- times arise by a common trunk (the thoracica alaris), and are distributed to the glands, cellular tissue, and muscular parietes of the axilla. They are generally little offsets from ttie other axillary branches. The thoracica longa vel mammaria externa is a laro-e and regular branch which runs forwards, along the inferior margin of the pectoralis minor, under cover of the -reat pectoral muscle, to the parietes of the chest, the pectoral serratus magnus, and intercostal muscles, the mammar^ gland &c. It supphes these parts and anastomoses with tbe other thoracic, intercostal, and subscapular arteries. In operating upon the axilla, or extirpating the mammary Hand the course of this vessel should be attended to, for, if wounded it pours out a large quantity of blood, as it becomes much increased in size in diseases attacking these parts. '""tasea The arteria subscapularis is generally the largest anrl most regular branch of the axillary, from the posterior and mner part of which it arises opposite the lower ed-e of the subscapularis muscle, concealed by some veins and branches of the brachial plexus of nerves irrun, wards and backwards along the axilTary border ot X" scapula, accompanied by the subscapular nerve and vein and after a short course divides into two branches antIS and posterior. The anterior branch smallp. . in the direction of the parent tr^nS^iZf rivT inferior ang e of the scapula, where it divides ii lo seveml branches, which supply the teres major, latissimurdor^IREGIONAL AND SUBGICAL ANATOMY. 348 serratus magnus, and subscapularis muscles, and anasto- moses with the terminating branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The posterior branch passes backwards, accompanied by a part of the nerve, through a triangular opening bounded in front by the long head of the triceps, below by the teres major, and above by the edge of the subscapularis, to which it sends branches, winds round the inferior costa of the scapula, and gains its dorsum, where it terminates iu the infra- spinous fossa, by sending brandies to the infra-spinatus muscle, and anastomoses with the terminating branches of the suprascapular artery. When operating in the axilla, this artery should be particularly avoided. The free anastomosis of the vessels about the axilla, between the scapular, thoracic, intercostal, and mammary arteries, is of much service in restoring the cu'culation when the subclavian or axillary artery has been tied. The arteria circumflexa posterior proceeds backwards from the axillary artery, close to the origin of the subsca- pularis artery, through a quadrilateral space, bounded above by the teres minor, below by the teres major, \\\ front by the neck of the humerus, and behind by the long head of the triceps; it then winds round the neck of the humerus, and is lost chiefly in the deltoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery, and with branches from the superior profunda and superior scapular arteries. This artery is accompanied throughout, by the circumflex nerve, a branch of the brachial plexus. In fracture of the neck of the humerus, and dislocation mto the axilla, this artery may he ruptured, and may pour out a large quantity of blood into the axillary cavity. A portion of the coaRula, passing between the broken ends of the bones in Irac- tures, is said to have the effect of preventing their reunion. In these accidents the corresponding nerve is frequently "iJU'ed, giving rise to a temporary or permanent paralysis of tlie deitom muscle, varying according to the extent of the injury. The arteria circumflexa anterior is smaller than the preceding, and frequently arises from it, or from tlie sub- scapular artery; it passes forwards and outwards, then winds round the anterior surface of the neck of tlie humerus, close to the bone, and behind the coraco- brachialia and biceps muscles, supplying branches to theBRA.CHIAL REGION. 349 neighbouring parts, more especially the deltoid muscle. An ascending branch proceeds from it along the bicipital groove, to supply the synovial membrane of the shoulder- joint. THE BRACHIAL REGION extends from the termination of the axilla to the elbow- joint, and comprises the greater part of the humerus, the brachial muscles, vessels, and nerves. On raising the integuments from oflF this region, some cellular tissue is brought into view, commonly called the superficial fascia. In it are contained some superficial veins and nerves; thus, on the outer side we find the cephaUc vein, and on the inner side the basihc. The superficial nerves are the internal cutaneous, small internal cutaneous, and intercostal humeral internally; on the outer side, is a cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Beneath these super- ficial parts, the muscles and deep-seated vessels and nerves of the arm are inclosed in a layer of fascia, named the brachial aponeurosis or fascia of the arm. This is much less dense than that which invests the forearm, and is in general but badly marked on the outer and posterior surface of the arm; internally, however, where it covers the brachial vessels and nerves, it is tolerably strong. It is attached superiorly and posteriorly to the spine of the scapula and infraspinatus muscles, from whence it de- scends, receiving an accession of fibres from the insertion ot the deltoid muscle ; internaUy it is continuous with the fascia, which forms the floor of the axilla, and is also attached to the tendons of the pectoralis major and latis- simus dorsi muscles. As the brachial aponeurosis de- scends It becomes increased in strength, and serves to nnd dowu the vessels, muscles, and nerves; towards the lower part of the arm it receives an addition of fibres from the coraco-brachialis muscle, and finally becomes impLuited in to the internal and external intei-muscular septa, bi^means of which It IS attached to the condyles of the humeri™ faceVrZ^ '1"'^ aponeurosis from the inner'sur- Sic SeZks:? xr'^„f.jrs-r :srE:350 REGIONAL AND SUfiGICAL ANATOMY. THE BUACHIAL ARTERY, the continuation of the axillary, commences at the lower margin of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles ; it passes downwards, forwards, and outwards, lying first on the inner surface of the arm, then on its anterior surface; then descends below the joint of the elbow, where it sinks into a triangular fossa, and terminates, opposite the coro- noid process of the ulna, by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries. In this course it is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the integuments and fascia. In the middle of the arm it is a little overlapped, at least in strong muscular subjects, by the inner edge of the biceps muscle; at the bend of the elbow it is more deeply seated, and is covered by a strong aponeurosis (the semilunar fascia), derived from the tendon of the biceps muscle; it is here also a little overlapped by the pronator radii teres muscle. In the upper part of the arm the brachial artery rests on the muscLilo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery, which separate it from the triceps muscle. In the middle third it rests on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and in the remainder of its course on the bracliialis anticus muscle. In the first part of its course the brachial artery lies posterior to the coraco-brachialis muscle, between it and the triceps; but, as it descends, it gets in front of the former, and lies between the biceps and triceps. In the lower part of its course it is separated from the latter muscle by the internal inter-muscular ligament. Two vense comites, one on each side, accompany the brachial artery, occasionally, also, the basihc vein runs in the course of the artery, but superficial to the fascia, as far as the axiUa. The median nerve accompanies the brachial artery throughout; at first the nerve lies to its outer side, but as it descends it crosses the artery, passing in general super- ficial to, but sometimes behind it, and gets to its inner side. The external cutaneous nerve lies, for a short distance, to the outer side of the brachial artery near to its commencement, but soon leaves it to perforate the coraco-brachialis muscle. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the brachial artery above, but, as it descends,REGION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 351 it is separated from the vessel, passing down with the inferior profunda artery, behind the internal inter-muscular ligament and internal condyle. The internal cutaneous nerve, the nerves of TFrisberg, and the cutaneous nerve of Soemmering descend parallel, but superficial, to the brachial artery. The relations of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow are of so much importance that we shall subjoin a distinct description and its relative anatomy here under the head of the REGION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Upon removing the integuments which cover the upper third of the forearm, on its anterior surface, several super- hcial veins and nerves are exposed contained in the superficial tascia. The veins are, on the inner side the basilic, on the outer side the cejjhalic, and in the centre the median vein with Its two superficial branches, the median-cephalic and the median-basilic. The basilic vein arises from the inner side of the hand and little finger; ascends along the ulnar or inner side of the forearm on its anterior surface; receives numerous branches from the front and back part of the forearm • passes upwards in front of the internal condyle, where it receives the median basilic vein ; it ascends along the inner surface of the arm, paraUel, but superficial, to the brachial artery; and about the middle of the arm, but frequently above this point, and sometimes as high up as the axilla perforates the brachial aponeurosis to join the vense comites or axiUary vein. The branches that unite to form this vein are by many now named anterior and posterior ulnar veins» hJ^%''2^f''7^''' commences about the thumb and back of the hand; ascends on the anterior surface of the forearm and along its radial side; receiving^^ as ft passes upwards, several branches; then passes forwards n ftlt of the externa condyle, where it receives the medhn cephalic vem ; it runs along the outer side nf fl, f muscle, and finally, ascending in the Joove wl tb axillary vein. \his vein i:^;rg:t^^^^^352 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. described as formed by the anterior and iiosterior radial veins. The median vein commences on the anterior surface of the wrist by means of small branches from the palm of the hand; ascends in the forearm, between the basilic and cephalic veins ; and at a short distance below the elbow, terminates by dividing into three branches, the median- cephalic, the median-basilic, and the deep median vein : of these the median-basilic ascends inwards, in front of the semilunar fascia of the biceps and the brachial artery to join the basilic vein ; the median-cephalic ascends out- wards to join the cephalic vein; and the deep median sinks deep and joins one of the venae comites. These veins are accompanied by branches from the internal cuta- neous and external cutaneous nerves. When about to perform the operation of venesection, at the bend of the elbow, foiu- veins present themselves, viz.,thebasiUc, cephalic, median-basilic, and median-cephalic. Of these the median-basilic is most superficial, and would be selected but for its relation to the brachial artery, being only separated from this vessel by the semilunar fascia of the biceps. So great, therefore, is the risk of wounding the artery here, that the inexperienced practitioner at least should always" prefer some other of the veins: of these the median-cephalic or liasilic is to be preferred, the cephahc being objectionable on account of its rolUug too freely beneath the point of the lancet. On removing the superficial fascia, the semilunar fascia of the biceps and the fascia of the forearm are exposed. The former is derived from the anterior surface of the tendon of the biceps a little above the bend of the elbow, ■whence it descends inwards, taking a curved course towards the internal condyle, into which, and the fascia of the forearm, its fibres are implanted. The superior edge of this fascia is distinct, concave, seldom reaching as high as the level of the inner coudyle, is directed upwards and inwards, and inferiorly is lost in the fascia of the forearm. This fascia then may be observed to cross the brachial artery, passing between it and the median-basilic vein, and hence serves as a partial protection to the artery, in venesection. From the resistance of this fascia, a circumscribed aneurism is generally formed at the bena of the elbow, when the brachial artery is wounded here. We may have, however, the other forms of aneurismREGION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 353 consequeut upou venesection, viz., diffused aneurism, aneurismal varLx, and varicose aneurism. Beneath tlie semilunar fascia of the biceps, the brachial artery sinks into a deep triangular fossa, situated imme- diately below and in front of the elbow-joint, bounded above by the brachialis anticus muscle, externally by the supinator radii longus, and internally by the pronator radii teres. The median nerve and biceps tendon accom- pany the artery into this fossa, the nerve lying to its inner, the tendon to its outer side. Operations on the brachial artery.—The brachial artery may be tied with facility in any part of its course. It is most frequently the subject of operation for the cure of aneurisms at the bend of the elbow, the result of careless venesection. Should the disease be a circumscribed aneurism, the artery may be tied in the middle of the arm; but if it be a diffused aneurism, the tumour should be cut into, the coagula be reuioved, and the artery tied above and below the orifice in its coats. Some recommend this operation to be performed for circumscribed aneurism also; or, at least, that the artery should be tied immediately above the tumour. Of the three proposed methods for the cure of circum- scribed aneurism, the last is preferable, and is easiest of perform- ance. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism seldom require an operation. The brachial artery may be tied in the middle of the arm in the fol- lowing manner: Place the patient in the recumbent posture, with the arm abducted and rotated outwards ; make an incision, about three inches long, in a line with the inner edge of the biceps muscle, through the integuments and superficial fascia, taking care to avoid the superficial veins and nerves; cut through the brachial aponeurosis on a director, and proceed to separate the artery from the median nerve, and the ven£e comites; this being accomplished, the artery is to be secured in the usual manner. Before proceeding to the operation of tying the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow for the cure of aneurism, by cutting into the aneurismal tumour, and then securing the vessel above and below the wound in its coats, the circulation in the Hmb may be commanded by the tourniquet, applied at some distance above the elbow This being done, an incision is to be made, about three inches m length, over the course of the artery, commencing It a little above the level of the internal condyle, and carrying it downwards and outwards. In this the integuments and Super- ficial fascia are divided, and most prol)ably some of the suoerficial veins, which should be avoided as much a's possible The semi- lunar fascia being now cut through, the aneurismal sac may be opened into ; remove the coagula from its interior, and proceed to look for the artery and particularly that part of it which has been wounded. This is sometimes a difficult task, in consequeuceREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, 354 of the presence of fibrinous coagula, which are matted together and conceal the artery, or even may be mistaken for the artery itself. Under these circumstances, the tourniquet should he slackened, when the blood will escape from the wound in the artery, and thus point out its situation. The artery being now separated from the surrounding parts, the aneurism needle armed with a double thread is to be passed beneath it; the needle being withdrawn, one thread is to be tied around the vessel above, the other below the wound in its coats, and the edges of the wound brought together in the usual way. As the brachial artery frequently divides, high up in the arm, into the radial and ulnar arteries, it may happen that the operator, in performing either of the preceding operations, will meet with two vessels running parallel, or may possibly meet with but one, and that, perhaps, the vessel which does not require the ligature. This vrill point out to the surgeon the necessity of ascertaining, by compressing it between his fingers previously to tying the vessel, whether the vessel he is about to tie, commands the circu- lation in the aneurismal tumour. Should it do so the arterj- may at once be tied; if not, another vessel exists which must he secured. It may be necessary to tie both vessels, as they not un- frequently communicate by means of a transverse branch in their course down the arm, which will render the tying of one vessel only, perfectly useless. The branches of the brachial artery are the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotica magna. The arteria profunda superior is the first and largest branch of the brachial, from the posterior part of which it arises, a little below the tendon of the teres major; then descends backwards and outwards, winds around the posterior surface of the humerus, between the second and third head of the triceps, and accompanied by the musculo- spiral nerve ; and about the middle of the arm divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. The posterior branch, smaller, passes downwards and backwards through the substance of the triceps muscle to the outer and back part of the elbow, where it terminates in numerous branches, which anastomose in the substance of the anconeus, with the posterior recurrent interosseous artery, and with the other arteries about the elbow-joint. The anterior or musculo-spiral branch descends with (but behind) the musculo-spiral nerve, in the groove on the anterior surface of the arm, between the supinator radii longus and extensor carpi radialis muscles on the outer side, and the brachialis anticus on the inner side, as far as the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery. In its course the superior profunda artery gives ofi"REGION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 355 several branches to the surrounding muscles; some of these ascend to the deltoid muscle to anastomose with the circumflex arteries, others descend in the triceps and brachialis anticus, and keep up an anastomosis with the various branches of the radial, ulnar, and interosseous recurrent arteries about the elbow-joint. The arteria profunda inferior generally arises opposite the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; runs down- wards, backwards, and inwards, through the internal intermuscular ligament imbedded in the substance of the triceps muscle, and accompanied by the ulnar nerve, which lies to its inner side, or posterior to it, to the fossa between the internal condyle and olecranon process, where it terminates by anastomosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. Arteria anastomotica magna arises in the lower third of the arm, descends along the anterior surface of the brachiahs anticus to the elbow-joint, where it terminates by anastomosing with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery m tront of the internal condyle, and with the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, between the mternal condyle and olecranon process. Ihe brachial artery, besides the preceding gives off the arteria nutritia humeri, which perforates the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, enters the substance of the humerus desceuds obliquely, and supplies the cancelli and medul- lary membrane of the bone. In amputation of the arm the situation of the branches ot the brachial artery should be borne in mind, as thev frequently require to be tied, especially where any disease of the elbow-joint has existed for some time previously in which case all the arteries of the limb become much increased in size. The anastomoses around the elbow-ioint between the vessels of the arm and forearm, are so ibun- dant as to restore the circulation to the latter part whenREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMV. 356 THE ANTI-BEACHIAL REGION extends from the elbow to the wrist-joint, and comprises the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm. Beneath the integuments on the anterior surface of this region we meet with the superficial veins and nerves de- scribed with the preceding. On raising these, the deeper- seated parts are found to be invested by a layer of dense aponeurotic structure, the fascia of the forearm. This is weaker on the anterior than on the posterior surface of the forearm. Superiorly it is attached to the condyles of the humerus, and to tbe muscles which arise from these eminences; it is also attached to the biceps in front, the triceps behind ; from these it descends and invests the muscles of the forearm, between which it sends in pro- cesses or septa, which divide them from one another, and afford to most of them points of origin. It is attached laterally to the radius and ulna, and inferiorly becomes connected with the annular ligaments of the wrist, the posterior of which appears to be formed altogether by it. The fibres of the fascia of the forearm run in different directions, and interlace much. This fascia is sometimes the seat of inflammation either idiopathic or symptomatic; it is attended with violent pain, owing to the resistance of the fibrous structure of which it is composed. Should the inflammation not yield to the usual antiphlogistic remedies, the fascia should be divided by a free incision; the tension being thus removed, the sufferings of the patient will be much lessened, and the inflammation will gradually subside. When matter has formed beneath the fascia, the same plan of treatment becomes necessary. On removing the fascia from the forearm, the muscles, vessels, and nerves of this region will be easily exposed by a very little further dissection. The principal vessels met with here are the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. As the first of these is the most superficial, we shall first proceed to it. ARTERIA RADIALIS. We have already said that the brachial artery bifurcates opposite the coronoid process of tlie ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries. The former of these, although the smallest, runs more in the direction of the parent trunk.ARTERTA RADIALIS, 357 From its origin the radial artery descends along the radial side of the forearm to tiie wrist nearly parallel with a line drawn from tlie centre of the elbow to the base or root of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, immediately above which it winds round the outer surface of the carpus, descends a little beneath the extensors of the thumb, turns forwards, passes between the heads of the first and second metacarpal bones, sinks deep into the palm of the hand, and then terminates in the deep palmar arch. In the forearm the radial artery is superficial, being covered only by the integuments and fascia, except in its upper third, where it is overlapped by the convergence of the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles. It rests in the upper third of the forearm on the tendon of the biceps, and some fat, cellular tissue, and nerves, which separate it from the supinator brevis ; in the middle third on the tendon of the pronator radii teres and the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; and in the inferior third on the flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus, and on the extremity of the radius. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery is between the supinator radii longus and pronator radii teres; but in the two lower thirds between the supinator radii longus and flexor carpi radialis. The radial artery is accompanied only in its middle third by a nerve, viz., the musculo-spiral or radial nerve. As the radial artery winds round the outside of the carpus it crosses the external lateral ligament of the wrist, then passes under the tendons of the extensor metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, between which and the ten- don of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis it may be felt during hfe ; it finally descends beneath this tendon to the cleft between the first and second metacarpal bones. The branches of the radial artery are the followin*: Arteria radialis recurrens arises a little below the elbow- jomt, winds outwards and upwards, and terminates in the tossa between the brachialis anticus and supinator lon-us gmng off branches which anastomose with the anterior branch ot the superior profunda artery From the origin of this artery to within an inch of the lower end of the radius, the radial artery gives off only small branches to the neighbouring muscles. At thia point It gives off the following branches :358 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. Arteria superficialis voles descends inwards over the anterior annular ligament to the root of the thumb, where it sends off several branches to the muscles of the thumb and surrounding integuments, and terminates by anasto- mosing with the superficial palmar arch. ArterioB carpi radialis, anterior and posterior, proceed from the radial artery, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface of the carpus, and pass to the carpal bones beneath the tendons, supplying the bones of the carpus and the synovial membrane of the wrist, and anastomosing with corresponding branches from the ulnar artery. Arterice dorsales pollicis are two branches sometimes arising from one common trunk, which run along the lateral and dorsal surfaces of the thumb to its extremity. While sunk in the cleft between the first and second metacarpal bones, the radial artery divides into its three terminating branches, namely, the arteria princeps pollicis, arteria radiaUs indicis, and the arteria radialis profunda. Arteria princeps pollicis runs along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and at its extreme end divides into two branches, which run along the lateral surfaces of the phalanges of the thumb to its extremity, and there anastomose with each other, and with the preceding branches. Arteria radialis indicis runs along the radial side of the index finger to its extreme end, where it anastomoses with the branch on the ulnar side of the index finger from the superficial palmar arch of arteries. Arteria palmaris profunda runs in the hollow of the hand along the carpal extremities of the four metacarpal bones, and the interos- seous muscles beneath the flexor tendons aud lumbricales muscles, and opposite the fifth metacarpal bone anastomoses with the communicating branch from the ulnar arterj', thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the convexity of this arch, where it is directed towards the fingers, several small branches pass to the interossei muscles; from its concavity branches ascend to anastomose with the carpal branches of the radial, and ulnar arteries. The deep palmar arch of arteries is accompanied by a corresponding arch of nerves, formed by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The nervous arch lies superficial to the arterial. The radial artery is in general tied in consequence of its being wounded, or to restrain hajmorrhage from the palmar arch when injured. It may be secured with facility in any part of the fore- arm by cutting" through the integuments and fascia. In the middle and lower third the radial side of tlie flexor carpi radiahs tendon guides us to the artery, but in the upper third we are toARTERIA ULNAKIS. 350 cut between the supinator longus and pronator teres muscles which overlap the artery a little. As the musculo-spiral nerve' lies to the outer side of the artery in its middle third, the aneu rism needle should be passed from without inwards; elsewhere it IS a matter of indifference what direction is given to the instru ARTERIA "ULNARIS. From the division of the brachial the ulnar artery runs downwards and inwards along the ulnar side of the fore- arm passing in front of the wrist between the two portions of the annular hgaraent, enters the palm of the hand fI.H. ^'""'f^ integuments, and palma^ fascia obliquely forwards and outwards towards the meta carpal bone of the index-finger, where it termi.TateTby anastomosing with the superficiaJis vote and radialis in- dicis arteries. In the forearm the ulnar artery is deep but becomes superficial in the palm of the handf In the iayei ot the flexors and pronators, namely, the pronator teres, flexor carpi radiahs, palmaris longus, and the flew drgitorum subhmis; in the two lower thirds, it is overed only by the integuments, the fascia of the forearm and [he tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. At first the ulnar artery rests on the brachialis anticus but throughout the rest of the forearm on the flexor Z ' torum .profundus. It is joined at the junction of Se upper and middle thirds of the forearm by the ulnar nerve wE accompanies it to the palm of the hand, the nerve Ues to the inner or ulnar side of the artery, except at the wr s where it inchnes towards its porferior surface. The mid an but, perforating the pronator teres, is separated frnm^h,: artery by the second head of that muscle the nervpT joins the ulnar artery in the palm of tbl ?! T ^ '"^^'^ forms the superficial paW a/ch of nerves ^' The principal branches of the ulnar artery are the fol- ^ ^rteriis recurrentes anterior !^r,,] 4 ■ sometimes together, sometimes seTarXlv / a short distance below the elbowToS ^Ph ""/^^ ""'"''^ smaller of the two, ascends benlff he ^1:^7'' the anterior surface of the brachialis a'nt C JC"^360 HEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, terminates by supplying the neighbouring muscles, and anastomosing", with the anastomotica magna, and inferior profunda arteries. The posterior ulnar recurrent artery ascends to the fossa between the internal condyle and olecranon process, where it lies with and beneath the ulnar nerve, between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris; it supplies the elbow-joint and triceps muscle, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anasto- motica magna arteries. A short distance below the preceding, the ulnar artery gives olF the arteria interossea: this vessel, of considerable size, passes backwards, downwards, and outwards, to arrive at the interosseous membrane; it gives off a few twigs, which ascend in front of the elbow-joint, and anas- tomose with the other arteries in this situation. At the upper extremity of the interosseous membrane, the interos- seous artery divides into two branches, named the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior branch descends along the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, between the flexor pollicis longus and flexor digitorum profundus, accompanied by a branch of the median nerve, to the upper edge of the pro- nator quadratus, where it divides into two branches, one of which descends in the substance of the muscle in front of the wrist into the palm of the hand, where it anastomoses with the anterior carpal arteries, and the deep palmar arch; the other branch passes backwards through the in- terosseous membrane to the back of the wrist and hand, where it anastomoses with the posterior carpal and inter- osseous arteries. The posterior interosseous artery passes between the anterior oblique ligament and the upper edge of the inter- osseous membrane to the back of the forearm, where, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, it divides into two branches, one of which, the posterior in- terosseous recurrent, ascends in the substance of the anconeus to the fossa between the internal condyle and olecranon process, where it anastomoses with branches from the superior profunda artery. The other branch descends amongst the extensor tendons to the wrist, where it anastomoses with the posterior carpal arteries, and witli the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery.ARTERIA ULNARIS. 3gl As the dnar artery descends in the forearm to the wrist t gives off only rmiscular branches, until it arrives near the wrist, where we have proceeding from it the ArtericB carpi ulnares, anterior and posterior- these correspond with the branches given off by ^he radial arterj with which, and the interosseous arteries, they anastomose freely around the articulation. ^ thiomose Opposite the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, the ulnar artery divides into its two terminating branches n.l1n n?^rT"'i"''''''' profunda sinks deep into the nem to tin ^ accompanied by a branch of the ulnar arteries! ' P=^'°^ar arch of acrtsAe .dm oTtrT^t^^' ^'^^^l'^^^^ ^^^^s across the palm of the hand to the centre of the second metacarpal bone, where it turns upwards to join the super these supplies the ulnar side of the Iktle finVe, nf \f remaining three, each divides opposite the clS L/ ' the fingers into two branches, whkh run alon'll* ^''^''"^ tively, and terminate in the nuln nf th^ fl„ *u ^^^P^^- mosing with the opposite arter/ "^"^^ by at^^rcE:?;^PtrLTfrom r'^V ^^^^^^^^^^^ branch from th 1^^^^^^^^ deeper than the arch of a^L i^s/opp' Lle"'rf: 1!" tween the fingers, each artery perfomes ^ * nerve. On the sides of the finders the 1^^^^^^^^ ficial to the arteries; the nerves Cthp A ^" '"P^^" in the pulp of the finc^ers wWl terminate very hi^Hi degrefof r^a 'is^ a'nd wV f"^'^"^^^ ^'^'h a to execute the function TtoS ""^^^^^ them other part of the bod^ f ronrtheT;' ^''^'''^^ '^'^'^ arch of arteries smaill-ancrpt 1X^211 '''''''' wi h the carpal and interosseous a teries ^"^^^""^ose ihe fingers are supplied with aSes and nerv, es as 16362 ■REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. follows: The .ulnar artery supplies the ulnar side of the little finger, and the opposed sides of the little, ring, middle, and index fingers; the radial artery supphes the radial side of the thumb, and the opposed sides of the thumb and index fingers. The median nerve supplies the radial side of the thumb, and the opposed sides of the thumb, index, middle, and ring fingers; the ulnar nerve supplies the ulnar side of the little finger, and the opposed sides of the little and ring fingers. On the back of the hand the posterior branches of the musculo-spiral and ulnar nerves supply respectively two fingers and a half; the former, the thumb, the index, and one half the middle finger ; the latter the remaining fingers. The surgeon is very frequently called on to tie the ulnar artery in conse°quence of wounds of the palmar arch of arteries. We have already said that the palm of the hand is one of the situations, the so'le of the foot being the other, in which wounds of the contained arteries are treated by tying the artery leading to the injured vessels, contrarv to the general practice of cutting down on the wounded artery, and securing it above and below the wound. The cause of this deviation from the general practice m these instances will be found in the number of vessels, nerves, and tendons in both the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, the disturbance and unavoidable injury of which in looking tor the injured vessel would more than counterbalance the advantage that might be derived from tying the artery where injured. \\hm, therefore, the superficial palmar arch of arteries has been wounded, and that compression by means of portions of lint or sponge has been found ineffectual in restraining the haemorrhage, the ulnar artery should be tied in the lower third of the forearm In some cases, this operation, although followed l^J tl^^ compresses in the palm of the hand, has been found msufficient to restrain the bleeding in consequence of tlie free communicanon that exists between the superficial and deep palmar ai-ches of arteries; hence it may be necessary to tie also the radial artery. The ulnar artery is also tied occasionally for the cure of aneu- rism; but, as this disease rarely affects arteries of such a size, it is seldom that the operation is required for this paiticu ar V^^^f^- .The ulnar artery may be tied with facility in either the middle or lower third of the forearm, by making an incision, about two inches and a half in length, through the integuments and tascia over the course of the artery, along the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon. On separating the edges of the ^^o"""^ » will be found necessary to cut through a thm layer ot lascia, which binds down the tendon; this haying been done, the tenaon is to be raised, when the artery is at once brought into Me\> , having been sufficiently detached from the ulnar nerve, wnicaAETERIA ULNARIS. 363 lies to its ulnar side, and its two vena3 comites, the aneurismal . needle IS to be passed from within outwards, and the artery thus secured. Much difficulty, however, will be experienced in any attempt to tie this vessel in the upper third of the forearm, as it here lies covered by the superficial layer of tiexor and pronator muscles Mr. Guthrie has recommended us to cut through the bellies of these muscles directly down upon the vessel; others advocate making our incision on the inner side of the forearm, parallel to and a little in front of the ulna, when, by passing between the two layers of muscles, the artery ma; be^^ecured Tri.?, '^'^'''^^y' nerve will first be «posed in this operation, and will thus seiTe as a guide to the The depth of the interosseous artery nearly precludes it tiom any interference on the part of the surgeon. The ramal, ulnar, and interosseous arteries will require to be tied in amputations of the forearm. mn.ll,'''''f .r"" ^'T'^ consideration of the mu Hp i .V ^^t^-brachial region or forearm. The iT^e mto tw r^''"" ^? ^''''^^^S to their i ltnU i f*'' Pi'^ators and flexors, supi- SeirfleWtr^r- - -med fro^m tneu flexing the elbow or wrist-joint, or the fineers • the pronators fi-om their causing t^ie r'adius to rofl on L ptm 0? th. 1 ^T^r hand-that is, to place the modes of aPtiJ' '^^^"^^rds; in general, both these of Z Po««e^^«ed by each muscle. This set of muscles arise chiefly from the internal condyle and the inner or ulnar side of the forearm, and lie on Is ^rd? ' o Z ^I'P^^^tors roll the radius back- ^C'^^t:^-''^ - posterior rd^t^ The pronator radii teres Flexor carpi radialis, ' Patmari.1 longiis, Flexor carpi idnaris, Flexor digitorum sublimis.REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 364 The deep layer consists of but three muscles, viz. Flexor digitorum profundua, Flexor longus pollicii!, Pronator radii quadratus. The origin and insertion of these muscles are given in a former part of this work- The tendons of the two flexors of the fingers and long flexor of the thumb, together with the median nerve and the flexor carpi radialis tendon, pass beneath the anterior annular Ugament of the wrist, and are invested at this part with a large synovial sheath, which ascends into the fore- arm, and descends towards the palm of the hand to some distance, terminating at each extremity in a cul-de-sac. This sac being constantly filled with synovial fluid, lubricates the tendons, and thus facilitates then- free motions. In injuries about the wrist, effusion of serum frequently takes place into this bursa, which, becoming distended, causes much de- formity, and is frequently mistaken for a dislocation of the radius or ulna, or both bones. Wounds of this bursa are followed by a severe erysipelatous inflammation of the forearm : the same is the result of inflammation in the palm of the hand, when the inflam- mation, not being subdued by appropriate treatment, ascends into the forearm. The flexor tendons are bound to the phalanges by a strong fibrous sheath, which, with the bone beneath, forms a canal for their transmission, lined by a synovial sac. The fibrous sheath is less distinct opposite the articulations, and is continuous anteriorly with the tendons of the deep flexors. PALMAR REGION, OR PALM OF THE HAND. In the preceding description, the vessels aud nerves and principal tendons in the palm of the hand have been men- tioned ; we shall not recapitulate them, but describe only the other parts which are most important in this region. On raising the integuments, a few muscular fibres are exposed on its inner and anterior part, and constitute the palmaris brevis muscle. Bv a little further dissection, the palmar aponeurosis or fascia will be brought into view. This is a dense layer of fibrous structure, which covers the vessels and nerves in the centre of this region, sending off, at the same time, other layers on either side to cover the muscles of the thumb aud little finger. This palmar fascia is tnangu ar in shape; its apex, posteriorly, is attached to the annularPALMAR REGION. 365 ligament and the tendon of the pahuaris lougus; from this it descends, expanding, and, after a short course, divides into four distinct portions, each of which sub- divides into two processes, which pass forwards and are inserted, one on each side, into the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations and the sheaths of the flexor tendons, leaving intervals for the passage of the tendons, nerves, and vessels, to the fingers. The fibres of the palmar aponeurosis are chiefly longitudinal, but towards its anterior part some transverse ones may be noticed, which bind the longitudinal fibres firmly together; other fibres sink deep from the fascia into the palm of the hand, and become attached to the metacarpal bones and interossei muscles. The palmar aponeurosis binds down the veins, nerves, and tendons of the palm of the hand, and protects them from injury. In a practical point of view, this fascia is of much importance. In cases of wounds of the arteries in the palm of the hand, the re- sistance of this fascia prevents the employment of compression from being as useful as it would otherwise be in restraining the haemorrhage; hence sm-geons are frequently obliged to tie one or both of the arteries of the forearm before the bleeding can be sufficiently controlled. When abscesses, too, form beneath the palmar fascia, as frequently occurs in cases of paronychia, wounds in dissection, &c., it is necessary to give the matter a free and early exit ; if this be neglected, the inflammation will spread upwards, beneath the annular ligament, into the forearm, and thus impbcating the tendons and their svnovial sheath, will give rise to much local and constitutional disturbance. -There need be little apprehension, in opening these abscesses, of wounding the palmar arteries, as the matter almost always lies immediatelv beneath the fascia, and will flow out as soon as this has been divided. Occasionally tlie matter points in the cleft between the fingers, owing to the less resistance of the fascia in these situations • in such cases, the introduction of the point of the lancet into the swelhng will give exit to the matter, and relieve the patient. Beneath the palmar aponeurosis the superficial arches of arteries and nerves cross the palm of the hand • the first formed chiefly by the ulnar artery, the nervous'ard chiefly by the median nerve. The arteries lie superficial 0 the nerves. On raising them, the muscles ^f the thumb are exposed on the outer side, the Ion- tendons and lumbncales m the centre; and beneath them Z deep arches of arter.es and nerves and the ii^ ossei muscles, and internally, the muscles of the little fing r366 REGIONAL A.ND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The particulars connected with these have been adverted to in other parts of the work to such an extent, as not to require any further lengthened description. ARTEBIjE ILIACiE COMMUNES. The aorta bifurcates in front, and a little to the left side, of the fourth lumbar vertebra, sometimes the third or fifth, and opposite to a point, corresponding externally to a little below and to the left side of the umbUicus, into the right and left common iliac arteries. Each common iliac artery thence descends outwards, and opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, divides into tlie internal and external iliac arteries. The common iliac arteries are covered in front by the peritoneum, and are crossed at tbeir bifur- cation by the ureters; on the left side, by the colon descending to form the rectum, and on the right by the ileum terminating in the caecum. The right common Diac artery crosses the last lumbar vertebra, with the interven- tion of the left common iliac vein, and the commencement of the vena cava, which is formed behind the artery by the junction of the two common iliac veins; it then crosses its own vein, which, lies superiorly to its outer but inferiorly to its inner side. The left common iliac vein lies, through- out, internal and posterior to its artery. The length of these arteries is about two inches and a half, but they have been found to vary as much in length, as from one inch and a half to three inches and a half. If there be any dif- ference in the length of the two, the right one is likely to be longer. From the angle of bifurcation of the aorta there proceeds the Arteria sacri media. This is a small vessel which descends in front of the mesial line of the sacrum to the coccyx, sending off branches on each side to communicate with the lateral sacral arteries, and others in front to the rectum. The common iliac artery is tied, in aneurisms of the external iliac, high up, of the internal iliac artery, or of its principal branches. The operation is performed hy making a slightly curved incision from four to five inches in length in the lateral part of the abdo- minal parictes, extending one half above, the other below, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The integuments and muscles having been cut through, the transversalis fascia is367 ARTERIA ILIACA INTERNA. to be carefully divirled, and the peritoneum drawn upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus. The common iliac artery may be now easily felt, or even seen, when the aneurism needle should be passed from within outwards, except in tying the artery on the right side, in the lower part of its course, when the contrary direction is to be preferred, and the vessel secured. Arteria iliaca interna vel hypogastrica proceeds from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery downwards and backwards, in the posterior part of the pelvis, in front of the sacro-iliac symphysis, as far as the upper part of the great sciatic notch, where it terminates by dividing into two or three large branches. In this course, the internal iliac artery has to its inner side and posteriorly the origins of the pyriformis muscle and the anterior sacral nerves; behind it is the lumbo-sacral nerve, and in front of it the peritoneum. The internal iliac vein and the branches which are about to form it generally cover the internal iliac artery so as to obscure it from view. In the adult, this artery is somewhat smaller than the external Hiac, but in the foetus it appears as the continuation of the common iliac, both as to size and direction; at this period of life, it returns the blood from the fcetus to the placenta of the mother; its principal branch then forms the umbilical artery, which ascends along the lateral surface of the bladder, behind the rectus muscle to the umbilicus, where it passes out and forms, with the artery of the opposite side and the umbilical vein, the umbilical chord. After birth, when the chord is tied the blood ceases to circulate in the umbilical artery, which becomes obliterated from the umbilicus to the bladder; it thus diminishes in size, and forms one of the vesical arteries in the adult. The internal iliac artery may be tied for aneurism of one of its principal branches. This operation may he performed, like that for tying the common iliac artery, the incisions being made some- what lower down. In securing these vessels the ureter is not endangered, as it follows the peritoneum when this membrane is raised out of the iliac fossa, We consider it is better to secure he common d,ac artery, than resort to the operation of tyini? the internal ihac, as tins is a much more difficult operation, and not so likely to succeed, from the number of important parts disturbed, and the shortness of the arterial trunk. The branches of the internal iliac artery are divided intoREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 368 tlie internal and external. The internal are small, and are distributed to the walls of the pelvis and its contents; the external are large, pass out of the pelvis, and are lost in the external soft parts. The internal branches are the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, middle hsemorrhoidal, vesical; and in addition, in the female, the vaginal and uterine arteries. 1. Arteria ilio-lnmbalis arises from the external and posterior part of the internal iliac artery, runs upwards and outwards, in front of the lumbo-sacral nei've, and behind the common iliac artery and vein, psoas and iliacus internus muscle, and anterior crural nerve, to the iliac fossa, where it terminates in numerous branches, some of which ascend to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, and anasto- mose with the lumbar branches of the aorta, whilst others pass outwards to the crest of the ilium, and anastomose with the branches of the interna circumflexa ilii and gluteal arteries. A branch of the ilio-lumbar artery enters a foramen of the inner surface of the os ilium, and supplies the bone. 2. Arteria sacri lateralis passes from the inner side of the internal iliac artery downwards and inwards, in front of the pyriform muscle and sacral nerves, and to the outer side of the sympathetic nerve, and terminates in supplying branches to the sacral nerves in the interior of the sacrum and the pyriform muscle, and in anastomosing with the branches of the middle sacral artery near the coccyx. 3. Arteria hcBinorrhoidalis media passes downwards, forwards, and inwards, along the posterior and lateral surface of the rectum, on which it is lost, anastomosing superiorly with the branches of the superior hseraorrlioidal artery from the inferior mesenteric, and inferiorly with the inferior or external hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic. The rectum thus receives a supply of blood from three sources, the inferior mesenteric, the internal iliac, and the internal pudic; the largest branches of these hsemor- rhoidal arteries are met with on the posterior surface of the rectum, but these soon break down and surround the intestine, as far as the anus, with numerous vascular ramifications, some of which, inferiorly, pass forwards to the bladder, prostate gland, and vesiculae semiuales, in the male, and to the vagina in the female.ARTERTA ILIACA INTERNA. 3Qg In the operations for fistula in ano, piles, &c. some of these branches are in general wounded; if large, serious hemorrhage may be the result. Under these circumstances, the surgeon should, if the application of cold or pressure to the part be insufficient to re- strain the bleeding, at once look for and secure the bleeding vessel with the tenaculum, if this can be effected; where such it impossible, the rectum should be plugged. As the vessel may bleed into the rectum, and so escape observation, until so much blood has been lost as to prove fatal to the patient, the prac- titioner should always be on his guard after the performance of these operations. 4. ArtericB vesicates, irregular as to origin, size, and number, proceed to the inferior fundus of the bladder where they are principally lost. The foetal umbUicai artery forms one of the vesical arteries in the adult. 5. Arteria vaginalis runs along the anterior and lateral Fi^^'Vf ^""^ suppHes It with branches, as also tlie bladder and rectum, anastomosing with branches of the pudic artery. 6. Arteria iiterina passes forwards and inwards, runs between tbe laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus which It supplies, sending some branches to the ovary and fallopian tube. During pregnancy the uterine aiteries become much enlarged and tortuous. The external branches of the internal iliac are the obturator, gluteal, sciatic, and internal pudic. I. Arteria obturatoria vel thyroidea runs downwards and forwards in the cavity of the pelvis, below and internal to the external iliac artery and vein, and accompanied by the obturator nerve, which lies in front of it, passes out through the upper part of the obturator foramen into the superior and inner part of the thigh, where it divides into numerous branches which supply the obturator and ad- ductor muscles and anastomose with the branches of the internal circumflex artery. The obturator artery generally sends olf a branch which enters tbe hip.joint tlLS the notch in the inner part of the acetabulum, runs aW he igamentum teres, and supplies the head of the fimur Ihe obturator artery frequently arises from tl e pi^aZ' tZlu wZ t\IrT' the o'feurato; S:re; or'lurL^'^l e^rl^oVu^eT.e^T '\ l^ernia. when such exists, fortuttdy^^^^ IG §REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 370 the latter course, and is thus seldom endangered in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia, 2. Arteria glutea, the largest branch of the internal iliac artery, runs downwards, backwards, and outwards, through the upper part of the great sciatic notch, above the pyriform muscle, and accompanied by the superior gluteal nerve to the supply of the gluteal muscles, in which its branches anastomose, superiorly with those of the internal circumflex iliac artery, inferiorly with branches of the sciatic, anteriorly with those of the external cir- cumflex, and posteriorly with branches of the internal pudic artery. The gluteal artery has been cut down upon, and tied where it escapes from the great sciatic notch, in cases of wounds by pene- trating instruments. This operation may be performed by making an incision from the posterior spinous process of the ilium to the great trochanter, the artery lying at the junction of the posterior with the middle third of this line; the skin and fascia having been cut through, the incision should be extended between the fibres of the gluteus maximus, on separating which, and tearing through some cellular tissue, the gluteal artery may be felt by pressing the finger against the upper part of the great sciatic notch, where the vessel lies between the pyriformis and gluteus medius muscles. The gluteal artery may be affected with aneu- rism ; here, the internal iliac or the common iliac artery should be secured. 3. Arteria ischiatica vel sciatica runs a short distance in the pelvis, passes out through the great sciatic notch, below the pyriform muscle, along with, but above, the great and lesser sciatic nerves and pudic artery ; descends on the outer side of the pelvis with the great sciatic nerve, between the tuber ischii and great trochanter, but nearer the former, and terminates in some branches which supply the surrounding muscles ; some of these ascend to anasto- mose with the gluteal and pudic arteries; others descend to the muscles on the back of the thigh, and anastomose with the branches of the internal circumflex and per- forating arteries. The only important branch of the sciatic artery is one which accompanies the sciatic nerve (arteria comes nervi ischiatici) : this branch is found to be much enlarged in cases where the femoral or iliac artery has been tied. The sciatic artery may be exposed and tied by an incision, similar to that recommended for securing the gluteal artery, but an inch and a half lower down.ARTEUIA ILIACA INTERNA. 371 Arteria pudica interna proceeds in company M'ith the sciatic artery out of the pelvis ; winds round the spine of the ischium, and insertion of the lesser sciatic ligament; re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic notch, runs upwards and forwards on the inner surface of the tuber ischii and ramus of the ischium and pubes, until it arrives at the sub-pubic ligament, when it terminates by dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosura and the dorsal artery of the penis. In this course, the pudic artery is accompanied by the pudic nerve, a branch of the sacral plexus. In the first part of its course, the pudic artery gives off a few small branches to the bladder and vesicute seminales in the male, to the vagina and uterus in the female. Whilst external to the pelvis, or in its second stage, the pudic artery gives off a few branches to the surrounding muscles. In its third stage the pudic artery is bound to the inner surface of the bones and the obturator muscle by the obturator fascia and an expansion from the great sciatic ligament, and lies along the outer side of the perineum, where it is endangered in performing the operation of lithotomy. The principal branches arise from the pudic artery in this stage of its course, and are as follows: 1. Arteries hcBtnorrhoidales externce are two or three in number: they are distributed to the lower extremity of the rectum, where they anastoraovse with the other hsemor- rhoidal arteries. 2. Arteria superficialis perinei pierces the obturator fascia and base of the triangular ligament, runs forwards and inwards in the interspace between the accelerator urinse and erector penis, and is lost in the integuments of the perineum and scrotum. This artery runs in the line of our incisions in the operation of lithotomy, and therefore cannot be avoided. 3. Arteria iransversalis j^erijiei runs forwards and inwards along the interior and cutaneous surface of the transversus perinei muscle to the mesial line, where it terminates by anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. This artery is cut across in the operatioi/of lithotomy. 4. Arteria corporis bidbosi vel spongiosi urethrm arises opposite the point where the urethra pierces the deep372 EEGIOXAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, perinea] fascia; runs inwards and slightly forwards, be- tween the layers of the triangular ligament; enters the bulb, and supplies the corpus spongiosum urethrse. This artery is much endangered in the operation of lithotomy, and should be avoided. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case of haemorrhage from the urethra, in which he cut down and divided this artery, to arrest the bleeding, with success. 5. Arteria corporis cavernosi penis. At the ramus of the pubes the pudic artery perforates the triangular liga- ment and runs between the bone and the crus penis; it here divides into the artery of the cavernous body and the dorsal artery of the penis. The former perforates the crus penis, runs forwards in the corpus caveruosum, close to the septum pectiniforme, and terminates by supplying the erectile tissue of that body, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side through the septum. 6. Arteria dorsalis penis ascends between the ramus of the pubes and crus penis, joins the dorsal veins and nerves of the penis, runs between the fibres of the suspensory ligament, and then passes forwards in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, beneath the skin and superficial fascia, as far as the corona glandis, in which and the pre- ouce it is lost. In cases of haemorrhage from the penis, arising from sloughing ulcers, ruptured urethra, or other causes, it may be necessary to tie the dorsal artery; this is easily done by making an incision on the dorsum of the penis, in the course of the artery. Hsemorrhage from the urethra may be restrained by passing a silver catheter into the canal, and then applying a bandage tightly round the penis. In more urgent cases, Sir A. Cooper's practice may be followed, or the pudic ai-tery be compressed, where it crosses the spine of the ischium. The dorsal artery of the penis sometimes arises, as a distinct branch from the internal iliac artery, whence it passes directly forwards, along the lateral surface of the neck of the bladder and prostate gland, to its destination ; should the operation of lithotomy be performed in a subject where this variety exists, it would be almost impossible to avoid wounding the artery. In amputations of the penis, the dorsal arteries and the arteries of the corpora cavernosa arc usually tied ; there is some difficulty in securing the latter, from their retracting into the cells of the cavernous body; where they cannot be tied, pressure should be applied on the part by means of a dossil of lint. The pudic artery has an analogous course and distri- bution in the female to the male; its terminating branchesARTERIi'E ILIAC^E EXTERN.E. 373 are lost in the body and on the dorsum of the clitoris. It is much smaller in the female. The pudic artery is small before the age of puberty. The trunk of the pudic artery may be tied in its second stage by an operation similar to that recommended for securing the sciatic artery; our object should be to expose the spine of the ischium, where the artery will be found without fail. AUTERIiE ILIAC^ EXTERNA. The external iliac artery on each side proceeds from the bifurcation of the common iliac, downwards and outwards along the inner margin of the psoas muscle and brim of the pelvis, as far as Pouparfs ligament ■ it passes beneath this ligament a little to the pubic side of its central point and enters the thigh, when it assumes the name of femoral artery. In this course, the external iliac artery is covered by the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, and by a thin layer of fascia, named the " fascia propria" of the external Iliac artery, derived from the fascia iliaca, having to its inner side, and a little behind it, the external iliac vein • to Its outer side, and in close contact with it, the geuito- crural nerve; and still more externally, the anterior crural nerve lying imbedded between the psoas and iliacus in- ternus muscles. The external iliac artery gives off a few small branches to the surrounding muscles and ceUular tissue, and about lialt an inch above Poupart's ligament, the two following important vessels. ^^vviuj, 1. Arteria epigastrica proceeds from the inner side of the external iliac artery, first downwards and inwards then turns upwards and inwards, winding round the cul' de-sac of the peritoneum, ascends in ^he transversalis fascia, entei's the sheath of the rectus muscle, and he e terminates in numerous branches, which supply li s muscle and anastomose with the branches of the iiftei ni mammary artery. Soon after the epigastric nilerv JpI to ascend it crosses to the inner'sS "f" r^tS abdomiua ring, lying behind the spermatic chord i/ k here hooked round by the vns Le , • , ' descends, internal and'po tlior to if i"t:> T^"' 1'"^ here the artery gives off Leral bratll^s T^l^^374 REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. chord and abdominal muscles; one considerable brancli, the cremasteric artery, descends on the chord which it supplies. On account of the relation of the epigastric artery to the abdominal rings, between which it lies, we should divide the stricture, in oblique inguinal hernia, upwards and outwards, but in the direct species upwards and inwards; and when we are in doubt as to the form of the hernia, directly upwards. This vessel may be wounded in the operation of tapping an ovarian cyst, or of para- centesis abdominis, according to the old method. 2. Arteria circumflexa ilii runs upwards and outwards from the outer side of the external iliac ^rtery beneath the tendinous white line, formed by the junction of the trans- versalis fascia and fascia iliaca, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; it then winds round the inner edge of the crest of the ilium, between the internal oblique and transversaUs muscles, in which it terminates, by sending off numerous branches which supply the ab- dominal muscles, and anastomose with the branches of the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and gluteal arteries. The external iliac artery is tied in cases of femoral aneurism high up, or of hsemorrhage from the femoral artery, after it has been tied for the cure of popliteal aneurism. It may be also secured, according to the distal operation, for the cure of an aneurism of its cardiac extremity. There are two operations performed for this purpose, one recommended by Mr. Abernethy, the other by Sir A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy's operation is performed as follows: , , Make an incision, four inches in length, over the course of the artery; this will be nearly perpendicular to the centre of Poupart s ligament, the skin, fascia, and external oblique having been cut through, a director is to he passed beneath the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and these then may be divided; the transversalis fascia being now cut through, the peritoneum is to be raised inwards, out of the iliac fossa, when the artery is exposed: the fascia propria being now carefully divided, the aneurism needle is to be passed from ^^^thln out- wards, avoiding the genito-crural nerve, and the vessel secured at some distance above the origins of the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries. , In Sir A. Cooper's operation, a semilunar incision is made, about four inches in length, having its concavity directed upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus, and extending from a little above and internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the iliura, to the outer side of the external abdominal ring; by this, the skin, fascia, and external oblique tendon are divided, the inguinal canal is now exposed and the lower edge of the internal obliquePERINEUM IN THE MALE. 375 and transversalis raised upwards; the internal abdominal ring being now brought into view is dilated, and the finger passed throngh it to the artery, which is tied, as in Mr. Abernethv's operation. Of these two operations Sir A. Cooper's is to be preferred, as it is more easily performed, and the abdominal muscles are not divided to the same extent,—hence a hernia is not so likely to follow; in addition, should secondary haemon-hage ensue, we can have recourse to Mr. Abernethv's plan, and tie the vessel hio-her up. ° THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE. The perineum is a diamond-shaped space, situated between the upper part of the thighs, bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, behind by the coccyx, on eacli side by the ramus of the ischium and pubis, the tuber ischn, the great sciatic ligament, and inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle. It is divided by some for the sake of description into two parts, by a line drawn transversely from the tuberosity of one ischium to the other. The part anterior to this line is named the urethral portion, that posteriorly is named anal. The integuments covering the perineum are thin and of a brownish colour. On the mesial line a ridge proiects named the raphe of the perineum, which commences in tront ot the anus, extends forwards along the perineum scrotum, and under surface of the penis, in some subiects as far as the fraenum preputii. As the raphe indicates the mesial hue, it serves as our guide in cutting down on the urethra opening abscesses in perineo, &c.; in the operation ot lithotomy, we cut to its left side. On raising the integuments from the perineum the subcutaneous cellular tissue or fascia and sphincter ani are exposed. The superficial fascia is thin and loose • it is continuous with the surrounding cellular tissue, and con- tains a few small blood-vessels and nerves; posterioriv it becomes increased in quantity, and loaded with adipose tissue, and sinks into a deep triangular fossa between ti e rectum and levator am internally, and the obturator inte ! nus muscle externally This adipose tissue is sometb'es attacked with erysipelatous inflammation, which if no restrained may terminate in slouehine- so n, tr^ i i the rectun,. Incisions sh„„M b/lS T„t"o' t o oS" fssue, before the intommation arrives at its liei..|,t376 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The sphincter ani muscle is seen to surround the lower extremity of the rectum, and thus closes the anus, except during the expulsion of the faeces. In the operation of lithotomy, a few of the lateral fibres of this muscle, if well developed, are cut across. The operation for the cure ot fistula in ano consists in dividing the sphincter am muscle, in cutting through the fistula, as the contraction ot the muscular fibres is the chief impediment to the heahng ot the sinus. Dupuytren recommended the division ot the muscle, for the relief of those painful fissures which occasionally form in the margin of the anus. The deep sphincter ani lies above the preceding, and encircles the lower extremity of the rectum; it is formed by the muscular fibres of the intestine and those of the levator ani, which here take a circular course. ^ ■ , • On removing the superficial fascia, the superficial peri- neal fascia is brought into view : this is a dense layer of fascia, which invests the muscles of the perineum ; on each side it is firmly attached to the ramus of the ischmm and pubis ; anteriorly, it is continuous with the fascia of ?he scrotum, posteriorly it is lost on the anterior surface of the rectum, where it becomes cou muous ^"h the posterior edge or base of the triangular ligament. When Ltravasation of urine takes place into Perineum, from rupture of the urethra, the attachments of the fascia prevent the fluid from passing either laterally or pos- teriorly; consequently it is forced forwai-ds into the cellular tissue o the scrotum whence it ascends on the abdominal panetes In making our incisions m perineo to aUow ot the escape of the fluid, the perineal fascia should be freely lid d When abscesses form in perineo the resistance of he fascia renders it difiicult to ascertain the fluctuation of Z matter: hence collections of matter here have been nrS; Uret^petial perineal fascia, the muscles and principal vessels and nerves of the perineum and the Sriie, contained in the anterior part of the permeum whilst the rectum and the sphincter ani muscles occupy ur«osterior portion. The muscles of the perineum aie the Zector pLs, accelerator urince, and the tra^rsversu. wJ«7 thefenniscles bound a triangular space inwhch Tar Tncisions pass in performing the operation ot litho-377 PERINEUM IN THE MALE. tomy; the erector penis and crus penis bound the space externally, the accelerator urinse internally, the apex is in front, where these muscles converge, the base is posteriorly, and is formed by the transversus perinei muscle and ac- companying vessels and nerves; tlirough this space the perineal vessels and nerves pass from behind forwards. The trunk of the internal pudic artery Ues to the outer side of the perineum on the inner surface of the tuber ischii; it is here covered by the obturator fascia, and lies at about the distance of one inch from the edge of the bone and nearly three inches from the external skin ; from these relations it is endangered in the operation of litho- tomy. The erector penis lies on the crus penis, and thus is enabled, by compressing this body against the bone, to cause the erection of the penis, by forcing the blood forward into the corpus cavernosum or by preventing the return of the venous blood. The accelerator urincB muscle is united with its fellow on the mesial line; the two muscles thus united surround the bulb and commencement of the corpus spongiosum urethrse, and are enabled by their contraction to eject from this portion of the canal the semen, or the last drops of urine. When passing in- struments along the urethra, the spasmodic action of these muscles frequently prevents their introduction ; by keeping the instrument steadily in the part for a few minutes, the spasm subsides and allows of its entrance into the bladder. The transversus perinei muscle crosses near the centre of the perineum, from the tuber ischii inwards to the common central point of the perineum, and thus divides it into Its anterior and posterior portions ; this muscle is accom- panied by the transversus perinei artery and nerve which lie on its anterior surface. On removing the acceleratores urinse muscles the bulb of the urethra is exposed : this part lies beneath and a little in front of the arch of the pubes ; posteriorly, it is connected to the anterior surface of the anus by a li^a mentous chord, about three quarters of an inch in lenetli- this IS called the common central point of the perineum! from Its affording attachment, anteriorly, to the accelera- tores urin^ muscles, posteriorly, to the sphincter ani, and on each side to the transversus perinei Above the muscles of the perineum'it may be observed378 REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. that, from the bulb backwards to the bladder, the urethra is fixed by a dense fibrous structure, the triangular liga- ment of the urethra, or deep perineal fascia, so that we cannot alter the natural direction of this portion ot tHe canal; hence it is necessary, when passing a catheter or other instrument along the canal, to cause its point to ascend as soon as it has arrived at the bulb ; this is done by depressing the handle, the instrument being pushed onwards at the same time, when its point will pass upwards and backwards into the bladder; if this manffiuvre be not adopted and the instrument pushed onwards, its point may penetrate the bulb, and thus pass into the space between the inferior fundus of the bladder and the rectum. The triangular ligament of the urethra, or deep perineal fascia, is a dense layer of aponeurotic fibres, which fills up the perineal space in front, lying above the niuscles of the perineum and beneath the bladder ; it is attached on each side to the ramus of the ischium and pubis, where it is continuous with the obturator fascia; its apex turned forwards lies above the urethra and splits into two layers which enclose the subpubic ligament, and are .lost on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the os pubis ; its base directed backwards is semilunar, to accommodate the rectum, on which and the levator am it is graduaUy lost becoming there continuous with the -Pev^-l perm^^ fascia. The membranous portion of the V^^-^^^^^ through this ligament near its centre, at about one inch below the arch of the pubes: as the urethra pas-s through the hgament two layers pass off from it; one of them, the anterior or descending l^^^r, P^^^^^'^^^.^^''^^V^nveiW wards on the urethra, continuous with the fibrous covei ng of the corpus spongiosum urethr^e ; the other, the post^or or ascendLg lajer, passes upwards and backwards, forn ing (according to some authors,) the capsule of the Prostate gland, and is lost on the bladder. The triangular hgament is of use in supporting the pelvic viscera, a;^^ the urethra it prevents extravasated urine extending tiom the perineum to the pelvis, or vice versa. In the au^ behind the bulb of the urethra and between the layers the triangular ligament Cowper's glands are lodgcxl. Some small muscles or fasciculi of J,,^^^^ described with the perineum under the name of i^uthrie379 INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. or Wilson's muscles, and the compressor venae dorsalis penis. They are very delicate and pale, and generally so imperfectly developed that some anatomists doubt the propriety of admitting them as distinct muscles. Mr. Guthrie's muscle on each side is triangular in shape; it arises pointed from the ramus of the ischium, from which the fibres, spread out in a fan-lOce manner, surround and embrace the membranous portion of the urethra and Cowper's glands and meet in the mesial line of the tendinous raphe, which extends from the prostate to the bulb of the urethra; some of the fibres appear to pass up perpendicularly towards the symphysis pubis. Wilsons muscle, considered by many to be merely the anterior fibres of the levator ani, appears to arise from the inferior edge of the symphysis pubis, and is lost in the fibres of Guthrie's muscle, or to pass down on each side of the membranous portion of the urethra and unite beneath it, so as to support the urethra as in a sling. The action of these muscles (if admitted) is obvious from their situation. The compressor venae dorsalis penis, or Houston's muscle, on each side is about an inch in length ; it arises from the ramus of the os pubis above the erector penis, ascends forward and inward, and unites with the opposite muscle by a tendon over the dorsal vein in the mesial line. The action of these muscles consists in compressing the vein, and preventing the return of blood from the penis during erection. THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES are connected with the pelvis or lower part of the trunk by means of several muscles and the ligaments of the hip- joint. Each extremity is divided into the thigh, leg, and foot; in these, several regions of much practical import- ance present themselves, and will be considered as we proceed; these are, the/mo?-«/, the gluteal, the popliteal, and the plantar regions. On raising the integuments from the fore and inner part of the thigh, a quantity of subcutaneous cellular tissue, the superficial fascia, is brought into view • this is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen scrotum, and perineum ; in the groin it is thick and lami-REGIOKAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY, 380 nated, but elsewhere is loose and irregular; its external surface is identified with the deep surface of the integu- ments; its deep surface is loosely connected with the fascia lata, except in the groin, where it is firmly attached to the cribriform fascia. In the superficial fascia several arteries, veins, nerves, and glands, may be observed; the arteries are the external pudic, the superficial epigastric, and the externa circumflexa ilii; they arise from the femoral artery a little below Poupart's ligament, and soon penetrate the fascia lata to be distributed in the surrounding integu- ments. The external pudic are lost in the integument on the upper and inner part of the thigh, the scrotum, and penis; the superficial epigastric winds upwards over Poupart's ligament towards the umbilicus; the externa circumflexa ilii passes upwards and outwards towards the crest of the ilium; these branches, although small in the natural state, become frequently very much enlarged in diseases of the surrounding parts, and -will, if divided, require the ligature. The external pudic are in general wounded in the operation of castration, and the superficial epigastric in the operations for the relief of strangulated inguinal and femoral hernia. The veins met with in this region are the trunk and branches of the internal saphena vein ; this vessel commences at the inner side of the foot,^ ascends over the internal malleolus along the inner side ot the leg and knee into the inner and fore part of the thigh; it here continues its course upwards, turning slightly out- wards, and about one and a half or two inches below Poupart's ligament perforates the cribriform fascia to join the femoral vein; in this course the saphena vem receives several branches from the surrounding integuments; shortly before its termination two or more vessels ot considerable size, from the outer and fore part ot tbe thigh, empty themselves into it along with some of smaller size from the abdominal parietes and scrotum. In the several operations on the femoral artery, and in that for the relief of the strangulated femoral hernia, the saphena vein is much endangered, and should be avoided. This vem is liable to become varicose, particularly in the leg and foot, from its greai length and its superficial course beneath the skin where it unsupported by the fascia. Several operations '"^^■^„"'^7tfIcp posed for the relief of this disease, but most, if not all, ot tueseINFEBIOn, EXTREMITIES. 381 have been now abandoned from the great danger of venous in- flammation following any wound of the vessel. The nerves met with in the superficial fascia are chiefly branches of the anterior crural nerve which perforate the fascia lata a little below Poupart's ligament, and descend principally on the anterior and outer part of the thio-h towards the knee. Two or three branches of the genit°o- crural nerve also will be found taking this course. Numerous glands are lodged in the groin, and there form the inferior or vertical set of inguinal glands; they are divided into two sets, a superficial and deep: the superficial are four or five in number and are enclosed in a capsule formed by the superficial fascia; the deep are three or four in number and lie beneath the fascia lata, close to the femoral vessels ; one of these generally closes up the femoral ring: through these glands the absorbents of the lower extremity pass to join the pelvic and lumbar glands. The two sets of glands communicate by means of absorbents passing from one to the other.' These glands are arranged in the vertical direction, whilst the superior set ranged along Poupart's ligament are placed transversely. In a practical point of view it is of much importance to distinguish these two sets of glands, as the superior alone communicate with the absorbents of the genital organs. The inferior set, on the contrary, communicating with the absorbents of the lower ex tremity, become inflamed in cases of wounds or diseases affectinir the foot, leg, or thigh; hence, if we meet with enlargement of these we should carefully examine the limb, and not attribute the swelling to any disease of the genital organs. Mistakes of a very serious nature have frequently arisen from overlooking this important distinction. The inguinal glands are liable to scrofulous and other indolent swellings; from their position in the trroin they may be mistaken for a femoral hernia, or from having pulsation communicated to them by the femoral arterv which lies directly beneath them, they may be confounded with femora aneurism. Abscesses, or ulcerations of these glands, have been known to make their way into the interior of the femoral arte, v and thus give rise to a serious hEemorrhafre reouir nri ti,,! operation of tying the external iliac artery for iS'supJreSi. On raising the superficial fascia, (which may be done with much facility, except opposite the cribriform fascia owing to the connection which exists between these two structures and the numerous vessels passing in and out at382 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. this point,) the fascia lata is exposed: this is a dense layer of fibrous aponeurotic structure which invests the thigh: externally it is much stronger than internally, where, in many cases, it is with difficulty distinguished. Infenorly the fascia lata is attached to the condyles of the temur and the different tendons around the knee-joint: a strong aponeurosis descends from it on either side of the patella and the ligamentum pateUse, and goes to be inserted into the spine of the tibia, where it is continuous with the fascia of the leg; as the fascia lata ascends upon the thigh it sends septa between the muscles, which form sheaths for these and binds them down ; on the posterior surface of the thigh it is attached to the linea aspera m its wliole length, as also to the tendon of the gluteus maximus and the short head of the biceps. Superiorly the fascia lata becomes attached on the posterior part to the sacrum and coccyx and the crest of the ilium; it is more thin and weak where it covers the glutseus maximus muscle, but at the anterior edge of this muscle becomes strong and well marked where it covers the tensor vagmse femoris and glutjeus medius. On the anterior part of the thigh the fascia lata is attached to Poupart's ligament, and inter- nally to the ramus of the ischium and pubis ; in the centre of this region, a short distance below Poupart s liganient, it leaves a small oval aperture closed up by the cribriform fascia, through which several veins and nerves pass m and out, and^ through which a femoral hernia frequently escapes; in other situations also, the fascia lata presents sma 1 foramina for the passage of veins or nerves to or from the integument. In some situations, and particu- arly on the outer side, the fascia lata may be divided into two laminee of fibres, the external of which take a cimilar or transverse course, the internal a longitudinal direction; opposite the hip-joint a deep process of ^ff''^^^ strength goes to be attached to the capsule of the joint and the outer head of the rectus muscle; the fascia lata binds down the muscles and vessels of the thigh, aff-ording points of attachment to some of the former. Wounds of the fascia lata, particularly those of a P"nctured nature are frequently followed by a severe inflammatjon beneath the fascia; sometimes, but rarely, this occurs without '^ny ^^^^ evident cause. In such cases, should the inflammation notARTERIA FEMORALIS. 383 j'ield to the judicious use of antiphlogistic remedies, a free and early incision becomes necessary, not only to give exit to any matter that may have formed, but also to relieve the tension of the fascia, and thus lessen the inflammation and alleviate the sufferings of the patient. Wlien the fascia lata has been raised, the femoral artery and vein, and the anterior crural nerve of the thigh, -will be brought into view by a very little further dissection. The femoral artery pursues its course through that part of the thigh which is generally known by the name of THE FEMORAL REGION. Although no natiural boundaries exist to separate this region from the others of the thigh, we may, for the purposes of description, consider it to comprise the anterior^ and inner part of the thigh, bounded above by Poupart's ligament, below by the knee-joint, and extending on either side as far as on a level with the femur. In this region are the principal vessels of the lower extremities : the first of those we shall proceed to is the ARTERIA FEMORALIS. The external iliac artery emerging from beneath Poupart's ligament enters the femoral region and here assumes the name of femoral; from Poupart's ligament, then the femoral artery passes obliquely downwards, backwards, and inwards, first lying on the anterior surface of the femoral region, then on its inner side, and finally, at the junction of the middle and inferior thirds of the thigh, it passes through a tendinous opening in the adductor mag- nus to the back of the thigh, where it enters the popliteal space and assumes the name of pophteal artery. A line drawn from midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis to the inner surface of the internal condyle, will nearly indicate the course of the artery. In this course the femoral artery has been divided into three stages, the first being its passage through Scarpa's triangle, the second from the apex of this triang e to the entrance of the vessel into Hunter s canal, and the third being its course in this canal.384 BEGIONAL AKD SURGICAL ANATOMY. Scarpa's triangle is that triangular space in the ante- rior and upper part of the thigh, which is bounded externally by the sartorius, internally by the adductor longus; its base is formed superiorly by Poupart's liga- ment, its apex below by the decussation of the sartorius and adductor longus. In this space, the most important of the stages ot the femoral artery, this vessel lies superficial, bemg covered only by the integument, superficial fascia, and fascia lata; it rests, first, on the psoas magnus which separates it from the hip-joint, next, on a number of vessels and some cellular substance which intervene between it and the insertions of the pectineus and adductor brevis, and lastly, on a portion of the adductor longus. To the inner side of the femoral artery, and on the same plane with it, lies the femoral vein, at least, near to Poupart's ligament; as we approach, however, the apex of the triangle, the femoral vein inclines to the posterior surface of the artery. The two vessels are enclosed in a funnel-shaped sheath, formed bv the fascia transversalis and the fascia ihaca, which descend from the pelvis, the former in front, the latter behind the vessels into the thigh, and are gradually lost at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle in the common sheath of the vessels ; the artery and vein are not m close contact in this sheath, being separated byathm but strong partition which passes behind from the fascia transversalis ?o the fascia iliaca. To the outer side of the femoral artery lies the anterior crural nerve; this, one of the largest of the branches of the lumbar plexus, descends frol beneath Poupart's ligament, between the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles, the former of which therefore, separates it from the femoral arteiT. JJ* subiects there is an interval, varying from half an inch to an inch, between the anterior crural nerve and the femoral artery, but in some few instances they are m close contact; in all cases a large branch, the internal saphenous nerve, descends from the anterior crural nerve, and soon applies itself to the outer side of the artery, and in its course down the thigh tlie vastus internus muscle is external to In'its^raid'lle stage, which extends from the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the commencement of Hunter s canal,ARTERIA FEMORALIS. 385 the femoral artery is more deeply situated, being covered by the integuments, superficial fascia, fascia lata, and the sartorius ; the femoral vein hes here posterior, but closely connected to it, and the saphenous nerve lies to its outer side, also in close contact with it. In its third stage the femoral artery lies in a tendinous canal, called after the celebrated John Hunter, who re- commended the femoral artery to be tied here for the cure of popliteal aneurism. This canal is triangular in shape, the apex is turned backwards towards the linea aspera, and is formed by the junction of the inner and outer walls of the canal; the base IS directed forwards, and is formed by a tendinous aponeurosis, which passes oS from the vastus internus to the adductor muscles ; its inner wall is formed by the adductor magnus and longus; its outer m all by the vastus internus. Ihe tendinous aponeurosis, which forms the base or root of Hunter's canal, varies much as to strength and extent, in some being strong and well marked, in T^JluT T7 f «»P<^rioriy it commences gradually, and frequently reaches close to the apex of Scarpa s triangle; but inferiorly terminates at the j unction of the middle and inferior thirds of the thigh, in a weU- defined semilunar edge, beneath which the internal saphe- nous nerve and a small artery pass. The femoral artery IS here a so covered by the sartorius. It lies within the canal with the internal saphenous nerve and the femoral vem, the former being in front, the latter behind the artery, but in close contact with it. At the lower part of phtea space, through an oval-shaped tendinous openiL bounded superiorly by the tendons of the adductorTon^S and magnus, externally by the vastus internus, in term! v by the tendon of the adductor magnus, and inlToZ bl maVnuT"^' tendons of the vastus^internus and addttoV All the principal branches of the femornl nvfo..,, one, namely the an astomica magna 17386 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 1. Arteria epigastrica superficialis, small in size, arises from the fore part of the femoral artery, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, runs forwards, pierces the fascia lata, turns upwards over Poupart's ligament, and ascends beneath the integuments towards tlie urabihcus -where it terminates. It is almost impossible to avoid this artery in the operation for the relief of either stran- gulated inguinal or femoral hernia; when wounded it should be secured with the ligature, if the haemorrhage be inconvenient. 2 and 3. Arterim pudicce swperficiales vel externa are generally two small branches, which arise near the pre- ceding, and run inwards, one superior perforates the fascia lata, crosses Poupart's ligament and the chord, and is distributed to the lower part of the abdomen and upper part of the genital organs; the other inferior perforates the fascia lata lower down, and is distributed particularly to the scrotum or labia. These arteries become much enlarged in any long-continued disease of the testis or scrotum, and will, if divided in any operation for he relief of such disease, require the application ot the ligature. They may also be divided in the operation for the relief of strangulated inguinal or femoral hernia. 4 Arteria circumflexa ilii externa, smaUer than the preceding, arises near them; it runs upwards and out- wards, pSraUel to and beneath Poupart's hgament, towards the crest of the ilium, where it is lost in the integuments and neighbouring muscles. i „ 5. Arteria profunda femoris. This, nearly as large as the continuation of the femoral artery arises from its ex- ternal and posterior part about one inch and a half oi two inches below Poupart's ligament, but much more ire- quently above thai below this point, ««t infrequently as high up as even above the ligament ; from this point th? profunda first passes outwards, then turns inwards and backwards, passing behind the femoral ai-tery, and separated from it by the femoral and profunda vems, and some small nerves, and then descends along the inner side of the femur, nearly parallel to but at «ome distan behind, the femoral, and a little below the middle of ti e thieh terminates m a muscular branch. In this course Jh? profunda artery first lies on the psoas and il.acARTERIA FEMORALIS. 387 muscles, and descends in front of the insertions of the pectineus and adductor brevis, behind the tendon of the adductor longus, to its termination. The profunda artery in the first part of its course only is superficial, being covered by the integument and fascia. The branches of the profunda are the two circumflex arteries, the three perforating arteries, and the terminating branch. ArtericB circumflexce. These arteries, two in number, arise some- times by a common trunk, sometimes separately, from nearly opposite points of the profunda, sliortly after its origin. The external circumflex artery is in general the first; it runs out- wards, between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, in front of the psoas and iliac muscles, and behind the sartorius and rectus, and soon divides into branches, some of which ascend beneath the sartorius and tensor vagina; femoris, pass between the gluteus medius and minimus, towards the crest of the ilium, where they terminate in the supply of the gluteal muscles, and by anastomosing with the circumflexa ilii and gluteal arteries; other branches take a circular course around the outer side of the thigh, perforating the muscles in this situation, and arrive at the back of the thigh, where they anastomose with the branches ot the gluteal, sciatic, and internal circumflex arteries; the pnncipal branches of the external circumflex artery descend accompanied by branches of the anterior crural nerve, sink between the crurajus and vastus externus, and terminate in the supply of these muscles, also the rectus and the vastus internus anastomosing in these with the muscular branches of the femoral artery, and the articular arteries of the knee-joint. The internal circumflex artery, passes from its origin inwards and backwards, above the trochanter minor, through a triangular space, bounded above by the obturator externus, externally by the neck of the femur, and psoas and iliacus tendons, and internaUy by the adductors, reaches the back part of the thieh between the lower margin of the quadratus femoris and the upper edge of the adductor magnus, and terminates by anas- tomosing with the branches of the external circumflex, Jluted sciatic, and perforating arteries. In this course, the internal circumflex artery gives off numerous branches to the pect S adduc or brevis, longus, and magnus, obturator anr g acil s muscles, in which they anastomose with branches from the obturator artery; one or two small branches proceed fmm it through the notch in the inner edge of the acetabnlnm W f the cotyloid ligament, to the suiiplv of thriii, 7' f ' head of the fem'ur. and synovial rnSrane tL'Z" ™ ' circumflex arteries are exceedino-iv i>-roJi P'-* ^"^ frequently arise from ^^t^J^^ ^^^V" Arteries perforantes. These arteries thron n " . acn part ot the thigh. Pri,na arises opposite the lesser tro-388 KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. chanter, passes backward between the pectineus and adductor brevis or sometimes through the latter, perforates the adductor magnus, and gams the back of the thigh. Secunda, larger than the preceding, perforates the adductor brevis, then the adductor magnus, and arrives at the back of the thigh. Tertia arises opposite the upper edge of the tendon of the adductor longus, perforates the adductor magnus, and gains the back of the thigh. The perforating arteries supply the muscles on the inside of the thigh ; they form a chain of anastomoses along the back part of the thigh with the gluteal, sciatic, and circumflex arteries, and the articular arteries of the knee-joint beneath, which is of essential service in restoring the circulation, when any of the principal arteries of the lower extremities has been tied. Some- times a fourth perforating artery exists. Arteria terminans is the last branch of the profunda, along the linea aspera, sometimes perforating the adductor magnus to reach the short of the biceps, where it anastomoses with the articular arteries. Arteria anastomotica magna arises from the femoral, as this vessel is about becoming popliteal; it descends in the substance of the vastus internus to the knee, where it anastomoses with the articular arteries. The saphenous nerve leaves the femoral artery at the lower part of Hunter's canal, and there joins the anastomotica magna, which it accompanies as far as the knee; this nerve afterwards escapes from beneath the tendon of the sartorius, and between the tendons of the gracilis and semitendiuosus on the inner side of the tibia, and then accompanies the internal saphena vein. The numerous branches of the femoral and profunda arteries which descend to the knee, become much enlarged in disease of this articulation : hence in amputations of the thigh, for long-continued disease of the knee-joint, most of these vessels will be found much enlarged, and will require to be secured with the ligature. "We may now proceed to consider the operations on the femoral artery. The femoral arterv is tied in its first stage, i. e. in Scarpa's triangle for the cure of popliteal aneurism. To perform this operation, place the patient in the recumbent position, with the limb nearly in a state of extension, and rotated slightly outwards. The course of the artery is at once recognised by the pulsation of the vessel, or, if this be not manifest, it may be ascertained by a line drawn from midway (in the line of Poup'art's ligament) from the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum and the symphysis pubis, to the internal condyle. Some have also recommended the innerAllTEllIA F.EMORALIS. 38y edge of the sartorius as a guide to the ai tery, but this is objec- tionable, as the muscle does not run parallel to the artei y. Make an incision through the integuments and fascia, about four inches in length, over the course of the vessel, commencing al)out two inches below Poupart's ligament. As the internal saphena vein lies to the inner side of our incision, we should take care not to cut it too much towards the inner side of the thigh. In this incision, some superficial blood-vessels and nerves will be wounded, and one or more of the inguinal glands brought into ■view; those maybe cut through with impunity. The edges of the wound having been separated, the fascia lata will be exposed. Make a small opening through this, and then introduce a director beneath it, and so divide the fascia to a sufficient extent. The sheath of the femoral vessels will soon be brought into view, and the artery recognised by its pulsation. Proceed to open the sheath with much caution. For this purpose pinch it up between the fingers, a little to the outer side of the artery; make a small opening into it, and through this introduce the director and slit open the sheath. The femoral artery being thus exposed, it should be separated from the vein on its inner side, and from the saphenous nerve on its outer side. There is little difficulty in doing this, as a septum exists between the artery and vein, and the nerve is seldom in close contact in this situation. The artery having been isolated, the aneurism needle is to be passed from within outwards, so as to avoid in- junng the vein. The place at which the ligature should be apphed is a short distance, say three inches, from Poupart's ligament: this is about one inch or one inch and a half below the origin of the profunda, as this vessel arises in general about one inch and a half or two inches from Poupart's ligament • and it IS necessary to have a portion of the femoral arterv intervening between the ligature and its origin, in order to allow of the for mation of an internal coagulum, and the subsequent obliteration of the femoral arteiy. The ligature should not be applied on the femoral artery above the origin of the profunda, as a sufficientlv free space does not exist here for its apphcation, in consequence of the origin of the super ficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflex ilii arteries. The ereat advantage of tying the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda is that by so doing, we avail ourselves of the important anastomosis of this vessel with the branches of the iliac arteries above, and the articular arteries around the knee-joint below by tTe 1 mb " R ""'"f- ""'^ ''''''^ lowe prrt of the hmb. Before applying the ligature, it should be ascertained by compressing the itrtery between the finger and thmnb that U commands the circulation in the aneurismil ,1^ instances the profunda arises from t~ " , S tZ::^ ligament and descending in a parallel direction, n ^v be nSe, font. A very remarkable case of this kind occurL to Sir C Bell, m which the two vessels communicated ii h thigh b o«390 EEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. the point, where the hgature was applied, and thus the operation was rendered of no avail. In the preceding description we have not spoken of the sartorius muscle, as we consider it can only serve as a guide, when it is our object to tie the artery at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle, where the sartorius approaches the femoral artery. Mr. Hunter first tied the femoral artery in the tendinous canal, formed between the triceps and the vastus internus muscles. This operation has been of late almost aban- doned, being liable to the following objections: the artery lies much deeper here than in Scarpa's triangle; it is also too near the diseased portion of the artery; the femoral artery and vein are in close contact, and the ten- dinous structure of the surrounding parts is unfavorable to the formation of granulations, and consequently to the healing of the wound formed by the operation. OPEEATION IN HUNTEU's CANAL. Place the limb in the semiflexed position, and resting on its outer side, make an incision about four inches in length along the middle third of the thigh, and over the course of the femoral artery. Some caution is necessary in making this incision, as the saphena vein lies but a short distance internal to this point. The integuments, superficial fascia, and fascia lata, having been cut through, the anterior margin of the sartorius will be exposed; this muscle should be drawn to the inner side, and the ten- dinous covering of Hunter's canal will be brought into view : this is to be cautiously cut through, when the femo- ral vessels aud the saphenous nerve will present them- selves ; the nerve will be found in front of the artery and the vein behind it. The artery and vein are here in close contact, and can with difficulty be separated; this having been accomplished, the aueurismal needle is to be passed round the artery, and the ligature secured. This operation is much more difficult than that of tying the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle. If the operator be not cautious he may mistake the vastus internus for the sartorius, and so proceed to separate the fibres of the former, until the appearance of the bone (as has occurred) informs him of his error. This mistake may be avoided bv paying attention to the course of the fibres of the391 GLUTEAL REGION. two muscles. It is possible, also, that the anastomotica magna artery may be mistaken for the femoral; but this is not likely, unless that vessel has become more than usually enlarged. The muscles, with their origin and insertion, and also the nerves within the femoral region, having been de- scribed in another part of this work, we shall now proceed to describe THE GLUJTEAL REGION. This region is situated on the back and upper part of the thigh, bounded superiorly by the crest of the ilium, internally and posteriorly by the sacrum, coccyx, and perineum, anteriorly by a line drawn vertically down- wards, from the spine of the ilium, and inferiorly by the fold of the nates; it is covered by the gluteus maximus and medius muscles. On raising the integuments from this region, several small nerves will be exposed; they are branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses and the sciatic nerve. Small arteries and veins are also met with, but they are of no practical importance. The superficial fascia covering this region is loaded generally with a large quantity of adipose tissue; on raising this the fascia lata is exposed. This is thin and weak posteriorly, where it covers the gluteus maximus, but is dense and strong anteriorly over the gluteus medius. On raising this, the muscles of this region may be examined : they are nine in number, viz.. Gluteus maximus. medius. minimus. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. inferior. Obturator extemus. internus. Quadratus femoris. In disease of the hip-joint the gluteus maximus muscle becomes relaxed, and its surface is flattened, and the fold of the nates sinks lower than on the opposite side; these symptoms are not confined to morbus coxa:, l)ut will be met with in many other affections, more particularly in paralysis of the limb. A deep fossa exists in the living subject behind the trochanter major; here issues are most frequently inserted in the diseaseREGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 392 named morbus coxse, or any other affection which may require a local irritant for its renaoval. On raising the gluteus maximus the following parts are brought into view from above downwards; the gluteus medius, the pyriformis, and between these, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve; below the pyriformis the great and lesser sciatic nerves pass out, as also the sciatic and pudic arteries; all these parts, with the ex- ception of the gluteus medius, escape through the great sciatic notch; below these are the superior gemellus, the obturator internus tendon (which passes out through the lesser sciatic notch where the internal pudic artery enters,) the inferior gemellus, the qnadratus femoris, and beneath these the tendon of the obturator externus. The tuber ischii, and the origins from it of the hamstring muscles, and the great sciatic ligament, are also seen in this dis- section. The muscles of this region are of much service in strengthening the hip-joint, hke the muscles on the anterior and inner part of the thigh which are attached to the pelvis ; they also serve to fix the pelvis on the lower ex- tremity when this itself is fixed, as in the standing position; most of the small muscles around the hip-joint are rup- tured in dislocation of this articulation. In dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium the head of the femur hes under cover of the gluteus maximus and medius, and on the torn fibres of the gluteus minimus ; in dislocation into the obturator foramen, the obturator externus is the only muscle relaxed. In the dissection of the preceding mus- cles several vessels and nerves of importance are met with; the principal arteries are the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery. The gluteal artery escapes through the upper part of the great sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, and accompanied by the superior gluteal nerve; it soon divides into numerous branches which are distributed to the muscles in the glu- teal region, and anastomose with the circumflexa ilii, cir- ciimflexa femoris, sciatic, and pudic arteries. The sciatic artery passes out also through the great sciatic notch, but below the pyriformis; it descends with the sciatic nerve between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and is distributed to the surrounding muscles ; the pudic artery passes out with the precediug, winds around the spine ofGLUTEAL REGION. 3[)3 ■ the ischium, and enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic uotcb, ascends forwards and inwards along the inner side of the tuber ischii, and the ramus of the ischium, and pubis, and is lost in the perineum and the organs of generation. Each of these arteries is accompanied by a corresponding vein which terminates in the internal iliac vein The principal nerves are the superior gluteal, the greater and lesser sciatic, and pudic. The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral; it passes out with the gluteal artery, and is lost in the gluteal muscles. The lesser sciatic or inferior gluteal nerve, is a branch of the sacral plexus; it passes out with the sciatic and pudic arteries, and soon divides into three branches: first, the gluteal is distributed to the gluteal muscles; the second, the pudic branch, winds round the tuber ischii and is lost in the integuments of the perineum and scrotum; the third, the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh descends, perfo- rates the fascia lata, and is lost in the integument cover- ing the back of the thigh, reaching as far down as the popliteal space; the pudic nerve is also a branch of the sacral plexus, and accompanies the pudic artery. The great sciatic nerve is the terminating branch of the sacral plexus • It escapes from the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic notch along with the sciatic and pudic arteries below the pyriformis, or sometimes between its fibres- descends between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter but nearer the former with the sciatic artery, restino- on the superior gemellus, the obturator internus, the inferior gemellus, and the quadratus femoris, covered by the glu taeus maximus, and surrounded by a large quantity of loose cellular tissue; it then descends between the biceps and semitendinosus muscles and enters the popliteal space where it terminates by dividing into two large trunks the internal and external popliteal nerves, which shaU be de- scribed when we consider that region. The great .ciatic nerve, as it descends in the thigh, sends off several bran h to the surrounding muscles and integuments Along the back of the thigh we meet with the three foUowing muscles, biceps, semitendinosus, semimembra- nosus; these three muscles, together with the gracil , for, the hamstring muscles. ^ v-iuo, luu . rm 17§394 UEGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. THE POPLITEAL REGION is a diamond-shaped space situated behind the knee-joint, bounded by the hamstring njuscles and the heads of the gastrocnemius. On raising the integuments which cover it, the posterior cutaneous nerve, a branch of the lesser sciatic, is exposed in the superficial fascia; beneath these, the popliteal space is covered by a dense layer of aponeurotic structure, the popliteal fascia, which is continuous above with the fascia lata, below with the fascia of the leg, on either side it is attached to the neighbouring tendons, the condyles of the femur, and the lateral ligaments of the knee-joint; the popliteal fascia binds down the tendons to which it is attached, and assists in protecting the popliteal vessels and nerves from injury; it is made tense by the contraction of the muscles. In the disease, popliteal aneurism, it has the effect of prevent- ing the enlargement of the tumour posteriorly, and thus causes it to ascend into the inner and lower part of the thigh ; it influences popliteal abscesses in like manner. Both these diseases, parti- cularly aneurism, are attended with much pain from the pressure of the popUteal nerves between the tumour and resisting fascia. On raising the fascia the pophteal space will be exposed; this extends upwards into the inferior fourth of the thigh, and downwards into the superior sixth of the leg, meeting at each extremity in an acute angle, so that the space seems composed of two triangles joined at their bases ; it is bounded on the outer side by the byceps tendon, on the inner side by the semitendinosus, gracilis, and semimembra- nosus, below on either side by the heads of the gastrocne- mius, and in front by the posterior surface of the femur, the back of the knee-joint, and the Ugameutum posticum of Winslow, the head of the tibia, and the popliteus mus- cle. This popliteal space is filled with a large quantity of adipose tissue, in which the popliteal vessels and nerves are imbedded. In the lower part of the popliteal space, and between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the external saphena vein ascends ; it dips into this space and joins the popliteal vein, and is accompanied by numerous absorbents -which ascend from the leg to join" the popliteal glands. The popliteal nerves lie superficial in thivs space; they are395 POPLITEAL AETERY. derived from the great sciatic nerve which enters the po- pliteal space at its upper part and divides into the external and internal popliteal nerves. The external popliteal or peroneal nerve, the smaller of the two, runs downwards and outwards along the external side of the popliteal space; descends between the tendon of the biceps and the outer head of the gastrocnemius ; turns forward, winds round the neck of the fibula beneath the peroneal muscles; gives off several branches to them, and terminates by dividing into two branches, the anterior tibial and musculo-cuta- neous nerves; in the popliteal space it gives off a branch which joins a similar branch from the internal popliteal nerve to form the external saphenous nerve. The internal popliteal, or posterior tibial nerve, descends vertically, and nearly in the centre of the popliteal space, lying supe- riorly to the outer side of the artery, but inferiorly to its inner side, and in more direct contact with it; the nerve passes from this space into the leg in which it descends with the posterior tibial artery, and finally terminates in the sole of the foot in the internal and external plantar nerves. In the popliteal space the posterior tibial nerve gives off several branches to the heads of the gastrocne- mius, as also a branch of considerable size, the communi- cans tibiae, which joins the corresponding branch from the peroneal nerve about the centre of the leg, to form the external saphenous nerve, which thence descends on the outer side of the leg and foot to be lost with the branches of the external saphena vein. On removing a quantity of fat which separates the po- pliteal nerve from the vein and artery, these will be exposed lying in direct contact, the vein being posterior or super- ficial to the artery and a little to its outer side at the upper part of the space. THE POPLITEAL ARTERY, the continuation of the femoral, enters the unner md inner part of the popliteal space on the internal surface of the femur through the opening already described in tlie iftTrl'' S"T ^"''.i!' "^""^ ""^^q^^'y downwards and outwards first, along the inner side and then along the centre of the pophteal space, and finally escapes from it by passing beneath a semilunar tendinous arch formed396 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. between the heads of the soleus muscle, and at the lower edge of the popliteus muscle terminates by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial artery. In this course the popliteal artery lies, first on the posterior surface of the femur with the intervention of a few muscular fibres and adipose tissue; in the middle on the ligamentum posticum of Winslow, from which it is frequently separated by one or two lymphatic glands;* and finally on the pophteus muscle ; it is bounded on either side by the lateral boun- daries of the pophteal space. The popliteal artery gives off five articular arteries and some muscular branches. 1 and 2. Arterica articuJares siiperiores, externa et interna. Ar-teria externa winds upwards and outwards from the popliteal artery above the external condyle of the femur close to the bone, supplies the neighbouring muscles on the extremity of the femur, and terminates by anastomosing in front of the patella with the other articu- lar arteries, the anastomotica magna from above, and the anterior tibial recurrent from below. Interna pursues a similar course to the preceding, but on the inner side of the femur, and terminates, like the other, on the anterior surface of the patella. 3. Arteria articularis media, yel azygos, proceeds from the anterior part of the popliteal artery, perforates the ligamentum posticum of Winslow, and supphes the in- terior of the knee-joint. 4 and 5. Arteries articulares inferiores, externa et interna. Externa runs upwards and outwards from the popliteal artery towards the outer side of the knee jomt, passes between the external lateral hgameut and the external semilunar cartilage in a groove in the latter, and terminates in supplying the knee-joint and surroundmg muscles, and in the anastomoses in front of the patella. Interna runs downwards and inwards below the internal condyle of the tibia, passes forwards between the internal lateral hgament and the bone, and terminates as the pre- * If one or both of these glands become enlarged, they may press backwards the popliteal artery, and thus form a tumour in the ham that may be niistfikeu for a popliteal aneurism; the diagnosis is not difficult. These glands sometimes suppurate and form a large abscess in the popliteal space.THE LEG. 397 ceding; all the articular arteries run very close to the knee-bones. These arteries are of much importance in re-establishing the circulation in the loM^er part of the limb, when the femo- ral artery has been tied for the cure of popliteal aneurism; they are, indeed, the only vessels of magnitude that are available for this purpose : hence, in all cases where the circulation in these is impeded, as occurs in large aneu- rismal tumours, the due supply of blood to the lower part of the limb is prevented, and mortification results. Besides the foregoing arteries, the popliteal sends off numerous branches to the surrounding muscles, more especially two, swales to the heads of the gastrocnemius. The popliteal artery may be tied in any part of its course by making an incision from three to four inches in length in the direction of the vessel, which shall cut through the integuments and fascia; the nerve being drawn out of the way, the popliteal vessels will he exposed by a little further dissection ; the artery being isolated, the ligature is to be passed round it and secured. If the operation is performed in the upper third of the popliteal space, the incision should be made along the outer border of the semimembranous muscle, which will lead directly to the artery. In the middle and lower thirds the incision should be made directly on the mesial line; in the latter operation the external saphena vein is endangered; the most convenient posture of the patient will be on the face. The operation of tying the popliteal arteiy is not to be recom- mended; the depth at which the artery lies, the contiguitv of the knee-joint, and the close connection between the artery and vein conspire to render it both a difficult and dangerous operation. The only cases which can possibly call for its performance are,— if wounded here,—in aneurism of the arteries of the leg 'or wounds of them from splinters of fractured bones; indeed, in the two latter cases we should prefer tying the femoral artery in its lower third. THE LEG. Raise the integuments from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the leg and dorsum of the foot, and tlie super- ficial fascia is exposed; ia this, two large superficial veins may he seen, the internal and external saphena veins. I he internal saphena vein, much the larger of the two commences by numerous small branches from the dorsum and inner aide of the foot: these unite in one trunk, which crosses the internal malleolus, sometimes behind it, as-REGIONAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 398 cends along the inner side of the leg a little behind the inner edge of the tibia, receiving in its course numerous branches from the integuments ; it then ascends over the internal condyle of the femur near its posterior part, enters the thigh, continues its course upwards along the inner surface of the thigh, ■where it becomes much increased in size from the addition of numerous branches, turns out- wards, perforates the cribriform fascia, and terminates in the femoral vein, an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. The external or posterior saphena vein, commences by small veins from the integuments, covering the heel and outer side of the foot ascends generally behind the external malleolus, sinks beneath the fascia of the leg, passes upwards between it and the gastrocnemius muscle along the posterior surface of the leg, and terminates in the popliteal vein: sometimes it joins the internal saphena vein in the leg: they always communicate freely. The ex- ternal saphena vein is accompanied by the external saphe- nous nerve, a branch formed from the posterior tibial and peroneal nerves. Several cutaneous nerves, in addition to the two saphe- nous, are met with in the superficial fascia ; the largest of these is the musculo-cutaneous nerve, a branch of the pe- roneal, which perforates the fascia on the anterior surface of the leg at the junction of its middle and inferior thirds, and descends to supply the integument on the dorsum of the foot. Beneath the superficial fascia lies the fascia of the leg ; this is derived superiorly from the fascia lata, and is con- tinuous with the tendons around the knee-joint. In the upper part of the leg it is attached to the heads of the tibia and fibula; from this it descends to cover the muscles of the leg, being attached to the margins of the tibia and fibula, until it arrives near the ankle-joint; it here becomes continuous with the annular Hgameuts of the articulation, and is attached to the external and internal malleoli. The fascia of the leg is stronger superiorly than inferiorly, and on the anterior than the posterior surface; it is wanting over the anterior surface of the tibia, and near the heel is irregular and indistinct; it here winds round the tendo Achillis, and becomes continuous with the fascia coveringTHE LEG. .399 the deep muscles of the leg. The fascia of the leg is of use in binding down the muscles ; it also affords origin to most of them, and sends in septa or partitions between them which become attached to the tibia and fibula. The annular ligaments are dense fibrous bands, which bind down the tendons in front of and behind the ankle- joint: they are two in number, the anterior and posterior. The anterior annular ligament passes across the extensor tendons and anterior tibial vessels and nerve; it arises internally from the internal malleolus and os naviculare, ascends outwards, and is implanted externally into the external malleolus and os calcis ; it is stronger here than internally, and extends above the ankle-joint; it forms three distinct sheaths for the passage of the tendons and ves- sels beneath it, and is lined by a synovial membrane Avhich is reflexed from it on the tendons, and continues for some distance on the dorsum of the foot. The posterior or internal annular ligament is broader and more dense than the anterior; it binds down the flexor tendons and posterior tibial vessels and nerve ; it stretches from the internal malleolus backwards and outwards to the inner surface of the astragalus and os calcis. Kaise the fascia from the anterior surface of the leg and the muscles between the tibia and fibula will be exposed • they are four in number, viz., ' Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Peroneus tertius. On the outer part of the leg are the two followino- 19P pa . O muscles Peroneus longus, Peroneus brevis. The muscles on the back of the leg are seven in num- ber and are divided mto two sets, a superficial and deep by the posterior tibial vessels and nerves and by the deep fascia; the superficial set consists of three muscles, viz.' Gastrocnemim, Salens, Plantaris.400 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The deep muscles are four, viz. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longiis digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis, Popliteus. On raising the soleus muscle the deep fascia of the leg is exposed: this covers the deep muscles and vessels of the leg; it descends superiorly from the expansion derived from the semimembranous muscle, and which covers the popHteus muscle ; is attached to the tibia and fibula, and to the deep muscles. Inferiorly it becomes strong, crosses the tendons of the deep muscles, and becomes attached to the internal annular ligament of the ankle-joint. Beneath the deep fascia of the leg lie the deep vessels and nerves of the leg. We shall now, therefore, proceed to the consideration of the vessels and nerves that supply the leg and foot, and then complete the anatomy of the popliteal artery, and, with it, of the vessels of the lower extremity. "We have stated that the popliteal artery divides at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries : of these the former is the smaller of the two and supphes the parts on the anterior surface of the leg and dorsum of the foot, while the latter supplies the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. We shall first describe THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. This artery passes directly forwards from the bifurca- tion of the popliteal, through the deficiency in the upper part of the interosseous membrane of the leg, close to the inner side of the neck of the fibula, and gains the anterior surface of the leg; it then descends inwards in front of and resting on the interosseous membrane, passes over the ankle-joint beneath the annular ligament, crosses the dorsum of the foot near to its inner edge, runs forwards, and gaining the cleft between the first and second meta- tarsal bones, divides into its two terminating branches, the arteria comnmnicans vel profunda, and the arteria pollicis. A line, drawn from the licad of the fibula to the base of the great toe, will run nearly parallel to the course of the anterior tibial artery. In the superior third of the leg theANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 401 anterior tibial artery lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; in the middle third also, it lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor polhcis, but in the lower third becomes more superficial, being thrown forwards by the lower extremity of the tibia on which it rests, and lies between the tendons of the extensor longus and the extensor pollicis, which do not conceal it like the fleshy fibres of the muscles; it is here covered by the skin and fascia only. As the anterior tibial artery crosses in front of the ankle-joint, it is but little removed from the synovial membrane of the articula- tion ; it is here covered by the bursa, which envelops the extensor tendons, and which not unfrequently commu- nicates with the joint. On the dorsum of the foot the anterior tibial artery is superficial, being covered only by the integuments, and crossed about the middle of the tarsus by the internal tendon of tiie extensor digitorum brevis; it here runs over the astragalus, navicular and internal cuneiform bones. The anterior tibial artery is accompanied by two vense comites, one on each side, and by the anterior tibial nerve, a branch from the external pophteal or peroneal nerve. This nerve, the smaller division of the sciatic nerve, we have already traced through the popliteal space; from this it winds around the neck of the fibula, gives off several branches to the peroneal muscles, and divides into its two terminating branches, the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerve Ihe anterior tibial nerve runs downwards and inwards joins the artery of the same name a little above the middle ot the leg, and accompanies it, first lying to its outer and then crossing to its inner side, to the dorsum of the foot Here the nerve divides into two terminating branches, the internal of which is lost in the extensor brevis the first interosseous muscle, and the integuments on the opposed surfaces of the great and second toes; the external branch IS ost in the extensor brevis and articulations of the toot. The musculo-cutaneous nerve descends between the extensor communis and peroneus longus muscle ne, forates the fascia of the le,^ at the junctfon o^th miS and niferior th.rds, oecomes superficial, descends to the dorsum of the foot, and terminates in the inte-rnments of the toes, anastomosing on each side with the inle S andREGIONAL AND SUllGTCAL ANATOMY. 402 external saphenous nerves. A few branches from the posterior tibial nerve accompany the anterior tibial artery- through the opening in the interosseous membrane. The anterior tibial artery, besides giving branches to the surrounding muscles, sends off the following branches: 1. Arteria recurrens proceeds from the anterior tibial artery, shortly after it has passed through the opening in the interosseous membrane; upwards and outwards through the fibres of the tibialis anticus muscle, sends branches to the integuments, and terminates in the anastomosis in front of the patella formed by it, the articular arteries, and the anastomotica magna. 2 and 3. Arteria malleolares, externa et interna, arise from opposite sides of the anterior tibial artery a little above the ankle-joint, descend to the malleolus on each side, and are lost in the integuments, in which they anastomose with each other, and with branches from the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. Arteria tarsi arises from the anterior tibial artery, as it crosses the os naviculare, proceeds outwards, and is lost in the integuments and muscles on the outer side of the foot. Arteria metatarsi arises a little in front of the pre- ceding, runs outwards across the heads of the metatarsal bones, supplies the articulations, and sends branches for- wards, which supply the three external interosseous spaces and muscles, and anastomose with the digital branches of the plantar arteries. The terminating branches of the anterior tibial artery are the two following: Arteria pollicisTp&sses forwards to the cleft between the first and second toes, and divides into two branches, one of which, the internal, supplies the integuments on the inner side of the great toe; the other, the external, supphes the integuments on the opposed surfaces of the first and second toes. Arteria communicans vel profunda passes directly through the first interosseous space, and joins the termiuatmg branch of the external plantar artery. From the superficial course of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot, it is here much exposed, and is frequently wounded; the general rule as to wounded arteries applies liere. The anterior tibial artery may require to be tied in the leg for403 AHTERIA TIBIALIS POSTERIOK. aneurism in its lower part. For this purpose an incision,.about tliree inches in length, should be made over the course of the artery through the integuments and fascia; the muscles now- being separated the artery will be exposed, and may be secured, avoiding the nerve and venae comites. In some cases the anterior tibial artery terminates a little above the ankle; its place ou the dorsum of the foot is then supplied by the anterior peroneal artery. When such a variety exists, it is evident that a ligature on the anterior tibial artery will have no effect on an aneurism on the dorsum of the foot. When the leg is amputated a short distance below the tubercle of the tibia, some difficulty is often experienced in securing the anterior tibial artery from its re- tracting through the foramen in the interosseous membrane; the membrane should be divided, when the artery will be exposed, and may be easily secm-ed. AETERIA TIBIALIS POSTERIOR. This is much larger than the anterior; it proceeds from the bifurcation of the popliteal artery downwards, and inwards along the posterior surface of the deep muscles of the leg, and beneath the deep fascia to the interval between the os calcis and the internal malleolus; it here turns forwards, enters the sole of the foot between the two heads of the abductor pollicis, and terminates bv dividing into the internal and external plantar arteries. In the upper and middle thirds of the leg the posterior tibial artery lies deep, being covered by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus muscles, and the deep fascia; in the lower third it is superficial, being covered only by the mteguments and superficial and deep fascia. It rests first on the tibialis posticus, then on the flexor communis, and beneath this on some fat and cellular tissue, which separate it from the tibia and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior tibial artery is accompanied throughout by two venae comites, one on each side, and by the posterior tibial nerve. This nerve, the continuation of the internal pophteal, Ues to the outer side of the artery and between the internal malleolus and heel,—is nearer to the latter than to the artery. In the fossa between the malleolus mternus and os calcis the order of parts from the one eminence to the other is, tibialis posticus tendon, flexor longus tendon, posterior tibial artery and vens^ comites, posterior tibial nerve, flexor longus pollicis tendon, plantans tendon, and tendo AchilUs404 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The posterior tibial nerve terminates like the artery in the sole of the foot by dividing into two branches, the internal and external plantar nerves. Besides numerous branches to the surrounding muscles and integuments, the posterior tibial artery gives off the foUowing important branch. Arteria peronea arises from the posterior tibial artery, a short distance below the popliteus muscle, runs obliquely downwards and outwards towards the fibula, descends along the internal margin of this bone, close to the inter- osseous membrane, and a little above the ankle di\ades into its two terminating branches, the anterior and pos- terior fibular arteries. The anterior passes forwards through the interosseous membrane, and joins the branches of the anterior tibial artery; in some cases this artery supplies the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. The posterior descends behind the external malleolus, and terminates by sending branches to the surrounding parts, and by anastomosing with branches from the pos- terior tibial and malleolar arteries. The posterior tibial artery divides between the origins of the abductor pollicis into the internal and external plantar arteries. Arteria plantaris interna, smaller than the externa,, runs forwards along the internal and inferior surface of the tarsus, under cover of the abductor polHcis muscle, as far as the great toe, which it supphes; several branches also proceed from this artery to the surrounding muscles and integuments, which anastomose with the branches from the external plantar artery. Arteria plantaris externa pursues a curved course in the sole of the foot, so as to form an arch, called the plantar arch, the convexity of which is directed forwards and outwards, the concavity in the contrary direction. From the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, the external plantar artery passes first downwards, forwards, and out- wards, between the first and second layer of muscles in the sole of the foot, as far as the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone ; it then turns inwards and upwards, in nearly a transverse direction, and terminates in the cleft, between the first and second metatarsal bones, by anastomosing with the deep branch of the anterior tibial artery. In thisARTJCRIA TIBIALIS POSTERIOR. 405 latter part of its course, it runs first between the flexor digitorum brevis and abductor minimi digiti, covered only by the integuments and fascia; but afterwards sinks deep m the sole of the foot, between the adductor pollicis and transversalis pedis, covered by the short and long flexor tendons and the lumbricales. The plantar arch besides givmg several branches to the muscles and other soft parts in the foot, sends off the following • Arterice perforanies proceed from the upper surface of the plantar arch, supply the interossei muscles, and anastomose mth hranches from the anterior tibial artery. Arteri^ digitales, four in number, arise from the convexity of the plantar arch; the first supplies the outer side of the little toe, the second, third and fourth, run forwards to the clefts between the fourth and fifth, third and fourth, second and third toes where each divides into two branches, which supply the opposed sur! faces of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes, near the anterLr extremity of each of which they anastomose fredy together The plan tarartenes are accompanied by the plantar nerve!; these are the termmating branches of the posterior tibial ne^ve which b^urcates also between the origins of the abductor pdlicis S two branches, the internal and external plantar nerves The plantar nerve is the larger of the tv^o; it passel forwards above the abductor pollicis, and supplies the first seLnr /nH third toes, and the inner half of the firth toe, a fn'g the fdes of which the branches of nerves accompany the digUd arteries to the pulp of the toes, in which they'are lost, as°in the fingers The external plantar nerve accompanies the plantar arch of artenes and is lost in the supply of the Uttle toe and the outer half of the fourth toe. The plantar nerves, in their course to th^ toes.^send off numerous branches to the musde^iu ^sole o? The posterior tibial artery may require to be tied in any part of its course when wounded, for the cure of aneurism, the Lnse„!ence of disease or of accident. This is an extremdv diffinnif ^ ! shouM be found neceLary, ^\;4^Z^^^l^-, and a little behind the inner'edge o ?!" t.V'"^^' ^'""^ being divided, the internal sapLna ve „ S be 1 '"*'=f'™ent8 this to the inner side, divide the f^sr-i T ''V^PO'^^d; draw nemius muscle, and the oridn of 7l , J'''" S^^stvoc now present itself. and\\oTlfl"L° u 'tV^ r.'rL*'''' T aponeurotic attacbmcnt of this muscle to S'f ''"'"^ tins, the raistalcen for the deep fascia- the sole,.! i. I iua.,ia, lue soleus being raised, and di-u rawu406 REGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. from the bone, the fingers may be passed between the two layers of muscles, and the posterior tibial artery may be felt pulsating beneath the fascia; this being cut through, the aneurism needle is to be passed from without inwards, taking care to avoid the posterior tibial nerve and the venaj comites. From the great depth at which the artery lies, and its proximity to the hone, much difficulty is exiierienced in effecting this object; so much so, that it has been found necessary to pass a curved needle into the wound, and thus secure the artery; this plan is evidently objectionable, as the nerve may be included with the artery, or wounded by the needle. Mr. Guthrie recommends the posterior tibial artery to be tied by cutting through the gastrocnemu muscles from behind, to the extent of several inches if necessary. Between the internal malleolus and os calcis, or a httle above this point, the posterior tibial artery is comparatively superficial, and may be tied by making an incision, somewhat semilunar in shape, over the course of the artery, and nearly midway between the two bonv eminences mentioned, but a little nearer the ankle, xhe integuments and fascia, which is here of great strength, having been cut through, the artery will be soon brought into view in company with its nerve and venaa comites. Pass the aneurism needle from behind forwards, to avoid the nerve and secure the If above the ankle, the posterior tibial artery may be secured by making a nearly straight incision parallel to and along the inner side of the tendo AchiUis. It is in this situation that the pos- terior tibial artery is secured in cases of wounds of the plantar arteries As we have elsewhere observed, when either the palmar or plantar arch is wounded, the practice is (not as in other cases of wounded arteries, when the wounded vessel is cut down upon • and secured,) to tie the artery leading to the injured vessels, as the cutting into the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot, amongst so many tendons, nerves, and vessels, would most pro- bably be followed by a dangerous inflammation. \^ hen the pos- terior tibial artery is affected with aneurism in the upper third of the leg, the popliteal or fen^o'-^l artery should be secured. The perone;i artery lies so deep, and is so secured behind he fibula that it is almost precluded from any interference on the part of the surgeon. Mr. Hey relates a case, in which he sawed out a portion of the fibula in order to tie the vessel; such practice is not to be recommended. Both the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries are frequently injured by spicute of bone m fractures ot the tibia or fibula. In these cases, if there be no actual wound, the limb becomes distended, and mortification of tlie leg tre- quently results. The opinion of surgeons is dmded as to tne practice that should be adopted in such cases; some advocate me amputation of the limb, while others contend that thc^ tying oi the popMteal or femoral artery may be resorted to. ^ either ot these operations should be performed where only a moderate quantity of blood is effused, as it may probably be only a branchPLANTAR BEGIDN. 407 of one of the arteries of the leg which has been wounded and not the trunk itself; the effused blood may then become absorbed, and the wound in the vessel closed. The numerous tendons around the anide-joint add much to the security of this articulation ; thus it is protected behind and towards the inner side by the tendons of the tibiahs posticus, flexor communis, and flexor pollicis; and by the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis, exter- nally, so that dislocation is rendered almost impossible in this direction; secured too in front by the ligaments and the greater width of the astragalus, this articulation eniovs that degree of security which is so necessary to one upon which the whole weight of the body is thrown. The tendons around the articulation, by the yielding of the muscular fibres connected with them, communicate also to It a degree of elasticity, which adds much to the srace and ease of motion, so essential to perfect progression. PLANTAR REGION, OR SOLE OF THE FOOT. The integuments covering the sole of the foot are remarkable for their great density and strength, even at the earhest periods of life, particularly in thos^e situation where they are most exposed to pressure, viz., over the heel, the outer side of the foot, and across the articulations between the metatarsus and phalanges. Beneath these a large quantity of dense granulated adipose substance exists, which serves as an elastic cushion to bear off" the effects of violent shocks, communicated in active exertion fibrous bands pass from the granulated fat which connect It to the plantar aponeurosis: this fat is most abundant where the greatest pressure is exerted on the foot On removing this the plantar aponeurosis or fascia is brnnaif into view. This is a dens^ layer of fibrous aponeuS structure, triangular in shape, which invests theCft 2 s m the sole of the foot; it arises, narrow but st on/pfs teriorly, from the os calcis, passes forwards exSC" and near the metatarso-phalangeal articulatinn?. nto five distinct processes each of whid at i 1, h^'^'' mto two portions, which pass forward^Ld ^ t into the lateral ligaments of theTrH.M . ^i'^*""*^^ Bheaths of the flex'or tendons, p at ""0'"' sends in septa between the rnn.Z.'itZ Zr^^^T,408 KEGIONAL AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. into the under surface of the tarsus and metatarsus, and divide the fascia into three tolerably distmct portions ; of fhese the middle .s the strongest and most m erxor the internal is the weakest and most superior, ihe libres ot the plantar fascia are chiefly longitudinal; but antenorly fome^ transverse ones exist, which serve the purpose o connectin.^ the longitudinal fibres; its under surface is smooth and glistening, its upper is rough and gives origm 0 muscular'fibres. °The ni^ of the P^-tar aponeuros is to preserve the arch of.the foot, and to protect the sott parts above it from undue pressure. On removing the plantar fascia, the soft parts m the sole of the foot a?e exposed. The muscles of this region are divided into four layers ; in the first or superficial layer are Abductor pollicis, Flexor digitorum brevis, Abductor minimi digiti. In the second layer are Long flexor tendons, Musculus aceessorius, Lumbricalcs. The third layer comprises Flexor poinds brevis, Adductor poUicis, Transversalis pedis. Flexor minimi digiti. The fourth layer consists of the Interossei muscles, Peroneus longus tendon. These muscles are also divided into three compartments, an^n ernd, middle, and external, by ^1^^ P'- ^ --"^.^ ThP difi-erent muscles and tendons m the sole ot tne foo" thdr oblique direction and decjsating with each other, assist in preserving the ^rche of the foot and keeping the bones in their proper position By tbe elasticity, too, which they communicate to the parts tbe foot enjoys that degree of alternate Yielding and res stance which render it so well adapted to support t e ^^e^^^^^^^ the body, and prevent shocks, as in leaping, f^^^^ from being transmitted upwards to the and Pma martow, so likely to be injured by any violent commotion of the body.PHYSIOLOGY. 181Caseine ... 400 ... 310 ... 50 120 1 8H0ET NOTES ON PHYSIOLOGY. Physiology is generally considered to embrace the de- scription of the various vital functions of the parts com- posing the human body, as well as the more intimate structure of the parts themselves; the relations of these parts to each other being referred to descriptive anatomy, and their chemical composition to animal chemistry. Before commencing the description of the tissues which lorm the human body, it will be as well to mention briefly the more striking peculiarities of the organic substances, ot wliich these tissues are buUt up, and briefly describe the cliemical composition of each. The organic components of the human body may be divided into two kinds, one of which contains nitrogen and is therefore called azotised, the other containing no nitrogen, called non-azotised. The former class conipre- hends the more striking constituents of the body, the latter those substances only which are laid up for 'future con- sumption or secreted for present use. AZOTISED SUBSTANCES. Foremost among these must be placed the compounds ot a base called proteine. This substance, with a small quantity of phosphorus and sulphur, forming the three substances, of which a very large portion of the body is composed. The following table will show the composiUo oi proteine and its compounds, according to Mr. Fownes : Carbon. Hydrogen. Nitrogen. Oxygen. Sulphur. Proteine ... 400 ... 31O ... 50 ipn Albumen... 400 ... 310 ... 60 ""■ 120 ~o Fibrine ...400 ... 310 ... H JoJ fPHYSIOLOGY. 412 Besides which albumen and fibrine each contain one equivalent of phosphorus. Proteine may be procured by dissolving albumen, fi- brine, or caseine, in caustic alkali, and then treating them with a slight excess of acid, on which proteine falls as a white flocculent precipitate. It has no taste, and is in- soluble in water, but soluble in acetic acid or dilute alkalies. Proteine combines with oxygen, forming a binoxide and tritoxide. The former is soluble in water, the latter not. Proteine also appears to form a compound with chlorine. Albumen exists naturally in solution in the blood and most other fluids of the body. It is very abundant in the white of egg. Its solubility appears to depend on a small quantity of soda, with which it exists in combination. At a heat of 157° F., when concentrated, it coagulates, forming a hard, white, opaque, insoluble mass, its composition, however, remaining unchanged. Albumen is precipitated by many metalHc salts, as well as by sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, and metaphosphoric acids ; but not by acetic or tribasic phosphoric acids. Alcohol, tincture of galls, and tannic acid, also throw down precipitates. Its com- position per cent, is — Carbon .... 54-84 7-09 15-83 21-23 •33 -68 Hydrogen Nitrogen . Oxygen . Phospliorus Sulphur . 100- The presence of sulphur in albumen is shown by the black colour given to a silver spoon by an egg, as well as by the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen evolved during its decomposilion. Fibrine is found in the body in two states, fluid in the blood, solid in the muscles; the latter, when well washed, aff"ord fibrine, though in an impure state and mixed with membrane, nervous matter, and fat. Fibrine can be best obtained in a purer state by agitating the blood, during coagulation, with a bundle of small twigs, or by washing the clot after coagulation, with water and ether. Fibrine possesses the property of spontaneously coagulating on413 AZOTISED SUBSTANCES. removal from the body, and oa this depends tlie coagula- tion of the blood. It is also coagulated immediately on the addition of heat, alcohol, corrosive sublimate, &c. It is known from albumen by its forming a precipitate with common phosphoric acid. In 100 parts it contains— Carbon . Hydrogen Nitrogen . Oxygen . Phosphorus Sulphur . 54-46 6-90 15-72 22-13 ' -33 •36 100- Caserne differs but Uttle in its properties from albumen, being like it precipitated by the metallic salts. It is however, distinguishable from it by yielding a precipitate with acetic acid, and when heated shrivelling to a trans- lucent mass. It exist in large quantity in milk, from which It may be separated by sulphuric acid and alkalies alter- nately precipitating, redissolving, and filtering it until pure It IS coagulated also by animal membranes, and on this property depends the formation of cheese, the precipitant appearing to be an acid readUy formed under such cir- cumstances, and called lactic. Its composition appears Carbon . Hydrogen Oxygen Nitrogen Sulphur 54-96 7-15 15-80 21-73 -36 100- H<^matosine(ov Hcematine), the colouring matter of the blood differs but httle from the proteiife compounds excepting that it contains the oxide of iron. From this circnmstance it was at one time supposed that thriroi rce tm ZtTir^^P^^ since tound that there are some animals in which the blood fo^»>.ch a„ effect. TLe eomp„,i,i„„\fPHYSIOLOGY. 414 Carbon . Hydrogen Nitrogen . Oxygen . Iron 66-49 5- 30 10-50 1105 6- 66 100- Gelatine is found in its purest state in isinglass (the swimming bladder of the sturgeon), it exists in the skin, the bones, tendons, cartilages, ligaments, and membranes, ■ but not in the healthy fluids of the body. It is soluble in hot -water, becoming more solid in cooling. It becomes brittle -when the water is expelled, as in glue. It is in- soluble in alcohol, miscible with or soluble in weak acids and alkalies, has a weak afiinity for metallic oxides, and forms a dense precipitate with tannic acid, called tanno- gelatine, the base of leather. Its composition per cent, is— Carbon .... 50-05 Hydrogen . . • 6-07 Nitrogen . . . .18-35 Oxygen .... 25-13 100- from which it has been considered to be formed by— Carbon, 13; Hydrogen, 10; Nitrogen, 2 ; Oxygen, 5 ; it will thus be seen to have no relation with the proteine compounds. Chondrine differs but little in its properties and compo- sition from gelatine, but is distinguished from it by giving a precipitate with oxide of lead. It is found in the carti- lages of the ribs and joints. Its formula is— Carbon, 16; Hydrogen, 13; Nitrogen, 4; Oxygen, 7. Urea, a substance found in considerable quantity in the urine, is colourless and transparent, with a very faint smell and cool saline taste, very soluble in water, less so in alcohol, has no action on htmus or turmeric paper, and by heat is decomposed and resolved into carbonate of ammonia. It is the medium by which the excretion of nitrogen from the system takes place. Its composition is found'to be— Carbon, 2; Hydrogen, 4 ; Nitrogen, 2 ; Oxygen, 2.NON-AZOTISED SUBSTANCES. 415 It is similar in compositiou to the hydrated cyanate of ammonia. Uric acid is another azotised substance always existing in small, sometimes in large, quantities in the urine. It is very sparingly soluble in water, and is generally combined with some alkah in the urine. It gives a magnificent purple colour when mixed with nitric acid and exposed to heat. Its formvda is,— Carbon, 10; Hydi-ogen, 4; Nitrogen, 4; Oxygen, 6. Choleic acid, the peculiar acid of the bile in which it exists, combined with soda, is composed of— Carbon, 44; Hydrogen, 40; Nitrogen, 1; Sulphur,!; Oxygen, 9. NON-AZOTISED SUBSTANCES. These are the various fats, the secretions of the sebaceous glands, sugar, butter, and certain salts, though some of these are only found in diseased secretions. Certain alkahes and acids are sometimes found in excretions, but mostly when these are in a more or less diseased condition. The fats may be considered as substances secreted to supply the waste of the body caused by respiration and the production of animal heat; for when an animal is limited in its supply of food, the adipose substance quickly disappears; and those animals which hybernate are ob- served to be quite fat when they first begin to sleep, and are considerably reduced by the time that winter is over. Animal fats and oils are composed of three proximate principles, called margarine, oleine, and stearine, each of these being formed by a pecuHar base, called glycerine, allied with either margaric, oleic, or stearic acids. The union of these acids with a free alkaU, and with the separation of glycerine, constitutes the formation of soap. The composition of these substances is the following : Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. Water. Glycerine ...6 ... 8 ... 6 Margaric acid . . 34 ... 33 . ', 3 "" j Stearic acic . . 68 ... 66 ... 5 2 Oleic acid ... 44 ... 39 \ \ \ 4 "" y Sugar is found in the milk of the female; and in the416 PHYSIOLOGY. urine in the disease called diabetes mellitus. Milk sugar is composed of 24 carbon, 24 hydrogen, and 24 oxygen. Diabetic sugar contains, carbon 24, hydrogen 28, oxygen 28. Diabetic sugar resembles grape sugar in its leading properties, and is distinguished from ordinary cane sugar by being much less soluble in water, by tasting much less sweet, by crystallising with difficulty, and not being blackened by sulphuric acid. Butter is found to contain four fatty acids, called butyric, capric, caproic, and caprylic. Of these, the first is the most important, and contains— Carbon, 8; Hydrogen, 7; Oxygen, 3; Water, 1. Cholesterine (bile-fat) is the peculiar fatty substance found in the bile in small quantities, and forming one of the principal constituents of gall stones. It was at one time supposed to contain nitrogen. Its formula is— Carbon, 36; Hydrogen, 32 ; Oxygen, 1. To describe the chemical nature of the salts existing in the body, would be trenching too much on chemistry, and would exceed the limits afforded by this work. THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECRETIONS AND EXCRETIONS. Blood, when first drawn from an animal, appears to be a homogeneous, opaque, red-coloured fiuid, but when allowed to rest for a short time, separates into a firm, elastic, opaque red mass, called the clot or crassamentum, and a yellowish semi-transparent fluid, called the serum. Tbe crassamentum is formed by the red and many of the white corpuscles of the blood being enclosed in a remarkably compact but fine network, foi-med by the spontaneously coagulating fibrine, whilst the serum contains the remaining ingredients of the blood. The blood, whilst in the vessels, is considered as composed of corpuscles and plasma, whilst after coagulation it contains the clot (which is formed by the corpuscles, plus the fibrine,) and the serum, (which is the plasma, minus the fibrine.) The composition of the blood is:COMPOSITION OP SECRETIONS AND EXCRETIONS. 417 Water . . . . 780-15 Colouring matter . . . 133. Albumen .... 65- Salts and Iron . . . 10'47 Crystallizable fat . . . 2-43 Fibrine . . . . 2'10 Extractives . . , Fluid fat . . . . 2'31 Albumen in combiuation with Soda . 1-26 Loss . . . _ 2-40 1000- Besides the above, it contains a peculiar halitus, the composition of which is unknown, and a quantity of gas m solution, that in the blood of the arteries being oxygen and carbonic acid, whilst that in the veins is found to be ^n-V*'"'''rrf^P^"^'' S^^^^ty of the blood averages 1UD5. Ihe proportions of its ingredients vary materially m dilierent chmates, in different temperaments, in different ^fr^ 'i^fferent sexes, and at different times I J''''^ o°ly is the quantity of blood in the whole system less than in men, but that blood is, as a rule, much weaker as regards the solid constituents, and much more aqueous; every one knows the difference of the quahty and quantity of the blood in the sanguineous phlegmatic, and melancholic temperaments, and its different density in infancy, childhood, manhood, and old age. The blood also in fevers, rheumatism, and pregnancy, is found to contain less of the corpuscles and more of the fibrine than usual, the one having (it is supposed) increased at the 7tT:i .''^'V '^^P^^ds the formation nresent, ' ^""^ '"PP'*^ appearance that the clot presents in the cases above mentioned Saliva consists chiefly of water and mucus, but contains also phosphate, sulphate, lactate, and carbon;te of potaT chloride and sulphocyanide of potassium, phosphate of lime, and a trace of soda. It is the sulphJclanide that gives a red colour with the persalts of iron and;t:piir;::fir.^"-^-ate Pancreatic juice somewhat resembles 'snlivn Jfo „ i properties, but is distinguished Tom the It '1^'°""^ taming albumen and os^mazome, Xch'a^rett foLdTn 18 §PHYSIOLOGY. 418 the saliva, and by not containing any of the sulphocyanide of potassium. Bile is a fluid of a yellowish-green colour darkening by exposure to the air. It has a disagreeable odour, a nauseous bitter taste, is distinctly alkaline, and mixes with water in all proportions. The most recent analyses represent it as composed of water, colouring matter, cholesterine, choleic acid, and soda. The cholesterine being however in very small proportion, it may be considered essentially as a choleate of soda. Gall stones consist of adipocire and cholesterine, with a small quantity of salts and colouring matter. Chyle differs but little from the blood as regards its composition and properties, containing a fluid or plasma, and numerous semitransparent white corpuscles. Like the blood it coagulates, but much less firmly and more slowly. It owes its white colour to numerous fat globules suspended in the liquid. The same phenomenon has been sometimes observed in the blood itself. Chyle appears to be blood in an early stage of formation. Milk is a semi-opaque white fluid, with a slight odour, and a sweetish agreeable taste. It consists of a transparent fluid or plasma and transparent corpuscles, the colour of the fluid depending on the peculiar refraction of light. In its composition it forms a type of a perfect food, as it contains an azotised material (caseine), and two non- azotised, the one fatty, the other saccharine. Among the salts which it contains, the most important is the phos- phate of lime, which is required for the bones of the young animal, and is held in solution by the caseine. The caseine of milk is held in solution by the presence of a small quantity of soda. In 1000 parts, cow's milk contains : Water . • • Caseine . Milk-sugar Butter . Phosphate of Lime . • „ of Magnesia „ of Iron . Chloride of Potassium „ of Sodium Soda, in combination with Caseine 873- 48-20 43-90 30- 2-31 •42 •07 1-44 •24 •42 1000-COMPOSITION OV SECRETIONS AND EXCllETIONS. 419 Human milk differs but slightly from the foregoing, con- taining more sugar and less butter and caseine. Human milk is remarkable for its difBculty of coagulation. Clriite is a limpid yellowish fluid, with a slightly acid reaction, and averaging in specific gravity 1-022. It is speedily decomposed by exposure to air and heat, am- monia being generated in great abundance. The urine may be looked upon as the great outlet for nitrogen from the system. It removes also water and foreign soluble matters that get into the blood. The average quantity of urine voided daily in health is about 32 ounces. The analysis according to Berzelius is the following : Water • . . . 933- Urea . . . ; 30-10 Lactates and extractives . . 17-14 Sulphates of Potash and Soda . . 6-87 Chloride of Sodium . .4-45 Phosphate of Soda . . . 2-94 „ of Ammonia . . i-gs „ of Lime and Magnesia . 1- Hydrochlorate of Auimonia . .1-5 Uric acid. . . _ j. Mucus of bladder . . . .32 Silica ... -n^i 1000- In a diseased state the urine may contain other com- ponents, such as albumen, sugar, or sulphuric acid. Bile is also sometimes observed, and frequently uric acid is found in increased quantity. The sweat appears to consist of water and salts, together with certain gases; nitrogen also appears to be evolved though m much less quantity than in the urine. From the difficulties attending such a subject, the composition of the sweat has not been fully ascertained. The secretion of the sebacic glands has not vet been examined. Mucics differs greatly in its qualities, according to the part from which it has been effused; it is insoluble, although miscble with water, soluble in alkalies but pre- cipitated by acids. The mucus of the nose contains water raucous matter, salts of soda, potash and lime, albumen and animal matter. *420 PHYSIOLOGY, Pus is ordinarily a viscid liquid of a creamy colour and consistence, inclining to a yellowish-green, opaque and homogeneous. It is inodorous, possessing a feeble taste, neither acid nor alkaline, though it becomes acid on exposure to the air with the disengagement of ammonia. Examined by the microscope it appears to be composed of a fluid and corpuscles. It is not soluble in water, sub- siding after a time. "When pus and mucus exist together in a fluid the former falls, the latter remaining in a state of suspension. Pus is coagulable by heat and diluted acids. It is soluble in strong nitric or sulphuric acids. Brunefield asserts that whilst pus is coagulated by boiling with hydrochlorate of ammonia, mucus forms a mucUaginous liquid with it. Caustic alkali does not coagulate pus but forms with it a gelatinous mass capable of being drawn out into threads. This is one of the best means of dis- tinguishing it from mucus. Chalk stones, or gouty concretions, are composed almost entirely of uric acid, combined with soda. Syjiovia is composed of water, fibrinous matter, albumen, and salts of soda and lime. The tears contain albumen, mucus, water, and several neutral salts. Gastric juice having been obtained by Dr. Beaumont m a much more separate and pure state than previously, its composition may be stated with considerable accuracy to be.as follows: Free Hydrochloric and Acetic Acids; Phosphates of Soda, Potash, Magnesia, and Lime; Hydrochlorates of the same bases ; Pepsin, Animal matters, and Extractives. Among the constituents of the gastric juice just mentioned, the pepsin, to which a very prominent position has been assigned by some authors, has been considered as of no particular importance by others, and, indeed, its very existence has been sometimes entirely denied by certain physiologists. _ . The following is the chemical composition of the prin- cipal tissues of the body. This is composed of two principal portions, the earthy and animal. The former is easily removed by hydrochloric acid, the latter is entirely destructible byCOMPOSITION OF SEOKETIONS AND EXCRETIONS. 421 heat. The bones of the adult, however, are much richer in earthy matter than those of the child, some bones of the body containing also more earthy substance than others. The analysis of bone, by Berzelius, yields— Phosphate of Lime, with a little Fluoride of Calcium 53*04 Carbonate of Lime . . . . 11-30 Phosphate of Magnesia . . .1-16 Salts of Soda .... 1-20 Gelatine (soluble in water) . . . 32*17 Vessels, &;c. .... 1-13 100- The Teeth, though very similar in composition, do not contain so much animal matter; the enamel of the teeth is almost exclusively formed by the salts of lime, the animal portion not constituting 5 per cent. Muscle is composed chiefly of fibrine, with gelatine, osmazome, albumen, neutral salts of soda, lime, and ammonia, and some nervous matter and blood. ' • The brain and nervous matter consist of water, white fatty matter, albumen, osmazome, phosphorus, salts' acids, and sulphur. Two new fatty acids have recently been discovered in the brain, Viz.,—cerebric and oleophosfhoric, the composition of which is as yet but very imperfectly known. ^ Tendons are composed almost exclusively of gelatine. Ligaments and membranes are composed chiefly of coagulated albumen and gelatine. Most of the cartilages of the body contain gelatine, but in those of the ribs and joints it is replaced by an analogous, though slightly diff-erent substance, called chondrine. The 7iails are composed of coagulated albumen, gelatine salts earthy matter, and a very sma^l quantity of water ' The humours of the eye consist of water, albumen animal matter, resembling gelatine, and several neutral DESCllirTION OF THE STRUCTURE OP THE TISSUES. Every part of the animal body may be considered as developed from cells ; these cell., by a variety of changes,422 PHYSIOLOGY. becoming finally converted into the various structures, such as bone, cartilage, muscle, ligament, &c. Each cell has a proper investing membrane, or cell-wall, enclosing contents which may be fluid or sohd ; each cell in addition contains generally one or more nuclei. In the most simple modifications of cells there is hardly any discernible difference between the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Each cell appears to have the property of secretion and nutrition,—that is to say, it can secrete or form new con- tents varying in properties, or it can enlarge, alter, or develop its form through a long series of changes, termi- nating in permanent structure. Cells also appear to be capable of reproduction, i. e., one cell can develop one or more new cells either within or outside of its own proper coat. It may be considered that the peculiar properties of cells do not come into action except under the influence of the vital stimulus. The vital principle of cells of vegetables may, however, remain dormant for years and yet be eventually awakened by a combination of circumstances, but that of the cells composing animal bodies must be vivified at once, or otherwise the cells in question wiU never be able to discharge their functions, and must soon become absorbed and decomposed. The vital stimulus itself has not yet been demonstrated, but certain other well-known stimuli appear to be necessary, such as heat, light, and electricity; there are some others, (called adjuvant stimuli,) which, though highly useful, are not entirely indispensable, such as moisture, &c. JEpitkelium.—Th.e whole surface of the body, as well as the walls of the different cavities, is covered entirely by a thin, transparent, well-defined structure, named differently according to the parts which it covers, or to which it is applied; thus, the structure covering the external surface of the body is called the epidermis, whilst that investing the mucus canals is called epithelium. These both, how- ever, differ somewhat from the epithelium of serous and mucous membranes, a fifth class being formed by the epithelium of the vascular canals. Epithelium is supplied with neither vessels nor nerves, though it is nevertheless composed of organised structure.DESCllIPTION OF THE TISSUES. 423 It is formed by nucleated cells, bound together by inter- cellular substance. The deeper ones are more or less spherical in form, but the superficial are in general flattened, and finally become desquamated. There are several forms of epithelium, the following being the principal: 1. The scaly, or lamellar epithelium, is found on the free surface of serous membranes, and on the inner surface of the heart, blood-vessels, and absorbents, as a single layer; but on the skin, conjunctiva, and great mucous passages, it exists in the form of many strata. This variety appears to be composed of flattened cells, each containing a nucleus and generally some corpuscles. 2. Columnar epithelium is composed, as its name signifies, of a number of oblong perpendicular cells, in general broader at their superficial extremity than at their base. The columnar epithelium is formed by single nucleated cells, bound together by intercellular substance, and is found principally in the stomach, intestines, and urethra. It is also found in the gall bladder. 3. Spheroidal epithelium (as described by Mr. Bowman) appears to be a transition between the two former varieties. Its cells are more or less spherical or cubic in form. It may be found lining the excretory ducts of most glands. 4. Ciliated epithelium is that peculiar variety in which small vibratile processes called cilia (from their resemblance to small eyelashes in form) stud the entire surface of the membrane which it covers. The ciliated epithelium is formed by nucleated cells, resembling those of columnar epithelium, from the extremity of each of which small cilia project. The constant motion existing in these bodies causes the gradual, but certain passage of fluids along its surface. The motions of the cilia continue more or less actively during the whole of hfe, and exist for some time even after death. The length-of the cilia varies con- siderably with the nature of the parts which they cover. The fluids pass, however, always in one direction. Ciliated epithelium is found in the air-passages almost throughout, and in the Eustachian tube. It is also found in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, as far as the fimbriated extremities, and in the membranes lining the ventricles of the brain.PHYSIOLOGY. 424 Pigment Cells.—In various parts of the body are found certain coloured portions. This is evident in the skin of the negro, and in some parts of the skin of tlie other races of mankind. This colour is owing to a peculiar black pigment found in cells, and composed of carbon in large proportion, together with nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen. The pigment cells of the skin of the negro are found lodged in the rete-mucosum. They are somewhat smaller than those of the choroid, and are generally hexagonal in appearance. According to some, the pigment layer in the negro forms an additional stratum, and it maybe separated from the cuticle by long digestion in water, but this circumstance is not sufficient to establish its separate character. The pigment cells of the choroid, and of the uvea of the iris, are both more or less hexagonal in shape, and of all forms, varying from that to the sphencal. The pigment itself appears to be the peculiar, coloured, gratiu- lar substance, and the coloured nucleus contained withm the cell. In some rare instances in the human race the pigment of the skin, the choroid, and the haii- appears to be deficient. In this case, the individual is called an albino. ^ e j. i- Adipose Trnwe.—The principal part of the fat ot the body is found enclosed in small cells, more or less rounded in shape, and by the aggregation of which is formed adipose tissue. Adipose substance, in younger subjects, is generally lodged in the subcutaneous ceUular tissue, but as age advances, it becomes more and more confined to the trunk, surrounding and enveloping the internal organs, such as the kidneys, &c. It also exists more or less about the joints, and within the cavities of the bones of which it forms the marrow. There are few parts of the body in which fat may not be deposited but none exists as a rule in the cellular tissue of eyelids, penis, or scrotum ; nor in the lungs or the cavity of the cranium. The fat in the human body generally exists more or less in a state of fluidity during life, but after death it becomes much more solid. Fat cells are tolerably well supplied with blood-vessels, but no nerves are distributed to them. Areolar TrnMe.—This substance was formerly incorrectly named cellular tissue, but in the present day it is well known that no cells exist in its substance. It is composedDESCEIPTTON OF THE TISSUES. 425 of a large number of small transparent fibrils, each of which is about ^-^^-^oth. of an inch in diameter; these, by- interlacing and ci-ossing one another, give it that appear- ance from which it derives its name. Cellular tissue is (like the other structures) developed from cells, and is readily reproduced when destroyed by any cause. It is very sparingly suppHed with blood-vessels, and no nerves have been found distributed to it. It is the connecting medium for all the other tissues, and may be named variously, according to its situation, as subcutaneous, sub- mucous, subserous, intermuscular, &c. Fibrous Tissue.—This structure is one that is most useful on account of its mechanical properties. It appears to bind together the various parts of the human body, either by connecting one part with anotlier lilce a jcord, or by enveloping or sending processes between different portions, and thus by its firmness keeping their relations complete. The leading forms in which it is found in the human body are as tendon, ligament, fibro-cartilage, white and yellow fibrous tissue, and the fasciee. Fibrous tissue is formed by a number of minute fibres, chiefly parallel to one another, and but rarely interlacing; with these are mixed up a few nucleated fibres. The fibrous tissues are very sparingly supphed with blood-vessels and nerves; no lymphatics have been satisfactorily traced in their sub- stance. Fibrous tissues are slowly repaired after accident or injury. Yelloiv Elastic TrnMe.—This structure is found in the hgamentum nuchse of quadrupeds, and in the spinal liga- menta subflava of man. The fibres forming this substance run somewhat parallel with one another, but, in addition, anastomose and interlace with one another in a very intimate manner. The elasticity of this substance is owing almost entirely to the mechanical arrangement of its fibres for when much stretched, it breaks with a very slight additional Cartilage.-'Yh\s substance is generally divided into two classes—the ordmary white cartilage, and the yellow, or t^ssu jaune. /fo the former belong the cartilages that cover the articular extremities of the bones, as weU as the cartilages of the nbs the ensiform cartilage, and the prin- cipal cartilages of the larynx. To the latter belong the426 PHYSIOLOGY. • cartilages of the eyelids, nose, and ear, as vfeW as the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis. The white cartilages are composed of cells, each of which contains more or less nuclei, imbedded in a large quantity of substance called the matrix, which is of an uniform structure, and in which very few, if any, fibres are found. The white cartilages are, as a general rule, liable more or less to ossification, but the articular are an almost complete exception, cases of their being found ossified being ex- tremely rare. The yellow cartilages are much softer in structure, and, like the white, contain nucleated cells, imbedded in a matrix; but they differ in their not being liable to ossifi- cation, and in their being in every direction pervaded with fibres. The cartilages of the body are almost entirely devoid of visible blood-vessels. They also contain no visible nerves, Fibro-cartilages.—These, as their name implies, are in- termediate in their properties between the fibrous and cartilaginous tissues. They all combine to a considerable extent both firmness and elasticity, with toughness and flexibility. They are found in the body either as inter- articular fibro-cartilages, or surrounding the edges of joints to deepen the cavity, of which a good example is seen in the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, or as connecting parts, in which a slight degree of motion is requisite but no synovial capsule exists, as between the bodies of the vertebrse, or as a thin layer lining the walls of the bony grooves in which tendons run. Fibro-cartilage, when examined by the microscope, is found to be composed of bundles of fibres surrounding cartilage cells. In some of the fibro-cartilages the one structure is more abundant than the other, and in most cases the fibrous tissue predominates. The vascularity oi fibro-cartilage is very low, nor has it much tendency to ossific deposit. , Bone.—The chemical composition of this structure has been already given with the animal chemistry. Bones are commonly divided into three classes, long, flat, and mixed; the former in most instances possessing a shaft of compact structure, (of which also the articular surfaces are com- posed,) and the extremities, of which the tissue is spongy.« DESCRIPTION OF THE TISSUES. 427 Internally the long bones present a more or less circular canal, filled with marrow, the principal use of which ap- pears to be to keep the cavity of the bone warm, to make it lighter, and to carry the blood-vessels which enter at the foramina to the more distant parts of the bone. The flat bones, with the exception of the sternum, have very little cancellated structure, and more of the vitreous; whilst in the mixed bones the two structures are about equally balanced, and though there may exist an internal cavity, it does not fulfil the same functions as the medullary cavity of the long bones. Examined by the microscope, bone presents a large number of canals, varying from 3^0*^ to 2 Ao^li inch in diameter. These canals are larger in the internal portions of the bones than in the external. Their name is derived from their first describer, Clopton Havers. Each Haver- sian canal is surrounded by a number of concentric rings. The Haversian canals run parallel with the longitudinal axis of the bone in most places, and from them at right angles run numerous much smaller canals (canaliculi), leading to the surface of the bone. Between the concen- tric lamellae that surround the Haversian canals, are seen numerous small specks, that appear solid, but are in reality hollow : these are named lacunae. The bones are supplied freely with blood from two principal sources; the one being the periosteum, and the other the internal vessels that ramify throughout the marrow. It is doubtful whether they have any nervous supply; but a small twi"' has been seen entering the nutritious foramen of the tibia*! Bone is tolerably easily reproduced when destroyed by disease or mechanical injury. Muscle.—The structure of muscle is generally considered to be of three kinds, the first being that of voluntary mus- cle, the second that of involuntaiy muscle iu general the third being that of the heart. Muscle may, in general terms, be styled the structure, bv means of which all the movements of the body are performed. Though in itself by no means strong as regards structure, yet under the influence of the will or other stimuli the power it exhibits IS prodigious. And this must be still greater in reality than in appearance, power in nearly all instances being sacrificed to give increased extent of motion428 PHYSIOLOGY. Voluntary muscles on a casual inspection are seen to be formed by a number of more or less coarse parallel fibres; these, on inspection by a microscope, are seen to be formed by a number of parallel fibrillse. Every muscular fibril is enveloped in a peculiar sheath of its own, called sarcolemma, and as they do not anastomose or join each other, the muscular fibrillae extend from one end of the muscle to the other. On examination with the microscope, voluntary muscular fibre is seen to be composed of a number of circular parallel discs, ranged one above the other, con- nected together by an intermediate softer substance, thus presenting an appearance of transverse lines, hence called striated muscular tissue. The diameter of muscular fibres averages about 4^oth of an inch, but in males the fibres are somewhat larger, and in females somewhat smaller than the above. Muscles are freely supplied with blood, and with nerves. It has long been a doubt whether muscles contract from an inherent irritability existing in themselves, or whether they do so only from the influence of the nerves vsupplied to them; but the latter hypothesis is the one generally entertained at the present time, and the experiments that have been made to endeavour to prove the contrary, are extremely unsatisfactory. The fibres of involuntary muscle differ very strikingly in their structure from the others, being much less (about g^i^oth of an inch) in diameter, and much shorter. They are devoid of transverse striae, and hence called non-striated. They contain nuclei, and interlace freely with one another, and have no distinct sarcolemma. They are found in all the viscera of the body, except the heart. The muscular fibres of the heart are peculiar in arrange- ment and structure. Like those of the voluntary muscles, they are marked with transverse striae, but are somewhat smaller in size. Like those of the intestines, &c., they anastomose with one another, and have no true sarco- lemma. They intermix most intimately with one another in the substance of the heart. Nervous Tissue.—A few words have been previously mentioned on this subject in the anatomical department. (^Fide Anatomy of Nervous System.) Arteries, on superficial inspection, appear to consist of429 DESCRIPTION OF THE TISSUES. three coats, which have been named external or cellular middle or elastic, and internal serous or proper lining coat. Many anatomists of late years, assisted by the microscope, describe several layers, amounting to six or seven. Thus the internal layer may be divided into two, the innermost constituting the epithelium, the outer one is thin, formed of elastic, longitudinal, and some tranverse fibres, named th.Q fenestrated ov pei-foratedmQmhvajie. The middle coat again is divided by some into two layers, the internal one containing involuntary muscular fibres, the outer being purely elastic. The outer cellular coat also consists of two layers, the inner one composed of yellow elastic fibres, the outer of white inelastic fibres and areolar tissue. Arteries are supplied with numerous small nutritious arterial branches, called vasa vasorum, and receive their nerves from the sympathetic. Veins.—Hhe veins, Uke the arteries, ramify throughout the whole body. The leading points of difference between the two are the following: The veins are as a rule much more lax and capacious than the arteries, as well as more numerous ; so that the venous blood in the body at any one time exceeds by at least twice the amount that is contained in the arterial system To this rule the pulmonary circulation is the only ex- ception. The veins are arranged in two leading sets, the super- ficial and the deep, the former accompanying no arteries the latter running along the sides of arteries as vence conites or satellites; the smaller arteries have two or more ven^ comites, the larger have only one. In structure, the veins are much the thinner in their coats ; tliey are, however, the same in number and kind as in the arteries, the only difference being tliat the lonffitu- dinal fibrous coat is extremely well developed, whilst the others are very thin, and scarcely discernible The in ternal coat however, is thrown at certain distances in^o folds, which form the valves of the veins; these p?e en? heir free, sharp, concave edge towards the heart so hey favour the onward passage of the venous blood wl ils they a most entirely check its return. The verrW tare), as well as the very largest, have no valves. ThePHYSIOLOGY. 430 muscular structure of the auricles of the heart extends for some distance along the cavse and pulmonary veins. Capillaries.—Between the terminations of the arteries and the commencement of the veins exists a third portion of the circulating medium, viz., the capillary system. The small vessels of the capillary circulation anastomose with one another much more freely than the arteries, or even the veins. They vary in size from t3-Vt)* to g-gVo*^ an inch in diameter,—these being the extremes. Some of the capillaries have three coats, like the other vessels; but the smallest do not appear, for certain, to have more than one. It is in the capillary circulation of the body that nearly all the changes in its composition take place; it is in them that the carbonisation of the blood is effected, and animal heat produced; it is from them that the bile, sweat, and urine are secreted, &c. Lymphatics or Absorbents—Tsi& coats of the lymphatics are still thinner than those of the arteries or the veins, but thev are much stronger in reality than one would be led to expect from their appearance. They have three coats, of which the external is cellular, the middle fibrous, and the internal epithelial. Like the veins, the lymphatics are furnished with valves, which exist in such numbers as to give the vessels, when distended by injection, a knotted or beaded appearance. Ltjmphatic Glands—These are composed of numerous finely-divided lymphatic vessels, surrounded by a plexus of blood-vessels, and bound together by cellular tissue. The absorbents leading to them are more numerous and smaller than those which pass out from them. The former are called vasa inferentia, the latter vasa eff"erentia. The absorbents, or lymphatics, ultimately terminate by pouring their contents into the veins, generally by two large trunks, viz., the thoracic duct, which opens into the angle of junction of the left subclavian and left internal jugular veins, and the ductus lymphaticus dexter, which opens into the right subclavian vein near its junction with the right internal jugular vein. _ Serous Membranes are very dehcate structures, hniug a shut sac, except in the case of the peritoneum of the female, where we have a continuity of mucous and serous mem- brane at the extremity of the Fallopian tubes. Their freeDESCRIPTION or THE TISSUES. 431 surface consists of a delicate scaly epithelium; next to which is the basement membrane of Dr. Todd, consisting of elastic fibres and areolar tissue ; and external to this is the subserous areolar tissue, connecting it with the neigh- bouring parts. The principal serous membranes of the body are, the arachnoid, pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, and tunica vaginalis. The basement membrane has numerous vessels and nerves external to it, but is not distinctly permeated by them. Synovial Membranes, like serous, line shut sacs; they differ chiefly in the quantity of the fluid which they secrete, and which contains a much larger proportion of albumen! They have three layers, viz., the epithelial, basement mem- brane, and reticulated connecting layer. There are varieties of them : 1st, those proper to the joints ; 2dly, those con- stitutmg burscE mucoscB, as they are called; and 3dly, the sheathing variety, extended around and accompanying tendons forming sheaths to them, as about the ankle and wnst joints. Mucous Membranes line all the open passages of the body; they are all exposed directly or indirectly to the contact of the atmosphere. Strictly speaking there are only two large mucous surfaces, one named gastro-puhno- nary, extending from the mouth and nose to the anus • the other named genito-urinary, lining the urinary and genital apparatus. To these a third might be added, viz., the mucous membrane lining the mammary tubes 'The'v present an attached and free surface, the latter being re- markably uneven in many parts of the body. Thev generally present a roseate tint, on account of the nume- rous vessels belonging to them. Mucous membrane in structure is more complex than serous, and bears a considerable analogy to the skin of which It may be called the internal reflection. It consists of epithelium, then basement membrane, and next the fibro-cellular layer, in which are found the numerous vessels and nerves supplying it in certain parts ThL membrane presents numerous smaU elevations, named papilla, but which contain the essential parts of the mem- orT., 1 'f' l'"'"'' '^'^ ""^^^'•^"^ depressions or sacs are found opening upon the surface, and pouringPHYSIOLOGY, 432 out various secretions in the dififerent parts, as the foUicles of the stomach, crypts of Lieberkiihn, &c. Secreting Glands.—These are of several varieties, which can however be best divided into three. The simplest form of secreting glands is that in which the substance is secreted by the waU of a simple cell, which when it is filled, bursts into the adjoining cavity. The next form is that in which, in order to increase the acting surface, the secretory surface projects, or is folded so as to afford additional superficies. Several varieties of this sort of gland exist, in some of which the surfaces are serrated or notched for a similar purpose. In the third case the membrane is more or less inverted, so as to form an increase of surface without lessening the calibre of the cavity. In this variety some of the secre- tory apparatus are merely simple pouches, with a more or less constricted orifice, whilst in others there is an evident duct, and this in many cases more or less branched, and eventually terminating in the real secreting ceUs. In most glands the separate portions are bound together by a cellular substance, called parenchyma, in addition to which many glands have a regular fibrous covering. In some instances there exist more or less perfect re- servoirs, in which the secretion is kept for a short time previously to its being used or eliminated. The structure of these is generally somewhat fibrous with a mucous lining, a few muscular portions being intermixed. OF THE NUTEITIVE FUNCTIONS. Mastication and Insalivation.—The food being taken into the mouth, is retained there and brought under the influence of the teeth by the lips, the buccinator muscles, and tongue. By the lateral motions of the lower jaw, effected by the pterygoid and assisted by the masseter muscles, the inferior molar teeth grind the aliinentary substance against the upper ones. During this time the food becomes mixed with the saUva and mucus of the mouth, which convert it into an easily-swallowed bolus, and also fit it for digestion and assimilation. De(/lutition.-ANhen the food has been sufficiently divided and imbued with saliva, it is placed in a mass upon the dorsum of the tongue, which is rendered concave forTHE NUTRITIVE FUNCTIONS, 433 its reception. The mouth is then closed, the apex of the tongue applied to the roof of the mouth, and the rest of the organ brought successively in contact with it, from before backwards; the food having no other way to escape this pressure, slides down the inclined plane formed by the tongue through the isthmus faucium, into the pharynx, which is drawn upwards and forwards to receive it. At this time the velum palati is elevated, and thus prevents the food getting into the nostrils or Eustachian tubes. The larynx is raised, and rather inclined forwards, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated, so that the glottis is brought under the epiglottis, which amply covers it, and thereby prevents the food from entering that cavity. As soon as the food has passed the isthmus into the phai7nx, the velum is depressed, and thus cuts off the return of food into the mouth, at the same time that it assists in its descent. The moment the food has passed into the pharynx, its constiictors begin to act, and rapidly force it into the oesophagus. The larynx, pharynx, velum, &c., are now restored to their natural position. Digestion.—The alimentary matter being propelled by the contractions of the oesophagus into the cardiac extre- mity of the stomach, becomes acted upon by the gastric juice, which, assisted by the heat and muscular contraction of the stomach, quickly dissolves the digestible part, and entering into union with it, produces a new fluid, called chyme. The chyme is gradually conveyed, by a kind of peristaltic motion, from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach. When it has been sufficiently operated upon by the stomach, it passes through the pylorus into the duodenum. The pylorus possesses a peculiar sensibility, which may be considered as a kind of sentinel, that pre- vents any matter from passing through it, but such as has been properly converted into chyme. ChyliJication.—'Uhe chyme having passed throuo-h the pylorus into the duodenum, becomes mixed with the bilian/ pancreatic, and w^esfma^ secretions. These juices by their action upon the chyme, separate it into two portions, one a milky fluid called chyle, and another, the excrementitious portion. By some, the alkaline and saline ingredients of the bile are supposed to combine with the chyle, while the albumen and resinous matter combine with the excremcu- 19PHYSIOLOGY. 434 titious portion. The chyle attaches itself to those irregular circular folds of the mucous membrane of the small intes- tines, called valvnlse conniventes, where it is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed to the thoracic duct. The large intestines also possess lacteals, so that if any portion of chyle should not have been absorbed in the small intes- tines, it is taken up in the large ones. The faeces pass from the small to the large intestines and there acquire that peculiar fetid odour which distinguishes them. They are gradually urged on into the sigmoid flexure of the colon and rectum, where they remain for a certain time, and are then discharged. ExcrefAon of the Fceces.—The faeces gradually accumu- lating in the rectum stimulate it to discharge its contents; and the diaphragm and abdominal muscles expel the faeces, ovei'powering the levator and sphincter ani. After the excretion, the levator chiefly retracts the intestine, which is again closed by its sphincter. Abso7'ption and Course of the Chyle.—The absorbents which take up the chyle in the intestines are caUed lacteals. They are most numerous in the jejunum. The lacteals of the small intestines, and part of the large, convey the chyle to the mesenteric glands, where it is supposed to undergo some change, which is rendered evident by a change of colour; the fluid which passes from the gland has a.more pink and rather less milky appearance. Passing from one gland to another, they ultimately form a small number of larger trunks. These accompany the superior mesenteric artery to the right side of the aorta, and there join the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is formed by the junction of the lacteals with the lymphatics of the pelvis and lower extremities. It begins on the third lumbar vertebra, and here swells out into an oval sac, called receptaculum chyli. Proceeding upwards, on the right side of the aorta, it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the posterior mediastinum. On the fourth dorsal vertebra it crosses behind the aorta to reach the left side of the neck, and terminates in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Use of the Spleen.—The physiology of the spleen is not understood. By some it has been thought subservient to the function of the liver, by preparing a fluid for the vena435 THJE BLOOD. portse. Others consider it subservient to the stomach, and that it receives the surcharge of blood when the stomach is empty. The most rational theory is that of Mr. Dobson; he found that the spleen receives most blood during di- gestion, and that, when digestion is completed, it recovers its normal condition. Hence he imagined that the spleen becomes a reservoir or diverticulum for a part of the blood, until the system can accommodate itself to the additional fluid which has been thrown into the circulating mass of fluids. Some modern physiologists imagine that the spleen is subservient in producing the colouring matter of the blood, and that it indeed may be said to form the red globules, but on insufScient grounds. THE BLOOD. The blood when first drawn from the living body appears homogeneous; hut, submitted to the microscope, exhibits an almost colourless fluid, with numerous red globules floating in it. By standing, it coagulates in from three to seven minutes, and after a space of half an hour or more, it separates into two parts—serum and crassamentum. Thus the blood at first consists of liquor sanguinis (or plasma) and red globules. The crassamentum formed afterwards contains the fibrine of the liquor sanguinis, as well as the globules entangled in its meshes. Besides'the red corpuscles, numerous pale corpuscles are found in the blood. The red corpuscles, or globules, in man are circular, flattened, biconcave discs, about ^^^t]x of an inch in diameter, and a fourth of that measure in thickness. They are generally of the same form in the mammalia, excepting the camel, in which they are rather ovoid. In reptiles birds, and fishes, they are generally oval, with a central tnicJcer nucleus, instead of a depression. They vary much in size in animals ; are largest in the elephant amono-st the mammalia; smallest in the napu musk deer, according to Mr. Gulliver not exceeding the ^l^-th of an inch in diameter. They are largest in the pro?e«s, the siren, and the frog; being in the protcus ,th of an inch in diameter. The red corpuscles consist of a colourless envelope, sur- rounding the colouring matter; and in those cases ;iiere there is a central nucleus, the colouring matter is deposited436 PHYSIOLOGY. around it. The human discs, by allowing the blood to rest, have a tendency to collect together in rows by their flat surface, like rolls of money. The pale corpusdes are fewer than the red, and generally of a larger size ; they are more spherical, present an uneven surface, and are found to contain one or more granules. They may be considered as transitional, or undeveloped red corpuscles. The coagulation of the blood is owing to the tendency of the fibrine to take on the solid form. In inflammation the clot often presents a bufi'ed appearance, which is ex- plained in two or three ways : either the blood coagulating more slowly, more time is allowed for the subsidence of the red particles, leaving some fibrine at the surface free from them; or the red globules unite more firmly and rapidly, and sink sooner; or, the contraction of the fibrine being stronger, it squeezes out of its meshes the red globules, which sink by their gravity, and retains the pale ones at the top, they being much lighter. Arterial blood is now considered to coagulate rather sooner than venous. Coagulation is promoted or accelerated by heat slightly above the natural temperature: also by exposure to air, increased extent of surface, agitation, and by faintness, as in haemorrhages. Coagulation is retarded by cold, exclu- sion of air, copious dilution with water, caustic potash and soda, and acids. Circulation of the Blood.—The blood is returned from the upper part of the body by the superior vena cava, from the inferior part by the inferior cava, and from the heart itself by the coronary vein to the right auricle. This contracts and discharges its contents into the right ven- tricle : when completely filled, the right ventricle contracts; by that contraction, its tricuspid valve is brought into action, and prevents the blood returning into the aui'icle, and the contents are propelled through the pulmonary artery, and its ramification to the lungs. From the lungs the blood is returned by the four pulmqnary veins to the left auricle, which, being distended, now contracts, and throws the blood into the left ventricle. The left ventricle then contracts, its mitral valve closing the auriculo-ven- tricular opening, and the blood is propelled through theTHE BLOOD. 437 aorta into the capillary system, to be again returned by the veins. The aorta and pulmonary artery are each guarded by three semilunar or sigmoid valves, which prevent the blood returning into the ventricles. Foetal Circulation.—The circulation of blood in the fcetus is considered now to be carried on in the following manner: the blood, purified in the placenta, is carried to the fcetus by the umbihcal vein, which, running along the longitudinal fissure of the liver, gives branches to each lobe of it, and its continuous branch passes to the inferior vena cava, under the name of the ductus venoms: next, the blood of the in- ferior cava enters the right auricle of the heart, and is directed by the Eustachian valve through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, from which it passes into the left ventricle, and thence into the ascending aorta. Neariy all this blood goes to the head and upper extremities, from which parts it returns to the heart by the superior cava, and enters the right auricle, in which, separated by the Eustachian valve from the lower current, it passes on to the right ventricle, and thence into the pulmonary artery, which, in the fcetus, has three branches, the two pidmonary arteries, as yet very small, and a third large trunk, named ductus arteriosus, leading into the lower part of the arch of the aorta. Most of the blood then received by the pulmonary artery passes into the aorta, very httle into the lungs; and the blood thus received by the aorta descends to supply the lower parts of the bodv, a large portion of it finding Its way into the umbiUcal arteries (then verylaro-e) to be carried back to the placenta to be purified. ^ This kind of circulation is highly probable, when we take into consideration the superior development of the head and upper extremities, the situation of the Eustachian valve, and the pecuhar direction in which the ductus arteriosus enters the aorta: this is the description which IS now more generally received. The temperature of the blood is about 98°. The cause of It IS not perfectly agreed upon. Some attribute it to the caloric evolved in the lungs, arising from the union ol" oxygen with carbon and say that it is carried by meZs of the blood to the difi^srent parts of the body; olhers more rationally consider that caloric is evolved in the ceiTeral capillanes at the time of the conversion of the arteriaTrto438 PHYSIOLOGY. venous blood, by a process analogous to combustion, -which is so probable, that scarcely any other hypothesis ap- pears requisite. Sir B. Brodie considered that the nervous system was mainly concerned in the production of animal heat. Of Respiration.—The air is received into the lungs by the enlargement of the cavity of the chest. The powers which effect this enlargement, in common inspiration, are the diaphragm and intercostal muscles ; in forced inspira- tion, many other muscles are brought into play, such as the trapezius, rhomboidei, levator anguli scapulae, pectorahs major and minor, subclavius, scaleni, sei'rati postici, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. The blood of the pulmonary artery being exposed to the influence of the air in the lungs, is converted from a dark colour into a florid red, by parting with carbonic acid and the absorption of oxygen. Com- bined with carbonic acid, a watery vapour is likewise evolved. When the blood has been properly acted upon, the inspiratory muscles relax, while the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera upwards against the diaphragm, dimi- nish the cavity of the chest, and thus expel the air. In forced expiration several muscles assist; they are the triangularis sterni, serratus posticus inferior, levator ani, quadratus lumborum, latissimus and longissimus dorsi. OF SECBETION. The term secretion is applied to that process by which parts of the blood are separated in the various organs. The exact manner in which secretion is effected is unknown. The secretions may be dcvviditA. mio exhalatioiis, follicular secretions, and glandular secretions. A distinction is made by some between secretions and excretions in this way, viz., a secretion is something which is capable of causing changes in other parts before it leaves the body; an excretion is something thrown ofi" from the body as useless, and even injurious, and although retained some time produces no beneficial change in other fluids or solids. Of the Secretion and Excretion of the Tears.—The tears are secreted by the lacrymal gland, from whence they are conveyed by six or seven excretory canals to the upper and outer part of the eye, where they pass through the con-SECRETION. 439 junctiva, and are carried by a triangular canal formed by a meeting of the eyelids, to the inner canthus of the eye, where they are absorbed by the jiuncta lacrymalia, and conveyed by two tubes to the lacrymal sac. From the lacryinal sac the tears pass by the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. Use of the Tears.—The tears keep the cornea moist, prevent the friction of the eyelids on the eyes, and wash away any extraneous bodies which may have fallen into the eye; they are of much use to the nose by lubricating the membrane, and thus contributing to the perfection of smelling. Secretion of Milk.—The milk is secreted in the glandular substance of the mammae. The tubuli lactiferi commence in numerous small portions of the gland, called granules. As they approach the nipple, the ducts unite into twelve or fifteen, of considerable size, which terminate on the surface of the nipple by open mouths. The milk is only for the purpose of nourishing the infant. Secretion of Saliva.—The sahva is secreted by the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands, and conveyed by their ducts into their mouth. Its use seems to be, to keep the tongue and mouth moist, and thereby to assist the ruastication and deglutition of the food, and its diges- tion in the stomach; it has been supposed by some, to have the power of converting starch into dextrine or grape sugar. Secretion of Gastric Juice.—The gastric juice is supposed to be secreted partly by the extreme arteries of the villous coat of the stomach, and partly within the follicles. It dissolves those substances which are nutritious to the animal, and has always an acid reaction. Secretion of the Pancreatic /?«ce.—The pancreatic juice is secreted in the acini of the pancreas, and conveyed by numerous small ducts into the great pancreatic duct, which opens along with the ductus choledochus in the duodenum. It IS supposed to assist in chylification, by dilutino- the bile, and adding to the saline ingredients. By some it is supposed to saponify the fat and oils taken, and by others to convert starch into sugar. Secretion of Bile.~'Yhe bile is secreted in the liver by the minute branches of the vena porta; in the acini or440 PHYSIOLOGY. lobules; from thence it passes along the excretory ducts, called the pori hiliarii, into the hepatic duct; this, with the cystic duct, forms the ductus communis choledochus, which terminates in the duodenum. It is considered that the blood of the vena portse, having more carbon and hydrogen than that of the hepatic artery, is more proper for furnishing the elements of bile. Excretion of Bile.—When digestion is not going on, the opening of the ductus choledochus is closed by the contrac- tion of the duodenum ; and the bile therefore, not finding access into it, regurgitates into the gall-bladder, where it ac- quires greater consistence. When the duodenum is dis- tended with chyme, the irritation it produces is propagated to the gall-bladder, the parietes of which contract, and force the bile along the cystic duct into the ductus com- munis choledochus, and from thence into the duodenum. Use of the Bile.—The bile precipitates the faeces from the chyle, and excites the peristaltic motion of the intes- tines ; it is also considered to be an outlet for carbon and hydrogen from the body. Secretion of Urine.—The urine is secreted by the minute branches of the renal artery into the tubuli uriniferi: then passes through the papillce or mammary processes, into the calices. These uniting, form three or four principal tubes, named infundibula, which terminate in ih.Q pelvis of the kidney. The pelvis contracting forms the ureter, which carries the urine to the bladder. The oblique manner in which the ureters penetrate the bladder prevents the urine from returning; the inner membrane of the bladder lying over the opening produces the effect of a valve. It is also believed to be intended to prevent such over-distension of the bladder as might lead to rupture of it. Excretion of Urine.—As soon as there is a certain quantity of urine in the bladder, we feel an inclination to discharge it. This we effect partly by the contraction of the bladder itself, and partly by the action of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, which press the intestines against the bladder. The urine is the principal outlet for nitrogen from the system. Secretion of Semen. —'The semen is secreted by the minute branches of the spermatic arteries in the testicles.THE BKAIN AND ORGANS OP SENSE. 441 It passes through the tubuli seminiferi into the vasa recta- contained in the rete testis. From the rete testis the semen passes by the vasa efferentia into the coni vasculosi, forming the head or globus major of the epididymis ; then through the body of the epididymis into its lower part, called globus minor or cauda, in the convoluted vas deferens. The vas deferens opens with the vesicula seminalis into the urethra. Use of the Vesiculce Seminales.—They are generally sup- posed to receive the semen, and to effect some change in it. By some they are considered to secrete a peculiar fluid. Use of the Prostate Gland.—The prostate gland secretes a peculiar fluid, which is discharged into the urethra by ten or twelve ducts. This secretion is combined and discharged with the seminal fluid. Use of the Uterus.—The uterus is of service for the function of menstruation, and for the reception and nutrition of the ovum. During coition the uterus is supposed to open a little, and draw m the semen by aspiration; the Fallopian tube directs it to the ovarium: the contact of the semen determines the rupture of one of the ovarian vesicles, which in a few days passes into the uterus. Some authors imagine that it is not the semen that is carried to the ovanum, but only the vapour that exhales from it, or aura seminalis. Others think the semen is absorbed, and earned to the ovaria by means of the arteries. No theory vet started carries much probability with it. ' OF THE BEAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE. v Of tJie Physiology of the Brain.—The uses of the brain m the animal economy are very numerous and important It IS the material organ of the intellect or mind; it gives* LoS iU,";?"™."V^' ^'^'^ oivolL^r; motion; It IS the seat of sensation and of symmthies ind exerts more or less influence upon all the vi/aT?hetmena The sensations are those functions destined to revive tt uleTtXr °' transmirtrm an " ~' taste, Mechanism of Vision,—The nva «p r w J -lue rays ot light, emanating 19§442 PHYSIOLOG'i;. from surrounding objects, wliich fall on the cornea, are in part reflected, and thus contribute to form the briUiancy of the eye. The transparent cornea refracts the remaining rays, and thus increases the intensity of light; the rays then pass through the anterior chamber, pupil, and posterior chamber to the lens. The number of rays which fall on the lens is regulated by the iris, which contracts or dilates, to allow more or less light to pass through the pupil, according as an object may be more or less lighted. Those rays that fall on the iris are reflected, and, returning through the cornea, exhibit the colours of the iris. The crystalline lens, both from its structure and form, very powerfully refracts the rays, and collects them into a focus, in the vitreous humour; from which point they diverge, and are spread out upon the retina in the bottom of the eye, where the impression is received, and conveyed along the optic nerve to the brain, and produces vision. The object is depicted in an inverted manner at the bottom of the eye. The conjunctiva protects the anterior surface of the eye; it secretes a fluid which mixes with the tears, and seems to have the same use ; it supports the pressure when the eye is moved, and being always pohshed and humid, it gives much facility to motion. The sclerotic is evidently to protect the interior parts of the eye, and to serve besides as a point of insertion for the muscles that move the eye. The choroid membrane is the most vascular coat of the eye, allowing the ramifications of the vessels, and secreting the pigmentum nigrum. The pigmentum nigrum absorbs the light after it has traversed the retina, and thus prevents dazzling. The dark matter, called uvea, on the posterior surface of the iris, is to absorb those rays that may be reflected by the pohshed surface of the crystaUine lens. The use of the ciliary processes is not perfectly under- stood. By some they are considered to secrete the aqueous humour. Haller thinks that they maintain the lens m the most advantageous position. Some physiologists think that they are muscular, and are able to produce changes m the convexity of the lens. The eyehroivs guard the eyes from external violence by the projection which they form; they protect the eyes from443 THE BRAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE. too much light, particularly when it comes from above, and they prevent perspiration from flowing towards or irritating the surface of the eye. The eyelids during sleep cover the eyes, and thus pre- serve them from the contact of any foreign bodies floating in the air; they moderate the force of a too brilliant light; and, by their regular and habitual motion, preserve the eyes from the effects of the continued contact of the air: and, by their sudden closure, guard them from any shock. The secretion from the meibomian glands facilitates the motion of the eyehds, prevents them sticking together, and by its oily character prevents the tears passing over the edges of the lids. Hearing. —The external ear, or pinna, collects the sonorous undulations, and directs them towards the meatus auditorius externus. This trumpet-like tube concentrates and conveys them to the membrana tympani. The sono- rous waves striking against the membrane cause it to vibrate; this vibratory motion will be also given to the malleus, which is in contact with the membrane. The malleus moves the hicus ; the incus, the os orbicidare ; and this latter moves the stajjes. Now the base of the stapes being attached to the membrane, closing the fenestra ovalis, it is evident that the stapes must act the part of a piston; that is, compressing or dilating the fluid in the vestibide, semicircular canals, and cochlea. The motion of this fluid conveys the impression to the acoustic nerve contained in the labyrinth. This nerve, receiving the im- pression, conveys it to the brain. The Eustachian tube admits the free passage of air into and from the cavity of the tympanum, thus preservino-a due balance with the external air, and enabhng the mem- brana tympani to move in obedience to the slightest im pression. ° The mastoid cells are supposed to augment the intensitv or the sound. The fenestra rotunda and aqueducts are supposed to allow the iquid of the labyrinth to suff-er vibratioT Of Taste.—To produce the sensation of taste, the food must be moistened and apphed to the tongue. The minute branches of the Inrgual branch of the thifd division of ll fifth pair receive the impression, and convey it to the brain.PHYSIOLOGY. 444 The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is thought by some to be also ail important nerve of taste. Of Smell.—The air, filled with the odorous effluvia which exhale from most bodies, being received into the nostrils by inspiration, carries these particles to tlie olfactory nerve, which is expanded over the surface of the pituitary mem- brane. By these means a kind of sensation is produced, which we call smell. Mucus is secreted to preserve the extremities of the nerves, and to lessen the too strong im- pression that would arise from the immediate contact of the odoriferous particles. Of the Functions of the Skin.—The cutis vera, or true skin, forms the organ of touch, besides which it is a, medium for absorption, and has a function analogous to that of the lungs, namely, the discharge of useless carbon from the system. The carbonic acid produced in the pro- cess is formed by the union of the carbon with the oxygen of the atmosphere in the capillaries. The skin has inuch influence in regulating the heat of the body, for it is by means of the sweat passing off and cooling the surface, that the body is enabled to bear exposure to a very high temperature. The cuticle, or epidermis, seems to blunt the otherwise too acute sensibility of the cutis vera, and to protect it from the impression of external bodies. Of the Voice.—The air expelled from the lungs passes through the trachea and larynx. In the latter, the passage for it is much smaller than in the trachea, and the air is forced through a narrow sht, the two sides of which are vibrating planes, and which then produce sonorous undu- lations in the transmitted current of air. The intensity of the sound depends on the length of the chordcB vocales, the distance between them, and the force with which the air is expelled. The modifications of the voice depend upon the alterations produced on the opening of the glottis by its muscles and ligaments ; and articulation, upon the movement of the muscles of the tongue and palate.I SURGERY.SUE GEE Y. ON INFLAMMATION. Inflammation is an abnormal or altered action in the vessels of any part, commonly attended with i-edness, pain, heat, and swelling, and with more or less constitutional disturbance. The Redness is caused by a greater quantity of blood being sent to the part, occasioned by the increased action of the arteries ; and, in some situations, as in the con- junctiva, by the dilated vessels allowing of the circulation of an increased number of the red globules of the blood, where it was formerly the opinion that they (the red glo- bules) had no passage. Some anatomists believe that there exist in the body minute vessels which only convey the watery portion of the blood, and name them vasa non rubra, and that in inflammation they become distended, and thereby admit also the red corpuscles and become visible; others deny the existence of such vessels, and state that when the red globules pass through in single file, the vessels are not ordinarily visible, but if by disten- sion of the vessels the globules pass two or three abreast, the vessels then are easily perceptible. The capillaries of an inflamed part are in a state of passive distension or debiUty, although the arteries at a little distance are acting with increased impetus. Fain is caused by an increased degree of sensibility in the nerves of the part, either from their participating in the inflammation, or from the distended adjacent parts compressing and stretching the nervous filaments. Heat.—Q)x applying the thermometer to an inflamed part, the temperature is found to be a few degrees hio-her than in the healthy parts of the same body. This is pro-STJEGERY. 448 duced by the greater quantity of arterial blood circulating in that part, and by augmented frequency of the circu- lation. This increase of temperature is not so great as is frequently imagined, being seldom more than one or two degrees. Mr. Hunter has proved this fact, by introducing the thermometer into inflamed wounds. In the case of inflammation after the operation for hydrocele, the mer- cury rose to 101°. Although we cannot demonstrate an. increase of temperature in inflammation of internal organs, yet we conclude that such is the case, from the feehngs of the patient, and the result of experiments on external parts when inflamed. The Swelling is caused by the increased quantity of blood sent to the part, and also by an effusion of serum, lymph, or pus, into the tissues affected. These local symptoms are usually attended with a disturbed state of the constitution, which is called fever, and which may be considered as the inflammation of the constitution. This is characterised, when well marked, by a full strong pulse, hot skin, furred tongue, constipated bowels, thirst, and some disturbance of the sensorium. Although such are the usual symptoms of inflammation, it must be recollected that these are much modified by the pecuhar nature of the inflammation, the structure of the parts affected, the age, sex, and constitution of the pa- tient; all of which circumstances not only alter the features of the inflammatory action, but influence its ter- mination, and cause us to modify or vary the treatment to be pursued: thus, in erythematous inflammation of the skin, there is but little swelUng, as is also the case when the inflammation exists beneath a resisting fibrous struc- ture, as in cases of deep-seated paronychia ; in inflamma- tion of deep-seated organs, there is seldom any redness apparent externally. Inflammation in the young subject, in general, runs more rapidly to its terminations than in the old, in whom all the actions are more languid. Inflammation terminates in Resolution, Effusion of Serum, Adhesion, Suppuration, Ulceration, and Mortifi- cation. Resolution.—This implies the subsidence of the inflam- matory action, without the production of any visible mor- bid change in the structure of the parts. Resolution isINFLAMMATION. 449 that termination of inflammation which is most to be desired, especially where the organs affected are those in which any morbid deposit is either detrimental to life or injurious to the function of the part affected. Thus we should especially endeavour to obtain it in inflammations of the brain, thoracic and abdominal viscera, the eye, &c. as any morbid alteration there will either suspend or materially interfere with the functions of these parts. Effusion of serum takes place very readily in some parts of the body, and in considerable quantity, from in- flammation; but in most instances this fluid can be rapidly reabsorbed when the morbid action ceases—when it occurs in single parts it constitutes oedema, or local dropsy; if in cavities, when it exists in' many parts of the body at one time, it is named anasarca. The fluid itself much re- sembles the serum of the blood, consisting of water, albumen, and some salts, and in active inflammation, this liquid also contains fibrine, resembling closely the plasma of the blood. There is considerable efi'usion about the face and especially the eyelids, in cases of small-pox and erysipelas, under the conjunctiva in purulent ophthalmia, about the glottis in laryngitis, constituting oedema glottidis, in which case laryngotomy or tracheotomy are necessary to save life. In hydrocephalus there is eff"usion of serous fluid in the ventricles of the brain, or on its surface—we find hydro-thorax from pleuritis and organic diseases of the heart, hydrops pericardii from inflammation of that membrane, ascites from peritonitis, hydrocele frequently fi'om inflammation of the tunica vaginalis, and anasarca from an inflammatory state of the kidney. In some cases the watery particles may be absorbed, but the fibrine and albumen remaining, may lead to considerable induration and thickening of parts. Adhesion is caused by the efi'usion of coagulable lymph from the vessels of the part, which Jymph afterwards becomes organised or may be absorbed. This termination of inflammation is generally desired in cases of wounds, either produced by accident or by the knife of the surgeon. When a wound has been inflicted, and it is desirable to unite it as soon, and with as little injury to the consti- tution, as is possible, union by adhesion, or by the first intention, is promoted. For this purpose the wound iaSUEGERY. 450 cleared of all foreign matter, and the edges brought together: in a few hours inflammation takes place, and lymph is poured out, which glues the edges of the wound together: in the course of a few hours more, vessels shoot into the coagulable lymph, which thus becomes organised, and completes the adhesion. Mr. Hunter conceived that wounds are sometimes united by the fibrine of the blood, without any inflammatory action: this opinion is not generally entertained. Adhesions frequently form without wounds, as in inflammation of serous membranes. The time for the completion of the process of adhesion is variable; in some cases it is perfected in from six to twelve hours, in others it requires some days for its completion. Coagulable lymph is largely composed of albumen and fibrine, and is hence named by some authors, albumbio- fibrine. Suppuration.—In this termination of inflammation, a fluid named pus is formed from the minute vessels of the part. Pus is a fluid of a whitish yellow colour, of the consistence of cream, of a mawkish taste, and is inodorous. It is composed of minute globules floating in a thin trans- parent fluid. It sinks in water, and will not readily unite with it. It is coagulable by a solution of hydro- chlorate of ammonia; forms a soapy fluid with the fixed alkalies; a gelatinous compound with ammonia. Puru- lent matter is more easily secreted by mucous than other surfaces. The secretion from them, when inflamed, is first thin and watery, and then resembles mucus, and finally becomes purulent. When pus is secreted in the interior of the body, it is usually contained in a bag or cyst. This is formed by the efiiision of lymph, which is poured into and condenses the surrounding cellular tissue. The col- lection of matter thus formed is termed an abscess, and is called acute, to distinguish it from those chronic abscesses, or collections of matter, which form without much active inflammation, and generally in connection with diseased vertebrae. In these a cyst is either wholly wanting, or is imperfectly marked. A suppurating surface generally pre- sents a granulated appearance, and indeed it would appear that an approach to this condition is essential to the formation of pus, as all structures assume it before puru- lent matter is formed. The name now apphed by some to451 INFLAMMATION. the lining of an abscess is, a pyogenic membrane. The formation and retention of pus in large quantities is generally, but not always, attended with a peculiar in- flammatory state of the constitution, named hectic fever. This is characterised by a frequent, weak pulse, flushings of the face, heat and dryness of the hands or tbe feet, profuse night sweats, or diarrhoea. It is also accompanied with exacerbations of fever, of an intermittent character. These exacerbations occur at mid-day and towards evening; the latter is the better marked; the attack is characterised by a great rapidity of the pulse and rigors, followed by a hot fit and sweating, which last for some hours. A question often asked is, what abscesses require to be opened early. Abscesses or collections of matter under- neath fasciae, amongst tendons, under the thick cuticle of the fingers, as in whitlow, abscess from extravasation of urine, in the axilla, or near joints, or under the muscles over important cavities, as the chest and abdomen, under the fascia of the neck, require to be early opened. Other abscesses may be left much to the natural efforts; but when opened, the incision should be made in the most de- pendent situation, and the walls should be afterwards gently supported by pressure. Ulceration.—The term ulceration is not confined to that process by which ulcers are formed on the external surface of the body, but comprises also the term ulcera- tive absorption; the removal of diff'erent parts of the body, as of the vertebrae, from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour; the separation of a mortified or dead part from the living, as in exfoliation of bone; and the progress of an abscess or collection of matter from the internal to the external surface of the body. The absorbents are said to be the chief agents in producing ulceration, their action being excited generally by pressure. The existence of matter is not necessary to the ulcerative process, as is seen in the removal of the vertebrae, from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour. This process tends generally to the surface; by this means an abscess, although formed deep, makes its way outwards, and finally bursts through the skin. The eff'usion of lymph preceding the ulcerative process, prevents the escape of the matter before it has arrived at the integuments. In this way, aneui-ismal452 SURGEEY, tumours, foreign bodies, such as musket-balls, splinters of bone, &c., come to the surface^ and are ultimately dis- charged. When ulceration takes place on the surface of the body, the part soon becomes covered with reddish, conical, fleshy bodies, named granulations; these are formed from lymph, which is effused from the open sur- face, and subsequently becomes organised. This granu- lated surface generally secretes pus, and is called an ulcer. The ulcerative process is most active in the more highly organised parts, as is seen in the separation of a mortified limb, in which the skin and muscles are soon separated, whilst the bones and fibrous structures are but slowly removed. Ulceration has been elegantly described by Mr. Skey, as "a process by which parts destroyed by inflammation are removed in detail." Query.—Is it not probable that the oxygen of the arterial blood, by combustion of the tissues, is the main agent in absorption, most especially that variety known by the name of disjunctive absorption ? Mortification is the last termination of inflammation. It takes place most readily in feebly organised parts, as in bones, cellular membrane, and fasciae. It is caused by the inflammatory action being too violent for the vital process of the part, and this may be induced wherever the balance between these is destroyed, whether this results from the severity of the inflammation or from the weakness of the parts ailected. The Treatment of Inflammation is best regulated by the antiphlogistic regimen. This consists in the general abstraction of blood by opening one of the veins or smaller arteries, local bleeding by means of cupping, leeches, &c., fomentations, purgatives, diaphoretics, the use of mercury, a spare diet, and cooling drinks. The extent to which these remedies are to be carried must be regulated by the character of the inflammation, its seat, nature, and the peculiarities of the patient, as will be found laid down in the consideration of the different dis- eases here treated of. The preceding description refers chiefly to that form of inflammation, termed acute or phlegmonous inflam- mation. There is another form of inflammation, termedINFLAMMATION. 453 chronic, ■which is different in its symptoms, and requires a modified plan of treatment. In this, the apparently increased vascularity is less than in the acute form, the vessels being of a pale red colour; the pain is more of a dull heavy character, and the temperature is but little raised. The swelling is the only symptom as well .marked in this as in the acute inflammation. The treatment consists in the moderate abstraction of blood, and the use of gently stimulating applications to the part, which have the effect of increasing the tone of the vessels. Cold applications are to be preferred to warm, in this form of inflammation, as the latter cause a relaxation of the vessels of the inflamed part, and thereby conduce to the con- tinuation of the disease. We have said that the symptoms and results of inflam- mation are much modified by the structure of the parts' affected : the following are examples of this fact. When inflammation is seated in the skin, it usually becomes extensive, because the surface is unbroken. Its colour is very florid, it raises the cuticle in the form of vesications, which usually contain serum, but also in some cases, fibrine ; a serous effusion is also produced by it into the subjacent cellular tissue. In the cellular membrane, inflammation produces an effusion, which obliterates or fills its cells; if it proceed, it occasions suppuration and produces an abscess. In still more violent forms, the cellular membrane sloughs, as m phlegmonous erysipelas. Inflammation of fascicB is generally extensive, from the large surfaces they present. When matter forms beneath them, it should be let out immediately to reheve the sufferings of the patient and prevent the sloughing of these structures. Inflammation ot muscles is known by the spasmodic twitchings which attend it. Tendons are not prone to inflammation ; when inflamed they frequently perish, and are cast off from the fleshy part of the muscle. Arterites ^v^ rarely inflamed, except after wounds on the apphcation of hgatures. When the lining membrane becomes inflamed, it sometimes extends as far as the cavities of the heai^. The large veins are very Uable to WhPn^lTfl r inflammation of their lining nLmbrane. When inflamed, the veins become Uke hard and broadSUKGEKY. 454 cords, and are extremely tender to the touch. Abscesses form in the course of the inflamed veins, both external to them and in their interior. Inflammation of nerves is exceedingly painful, and sometimes extends towards the spinal marrow or brain. Inflammation of the absorbents is marked by red lines on the skin in the course of these vessels. These form hard knots from the skin participating in the inflammation. The absorbent glands become also inflamed, and both glands and nerves occasionally suppurate. Serous mem- branes, when inflamed, are prone to the effusion of lymph, causing adhesion : they seldom suppurate. Mucous mem- branes, on the contrary, suppurate rapidly. The preceding forms of inflammation are named common, to distinguish them from those which depend on a specific disease in the constitution, or part affected, and which are therefore named specific. The syphilitic, scrofulous in- flammations, &c., are instances of this, and will be con- sidered under the heads of syphilis, scrofula, &c. ON ULCEBS. An TJlcer is a solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, attended with a secretion of pus, or some kind of discharge, and presenting generally a granu- latino- surface. Ulcers are divided into the local and constitutional, according as they -ar^ produced by a local or constitutional affection; also into the smiple and specific, the former being unaccompanied by any peculiar action of the part or constitution, the latter bemg caused by the presence of such action. Sir E. Home's classifi- cation of ulcers is that most approved of; he divides them as follows: ,t> • ^ i. x 1. Ulcers in parts which have sufficient strength to carry on the actions necessary for their recovery,—e. g. Simple, purulent, or healthy ulcers. 2. Ulcers in parts, which are too weak for that purpose —Weak ulcers. 3. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too violent to form healthy granulations, whether this arise from the state of the parts or of the constitution—/rn7a6/e, Gan- grenous, or Sloughhig ulcers. • j i ^ 4. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too indolent,ULCERS, 455 whether this arise from the state of the parts or of the constitution—Indolent ulcers. 5. Ulcers in parts which have acquired some specific action, either from a diseased state of the parts or of the constitution—Syphilitic, scrofulous ulcers, &c. 6. Ulcers in parts which are prevented from healing by a varicose state of the superficial veins of the upper part of the limb—Varicose ulcers. Simple, ■purulent, or healthy Ulcers.—Characters : The granulations are small, numerous, conical, and of a bright florid red colour, and rise a little above the surrounding edge. The discharge is healthy pus, of a whitish colour, thick consistence, readily separates from the surface of the sore, and is composed of small globules, swimming in a transparent fluid. Applications: Dry lint, simple oint- ment, cold water dressing, and, in some cases. Lot. Sulph Zinci, Lot, Sulph. Cupri. W?ak C/7ce?-5.—Characters: The granulations are large, round, but of a soft texture, and present a glossy semi- ' transparent appearance. The granulations frequently rise above the level of the surrounding skin, and are sometimes suddenly absorbed. Applications: Ung. Hyd.-nitrico-oxydi Lotio Sulph. Zinci, Lot. Sulph. Cupri, Lotio flava. Liquor talcis, Lotio Calcis Chlormatse, Adhesive straps and roller Irritable, Gangrenous, or Sloughing Ulcers.—Characters • Ihis ulcer is geueraUy circular in shape. The margin of the surrounding skin is jagged, and either terminates in an edge that is sharp and undefined, or presents a well-marked defined edge, having a nibbled appearance. The bottom of the ulcer is irregular, and does not present granulations but is covered with a whitish spongy substance, and trequently presents a number of bloody spots. The dis charge is thm and ichorous. Everything that touches the sore gives pam, and commonly makes it bleed. The nain IS very severe, and liable to exacerbations. When irritable ulcers partake of the gangrenous or sloughing cha fcter repeated sloughs form, preceded by an increase Tn £ painful symptoms, until the sore Lsumes a T' e s ze Apphcatrons: These ulcers are treated either by soothing remedies or by caustics. The former act by lessening he mflammation,the latter destroy the surface of th o ^and bring the inflammation to a termination by the formation456 SUEGEEY. of a slousb. SootJiing remedies : Poultices, Warm fomenta- tions, Leeches to surrounding skin, Water-dressmg, Lotio nigra, Opiate solutions, Liquor plumbi di-acetatis dilutus. cLtic applications: Nitric. Acid., Chloridum Zmci Liquor Potass^e Arsenitis, Actual Cautery. The Lotio Nit Argenti, Lot. Acid. Nit., and Lotio flava, will also be useful in some conditions of these ulcers. Indolent Ulcers. Characters: The edges of the sur- rounding skin are thick, prominent, smooth, and rounded The surface of the granulations is smooth and glassy, ihe pus is thin and watery, being composed of a mixture of pus and coagulable lymph. The lymph consists of flakes Shich cannot be easily separated from the surface of the sore The bottom of the ulcer is neai-ly level, and is Sghtly depressed below the level of the surrounding s fn Indolent ulcers do not readily form granula ions, although these sometimes become superabundant and of a fongous character, and are often absorbed again in a few C^.. ■ Applications : Stimulating applica ions are found most useful in this form of ulcer. Should he edge of the ul be ome caUous, it may be destroyed by caustic or removed with the knife. The adhesive straps and roUer a recommended by Mr. Baynton, he found beneficial A very successful plan, adopted V Mr. S:^e, harbeen to apply a blister over the ulcer and surrounding ha d par'ts b/means of which effused lymph is absorbed and the softened edges contracting, cicatrization proceeds '^Tptc^c f/to.-These depend on in the mrt which is the consequence either o a specitic diseaLC'he constitution, or the direct ^^^^^^^^^ specific poison. They are considered under the heaas ^^«s^:^"ed wit..varicj.e v^i^-ln freTu-tlypr^veSs our local applications from having a beneficial effect on the sore; for, as soon « f^- the constitution is improved, the ^l^^^'^'X'^l itrs not out any change in the local remedies. Many ulcers not of a Venereal character, will be "^^de to heal by th internal use of mercury. Position, too, is found to haveULCERS. 457 much effect on the healing of ulcers: thus, if they be situated on the lower extremity, the patient should keep the hmb as much as possible in the horizontal position ; this not only relaxes the muscles of the part, but also favours the return of the venous blood. Ulcers are formed either from a destruction of the skin, as in cases of injury, or from the gradual absorption of the skin, as in the bursting of an abscess. The open surface inflames, throws out coagulable lymph, this soon becomes organised and forms granulations. Some assert that the granulations are found beneath the layer of lymph, which becomes absorbed by them. Ulcers heal by cicatrization; in this process the granulations coalesce and contract the size of the ulcer; new skin is then formed by the deposit of lymph, generally from the circumference to the centre of the sore. The rete mucosum is not formed for some time after the healing of the ulcer. The cicatrix IS at first redder than the natural skin, but afterwards becomes less so, and frequently presents a callous surface l\oJi me tangere, or Lupus, is a pecuhar dangerous form of ulceration which generally commences in the glands or toIJicles of tiie nose, those small cavities which secrete the sebaceous matter; the ulceration extending deeply, at last even the cartilages of the nose, the skin of the face, and even bones, may become destroyed. The treatment of these cases is very difficult and unsatisfactory. The best apphcations to arrest the progress of the sore and to set up more healthy action, are powerful escharotics, such as ni ricacid pernitrate of mercury, caustic potash or Hme^ chlor.de of zinc, and arsenious acid. The latter has obtained most favour, and should be appHed to the pm m the form of apaste_or ointment, in the proportion o oj of the arsenic to 5J of menstruum, and this should be left on for twelve hour^, after which an eschar w U be formed and thrown off, and the parts may take on Tmore healthy action, and then be tbiiowed up with niUd r remedies, such as poultices, weak solution oT iiUrate of silver. &c. Good nourishment, pure air nn,1 Always demanded i.i these cases whi.h ' "^f' ""'^ the fa'ce, become not unfi^qrentV S! ""''''"'^ 20458 SURGEllY. ON MOKTIFIOATION. Mortification is divided into degrees or ^^^^'^f^^^^l^ and sphacelus. Gangrene is that ^^^f'°J^^f ^^^^Vn- which some vitality still remains. Sphacelus, on the con ^^^^Snt'T-divided i.to the^^ " Tno^^ne 1)4, also called chronic or idiovathc ^^^Z^'^e f'?ha which /akes place without any visible inflammatory lb tnai wu Lu uaivt ^ gangrene is not ;h^d::tr;?day£4.c.pt^^2^^ first symptoms are fJ^;/^;;;,' f ,fTe mortification, which disappear on tlie o'^^^f^J^^"^ sensibility and The parts now, from bemg pamtul, lose a^i J ^ \^ irregular dark ^o a black colour, in others in some places this f^PFoacoes ^^^^ ^^^^ is of a dark brown hue. .J'Tf^Z. beneath the cuticle ; they are irregular in shape and discoloured serum; persed by pressure, and contaui a ^^^'^^^^ ^-^^^^ i^^ing [he limb becomes mucli swollen, ceuu filled with air, and presents an empl^y-n atous ee wound be present the discharge ^md^n; '^j^ ^^^^^les of a thai, iclu.rous, offensive ^^^f^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ -^^^^ air The constitution sympathises witu n.i > the inflammatory fever di— I great languor a"d debility Tl^e s un ^^^^^^^^^^ cold, clammy perspiration, the pulse is qmcMORTIFICATION. 459 often intermitting; the stomach is irritable, and the bowels become relaxed. Hiccough supervenes. The patient's countenance indicates the great local and constitutional disturbance present; the features are collapsed, the eyes sunk, and the angles of the mouth drawn backwards and downwards. Delirium of a low muttering nature is often present. The constitutional symptoms are not always so severe; they depend on the extent of the mortification, the part affected, and the previous health of the patient. The treatment of mortification consists in expeditino- the separation of the mortified parts, supporting the con- stitution at the same time; and when this cannot be accomplished, the removal of the Umb, if practicable and not coutra-mdicated by a too-debihtated state of the body 1 he fermenting poultice is the most effectual means for causing the separation of the mortified parts. The lotio acidi nitrici, the carrot, charcoal, and port-wine poultices are also used with the same object. As internal remedies bark, wine, and opmra will be found most beneficial l^-ysipelas IS frequently followed by gangrene The appearances present are similar to those just described Ihe reatment is also similar. Mortification resulting directly from severe contusion is not attended with much cons itufonal disturbance. It is a completely loca affecuon, the contusion at once destroying^ the'vitahty ot the part. Burns produce mortification also by the almost immediate destruction of the vitality of the parts Here the constitutional symptom, are chiefly influenced by he extent of surface destroyed and its contigui y 0 vital organs Mortification from exposure to sevei^ cold IS remarkable from the Httle pain generally prec d nAl p gangrene, the exposed parts haviL frequently „t f«l ^ without tbe patient being^t all aware oTZtlZ:^,^ In some cases a good deal of pain precedes t^e mo, tifi cation. Larrey gives the followino- acconnf nP 1 of mortification that occ.irrod iTi 1,. ? ""'^ '^'''"^^ the Russian ^^r.^. ''tZ^^^^^ acute pain in the feet t^JIP complained of prickings in ^^ swollen, and of a dull red colour T,J «n ^'''"""^^ redness was perceptible aboi X b e o/'tLT the back of the foot. lu others ]\TL T ''""^ j-u oLuiis, tne toes were destitute of450 STJRGEUY. motion, sensibility, and warmth, being already Waek and as it wa-e dried." Cold without -o-ture is not o hkely to produce mortification as when combined with this last meSned agent. Parts exposed to a -vere degre cold should be first rubbed with snow, or witli the bare hand apart from artificial heat; after which a greater decree of warmth, gradually increased, may be applied. Sicl; arisi;g'from iLg-continued pressurj. as in patients labouring under chronic ^ ^'.f -^fl^^^^^^^ obstruct L the circulation. The gangrene usuaUy appears ov bony surfaces, as oyer the sacrum, trochanter, os ihum wounds of the Pi^'^^P^ T^ . ^ure of aneurism, the extremity of the 1™^, trom wn Amputation Mortification may be PJ f ^/^^^^^^ l^^ft^e constitution, blood-vessels, attended with dehUitj oi This form of -rtificf-n .^^^^^^^^^^^ '^e!::^eniul It name of dry or Pott s §f'^S^'^'\^'^ ^ frequently in almost always occurs in adyanced neq j the lower extremities, and of^^^^^^^^^^^^ Xsor.e few and mostly m persons who -^e^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^h little or no instances the disease makes its appeaia pain, but in the majority o ^/^^^^^^^ S;-ioint particu- Sneasiness through the whole foot a"Ue jo^^^^^^ ^^^^ larly at night. This is, after some t^"^^' ^ ^^^^'^^^^jae. or at formation of a small discoloured spo on th in the extremity of one of the smallei toes.461 MOKTIFICATION. the cuticle is always found detached, by forming a vesi- cation, and the skin underneath of a dark red colour. In some patients the disease is slow and long iu passing from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ankle; in others its progress is more rapid and exceedingly painful. Its course is preceded by a dark red appearance of the skin. As the parts mortify, they become dry and hard, from the evaporation of the fluids. The constitutional symptoms are those of debility, there is great want of sleep, and in general low muttering delirium. The treatment consists in the exhibition of bark and opium internally, and the free use of wine. The parts should be covered with folds of lint, moistened with cam- phorated spirits of wine, and the limb wrapped in cotton. But httle can be done with local or indeed with constitu- tional remedies. Leeches have been recommended by some on the supposition that inflammation of the arteries is the principal cause of the disease. In most cases, the disease spreads upwards along the hmb, and the patient sinks, before any attempt is made to arrest the mortification and throw off the gangrened parts. In some, a line of demarcation forms, and the mortified portion is separated from the living. The first appearance of a line of demarcation is indicated by the parts above the dark red colour, just alluded to as indi- cating the spread of the gangrene, presenting a bri<^ht healthy red colour; where the two colours touch the line of demarcation is found. At first, the distinction between them IS not very apparent, but soon becomes sufficiently mamfest. Absorption now begins to take place in the skin, on which a hne of ulceration is soon formed This proceeds deeper and deeper until the whole limb is removed ihis is, mdeed, the process observed by nature in throwing off aU mortified parts. The most highly-organised mrt°s are the most rapidly separated ; thus, thJ s4 ^usSef and blood-vessels, are sooner detached than hrfasch' ligaments, and bones; these are the last to be detached' not separating, in some cases, for many weeks or even months, and often requiring the interferencee of h^ surgeon mLV'The's n:"^"p'h ^et rid of the otfS acS of tb^^ ? . f'^^f Pf^t^ i« accomplished by the action of the absorbents, which act on and remove the462 STOGEBY. liTins from the dead structures. There is no hsemorrhage from the vessels during the separation of the mortified parts, as the vessels are filled with a ^o^S^^"'^, 7, ^^/^^^ next anastomosing branch, as m cases in which they are tied before the absorbents begin to act "P^^.t^^'^^^^^Xe' tation should never be performed, m this species of gangrene, before the line of demarcation is formed, as ^e kn°w not to what extent the disease may spread ; and if perfonned gangrene will most probably attack the stump, if the fatient should not sinic from the effect of/he operaUo^ The arteries leading to the gangrened parts ^re g«B^^^^^ found in a diseased condition, and not unfrequently °'1mpr*oper food sometimes gives rise to mortification The bes? example of this is to be found m cases where the ergot of rye has been used. , , %ancrum Om.-This is a mortification «f "^J^^ which appears generally in children before the age ot I seven whose constitutions have been injured by im- Somewhat firm tumour. This soon becomes '"beu Xde 0 Ssh"appliea .o tbe edges of the sore. S the patient' supported by ---hmg food^ by tome »i,d Etimilatina medicines. It is frequently fatal. t^^^^^ ^tS^tioncd i rtvirrSs^>" ^-^fli one patient to another, and the successive sloughs ^ luc Lm in the course of the disease. 77^"^"^,.^;,^^ the patient is strong and plethoric, and the ga"g!"^^ to Preceded by marked symptoms of "^A^^^^^'^^^^^'^;^^ Sh is a rare occurrence), the antiphlogisUc plan r^^^^ Resorted to ; when such has not been the case, nitricMORTIFICATION. 4G3 should be applied to the sore, as it is found to be most useful; and tonics with good nourishment are requisite. Carbuncle or Anthrax is a tumour, formed by gangrene of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which generally appears in originally strong but impaired constitutions. It may be called a gigantic furuncle, and is a specimen of phleg- monous inflammation, but of an asthenic type. The usual situation for anthrax is the dorsum of the neck or trunk, but it may appear in any other part of the body, where the cellular tissue is abundant. Symptoms: When carbuncle is about to take place in any part, it is generally preceded by pain and heat of a burning character; a swelliuo- succeeds of considerable hardness,—this is occasioned by the adhesive inflammation; the surface of the tumour then assumes a livid redness, of a spongy soft feel; little ulcers now form in the skin, which, from their number, give it a sieve-like appearance, so numerous are their orifices ; from these a white discharge passes, resembling flour and water mixed together, according to Sir A. Cooper, or it may be described as foetid sanious pus. When the little openings form into one, the dead cellular membrane begins to escape. Treatment: Make a crucial incision through and down to the bottom of the tumour, applying the fermenting poultices until the sloughs have separated* and support the patient's strength with tonics and stimu- lants. Some surgeons recommend the free application of caustic potash to the part after the free incision to form an eschar, which will be rapidly thrown ofi". Car- buncle is seldom fatal, except when it appears on or near the head. In some cases it terminates fatally, when the tumour is large and situated over the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Furimde or Boil is a circumscribed, very prominent, hard, dark red, painful, inflammatory swelhng, of a conical shape having its base below the skin, and its apex above It. It IS a pure specimen of phlegmon, attacking the skin and cellular tissue beneath it. The colour inclines to purp e, and on its summit is a whitish little eschar, under which IS a mass of destroyed cellular membrane, called a core. If a furuncle or boil be left to itself, the eschar on irs summit separates, a slough of cellular membr ane, with some purulent matter, is discharged, when the sore heals.SURGERY. 464 The treatment of boils consists in the application of an emollient poultice, and the paying attention to the state of the stomach and bowels. If a boil be large and painful, an incision may be made through it with the point of a lancet; but, generally speaking, these tumours need not be interfered with. Boils differ from carbuncles in their being numerous and dispersed over the body and extre- mities, being conical in shape, and seldom larger than a pigeon's egg : tliere is but one slough of the cellular mem- brane which is discharged by one aperture ; and boils are generally of a sthenic character. Some persons are much annoyed by a succession of boils, and in such cases, protracted internal use of Uquor potassse, carbonate of soda, alternating with mineral acids, has been found beneficial. -.^ 7- ^ Carhuncular Inflammation of the Lip, or Mahgnant Pustule.—k very dangerous form of carbuncular inflam- mation attacking the face has been of late epidemic m London, and in several cases has been fatal. It appears to be independent of local causes, or special pursuits. Many cases have been admitted at St. Bartholomew's Hospital with variable results. The general symptoms are ^ thus described in a report of some cases in the ' Lancet: ihe principal phenomenon presented is an enormous swelhng of the upper lip, arising gradually from a pustule, which springs up at some part of the npper hp. The heat, pain, and redness do not keep pace with the oedema, which latter is the most striking symptom. This is genera y carried so far that the whole face becomes frightfully swollen, as is seen in the worst cases of erysipelas. Such distension and infiltration must necessarily be followed by sloughing of 'the cellular tissue; and this change is made evident by the aspect of the parts after the incisions which are generally made through the cedematous textures. The fever which accompanies these severe local symptoms is generally of the typhoid type, so much so that support is clearly indicated.—Fic?e 'Lancet,' vol. u, 18oA P- Z^- ON INJURIES 01' THE HEAD. Iniuries of the head are divided into those which affect, 1st the scalp; 2d, the bones of the skull; 3d, the contained organs; and 4th, those in which aU these parts are engaged.INJURIES OF THR HEAD. 4g3 Wounds of the scalp comprise the simple incised, con- tused, lacerated, and punctured. Simple incised wounds of the scalp are treated as in other regions of the body, the part having been previously shaved, the edges of the wound are brought together and retained in apposition by means of adhesive plaster and sutures There is frequently some difficulty in restraining haemorrhage from wounds of the scalp, from the retraction of the mouths of the blood-vessels. Pressure, by means of compresses, held for some time over the course of the artery, wUl be often found sufficient; should this not suc- ceed, the vessels must be secured with the ligature The use of sutures in the scalp is, in the opinion of some very objectionable, as they are productive of irritation, and may induce erysipelas, but this may generally be avoided It the sutures are removed at the end of twenty-four hours Contused wounds of the scalp are in general accom- panied with a certain degree of laceration; we shall there- fore consider tliem under the head of contused and lace- rated wounds. These injuries are produced by blows of some b unt instrument on the head, or by the passa-e of a wheel across part of the skuU; in 'this wly CuStly happens that a large portion of the scalp is sepTraJed the head The exposed parts should be cleared of all foreign bodies, such as dirt, gravel, &c., and the flao immediate y replaced in situ, being held so by strips of adhesive plaster, with one or two points of sutui, these should be found necessary. A bandage is now to be apphed and the head kept cool by the use of cold evano rating lotions. The antiphlogistic regimen is to bl ?! Tu^ VhT^r ^y^vZrji^,;^ ensue. Ibe old practice of cutting awav the Ann portion of it, cannot be too highlf reprobated ^in' ' cases, the flap may be so contu''sed\sCSlitie 2' of itsretainmg its vitality; even here it iXff! / .^'^ to nature than have recourse to the k i e n f„ ' ''n' cases, the edges of the wound unite in he course o7? ' or five days, by the first intention -m/tl 7 ?• ^ ^.ithout a single bad symp om pl T^^'"' slight suppuradon talj pFace in ZT ^'^'''^'''--' " wound, caused by the paLSe ^of Tole San^^^ ,1^! 20 §456 SURGERY. Stance, which, being discharged, the Vf^^J^^^lfnZh lation Collections of matter also sometimes form beneath the flap, caused by a portion of dirt or grave rern^^^^^^^^^ these, if near the edge of the wound, "^^^^e disch^^^^^^^^^ bv opening with a probe the nearest pomt of the wouna, or, if this be not cinvenient, by making an openmg mto tbe abscess with a lancet. i,„wr.vpr fre- These extensive wounds of the scalp are, ^owever, tr^ quently followed by alarming ^y^t""^^'.^^^'^^.^^ Gem- mation of the scalp, erysipelas, ^"^f^^^f 7the branes of the brain and brain atselt, and exfoliation ot the turbed state of the sensonum ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ should be applied to the ^t.^ps of adhesive w^tli an emolUent poultice, one or tvso straps ui spreads over the fe;^^^^]^^}!^;^ of the Brain {Me- InflamnaUon of "'^f the tenth or four- rmg^tis) sets in from he seventh .^^^ ^ teenth day or even ^^f^'^f^^nal wound remains; to its attack as long as any e^tcina ^ nor is he wholly ™ ^ ^cient to call it into slightest exciting 'J^"^^^^ action. " Meningitis, '^^ff ' ?i,e i avJ which head, is iru'^'^SXloTlZ^. oJr the head,INJUKTBS OF THE HEAD. -1()7 and sound, and disturbed or imperfect rest. A day or two after this attack, if no means preventive of inflammation are used, the part stricken generally swells and becoiues pufiy and tender, but not painful, forming the puffy tu- mour, if no wound be present. The tumour does not rise to any considerable height nor spread to any great extent. If this tumid part of the scalp be now divided, the peri- cranium will be found of a darkish hue, and either quite detached or very easily separable from the skull, between which and it will be found a small quantity of dark coloured ichor. If the disorder has made such progress that the pericranium is quite separated and detached from the skull, the latter will, even now, be found to be some- what altered in colour from a sound healthy bone. From this time the fever generaUy increases, the skin becomes hotter, the pulse quicker and harder, the sleeo more dis- turbed, the anxiety and restlessness more fatiguino- and to these are generally added irregular rigors, which are not followed by critical sweat, and which, instead of relievino- the patient, add considerably to his suffering. If the scalp has not been divided or removed until the symptoms are thus far advanced, the alteration of the colour of the bone will be found to be more remarkable, it will be found to be whiter and more dry than a healthy one, and more Jike a dead bone; the sanies or fluid, between it and the pericranium, will also in this state be found to be more in quantity, and the membrane will have a more livid dis ease^d aspect. In this state of matters, if the dura mater be denuded, it will be found to be detached from the mside of the cranium, to have lost its bright silverv hue and to be, as it were, smeared over with a kind of mucu^' or with matter, but not with blood. Every hour after this period al the symptoms are exasperated and advance with hasty strides; the headache and thirst become more n en the s rength decreases, the rigors are more frequent "nd at last convulsive motions, attended in some with Sum m others with paralysis, and a comatose stuniditv S the tragedy. If the scalp be now divided a Xv Sf discoloured kind of fluill will be found iVinroTi th b^ matter will L found ^i^l^'^Z^'^Z^^^:^468 STOGKUT. generally in considerable quantity, but variable Matter mav also be met with in the araclmoid sac, on the surface, or in the substance of the brain. Where the scalp has Ln wou^nl^d, the wound although P-vious y proce^d-^^ fnvorablv loses its florid complexion and granuiaica S'belLes pale, glassy and flabby^^ and .scha^^^^^^ a thin coloured sanies; the lint with wh ch d e^^^^ ^t^oks to it and the pericranium, instead ot aaneriUo fi mly to the bone, sep^arates from it all around to some See from the edges." Mr. Pott eonceived ^hat t^ rmffv tumour always indicated a separation ot the aura ':!VZ: the Jternal -^face of the craniun.; such «fc-rbri^^ S hZever, the matter is frequently lodged ^ the arach- as, noweve , . ■ the substance of the bram, r; IHt 'e su cess has fXwed the operation. The punc- but bttle «y^«;^;^ i^"^ been occasionaUy practised, ^^tletneras the matter when formed gravi- tates to the base of the bram. The treatment of meningitis in tbe early st^ , sists in the free abstraction of ^ooA,J^ ^t^Ci, -:er£.^^^--S::Sfrd, medicines It is caused % ^he separatmn of^ the e_^^^^^ ^^^^^ periosteum, or both, in tne lori ?able of the skull perishes, and ^hiov. n ott Y ^^^^ absorbents acting on the living pavts so as to deadened portion ; this becomes [^^'^J^l^^^l ,^ from removed by the surgeon; .f[a;;»lati°" J^J^^^^^^^^ the diploe, which --Xi:fl^ZSr ^l P rbsteum, or complete the cure. When the ^^tm. P ^ ^^^^^ dura mater, has been detached tl e^ ,^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ the bone is more likely to peusli, inINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 469 process of separation is still more tedious and dangerous to the patient. Tlie external periosteum may be destroyed, to a small extent, without the bone perishing, as this is most nourished from the internal periosteum. Blows on the head frequently cause a separation of the dura mater from tlie internal surface of the cranium, without pro- ducing any external appearance. The injury may manifest itself only on the supervention of meningitis, and the formation of matter between the bone and dura mater. Punctured wounds of the scalp, in which the tendi- nous expansion of the occipito-frontahs muscle is engaged, are often followed by violent symptoms, resembling those of meningitis, and caused by an inflammation beneath the tendinous expansion, followed by the formation of matter. When such symptoms make their appearance an incision should be made in the course of the wound, and through the aponeurosis: this will relieve the symptoms almost immediately. The wound should be covered with an emoUient poultice, and the antiphlogistic regimen ob- served. When the inflammation has subsided the wound may be dressed in the usual way. Blows on the head, in which the scalp is not wounded are frequently followed by the formation of a bloody tumour. This appears immediately after the receipt of the injury, and is caused by the rupture of some of the subcutaneous vessels, which force out the blood into the cellular tissue, between the pencranium and periosteum Un examming the tumour, the finger sinks into its centre whilst Its circumference is hard and resisting. This ap' pearancc, which is caused by the blood being coagulated in the circumference where the cells of the cellular sub- stance are ruptured, whilst it is fluid in the centre has been mistaken for a depressed fracture of the skull' It may be distinguished by passing the fingers along the calp; on arnvmg at the circumference of the bloody tumour, the fingers are first elevated and then sink in th'I centre; whereas, in the depressed fracture, the fingers at blond?? depression. The treatment Tthl bloody tumour consists in the application of cold evano lating lotions in order to cause its removal by the actfon of the absorbents. Should these be found b lyden pressure, or the use of blisters, may be resorted to Ope°470 SURGERY. itiK of such tumours is justifiable where inflammation has •dtfacked them, and matter has formed. A puncture may now be made into them, and their contents pven ex,t to Opening of them at an earlier period is hkely to be followed by inflammation of the periosteum, death of the bone and in many cases may be foUowed by disease of the bram ''^'%uries of the Bones of the Cranvum.-The bones of the sku mce all other bones, are subject to fracture, either impie or compound. A simple fracture ot the skull Sut any displacement of the bones, is usually called a Is ure The most useful division of the fractures of the Si is into-lst, " those in which the fractui-ed bones are SdeUsed;'' and, 2d, "those in which they are depressed below the level of the surrounding bones. There are no symptoms pecubar to a simple fracture of the skull unattended with depression nor is there any jTec^ar plan of treatment required for them. Should Lmpto^^^^^^^^ inflammation appear they are to be trea ed iTeadv laid down m treating of memngiUs. No sur- geon sjLt^ed in cutting through the scalp m order to Scertam whether a fracture exists or not, as m so doing ? there be a fracture, he converts it from a simple into a It there oe a n ^ ^^^^^ jjjade compouna one f ^^^^^eed dl fractures of the SurTt^'beVeated^llh reference only.to their imme- no s rge^-;^ sr-1 of more or less pressure upon it, and t^^'^q^'"''^p,...pss„i of it or one of its investing membranes. A depie^se is generally, but -t symptoms of conn^re^.^^on ot the bmu, ^^^^^^^ i^s^r^srt2,^hS:Kes^INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 471 rate, the symptoms of compression are very mild, and may last but for a short time, as the brain may either force upwards the displaced bones, or will accommodate itself, and especially in children, to the altered condition of the cranium. The symptoms of compression are not always proportionate to the extent of the depression ; many cases are recorded in which the bone was depressed'to the extent of an inch and more, without a single bad symptom Fractures of the outer wall of the frontal sinus, in whicli the internal plate of the bone is depressed into the cavity should not be mistaken for a fracture of the whole of the bone. When then we meet with a depressed fracture, accom- panied with symptoms of compression, our attention is to be directed to the relief or removal of the latter Where a wound exposes the fracture, it is well to raise the bone at once, even if no symptoms of compression be present as insanity or epilepsy may result from the depression if allowed to remain : no injury is done to the parts by raising the bone. The treatment next to be pursued consists in the application of leeches to the head, and the abstraction adult, followed by the use of purgative medicines. Bv these means the quantity of blood circulating in the brain Itsel'fT'tt 'r' 'T^^''^ to liccommodate Itself 0 the diminished cavity of the cranium, and at the same time the setting in of inflammatory symptoms is guarded against. Should the symptoms of LmprSsion continue unrelieved, or become i'nciiased, after Se use of these remedies, we are obliged to proceed to the elevation ot the depressed portion of bone. If the scalp his not me t acture. This being done, the bone is raised hv mtroducmg the point of the elevator, or other in luntnf under its depressed margin to a level with thl ., ' bone. It frequently happens that thTs Lnt be "^''^'"^^ phshed, m consequence of the depressed bo'A, lapped considerably by the remainS r rf the eran unf ' are here obliged to remove a portion of the sku I n II absolutely necessary for X tn-pL^.^ T^^tplt: ^r472 STJRGEKY. Hev's saw may be used for the removal of the bone. If the trephine be used, a piece of bone corresponding to one half only of the crown of the mstrument, or a little more flmn onlhalf, so as to allow of the fixing of the pin wiU beTn gen ral sufficient. These instrunnents, it is ev.dent, should not press or act on the depressed portion of bone. The bo'ie^being elevated, the symptoms of compression frequently disappear. This is not always the case, as some b ood may be extravasated in the interior of the crrnlum, which still presses on the bram, or this organ ^ayr 0 injured as to prevent it resuming its accustomed Suctions immediately. We have recourse again to the antiphlogistic regimei whicli, if the extravasated b oodbe not large in quaiitity, or the injury of tbe bram not great, ""'inTw'cases is the surgeon justified in havv.ig recourse • J / /,7 tn the removal of a portion of the cramum, tt e only n w^h the sym'ptoms of compression ar so Solent as^not to yield to bloodletting, and threaten Z mmediate death of the patient; or where a portion of tie Wis driven into the dura mater and brain which atter case is n general indicated by spasmodic tyitchings if he mus les of the face, or other part of tbe body, and 1st frequently on the side opposite that which has been meningitis. . ^, v exposed to .3 it, name implies, is --^^ll^rTM: on the brain, exereised by some »f f »'"7„eMINJURIES OF THE HEAD, 473 These symptoms are liable to some variations; thus, one pupil only may be dilated, or both may be even contracted, the stertorous breathing may be wanting altogether, and the pulse is frequently irregular, as well as slow. A relaxa- tion of the sphincters, admitting of an involuntary discharge of the faeces and urine, is a worse symptom than retention of these discharges. We have already described the treat- ment to be adopted in case of a depressed hone producing dangerous symptoms. We may mention, in addition, that the inner table of the skull is, in some cases, alone broken and this pressing on the brain produces the most violent symptoms. The application of the trephine can alone enable us to raise the depressed portion of bone. Extravamted blood may be produced from a rupture of some of the meningeal arteries, of one of the sinuses, or of the veins in the interior of the brain. The situation of the extravasation, therefore, depends on the vessel injured, and thus the blood maybe effused, either between the bone and dura mater, into the arachnoid sac, on the surface of the brain, or in its substance. Unfortunately, there are no pecuhar symptoms which indicate the precise situation, in which the blood is extravasated. When the compression appears to be caused by effused blood, we have recourse to general blood etting, in order, first, to restrain the further effusion of blood, and to relieve the brain as much as possible from the compression, by diminishing the quantity of blood circulating in its veins; secondly, to increase the action of the absorbents, and prevent the occurrence of inflammation. Bloodletting should be followed bv the free use of purgative medicines, of which calomel, succeeded bv sahne aperients, is to be preferred. When these medicines do not act on the bowels, a terebinthinate enema ZuTd be administered. If retention of urine be present, the fluid is to be drawn off with the catheter. When these remedies fail to give rehef and tT,« ,,n+- . appears to be sinking beneath L effet of'^tl tS^^rS sion, the trephine is our last resource. By removin^S" this ins rument a portion of bone over th^e stTcle.f nart we shall give vent to any fluid effused between be K i and dura mater; but when the fluid ha been effi sed n the other situations mentioned, but little success S fo low our operation. Puncturing the dura ma e wm havei SUllGEBY. but little effect, as the blood, when in arachnoid sac gravitates towards the base of the cranium or is spread surface of *e b^in ^^J^^^^^^^ZZ^Zl 1 patiLt .i*cut success we ca„ on ^ bo . Trtoo freauentlv happens that the patient sinks betore at some far distant point and g,^, /recess some surgeons repudiate its use altog^^^^^^^^^^ Pm-wZe^^ ma«er may ^^^^^'^'^^^^^ surface or in the dura -ater, in the arachncnd sa , on^b^^ substance of the brain, ^his a^^etween the bone flammation. When the matter is formed be w and dura mater, Pott's P^Sy f ^' expect always, -^icates its ex.st-^^^^ He e . e^ .^^^^ P^^^ some success f^om the treph n^^^^^^ effused into any f er of the -tm^ ^^^^^^^^ entertain but l^'-^Jj ^'^f ^^erally indicated by the subsi- formation of matter is g^^^^auy ^oms, and the deuce of the acute inflammatory s^^^^^^^^^^ whilst the other is convulsed. commotion or Concussion of the f «'^;.^//;,Si trafn of symp- shaking of this organ by whic mtaui^.^^^^ . . toms is induced. In . :„ gome, the organ the brain can be observed f ^^J^;^^^^^^^^^^^^ caused by a is lacerated or torn in part. Co«<:ussion j^^^ violent blow or fall on the head J^^^- J^^tage is that divided concussion into three stages: thtji'^ts gINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 475 of "collapsethe second is that of "reaction;" the third that of " wflammation." The stage of collapse immediately succeeds the injury; it is indicated by general insensibility, the patient's breathing is difficult, but in general without stertor; his pulse is feeble, intermitting, and with difficulty felt, and his extremities are cold. This stage generally lasts but a short time, as it is either followed by death or by the second stage. Reaction.—In this, the pulse and respiration improve the surface of the body becomes warm, the patient becomes partially sensible to external impression, and winces or cries out if the skin be pinched, or he is other- wise irritated; he sometimes answers questions, if asked m a loud tone of voice, and particularly if it relate to the accident or his present condition; otherwise he answers incoherently, and mutters rather than replies to any question; the pulse is quick, the pupils generally con- tracted, the bowels confined, and the urini retained • or these secretions may be passed involuntarily, as in com- pression. The stomach in this stage becomes irritable, and vomitmg frequently ensues. The duration of this stage IS extremely variable ; it may last but a few hours or may contmue for weeks; it maybe followed, in the coujse of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, by the third Stage of Inflammation.this the patient becomes more restless, frequently muttering broken sentences; his countenance is flushed his skin hot, his pulse quick' and often hai-d, his bowels confined. If this sta-e be not moderated by appropriate treatment, matter foms mo The treatment of concussion varies accordino- to tbp stage present. In the first, or that of collapse medicines are almost useless, on account of the difficuUrofTwnTw ing and the fear of causing too violen a^ret jon Tf anything be insisted upon, it should be a smaU dos'e of spiritus ammoniac aromaticus, or a little frnl.^^ 7 should be constantly applied to the Sf i ' body. Bleeding in'th,? age is ]th^ U should appear that there I so!::^^~nS;r'-:476 SURGERY. head or thorax, which may be relieved by the cautious abstraction of a few ounces of blood. In the second stage, we guard against inflammation by the use ot cold lotions aud leeches to the head Pf g^t^^««/° f the bowels, and the abstraction of blood from the arm Bleeding should not be performed too soon, "O'-J^^J^^" large quantities, as we may bring on the stage of col apse by thl former practice, and by the latter prevent the reparation of the injury frequently done ^ ^^e braui In the third stage of concussion the ^t^^^f/°*^P^^^'^Si'^' regimen becomes necessary, followed, if the jy>"Pt°«^^ should continue, by the use of mercury, m order to prevent the disorganisation of the brain. Concussion may teroiinate fatally in any one of it. stages: in that of collapse, from the violence of he niury; in that of reaction, from the same cause, oi a olgestion of the veins of the pia mater; in ;f mfla-- malon, from the effusion of matter. It f^^^^^^^^ ^^^^f that although concussion has not P/^'^d fa J lowed by a lesion of the functions of the brain , m some rfs Sdicated by partial or complete loss of some one o more of the senses; in others by «q"^^^^°S' ^^^^ morv and particularly that of languages; and many, by I' degree of fatuity, bordering on or extending to '^Mmy attempts have been made to distinguish between concusJion and compression by the f -^^Ye S r we may at once say, .is m most cases ii"POf 7' I tky "^Cooper states, as distinguishing marks, hat in concusw, when the patient attempts to 1-1^^'his pu .e be omes a'ccelerated; Uie carotid -teries Pi^sate^ w^ great force; and the patient can. - ^'^.^ cafe some degree of consciousness, ihe ^^i^tory 01 may enable us to decide where we cannot do so by the symptoms. Thus, if an individual , from a fall, which deprives him of co}^^*^^^,'^;"!^.^"'be- short time only, and that, after recovering, he agam be comes insensible, this is a case of ^ °StY. by compression. The blow or ^11 produces inseiis.b^^^^^^^^^ hy the iiolenee of concussion ; a blood-vessel is ruptured II the same time, which pouring o^^^^ood at le^^^^^^ produces compression, after an interval of cousciousneINJURIES OF THE HEAD. 477 Sbould the ruptured blood-vessel be large, or the concus- sion last for a sufficient length of time, the patient may pass at once from a state of concussion into one of com- pression. A distinction, if demanded, can be most easily drawn between compression and the second stage of concussion, viz., reaction. In compression there is total insensibility^ loss of muscular power, dilated pupil, stertorous breathing' and slow, labouring pulse. ' In the second stage of concussion there is coma, but not total insensibility, for the patient can be roused so as to mutter short answers; some muscular power; pupil con- tracted; breathing not stertorous; and the pulse is somewhat quicker than natural; there is not unfrequently some vomiting. Fractures at the base of the Cranium.~The skull is sometimes fractured through its base, the fracture tra- versmg generally the temporal and occipital bones into the foramen magnum. This accident is caused by falls on the top of the head from a great height, on some broad hard surface, or by a person falling on his feet The bones then do not give way at the part stricken, but, in consequence of the mechanism of the articulation, at the base of the skull. In addition to the usual symptoms of compression, there is bleeding from the ears, nose, and in some cases, from the eyes ; there is also a serous dischaWe trom the external meatus auditorius. These cases seldoTn recover, as, independently of the great injury done to the bram by the violence of tlie shock, there is in general a large quantity of blood extravasated about its base proceeding from one of the sinuses, or from the carotid Operation of the Trephine.—The surgeon, having decided on the necessity of performing this operation, proc eds m the following manner :-If there be no external wound an incision is made through the scalp down to he bone. This may be a crucial, a straight, a T or a V incision. The number of angles left in the crucial inci- sion makes It ohjectionable. The bone being 'xposed and the periosteum removed to a sufficient extenXT; ,1 of the trephine IS fixed into the cranium, and the in frame iuoved through a semicircular space, by the al n aJ478 SUKGERY. pronation and supination of the hand, until the teeth have passed some distance into the bone. Jhe pin ot the trephine is now to be withdrawn, the teeth brushed so as tJ remove the dust of the bone, and the operation proceeded with as before, until the bone is nearly sawn through. As we cannot, d priori, ascertain the thickness of the bone, we proceed cautiously, feehng with a tooth- pick or other sharp-pointed instrument to what depth we have already gone, and what extent of the bone std^ remains to be sawn through. As soon as we have passed nearly through the bone,* we raise the piece with tlie elevator taking care in so doing that the instrument does Tot sUp and penetrate into the dura mater and bram. If one application of the instrument should not be sufficient it may b repeated, the projecting angles of the bone bemg afterwards lemoved with Key's saw, and all irregularities ''^:::\:n:T^^^^^^^^ except its base, where it is beyond our reach, that surgeons do not now operate upon ?s no danger is found to arise from the heemorrhag C'the sinuses'or the meningeal ai-teries, a dossil of hut being found sufficient to restrain both one and the other Mr Abernethy states that, if the bone on bemg divided "-^^l^^t^^^X tbe removal of a portiou of bone is never completely closed; the cut edges of the bone throw out granulations, which afterwards become ossified but always leave a small interval not ossified in oi ''HL'iS'S'SH.--When a considerable portion of the . b^en lost, and -peeially jb^^ been destroyed, a protrusion of the f "'^^^^.f.^^f/^^^'^tion is and consequent irritation which ensues. „„„;um. Funffou. Tumours sometimes protrude f ^J- these grow either from the dura mater or s«b t^^^e «t the bmn. It is recommended to remove them by * One part of the bone should be P-^^^lJ^^J A^^^^^ than ihe .'est, in order that by sa^v.ng our way through be guided in sawing through the remainder.DISEASES or THE EYELIDS. 479 ligature or the knife. Pressure has also been adopted. They usually terminate fatally. Fungous growth from the dura mater, or substance of the brain, should be carefully distinguished from a hernia or protrusion of the cerebral substance. DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. The principal diseases of the lids are entropium and ectropium. They are also subject to the formation of tumours, to abscesses, tinea ciliaris, hordeolum, lagoph- thalmia, and ptosis. Entropium (Trichiasis) is an inverted state of the eye- lashes and tarsal cartilage, most frequently of the upper hd, whereby the former are forced against and irritate the conjunctiva, so as to induce chronic inflammation of it, and frequently destruction of vision. This disease is almost always preceded by inflammatiou of the conjunc- tiva, which, causing the disease at first, is subsequently aggravated by its continuance. It may be caused also by the presence of tumours in the lid, the cicatrices of ulcers burns &c. In the early stages, the hairs only are mis- placed, but in the more advanced, the tarsal cartilage becomes curved, and adds to the patient's suflfering If seen at an early period, the disease may be removed by the use of leeches, moderately astringent lotions, and the ex- tracting of the displaced eyelashes. When more advanced It wU be necessary to have recourse to an operation, to remedy the curved state of the cartilage. Scarpa recom- mends tor the purpose the removal of a fold of the integuments of the lid, in the following manner : Pinch up a fold of the skin in the transverse direction with a forceps, or between the finger and thumb, and remove li wl a probe-pomted sharp curved scissors, taking care that one bTadl of the scissors is placed near the edge of the cartilaije so K his may be acted upon more completely, in the ciSLtinn J the wound. The edges of the wound are to be bro2t f h °^ by suture and adhesive plaster. I„ a few davs Zt and by its contraction remedies the curve i iL ' '^''^1^' The extent of the fohl removed ^^.ZZll^Sx^^X^^^^^ of curve which the tarsal cartihige has undergone^ ^ Mr. Saunders has recommended the onttinn. n„ .1 c se 0 .ha tarsal cai-tilage, tin,, roj:,, ^ altogether. This p an is obiectin.T,hl« „ ^y^i'^sue W„™ity. and leavL the ^ft^^.ZCl " ,es eat480 SUllGEEY. Mr Crampton conceives this disease to be caused by a spasmodic action of tlie levator palpebrse superioris mus- cle, which draws in the edge of the tarsal carlilage. Ihe following is his operation modified by Mr. Orutline: With a omall narrow knife, or blunt-pointed scissors, make a per- ""pendiir incision through the eyelid, cj^- f anRle; this being done, make a second near to the internal angle close 0 the outer side of the pnnctum l^^^^f ■ 7X;%Vtie of the skin as in Scarpa's operation. Evert the flap ot the SeUd pa a suture through each angle, and by these retam i riliCehead .ith the lid of adhesive plaster The wou^d Ive to be carefully dressed on the second and third days, ^tter whiS the flap miy be restored and allowed to unit^e with the ^mtder of'the hd. Instead of removing a fold of skm fron. ;ZCZ;J:£rt LerUace of the Ud; this plan is not generaUy practised. i , • auadri recommended the application of the sulphunc acid to he skin of the upper Hd, by means of a smaU nilce of wood. The contraction produced by the acid causes R eversion of the edge of the lid. and thus removes disease In the early stages, Scarpa's or Quadn s operS may be performed but rn the more advanced, Ml Crampton's will be found more effectual. ^ rS^is considered by some to be a seP-ate to^^^ ro^op^rTnt r/ d^Se^rw^aMe C of theTe, and causing constant irritation and surface of the eye 5 .^^^ .^^ extracting these ^^^^^f;....aturnhgout.^^^^ by a .f-§°-,^^^ff,f,t fully S^^^^^^^^^^ and the everted ;^,:^d r^^nd^S:Lgiiadetouni.bygr^^^ ,0 as'to prevent tli. lid being ^o-^^-^^ fdin^lfdfS of cicatrisation. This, however, s an ^^^^^'''^'J . f tesk. particularly when the cicatrix has been the lesuit '^Si'r W. Adams recommends the removal of an angularDISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 481 portion of the lid, resembling the letter V, the base corresponding to the free edge of the cartilage. After its removal, the edges of the wound are brought together by suture. This plan is useful when the eversion has been of long continuance. When the disease, ectropium, is caused by a funo-ous state of the conjunctiva, this should be removed by the use of astringent lotions. Should these be found ineflFec- tual, the fungus may be removed with the knife, scissors or by the application of caustic. ' Ectropium proves destructive to vision by leaving the eye exposed to foreign bodies, dust, &c., whereby a clironic inflammation of the conjunctiva is induced, which terminates in rendering it thickened and opaque, this extendmg and causing a nebulous state of the cornea Immurs form most frequently in the upper lid, and are generally encysted. They are removed bv making a trans- verse incision through the integuments down to the cvst and then dissecting or turning them out with the scalpel' JVo portion of the cyst should be allowed to remain. Thev may be also removed from the conjunctival surface of the eye by similar means. If not removed in time they will destroy vision by compressing the globe of the eye. and inducing a chronic inflammation of the coniunctiva Their renioval is not unfrequently followed by erysipelas Abscesses m the Lids should be opened in the transverse tt'fIT' 'f.^^'' ''''''''' be concealed by Ophthalmia Tarsi or Tinea ciliaris.~ms is an inflamed and parfaUy ulcerated state of the edges of the hds wii occiirs in scrofulous patients, and is Vnded tith more or less inflammation of the eve itself nn^^. ■ \ ^ diseased secretion of the LICm fgl^ 7^7' 't? ' found m children after smallpox and mea e7 i w'^ Ung. Hyd. Nitratis, or Ung. Ilyd. NU Oxvdi 1 n'^f'^ applied to the edges of the lid a b dtime^ a.u 1 H occasionally bathed with a weak sol^fr ^oflll^te^^of Hordeolum or Stye is a furuncular inflammation of one 21482 STJRGERT. of the meibomian glands. A small reddish and pamfuj tumour forms on the edge of the lid, this soon breaks and a little matter is discharged, with, perhaps, a slough ot the cellular membrane: the disease then subsides. It is otten benefited by plucking out the most prominent eyelash ot the part affected, or by the puncture of a lancet. LaqopUhalmia is a permanently open state ot the lias. It is a disease rarely met with, but which cannot be remedied, i u„ « Ptosis is a drooping of the upper lid, caused b) a paralysed state of the levator palpebrse superioris. it is a frequent forerunner of apoplexy, but may be caused by pressure on or injury of the third nerve, mdependently ot auy afi"ection of the brain. „„.„,n^;ncr Ankyloblepharon is a diseased state of the lids occurring either cougenitaUy, or from severe iniury to the eye. It consists of a growing together of the lids, and is very nri^Z^rrit phes adhesion of the lids to the surface of the globe of the eye. It is generally dependent upon severe inflammation, such as may be occasioned by lime or other foreign bodies brought in contact with the eje and lids. DISEASES Of THE EYE are best considered with reference to the structures which enter into the formation of this organ. conjunctiva is sub- ject to the acute and chroni inflammation. gonorrhcEal, and scrofulous or strumo ^ Acute Conjunctivitis is P^'^^i'^^f ''time, &c. It tering the eye, such as Pait^'^^^^f \ bkst of cold xnay be also caused by exposure coW J blast air'directed on the ^y^'^^^S.^^^.f ^^^Ue^'adent at first by wounds or blows on ^^^Vr'the eve this is caused complains of a bng of sand n the J^^^ by the irregular distension of ^^^^ ^ es^seis ^.^^^larity This symptom is soon succeeded by '^"^'l^ extending of the'membrane, pain - ^^^f £«ta1 tc ased heat, I to the forehead and back of the heaa, u Sminlshed secretion, and intolerance of bght.DISEASES OF THE EYE. 483 fiammation be severe, the constitution participates, and general fever is the result. In this stage leeches should be apphed, immediately below the eye, the bowels opened by active purgative medicines, and, if necessary, blood should be taken to the extent of twelve or fourteen ounces from the arm or temporal arterv. As the disease advances, all^he symptoms become ag- gravated, the secretion from the eye becomes increased in quantity, and assumes a muco-puruleut or purulent cha- racter, which causes the agglutination of the lid, and flowing from the eye, excoriates the integuments of the cheeks. If this state of things be not removed by appro- priate treatment, the inflammation spreads rapidly to the deeper-seated structures of the eye, and disorganisation takes place, causmg a complete or partial loss of vision It properly treated, the inflammation of the coniunctiva gradually subsides, and the patient speedily recovers the use of the organ. Generally speaking some weakness of tlie eye remains for a considerable time. When the inflam mation has been violent, chemosis makes its appearance Ihis occurs m a few days after the commencement of the disease, and is caused by an effusion of serum from the vessels of the conjunctiva into the cellular tissue, which connects the membrane with the sclerotic coat. In this the conjunctiva is raised from the sclerotic coat bv the eflusion beneath it, which, terminating abruptly, at the edge of tiie cornea, gives to the latter a sunken appear- ance. Although the patient feels in general relieved bv the effusion active antiphlogistic remedies are still ne cessary Blisters will now be found useful, particulaX Jf apphed at some distance from the disease, thi / behmd the ear, at the back of the neck, o'r on the Acute conjunctivitis may terminate as follows, causino either a partial or complete loss of vision; by-- ^ J. 1 he format ton of pustules on the con?^—Ono many pustules may fonn on (he cornea in 1 e I^T^o " the inflammation is generally of a ^l^Ti^ Ihey are caused by an cllusioi, benmtl. d,. '•™'»<^'-?'^- covering the cornea, wl.iel, rL, . tl e nT. ™"J""''"»« for,n a ,n,.ll c„„ic.;i or ^e^S b r .f:, ftom ... ,raos,,arency and .hort'continaLt il fa,„e',!ti';484 STJfiGERY. not discovered. The pustule soon breaks and an ulcer is formed on the cornea. This is of a conical shape, the apex towards the interior of the eye, and is in general transparent. When small, it is best seen by placing the eye in different lights, and examining the eye attentively, and especially sideways; when large, it is at once obvious. These ulcers are said not to secrete pus, nor to form gra- nulations. They are attended with considerable pain, and cause much irritation to the patient. Ulcers of the cornea should be touched freely with the solid nitrate of silver, or with a strong solution of the substance, in the proportion of 10 or 20 grains to the ounce of distilled water. If disposed to heal, lymph is effused from the surface of the ulcer, the cavity of which is thus filled up. In general, some degree of opacity remains from this process, which may be removed by the use of astringent lotions, such as the Lotio Sulph. Zinci, gr. iij, with of water, or by the solution of nitrate of silver, or the Vin. Op. dropped into the eye. When an ulcer or ulcers form in the centre of the cornea they interfere much with vision; as they usually form, however, near its circumference, the sight is not much impaured by them. , ^ . , Ulcers of the cornea, if neglected, gradually sink deeper through this structure, and finaUy open into the anterior chamber of the eye. The aqueous humour now escapes, and, bringing with it the floating edge of the ins, this membrane protrudes through the ulcer, so as to form a slight blackish projection over the surface of the cornea, forming a hernia or staphyloma of the iris. This is usuaUy attended with great pain and an increase of the inflam- mation. The extract of belladonna should now be applied round the eye, so as to cause the retraction of the pro- truded iris, if possible, and the ulcer touched with the nitrate of silver. This can he seldom accomplished as the iris rapidly contracts adhesion to the margins ot the ulcer, a circumstance indicated by the irregularity m the shape of the pupil. Here the application of the nitrate ot silver to the protruded iris is beneficial, as it at once destroys the sensibility of the protruded part and relieves tlie patient. The ulcer now frequently heals, and tUe patient recovers vision, without suffering any incouve-DISEASES OF THE EYE. 485 nience from the irregularity of the pupih Where a number of ulcers form on the cornea, vision may be wholly destroyed by the opacity that results from the healing process, and which is never afterwards removed The same results may follow from a single ulcer, and particularly where the iris has been protruded. 2. Thickening of the conjunctiva covering the cornea. This is more frequently the result of chronic than of acute conjunctivitis. In this, red vessels pass along the thick- ened conjunctiva over the cornea, and, inosculating, form an opaque vascular membrane, destroying the transpa- rency of the cornea. The division of the vessels at a short distance from the edge of the cornea, or, what is preferable, a removal of a portion of them, followed by the appUcation of blisters in the neighbourhood of the disease, and the use of astringent lotions or solutions of the nitrate of silver, will sometimes succeed m restoring vision. 3. Effusion of ly^nph between the layers of the cornea-leucoma, albugo.—'VhiB is caused by an exten- sion of the inflammation to the substance of the cornea. «nnl -^^^ appearance of white opaque spots, their eflfect on vision depends on their extent and their relation to the centre of the eyes. This appearance 18 named leucoma or albugo. Some authors confine the term albugo to the eff-usion of lymph on the surface of the cornea The treatment of this affection consists in stimu- lating the absorbents to the removal of the effused lymph 4. Extension of the inflammation to the interior of the e;/. -This IS characterised by an increase in the in- flammatory symptoms. The patient complains of a sense of tension or constriction of the eyebaU; the pain becomes obtuse, deep, and throbbing, and ^ui kly To pagates itself over the eyebrows to the top of the head- the pupil loses Its clear, shming blacknesLand become^ contracted; vision is imperfect or wholly Iri.T ,f^°"'^' changes its colour from grey or blurtn L ' brown or black to a reddish bn/l V ^ '''"'^ ^^'"'^^ appearance; the Use 'of h ' 71^^^': t T'^"^^ cornea loses its naturaf ^^^^.^^.^^^^486 SURGERY. or partially opaque appearance, at the same time the cotiRtitutional symptoms become aggravated, violent fever sets in, and the patient suffers under acute headache, which prevents him taking rest. If these symptoms he not relieved, matter forms in tlie anterior chamber. This is at first small in quantity but . soon increases, so as to occupy a great portion of the anterior chamber. The matter, gravitating to the lower f part of the anterior chamber, assumes a semicircular shape, forming the case termed hypopion. If the disease be left to itself, the matter collects in such quantity that the cornea is rendered more prominent, assumes a conical shape, and ultimately bursts during an aggravated attack of pain; when the matter is discharged the eye shrinks, and the sufferings of the patient gradually cease, vision ji being destroyed. The matter in hypopion may be I' formed directly from the surface of the membrane of the aqueous humour, but more frequently an abscess forms in the interior of the eye, and in general on the anterior surface of the iris, which bursting, gives rise to the ap- pearance described. When the inflammatory symptoms are thus severe, lymph also is in general effused into the interior of the eye, which either closes the pupil or causes the adhesion of the iris to the lens behind, or the inner surface of the cornea in front; thus impaii-mg if not destroying vision. To prevent the destruction of the eye, the most acute antiphlogistic regimen should be adopted and mercury exhibited to salivation; thus, even when matter has been formed, we succeed in Preserving vision by causing ab- sorption of the pus. The extract of belladonna should dso be used freely around the eye to prevent the adhesions of the iris, or to break through them when formed. When violent inflammation extends to the interior of the eye, vision may be destroyed without the formation of matter, by causing a disorganisation of the retina and humours of the eye. The practice of opening the cornea in cases of hypopion, should not be resorted to unless the symptoms are very urgent and the eye is so disteuded with matter, that the cornea is in the state of an absce s and threatens to burst. The formation of matter m the interior of the eye is usually preceded by shiveriugs.487 DISEASES OF THE EYE. Chronic conjunctivitis may succeed acute conjunc- tivitis, or commence as an idiopathic affection. It is characterised by a pale redness of the vessels of the con- junctiva, slight pain in the eye, an increased secretion of tears and imperfect vision. In the advanced stages, the conjunctiva lining the lids present a granulated surface; this, by rubbing over the eye irritates the organ, increases the inflammation, and ultimately induces thickening of the conjunctiva covering the cornea, thus destroying vision. Chronic conjunctivitis is treated by the appli- cation of blisters to the temples, behind the ears, and on the back of the neck; the occasional use of leeches be- low the affected eye, or to the cutaneous surface of the lower hd. If granulations be present, they should be removed by the free application of the sulphate of copper m substance. The nitrate of silver solution, gr. x to fj, dropped into the eye, will also be useful, as also the application of the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment applied to the margins of the lids. The general treatment of inflammatory affections of the eyes is regulated by the principles applicable to inflam- mation m other parts. Thus, when acute inflammation is present, bleeding, leeches, purgative medicines, and an- timomals will be found useful, followed, if necessary, bv the exhibition of mercury. In the less acute forms, the nitrate of silver solution, varying in strength accordine to the degree of inflammation, the Lotio Sulph. Zinci Lotio Acet. Plumbi, the Ung. Oxyd. Zinci, Nit. Hyd. dilut.! will be found beneficial. Some recommend the scarifi -cation of the conjunctiva covering the lids as a substitute for leeches ; but thi^ is frequently followed by an increase of the irritation. Warm formentations and cataplasms to the eye are also of service. The extract of balladonna ap- plied round the eye is useful in preventing adhesion of the ins taking place; some object to its use in the early stages of the inflammation, on purely theoreti al grounds^ A green shade relieves the patient, by excluding the t and irregular currents of air. '^iuuin^ tne liglit Scrofulous ov strumous conjunctivitis occurs eenerallv tesselstniie co^- ^^r^^"'"' P^^^ redness' of t 'e vessels of the conjunctiva, excessive intolerance of lio-ht a profuse secretion of tears, and by the presence of scro-STJEGEHY. 488 fula in other parts of the body. The treatment is more constitutional than local. The taint in the constitution should be removed by attention to the stomach and bowels, the use of iodine in the form of iodide of potas- sium, and iodide of iron; the assistance of proper food, moderate exercise, and good air. As local remedies, leeches, bhsters behind the ears, the solution of nitrate of silver, the vinous tincture of opium, the oxide of zmc, or dilute nitrate of mercury ointments, are found beneficial. A. seton in the neck, or issues in the temple or arm, often remove the disease when other remedies have failed. This inflammation generally destroys vision, by the formation of ulcers on the cornea. t • j- i. j Purulent or Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia.—it is disputed whether this disease is induced by the direct apphcation of gonorrhoeal matter to the eye, or by a metasta^s of the Konorrhoeal inflammation from the urethra. The first opinion appears to have the greatest support. It is charac- terised by great sweUing of the conjunctiva, which is fre- quently protruded beyond the hds, followed by a dis- charge of greenish yellow matter, in large quantities. _ The heat and pain in the eyes are considerable, an aversion to light prevails, and in some instances an appearance of hvpopion is visible in the anterior chamber of the eye. Purulent inflammation of the conjunctiva destroys vision bv inducing opacity of the cornea, by inflammation ex- tending to the interior of the eye, or by causing a slough- ing of the cornea. In the latter case, successive layers of the cornea are thrown ofi", which, previous to their sepa- ration, lose their transparency, and present an irregular appearance, not unlike a false membrane partiaUy de- tached from the part. The cornea being thus destroyed, the eye bursts, the humours escape, and vision is lost The eve is sometimes lost in this disease m the course of twenty-four hours. Purulent ophthalmia is treated in the inflammatory stage by the local and general abstraction of blood, the use of purgative medicmes, and alterative doses of mercury. When the violence of the inflam- mation has been partially subdued, the solution of the nitrate of silver, gr. xx ad 5j, applied freely to the in- flamed surface, is beneficial. Should the symptoms not yield to this treatment, mercury becomes necessary, iheDISEASES OP THE EYE. 499 ordinary antiphlogistic regimen is not so effectual in this as in most other inflammations. Purulent Ophthalmia of Children are also subject to a purulent inflammation of the conjunctiva It usually appears a few days after birth, seldom at birth' and 18 considered to be caused by the acrid or diseased discharges from the mother coming in contact with the eyes of the child. The symptoms are similar to those of the adult. The treatment is also similar, excepting that the same active remedies cannot be applied, in conse- quence of the age of the patient. The astringent solu- kto ?1 r P^'' 'V'^^'' '^''^^^ ejected into the eye frequently during the day. Mr. Guthrie recommends his nitrate of silve? ointment to be applied 0 the inner surface of the eyelids. Many prefer the careful Sivt" '''''''' '^'^^ inflamed con- Effyptian Ophthalmia is another form of purulent orih thalmia; it does not differ materiaUy froHhe simni; purulent ophthalmia already described. ^ Encanthis is a chronic growth frnrvi lacrymahs, and neighbouring fold of ^he L'''"T^" which extends outwards, anc? is ifsinllv t J J"']'*'^"' the margms of the lids, in the orm "f s^mfl tauffl.. cesses, compared to the swaUow's tail T S P'''; irritation and finally inflammrioV'o'- th The diseased growth should be carefuUy removed rth th; scissors or sharp knife. ^cmuvea witJi the Pterygium is a thickening of the conjunctiva of n f angular shape, proceeding with the anev 7.' i ^^^^ cornea, and commences %s™y from the T''^' lacrymalis Wbpn tliJr. -^.^ caruncula wJn thick and'wen1 ^^'''''T'^ this structure may be ^^■^tt:^m^VrStiT by astringent applications; but if this fa 1, f] ^«H°^ed should be dissected off the surface of tb ' ' membrane ^ts. being prolonged over the corne thS V T'^'^' nsion, i-uiuea, tnus destroying The Cornea is never flip onnf r.e flammation; its diseTsef ar?Ld^Tb? •'7'^^^^^^ proceeding most frequently from tb^ "'^''^"""•'^t'O". ""^'^ ulcers of the cornl., neLla, irucoma, IT'^''^^'^- 21 §STTEGEEY. 490 Onyx is the term applied to the appearance produced by an effusion of lymph between the layers of the cornea. Staphyloma.—hi this disease the cornea projects for- wards, so as to form a conical or irregularly-shaped tu- mour, which prevents the approximation of the lids, and gives rise to inflammation of the eye. The cornea bemg opaque, and the iris adherent to its posterior surface, we can only relieve the patient from the irritation caused by the projecting tumour, without restoring vision. This is done by making an incision into the cornea, and allowing the confined humour to escape, when the eye collapses. We are informed that Dr. Jacob, of Dubhn, practises the passing of a seton across the anterior chamber with much success. After much suffering it often becomes necessary to slice off the cornea, and allow the entire humours to escape, when the remains of the globe collapse, and are entirely covered by the lids. Sclerotitis, inflammation of the sclerotic coat, is gene- rally known by the name of rheumatic ophthalmia, as it seldom occurs but in rheumatic subjects. It is characterised by considerable pain in the globe of the eye, generally in- creased at night; there is pain also felt about the forehead temple, and cheek of the side affected, a peculiar zone ot radiating vessels around the margin of the cornea, but not much redness of the conjunctiva; oftentimes rheumatism coexists in other parts of the body. p The treatment required varies with the seventy ot tne cases; sometimes general or local bloodletting may be necessary; a solution of belladonna is usefully apphed around the eye; the other remedies are colchicum, iodide ot potassium, calomel, and opium, and Dover s powder at night. A blister behind the ear is often useful. Iritis (Inflammation of the iris) may be either uiio- pathic or specific. Idiopathic iritis is characterised by more or less vascularity of the sclerotic coat, the vessels of which present a light red colour, and take a straigni course towards the margin of the cornea, within about one line of which they unite and form a vascular zone around it; the iris changes in colour from a blue or grey to a green, and from black or brown to red; the change commencing near its free margin; the membrane also becomes swollen, its pupillary margin being mdistmct, or491 DISEASES OP THE EYE. less sharp than natural, and is thrown forwards towards the cornea; the pupil becomes contracted, and vision is seriously impaired. The aqueous humour also frequently presents a muddy appearance. These symptoms are at- tended with an obtuse, heavy, deep pain in the eye, ex- tending towards the back of the head; intolerance of light, and constitutional disturbance. Idiopathic iritis is best treated by the strict observance of the antiphlogistic regimen, followed by mercury to salivation. Belladonna should be applied freely, so as to prevent any adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens. Iritis may destroy or injure vision, by causing adhesion of the iris to the cap- sule of the lens or cornea; by the eflfusion of lymph, closing the pupil; or by the formation of matter in the anterior chamber of the eye (hypopion). This last termi- nation is of frequent occurrence. A few days after the commencement of the disease, if the inflammation be not arrested, one or more tufts of lymph, of a whitish yeUow colour, appear on the anterior surface of the iris, ad- vance to suppuration, and an abscess is thus formed. This soon bursts^ and the matter is discharged into the anterior chamber. Specific Iritis is that form of iritis which appears in company with some specific disease of the constitu- tion, such as syphilis, chronic rheumatism, and gout. Of these, syphilitic iritis is the most frequent; it appears as one of the earliest of the secondary symptoms of syphilis, generally in company with the papular eruption, pains in the bones, and sore throat, but may be found along with any other eruption. The principal points of diflerence between this and the idiopathic iritis are as fol- low: the pain in syphilitic iritis is usually not so great as in the idiopathic form; it is also liable to exacerbation being most severe at night; the aqueous humour is more Ihe tufts of the lymph which appear on the iris are more of a reddish or orange colour, and form more rapidly The treatment is the same as in idiopathic iritis. Iritis some times appears after the immoderate use of mercury or Tn debilitated constitutions: here the exhibition of Sp' Tere^ binthni^e in half drachm doses is found useful. The tur- pentine IS best given in almond emulsion. Iritis appears492 STJllGEKY. occasionally after fever; here the sulph. of quinine should be exhibited. i v • • When the cornea has been perforated the ms may protrude and form a morbid growth, known by the name of staphyloma racemosum. ON CATAEACT, Cataract is an opaque state of the lens, or its capmle, or both, whereby the rays of light are prevented from reaching the bottom of the eye. Cataract may be caused by injury or by inflammation, extending from other parts of the eye, but more commonly appears as an idiopathic affection. It is more frequently met with m advanced lite than in young persons; there is, however, a form ot tbe disease which exists even at birth, hence named congenital cataract. The first symptoms of the disease are usuaUy a number of dark specks, musccB volitantes, floating in view, and a generally impaired state of vision. As the disease advances, vision becomes more imperfect untd at lengtti the patient can see only in dim light, when the pupil be- coming dilated, the rays of hght pass beyond the opaque portion of the lens, the opacity commencmg in general in its centre. On examining the eye, the opaque lens appears behind the pupil, and thus points out the disease. Len- ticular cataract is divided into the hard, soft and/ui^Z. Hard cataract is usually small, and of a brown or amber colour, and occurs in advanced life. Vision from the of the cataract, is more perfect than m the other form . Soft cataract is of the consistence of cheese; it is large, reeularly opaque, and of a whitish colour. S JcaLact is of a milky white colour; is large and intermixed with dark specks, which change heir pla e in the fluid, according to the motions of the patient. Vision ''W^rL forms, from the size of the. cataract, which obhterates the posterior chamber, the ms is pro- truded forwards, and its motions interfered witli. Capsular or membranous cataract. This form can be only distinguished as a distinct disease ^vhen the posterior cart of the capsule of the lens alone is affected, ine Laque substance appears then at a distance from the pupil, and of a concave shape.493 CATARACV. The congenital cataract is of the membranous form, the lens having been absorbed. There is but one form of treatment for cataract, namely, operation. Before deciding on having recourse to an operation, the eye should be carefully examined, the ex- tract of belladonna having been previously applied, so as to enable the surgeon to have a better view of the interior of the eye. If the sclerotic coat be firm and resisting, and not too vascular; if the cornea be not opaque, or other- wise diseased, the iris not adherent nor tremulous, the pupil free, and the patient capable of distinguishing light from darkness, the operation wiU be judicious; but if, on the contrary, the reverse of these symptoms be present, showing a disorganisation of the eye, it should not be performed. The principal operations for the removal of cataract are those of depression, breaking up the lens, and extraction. The operation of depression, or couching, consists in de- pressing the opaque lens from the axis of vision, into the bottom of the posterior chamber, or into the vitreous humour. The patient having been placed in a proper position, the upper lid should be raised with the speculum, which may also press on, so as to fix, the eye, or this instrument may be dispensed with alto- gether. The operator passes the needle from the outer side through the sclerotic coat into the interior of the eye, about one line and a half behind its junction with the cornea, and below the centre of the eye, to avoid the long ciliary arteiy. The point of the needle is first directed backwards and inwards, but is turned directly inwards as soon as it has passed into the posterior chamber; the point now appears behind the pupil. The operator now places the extremity of the instrument on the anterior and upper part of the lens, and thus depresses it. The needle is now withdrawn, and some lint, moistened with cold water, applied over the eye. The after-treatment consists in guardinff against any inflammation that may appear. When the lens is turned into the vitreous humour, so that its upper edge is directed back- tTe cataract ' "'"''^ reclination of Breaking up of the lens. This operation is performed as the preceding: the capsule of the lens having been cut through, the opaque lens is brought forwards into th» anterior chamber, and then broken into fragments. The principle of cure m both cases is the same, the opaqueSURGEUY. 494 lens being removed by the action of the absorbents. Some perform these operations by introducing the needle through the cornea; this is called the anterior, to distm- guish it from the preceding, which is named the posterior operation. Key's, Scarpa's, and Beer's needles for these operations have each their advocates, Esctraction of the cataract consists in cutting through the cornea, so as to open into the anterior chamber, and then remove the lens. The cornea knife (and Beer's is that generally preferred) is first made to penetrate the cornea about one line m front ol its junction with the sclerotic, and a little above its centre, by direct- ing the point backwards and inwards; the cornea being per- forated, the blade of the knife is pushed inwards, across the anterior chamber, in front of and parallel to the ins, and brought out on the inner side, exactly opposite the point of introduction of the knife, this being carried downwards, a flap is made of the lower half of the cornea. The lids are now to be closed, and the eye kept quiet for a short time; the flap is then raised, and the curved needle introduced into the anterior chamber, and the capsule cut through, when the lens will either faU out, or may be removed with the curette. Some prefer making the section ot the cornea upwards or obliquely to one side. The section up- wards has been advocated by Mr. Lawrence, and appears certainly to be preferable. The operation of extraction is best suited to the removal of the hard cataract, those previously described to the soft species of cataract. In the performance of these operations, much care is required, m order to avoid wounding the iris, and in that of extraction, to prevent the escape of the vitreous humour. Chddren, affected with congenital cataract, should be operated upon early, some say not later than the fourth month after birth. The operation best suited to this form of the disease is that of lacerating the capsule of the lens, either through the cornea, or by introducing the needle belund the edge of the cornea, as in the operation of couching. ON AMAUROSIS. Amaurosis is a paralysed state of the retina, or optic nerve, whereby vision is either very imperfect, or is wholly lost. The symptoms are impairment of vision, a dilated pupil, immovable iris, and a bright metalhc appearance of the interior of the eye. The disease is usually preceded by the appearance of muscsE volitantes, or flashes of fire495 OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. before the eye, and not unfrequently by pains in the eye, orbit, or head. Amaurosis may depend either on a func- tional, or an organic disease of the retina, or optic nerve. In the former case, the abstraction of blood will be found useful, combined with counter-irritants, near the seat of the disease, and the exhibition of alterative doses of mer- cury. In the latter, we should use in addition, tonic medicines, stimulant applications to the eye, and mercury in larger quantities, so as to produce salivation. Amau- rosis is frequently caused by disease of the origins of the optic nerves, or brain itself. In these cases nothing can be done for the patient. A partial or temporary amau- rosis has been often induced by depletions of the body of various kinds, such as haemorrhages, lactation, excessive indulgence in venery, &c. The remedies here required are sufficiently obvious. Sometimes it is a consequence of retinitis, GLAUCOMA. This is a diseased state of the vitreous humour, which appears behind the pupil, of a greenish colour. The eye is generally disorganised, and is seldom recovered. HYDROPHTHALMIA is a dropsical state of the eye: the eye is distended with fluid, the sclerotic coat becomes thinned and the cornea widened, and vision is wholly lost. Treatment is generally of no avail. Puncturing the cornea, so as to draw off the effused fluid, has been tried, but with little success. OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. Where the natural opening in the iris has become closed, from previous inflammation or any other cause It is proposed to form an artificial opening in the mem- brane. This is accomplished, 1st, by simply incising the iris, {Coretomia); 2d, bv cuttine-n,.t a portion of the iris, (CW^o^zia); 3d, by d;tach ng^a jortion o the ins from the ciliary ligament, {Coredialysu). ^ The operation of coretomia is seldom resorted to. Corectomia is performed as recommended by Mr. Gibson,, by maS an incs.on through the cornea into the anterior chambr t^^ Ih" being made to protrude, a portion of it is .tiinnJ,! .i L scissors. Coredialysis is performed by de ad L -It ' ^ needle, the iris from the ciliary ligamentVpSTiraC-tSTJEOEEY. 496 part of the cornea. These operations in general fail, from the severe inflammation which supervenes. EXTIRPATION OF THE EYE. The globe of tlie eye is occasionally removed when affected with cancer or fungus hsematodes, or melanosis. The eye should be first fixed with a tenaculum, or suture, passed through its anterior part; then the lids may be separated by a knife at the outer canthus, and with a straight double-edged knife the cellulai- tissue and muscles surrounding the eye are to be divided; the optic nerve is now to be cut across with a curved knife or scissors, and the diseased mass removed. The bleeding may be restrained by filling the orbit temporarily with dossils of lint. The lacrymal gland should be always removed with the eye, as it can be no longer of use when that has been extirpated, and it may cause a return of the disease if left. The lacrymal gland may be removed, when desired, without injury to the globe of the eye. The operation is performed by making an incision through the upper hd, a Uttle below the superior edge of the orbit, and then dis- secting out the diseased mass. For Cancer and Fungus Hsematodes of the Eye, vide Cancer and Fungus Hsematodes. ON FISTULA LACETMALIS. Fistula lacrymalis is a disease of the lacrymal sac, caused by an obstruction to the flow of tears along the nasal duct; but the term Fistula Lacrymalis strictly means a fistulous opening on the cheek, communicating with the lacrymal sac. The symptoms of this disease are an epi- phora, or watering of the eye, from the tears flowing oyer the inferior lid, a chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye, a distension of the lacrymal sac, attended with a discharge of a muco-purulent fluid mixed with tears from the puncta lacrymaUa, when the sac is compressed, and a dry state of the corresponding nostril. Fistula lacrymalis may be produced by common inflammation, but it is frequently induced by a syphilitic taint in the consti- tution. It is divided into three stages, 1st, when there is only a simply distended state of the lacrymal sac; 2d, ■when there is inflammation and suppuration of the sac; 3d, where a fistulous opening has been formed in the lacrymal sac, by the escape of the purulent matter from497 FISTULA LACEYMALIS. the interior. In the first stage the disease may be relieved or removed altogether, by the use of leeches and fomenta- tions to the eye, with the use of astringent ointments to the edges of the hd, and the occasional injection of fluids, by means of a fine syringe, along the puncta lacrymalia, into the nose, or by the introduction of a fine probe or bristle. In the more advanced stages an operation becomes necessary for its removal; this is performed as follows : Make an incision with a sharp-pointed knife into the lacrymal sac, commencing it immediately below the tendo-oculi, and extending it downwards and outwards to the extent of about three quarters of an mch, parallel to, and to the outer side of, the angular vein and artery; pass a probe downwards into the nasal duct, to free the canal, then introduce the style and allow it to remain until the canal becomes permanently free, withdrawing it occasionally for the purpose of cleansing it. The wound should be dressed with a dossil of dry lint, covered with a small piece of adhesive plaster. The style must be from an inch to an inch and a quarter in length. Before deciding on the existence of an obstruction in the nasal duct, the state of the puncta lacrymalia and nasal cavity should be ascertained, as an obstructed state of the former, or a tumour in the latter, will present most ot the symptoms of fistula laciymaUs. When fistula lacrymahs has been of long continuance, the os unguis becomes canous, and must exfoUate before the disease 18 removed. Salimry fistula.—is a fistulous aperture in one of the salivary ducts, opening externally, through which the saliva escapes, and is generally caused by a wound The duct of the parotid gland, from its exposed situation, is most lable o it The patient suffers from the deforr^ity caused by the disease, and from the injury to diistTon the consequence of the loss of the saliva^ Where S wound of the duct is recent, the edges should be brought together and united, if possible by the first intention fh I continuity of the duct is thus often preserver or ' fr^tfrthe'sX:!; teuy into he mouth Where a fistula has formed a seton '^12:-.^—^^^^ P^^^-med this o;tationt He introduced two fingers of his left hand into the patient's mouth,498 SURGEttY. and placing them between the teeth and the cheek, opposite the fistula, thus kept the integuments tense, and the gums from being injured. He then introduced a small hydrocele trocar with its eanula, just before the opening of the posterior part of the duct, and pushed it through the cheek, in a direction a little inclined forwards. The trocar being withdrawn, a thread, with a seton, attached, was drawn from the mouth, through the canula, which was then removed; the thread being allowed to remain out of the external wound, and fixed by adhesive plaster, so as to secure the seton in its inner part. In the course of a few weeks, the ex- ternal wound being nearly closed, the seton was withdrawn, and thus a free canal was formed for the discharge of the saliva mto the mouth. DISEASES or THE NOSE AND NASAL CAVITY. Lipoma of the nose—This is a chronic enlargement ot the integuments of the nose, and subjacent cellular sub- stance, which frequently attains a large size, presenting a cauliflower appearance, and great deformity. The tu- mours should be cut away in such a manner as not to injure the cartilages of the nose, and the operation may require to be repeated every three or four years, as in the case of a patient of the late Mr. Liston. The principal diseases to which the nasal cavity is subject are polypous and other tumours, and epistaxis. Polypi of the nose appear in general in adult or ad- vanced life. They have been divided by Mr. Pott into the benign and malignant. Mr. Bell considers that all polypi wiU, in the course of time, become mahgnaut. Sir A. Cooper has divided them into the gelatinous, hydatid, fungoid, and carcinomatous, of which the first two may be considered as benign, the last two as maUgnant. Ut these the gelatinous is the most frequent. . ^, The gelatinous polypi almost invariably grow from the outer wall of the nasal cavity, from one of the spongy bones, most frequently the middle. The tumour may exist for some time before the patient becomes aware ot its presence. As it increases in size, the passage ot air through that side of the nose in which the tumour is situ- ated becomes impeded, particularly dunng moist weather, when the tumour swells from diminished atmospheric pressure; the patient feels it moving dunng respiration the sense of smell is impaired on that side, as is also tnai of hearing, from the pressure against the Eustachian tube,DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 499 there is also a discharge of tears, or epiphora, from the corresponding eye, from the extremity of the nasal duct being pressed on, wliile that side of the nose is drier tfian usual, and the patient's voice becomes nasal. There is no pain attending the disease, and no external deformity, until the tumour increases in size, when it causes a pro- jection on one side of the nose, and may appear through the anterior nares. On examining the nasal cavity, the polypus will be found of a palish or greyish light-brown colour, not unlike a grape, of a pyriform shape, being attached by its smaller extremity, slightly transparent, and possessing a few vessels, which ramify near its root. Eemoval is the only effectual treatment of polypi. They may be removed by extraction, the ligature, excision, or by the application of caustic. Extraction is effected by means of a polypus-forceps. A probe is first passed up the nose, to ascertain the precise situation and extent of the attachment of the polvpus. The forceps is now in- troduced, and the tumour laid hold of by the root, for, if caught near the fundus it will break down and come away only in parts The root of the tumour being firmly grasped in the blades of the forceps, the tumour may be removed by a sudden jerk, or by twisting the forceps round and then dragging it away. By this forcible removal of the tumour, its root sloughs, and the disease is completely eradicated The removal of a portion of the spongy bone renders this still more secure. The polypus being removed, an examination of the nose should be made, to ascertain if any others exist. Should this be the case, they must be removed in like manner The point of attachment of each polypus may be touched with the solid nitrate of silver, or a solution of this sub- stance injected into the nose. The ligature is seldom used except where the polvpua is attached far back in the nose, and projects into the pharynx posteriorly. In this case the tumour cannot be seen but may be felt by passing the fingers through the mouth behmd the velum. Deglutition it interfered\dth in such cases. The operation is performed as follows: Through the double canula, pass a sUver wire so n<! M f,..,v, „ the pharynx. The noose is now ' 7 ^ necessary, into to the ears of llic cZl. Td IK., • T """"^SURGEEY. 500 arrested in it. The instrument is to be allowed to remain until the polypus drops away, which will take place in a few days. • During the interval the wire should be tightened daily, by the twisting of the canula. It is safer to remove the polypus with the forceps as soon as it appears to be. sufficiently detached than to allow it to drop away, as it may cause much distress by falling into the lower part of the pharynx. Excision is performed with a blunt-pointed scissors or a probe-pointed bistoury; it should never be practised, as the subsequent hsemorrhage is frequently alarming, and the root of the disease is still left. Caustic is objection- able from the difficulty of applying it in the proper place, and from its liability to spread. Children and young per- sons are subject to a relaxed state of the Schneiderian membrane of the nose, which should not be mistaken for a polypus. The application of the nitrate of silver solution will in general be sufficient for its removal. Hydatid polypi are generally met with in young people. They are easily ruptured, and when broken pour out a quantity of watery fluid. They are best treated by the chloride of antimony or some other escharotic. Fungoid polypi are vascular, and cannot be removed from the haemorrhage which ensues on the attempt being made. They extend so as to occupy the whole of the nasal cavity. Sir A. Cooper recommends the use of the chloride of antimony. Astringent injections may be em- ployed with safety and propriety. Carcinomatous polypi appear in advanced hfe, and grow from the septum and roof of the nose. When examined they present an irregular surface, are of a deep red or pur- ple colour, and are found to be attached by an extensive basis or root. They are attended with shooting, lancmating pains, which extend to the root of the nose and forehead, are not afiected by the weather, and discharge a thm ichorous matter, and frequently blood. The granulations on the surface are hard, and bleed from slight injury. The constitution indicates a cancerous diathesis, present- ing that leaden colour of the skin, so remarkable in this disease. Palliative means only can be resorted to, as any attempt at extirpation would only increase the affec- tion, and induce, perhaps, a fatal haemorrhage. Opium and other narcotics will be found useful, as also astringent or anodyne solutions injected into the nose.DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 501 Carcinomatous polypi prove fatal, either from the con stitutional disturbance they cause, or from spreadinTto the' brain, producing inflammation or pressure upon tha?or4n Tt tiTr'-lf discharge of blood from the nose' ear y life, and preceded and accompanied by symptoms of plethora; the latter in advanced 1 fe, and caused bvTr! axed state of the vessels of the niucolismemEe. Vhen the bleeding is moderate, cold air, the application J o^U lotions to the nose and forehead, or to theXck of he b. ^ sary to vinftJX:^::;:^^^^^^^^^ th?br?r- ing into the pharynx. This is done'^asTllows '^InX'no^^^^^^^^^^ introduce this the thread from he mou h S tZ"'"'^^' '^'^ «-^tre«^ity of sponge sufficient to ckse the potterio t^"''"'^ ' P'«^« °f and with it the attached spore rckTntoVl the velum, and arainst thJ l.J ° """t''' behind catheter at' the saKLe.'^^nf^d^Tth; T'f"^"^^ out of the anterior nares th^^lv^ s "^"^ will hane tbem together on the sTde of tLIce'w 7 • Pastel blood is now forced to collec i / ^e ^^tfof^ ^''^ coagulates and so ai-rests the biredinff T „ " be removed in from twelve to twent;^fbur tours'' "^'^ DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Inflammation of the tono-„P rr/^c v n place from exposure to ofl mfcTSl^^^^^^^T^^ ''^'^ niercury, in smallpox or afLXer Tb^ r'^' swollen, painful to the touch Tnd IZ 'T' ^'''"^'^ mouth. Respiration and de'Litfnn ^'^^ the w^th; symptomatic fever t i^T "r! "^"f ^"^^^fered I'se of leeches to the tongu^ mfrLti!! "^'^i ''''''' diluent drinks will remove tl'; aSin i'"''^^""^^' severe forms, incisions should be a " ' substance of the tongue; these i "'''"''^ '''^^ the -lief. Ulcerations f^eq.ienUyfo'rm o i 7f cularly on its edges and tip, from *.°"S"e, parti- ^' previous inflammation502 StJllGERY. the irritation of a broken tooth, or d^^anged stomch and bowels In the last instance they are small, ^lumerous Lrctular m shape (aphth.), and a- J-lly ^^^^^^^^^ hv small vesicles or pustules. The local application o th. irrate of silver, either in solution or substance, will [n geS reiove the disease, attention being at the same ^:i:Sn3 the tongue, generally its app arS in the form of a hard tumour, a ^^^^^e «r an appear mt.t frequently commences at the ulcerated spot. I* ^^^^f u/root and presents the usual only PYtnUed in ma gnant ulcers of ^:Z,t' r CtirSonWd a peculiar affectio. of the tongue, met with in a boy: thickMss Of the toBgae, ° ™ Tbe sBghte.t 4„rr caused the„ to W=ei P'»to f ^^^^^^ ^ '^^ ^ ^as increased to one drachm of the xtractdauy Biseases of tU ^^^^^ J^^^ an acute inflamination on^^^^^ . J P ^^^^^^^^ all periods «f 1^^'^^^^ Vn7after one kttack is very about the age P^\^ J,,'^^^^^^^^ prone to recur, ^h^^ i,i,erings, nausea, and gene- of common fever, that IS, by » , ^eriences a sore- ral ludisposition. ihe P^^^^'^, . , i^^j-eases rapidly until ,ess and P-^ m the th oat, - -h -cie^^^ ^^^P the disease is fully tormea. evceedinalv so as to project into the fauces hard, and ex . painful. The patient ^^^'^j; ,"re,K.ss'on each breathes with 'litfac^^V ^ i , L Pxirnallv become en- side of the neck, and the glands e.xteinaiiyDISBASEa or THiS TONGUE. 503 to the Eustachian tubes, or these may become blocked up, and thus produce temporary deafness. The strictest antiphlogistic regimen should be observed. Leeches applied to the inflamed tonsils have been found very beneficial; free scarifications of the glands are much more so. By active treatment the inflammation some- times is subdued, but more frequently advances to suppu- ration, and in general of but one gland. As soon as matter appears to be formed in the gland, it should be opened, if productive of much distress to the patient but otherwise may be allowed to burst of itself. Abscesses in the tonsils should be opened with much caution, as the in- ternal carotid artery lies but a short distance to the outer side of the gland, and may be wounded. If caution be ob- served. It is of little consequence what instrument M-e use so as It be fitted to the object in view; a sharp-pointed bis- toury, covered with adhesive plaster to within a short dis- tance of Its extremity, or gum-lancet, or the peculiar instru- ment manufactured for the purpose, will answer. The point ot the instrument in opening the abscess should be directed backwards, or backwards and inwards, on no account out- wards, as the artery lies in this direction. The matter bemg discharged, the patient soon recovers. Emetics sometimes are given, with a view to cause the bursting of the abscess durmg the efforts to vomit. Some have recom- mended the application of a strong solution of nitrate of sdver, the Tmct. Capsici, and other stimulating agents to the tonsds; when in an inflamed state, the latter are not to be recommended, although useful when the glands are in a state ot chronic inflammation. ^ The tonsds are sometimes permanently enlarged from frequent attacks of inflammation. Thei/ removd unlr these circumstances has been occasionally practbed in order to relieve the patient's deglutition and^re S which are often seriously impaired by the tumou^^ tS may be removed by transfixing each enlarged gland w th « double hook, by whicli it is drawn forwafds w cut away with a scalpel, bistoury, or naiJ of ,pU V^^"" Cooper, who preferred the ligature iavo f^ir A. requisite cur/e, and then the enlarged tonsil. The probe bei f ^ ''f'''"'^ knot IB made with the tonsS iro.s I'f fhe fi" gers are found504 SURGERY. not long enougli for the purpose. A very safe instru- ment, named the Tonsil Guillotine, is preferred by many 'Thrtonsils are liable to ulceration in syphilitic and other affections. Gangrenous inflammation sometimes attacks them, as in scarlatina. LARYNGOTOMY. Laryngotomy consists in making an ^rtiflcial opening in the larynx, between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages: it is performed in the following cases: „ . , j Foreign bodies in the pharynx.-When a foreign body becomes impacted in the pharynx, sutFocation is frequently induced by irritation extending to the neighbouring partr, .nd causS^ spasmodic action of the constrictor muscles 0? the7a™^ In cases of this kind, the removal o the substance may be at once effected by the fingers of the uSeon or by the probang being passed into the pharynx, ?hus forcing the body to descend into the oesophagus. When these^means are not available laryngotomy becomes ^Frign bodies in the trachea.-When small bodies. S t^o c'a^^^^^^^^^^^^ -ff-^^-^'. 'f°' Tf laryngotomy should pev^rmed^ when we^ilh to inflate the langs, it becomes neccss^y to Z. Z hv Performing the operation of laryngotomy, or by of which may determine the life of the patient, i^aryn eotomy is performed as follows:LABYNGOTOMY. 505 from above downwards, on the mesial line, through the integu- ments, and between the crico-thjToid muscles; the crico-thyroid ligament is exposed, open into this with the lancet or scalpel If necessary, as in cases of foreign bodies in the trachea, the inci-' sion may be prolonged upwards, through the thyroid cartilage as far as the attachment of the chordaj vocales, and downwards through the cricoid, as far as the upper edge of the thyroid body. If the foreign body should be impacted in the trachea a gum elastic catheter may be introduced, and thus the bodv dislodged, _ Tracheotomy or Bronchotomy is the operation of open- ing the tracliea immediately above the sternum It is performed in cases of acute and chronic laryngitis' croup where children or others have swallowed boiling water or sulphuric acid and occasionally in syphilitic a£fections of tbe larynx. Ihe operation is performed as follows : "pvwl^'"'°^^^^'^'^•^""ibent posture, with the head and neck Wfh ' T about two inches and a half in length, on the mesial line, over the trachea commencing at tl e upper edge of the sternum. In this, the integuments afd fasc a are cut through, and the knife passes between the terno-hyoTd and thyroid muscles of each side; separate these muscles, and by tearing hrough some cellular tissue, the trachea will be Exposed having in front of it the thyroid plexus of veins. These shoS be avoided as they are large, and will, if wounded, pour oufa large quantity of blood, during the flow of which the trachea cannot be opened, as immediate suffocation of the patient would be the result, from the blood being sucked into the trachea The trachea IS now to be opened, whilst the patient makes an effort perpendicularly If the opening be necessary for some time a Sliver trachea-tube must be introduced, and worn by the paSe^t JvniH TH''".5""^r'"r^ °P^'-''"°" oftracheotomv, has to avoid the thyroid gland above, the left vena innominata below and any irregular distribution of the arteries from the arch of 2; aorta that may exist; of these the most frequently met with il ' middle thyroid artery, which ascends from the arch of the n -l m front of the trachea to the thyroid gland. In the c ilrl H ' IS a much more difficult operation than in the adult in I " quence of the shortness of the neck, the smal size o i.. .ts great mobility, the presence of the thX it fi^' gmty of the large vessels at the root of the neck and 1, n"*'" ness of .he patient. ' ^'estless- Wounds of the Throat are o-enprqllir ^„ i • at suicide. The incision, in th se ctL mn ' "f '"'"^Pf' passes through the tliyro:hyoid gaS n ?o tf'^"'^\^^ .mmediately above the'glottl, ^^^^X^:^, 225Qg SUEGERY. cess of the epidoUis. The hemorrhage from the wound hou d first b'e'restrained by securing the bleedu.g vessels ^ith some ligatures. When th-bas been done . has been recommended to close the wound with ^^\^'^'- Liston very properly advises the wound to be lett open tor « Iw davl a piece of thin muslin being placed over, to cover the' wound and prevent foreign bod.es from enter- 5='r:r„re:lie:«i rf ^^^^^^ stomach. ON DISEASES 01" THE MAMMA. ours to females ^^^^i" i^^^^^^^ of the '""'T^fThe breaTby exposure to cold, sore nipples or vessels of the brea t, The inflammation may attack euher mjury to the breast. , structure of the mamma; the cellular tissue or seems to con- in the latter, the swelling ^^^"J^^'^'j^, ^i^ease is charac- sist of one or niore large tumours^ s^elbn ' of the breast, terised by heat, pain, '•^'^"^/^'^^^^^^^^ and often The pain - ^ry/,7^as S^^^^ extends to the axillary glands. J becomes form or in irregular f^^^^^^J^^^.^f here is high in- tense, heavy and P-ff ^ J^^.^eonsists in tbe admi- flammatory lever. Ibe ti^^^m , ^ , ^^^^^^^ nistration of P-[Sf;;^;,f:,aP,rsupporting the mamma. fomentations to the b^^^'^'J"'^^. ^^^6 in four or five days. If the inflammation do "O /ub^id ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ suppuration may be expec^^cl i ^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ or more abscesses which may be le ^^^^^^ ductive of much distress; a jr^^^ .^^ U should be opened by a free nci^^^^^^^ ^^^^,1,,, general discharged trom ^be a fJJ J ,,amma subsides, ^,,,tter. When the "^^i';"^^^^'^*^^"J,^rVe omes inflamed, the opposite breast not ""^^^^^"^" f^he breast, or in the Chronic abscesses occasionally foim in tueDISEASES OF THE MAMMA. 50/ cellular tissue beneath it. They are frequently produc- tive of great distress, from bursting in different points and from the quantity of matter discharged from the various sinuses that form. Sir A. Cooper advises the sinuses to be injected with a lotion of rose-water, with two or three drops of sulphuric acid to each ounce. Mr Hev has recommended the division of the sinuses. The'milk sometimes collects in a portion of the breast, from an obstruction of some of the lactiferous tubes ; the tumour (named Lacteal Tumour) should be punctured with die lancet, and the fluid discharged. Sydatid ox encysted swelling of the breast. There are fluid, like serum m cells; the other a globular hydatid such as IS found in the liver and other parts of tl e body The disease appears most frequently between the a^es of hTr:\l:T'^r. "^-^^^^^^^ TheswelLng-ffir J ^ . .second place, conta ns a fluid • thirdlv i« una tended with pain ; and. fourthly, th re' is no L omtnrs^ anT^hf T^'I'^I: ^^^^^^ commences, and then it is shght, and need not be alarm ng to the patient's mind. Treatment: If a number^f hydatids exist occupying the greater portion of ?he breast ration. The disease is not malignant. ^cirrhus of breast, see Cancer J^ryus nematodes of breast, see Fungus H.ma- a ^S^tJ^rZf^T ™«^«isnotof females! before the^of tCty^^"j;lX'^^^^^ '""'^'^ 18 exceedingly moveable, and is morCSred H rounding substance than scirrhus • it hT!\ \ 'i f being divi.led into distinct comp rUents W ''"^''^ not pamlul, except about the p^oTof ml^ d.ease is easily ^istinguished^rm bX^'h '''^ Absorption of Z^T^.^^^^^508 StJRGEKY. of proper remedies externally and internally. If this cannot^be accomplished, the tumour may be removed by the knife without trouble. . IrMle Tumour of the breast. This tumour^^ e- ceedinglv painful and tender to the t^^f' i am fr Quentlv* shooting towards the arm and fingers, ibis Tease'also occurs in young females. ^^^J^ Ferri comp. and other emmenagogue medicines, exkibitea '""crier'sometimes attacks the nipple of the male subject. INJTJUIES OF THE THORAX consist of wounds and contusions, with or without frac- r the ribs, or other portions of the Jbo-cic panetes^ Wounds of the thorax are divided into, hr»t, tuose whS aff ct only the skin and muscles : secondly, those IE Ph ^.enetrate the cavity, without wounding any of the Sreiafthidt those wfich wound the lungs or other wounds of the f"^^^^ terised by pain in ^°«f .'^te sl S^^^^^^^^^ more or less coUapse of the 't'^^'a the pulse and covered with a clammy f [Jl f^^^^'T^fdifficu t.^ of quick, weak, and sometimes flf;;™^!,,/^! trexterna^ breathing in such cases ^« P™^?^ ^/^^'t or by blood air collecting in the cavity «^ f^''.reo^tal arteiT- poured into it from a wound of ^ ^f iu- The air is found to enter the chest at each act or ipttion, and collects tl^-e /art onb^b^^^^^^^ during expiration. Some of the air as passe^ may become entangled in the hps of tlie externaINJURIES OP THE THOUAX. 509 whence it is soon diffased over the rest of the body, giving rise to general emphysema. As the air will continue to collect and be extravasated in the cellular tissue of the body so long as the external wound remains open, this should be closed as soon as possible, when the extrava- sated air will become absorbed after some time. Should the dyspnoea be urgent, from the quantity of air collected in the chest, a portion of this may be removed by closin* the wound during inspiration, and opening it during ex^ piration. The difficulty of breathing will be still further relieved by taking blood from the arm, by which the lungs will be unloaded, the quantity of blood circulating in them being lessened, and any disposition to inflammation checked. The air, extravasated in the cellular tissue of the body, is productive of no bad consequences, being absorbed m a few days. If the intercostal artery be wounded It may bleed either externally or into the cavity ot the chest: in the former case the injury becomes at once apparent, when the wounded vessel should be se- cured j in the latter case, the blood flows into the cavity ot the chest, where it may collect in large quantity before tbe injury is suspected, as the symptoms produced by the loss of blood may be readily confounded with those con- nected with the wound of the chest. If a portion of card be now introduced into the wound, the blood will flow along Its surface, and so appear externally. Under these circumstances, the bleeding vessel should be at once se- cured with the ligature ; and when this cannot be accom- p ished from the artery being lodged in the groove in the edge ot the rib, a compress, or piece of prepared sponge, with a ligature attached, to prevent it passing into the t'Z 'i™-' ''"^''^^ ^ f^^"^^ Period, should be introduced into the wound, -so as to compass the bleeding vessel We can resort to no means Z the re- tTetwtrtrt'^^l T'^^^^' ^ "-"kYto fore trus L L'k ■ ''°r' r.^^^^''^' must there- lore trust to Its being absorbed. As, in this case the pleura is wounded, we have to apprehend inCmati'on of It; any appearance of this should thereforrrcTmbrted by the most active antiphlogistic regimen ^""^"ated Aroz<«c?5 in which the lunes are ininrori t i r.- to thp svmnfn«,o „ i"uba are injured. In addition to the symptoms enumerated, as connected with a merely510 SURGEEY. penetrating wound of the chest, and which are aggravated in this case, we have a spitting of blood, unless the wound of the lung be very superficial indeed. The blood spat up is of a bright red colour, frothy, and mixed with bubbles of air; air mixed with blood may also escape from the external wound. Bleeding becomes, in this case, our principal remedy, as by it we accompUsh three objects, namely, lessen the quantity of blood circulating in the lung, thereby relieving the difficulty of respiration ; check the flow of blood from the wounded vessel by lessening the action of the heart and arteries, or by producing faint- ing ; and, lastly, provide against inflammation. As the lung is wounded, there is still greater danger from emphy- sema, as the air will escape from the wounded lung into the cavity of the chest, and thence over the body, and will also make its way into the cellular tissue of the lung, passing over to the lung of the opposite side, then com- pressing the air-cells, and impeding or whoUy stopping respiration. In deep wounds, emphysema of the lung is not so likely to take place as in superficial, as the quan- tity of blood efi"used into the cellular tissue of the lungs prevents the ingress of the air. Deep wounds, are, how- ever, more dangerous, from the larger blood-vessels being iniured. In cases of wounded lung, we have to guard against inflammation of the lung, at a more distant period. Gun-shot wounds of the lungs, if not immediately fatal, may be so ultimately, from hsetnorrhage arising when the sloughs are separating from the course of the baU, and fronT inflammation, or chronic disease of the organs supervening. , . , , Contusions of the thorax are seldom serious, except when some of the thoracic viscera have been injured. Some- times one or more of the ribs are fractured, either by violent blows or heavy bodies passing over the chest. The seventh, eighth, or ninth ribs are more frequently fractured than the others, from their greater length, and being less protected; 'they usually give way m frout ot their angles, between this poiut and their anterior extre- mities. As the broken ribs are moved in the act of respi- ration, the bony spiculse, if not previously driven into the lungs by the violence which caused the fracture, frequently wound these organs afterwards. In these cases, emphy-INJURIES OP THE THORAX. 511 sema of the lungs, as -well as emphysema corporis appears, as the air escapes from the wound of the lung into the cavity of the chest, and is thence expelled by means of the wound in the thoracic parietes into the general cellular tissue of the body. The air may also pass directly from the wounded air-cells into the interlobular cellular tissue. The treatment of this accident consists in placing a broad bandage round the thorax, so as to fix the rib^, especially the broken ones, in order that they may be prevented from doing further injury to the lung, and be aUowed to unite, inspiration being carried on solely by the diaphragm, and in the free abstraction of blood, to lessen the quantity circulating in the lungs, and prevent the supervention of inflammation. The operation of paracentesis thoracis, or tapping the thorax, is very seldom resorted to for the purpose of ab- stractmg the air from the cavity of the chest, as the most dangerous symptoms are not produced from its presence in this situation, even although it should be in such quan- tity as to compress the lung on that side; but a few cases have been recorded where the air pent up in one pleura pressed against the heart and lung of the healthy side so as to threaten suflFocation; and in which case a puncture of the affected side allowed some air to escape and gave immediate relief. The only cases in which this operation is at present resorted to are empyema, where a collection of matter has formed in the chest, and some cases of hydro-thorax. It is performed as follows: Place the patient in the sitting posture, with the arms folded across the chest|; examine if the matter point at anv particular part if It should the opening is to he made here; if not, the inteml between the fifth and sixth ribs, or between the sixth and sevS should be selected: the former is best on the right side, k con sequence of the contiguity of the liver; the latter is o be pre" ferred on the left, in order to avoid the heart and pericardium Draw up the mteguraent and make an incision liCJn^T-^' in length, a littl^ above and parallel to trupp^ Vd^ro/S lower nb, that the intercostal vessels mnv nnt k1 P , and passing through the sldnld ont r hver of fnt/ Tf """^ = cles, next divide the inner intercosX and the pleura, make a small opentt 'nto it lr?h^^ f^T"^ angle of the scapuIa.^^H^^r ^i^S^^^L^^;. /512 SUEGERY. SO doing we avoid the lumbar muscles posteriorly, the serratus and pectoral muscles in front. Some pass the trocar and canula into the chest, without any previous division of the soft parts; it is objectionable, as the lung may be adherent at that particular part, and will thus be wounded. The matter having been eva- cuated, the slcin is to be drawn down, so as to render the opening oblique, and thus more completely exclude the atmospheric air, and the edges of the wound are to be brought together by adhe- sive plaster. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN are divided into, first, those which aflfect only the parietes ; second, those which penetrate its cavity; third, those which injure some of the contained viscera. Superficial wounds, or those which affect only the pa- rietes, are treated as superficial wounds in other parts of the body. Sutures will be found more efficacious in re- taining the edges of the wound in apposition, and pre- venting the protrusion of the abdominal viscera, than adhesive plaster; they should be passed through the skin only, and be supported by compresses and bandages. As peritonites may ensue, they require careful watching. In cases where the sheath of the rectus muscle has been wounded, inflammation of this structure has followed, and abscesses have been the result. These should be opened early. . „ , , , Wounds which penetrate the cavity of the abdomen are known by a protrusion of some of the viscera, and where this does not occur by the introduction of the finger, or a probe, and generally, but not always, by the extreme de- biUty and faintness of the patient. They are treated as superficial wounds, peritonitis being stdl more carefuUy guarded against. The intestines, if protruded, should be cleansed from all foreign matter, and then returned. Where this cannot be accomplished, the wound is to be dilated, and at its upper rather than its lower extremity. That portion of the intestine which has last protruded should be first returned, and the intestine before the ■ omentum. . . Wounds which injure some of the contained viscera. These accidents are distinguished by the protrusion of the wounded viscus, when the injury is at once obvious ; and where this is wanting, by the escape from the wound ol some of the contents or secretions of the viscus, and tlie513 HERNIA. passage of the blood per anum, or by the mouth, as in wounds of the stomach. These symptoms are, in general, combined with great debility and faintness of the patient; but, as such symptoms may be present ia simply pene- trating, or even superficial wounds, they are not of them- selves indications of any of the viscera having been wounded. The treatment of this accident consists in closmg the wound in the viscus, if it be one of the intes- tines that is injured, by one or more points of the inter- rupted suture, returning the intestine, and bringing the edges of the wound together. The continued suture is preferred by Mr. Guthrie. In the course of a few days an encysted abscess forms around the ligatures, which separate and escape, with the contents of the abscess, into the cavity of the intestine, and are thus discharged. Where the wounded intestine cannot be so secured, nature accomplishes a cure by an eflfusion of lymph around the wounded portion of intestine, which limits, or altogether prevents, the escape of matter from its cavity. Strict rest and the antiphlogistic regimen should be observed in order to guard against peritonitis. Purgatives, as exciting the action of the intestines, should be avoided for a few days nlnl A f P^^^trating wounds of the abdomen prove fiital, either from peritonitis or from hemorrhage, where a large blood vessel has been injured. HERNIA. The term hernia is made use of in surgery to indicate the protrusion of any viscus from its containing cav ty but generaUy implies an escape of one or morl of the viscera of the abdomen. ^® . Several divisions have been made of this disease Thit Inguinal hernia i, so called from its ap.,eirance in th- «d, whence it ,s also oc^AoZ^^Zl^^IZZu-. I5 ] 4 SUK.GEKY. the other is called direct, from its protruding directly for- wards through the external abdominal ring. Femoral hernia appears in the upper, inner, and ante- rior part of the thigh, where it descends beneath Poupart s ligament, on the inner side of the femoral vessels. Umbilical hernia protrudes through the umbilicus, or close to it, taking the course of the umbilical cord. The term ventral hernia indicates the protrusion ot one or more of the viscera through some other region ot the abdomen than those specifically mentioned ; the situations where this species of hernia most frequently occurs are ttie Imea alba and the linese semilunares. The other ot the disease are of minor importance; they are sufliciently indicated for the present, by their names. Another division of hernia, and one which is of essential importance in practice, has arisen from the different con- ditions in which the tumour may happen to be; ttius it may be either reducible or irreducible. Reducible hernia is that species which can be retui-nea into the abdomen. . . ji^ Irreducible hernia may be either simply irreducible, incarcerated, or strangulated, , Simply irreducible hernia is that species which, trom adhesions or other causes, cannot be returned i"to the abdomen, yet is at the same time unattended by any dan- ^'Tu hernia a certain degree of constriction exists on either the intestines or omentum, which inter- feres partially with the functions of the viscera, but not so as to bring the life of the patient into immediate danger. It is ordinarily relieved by a free action of the ^''7^angulated hernia is one of the most foi-midable dis- eases the surgeon has to contend against; in it, a stricture exists, which! pressing on the Pi-«tr«ded viscera, and ob- structing both the supply of arterial and the return of venous blood, thus leading to gangrene, produces a tram of violent symptoms, which if not speedily relieved xmU terminate fatally. „ , , • i ♦„„ini.i- From the nature of the contents of the hernial tumoui, another division has been made. When the tumour is wholly composed of intestine, it is named enterocelc; otOBLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 515 omentum, epiplocele; and where it consists of both intes- tine and omentum, entero-epiplocele. Inguinal Hernia, has been divided into complete and in- complete; in the former, the hernia has not escaped from the inguinal canal, in the latter it has passed that opening. In addition to these we meet with congenital and in- fantile hernia. These are modifications of the inguinal species. INGUINAL HERNIA is by far the most frequent of all, at least in the male subject, in consequence of the greater extent of the in- guinal or spermatic canal in this sex; in the female, on the contrary, femoral hernia is more frequent, from the greater breadth of the pelvis, and the consequently greater extent of the femoral ring. OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. In this form of the disease, the hernia takes the course of the spermatic canal, with the spermatic cord; that is It escapes from the abdomen at the internal abdominal ring, about midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, descends Obliquely forwards and inwards, escapes throughout the external abdominal ring, and finally descends into the scrotum. To dissect this species of hernia, place the subject on the back, extend the Hmbs, and put a support beneath tHe pelvis. Make a vertical incision tlirough the integu- ments, from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis; from the upper extremity of this carry another incision, down- wards and outwards, to the spine of the ilium. Carefully raise the skin, commencing at the umbilicus, and throvv downwards, on the thigh, the triangular flap thus formed On doing so a dense layer of cellular substance is brou Ait into view; t Hs IS the superficial fascia of inguinal hernia This IS perfectly continuous witli the common sub a- neous cellular tissue beneath the inteo-uments in oTlr regions of the body, and differs but liu!e froti exc p '-^/"^^ ^""'^ ^" of more impoiC ance from its connection with hernia. Above, the X - ficial fascia ,s continuous with the cellular tis ue cov Sng516 SURGERY. the lower surface of the thorax, and upper part of the abdominal muscles. Inferiorly, it descends over Pouparl s ligament into the thigh, and there becomes contmuous with the superficial fascia of the femoral region; nearer the pubes it passes over the spermatic cord in the male, and descends into the scrotum and perineum ^^^^^^^^ tifies itself with the loose cellular tissue of these regions^ On th, mesial hne, the superficial fascia 'iescends from the linea alba on the dorsum of the penis, and liere forms a tolerably dense structure, the false of the peiis, which connects this organ o the abdominal parietel. In the female it is loaded with a q';^antity ° idipose tissue, and descends mto the abia. /^^ cuta neous surface of the superficial fascia J^}?^^ lular, and is intimately ^o^^^^^^^^^^^/^.^^" '^^d its deep surface is more compact and smooth, and is applied against the tendons of the abdominal muscles Kuse Sthis fascia is to allow of the f-e motions o^^^ integuments on the abdominal muscles, and to as.ist these in the support of the abdominal viscera. . S me L'atomists have divided the superficial fescia into several lavers; this is quite an arbitrary division, and Thev arise from the femoral artery a httle below i^oupart liiL^ iuiai' -, . o J. „e +i,r. lio-nmpiit and are jost in ligament, ascend m front of the ^^S^^^^"^, ^^''^t^rnal epi- the superficial fascia and "^t^S^'J^"^ -i^.^^^^.^dT^^^^^ gastric is the largest, it ascends obhqueb in. a d to !he umbilicus, where it termina es 0^^^ ^^^^^^^^^ vessels are in general wounded "^.f ^'^i^.^e is relief of strangulated ^^^g""^^ 1^^""^',',7, .^^^ easily restrained. '^^J^Z^^^^T^oX^es oi The neroes are small, and aie (^euveu i the lumbar plexus. The , ^Ir'e, five in number; they take a nearly ^'^^"^^^.'L ,i,o^e pirallel to Poupart's ligament 3'"^S;^^^^^^ ^tned Uers somewhat beneath the If ^^^^J^'^^^Jf the^ from the svperior inguinal glauds, to distingmsli tue517 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. another set of inguinal glands, met with below Poupart's ligament, more numerous and arranged in the vertical direction; they are contained in a sheath or capsule formed in the superficial fascia. The superior set com- municate with the absorbents of the genital organs, hence they become inflamed in all diseases affecting these parts; not unfrequently, too, some absorbents from the perineal and anal regions communicate with them, and thus swell- ing may be induced in them from disease of these parts. The inferior inguinal glands, on the contrary, communi- cate with the absorbents of the lower extremity. Chronic enlargement of these glands may be mistaken for an in- guinal or femoral hernia. Raise the superficial fascia from beneath, commencing a little below Poupart's ligament, and continue tlie dis- section upwards to the umbilicus. A distinct layer of cellular tissue, "Scarpa's fascia," is exposed. This is firmly attached to and appears to arise from the fascia lata, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, whence It ascends over the ligament, to be gradually lost on the outer surface of the external oblique muscle; it is some- times described as the deep layer of the superficial fascia, with which It IS so intimately connected, as to give to this the appearance of being firmly attached to Poupart's liga- ment; tliey are, indeed, with difficulty separated In London, usually no distinction is made between this and the superficial fascia. On Scarpa's fascia femoral hernia rests, when it turns up over Poupart s ligament. These fasciae, excepting the skin forni the most superficial coverings of an in-uinal hernia. From the free communication between the° cells or the superficial fascia and those of the surrounding' cellular tissue, fluids are rapidly transmitted from one to 'tj^:^'-^ - anasarca perfectly tendinous, in order that t mav tually support the abdominal v Ira ft^ fn "'°'\f''- feUowof the opposite side, a C"^h It'Tt^n/ol tending directly across the lower n-irt nf i i51 & STJRGEET. ein is turned inwards, and unites with its fellow on the mesial line, to form the linea alba; a second is directed upwards and outwards, slightly concave, and gives at- tachment to the fleshy fibres of the muscle; the third mar- ein is turned downwards and outwards; and here presents I thickened condensed cord, named Poupart's bgament The tendinous fibres of the external obhque muscle take a direction downwards and inwards; a few may be ob- served to decussate with these, taking an obhque course upwards and inwards. As we trace them towards the pubis they increase in strength and density; and, having arrived within about an inch and a half of this bone, they separate into two bands, and thus leave an interval be- tween them, named the external abdominal ring The bands are named the pillars of the ring. One of them, the internal, lies anterior and superior to the other; it is a broad flat sheet of tendon, which, passing mwards, descends in front of the symphysis pubis, into which it is implanted, decussating with its fellow of the opposite side. A few fibres pass from it to be continuous with the tascia lata of the opposite side; others may be traced descendmg on the dorsum of the penis, contributing to form the true suspensory ligament of this organ. The external pillar of the ring, stronger and shorter than the other, is a con- tinuation of Poupart's ligament: it is a round fibrous cord, descends inwards, and is mserted mto the spine or tubercle of the pubis; on it the spermaUc cord rests as it escapes through the ring. „, . Inferiorly, or towards the thigh, the descending fibres of the external oblique muscle become condensed and form Po^Ps ligament, a dense fibrous cord, -hmh descends • inwirds from the anterior superior spmous P^oces. o the ilium to the pubes, into which it is implanted two ^"^cl^- ments: one, already described as the externa pdlar of l e ring, is inserted into the spine or tubei-cle of the pubes; he other is an expansion from this, and forms a broad thin ligament, which ascends obUquely inwards, to be mserted into the internal extremity of the linea innominata; it is named Gimbernafs ligament, or the third insertion of the crural arch. It lies superior and posterior to he external pillar of the ring, or second insertion of Poupait s ligament.OBLiaU£ INGUINAL HERNIA. 519 Near the ilium, Poupart's ligament is tbin and weak, but it increases much in density as it approaches the pubes. Its inferior margin, slightly concave, and di- rected somewhat forwards, gives attachment to the iliac portion of the fascia lata. To its superior edge are con- nected tlie external and internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the transversalis and ihac fasciae. By some this hgament is described as a distinct structure. It is of use in strengthening the abdominal cavity inferiorly and thus preventing the protrusion of the viscera; it also affords attachment to muscles and fasciae, and protects the femoral vessels and spermatic cord. From its con- nection with so many fasciae, it is particularly necessary m all our attempts at the reduction of hernia, that Pou- part s ligament should be as relaxed as possible; this is best accomplished by bending the upper part of the body so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and at the same time flexing and rotating the thigh inwards, in order to relax the fascia lata; in some subjects it is very indistinct and can with difBculty be discovered during y1 A few tendmous fibres, which some consider as derived from the external obhque muscle, decussate with those just descnbed; they are the intercolumnar bands. They arise from near Poupart's ligament, ascend inwards, form „' curves, convex towards the pubes, and are gradually S n the tendon as they approach the linea alba; towards the ihum they are mdistinct, but near the pubes they be come strong and well marked; in general, one stronge7than the rest rounds ofi" the apex of the external abdomifa rW and thus assists m restraining the increase of this From the position and direction of these fibre. fl?f" should be considered as distinct from the en' rof S external oblique, and as a super-added struct'^r" T . use of the intercolumnal bands i^s to prevent H pT J 0 the descending fibres of the externZuii^^^X[t^" which intervals occasionally exist, exposinc^^t the internal obhque muscle. exposing the fibres o Hitherto the external abdominal rino. ficiently apparent; it is coined f "° of cellular tissue, the eJe::^\^Zx^^\^\^ ^'^^T fascia or intercolumnar fascia wl.inl? Camper's edges or margins of tlie r 1 o ^ ung, on the spermatic cord,520 SUUGEKY. upon whicli it is insensibly lost. Some describe this fascia as being derived from the mtercolumnar bands. Scarpa considers it to be a prolongation of the fascia ,.hich has received his name, or in other terms the deepest layer of the superficial fascia. It is so intimately connected with all these structures, that it is impossible to assign to it any distinct origin. It forms the third covering of an inguinal hernia, whether oblique or direct. , , ^. , On dissecting off this fascia, the external ab do mind ring is exposed. This is an opening m the externd oblique tendon, formed by the divergence of its descend^ fibres; it transmits the spermatic cord m the male, the round Ugament in the female. It is triangular in shape; Z^apA directed upwards and outwards, is rounded off by the intercolumnar bands; its 6a.e inferiorly is formed by the crest of the pubes; its mfernaZ margin, the West is formed by the internal piUar of the ring; its Sw rnar^n by the external pillar; its greatest length CO responds to thlt of its internal margin, and varies from one S to one inch and a half; it is the -t-or antmor opening of the inguinal or spermatic canal; through it an inS hernia emerges, to descend into the scrotum. Tf the spermatic cord be now cut across, a htt e beneath the ring and gently raised, it will be seen that it has escaped\?ough this aperture, resting, not on the bone butTrTon the external pillar of the ring, and that, behind the exTe^na abdominal ring, some fibrous structures exis , iMch assist in preventing the protrusion of^er^J^^^^^^^^ this onenino-. directly from behind, or, m other words, preven? re'formation of a direct inguinal hernia: these are Colleds fascia, and the conjoined tendmis CoUes's fascia, more commonly named the tnangular liaaZnt o/ZZkol hernia, is liable to much variety, bemg ^ome sfb els well marked jn others altogethei-^-^^^^^^^^ it lies behind the external abdominal ring n ^^^^l^^^^^ conjoined tendons, and P'^rtially concealed by he intona^ pillar of the ring. It is formed by a f; ™ ire derived from the posterior surface of tlie external obliqu Tendon of the opposite side; the ligaments of eithe side therefore decussated Its base is implanted into he ere t of the pubes; one margin is towards the bnea alba, tlie other is free, and looks upwards and outwards.OBLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 521 The conjoined tendons lie behind and to the outside of the preceding: they are the united tendons of the internal obhque and tranversahs muscles, which here pass in front of the rectus muscle, to be inserted into] the upper part of the symphysis and crest of the pubes; the external margin of the conjoined tendons is prolonged beyond the outer edge of the rectus muscle; it here is inferiorly implanted mto the hnea innominata, where it is continuous with Crimbernat's ligament. Above this the transversalis fascia IS implanted into it; here, indeed, the two structures trequently appear to be continuous one with the other. from the great strength and transverse extent of the conjoined tendons, and their position immediately behind tbe external abdominal ring, they contribute much to the security of the abdomen in this situation, and thus prevent tbe formation of direct inguinal hernia Inguinal or spermatic canal. This is an oblique canal or passage between the abdominal muscles, which trans- mits the spermatic cord in the male, the round ligament in named the abdominal rings: one of which, the external, we have already described; the other, the internal, is situ^tld about midway between the symphysis pubis and the spine of the Ilium, and IS as yet concealed from view. Divide he tendon of the external oblique from the externd abdominal ring, upwards and outwards, towards the Uium, parallel to and a little above Foumart s ligament he greater part of the inguinal canal is now fxposed hefe a'fla^S spermatic cord. This latter prLenS here a flattened appearance, having its,component parts partially spread out, so as not to suffer from the action of the abdominal muscles. °* f.?^", '/T'"''^ f*" 'P^'''^''ti<^ ^o-nal commences at the in but somewhat nearer the former abnnf ./™P"y^^® P^^ois, an inch above Poupart's ^3^/ ? quarters of descends forwards^and fcds ^eir '^f, muscles, and terminates at ^ external n']", " f ^-^"^ Its length is about one inch and atS:1f t'^iT^522 SUUGEUY. distance between the two nearest points of the two rings; three inches, if we measure between the two farthest points of these openings; and two inches and a halt, it we measure between the intermediate points. The inguinal canal is bounded, Above, by the lower margins of the iaternal obUque and transversalis muscles. iT»<. b'^Kr^KC tendon ..d .l,e of the internal obhque. .„„Hnn<; Behind, by the transversalis fascia, .the conjoined tendons CoUes's fascia, and occasionally a few tbres ot the internal oblique. The superior boundary of the inguinal canal is formed bv the lower margins of the internal oblique and trans- versal s muscles: these muscles are here intimately con- Tected, particularly as we approach the pubes; towards the ilium they are partially separated. Beneath the in- terna oblique! the spermatic cord may be seen to emerge as it descends; a few muscular fibres pass off alon^ - * it which form the cremaster muscle. In some subjects a dklrent arrangement exists, which is, that the spermatic cord passes out between the fibres of the nter^^d obl^^^^^^^ some of which thus lie beneath the cord: this structure Tn elpes through a perfectly --e-l--P--S- as hernia takes the same course as the ^o'"^';'^^ to ows that the tumour, escaping through a ^^^'f^\^l'lfl^^ will be much exposed to constriction; ^J^^^'^^'^^X reasons why the stricture is so frequently -^^^'l^^ strangulated oblique inguinal hernia, ^if ^^^^^7^;^^';^ trin nf the internal obi que muscle. In this stage oi Z dfsslctio" tL extent^of origin of the muscle from Poupart's hgament may obse,ved it in eeaeral arises from the external two thuxls and upper surface "f the ligament, but is liable to --^ varie^^^ this respect; the fibres descend inwards, to terminate the conjoined tendons. , r tl,-, inwer The cremaster muscle arises not only fro"^ ^ 7;^^ xnargin of the internal oblique, but t-^^es a few fibres from The 'transversalis muscle, from the "^Jghbouriug s« fac of Poupart's ligament, and from the pubes a ^ l*^//;^/;^^^^^^ to its tubercle from these ditfereut origins, its fibres deOBLiaUE INGUINAL HEKNIA. 523 scend around the spermatic cord, but chiefly on its outer and anterior surface, forming a series of loops, the con- cavities of which are directed upwards, and are finally implanted into the outer surface of the tunica vaginalis, and into the scrotum, to the lower part of which they descend. Between the fibres of the muscle, the sperma- ticus superficialis nerve, a branch from the iho-scrotal, descends, to be lost in the coverings of the testis. The cremaster nauscle is of use in supporting and raising the testicle; it is seldom well marked, except in cases of old hernia, hydrocele, or diseases of the testis, when its fibres become strong and distinct; it forms the fourth covering of an oblique inguinal hernia. Poupart's ligament bounds the inguinal canal infe- riorhj. Near the internal ring, the cord is about three quarters of an inch above Poupart's ligament, but as it descends, it gradually approaches the ligament, until at length It lies imbedded in its upper surface, which is grooved for its protection. This close relation between the cord and Poupart's ligament should not be forgotten m our operations for the reUef of strangulated femoral hernia, as the cord is much endangered, should we adopt the proposal, recommended by some, of cutting directly upwards. The anterior boundaries of the inguinal canal have been already described. Its posterior walls are the fascia transversahs and the conjoined tendons; this latter struc- ture forms but a small portion of the posterior boundary of the canal; it lies behind the external abdominal ring. The transversalis fascia will be better seen immediately. Cut through the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle, and raise it gently from the outer surface of the transversalis; the remainder of the inguinal canal will then be still further exposed, as also the internal abdo- mmal ring. This opening is formed by the passage of the spermatic cord through the transversalis fascia. As the cb d passes through the fascia, it draws with it, as it were a cellular pro ongation from the fascia; this descends. anS i g a- dually lost upon the cord; it is named the fascia nrom-ia or ^nternal spout-like fascia. It forms the fiftlf oTX immediate covering of the hernial sac. hence its name of524 SUKGKUY. fascia propria, and is also frequently known as fascia spermatica. It is well exposed by gently drawing down- wards the spermatic cord. . , , j Dissect off the fascia propria, and the internal abdo- minal ring, although less defined than the external, is com- pletely exposed. It is the inner opening or commence- ment of the inguinal canal; it may be now seen to be a Uttle nearer the ilium than the symphysis pubis, its inner margin being precisely midway between these two points ; it lies nearly opposite the external iliac artery, and about the half or three quarters of an inch above Poupart s Ueament. Directly above it the lower fibres of the trans- vtrsalis muscle cross from their origin, from the external third or half of Poupart's ligament, almost transversely inwards, to become identified with the internal obhque muscle, and implanted with it into the '^o^J^^^^VrfiW; Occasionally, as Mr. Guthrie has described, a few fibres of the transversaUs muscle pass behind the cord. Along the internal and inferior part of the internal ring, and contained in the transversalis fascia, ascends the epigastric This artery arises from the external iliac, a little above Poupart's ligament; it at first descends then curves up- waX winding round the cul-de-sac of the pentoneum, Ind iielasceSds inwards, enters the sheath of the rectus musde and terminates by anastomosing with the internal mammary artery. It lies about a quarter of an inch ""'Z'jTe this artery to the internal nng it „v,^Qno-prpd in dividine the stricture is necessarily mach endangerea lu ui b in cases of strangulated inguinal herma, as the neck ot the sac is only separated from the artery by the sp r- m:tircord; hJnoe'arises the -ver-to-be-fc^gotten^^^^^^^^ of dividina: the stricture in cases of oW ^i/e inguuia trnZ ZVds and outwards, in cases of f rect^ngrnnf hernia rlpwards and inwarcis, and m doubtfd c^s.s di rectly ujwards. The epigastric artery ^"^P'^^^^, ^ one or two veins; if by one, the vein J^^s o i s nner r>nhn1 side • if bv two, the artery lies between the veins. ' nt n^a enLeTy'examined the relative anatcnny of the remal abdominal ring, we -^y now proceed to consider the transversalis fascia. This is a lajei otOBLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 525 condensed cellular tissue or fascia, situated between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, and particu- lariy well marked inferiorhj, where the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are deficient. It may be ex- amined from without, by Raising the transversalis muscle, or from within, by detaching the peritoneum. Superiorly, the transversalis fascia is gradually lost in the loose cellular tissue which connects the peritoneum on its anterior and posterior surfaces to the abdominal parietes, but inferiorhj becomes strong and well marked. Here, on the outer side, it is attached to the inner edo-e of the crest of the ilium; more internally to Pouparf's ligament, behind which it unites with the fascia iliaca to prevent the protrusion of hernia beneath this ligament • still more internally, or opposite the femoral vessels, it descends into the thigh, forming the anterior layer of the canal in which these vessels are lodged; still nearer the pubis. It IS attached to the conjoined tendons, and the outer edge of the rectus muscle, a layer of it passing also behind this muscle to be continuous with that of the otddo- site side. At the point where the spermatic cord perforates the transversalis fascia, namely, the internal abdominal ring the fascia frequently presents a well-defined similunar border, which bounds the ring to its inner side; in other cases It terminates graduaUy in this direction: in all in stances a prolongation is derived from it, which descends on the spermatic cord, and forms the fascia propria or •?r\'^frf'''' of Sir A. Cooper. Some anatomists descnbe the transversahs fascia as being composed of two layers, between which the epigastric artery ascends - one of these bemg attached to the edge of the rectus muscle « e other passing behind the muscle to the opposite side Ine transversalis fascia is of use in strengC ng th^ abdominal parietes inferiorly, where a deficiency ex^ts in the internal obhque and transversalis muscles. ^ Frot its still more ca/able of opposingXrottj im^of Through the inguinal canal an oblioue in-ninnl i! ^' descends, and as it passes downwaT, i 'reel different coverings we have described. receives tlie526 SURGERY. Thus, the hernia is first protruded against the internal abdominal ring, pushes before it the peritoneum, which forms the hernial sac; emerging through the internal ring, it descends in front of the spermatic cord, and here re- ceives a covering from the fascia propria, alias tascia transversalis; descending still further, it escapes beneath the lower margin, or between the fibres of the internal oblique muscle—here it enters the sheath of the cremaster muscle, and continues its course to the external abdominal rino-: it now, turning forwards, passes through this open- ing where it becomes invested by the external spout-like fascia, alias, intercolumnar; it now descends into the scrotum, covered still further by the superficial lascia, and the integuments. It thus is covered by the znteffu. ment, the superficial fascia, the intercolumnar fascia, the sheath of the cremaster muscle, the fascia transversalis, and the peritoneum, forming the hernial sac. Scarpa's fascia may be omitted m the descnption of the covering, as it is only part of the superficial fascia. As a hernia descends into the scrotum, beneath the coverings of the spermatic cord, it finally arrives imme- diltely above the testis, in which position it is retained by the attachment of the spermatic coverings to the upper and back part of this organ, where its vessels and nerves '^The principal points to be attended to, in the anatomy of oblique inguinal hernia, are 1st, its covennffs; 2d, the part of the canal where stricture most frequently occurs; 3d, its relatTon to the epigastric artery, the spermatic cord, and the testis; 4th, the varieties occasionally met with in '^From the distinct enumeration we have just given of the coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, it might be oncUuird fbat a surgeol when called "P- to opera^e for the relief of a strangulated hernia, should meet w th ittle difficulty in exposing the hernial sac, being enaW d from his knowledge of anatomy to cut through lajer by kver, with the same accuracy as he could turn over the Sves of a book. Such is not the case : these parts are . Hable to vary, as to extent and structure, and are so ? eq Sy mS t:gether by the adhesive inflammation that the practitioner, however perfect he may be inOBLiaOK INGUINAL HERNIA. 527 anatomy, is obliged to proceed with the greatest caution dmdmg layer after layer, as they appear, and can in no instance, a priori, ascertain the depth of the hernial covenngs; in some, the motions of the intestines may be seen through the parietes; in others, the superficial tascia alone is nearly an inch thick. The seat of stricture in oblique inguinal hernia has now been fully ascertained to be in general either at the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle, or at the internal abdommal ring; and this we should have been led to expect, from the muscular relations of these parts - at the same time, it should be recollected, that the stricture IS not uufrequently met with in the neck of the hernial sac, from the thickening produced in the peritoneum by the pressure exercised upon it, and in old cases of hernia may be at the external abdominal ring. Indeed the hernia may be strangulated in the interior of the sa'c, by the intestine perforating the omentum, or by an ad;en- titious baud of lymph. Such a state of pa/ts has been found in the cavity of the abdomen, when no hernia whatever has been formed, thus causing an internal strT gulation beyond the power of surgery The epigastric artery is the only vessel of consequence endangered in dividing the stricture, and this only when the constriction exists in the interior of the inguinal cand At the internal abdominal ring this vessel ]iJinteVnTmk S{nT I ""''V^ '''' ^'^^^^^ it ascends h gher than the hernia still to its inner side: to avoid it there fore, we should cut upwards and outwards; if we [n chne the kmfe inwards, there is but httle chance of the artery escaping. Some surgeons speak of the !J ma ic artery being also endangered- this is Lr^l ^ sible, as the vessel lies beneath the hemii tS and could be wounded only by cutting rW ^^^"S^^o"^. .n old cases of hernia, Sh" cord are spread out, so as to admit of the descent ft h hernia between them, the spermatic arfprv t found in front of the hernTarsa. 1 I^^^^^ wounded. The other pa - s of the' "^""^ deferens, spermatic veinrnerves t in L T" ""^^ also liable to displacement, that tl . '^ """^ finaHy make its w^y behind tl^'spermatic'^oiS T528 SUUGEKY. gether; in these cases, as it descends it escapes behind lie testis, and thus may be found below this organ. We have already anticipated a good many ot the .oriLs met with'in the economy of obhque mgumal hernia- of these the most prominent are the seat oj its relations to the eo.^ and test.j the non existence of a distinct hernial sac, as occurs in pro rus on of the c^cum and bladder and m congemt^ and 'nfantile hernia; and the complications, caused by the presence of other diseases. OPERATION ^OE THE UELIEF OE STBANG-DLATED INGUINAL HEBNIA. The usual remedies for the relief of strangulated hernia havi^o. been resorted to without success, the surgeon has no lernative ; he must proceed to the operatu.- We should in all cases take care not to postpone tne onerationTo too late a period, as the symptoms, in many cLes Jun rapidly to a"^ fatal termination, and gangrene may have upervened before the practitioner has even and permit vi i establishment of an are about to operate is hernia, and m 5,^^^ Sguinal hernia,'as many diseases be c-fo aid d with it^Hydrocele of the ^J^-^l^^^^Z^^^^ the characters of inguinal hernia, f F"^ ^ fluid reaches as far as the external abdommal img. WeSTRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 529 may be enabled to distinguish between them in the fol- lowing manner: A hydrocele commences from below a tiernia from above; its shape is pyriform, the base beneath • a hernia is more elongated. Hydrocele is in general transparent; in it the spermatic cord may be distinctly lelt below the external ring, by grasping it between the hnger and thumb and gently rolling it at the same time ; the testis lies to the upper and back part of a hydrocele, beneath the tumour m a hernia. Still the diagnosis is ii^ some cases difficult, from the varieties occasionally ob- served in both aflfectious. ^ A hydrocele may be combined with an inguinal hernia: m this case the hernia will lie behind the hydrocele con sequently the operator is obliged to discharge the fluid (if the tumour be large , and then cut through the tunica vaginabs to the hernial sac. ° A varicocele or spermatocele, a varicose state of the Efa Jheir '"■'"'^ /"^"^"^^^ mistaken for a fterma; the diagnosis is simple. Place the patient in the h"\" eTnafrb?"'-"?"^-^ -^^^^ preBsire on UD • ^f^™/ .abdominal ring, desire the patient to stand up . if the disease be a hernia, it will not reappear • but if a varicocele the pressure wiU rather increase k hydrocele of that part of the spermatic cord which is contained in the inguinal canal i's with some difficulty d stinguished from hernia. Sir A. Cooper states tbaS diagnosis fails here. The tense state'of t bydroeeTe and the absence of constitutional symptoms at the same time will assist us; should these la ter be presents else their fluctuation, if matter have formed wif] tZ' to decide. Chronic abscesses, connected w 1 vertebrae or diseased bin ^nm/ ^""uectea with carious inguinal canal : re symp m \tZr'^^ and the fluctuation of tKaUer in the'^f t'^'"'' out their nature. Point From the necessity there exists of our avoiding the530 SUllGERY. epigastric artery in operating for the relief of strangulated inguinal hernia it is ahvays desirable to ascertain, a prion whether the disease is by oblique or direct descent In general, the obhque course of the tumour along the inguinal canal in the former will at once point itj)ut but this means of diagnosis is not always present : as in XueTnguinal h^nia of long standing the ingW canal becomes obhterated, m consequence of the interna abdominal ring being drawn <i«^^ ^ehmd he external rin£ bv the weight of the hernial tumour; here the hernia pa ses directly backwards into the abdomen as m the direct species. Should we be then unable to decide, our rule is'in dividing the stricture, to cut directly up- wards : we thus avoid the epigastnc artery. The operation is performed in the following manner: The E h^ing been first removed from the pudenda, the patient is to be placed in the recumben posture, haviS Ms head and sh^^^ supported with pillows and hl kgs hanging over the end of the table, with his feet resting on two chairs, or held by assistants. Commence the first incision immediately above the ex- ternar'bdominal ring, continue it f--^^^^;^^!-? ^ mesial line and anterior surface of ti^^^oui to he dife n.° layers wbicU cover '-■"■=^,:""4™i; Zhe and downwards, and the fascia divided jt is By these means the hernial sac ^vill be ^^P^^^J • .eco'gnised by its bluish transparent appearance Pu h >t up between the Angers, and you us fee^ ^f^j^^ ^ ^^.u .^d onientum f^l^^^^ the of fhe's^c':w'd be selected for this purpose,STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 531 as here the fluid in its interior collects, and thus separates IVZn'V^' 'Tir- ^^^'^-^ - situation. Through this aperture introduce the director keeping it dose to the inner surface of the sac, and divide hernial sac freely in the direction of your fet iucisl^ A quantitj' of water instantly escapes, if intestine be present, and extensive adhesions do not exist You now proceed to examine the contents of the tumour: these are mos probably both omentum and intestine, the former L fronf, the latter behind; carefully spread out the omentum tt cau wT""^''' '^''^''^ that it i not tbe cau.e of the strangulation; second, it wiU thus protect the intestines from the knife protect Now examine for the stricture: this is best done by the front of the omentum towards the inguinal canal; it will be found to exTt moS frequently either at the lower margin of the interna oblique muscle, at the internal abdoiSinal rinrorln the externalXomii^J If the stncture should be at one of th^ fl..». a * nTuSte^ naiurai length, it will be necessary to slit up thp PTfom,oi rxag so as to bring the parts mSe comp Jely Lto W hern af t:;^ ^eing separated, draw down the omentum. Assure yourself hv Thl • f '/"'^ °'^t the finger, that the partfEave beej compS ? do not still he in the in^uinnf ^"'"f "t^^? returned, and second stricture higher nf li !' P°««ible a the hernia pas ing into the aL'n' ' ^^^'J P^«^^°* operation useless." Se omentum if^ '"n '^"^^^ ^^^^ may be left in the mouth oTthe trll '" ^"^"'^^y, probably contract adhesions here "an^^ ""T formation of a future hemin Ti j P''"*'"t the iiemia. The edges of the woundSURGERV. 532 are now to be closed by adhesive plaster, or one or two points of suture passed through the skin only, a httle simple dressing laid on, and the patient returned to bed. It frequently happens that this treatment of the in- testine and omentum is not applicable: thus it may happen that the intestine is mortified, and not in a ht state to be returned. Mortification of the intestine is best ascertained by its breaking beneath the moderate pressure of the fingers"; it is also frequently speckled with greenish '^'^ Some have asserted that a dark-brown colour, and the loss of the smooth pohshed appearance of the serous membrane, are sure indications of its gangrenous con- dition : this is not the case, as the brown colour may be caused by the turgid state of the vessels, and the loss ot transparency by the effusion of lymph on the serous surface. We should depend most on the degree of re- sistance possessed by the intestine when compressed between the fingers. If it should be gangrenous, the stricture is to be divided, the intestine laid open so as to give exit to its contents and relieve the patient, and the wound covered with an emoUient poultice. In favorable cases the sloughs separate, the wound granulates, and an artificial anus is formed, which may be subsequently got nd of by appro- ^?r*'^houm Uie practitioner content himself with ex- amining the part of the intestine exposed to view; he should draw it carefully down, ^^^/^^^''^^ .i^^^^^ Z pressure of the stricture has not caused an opening m he Constricted part: this may occur even -^^^^^^^^^ rest of the intestine is perfectly i.J'^^/X circumstances, the stricture is to be divided, and the hernia left unreduced.* , . If one small aperture should have formed m the intes- tine whilo the remainder is sound, the opening may be lecurod by raising the part with the forceps, and passing * There is no occasion, as recommended by the oW^'-^^^S^^^^^^^^ stitching the intestine to the edges of »'^S'l^^; most invariably exist between these parts, '^^^"c'l connect mew rgelher, and prevent the sudden retraction of the uitestuie .nto abdomen.STRANGULATED INGUINAL HEKNIA. 53^ a small ligature round it, the intestine mav then be re- turned. Adhesions frequently exist between the intestine and hernial sac; these, if recent and not extensive, may be at once broken through; if of longer standing, the knife may be used, taking care to infringe rather on tlie sac than on the mtestine : sljould they be extensive, the intestine should be allowed to remam. In all cases the use of force should be avoided, as the intestine is easily ruptured. The omentum, too, occasionaUy causes the surgeon some trouble. It may also be adherent to the inner surface of the sac; if so, the adhesions should be freely divided and it returned. Not unfrequently, if a large portion have de- scended its folds unite, so as to form one soUd mass : the return of such would be impossible, and, if possible ex- ceedingly injudicious, as the presence of so large a forei-n body (as It may now be considered) in the abdomen would excite peritoneal symptoms. The plan to be adopted is to remove the mass with the knife, and return the re' mainder to the mouth of the hernial sac, so as to plu? up the opening. After the removal of. the portion of the omentum, numerous vessels will bleed; the h^morrha-e can be in general restrained by the laceration or torsion of the vessels with the forceps. Should this be found insuf- hcient, the vessels that continue to bleed should be secured byhgature, taking care at the same time not to include any portion of the omentum. On no account should the omentum be returned untU haemorrhage is completely re strained, as the warnjth of the abdominal cavity will other' wise reproduce the bleeding. The ligatures may be aUowed to hang out of the wound; they will separate b three four days, or they may be cut short; in the latter case they may ultimately either escape through the ^oZd Z make their way into one of the intestines^ and tCs be di« charged per anum. "'^^ Sir A. Cooper objects to the use of the knifp in i stroymg the adhesions of the omentum nnfl. . v'^^' that he advocates the cutting awayThe n ^'""^'"^ know not on what grounds. ^ ' ' omentum; we The omentum is sometimes ean"Tenoii<! ■ th;. i- • of ..y be ascertained by .he\l„°„7be g 'aluS'iL' the vems, by a peculiar crispy feel it preint,, S by itsSURGERY. 534 giving way beneath the fingers. No green spots form upon it as on the intestine. The omentum is here to be removed close to the mouth of the hernial sac, and the vessel secured as before. The practice pursued by some few, of placing a Ugature on the omentum, so as to cause its separation, cannot be too highly reprobated; it is a substitution of one species of strangulation for another. If we are called to operate on a large hernia, we should content ourselves with dividing the stricture without open- ing the hernial sac; should we cut into the sac, a large serous surface is exposed, and most probably peritoneal symptoms will supervene. In these cases we are seldom able to reduce the hernia, from the extensive adhesions that exist; it must be left therefore in situ, and supported, when the patient recovers the operation, in a bag truss. Here the stricture is frequently at the external abdominal ring; in this instance there is little danger of wounding the epigastric artery, no matter what direction we give the knife; unless, indeed, we prolong our incision to a most unwarrantable length. During the last few years, some eminent surgeons have strongly advocated relieving the stricture by a subcutaneous or extra-peritoneal section, in preference to opening the sac, the object being, of course, that peritonitis may be avoided, which is so apt to follow the usual operation; but, mas- much as the stricture often exists in the sac itself or its contents, the return of the intestine or omentum with the sac may not be of the slightest service. By far the greater number of surgeons recommend that the sac should be opened. , , . • • ; In-uinal hernia may be strangulated in the inguinal cawafbefore it has descended into the scrotum. As the tumour in such instances is much smaller than usual, it embarrasses the surgeon not a little, especially if the hernia has only projected through the internal abdominal rmg. Our incisions liere must be made directly over the tumour, until we arrive at the intestine. The coverings will de- pend on the part of tlie inguinal canal in which the hernia is contained..535 CONGENITAL HERNIA. HERNIA OF THE C^CUM. The ceecum has been found in an inguinal hernia. As this intestine wants the peritoneum posteriorly, this sur- face of it contracts adhesions to the scrotum, and cannot be returned. When operating upon it, the peritoneum which the in- testine has brought along with it, and which lies in front and to its inner side, must be cut through before it can be exposed. It is at once known by the appendix vermi- formis. It is possible that the posterior surface of the caecum may present itself first to the surgeon, and thus the intestine be cut into in mistake for one of its co- verings; the direction of the muscular fibres may point out the nature of the affection. HERNIA OF THE BLADDER, OB, CYSTIC HERNIA. When the bladder protrudes in a hernia, there is no hernial sac; this viscus merely brings the peritoneum with it, which is related to it as in the natural state. We are not aware that any operation has been found necessary in such cases. CONGENITAL HERNIA. This form of hernia is a modification of oblique inguinal hernia: it takes place in consequence of the tunica vao-i- nahs not having been obliterated at its superior part. The hernia thus descends into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, where it lies in close contact with and beneath the testis! It is evident from this that no distinct hernial sac exists. In order to explain this more fully, it must be recol- lected that the testis, at the early periods of foetal life, is an abdominal viscus. It commences its descent, or more properly speaking ascent, towards the scrotum, at the beginning of the sixth month, makes its way gradually along the inguinal canal, guided by the gubernaculum testis, and finally arrives in the scrotum, shortly before or It may be, after birth. ' ' From the partial covering which the gland receives from the peritoneum. It carries with it a duplicature of this membrane, which, in after life, is known as the tunica vaginalis.SURGEaY. 536 Immediately after the descent of the testis, the upper part of the tunica vaginalis is closed by the adhesive in- flammation, and ultimately degenerates into loose cellular tissue; whilst the lower part forms a distinct sac (the tu- nica vaginalis), retaining all its original properties.' Now it is evident that should an intestine be protruded down- wards before this obliteration has taken place, it will descend into the tunica vaginahs, or bag of the perito- neum surrounding the testis. Congenital hernia may be distinguished from common inguinal hernia by the greater difficulty of distinguishing the testis in it, "in consequence of the tunica vaginahs being thicker than the common hernial sac, the situation of the gland with respect to the hernia, namely, above and behind it: the wasting of the testis from the pressure of the hernia upon it, and by the adhesions which so fre- quently form between the hernia and the testis; as may be ascertained by attempting to return the former into the abdomen, when the testis will be found to ascend with it. The operation for the rehef of strangulated congenital hernia differs but Uttle from that recommended for the more common species. Sir A. Cooper advises three inches of the tunica vaginalis to be left undivided below, so as that the testis may be covered, and unnecessary irritation avoided. Care must be taken, in opening the sac, that the vessels of the cord, which are frequently spread out on its anterior surface, are not wounded. INFANTILE OR ENCYSTED HERNIA. In this form of the disease the hernia is also contained in the tunica vaginalis, but has an immediate covering derived from the lymph that has been poured out by nature, with a view to close the superior portion of the tunica vaginahs ; and this lymph may easily be mistaken for peritoneum. As we have already stated, immediately after the testis has descended into the scrotum, the process of obliteration commences in the upper part of the tunica vaginalis: a layer of coagulable lymph is thrown out, which adheres to the opposed surfaces* of the peritoneum ; against this layer of lymph the intestine is protruded. The lymph is sufficiently organised to prevent the intestine making its537 DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. way through it, yet not strong enough to prevent its descent altogether; consequently the intestine carries with it the lymph, and thus the hernia receives from it an immediate covering or cyst, within the tunica vaginalis. Other views are entertained, and different descriptions given, of this species of hernia. It is thus described by Mr. Hey of Leeds:—"The intestine in tliis case had forced its way into the scrotum, before the tunica vaginalis had formed its adhesion to the cord, but after its ab- dominal orifice was closed; under which circumstances it brought the peritoneum down with it, forming the hernial sac, contrary to what happens in hernia congenita, where the intestine descends before the orifice in the tunica vaginalis has closed, and consequently has no hernial sac but that tunic." Mr. Miller, in his last edition of ' Practice of Surgery ' gives the following description of it:—"The communication between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and that of the abdomen, is shut at its upper part; but the former cavity IS unusually spacious, and ascends high in the cord con- fining more or less serous fluid. Behind this a hernia descends, invested by the ordinary peritoneal sac. In cutting down on such a tumour, we divide first the anterior portion of the tunica vaginalis, then the posterior and after this, appear the sac and its contents." The operation does not differ from that recommended tor congenital hernia. Both congenital and encysted hernia may first present themselves in adult life. INGUINAL HERNIA IN THE FEMALE occurs much less frequently than in the male, owiu- to the smaller size of the inguinal canal. It descends into the labium, and is in general small. It is almost always reducible Should it become strangulated, the oneratfon wd not differ essentially from that 'ecommendedTr he male. The lower part of the peritoneal bag. according to Sir A. Cooper, contains only water. The mr\^inr.. i 11 not be prolonged much into the labium " '^'""'^ DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA'. From the deficiency in the external oblique tendon described lu obhque inguinal hernia, under T name "f 23 §538 SUUGEKY. the external abdominal ring, it follows that a hernia may be protruded directly forwards from the abdomen through this aperture, without traversing the inguinal canal; this will therefore form the direct inguinal hernia. Fortunately nature has so protected this opening pos- teriorly, that this species is comparatively rare. The parts that oppose its formation he behind the ring; they are the triangular ligament or Colles's fascia, the con- joined tendons, the edge of the rectus muscle, and the trausversahs fascia attached to the outer edge of this muscle and to the conjoined tendons. These barriers are not, however, in all cases suflacient. As a direct inguinal hernia makes its way forwards through the external ring into the scrotum, it pushes before it the peritoneum which forms the hernial sac; it next either bursts through, or carries with it, the traus- versahs fascia; and then, passing to the outer edge of the rectus muscle and the conjoined tendons, it escapes through the external ring, and is here covered by the intercolumnar fascia, the superficial fascia, and the in- tegument. It is evident that the hernia can receive no covering (or at least a very partial one) from the cremaster muscle, nor from the fascia propria of obUque inguinal hernia,' as it does not descend through the inguinal canal. Sir A Cooper states that it receives a covering from the trausversahs tendon and fascia. By the former we con- sider him to mean an expansion from the trausversahs fascia where it is attached to the conjoined tendons. The epigastric artery, too, Ues to its outer side; hence we divide the stricture in this form of herma upioards and inwards As the hernia emerges from the external ring, it lies internal and a ]iitl^ posterior to the spermatic cord. Direct thus differs essentially from oblique inguinal hernia in its coverings, and in its relations to the epigastric artery and spei'matic cord. When the hernia has been formed suddenly, we are enabled to distinguish the two forms of inguinal hernia, bv the direct course backwards, which the direct species takes, into the abdomen. This, it should be recollected, will not always avail us; as, in old cases of obhque in- euinal hernia, the two rings will be in close apposition; and thus a hernia, formed originaUy by oblique descent,FEMORAL HERNIA. 539 will present the appearance of one by direct descent. As in the former, the epigastric artery is drawn down to the external ring along with the hernial tumour, it still retains its original relation to the neck of the sac, namely, to its internal side; hence, in all doubtful cases, we should divide the stricture directly upwards. If we examine the lower part of the parietes of the abdomen on their inner surface, by raising the intestines from the cavity of the pelvis, leading the peritoneum in situ, we shall there see two depressions or fossae on each side, which seem to invite, as it were, to the protrusion of a hernial tumour. Between these, three projecting cords may be noticed; one of these is situated on the mesial line, and is formed by the urachus, which ascends from the superior fundus of the bladder to the umbihcus; the remaining two are situated one on each side. They are formed by the degenerated umbilical arteries, which ascend from the lateral surfaces of the bladder, convergino- to the umbilicus. °' These depressions are named the internal and external mgumal fossce or pouches. The internal inguinal fossa hes between the urachus and the degenerated umbilical artery, the first of which separates it from its fellow of the opposite side. It is triangular in shape, the base interiorly being formed by the crest of the pubes. It lies opposite to the external ring, and thus leads to the formation of direct inguinal hernia. The external inguinal fossa lies to the outer side of the umbilical artery; it lies superior aud external to the other and is somewhat larger; it leads to the iyiternal ring and consequently to the formation of an oblique inguinal hernia. i?EJIORAL HERNIA. This form of hernia is more frequent in the female than lu the male, m consequence of the greater breadth of the pelvis in the former. Although less frequently met with than mgumal hernia, it is perhaps more the subiect of operation, ^ it is more liable to strangulation from the smal ness of the aperture through which it escapes from the abdomen, and the resistance of the structures which form the circumference of the opening • Femoral or, as it is sometimes named, crural hernia, isSUKGERY. 540 SO called from its making its appearance, when first noticed, in tlie thigh; in the upper, inner, and anterior part of which region it descends, beneath Poupart's liga- ment, to the inner side of the femoral vessels. To expose the anatomy of fennoral hernia, raise the integuments from the anterior surface to the upper third of the thigh. On doing so, we bring into view the superficial fascia. This is the common subcutaneous cellular tissue met with in every part of the body beneath the integuments: it is here well marked, and is frequently loaded with fat. On all sides it is continuous with the surrounding cellular tissue. Externally a few transverse fibres may be occa- sionally met with in it. It forms the most superficial covering of a femoral hernia, next to the common in- tegument. In the superficial fascia we notice several artenes, veins, nerves, and lymphatic glands. The artenes are branches of the external circumflexa ilii, external pudic and superficial epigastric arteries: they arise from the femoral artery a little below Poupart's ligament, perforate the cribriform fascia, and are lost in the superficial fascia and integuments. The external circumflexa ilii branches pass outwards behind the ilium; the external pudic to the organs of generation; whilst the superficial epigastric ascends inwards over Poupart's ligament, to be lost in the parietes of the abdomen. The external pudic and superficial epigastric are frequently wounded in the opera- tion for strangulated femoral hernia, and may require a ligature. . , The veins are branches from the surrounding integu- ments, and the great or internal saphena vein. This large vein commences at the inner side of the foot and leg, ascends along the internal surface of the thigh, curves outwards at its upper part, and, at about an inch and a half distance from Poupart's ligament, perforates the cribriform fascia, through the saphenous opening, to join the femoral vein. In some cases a second large vein ascends along the anterior surface of the thigh, which either terminates in the saphena or in the femoral vein. In operating for stran- gulated femoral hernia, as well as in other operations mFEMORAL HERNIA. 541 this region, the saphena vein is much exposed. It may be avoided by not prolonging our incisions too much inwards. Not unfrequently it becomes varicose, aud may be mistaken for a femoral hernia. The nerves met with in the superficial fascia are small branches derived principaUy from the genito-crural aud anterior-crural. The hjmphatic glands compose the inferior set of in guinal glands They are arranged iu the vertical direction and consist of two sets, a superficial and deep. The mper ficial are three or four in number, and are inclosed ia a capsule of the superficial fascia. The deep are two or three in number: they accompany the femoral vessels- one is almost constantly lodged in the femoral ring Enlargement of these may be mistaken for a femoral bernia, and, from their relation to the femoral artery for an aneurism of this vessel. Dissect off the superficial fascia. This may be accom- phshed with ease, untU we arrive opposite the cribll^n fascia; here the two are so intimately connected, thatl IheXr "P"''' '^'"^ "^''^""^ on. or the other On put into view. On pursuing the dissection, the fascia lata is brought to view. This IS a dense layer of fibrous structure which invests the muscles of the thigh. Inferiorlv it\l attached to the tendons and Ugame^nts ajfut th^kne ! jomt; from this it ascends, forming sheaths for the dif- ferent muscles and sending in processes between them Having arrived at the upper and anterior part of the th.gh where it is connected with the anatomy of femoral hernia) It divides into three portions, the iul, pecUnlal and cribriform fascia. U'^^nneai, The iliac (so called from its connection with the os \\\\\ or external portion of the fascia lata, is the strnn posteriorly it is attached to the crest of tlie i ,^,m f we find it closely attached to thrSowe "ni r"Tj TvZ part's ligament. As we trace it inwardr^n^ i , ' pubes, it terminates in an elongated i^ocess ^ in front of the femoral vessefs, gets^ to tl li^ ^"'f' behind Poupar.sligau:L;;:ti::,t:^-^--^^542 SUEGERY. the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and are inserted with it into the ilio-pectineal line. The superior edge of this prolonged portion of the fascia lata is attached to Poupart's ligament; its inferior margin is free and concave, the concavity looking downwards and inwards: this portion of it is named Hey's ligament, or the falciform j^rocess of the fascia lata. A short distance below Hey's'ligament, the ihac portion of the fascia lata is gradually prolonged into the cribri- form fascia, but not unfrequently presents, in the dis- sected state, a well-defined edge at the outer side of the femoral artery. Still more inferiorly, the ihac portion of the fascia lata becomes continuous with the pectineal por- tion in front of the femoral vessels; they here, conjoined, form a well-defined semilunar margin, the concavity of which is turned upwards, and forms Burns-s ligammt. This margin of the fascia lata, on a careful examination, will be found to be reflexed backwards on the anterior surface of the femoral vessels, and so intimately united with the sheath, as to prevent altogether the descent of a hernia beneath it. ■ e e ■ The pectineal or pubic or internal portion of the tascia lata lies in front of the pectineus muscle. Internally, li is attached to the symphysis pubis, where it covers the gracilis and adductor muscles; as we trace it outwalks it passes in front of the pectineus muscle, gets behind the femoral vessels, at the outer edge of which it meets with the tendons of the psoas magnus and iliacus iiiternus muscles; it here divides into two laminse, one of which passes forwards, to be attached to the posterior ^ur ace of the external or iliac portion of the fascia lata whilst the other passes backwards to be attached to the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. • a. ^ «f fh« Superiorly, the pectineal fascia ascends m front ot the pectineus muscle, to be inserted into the il.o-pec meal line, where it becomes continuous with the fascia ihaca, and with Gimbernat's ligament. Infenorly, it becomes continuous with the iliac portion of the fascia lata, to form Burns's ligament. , Femoral hernia, as it descends, rests on the pectineal fascia Between these two portions of the fascia lata, and immediately in front of the femoral vessels, an oval-shapedFEMORAL HERNIA. 543 space exists, which is covered over by a thin layer of cel- lular substance, named the cnhriform fascia or middle portion of the fascia lata. This is in general described as a process of the fascia lata, with which indeed it is per- fectly continuous at the circumference of the opening; at the same time it is so intimately connected with the super- ficial fascia, being in fact identified with it, that it may be with equal propriety described as being derived from this fascia. The cribriform fascia is in density intermediate between the fascia lata and the superficial fascia. The cribriform fascia exhibits, as its name implies, a number of foramina, which transmit numerous veins and nerves, passing between the superficial and deeper parts One, larger than the rest, is formed by the saphena vein dipping m, to join the femoral; this is the saphenous opening; through it a femoral hernia most frequently passes forwards beneath the superficial fascia: it is bounded mfenorly by Burns's ligament. From the little resistance the cribriform fascia afi^ords, a femoral hernia soon makes Its way through it; this it effects either by bursting throu<>h the fascia, or dilating one of the openings in it, most frequently the saphenous. Having thus examined the parts on the anterior surface ot the thigh, we next proceed to ascertain by what means a hernia is enabled to escape from the cavity of the ab domen, so as to descend behind the fascia lata. For this purpose we draw the peritoneum and viscera out of the iliac fossae, and examine the parts which descend beneath i;oupart s hgament. As this ligament stretches across tne bnm of the pelvis, between the anterior superior soi nous process of the iUum and the tubercle of the pubes' It leaves a large space (the crural arch) between it and tUe bone, by means of which several structures are trans mitted from the pelvis to the thigh, or in the 0000^: direction. Thus, between the spines'of the ilium T m guino-cutaneous nerve descends; internal to this thJ psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles, and between them the anterior crural nerve, descend in a deep W st.ll more internally, the femoral vessels pass fh' inner side of these the absorbent vessels f om the fo^fe544 SUllGEUY. So many parts thus passing beneath Poupart's hga- nient, nearly obliterate the space between it and the bone, so that the descent of a femoral hernia is, by these means, at least partially prevented. As, however, many mter- stices must exist between these parts, it becomes neces- sary that some additional structure should exist, in order to preserve the integrity of the abdommal cavity, ihis structure does exist, and is formed by the junction of the transversalis fascia and the fascia iliaca behind Poupart s ^^^ThT%scia transversalis descends from the inguinal canal, passes backwards, and, behind Poupart's ligament, meets with the fascia iliaca. , . , . . This is a dense layer of fascia, which invests the ante- rior surface of the ihacus internus muscle; extermlly and superiorly, it is firmly attached to the mner hp of the crest of the ilium. Tracing it inwards, it covers the muscle, passes behind the external iUac vessels, sending off at the same time an expansion, which passes m front ot these vessels, binds them down, and forms the fascia pro- pria or sheath of the external iliac artery, fh-st described by Mr. Abernethy. At the inner side of the ihac vessels the fascia iUaca becomes attached to the iho-pectmeal line whence it descends into the pelvis, under the name of the nelvic fascia. Near the pubes the fascia ihaca becomes LtSnuou with the pectineal portion of the fasca lata, and albernat's ligament. Inferiorly or towai-c^ the fernoi. region, the fascia iliaca curves forwards, and meets the raTs;;rsahs fascia immediately behind Poupart Ui^^^^^^^ where the two fasciae, united, form a dense -l»tis n- dinoas line, which, indicating the course «f ^^^^ "^^^ circumflexa ilii vessels, extemls from the spine of 1. ilmm to the outer edge of the femoral 'artery and thus precludes the possibility of a hernial tumour descendmg between these points. , i.- •„ *^„,,. At the o»^«- side of the femoral artery the tasc.a rau-s- versalis and the fascia iliaca separate; the tascia trau.- ; salis descends into the thigh in front / - femm^ vessels, whilst the fascia iliaca descends behind them tl us inclosing these vessels in a distinct weU-marked sheat . This-the sheath of the femoral vessels, of a t mnci- shape, with the base superiorly, the apex inler.orly-isFEMOEAL HERNIA. 545 graduaUy lost in the cellular coverings of the femoral vessels in the thigh. The femoral artery and vein are not in close contact whilst contained in the sheath, but are separated by a septum or partition, which passes from its anterior to its posterior wall; and which, thus opposing the separa- tion of these walls, prevents the descent of a hernia between the femoral vessels and the fascia transversalis or anterior waU of the femoral sheath. In addition to tnis, tlie fascia transversalis is connected by cellular tissue to the cellular covering of the vessels, so as to assist materially in preventing the descent of a hernia in tnis direction. .fS'^A ''^^ ^^'^"''^1 ^^ssels, we have just liTl ^^ fPf^""' tlie transmission of the absorbent vessels from the lower extremity. Here the fXTan^T^'M^' tumour are but makefil ^''''^'''^r ^ hernia first makes its way from the cavity of the abdomen. This S f^^^^^^^^ ^^-"Id be atten. tively studied. It is as yet concealed from view bv a delicate layer of ceUular tissue, which may be descrTbed as ?de o?rf" 1 f-cia transversalis, on the inn r Bide of the femoral vessels. This forms the fascia propria throrrtl r"' r^""*^' ^ ^^^^^^ pr^^^ding through the femoral ring, carries the fascia befbre it and thus receives from it an immediate investment, or a fascia thin and dehcate yet in old cases of hernia it becomes PpeaTa^ce' In"''"^"'' " ^^^^"^ ^ membranou appearance. In some cases it may be burst throu-h so ligament ,nd the reflexed po,r*of tl,{f 1 ■p'"^""P"'' of the fascia lata; S.faw/by the °™ pnbes, corered bv the Devlin. ,.„?, °f Lei., »ferW//hV thrf^o 1 " Gi.he.„at. hga4J. . ,ul"'rjS r^lrtT^ta^I546 SURGER'X. the epigastric artery curves to its outer side. In it, we frequently meet with a lymphatic gland. Here, then, is the unprotected part of the abdomen, through which a femoral hernia descends into the thigh. As the hernia escapes through the ring, it pushes before it the peritoneum, wliich forms the hernial sac, as also the fascia propria, which, together with the lymphatic gland in the ring, affords but a feeble resistance; the latter is soon pushed aside, the former becomes one of the cover- ings of the hernia, which, descending into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, rests on the pectineal fascia, behind the falciform process of the fascia lata. It soon arrives opposite the cribriform fascia. Its further descent is prevented by the convexity of the saphena vein, by the attachment of Burns's ligament to the front of the femoral vessels, and by the motions of the thigh on the pelvis. Meeting with little resistance from the cribriform fascia, it changes its course, turns forwards, bursting through the fascia, or dilating one of the apertures in it, most fre- quently the saphenous opening, and hes beneath the superficial fascia. It soon changes its course a second time; it now turns upwards, ascends over Poupart s ligament, and finally rests, above this ligament, on Scarpa's fascia of inguinal hernia, which alone separates it from the tendon of the external obhque muscle. It is here then covered by the integument, superficial fascia, fascia propria, (alias fascia transversalis, alias septum crurale of Cloquet,) and hernial sac. Some authors multiply the coverings of femoral hernia, describing at least sLx from without inwards, viz., commo7i integument, superficial fascia, cribriform fascia, femoral sheath, septum crurale, 2iQ.di peritoneum. Sir A. Cooper states that a femoral hernia descends in the crural sheath, or sheath of the femoral vessels, ihis is a point of dispute that can alone be settled when the extent of the crural sheath is decided. Most assuredly it does not descend in that part of the sheath which contains the femoral vessels (and which should be alone ca led tlie crural sheath), as a distinct septum always exists between the hernia and the femoral vein. j j • We have stated that the femoral ring is bounded in- ternally by Gimbernat's ligament. This is the third in-547 FEMOEAL HERNIA. sertion of Poupart's ligament, from the pubic extremity of which it extends obhquely inwards and backwards, to be inserted into the ileo-pectineal line: it is triangular in shape, the apex turned inwards towards the pubes; its base, directed outwards, is semilunar, and forms the inner boundary of the femoral ring; one edge is turned for- wards, and is attached to Poupart's ligament; the other is directed backwards and inwards, and is implanted into the ileo-pectineal line. Gimbernat's ligament is of use in preventing the descent of a femoral hernia on the inner side of the femoral ring. It is generally considered to be the seat of stricture in strangulated femoral hernia. The femoral ring possesses in many subjects a relation which should not be overlooked; viz., to the obturator artery. This vessel in general arises from the internal Iliac artery. Where this is the case, it can have no relation to a femoral hernia; but in numerous instances it will be found to arise from the internal epigastric, close to the origin of this vessel from the external iliac artery. Now, as Its ultimate distribution is to the parts in the neighbourhood of the obturator foramen, it necessarily follows, when such is its origin, that, in order to arrive at this foramen, it must cross the femoral ring, and con- sequently a femoral hernia, if such should exist. As it proceeds to the foramen, it may either pass directly to it along the oiiter side of the neck of the hernia; or it may first pass along its posterior surface, and then enter the foramen; or it may wind along the anterior surface of the neck of the sac, and then descend to its inner side. For- tunately this last course is the least frequent of the three (occurring, according to Mr. Lawrence, but once in a huudred operations,) for when the artery is so related to a femoral hernia, it is exceedingly difficult to avoid it. should we be called on to operate, particularly if the operator should prefer the division of Gimbernat's liea! ment for the relief of the stricture. ^ There is no point perhaps connected with femoral hernia respecting which surgeons are more a varTance than as to what forms the stricture in tirdiseale when strangulated. We have Gimbernat, Hey, and Burns eacE contendmg that his ligament is the offender so th;t the practitioner is left completely in doubt as to 'the tit seaSUllGEllY. 548 of coustriction. Sir A. Cooper asserts that the stricture is seated in the "crural arch," and recommends the incision for its division to be directed upwards and in- wards, thus dividing a part of the crural arch or Poupart's ligament. OPERATION FOB, STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. The remedies for the relief of strangulated femoral hernia do not differ from those made use of in inguinal or any other species of hernia; they are, the taxis, chloroform, bleeding, tobacco enema, the warm bath, cold appUcations &c. It is necessary, however, that these remedies should be had recourse to without delay, as this form of hernia, when strangulated, more rapidly hastens to a fatal ter- mination than any other. Sir A. Cooper has met with one case in which death took place in seventeen hours after the commencement of the strangulation, and other writers record similar instances. When making use of the taxis, two circumstances are to be particularly attended to, namely, the position of the patient, and the direction in which we press the tumour. •The patient should be placed in the semi-recumbeut posture, and the thigh flexed on the abdomen and rotated inwards; thus Poupart's ligament wiU be completely re- laxed, so as to facilitate considerably the reduction ot tlie ^%he next thing to be attended to is the direction which the hernia has taken from the abdomen We should recollect that, as it rests on the external obhque muscle above Poupart's ligament, the fundus of the hernia lies directly in front of its neck; we should therefore hi. draw the tumour downwards until we have brought it opposite the cribriform fascia, then press it backwards through this, and then upwards through the femoral ring Should we, forgetting the course of the hernia, press it ai first either backwards or upwards, our efforts will be in- effectual and highly injurious, if not fatal, to the patient, as it is possible that the intestine may be ruptured by such ""'It"cannot be too firmly impressed on the mind of the practitioner that many diseases may be confounded with a femoral hernia, and that a correct diagnosis should Dc549 STRANGULATED FEMOKAL HERNIA. made before proceeding to the operation. Thus, for instance, A varicose state of the saphena and femoral veins, near to Poupart's ligament, has been confounded with a femoral hernia. We can easily distinguish between them in the following manner. Place the patient in the recumbent posture, reduce the tumour, make pressure on the femoral ring ; if it be a hernia, the tumour will not reappear; if it be a varicose state of the vein, the pressure will rather increase it. Again, if the pressure be applied beneath, the tumour will reappear on the patient's standing up It It be a hernia, but not so if it be a varicose state of the veins. ^ Enlargement of the inferior set of inguinal glands may oe confounded with a femoral hernia. In some cases we can recognise the glands by their circumscribed shape • the absence of any neck to the tumour leading into the femoral nug, and their greater solidity; in others, on the contrary, it is impossible to ascertain the true nature of the disease m consequence of the small size of the tumour the fat condition of the patient, and the thickened state of the absorbents which pass through the femoral rin- and resemble the neck of the sac. In such cases, should the symptoms of strangulation continue unrelieved, the surcreon is justified in cutting down ou the tumour to ascertain its nature. We have known eminent surgeons to cut down on an enlarged gland in mistake for a femoral hernia. It should be borne in mind too that a hernia may be con cealed behmd an enlarged gland, which wiU add much to tlie ditfaculty of the diagnosis. Psoas abscess pointing beneath Poupart's ligament mav be mistaken for a femoral hernia. The two LZT.hZ many symptoms in common, viz., the situation of the amour, the impulse on coughing, their disappearance on the patient 8 assuming the recumbent posture^ They may be distinguished, whilst the patient is in this no.S relaxing the abdominal musLs, and aUern teTy ^^ with each hand on the iliac and femoral regions^ when Tf the disease be an abscess, the fluctuation of the malter wi 1 at once point it out. mauer wui An inguinal hernia too mav bp f>r.r,e i i repeal, we di..i„g„i3h betC^ t^'^tm^550 SURGERY. Poupart's ligament to them. In inguinal hernia, if -we draw up the tumour, Poupart's ligament maybe in general distinctly traced with the fingers from the ilium to the pubes ; but, on the contrary if we draw it downwards on the thigh, the hernia is felt crossing the ligament. If the disease be femoral, the elevation of the tumour will cause it to cross Poupart's ligament; its depression will leave the ligament fi'ee. Having satisfied ourselves that the disease is strangulated femoral hernia, and that the operation is indispensable, we proceed to its performance. Place the patient in the horizontal posture on a table of convenient height, with his legs hanging over its edge, and his shoulders a little elevated. Make the first incision along the tumour, in a nearly transverse direction, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, from the centre of this carry your second incision about two inches in length upwards toward the umbilicus, you will thus have made a wound of an inverted x shape, dividing the in- tegument, and bringing into view the superficial fascia. In this the external pudic and superficial epigastric arteries may be divided; if the haemorrhage be troublesome, they should be secured with the ligature. Take care to avoid the saphena vein, •which lies a short distance beneath your transverse incision. The operation above described is the proceeding of Sir A. Cooper, but is not uniformly adopted by surgeons. Some make an incision parallel with, and just below, Poupart's ligament, over the tumour; some make a semilunar incision; others pinch up the skin over the hernia, and slit it up in the direction of the tumour, and divide layer after layer cautiously. Next proceed to divide the coverings of the hernial tumour, viz., superficial fascia, fascia propria, and hernial sac, in the cautious manner recommended when speaking of inguinal hernia. The contents of the sac having been exposed, you proceed to ascer- tain with the little finger the seat of stricture; this is at the femoral ring, but at what part ? This is a question extremely diflacult to decide upon. Sir A. Cooper directs us to cut upwards, forwards, and inwards, taking care to draw the spermatic cord out of the way if we operate on the male subject. Mr. Colles advises the division of the " pectineal attachment of the fascia lata." Gimbernat advocates the division of the base of the third insertion of Poupart's ligament, and this we may say is the operation preferred at the present day. It is accomplished by drawing the intestine outwards, and intro- ducing the probe-pointed bistoury on a director, (if that can be accomplished, if not on the finger,) and then cutting directly inwards through the liase of Girabernat's ligament. The stricture being divided, the hernia is to be returned, which may be accom-STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. 551 plished without difficulty if no stricture exist in the neck of the sac. If this should be the case, it must be divided, and thus the hernia reduced. The principal objection to this method of operating arises from the risk of wounding in its performance the obturator artery, when it arises from the epigastric, and crosses the front and inner side of the hernial sac. This variety in the course of the artery is so very rare as to constitute no solid objection to the practice; indeed the artery may be avoided even when it takes this course, by making use of a bistoury resembling Sir A. Cooper's blunt-pointed bistoury, but differing from it in having a cutting edge of only three or four lines in extent. By this means the ligament can alone be cut; a very slight incision being sufficient for our purpose. The cutting of the ligament is at once ascertained by the operator by the peculiar feel it communicates to his hand. The plan recommended by Sir A. Cooper, of cutting the stricture upwards, forwards, and inwards, exposes the spermatic cord, and consequently the spermatic artery, to injury in the male subject. By dividing Poupart's liga- ment, it also weakens the lower part of the abdomen. It is true that the vast experience of this eminent surgeon gives to any recommendation from him an authority which should be opposed with diffidence; yet we must recollect that this very experience enabled him to perform operations with safety, that might in less skilful hands be attended with considerable difficulty and danger. Hence surgeons prefer the operation recommended by Gimbernat; and this, there can be no question if properly performed, will be sufficient, as by it we enlarge the femoral ring, which is all that is requisite to the reduction of the hernia. On no account should we cut upwards and outwards as the epigastric artery and femoral vein lie in this direction. It has been proposed of late years to divide the stricture external to the hernial sac, and then to return the whole mto the abdomen. Such a proceeding is impossible, as the sac contracts adhesions immediately after its descent to the surrounding parts; and even were it possible, it is highly objectionable, as it frequently occurs tha^ the stricture is situated m the neck of the sac, or it may be inSURGERY, h52 its interior, and thus the hernia will be returned without the strangulation having been removed. UMBILICAL HERNIA, OR EXOMPHALOS. This species of hernia is but rarely seen in the adult; it is, however, of frequent occurrence in children soon after birth, in consequence of the cries of the child, and the open state of the umbilicus. It then protrudes through this aperture formed by the umbilical cord, to the distance of an inch or more, and may be distinctly recognised through its coverings. The disease, in adults termed umbilical hernia, is in the great majority of cases a ventral hernia, as it protrudes not through the umbilicus but above or below it, through the linea alba, which here, from the divergence of the recti muscles, presents a less degree of resistance than beneath the umbilicus. In corroboration of this state- ment, the umbilicus, in almost all cases of umbihcal hernia in adults, may be seen on one or other of the surfaces of the tumour, which is not the case in the true umbilical hernia. . Occasionally umbilical hernia may present itself in the adult, but this occurs only in cases where, from the pro- trusion of a hernia in infancy, or from other causes the umbilical opening has lost that tendency to contract which it possesses after birth; once closed, this opening becomes the least yielding portion of the abdominal parietes. ^\ hen it occurs in men, it is usually dependent upon corpulency, and is not rare in women from pregnancy. The anatomy of umbilical hernia is simple. It is covered by the integuments, superficial fascia, and peri- toneum. The peritoneum, and sometimes the superficial fascia, become absorbed, so that the coverings of the hernia are exceedingly thin. Much care then wiU be required on the part of the surgeon when operating, nor to wound the intestine. Some have altogether denied the existence of a hernial sac in this form of hernia, but there can be no doubt of its existence, at least for a short time after the formation of the disease. When reducible, it should be at once returned, and re- tained in the abdomen by "means of one half of an ivory ball " or a piece of cork cut in this shape, "applied toVENTRAL HERNIA, 553 the umbilicus, and over this adhesive plaster and a belt, which should be supported by straps round the lower part of the belly." ^ When umbilical hernia becomes strangulated, the usual remedies for the relief of strangulated hernia should be resorted to. Of these the tobacco enema is the most eflectual, and should never be omitted, as it has a greater eaect in relaxing the muscles, and taking away the cause ot stricture, in this than in any other kind of hernia Should these remedies faU, the stricture must be di- vided; for this purpose an incision of an inverted T shape IS to be made over the tumour, the integument dis- sected off and the hernial coverings carefuUy divided. Ihe sac (if It exist) having been opened, the stricture is to be divided at the superior edge of the opening, in a direction upwards and a little to the left side, iS order that we may avoid the umbilical vein, which lies to the nght side, and the hernia be returned. The after treat ment is the same as that in use for other hernise. Some surgeons advocate the division of the stricture, and the reduction of the hernia, without opening the hernial sac VENTRAL HERNIA. ^ .J^'^ ^""T °^ ^^'■''^^ ""^y o^'^'i^ i° any region of the abdomen but most frequently appears i/the linea albl between he recti muscles, immediately above the umbih u^! tL nL ^Tf' semilunares, orTn the openings to be observed in the aponeurosis of the external obhque tendon. These apertures in the natid state give transmission to small pedicles of fat wS increasing m size may be mistaken for a hernial tumour Shou d they afterwards become absorbed, it i poS; that the hemia may protrude through one of the Zt.d from the proximity of hernial tumours to tbp n^KT cus, when they occur in the Hnea alb^ 11,2 5 confounded in the adult subject with Zkt ^fT""'^^ They may be in general distSluisS brtSe'll'T""' of the neck and body of the ventral f ^ ?^^^ ^^^^^ spherical in the nl^^L^^Z lo ZZ' ^^^"^ the umbilical cicatrix on onetdf ^f ItrS^r^^T^" The 24SURGEKY. 554 treatment of these tumours is similar to tbat recommended for umbilical hernia. Some other varieties of hernia are detailed in more voluminous works, but are extremely rare, and some of them are not recognisable during life, and, if so, not curable by medical art. These anomalous species are obturator, sciatic, perineal, and pudendal hernise. REDUCIBLE HEENIA. There is no period of hfe wholly exempt from hernia; it may occur in the infant, the adult, or the aged; it is, however, much more frequent at the first and last periods than at the second. Several circumstances conspire to render hernia, espe- cially the inguinal species, of frequent occurrence in the infant. Thus the open state of the inguinal or spermatic canal, which has just transmitted the testicle into the scrotum, the want of adhesion in the upper part of the tunica vaginahs, and the trifling degree of obliquity in the canal, which is at this period of very short extent indeed, favour the descent of a hernial tumour. In addition to these may be enumerated the want of development of the pelvic cavity, which as yet is not sufficiently capacious to receive the small intestines, which thus are lodged m the abdomen, and are therefore the more directly under the influence of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm so fre- quently called into exercise in the infant. At this period of life too, the pelvis descends almost verticaUy from the spinal' column, so that its superior opening looks almost directly forwards. Thus the viscera want the support of the brim of the pelvis inferiorly, and ar^protruded against the abdominal parietes, which frequently give way. In the adult this combination of circumstances no longer exists: the spermatic canal becomes elongated, by the spreading outwards of the crests of the ilia ; the tunica vaginalis is closed superiorly; the pelvis has become sut- ficiently developed for the reception of the mtestmes and its anterior brim, from its great increase in size, and tlie peculiar rotation which the pelvis is known to undergo as the individual advances to maturity, receives the impulse com- municated to the intestines from above by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Here too the panetes of theREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 555 abdomen possess that degree of strength and inte-rity which IS wanting in either the infant or old subject. ° If the adult be by nature so perfectly protected from the occurrence of a hernia, he is more likely to indulge m violent exertions, which frequently produce the disease' than the youthful or aged; he is more exposed to acci- dents: and thus herniee are occasionally met with in the otherwise healthy adult. On attentively considering these circumstances, it becomes evident thkt a hernia in the middle aged is more likely to be produced by violence than by a gradual yielding of the abdominal parietes, and therefore will be much more in danger of strangulation. Ihe female adult has an additional cause for the formation of a hernial tumour in the occasionaUy impregnated uterus, which forces the intestmes upwards out of the pelvis en- croaching itself on the abdominal cavity, and by its'pro- KTZ ^''''''T r^^""'"' ^ y^^^^^S °f the parietes of the abdomen, which is too favorable to the future occur- rence or hernia. tn "''^ subject (second chUdhood) the predisposition .1 of hernia becomes re-estabUshed, but from other causes. At this period of life corpulenc; too often exists, the omentum becomes loaded with fat knd n J.rr?''.T ^"'"'^ i'^t^'^der from their natural retreat to seek an asylum in the scrotum or else- where Now also, the abdominal parietes begin to yie d the abdominal rings give way to the frequent impulse of the viscera forced against them by the contraction of the surrounding muscles, so often excited by the many dis eases^of the thoracic and pelvic viscera'to which [ge is But, as human nature is subject to few griefs without some compensating joys, the dilatation of^he rfngs so produced renders hernia, at this period of life nl?^ i much less Ukely to become strangulated but' T T^^ acute in its symptoms when constricS. ' Other causes of hernia hesiflpo fV.„„ casionally exist: these aie' a conrpni. ? '^'''^'oued, oc- formatioi the grow h of \ul ,^1^^^' wonnds of the abdominal pSes Hernia, it has been rpmirL-ori with on right ..wnra^s:?.?"-':-!™:556 srEGEHY. counted for by the greater use that is made of the right side of the body, and also by the obUque descent of the diaphragm from left to right, caused by the presence of the liver in the rigbt hypochondriac region. THE TEEATMENT OF EEDUCIBLE HEENIA consists in removing the causes, if possible; and where this cannot be effected, to keep the viscera in situ by the application of a truss, or by other means. The general symptoms of a reducible hernia are an indolent tumour in some of the regions of the abdomen mentioned, the absence of any discoloration of the integu- ments, the appearance of the tumour in the erect, its dis- appearance in the recumbent posture, the impulse commu- nicated to it by coughing, and its increase in size at the same time, its diminution when compressed, and occasion- ally some colicky pains in the abdomen. When the tumour is composed of intestine only, it may be distinguished from an omental hernia by the irregular unequal doughy feel of the latter, as also by its greater indolence and compressibiUty. If in the scrotum the omental hernia is more oblong and less round than the intestinal, its weight is also greater. When the disease is an entero-epiplocele, that is, corn- nosed of both intestine and omentum, the diagnosis is more obscure. Indeed, in most cases the best experienced surgeons find it exceedingly difficult, if not impossible to distinguish the contents of a hernial tumour, nor is it ^matter of any great importance, as equally acute symp- toms may be induced by an omental as by an mtestiual hernia The return of an intestinal hernia is frequenUy, but not always, attended with a pecuUar gurgling noise When the hernia is reducible, it shou d be at once returned into the abdomen, and retained there ^y means of a truss. The manipulation necessary for its reduct on is termed the taxis. In all attempts at reduction, the patient should be placed in such a position as will mos ^ficctually relax the parts tl^^ough which the hernia ha. descended, and this then returned gradually, that is, the portion of intestine that has last descended should be first returned, kept so by means of gentle pressure on he p2 and 80 on untU the whole tumout disappears; whenIRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 557 reduced, the pad of the truss should be applied over the opening through which the intestine has escaped from the abdomen. For example, in oblique inguinal hernia, it should be placed on the internal and not on the external ring. If placed over the external ring, the hernia will be still contained in the inguinal canal, where it is extremely liable to become strangulated, and the pad of the truss, when applied here, may injure the spermatic cord. By a perseverance in the constant use of the truss, we have reason to expect a perfect cure of the disease from the pressure causing an obliteration of the hernial sac, and the contraction which takes place in the internal ring; thus, the viscera are prevented from descending through It. In the young subject, as just explained, other circumstances assist in the removal of the disease When the truss has been worn for some time, there is still greater danger of a strangulation ensuing, should it be laid aside and the hernia descend, than previous to Its first adoption : this arises from the partially contracted state of the opening, and the thickened state of the pentoneum, induced by the pressure of the pad. Hernia can in general be easily reduced in infants, as the inguinal canal is short, and possesses but Uttle obHquity; it is sel- dom strangulated, yet Mr. Pott states he has seen an infant of a year old, die of a strangulated hernia. In congenital hernia, where the testis has not as vet descended. Sir A. Cooper recommends the truss not to be applied untU after the testis has descended into the scrotum. It frequently happens that, from a thickened state of the omentum or mesentery, from adhesions to the hernial sac, or from other causes, a hernia cannot be returned • it then becomes an "'"cu, u IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. There are three states or conditions in which an irre- ducible hernial tumour may be found; thus it r^av be either simply vreductble, incarcerated, or strangulS Stmply u-redu^^^^^^^ Hernia is that form o/Zlt^s. which, although It cannot be reduced, is no attended with any serious symptoms. nuenueu The patient should in this case wear a bag-truss, whichSURGERY. 5S8 will have the effect of supporting the tumour, and oppo- sing the protrusion of any more of the viscera. Where the hernia is composed of omentum only, moderate pres- sure may be tried, as it has been found to cause an absorp- tion of the protruded omentum and the gradual return of the hernial sac into the abdomen. It is evident that great care will be required in the use of the pressure, as otherwise it might be applied where an intestine forms part of the tumour, or it may bring on an inflammation of the omentum, and thus induce general peritonitis. In some cases where the hernia is large and of long standing, the abdominal cavity has become con- tracted, or a deposit of fat has taken place in its interior, which will materially oppose the reduction of the hernial tumour. Here, if our patient be very anxious to get rid of the disease, the moderate use of opening medicines, bloodletting, and a strict regimen, may give rise to an absorption of the adipose matter, so as to produce a di- minution in the size of the hernial tumour, and afi'ord room in the abdomen for its return, which will contribute much to the facility of the reduction of the hernia. Mr. Hey several times succeeded in this way. Sir A. Cooper recommends the repeated apphcation of cold to the tumour, which he has found beneficial, by causing a diminution in its bulk, thus conducing to its final reduction. INCARCERATED HERNIA. In this form of the disease the hernial tumour is so constricted as to interfere, to a moderate extent, with the functions of the intestines. It rarely occurs, except in cases of old irreducible hernia, and is most frequently produced by a collection of feculent matter, or of air in the cavity of the intestines. It may be also caused by an increased deposit of fatty matter in the protruded omentum pressing on the in- testines, or from an additional portion of intestine or omentum having been forced into the hernial sac. Incarceration is a condition of the hernial tumour which requires immediate attention, as, if allowed to con- tinue in this state for any lengtli of time, more acute symptoms will at last snp'ervene, and thus the patientSTRANGULATED HERNIA. 559 ■will be obliged to submit to an operation for its removal. Nor can we expect otherwise. The constriction of the intestine produces inflammation of the parts protruded; they become swollen, and thus increase the constriction; the inflammation spreads to the interior of the abdomen, and all the symptoms of strangulated hernia set in. The treatment of this form of hernia consists in the judicious use of opening medicine, the administration of enemata, and the use of warm or cold applications to the tumour. The former of these act by relaxing the tension of the parts, the latter by condensing the air in the in- terior of the intestine. More active remedies can seldom be resorted to, as the patient is in general advanced in life. Nor are indeed the symptoms suflBciently acute to demand or to be benefited by bleeding or other violent remedies. STRANGULATED HERNIA. A hernia is said to become strangulated, wheu it is not only irreducible, but when it is so much constricted, that the circulation in the intestine or omentum is either im- peded or wholly prevented. Sir A. Cooper asserts that some portion of blood is still capable of being carried to the part by the arteries, but it cannot be returned by the veins. The symiptoms of a strangulated hernia commence with an abnormal tumour, with pain, increased on pressure, fol- lowed by a sense of dragging and pain about the region of the diaphragm, as if a cord were bound tightly round the upper part of the stomach. This is soon followed by eructation of air from the stomach and intestines. The patient is next troubled with vomiting. At first the contents of the stomach are evacuated, afterwards dark greenish bile; and, finally, if the stricture be on the lar^e intestine, faecal matter, which constitutes stercoraceoSs vomiting. Soon after the commencement of the strangulation the abdmneu becomes distended with air collected in the SVn /"^'fP'^i^f"!: the pulse is hard frequent, and incompressible. As the disease ad- vances, colicky pains appear throughout the abdomen. These are at first transient, but soon increase in strength560 SURGERY. and frequency until they are at length followed by a fixed pain. There is generally obstinate constipation, but faeces may be voided in small quantity when the omentum only is strangulated. The abdomen now becomes not only tense, but tender to the touch; the patient lies on his back with his limbs drawn up, and his head supported, that he may relax the abdominal muscles; the bowels are still constipated, the vomiting and eructation continue; the pulse becomes hard, frequent, and wiry, and the patient is covered with a cold perspiration. The tumour now becomes very tense and hard, in general a little inflamed on the surface of the skin, and tender to the touch. In this stage the most active treatment becomes ne- cessary. Chloroform, the warm bath, heated from 95 to 100 degrees, bleeding ad deliquium, purgatives, emollient enemata, opiates, cold applications to the tumour, and the tobacco enema, should be had recourse to, if the case will admit of sufficient delay for their adoption. In the selection of these various remedies, the practi- tioner must be guided by the peculiarities of the case, as treatment which will be of much benefit in one may be fatal to another. Thus, if the patient be young and plethoric, and the strangulation acute, bleeding and the warm bath, used for ten or fifteen minutes, so as to induce fainting, will be of much service in relaxing the tension of the parts, and in controlling the peritoneal inflam- mation ; whereas, in the old subject, and in chronic strangulation, their adoption may sink the vital powers, and lead to a fatal termination. So it is with the tobacco enema. The use of purgatives is condemned by some, on the grounds that they will not rest on the stomach, and rather increase the irritability of this organ, yet they will be found useful in the chronic strangulation. Opiates are not often resorted to. The best form of cold application to the tumour is pounded ice contained in bladders, or, when this cannot be procured, a mixture of equal parts of nitre and muriate of ammonia, say ten ounces of the mixed salts to one pint of water. Ether allowed to evaporate on the surface of the tumour forms a good substitute for these remedies. Care must be taken that the cold561 STRANGULATED HERNIA. be not so applied as to freeze the scrotum, and bring on sloughins; The tobacco enema is not much used now, in conse- quence of the fatal effects which have appeared to result from its use. One scruple of tobacco infused in water, is sufficient for one injection. The tobacco smoke is more ti-oublesome in its application, and less certain in its effects. Advantage should be taken of the weak state of the patient induced by these several remedies, and the taxis trjed. What length of time may we safely expend in our attempts at reduction before we proceed to the operation ? To this question, perhaps the most important connected with hernia, no definite answer can be given. It depends altogether on the nature of the case, the form of hernia, the age, the constitution of the patient, and the urgency of the symptoms. Thus we can wait longer in the chronic than in the acute strangulation, in the old than in the young subject, in oblique inguinal than in direct inguinal or femoral hernia, and in eases of long standing. Larrev relates a case that proved fatal in two hours, whilst others have occurred where many days have passed over before the operation was performed, and yet with success. On this subject the words of Mr. Hey are invaluable • that eminent surgeon says : " I have now, at the time of writing this performed the operation thirty-five times, and have often had occasion to lament that I had performed it too late, but never that I had performed it too soon " After the operation some surgeons administer an enema to the patient, so as to bring on a discharge from the bowels and all symptoms of peritonitis combated by the antinhln' gistic treatment. ^ '*uupmo- Purgatives should not be administered for at least twentv- four hours, and are generally unnecessary: when employed castor 0.1 is perhaps the most suitable: after the operatfon Ihe's^stm ' tr-quS gailret Xat^lat. Allfc^tJms^^ a complete revolution; the patiL^^ff t;^;^;^^ he IS much better, that he has got rid of ^1 ?i1s pT.n, but 24 §562 SURGERY. a little examination will satisfy the practitioner that death is fast approaching. The pulse becomes weak, inter- mitting, and easily compressed; the abdomen becomes less tense and tender, the patient gulps the fluids from his stomach without any action of the abdominal muscles, and the skin is covered with a clammy perspiration. The tumour may be perhaps, by a little pressure, returned into the abdomen; it feels emphysematous; the bowels become relaxed, and hiccough supervenes. In this state but little can be done; the tumour should be cut into so as to give exit to its contents, and expedite the separation of the sloughs. The recovery of the patient is possible by the formation of an artificial anus. The appearance of hiccough in the advanced stage of strangulated hernia is a bad symptom ; it may, however, appear in the earhj stage, and yet the case terminate favorably. POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. On cutting into the abdomen of a patient that has died of strangulated hernia, a quantity of air immediately escapes from the peritoneal cavity; the intestines appear as if they had been tossed about in the abdomen; those above the stricture are much distended, whilst those below it are contracted. The surface of the peritoneum especially where it invests the intestines, is covered irregularly with a brownish-coloured tenacious lymph, which glues the viscera together. _ The pelvic cavity contains a quantity of brownish- coloured serum. The intestines, where the convolutions touch each other, "have a red line upon them. On removing the lymph which covers the intestines, they appear more vascular than is natural. When the hernial sac is cut into, a quantity of lymph is found m the sur- rounding cellular tissue, and if gangrene have taken place the parts will be emphysematous, and pit on pressure. A large quantity of serum will be found in the hermal sac, especially if intestine be present. The omentum is dark- coloured, and if gangrenous gives way to pressure, and emits a highly putrefactive odour. The intestine is covered with a layer of coagulated lymph. If gangrenous, small green spots will be seen upon it; it also yields to pressure.I 563 GONORRH(EA. Gonorrhoea is a discharge of purulent matter from the urethra of the male, the vagina, uymphae, &c. of the female, the consequence of a specific inflammation, in- duced by the contact of infectious matter. Gonorrhoea usually appears on the third or fourth day after the appli- cation of the gonorrhceal matter; it may, however, com- mence in a few hours, or not appear for some weeks after. The first symptom of gonorrhoea is, generally, an itching at tlie orifice of the urethra, and sometimes extending over the whole glans; sometimes its earliest symptom is the sensation of a few drops of urine being lodged in the ure- thra, or even a slight heat near the extremity of the ui-ethra. A little fulness of the hps of the urethra is next observable, the glans becomes swollen, and the discharo-e commences. The itching changes into pain, more par- ticularly at the time of voiding the urine. There is often no pain until some time after the appearance of the dis- charge, and other symptoms; and, in many gouorrhceas, there is hardly any pain, even when the discharge is very considerable. At other times, a great degree of soreness occurs long before any discharge appears. There is gene- rally a particular fulness in the penis, and more especially m the glans. The glans has a kind of transparency especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skm becomes distended, smooth, and red, resemblino- a npe cherry. The orifice of the urethra is, in many In- stances, excoriated. The surface of the glans itself is often in a semi-excoriated state, consequently very tender, and it secretes, as also the inner surface of the prepuce a kind of discharge. The stream of urine becomes smaller than usual, from the swollen state of the penis, and the spasmodic contraction of the urethra, and is generally scattered and broken as soon as it leaves the passage t5ome bleeding occasionaUy occurs from the urethra ' As the disease advances, the discharge increases in quantity, aud the scalding m passing urine becomes much aggrayated; the patient complains of a soreness and pain and uueasiness about the pelvis, scrotum and perineum! and the testes often become tender. The constitution now begins to sympathise, and general fever appears.SURGERY. 564 The discharge in gonorrhoea is first of a thin serous cha- racter, it then resembles mucus, and finally assumes a purulent character; it is of a greenish colour, has a pe- culiar disagreeable smell, and stains the linen of a green colour. It proceeds at first from the anterior part of the mucus membrane of the urethra, one inch and a half of which only is engaged in the inflammation; this soon spreads, so as to occupy the whole of the canal and engage the lacunse. The mucous membrane is not ulcerated, unless in the aggravated form of the disease, the discharge pro- ceeding from the surface of the membrane. Treatment of Gonorrhoea.—In the early stages of this disease, it is best to observe the antiphlogistic regimen: thus, purgative medicines, and those of a saline nature more particularly, should be administered, and the patient confined to the drinking of mucilaginous fiuids, such as linseed-tea, barley-water, weak gruel, &c.; all food of a stimulating nature should be avoided. When the more acute symptoms have subsided, the balsam of copaiba, cubebs, and liquor potassse will be found useful, as also the occasional use of opiates. Fomentations and leeches also will be found beneficial. The copaiba balsam often disagrees with the patient, producing nausea and purging, and in some constitutions general fever, attended with a peculiar eruption of the skin. In the advanced stages of gonorrhoea, astringent injections, such as those of the sulphate of zinc or copper, the acetate of lead, acetate of zinc, or corrosive sublimate may be used. Many surgeons object to the use of injections, on the grounds of their giving rise to stricture. Some have recommended treating gonorrhoea from tbe outset by means of strong irritating injections. For this purpose they have used the solution of nitrate of silver, gr. xx to .fj of water. This plan will occasionally succeed, but more frequently fails, and often adds much to the patient's sufferings: the practice is dangerous. Tlie internal use of mercury, as a specific m gonorrhoea, cannot be too strongly reprobated. In favor- able cases of gonorrhoea, the symptoms gradually subside, the discharge lessens in quantity and changes in colour, loosing its greenish tinge, and finally disappears. On the contrary, some unpleasant symptoms, in general, attend the disease: the principal of them are chordee, bubo,GONORKHffiA. 565 retention of urine, hernia humoralis, hgemorrhage, phi- mosis, and paraphimosis, stricture, &c. Chordee.—This is characterised by a curved state of the penis during erection, attended with great pain, and frequently a discharge of blood. It appears as one of the earliest attendants of gonorrhoea, and is caused by an effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, which prevents the regular distension of the part. It is treated with fomentations and leeches, applied externally, followed by the camphorated mercu- rial or belladonna ointment, or a mixture of them; opium being administered internally, combined with camphor. Bubo.—This is also an early symptom. In general a number of the glands in the groin become enlarged, the • absorbents leading to them being also increased in size and forming a thickened cord along the dorsum of the penis. It is smypathetic mid rarely siqjpurates. It is best treated with cold lotions, and leeches if the inflam- mation be severe, and careful rest. Retention of im?ie.~This occurs during the inflamma- tory stage of gonorrhcea, especially where much irrita- bihty of the neck of the bladder has been present, and the disease has been treated on the irritating plan. ' The symptoms are extremely acute, and there is much con- stitutional disturbance present. In some cases the patient is unable to pass any urine ; in others he gets rid of a few drops with much pain and suffering. The warm bath leeches to the perineum and above the pubes, bleedine from the arm if the patient be plethoric, and emollient enemata, followed by the use of anodynes, should be resorted to before the catheter is had recourse to • bv this treatment relief is almost invariably obtained Re'ten tion of urine from gonorrheal inflammation may prove tatal, trom the supervention of peritonitis Mcesses sometimes form along the" course of the urethra, or in perineo, in severe cases of gonorrhcea In the former, they seem to be caused bv inflnvT \- and then bursts into the urethra; in the lnHpr p ""^^ glands are generally affected: the;e m y b ^ f^^^^^^^ the urethra or in perineo, thus givin? ri.P Vn a « fi perineo. The cavfty of the absSsTfh^Sd be lairds"SURGEKY. 566 and the wound dressed from the bottom, a catheter being retained in the urethra, so as to prevent the urine passing through the opening in perineo, if the patient do not suffer too much from its presence. As these abscesses frequently cause retention of urine before bursting, an accurate ex- amination should be made whenever they are suspected to exist. Hernia humoralis {Testitis or Orchitis) appears in the advanced stages of gonorrhoea, when the discharge is rather of a gleety description, and is apparently about to disappear; but it sometimes comes on earlier if irritating injections be employed. It has been mu»h disputed whether this is a specific affection of the testes or a purely inflam- matory one. The latter opinion is that geuerally received, the disease being attributed to an extension of the inflam- mation from the urethra, along the vas deferens, to the testis. The disease usually commences with pain in the course of the vas deferens, and some swelling and tender- ness in the spermatic cord; obtuse pains soon appear in the epididymis and testis, followed by acute inflammation of these parts. The pain now becomes more severe, and constitutional symptoms supervene; and, on examination, the epididymis and testis are found much enlarged, par- ticularly the former, and are exceedingly tender to the touch ; the testis retains somewhat of its natural shape, being flattened at the sides, and is exceedingly hard and tense; the scrotum becomes red, and its temperature is increased. Only one gland is afi'ected at a time. There is pain in the course of the spermatic cord, extending to the lumber region, general febrile disturbance, with nausea or vomiting. The treatment consists in enjoining strict rest, and the supporting the testis: the application of leeches, or opening the veins of the scrotum; fomentations, emetics, and pur- gatives ; and, if the inflammation be very acute, the abstrac- tion of blood from the arm. Cupping on the loins is also serviceable. By this treatment the inflammation subsides in the course of a few days, but leaving some hardness of the testis and epididymis, which is long in disappearing. The use of camphorated mercurial ointment will expedite the removal of this symptom. The discharge from the urethra usually disappears as soon as the testis becomesGOXORRHCEA. 55/ affected, returning when the inflammation of the gland has subsided. Another plan of treatment attributed to Ricord, consists of surrounding the testicle tightly with strips of adhesive plaster. The application is very painful at first, but ceases to be so in a short time, and the swelling and pain speedily subside. The plasters require to be reapplied almost daily. The great advantage accruing from this treatment is, that in a few days the testicle acquires its normal size, instead of the irksome enlargement which follows the other plans. Should hernia humorahs be neglected, the inflammation of the gland proceeds to suppuration, and an abscess is the result; this, by degrees bursts on the anterior part of the scrotum, when the matter, mixed with semen, is dis- charged, as also a portion of the tubular, or secreting portion of the gland ; fungous granulations now form from the mtenor of the testis, and a tumour is the result, forming fungus or liporna of the testis. This fungus may be removed by the use of the actual or potential cautery, by excision ligature, or the strong solution of nitrate of silver Where the last-mentioned remedy is Hkely to succeed, it should be preferred; where it faUs, the nitric acid or chloride of antimony claims a preference over other appUcations As soon as the slough formed by these remedies separates healthy granulations appear, which, contracting, close the opening in the scrotum, when the case gets weU. The gland in these cases is generally destroyed. HcBmorrhage sometimes takes place during a gonorrhoea It IS seldom senous, and is often the forerunner of the entire disappearance of the disease. Should it be alarm ing a silver catheter may be introduced into the bladder and a roller bound tightly round the penis; in 4nS tt bSiTng."" °' •^^^^ ^•^ffi'^i-^ ^« -"rab G/ee^ is a discharge of a thick mucus, which remains for a length of time, sometimes for months, after tW ?..,? symptoms of gonorrhoea have subsided It in I \ depends on a relaxed condition of the ptts. ' The'r o stSTe."^"'""' '^^'^ ''''^ ba'thing will be found Fhymosu and Faraphynom are not unfrequently met568 SURGEllY. with in connection with the early stages of gonorrhoea; they will be described under the head of Venereal Disease. ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Stricture is an obstruction to the flow of urine through the urethra, caused by the spasmodic action of the muscles, or some alteration in the size of the canal, and is one of the most frequent, though remote, consequences of gonor- rhoea, seldom appearing till some years after this disease has disappeared. Its supervention to gonorrhoea has been attributed to the use of astringent injections rather than to the gonorrbceal inflammation; but this may be well questioned. Strictures occasionally form in individuals who have never had an attack of gonorrhoea; indeed, the most severe forms of the disease result from mechanical injury to the urethra, such as falls on the perineum, &c. Strictures have been divided into the permanent, spasmodic, and mixed. By jjemanew^ strictures are meant those de- pending upon a permanent alteration in the size of the canal, caused either by an efi"usion of lymph into the sub- mucous cellular tissue of the urethra, or on the surface of the . mucous membrane. Spasmodic stricture is that caused by the spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra. Mixed stricture is that in which the pro- minent form of the disease is attended with a spasmodic contraction of the surrounding muscles. Permanent stric- tures are divided into the packthread, bridle, and long continued: the packthread is that in which there is a cir- cular narrowing of the canal, as if a thread were tied tightly around it: the bridle stricture is when a band of lymph crosses the urethra; and the long continued that in which a considerable longitudinal extent of the canal is engaged, and may be either on one or other of its surfaces, or occupying its whole circumference. The most usual seat of stricture is about the bulb, but there is much difference of opinion as to its precise situation; some contend that it is most frequently met with in front of, others saybehmd, the bulb ; there is no part of the canal wholly exempt from the affection. At the London College, it is considered to be most frequent in the anterior portion of the membranous part of the urethra. . The earliest symptom of a stricture is the retention ot aSTRICTURE or THE URETHRA. 569 few drops of urine in the urethra after the patient has made water, which afterwards escape and wet the linen; while a further portion of urine is collected between the neck of the bladder and the stricture, and may be expelled by pressure on the lower surface of the urethra. This is soon followed by an irritable state of the bladder, the patient being frequently disturbed at night to pass water; the stream of urine becomes forked, spiral, or scattered, and, in a more advanced stage, the water is only voided in drops; there is, in general, a gleety discharge from the urethra, and uneasiness about the perineum and lower part of the rectum, &c. When the stricture has existed for some time, the con- stitution begins to participate in the affection: a species of low fever setting in, marked by an accelerated pulse, impaired appetite, thirst, disturbed rest, and a peculiar degree of general irritability. As the disease advances, the fever assumes much of the character of an intermittent attack, being attended with occasional shiverings, followed by profuse sweatings. This may be distinguished from an intermittent by the irregularity of the attacks and the pro- fuse nature of the sweatings. When the above symptoms are present the urethra should be examined with a soft wax bougie, that the precise situation of the stricture, its size, shape, &c. may be ascertained. This having been done the cure is proceeded with by means of bougies or catheters, gradually adapted to the state of the canal, one of these being passed at intervals of two or three days, until the stricture is removed by the mechanical pressure of the instrument, and the increased action of the absorbents excited thereby. In few cases can the instrument be passed more frequently, as its use is likely to be followed, partir cularly in irritable persons, by an attack of fever, such as we have just described, and generally known by the name o{ stricture fever. In this way, it is generally some weeks or months before the stricture is removed. At the same time that the bougie is 4)eing used, the constitutional symptoms should be attended to, and opiates and other medicines administered as they may be required. After the removal of the stricture, the patient should be directed to have a bougie passed occasionally, to prevent the return of the disease. In passing a bougie or other instrument,SURGERY. 570 into the urethi-a, the instrument is sometimes grasped by the spasmodic action of the muscles which surround the canal here ; the instrument should be allowed to remain until the muscles have fatigued themselves, when it may be passed without difficulty. In obstinate cases of stricture, the catgut bougie will be found useful, as on being intro- duced through the stricture it will become distended by the heat and moisture of the urethra, and thus act more power- fully on the stricture. Much caution is requisite in passing instruments along the urethra, as false passages may other- wise be formed. Some prefer the catheter to the bougie, in the treatment of stricture, as it may be left for some length of time in the urethra, the urine flowing ofi" through its cavity. Instruments, however, when left in the urethra, are frequently the source of much local irritation, and often induce a severe attack of stricture fever. Metallic instru- ments have been frequently used for the purpose of forcing the stricture; they are now seldom resorted to, for any violence is almost invariably foUowed by severe local and constitutional disturbance. Caustic bougies, as they are called, are occasionally used for the removal of a stricture. They are made by inserting a piece of caustic, either the nitrate of silver or potassae hydras, into a hollow in the end of the bougie. The precise situation of the stricture is first to be ascer- tained, by means of a common bougie; then the caustic bougie is to be passed down, and kept appUed to the stricture for one or two minutes. These instruments are only used in very irritable and resisting strictures. When the stricture is "very irritable, the caustic potash is pre- ferred ; but when it occupies a large portion of the canal, and is of unusual firmness, the nitrate of silver is more frequently used. Caustic bougies have latterly fallen into disuse, as their application is frequently followed by retention of urine, a severe attack of fever, inflammation of the urethra, followed by inflammation of the perineum, and abscess, or by haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. In one case of haemorrhage. Sir A. Cooper was under the necessity of dividing the artery of the bulb, to restrain the bleeding. Mr. Stafi'ord's instruments for dividing strictures have not been generally adopted by the profession.571 STUICTDBE OF THE URETHRA. Spasmodic stricture, usually manifests itself after raucli eating and drinking, that is in a feverish and excited state of the system. It is attributed to spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra, but it is questionable whether it ever occurs without a slight amount of permanent stricture. A catheter should first be tried, then the warm bath, an opiate enema, and some laudanum given by the mouth; and the catheter should be gently pressed against the stricture, which by a little patience will give way. Leeches to the perineum and nauseants, or the muriated tincture of iron in 15 minim doses every quar- ter of an hour, may sometimes be usefully employed. The following may be considered as the principal after- consequences of stricture. Retention of Urine.—This seldom makes its appearance suddenly, unless when much spasm is present; in general . the stream of urine has been gradually diminishing for some time, and then the patient, from some excess or exposure to cold, brings on a complete retention of urine. The symptoms of the afiection are an extreme desire to pass urine, attended with a total inability to do so, or nearly so, a few drops only making their appearance with much straining; a sense of weight and fulness in the blad- der and lower part of the pelvis, and the presence of a circumscribed tumour, formed by the distended bladder, above the pubes. In many cases the last symptom is absent, as the bladder does not rise above the pubes, in consequence of its being in a permanently contracted state. Here, by passing the forefinger of one hand into the rectum, so as to support the inferior fundus of the bladder, whilst we tap with the other hand, above the pubes, the fluctuation of the urine in the bladder becomes at once evident, unless when very much distended; here the presence of the swollen viscus, as felt through the rectum, is sufficient to point out the case. If we meet with a case of this kind, shortly after its commencement, we may administer an emollient enema, followed by an anodyne draught, apply leeches to the peri- neum or above the pubes, and use the warm bath, before we make any attempt to pass the catheter. At one time, the muriated tincture of iron, given in doses of from ten to fifteen drops every quarter of an hour, was much extolled572 SUEGEKY. for giving relief in cases of retention of urine from stric- ture: more general use has not borne out the character originally bestowed on this medicine; in some cases it has proved of much use, but in many others has wholly failed. When the retention has existed for some time, we must at once have recourse to the instrument, a small one being selected for obvious reasons. Should the instrument pass, it is better that it should remain in the bladder as long as the patient can bear it without much inconve- nience. Where we cannot succeed in passing the instrument, and the symptoms become urgent, some mode of drawing off the urine must be adopted, either by tapping the bladder or by cutting down on the stricture; of these, the latter is to be preferred. Tapping the Bladder.—'^^o situations present them- selves for this purpose, above the pubes and through the rectum. The operation of tapping the bladder above the pubes is performed in the following manner: Make a vertical incision, from an inch and a half to two inches in length, through the linea alba, immediately above the pubes, pass in one or two fingers of the left hand, to push up the peritoneum, and feel for the distended bladder; through the lower part of the incision introduce the trocar and canula used for this purpose, du-ecting the instrument downwards, and backwards, or on the axis ot the bladder. The viscus being penetrated, withdraw the trocar and pass through the canula, before the unue can flow out, a gum-elastic catheter, over which the canula is to be withdrawn. The urine now flows through the cathe- ter, and the operation is completed. It is objectionable to leave the canula in tlie bladder, as, from its shortness, it may shp out of that viscus, or, should it retain its place, it will irritate and inflame the mucous membrane, me catheter may be allowed to remain in the bladder for two or three days, when the opening will have become sinuous from the effusion of coagulable lymph, and the catheter may be with safety removed. Three very formidable objec- tions exist to the performance of the operation ot tapping the bladder above the pubes; the first is, the danger ot wounding the peritoneum and small intestines; the second,573 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. the risk there is of the urine becoming extravasated in the cellulai-tissue about the bladder; the third, that the bladder is almost always so contracted in cases of long-continued stricture of the urethra, that it will not rise above the pubes. Tapping the Bladder through the rectum.—The patient being placed on his hands and knees, or as in the operation of lithotomy, introduce the two forefingers of the left hand into the rectum, and feel for the triangular space, on the inferior fundus of the bladder, immediately behind the prostate gland. With the right hand pass the trocar and canula, the point of the trocar being retained within the canula, guided by the forefingers of the left, upwards and forwards (supposing the patient to be in the erect posi- tion) through the rectum into the bladder; withdraw the trocar, allowing the canula to remain, and the urine flows off. It will be necessary, as in the operation above the pubes, to retain the canula in the bladder for a few days, until the canal between the cavities of the bladder and rec- tum become sinuous. The principal objections to this operation are the risk of wounding the peritoneum, pros- tate gland, vasa deferentia, and vesiculee seminales, and the mconvenience which arises from the irregular discharge of the urine through the rectum, wliich is frequently exco- riated by this acrimonious fluid. After tapping the bladder we should endeavour to restore the natural passage as rapidly as possible. Cutting down on and dividing the Stricture.—Thee the" patient as in the operation of Uthotomy, pass a grooved staff down to the stricture, make an incision along the raphe of the perineum down to the urethra, lay open this canal, dividing at the same time the stricture. Withdraw the staff introduce a gum elastic catheter into the bladder and heal the wound in perineo from the bottom Thk operation is to be preferred, for the relief of retention of unne, as it not only removes the immediate sufferines of the patient, but paves the way for the removal of the oriSna disease also. Some recommend opening the ureSra though the perineum, with the trocar and cannln rfafc ^ Eztravmation 0/ Urine.-WUn the relention of urineSURGERY. 574 has not been relieved in sufficient time, the urethra gives way behind the stricture, (being weakened here from its being immoderately distended by the impulse of the urine against the stricture, and also by this fluid acting on the canal itself at this point,) where the urine becomes extra- vasated into the perineum, scrotum, penis, and upon the abdominal parietes. The rupture of the urethra is di- rectly caused by the patient making an effort to pass urine; he feels something give way, and soon begins to experience relief from the previous symptoms of reten- tion ; to his surprise, however, no urine flows externally, At first the urine is confined to the perineum, but soon is forced upwards towards the scrotum, penis, &c., being prevented from passing in any other direction, by the attachment of the perineal fascia. If examined at an early period, there is but httle external appearance pre- sent, there only being a more than usual fulness and hardness of the perineum; hence the case has been fre- quently overlooked. As the extravasation becomes more extensive, the scrotum and penis swell enormously the integument is discoloured, first assuming a blush on the surface, then becoming of a dark red or purplish colour, indicative of approaching gangrene. So soon as the surgeon has ascertained that extravasation of urine has taken place, incisions are at once to be made into the several parts where the urine is lodged. The first incision is made in perineo, down to the urethra, in order not only to give exit to the urine already extravasated, but also to afford a free passage to that from the bladder, and thus prevent further extravasation, and to allow of the escape of any sloughs that may form. Other incisions are to be made in the scrotum, penis, and in the abdommal parietes ; in fact, wherever the urine has extended itself; for, if this fluid be allowed to remain, it will cause extensive destruc- tion of the ceUular tissue and integuments with which it may have come into contact. As soon as all the sloughs have separated, and the wounds begin to heal, attempts should be made to restore the original canal. Most fre- quently the patients die from the irritation induced by the separation of the sloughs, before any attempt at a perma- nent cure can be made. Catarrhus vesiccE.—is a chronic inflammation otSTRICTUKE OF THE URETHRA. 575 the mucous membrane of the bladder, and one of the most frequent consequences of long-continued stricture. It is characterised by a frequent desire to pass water, which is discharged with a quantity of flaky mucus, or purulent matter, and sometimes blood. The mucus, or purulent matter, is in general passed with much strain- ing, after the urine has been evacuated; the former falls to the bottom of the chamber utensil, to which it adheres very tenaciously. The urine is of a pale colour, and soon emits a most fetid, ammoniacal odour. There is also pain in the region of the neck of the bladder, in the penis and lumbar region, and a certain degree of irritation of the rectum. The constitutional symptoms are those indicative of irritative fever. As the disease advances, it spreads along the ureters to the kidneys, which become afi'ected in a similar manner, and not unfrequently form abscesses. In general the patient sinks under the affection before it has advanced thus far. The treatment of catarrhus vesicse consists in the admi- nistration of opiates, internally or by the rectum, of opiate injections into the bladder, and in the occasional exhibition of copaiba balsam, in smaU doses, Hquor potass^, decoctum uvse ursi, decoct, pareirae, mucilaginous drinks, &c. Relief may be obtained by these remedies, but they seldom effect a cure, unless the stricture be removed, and this only in the earlier stages. Gonorrheal ophthalmia occasionally appears as one of the consequences of gonorrhoea, vide Diseases of the Eye Some patients when affected with gonorrhcea are liable to a more moderate inflammation of the eyes, accompanied with a rheumatic inflammation of one or more of the joints The exhibition of the balsam of copaiba and the various torms ot turpentine becomes necessary. These attacks nrp often both tedious and difficult of removal. Secondary symptoms occasionally follow an attack of virulent gonorrhc^a; they are generally papular eruption pains m the joints, and a whitish patchv excork on of the throat and fauces, and occasionally ir.L GonorrhcEa in females attacks the 'labia, nymphse the onfice of the meatus urinarius, and vagina. ffeSmal parts become much inflamed, and Snder to tL tl? l The treatment is the same a's that "n teln^'hettSURQEllY. 576. subject; local remedies, such as lotions, may be made of a much greater strength and injected into the vagina, -when the acute inflammatory symptoms have subsided. Young females are subject to a purulent discharge from the external parts of generation, from want of cleanliness during dentition, &c. This disease should be distinguished from gonorrhoea. It is cured by means of the lotio nigra, with the administration of rhubarb and calomel internally. ON SYPHILIS. The venereal disease, or syphilis, is contracted, Uke gonorrhoea, by the contact of infectious matter apphed to s'ome part of the body, most frequently the penis m the male, the labia in the female subject. It appears as a primary affection, in the form of a sore, named a chancre, and in the secondary affections in the form of inflamma- tion and ulcerations on different parts of the body, the mucous membrane of the throat, the skin, periosteum, and A chancre generally appears within from four to seven days after connection, but the time of manifesting itself i variable, and may extend to many weeks. Its usual seat is the corona glandis, but it may also form on he gl^s prepuce, or body of the penis; indeed, on almost any S of the humkn body. The poison first produces a Smnle on the part, of a darker hue than pimples in Sal, Ld att^ended with inflammation. The pimple buSg, an ulcer is formed in the centre and then a rugh f produced in the body of the sore which is often la?-f and extends beneath the skin. The charac er of the^sore is as follows: it is generally circular in shape; the surrounding edges are hard and ragged; ^ surfa« is yellowish, and the margin red; it is «"rr°unded by an erysipelatous redness, and it possesses an indurated base The general treatment of chancre consists in the exhibi- tion of mercury, in the form of blue pill, m five grains with a quarter of a grain of 0F"'«'"'S^^ .^"^ morning, for a period of two or three weeks. 1 he opium is of use in preventing the mercury passing off bj tne bowels The local application of black wash is beneficial.SYPHILIS. 577 The diet should be mild and unirritating, the patient avoid- ing acid drinks and much vegetable matter. Although the symptoms above mentioned will indicate a chancre, still the constitution of the patient and many other causes mil frequently prevent their development, and give to the sore appearances which may render its diagnosis difficult. Thus, when the poisonous matter is appJied to a sore, excoriation, or fissure in the skin, it takes some time before the syphilitic symptoms appear m the ulcer. In these cases it is better to apply some common lotion to the sore, and wait to see whether It IS venereal or not. If a chancre forms on the trsenura, it usually desti-oys the part rapidly, unless ITll '^-^^y' ™ore irregular in appear! ance than chancres in other parts, and is in general ca e wheTTb E^^"^'"''' the case when the sore forms where the skin is reflexed IZ, " "^T- ^^""^^^^ if «i'"^t^d on the corona glandis, or between it and the fra^num, often ex end fnto fl^P n 1 ° ^ '^^'""^^ ^^'ough the skin and sitgh ' '^'""^'^ ' disposition to ulcerate The state of the constitution modifies the appearance of a syphditic sore more than any other circumTance In persons of an irritable habit, whe'ther dependent on orHna" taken internaUy are of 1,,.^ ^"^^ «P'"'^' constitutional irritation Tt 7"''^" ^^^^^^'"S ^^e nigra, lotio sulpL zmd Tot o fl 'PP^'^f lotio ^ zinci, lotio flava, and poultices will578 SURGERY. be found most beneficial. Where the sloughing process is spreading rapidly, nitric acid, or chloride of antimony, may be applied. Chancres are sometimes treated by the application of caustic, which destroys the sore, a slough soon separates upon which the ulcer heals up. Caustic will be found beneficial only in the first stages of chancre, and should not be used in an irritable state of the parts. Phymosis is an elongated condition of the prepuce, which hangs over and conceals the glans. It is caused by inflammation, which terminates in an effusion of serum or lymph, or both, into the cellular tissue of the prepuce. Where the inflammation is violent, the an- tiphlogistic regimen is to be strictly observed, both locally and constitutionally; at the same time tepid water, or weak astringent lotions, should be injected under the prepuce frequently during the day. When sloughing attacks the prepuce, the fermenting poultice should be applied, and five grains of ammonia, with ten of musk, given two or three times a day. The nitrous acid lotion will also be found useful. Wlien the inflammation of phymosis subsides, the prepuce fre- quently remains enlarged; here it will be necessary to divide the prepuce with the bistoury, or it may be alto- gether removed. t Paraphymosis is the reverse of phymosis. In this, the constricted prepuce is retracted behind the corona glandis, and cannot be drawn forwards. The edge of the prepuce, constricting the corona glandis, will, if allowed to remain, cause a sloughing of the glans penis, or wiU hberate itselt by acting on the constricted part. The strangulation is reduced by drawing the prepuce forcibly forwards: for this purpose, first compress the swollen glans, so as to empty its vessels; when this has been done, the skin ot the penis is drawn forwards, the glans being pressed back at the same time. If this plan does not succeed, the stric- ture should be divided with the sharp-pointed bistoury. Syphilitic iJxSo.—When a chancre has existed for some time, the absorbents take up the poison, and conveying it to the upper row of the inguinal glands, produce an inflam- mation and swelling of these, forming a bubo: one gland only is usually enlarsred from the svphilitic matter, butSECONDAEY FOEMS OF SYPHILIS. 579 many may be sympathetically inflamed. A bubo may not form until after the healing of the sore, as its forma- tion may be delayed by some other disease in the patient. Mercury should be exhibited as for the treatment of the chancre, and local remedies applied to lessen the inflam- mation: of these, leeches and cold evaporating lotions will be found most beneficial. It frequently happens that treatment will not prevent the gland from advancino- to suppuration; this is indicated by sharp throbbing pains m the part; when these appear, the mercury should be laid aside, and purgative medicines administered, poultices and fomentations being applied at the same time to the swellmg. As soon as fluctuation becomes manifest a small opening should be made into the bubo with the point of the lancet, and the disease treated as a common abscess. If a bubo be improperly treated by a persever- ance in the use of mercury sloughing will take place, pro- ducing the sloughiug bubo. This affection is treated on the prmciples of mortification from any other cause The sloughing not unfrequently extends to the iliac or femoral artery, when death is caused by hcemorrhage. Where a bubo is large and contains much matter, it should be opened with the seton passed throu<^h it or bv the application of caustic; the latter is to be preferred where the skin is thinned to a considerable extent. Sinuses sometimes form in the treatment of a bubo; they should be laid open with a bistoury. ON THE SECONDARY FORMS OF SYPHILIS. The secondary forms of syphilis appear in three situa tions, namely, the mucous membrane of the throat and nose, the skin, and the periosteum and bones Secondary symptoms seldom show themselves before siv to eight weeks after the primary, but the two may coexist They generally show themselves in the following o^deJ '^f sore-throat, eruption on tlie skin, iritis, and periostiti's ' Secondary syphilitic diseases of the mouth m„J ^- When syphUis affects the floor of the nose, or roof of the mouth tC f becomes red and inflamed, and a'pt^ onT f"\Krobe bony palate is Lpised, anTmTy^e telt with tbe probe. The exposed bone in some time580 STJEGEKY. separates, and a communication maybe established between the mouth and nose, which gives a nasal sound to the voice, and allows of fluids passing from one cavity to the other The discharge is thin and ichorous, and ot very offensive smell. The tonsils also become aflected with sores, having the characters of chancres. The throat feels dry and the inflammation extends along the Eustaclnan tubes to the ear, producing acute pain and deafness, ihe mucous membrane covering the velum, and hning the back of the pharynx, is also liable to a similar state of u cera- tion This not unfrequently extends to the cervical ver- tebrse, and proves fatal by the destruction of the bones, or the opening of the vertebral artery. , • . Syphilitic disease will extend from the throat into the larvnx, where, inducing ulceration and thickening of the raucous membrane, it impedes respiration, and may prove fatal, by causing suffocation of the patient. It sometimes occurs, in these cases, that portions of the cartilages of the larynx become detached, and are spit up. Mercury should be exhibited for the cure of these affections of the throat and fauces, either internaUy or by means of mercu- rial fumigations: local applications, such as the lotio nit: ar-enti, linimentum seruginis, &c. being made use of to the sore Should there be much inflammation present this should be subdued before the mercury is commenced with. In this case, and also most other forms of secondary syphilis, the happiest results have been produced by the administration of iodide of potassium with small doses of iodine, and large quantities of the decoction of ^«-^P<->l »• In syphilitic laryngitis the administration o calomel and opium, so as to bring the patient as rapidly as pos ible under the influence of mercury, will be most judicious blisters and leeches being applied externally to reheve the inflammatory symptoms. . ^ The mucous membrane of the cavity of the nose is oc- casionally attacked with syphilitic ulceration ; a thin icho- rous discharge, mixed with clots of blood, escapes, and is often followed by exfoliations of the spongv, and, at a later period, of the nasal bones, causing much de ormity. in this affection mercury should be exhibited with much caution, as the disease may have been produced by the too great use of this medicine. Generally speaking, theSYPHILITIC EEUPTIONS. 581 use of astringent lotions, injected up tlie nose, and the exiiibition of sarsaparilla, or the nitric acid internally, ■will be most beneficial. SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS are liable to much variety. The most common kind met with is the copper-coloured eruption, in which the blotches rise a little above the surface of the skin, and, if they o-o on to ulceration, form thick incrustations. They are at- tended with very little pain; an itching, rather than a painful sensation, is felt in the part, and increases towards evening. In some, the eruption is of considerable mag- nitude, but is unattended with ulceration; in others, ul- ceration wiU be observed, with a very ragged edge. The parts in which venereal eruptions form most frequently, are the head, face, and roots of the hair, the back of the neck and shoulders, and palms of the hand. In some, the whole surface of the skin is covered over with the eruption. In many, the eruption is of the papular form • in others, the pustular will be found to predominate: the papular is the mildest form, and terminates by desqua- mation ; the pustular frequently runs into ulceration. If the ulcerations be exposed, crusts form on the surface of the sores, particularly on the face and forehead; these rise to a considerable height, and assume a conical shape and are named i-upia. Eruptions are the earliest secon- dary symptoms of syphilis, appearing in general from the sixth to the tenth week after the formation of the primary sore; they are usuaUy accompanied by sore throat and inflammation of the iris, and not unfrequently by pains m the head, joints, and bones. They are, in most cases preceded by inflammatory symptoms, such as pains in the turbanTe ' general febrHe dis- The treatment of these eruptions consist in the Pvbi bition of the blue pill, night and morning, if mucI nflam mation be not present; if this should^be th case the plummer s pi n,ay be given, with sarsaparilla, and he irritation ot the skm controUed by the warm bath and diaphoretic medicines. Nitric acid will als^ be found useful, particularly when much mercury has been already given, and the constitution of the patient is in a debdS 5SURGEEY. 582 State. The iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla, is at- tended here also with signal benefit. SYPHILITIC DISEASES 01' THE PERIOSTEUM AND BONES are later in their appearance than those of the skin. The long bones, which are exposed and are uncovered by muscles, are most liable to them; such as the tibia, fibula, xilna, and clavicle ; the femur and humerus are but rarely afi"ected. The flat bones of the head, particularly the os frontis and os parietale, are also attacked with secondary syphilis. Of the irregular bones, the sternum is most subject to syphilitic attacks. The symptoms by which syphilitic diseases of the bones are known are as follow:— the patient experiences, in the evening, a sensation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the seat of the node, this pain does not immediately produce a swelling, but, in the course of a few days, a swelling appears in the evening, and disappears on the following morning. It is tender and painful in the evening: but these symptoms are scarcely perceptible in the morning. At this time, the periosteum only is affected; but soon after, a deposit takes place between it and the surface of the bone: this deposit is, in the first instance, only a serous fluid, but a cartilaginous substance is soon secreted, which is gradu- ally converted into bone, forming a node. The treatment of this affection is the same as that for other forms of syphilis, namely, the exhibition of mercury. If there be much pain present, leeches or blisters may be applied to the parts. If the bone is enlarged, the emplas- trum ammoniaci c. hydrargyro, or a blister, will sometimes cause the absorption of the osseous deposit. A quantity of serous fluid is sometimes found fluctuatmg between the periosteum and bone. When this is unattended with any inflammation of the skin, it is better not to cut down upon the bone, for if this is done, exfoliation will most likely be the result; blisters, in conjunction with mercury, will in general cause the absorption of the tumour. When, on the contrary, redness and pain are present in the part, in- dicating the presence of purulent matter, an incision should be made immediately through the periosteum. Caries of the bone and exfoliation often take place (not- withstanding all our efl'orts to the contrary), which exhaust583 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. the patient's strength, and, in the bones of the head, induce inflammation of the dura mater and brain, destroying life, by the formation of matter in the interior of the cranium. The foetus, in utero, may be impregnated with syphiHs from the mother. The symptoms manifest themselves within twenty-four hours after birth, the palms of the hand, the soles of the feet, and the nates become covered with a copper-coloured eruption, and the nails generally begin to fall off. Mercury should be administered to the mother, and will, by means of the milk, be communicated to the child. In these cases, however, the child often dies before birth. ON WARTS. Warts frequently form on the glans penis, in consequence of the application of matter from similar productions, or of a diseased action in the glandulse odoriferse. They were formerly supposed to be syphilitic, but are now known not to be so. Local applications, such .as the hquor plumbi diacetatis dilutus, lotio nitratis argenti, acetic acid, and solution of bichloride of mercury, will soon destroy them, by producing a sloughing of them, or by stimulating the absorbents to their removal. Syphilis in females produces similar appearances to those observed in males. The primary sores form, in general, on the inner surface of the labia. A similar mode of treatment ought to be pursued. The eye and testis are subject to disease in connection with syphilis, although it is denied by many that these are syphilitic afiections; they are treated of under the heads of Diseases of the Eye and Diseases of the Testis. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland is seldom diseased, except in ad- vanced life. Phlegmonous inflammation has been met with m the young subject, even before puberty This may be caused by gonorrhoea, or other cases of inflamed urethra, or may appear as an idiopathic afi-ection. It is ZZTi J T"\^''fY' P«i° i" the region Inl « ot the bladder a frequent desire to pass urine, a sense of weight and fulness in perineo, and anSURGEEY. 584 irritable state of the rectum. Some fever is also usually present. Leeches to the perineum, fomentations, the warm bath, and purgative medicines will generally remove the affection. Should the gland become much enlarged, retention of urine will be the consequence: here the introduction of the catheter becomes necessary. In some cases, and particularly in scrofulous subjects, all our attempts to remove the inflammatory symptoms are in- effectual ; they proceed to suppuration, which is indicated by the pain being dull and heavy, rather than acute, attended with shiverings and an accession of fever towards evening. If left to itself, the abscess will, most pro- bably, make its way into the urethra, but may burst in perineo. Should any urgent symptoms be caused by the collection of matter, the abscess should be opened in perineo. In more advanced life, the prostate gland is liable to a peculiar chronic enlargement, improperly termed scirrhus, for it is not malignant, neither does it present the fibrous structure of true scirrhus, nor ever degenerate into open cancer. One or both lobes may be afi'ected with this disease, but the left is more frequently attacked than either the right or the middle lobe. It is looked upon as a remote consequence of gonorrhoeal inflammation, but has been known to occur in individuals who had never suffered from that disease. Being a chronic affection, it is sometimes many years increasing, before it causes serious inconvenience'to the patient. At first there is some irritability of the bladder, as shown by frequent desire to pass urine, the stream of urine diminishes in size, and is with difficulty expelled, in many instances only dropping from the end of the penis; there is also a sense of fulness in perineo, and irregular pains about the neck of the bladder and rectum. As the disease advances, the difficulty of passing urine becomes greater, until com- plete retention takes place. This is seldom so urgent as retention of urine from gonorrhoea or stricture, as some urine in general dribbles away, which relieves the distended bladder. If the patient be examined per anum, the enlargement of the gland is easily felt. The eftccts of the enlarged gland on the urethra depend on the lobe or lobes affected: thus, if the left lobe be enlarged, the urethra is585 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. thrown to the right side, and vice versa: if both lobes be affected, the canal is narrowed frona side to side, whilst it is increased in the vertical direction, so as to resemble a mere chink, at the same time that the canal is also in- creased in length; the rectum is also pressed upon, so that there is usually some difficulty in passing the fseces, and these are often indented by the enlarged gland. The treatment of this enlargement of the prostate gland consists in the occasional introduction of the catheter, and the removal of the irritability of the bladder, by means of suppositories or anodyne enemata. The catheter selected for the purpose should be of the gum-elastic kind, large and longer than those commonly in use, and provided with a stilet. As soon as the point of the instrument has passed down to the enlarged gland, by withdrawing the stilet the point of the catheter will be raised, and by pushing it gently forwards it will pass into the bladder; the same object may be obtained by pressing in perineo, or by the introduction of the finger per anum. The surgeon should bear in mind that, although some urine may escape, retention may still be present, the bladder relieving itself only of the superabundant portion of the fluid, which flows off without much eflbrt on the part of the patient, the bladder being often in a paralysed state. In the advanced stages of the disease a quantity of viscid, ropy mucus is passed from the urethra; this is secreted in the prostate gland, as weU as from the mucous membrane of the bladder. By the treatment mentioned reUef will be, in general, obtained, although a cure can scarcely be expected. The middle lobe of the prostate gland sometimes becomes enlarged It then presses upwards, towards the neck of the bladder, and here forms a valvular tumour, generaUv ot a pyramidal shape, which obstructs the flow of urine until this fluid has collected in such quantities as to nass over the sides or fundus of the swelling; hence a stiUiddimn attends this affection. The freatnent is thetm as that directed tor enlargement of the lateral lobes. The enlarged middle lobe frequently becomes incrusted with calcareous ma ter ; and hence, as also from the symptoms ha. induced the idea of a calculus being in the^avity of the bladder. One very remarkable symptom present in 25 §586 SUllGEJiY. the disease of a stone in the bladder, and generally con- sidered as diagnostic, is a sudden stoppage of the urine, caused by the stone falling against the opening of the urethra. The fixed point of the tumour in enlarged prostate will distinguish it from a calculus. Calcuh occasionally form in the prostate gland. They are usually small, numerous, and composed of the phos- phate of lime. From their proximity to the bladder, and the symptoms produced by them, they may lead to the supposition of a calculus being contained in the bladder. When small, they escape frequently by the urethra; but when they have attained a large size, may become impacted in the canal, and so produce a retention of urine. If the calculus cannot be removed by dilating the urethra, as re- commended by Sir A. Cooper, it should be cut down upon through the perineum, and thus removed. Much care is requisite in order to prevent its passing back into the bladder. DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. Hernia humoralis or Testitis.—This is an acute inflam- mation of the testis, and most frequently appears in con- nexion with gonorrhoea. Vide Gonorrhoea. Scrofulous disease of Testis.—This, in general, appears about the age of puberty. The testicle becomes enlarged, but without much pain. If the disease be not arrested, numerous abscesses form in the testis, which burst exter- nally, and discharge a scrofulous matter. The gland is almost always destroyed. Hydatids of the Testis—Ihis. disease generally appears between the ages of seventeen and thirty. It begins at the extremity of the epididymis, where it joins the testis, both these parts soon become enlarged, but not painful. The veins of the spermatic cord become varicose. The consti- tution of the patient is unaffected. This disease will require removal of the testicle when it has attained a large size. Irritable Testis.—The part is so exceedingly tender that the patient cannot bear to walk, as pressure of the testicle gives him excruciating pain. Handling of the testis pro- duces dreadful pain, which will last for hours after, passing up the spermatic cord to the loins, and along theDISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 587 nerves of the thigh. It may be relieved by the blue pill and hyoscyamus, and belladonna, but generally returns and continues for months and even years. This disease often requires castration. Sarcocele.—The term sarcocele has been applied to almost every disease of the testis, in ^vhich this gland becomes enlarged; hence much obscurity has ai*isen with regard to diseases of this gland in general; vre purpose confining the term to that enlargement of the testis which takes place in a syphilitic state of the constitution (although Mr. Hunter denied the existence of such a disease), and which may be therefore named venereal sarcocele. This is one of the latest of the secondary symptoms of the ve- nereal disease, not appearing in most cases for years after the primary sore. It is, in general, accompanied with other symptoms of a venereal taint in the constitution, such as pains in the bones and joints, a few irregular syphilitic patches or ulcers on the skin, and not unfre- quently a species of hectic fever, characterised by profuse night sweats, loss of rest and of appetite, wasting" of the body, and great debility. One or both testes may be en- larged at the same time. The gland usually attains a large size, somewhat oval in shape, and slightly flattened at the sides. The integuments are not discoloured, nor is there much pain. The swelling is heavy, but not so much so as in the scirrhus testis. This disease is best treated with mercury, applied externally in the form of ointment, and taken internally in the form of blue pill or calomel, night and morning. By a perseverance in this plan to sali- vation the disease rapidly disappears, and with it the con- stitutional symptoms. Scirrhus Testis.—This is a very rare disease. It ap- pears in the advanced periods of hfe, and presents the same characters as cancerous tumours in other parts of the body. See Cancer. Castration is the only remedy. This operation should be performed before the disease has extended itself to the spermatic cord or lumbar glands. FuTiffus hamatodes of the 7e5^?«.—This disease is more frequently met with than scirrhus. Its characters are the same as in other situations, and will be seen under the article Fungus Hsematodes. This disease is sometimesSURGERY. 588 confounded with hydrocele. Castration should be per- formed as soon as the nature of the disease has been ascer- tained, provided that the cord or lumbar glands have not become affected, or the general health of the patient does not indicate the disease to be constitutional. Unfortunately in almost all cases the operation is useless, for the disease soon manifests itself in other parts and soon carries off the patient. Sclerocele.—Mr. Ramsden described a peculiar enlarge- ment of the testis under the name of sclerocele, which he conceived to be caused by an irritable state of the urethra, and which was only removed by the doing away with the inflamed state of the canal, by the use of bougies. The disease is not now acknowledged, although in many cases, the state of the urethra will be found to have much influ- ence on the testis. Hydro-sarcocele.—This is an effusion of serum into the tunica vaginalis, in combination with an enlarged testis. As the presence of the fluid often depends on the disease of the gland, when this is removed the other disappears. Should this not take place, the case may be treated as a simple hydrocele. In some cases the evacuation of the fluid at first becomes necessary, in order to make an examination of the state of the testis. Castration is performed for the removal of malignant diseases of the testis in cases of hydatids and irritable testis. The operation is performed as follows:— Grasp the testicle in the left hand, begin the incision at the upper part of the external abdominal ring, and extend it to the lower extremity of the scrotum, so that no bag may be formed for the lodgment of matter. Lay bare the spermatic cord at the ring, and tie the spermatic artery and artery of the vas deferens. Divide the spermatic cord, and dissect out the testicle from be- hind. The spermatic cord should not be divided until the arteries are tied, or the cord secured, so as to prevent its being retracted by the action of the cremaster muscle into the inguinal canal. Should this accident occur, it will be necessary to slit up the cord, in order to come at the bleeding vessels. Tie anv vessels that mav bleed in the scrotum, and bring the edges of the wound together. When tl)e scrotum has been much dis- tended by the diseased testis, a portion of the integuments may be removed, by making two elliptical incisions, which will meet above and below. Varicocele, Spermatocele, Cirsocele, — These severalHYDROCELE. 589 names have been applied to a disease in which the sper- matic veins become varicose. It is more frequent on the left than on the right side, from the termination of the left spermatic vein, in the left renal, which it joins at a right angle. The part of the cord below the external abdominal ring is more subject to the disease than that above this point. It is known by the swellino- of the cord, which, when felt, resembles a bag of earth-worms. It is attended with pains in the cord, extending into the Inmbar region, and by a wasting of the testis. The testis should be suspended in a bag-truss, an d leeches and cold lotions occasionally appHed. The tying of the vein as re- commended by Sir E. Home, should never be performed. Varicocele is frequently mistaken for an inguinal hernia. Hcematocele is a term appHed to a collection of blood in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, produced by a wound of a vessel of magnitude, in the operation of tapping a hydro- cele, which pours its blood into the interior of the sac; or by a rupture of one of the vessels of the cord or scrotum from lujuiy. It is distinguished from hydrocele by the history of the case, its want of transparency, the greater density of the fluid, and greater weight of the tumour Evaporating lotions should be applied to the part, so as to cause the absorption of the efl'used blood : if these should not succeed, the tunica vaginaUs should be cut into, and the effused blood removed. An ecchymosed state of the scrotum, with great disco- loration, in which blood is extravasated in the cellular tissue of the part, is not unfrequent after operation near the scrotum, and injuries of it. The blood is generally absorbed in a few days. ^ ON HYDKOCELE. The term hydrocele, although applicable to any tumour contaimng water, in general indicates a collection of serum in the sac of the tunica vaginalis. It is a perfectfv local disease, and occurs most frequently in the Idult oJ advanced periods of life. It is'som^times caused by TJl' 1 fi™?'' »,«"^ll.y appears as an idiopathic atfection^ I^hs but af i^^'''^ '° '^""^"^ °f '''^ tunica vagi nalis , but as it increases m quantity, extends towards the external abdominal ring. Wh^n fulf; formed, the tumou?SURGERY. 590 is of a pyriform shape, with the base below ; the integu- ments of' the scrotum are distended and deprived of their corrugated appearance, the raphe is thrown to the oppo- site side, and the penis appears diminished in size. The swelling is light in proportion to its size, and fluctuation may be perceived, when the fingers of one hand are applied to one side of the tumour, and the surgeon taps slightly with the fingers of his other hand upon an opposite point of the swelling; it is also in general transparent. Hydro- cele is unattended with pain or uneasiness, except such as is occasioned by its bulk, and its dragging on the cord, which frequently induces pain in the inguinal and lumbar regions. The testicle is situated to the back part of the swelling, and opposite about the junction of its upper with the two lower thirds. "When the above symptoms are present, hydrocele is easily distinguished; but this is not always the case; thus, it may be elongated in shape, or may present an hour- glass appearance, in consequence of partial adhesions of the tunica vaginalis. Fluctuation cannot be always per- ceived, from the large quantities of fluid in the tumour, and consequently tense state of its coverings; it may be opaque fromi the thickness of the tunica vaginalis, or the dark colour of its contents, and the testis may be ad- herent to any part of the tunica vaginalis from previous adhesions. . j i Hydrocele, too, is sometimes accompanied by other diseases, which add to the difficulty of the diagnosis. The most frequent are hernia and enlarged testis. In the former, the hernial tumour passes down behind the sac of the hydrocele. Hydrocele may be confounded with other diseases: of these the most likely are hernia, enlarged testis, and fungus h^ematodes. It may be dis- tinguished from a hernia by this commencing from above, by the difl'erence in their shape, the open state of the external abdominal ring in hernia, and by the surgeon being enabled to feel the intestine, by grasping the cord immediately below the ring, and the difi"ereuce in the rela- tions of the testis in the two cases. An enlarged testis is distinguished from a hydrocele by its greater weight, its more globular form, its want of transparency, and the history of the case. Fungus hnematodcs is the mostHYDROCELE. 591 likely of all the diseases of the testis to be mistaken for a hydrocele; but the irregularity in the feel of the tumour, its greater weight, and the absence of trans- parency, will point out the true nature of the affection. The fluid in hydrocele is serous, generally straw- coloured, sometimes dark, and is composed of water, albumen, and the usual salts of the blood. The treatment of hydrocele is divided into the palliative and radical. The palliative treatment consists in the re- moval of the fluid as often as it is collected, by means of tapping the hydrocele. The radical comprises, in addition, the exciting a degree of inflammation in the interior of the tunica vaginalis, whereby its cavity is obliterated, or a new membrane formed, so as to line its. internal surface, and which does not possess a secreting power. The palliative treatment is resorted to in cases where the hydrocele is accompanied with an enlarged testis, constituting the disease hydro-sarcocele; in old persons' particularly when the hydrocele is large, and in cases where the tunica vaginahs is much thickened. As a general rule, the palhative treatment should be adopted before the radical is resorted to, in order to allow of an opportunity of ascertaining the condition of the testis and selecting the most favorable state of the tumour as regards its size, for the radical treatment. When the pal- hafave treatment is decided on, the operation is performed as rollows :—■ Place the patient in the erect posture, with his back supported against a table or the wall; ascertain the situation of the testis grasp the tumour a little below the external ring with the left hand, so as to force the fluid to the lower part of the tunica va ginahs, and thus protect the testis. With a lancet make a snS nos.on through the skin of the scrotum, on the anterior niTof the tumour, a short distance above its lower fundus, aXn a t a^f where no vessels of magnitude are seen. Introd .ce the tron^J ZtZT ","V'''"""' ^"'S'"'^"''' ^^'''h^>--v trocar aK iiig the canula to remain, and the fluid will flow nff ti ! should be directed first backwards as f owL^^'i ?^trocar as soon as it hasentered the tu. ica Uji fa^Us Ltt ^^^^ turned upwards, so as to avoid woundmr i is g aSd fluid IS drawn ofi" the rnnnii ° g'and. \\ hen the ur«„d .1,1, £z p/^ ""'!"«592 SURGERY. Where then we operate in old persons or bad constitutions, a few days' rest after the operation is advisable. Many surgeons introduce the trocar at once without the previous incision by the lancet. The radical cure is produced by injection, incision, ex- cision, tent, caustic, and acupuncture. Injection:—As soon as the water is drawn off from the tunica Yaginalis a stimulating fluid is injected into the sac, which is aUowed to remain for a few minutes, aud is then discharged, ine canula is withdrawn, and the wound dressed. Lhe best fluids, for this purpose, are port wme mixed with water, in equal proportions, or a Httle stronger or weaker than this, according to the irritabiUty of the patient, and a solution of sulphate of zinc, in the proportion ot 53 to the pint of water; any other stimulatmg injection will answer. Many surgeons now prefer injectmg into the sac a small quantity of ^Tincture of Iodine, from one to two drachms, and leaving it there to excite inflammatory action. When a case proceeds favorably, some inflammation appears on the second or third day after the operation, as indicated by heat, pain and redness of the scrotum, and a return of the swelling, the tumour frequently attaining as _ large a size as before the operation, caused by an ettusion of serum into the tunica vaginahs. Towards the close of the week, the inflammation gradually subsides and the swelling disappears, so that the cure is completed in he course of ten days. The cure is accomplished by the effusion of coagulable lymph, which causes the complete or partial obliteration of the sac of the tumca ^^S'^^^^i^ by Ldhesion of its opposed surfaces; and those parts w ch do not adhere are hned by an adventitious n^embrai e which has not the power of secreting ^^^''''''^''1^^ enlargement of the testis remains after the operation, which may not disappear for many weeks. In some cases the operation for the radical cuie of hydrocele is not followed by sufficient inflammation ; then the patient should be directed to walk about, and be allowed a generous diet, so as to excite the requisite inflammatory action. On the contrary, it may be followed by too great a degree of inflammation; here, the use of leeches, to- meutations, purgative medicines, and a low diet, becomes necessary, aided, if required, by bleeding from the arm.HYDKOCELE. 593 If sufficient care be not taken in preforming the opera- tion of tapping a hydrocele, the testis may be wounded; this accident may be followed by severe inflammation of the gland, and may terminate fatally. Whilst injecting, too, the end of the canula may shp from out the tunica vaginahs, and the fluid will escape into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The occurrence of this accident may be known, by the great difliculty experienced in im- pelling forward the fluid, and by its not escaping after- wards freely through the canula. When this mistake has occurred, incisions should be made at once into the scro- tum, so as to cause the discharge of the fluid, and prevent the sloughing of the scrotum, so likely otherwise to ensue. The operation for the radical cure of hydrocele has been, occasionally, followed by such a severe degree of inflammation, as to induce mortification and sloughing of the integuments of the scrotum. In somewhat milder cases, abscesses have formed in the scrotum. In cases of hydro-sarcocele, where the hydrocele is complicated with an enlargement of the testis, it is better to remove the .disease of the gland before resorting to the operation, as it occasionally occurs that when the disease of the testes has been removed, the fluid in the tunica vaginahs be- comes absorbed. Excision consists in dissecting out and removing the tunica vaginahs. This is au exceedingly dangerous opera- tion, and is now never resorted to. Some recommend the cutting away a small portion only. It is seldom practised except in cases where the tunica vaginalis is much thick- ened, and the operation by injection has failed to produce the requisite degree of inflammation. Incision consists in cutting into the tunica va->-iualis and filling the cavity with lint. It is scarcely ever ner- formed at present. ^ In this method of treating hydrocele, an inci- sion is made into the tunica vaginalis, and a dossil of lint or piece of sponge introduced, through the opening, into Seton:-l!hh operation may be preformed by passing a probe armed with a seton, (through the canula after of □eiore ine water uas been drawn off;) to tiie upper part of594 SURGERY. the tunica vaginalis, where its extremity is cut down upon, and the instrument drawn through. The seton is preferred to the injection in children. It should be removed as soon as sufficient inflammation appears to be excited in the parts. Infants are subject to hydrocele. An opera- tion is seldom required in them, as the use of stimulating lotions to the scrotum, in general, causes the absorption of the fluid. Acupuncture consists in introducing proper needles through the scrotum and tunica vaginalis, leaving them there a short time and then withdrawing them; a little fluid escapes from the orifices, and an inflammatory action is set up, which sometimes leads to the absorption of the fluid in the tunica vaginalis. This, however, is prone to return, and the operation must be repeated. It is not adopted by the profession generally. It should be borne in mind that, in old cases of hydrocele, the component parts of the cord become spread out, and may be met with on the anterior surface of the tumour; thus the yas deferens or spermatic artery may be wounded, if sufficient care be not observed. Hydrocele of the cord.—This is a collection of fluid in a cyst, formed by the tunica communis of the cord, and appears most frequently in that part of the cord which lies between the external abdominal ring and the testis. It is elongated in shape, tense, and free from pain. The testis lies beneath it. It is treated either by injecting the cyst, or excising a portion of it, or by the introduction of a dossil of lint into its interior. Hydrocele of the cord may be confounded with a hernia, or a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. It is distinguished from a hernia by the absence of pain or tenderness, the want of impulse on coughing, and the non-existence of constitutional symp- toms. It is distinguished from a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis by the situation and shape of the swelling and the relative position of tlie testis. Infiltration of serum into the cellular tissue of the cord has been described by surgeons under the name of diffused hydrocele of the cord. It does not deserve the name. It has been stated by some surgeons that in hydrocele of the cord, the fluid contains spermatozoa. Congenital Hydrocele.—This form of the disease resultsDISEASES OP THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 595 from the tunica vaginalis not having become obliterated at its upper part, so as to separate it from the cavity of the peritoneum. It is recognized by the fluid passing up into the abdominal cavity, when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture, and again descending when he assumes the erect posture. A truss should be applied so as to obliterate the communication between the cavities of the tunica vaginalis and peritoneum. "When this is accom- plished any fluid remaining in the tunica vaginalis is easily absorbed by the use of discutieut lotions. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Hcemorrhoids or Piles.—These are, by far, the most fre- quent of all the diseases of the lower part of the rectum; few individuals past the meridian of life being completely free from them. They are small, irregular, vascular tumours, of a dark bluish colour, which form around the margin of the anus, either within or external to the cavity of the rectum: hence divided into internal and external. Haemorrhoids are of two descriptions, consisting either of the dilated extremities of the hsemorrhoidal veins, or of vascular organised tumours. These last are formed in the following manner: from some inflammatory action in the part, lymph, or, according to some, blood is effused into the cellular tissue; the lympli or blood becomes organised, that is, vessels shoot into it, and thus the tumour soon attains a considerable size. In some cases lisemorrhoidal tumours are productive of but little inconvenience, in others, on the contrary, and particularly when inflamed, they become exceedingly painful, and are productive of much suff'ering. In these, the tumours are tense, hard, and painful, the patient being unable to walk, sit, or ride' the only grateful position being the horizontal one. Should he, during the continuance of the inflammation, be obliged to pass a motion, the distress is extreme. With these symptoms there is more or less fever, and even sometimes dehmim. Occasionally one or more of the tumours pour out blood, which gives relief. The treatment of haemorrhoids consists in the use of leeches and fomentations to the part, laxative medicines, and diluent drinks. In the more chronic form, the use of some astringent ointment is beneficial. Some practise596 SURGERY. tlie opening of the heemorrhoidal tumours with the point of the lancet: when hsemorrhoidal tumours are productive of much suffering and inconvenience their removal becomes necessary. This may be accomplished by excision or by the ligature. It is sufficient in general to remove one, the largest and most painful, of the cluster. If excision be preferred, the tumour is transfixed with a tenaculum, and at once cut away with, a knife or scissors. If the ligature be deemed preferable, it is applied round the neck of the tumour, which soon sloughs away. Where the neck of the tumour is badly marked, a double ligature becomes necessary; this is applied by transfixing the hsemorrhoid with a needle armed with a double ligature, one being tied on each side of the tumour. Excision is objected to by many, in consequence of the heemorrhage which so fre- quently follows its adoption. Should this ensue, the bleeding may take place into the rectum, which becomes filled with blood. The patient now conceives that he has a motion to pass, and, discharging the blood, frequently faints from exhaustion. When it can be practised, the bleeding vessel should be sought after, and secured with a ligature; if this cannot be accomplished, the appUca- lion of cold or astringent lotions may stop the discharge. When this does not succeed, plugging the rectum should be had recourse to. This is accomplished by first passing a large fold of softened bladder, lint, or hnen into the intes- tine, so as to form, when opened, a conical cavity, into which a sufficient quantity of lint is introduced to distend the bowel, and compress the bleeding vessel. Ligature is objectionable from its inducing symptoms of peritonitis. Whenever these appear, the ligature should be at once removed. There is much difference of opinion as to the best method of removing haemorrhoids: perhaps excision is best adapted to external, the hgature to internal piles. Hajmorrhoids are a frequent source of inflammation and abscess at the side of the rectum, which almost invariably degenerates into a fistula. In unhealthy subjects, they often induce an erysipelatous inflammation of the sur- rounding cellular tissue and integuments, terminating, if not properly treated, in extensive sloughiug and isolation of the lower part of the rectum. The causes which giveDISEASES OF THE RECTUM AXD ANUS. 59/ rise to baemorrhoids are numerous; thus, confined or too relaxed bowels, an indurated state of tbe liver, dropsy, pregnancy, and diseased lungs, and exposure to cold, bave been known to produce tbem. Condylomatous tumours sometimes form around tbe anus. Tbey are removed by tbe use of astringent washes by ligature, or excision. ' Painful Jissures, particularly described by Dupuytren occasionally occupy the margin of the anus. In' mild cases, the belladonna ointment will be of service • in the more obstinate, the cutting through the fissures becomes necessary with division of the sphincter ani. Fistula in ano is a sinuous canal or cavity at the side of the anus and lower part of the rectum, which opens either into the rectum, or externally, or in both situations and discharges purulent matter. FistiUEe are the result of abscesses formed in the cellular tissue around the rectum and which, having burst or been opened, are prevented from healing by the action and irritation of the sphincter am, and thus becomes sinuous or fistulous. Fistulie in ano are divided into the comj)lete and incomplete. The com into the rectum, the other externally. The incomplete are those which possess but one aperture or outlet, and are subdivided into the blind external and bUnd internal The blind external fistula is that which opens externally only the bhnd interna], that which communicates with the in' terior of the rectum without having any external openin"" The symptoms of a fistula are a feeling of soreness in, uneasiness in the anus and rectum, espedally when pJss ing the f^ces at which time much pain is often felt^ an u-regular discharge of purulent matter, sometimes thin nnS fetid, but often perfectly healthy, wbich stdns he '^^^^ and is sometimes mixed with blood; there S oftpn • ! ' bility of the neck of tbe 'bladder. There J T '"'^'^ s.onally some febrile symptoms p esent i the 1 but often the disease a^^ars to^be feet ^ locn "'i"' t.on, not exciting any general disturbance in ^.nv appearing to be rather beneficial thnn'oH^p ^ ""'1 arresting the progress of some o^Snic i.f f'' i^",'^ the patient bad been previouslyCbjecf ^"1 " ^ IS often observed in phthisical pat en s ^598 SURGBBY. On examining a fistula, the external orifice, if it should exist, will be found small, circular, and possessing a shghtly fungous appearance, and is in general concealed in the folds of the anus; its circumference is mdurated. There is some, but not much pain on pressure. The dis- charge generally comes on at intervals, that is, the canal, from its opening being partially closed, becomes filled with matter, and, on evacuating tbe fseces, this is suddenly discharged. By introducing a probe the extent and direc- tion of °the fistula will be ascertained; generally it reaches to a short distance within the anus; sometimes it extends to a considerable distance along the side of the rectum. Ihe chief cause of the continuance of fistula in ano is the irrita- tion kept up in it by the action of the sphincter am, and consequently the division of the fibres of this muscle is necessary in the operation for the cure. The treatment of fistula in ano consists in laying open the canal, so that its cavity may communicate throughout with that of the rectum. The operation is performed as follows: Place the patient, if a male, on his hands and knees, if a female, on her side; introduce a probe, so as to ascertain the extent and direction of the fistula with- draw this, and pass up the P^obe-pointed bistoury, having previously introduced the forefinger of the left hand into the {•ectum, push tbe extremity of the bistoury into the mtestine, and on It place the end of the finger in the rectum; draw down the nstrument thus supported cutting through the waU of the sinus into the rectum. The cavity of he sinus being laid open is to be filled with dossils ot lint, pas ed iZlt from^he rectum, so as to prevent union of the edo-es of the wound, and cause the cavity to fiU up by granulations; If there should be a number of sinuses, fhey are to be laid into one. In some cases, where the fistula extends high up, we cut through the ower part of the sinus only: the fistula will afterwards heal up. n consequence of the peritoneum on the anterior, he hsemorrhoidal arteries on the posterior surface of e rectum, it is not safe to cut higher than as far as tbe fineer will reach without difliculty. Abscesses connected with diseased spine, or sacrum, or scirrhous contraction of the rectum, phthisis puln^o^f or other organic afiections, sometimes burst by the side ofDISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 599 the anus: such cases should he distinguished from a true fistula, as any operation on them is likely to ago-ravate the more serious affection, and will not succeed" although properly performed. When we are about to operate on a fistula, with but one opening, a second is to be made either with the lancet externally, or with the point of the bistoury into the rectum. If the fistula should be slow in heahng, the use of stimulating appHcations will be found beneficial. Prolapsus ani is most frequently met with in children. It consists of an eversion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, caused by a relaxed condition of it. The protru- sion forms a large circular tumour, of a red, deep red or purple colour. It should be at once returned, by makine gentle pressure on the part, for if aUowed to remain out sloughing may be produced by the constriction of the anus on the tumour. The use of cold astringent lotions a generous diet, and the various preparations of bark and iron, will sometimes prevent a recurrence of the disease When these remedies are ineffectual, and the disease be- comes troublesome, one or more folds of the mucous mem- brane of the rectum may be removed by the scissors; the contraction of the wounds, thus caused, will remove tue atiection in a great majority of cases. StricfMre of the rectum is divided into the spasmodic W maTw"" n^, °J '^'^ i« denied by many. Of the permanent there are two species the simple permanent stricture, and the scirrhous or scirrho- contracted rectum. ^i-umo Simple permanent stricture is caused by an effusion of lymph into the submucous cellular tissue! follow d bv a gradual contraction and condensation of the mucous membrane. It most frequently appears in ad It, T i -need life, and in females ofLf/ th^nl ma £ ^The" symptoms are those which we should conce v/n V duced by a mechanical obstruction to tre pass 'e Zhe" feces VIZ., an irregular state of the bowels ?! f- constipated, sometimes relaxed, attended tifb r"!'' pains in the abdomen. The faeces aro I }■ '"i^'^^ according to the nature of the TtZZ anc T T than natural, unless when the di a ' is silt, " upper part of the intestine, then tSlLrr ilati^g600 SUEGEUY. in the lower part or cul-de-sac, may be expelled of the proper form and size. There is Utile or no pain attendmg the disease, except when passing the faeces, or immediately after, and this only in the advanced condition of the affec- tion.' Some obscure dull pains are usually felt about the lower part of the pelvis, and down the thighs; and not unfrequently an irritable state of the neck of the bladder exists. In this state of things the constitution begms to participate, the appetite becomes impaired, and general symptoms of dyspepsia, attended with some fever, present themselves. On examination of the intestine, the stricture will be felt by the finger, a short distance, in general, above the anus; in some cases it may be situated higher up, when the bougie will be required to ascertain its ex- istence. „ , , ... ^ The treatment of stricture of the rectum consists m the removal of the stricture, as far as is possible, by the occa- sional use of the rectum-bougie, in the administration ot opiates, either by the mouth or per anum, to reheve the irritability of the parts, or in the exhibition of such medi- cines, internally, as are best suited to the relief of the symptoms present. When the bowels are obstinately constipated, much benefit will be derived from the admi- nistration of emollient enemata, passed into the intestine, above the stricture, by means of the gum-elastic tube. In the more advanced stages of the disease the mucous membrane, near to the stricture, becomes ulcerated, and a thin sanious matter, mixed occasionally with blood, is discharged per anum. Stricture of the rectum proves fatal, bv inducing peritonitis, by the giving way of the intestine above the stricture, or by the constitutional irn- tation which it causes. . . c ■A^^■^^ Scirrho-contracted rectum. This is a more formidable disease than the preceding: it occurs, in general, m ad- vanced life. In addition to the symptoms we ha^e men- tioned, as characteristic of simple permanent stricture, there are the local and constitutional evidences of a can- cerous disease. Thus, the patient complams of sex ere, lancinating pains in the part, extending through the pelvic viscera and from the thigh; there is a tbui ichorous mat- ter discharged per anum, mixed occasionally with blood. The constitution, too, presents all the characters of a can-601 FRACTURES. cerous diathesis. When the scirrhus degenerates into open cancer, all the symptoms become aggravated, a communication is frequently established between the rec- tum and bladder in the male, between the intestine and the vagina in the female, and thus the faeces and urine are discharged together. The patient soon sinks beneath the weight of his sufferings. But little can be done towards the removal of a scirrhus of the rectum; much, however, may be effected, in relieving the patient's suffering, by means of opiates. The use of the bougie is nearly impracticable, from the irritation it produces, especially in the ulcerated state of the disease. As a scirrhus of the rectum almost mvanably commences in the lower part of the intestine, immediately within the anus, some have suggested its ex- tirpation. We question if the success of the operation will ever be such as to justify its adoption. Polypous tumours occasionally form in the rectum in the young subject. They are removed by ligature without dif- ficulty. ON ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. ON FRACTURES. Fracture is a solution of continuity in one or more bones, produced by some force or violence extraneous to the bone itself. Fractures are divided into simple, com- pound, comminuted, and complicated. Simple fractures are those in which the fracture does not communicate with the external air. They are by far the most frequent in civU life, and in general affect the shaft of the long bones, this part being, from the mechanism ot the osseous structure, more exposed to the effects of shocks, or other violence, than the extremities of the bones and being composed chiefly of the compact tissue. S flat bones, as of the head and pelvis, are also sometimes fractured and generally by direct violence. SluscX exertion frequently causes fracture, as of the pa eUa "le cranon process, and os calcis. pateiia, oJe- The general symptoms of a fracture are deformity of the hmb, consisting of swelling, caused either by tTe Lerlap-SCRGERIt. 602 ping of the bones, or effusion of blood, lymph, or serum into the cellular tissue; shortening produced at the time of the accident, or soon after, by the retraction of the lower part of the limb, by the spasmodic contraction of the muscles; crepitus, or a grating sound, when the ends of the fractured bones are moved one against the other; complete or partial loss of power; a certain degree of pain, aggravated by motion; a capability on the part ot the surgeon to remove the deformity by moderate exten- sion, on relaxing which the deformity is reproduced. If then we select a particular bone, let us say the shaft oi the femur as an example for the rest, we shall find aU the preceding symptoms. The deformity caused by the over- lapping or projection of the bones renders fractures, especially of the superficial bones, at once evident either to the eye, or to the finger passed along m the direction of the bone, supposed to be fractured. The melling of the limb seldom sets in immediately after the occurrence of the accident, unless when a large artery lias been rup- tured either by the ends of the bone or by the violence, in which case the blood is injected into the ceUular tissue amongst the muscles, and sometimes immediately beneath the integuments; in this latter case the skin presents a dark livid appearance, and, when vesications form on the surface, as occasionally happens in simple fracture, is not nnfrequently mistalcen for mortification. The diagnosis, however, is simple, as the livid colour comes on immedi- ately after the injury, the parts retain their temperature and sensibility, and the vesications are tense, circular m shape, and filled with a straw-coloured, transparent fluid, in which they diifer from the vesications of gangrene. The extent of the shortening of the hmb is variable de- pending on the nature of the fracture and the power of the muscles attached to the bone. In some c^/^^there may be no shortening, as m cases of transverse fracture, unat- tended with displacement of the fractured extremities. In no case of fracture, excepting that of the olecranon and neck of the scapula, have we lengthening of the extremity. • In endeavouring to ascertain whether the juj^^-ed li^^b is shorter or not than the other, we should careful that the patient Ues perfectly straight, as otherwise the i mb mav appear to be shorter when such is not the case: thisTEACTURES. 603 mistake is more likely to take place in the lower than in the upper extremities. Crepitus is sometimes indistinct, as in fracture of the lower extremity of the fibula or ra- dius, where the bone is fixed by ligaments, and is sup- ported by the opposed boue, or in fracture of the neck of the femur, where the fracture lies deep, and the bones can with difficulty be brought into apposition. When examining for a fracture near to an articulation, we should be careful not to confound crepitation with the grating of the synovia in the interior of the joint. The loss of power of the limb is a necessary consequence of the muscles having lost the resistance of the bone, so necessary for their action, independently of the injury done to the soft parts themselves by the violence that has caused the fracture. The extent of pai7i varies much in fractures. In gene- ral It is not severe unless when the limb is moved. The capability of reducing the deformity by means of extension, and its return when the extending force ceases torms an important distinguishing feature between frac- tures and dislocations. A bone may be fractured in the transverse, oblique, or longitudinal direction. The last js seldom met with, and only when the violence is applied directly to the bone as m gun-shot wounds. It is always desirable to ascertain a prion whether the fracture is transverse or oblique as t«™er, when placed in apposition, is kept so without much difficulty, whereas the latter is liable to displacement at each contraction of the muscles, or in any motion of the parts : hence much more care is requisite after such. A dif terent hue of treatment is required in the oblique than in tfie transverse fracture. In treating the oblique fracture the position of the limb is of much consequenc ; it should be placed in such a position, if possible, as will relaftl e principal muscles connected with the fractured bones In the ransverse fracture the straight position is often 'l ^"^^^^^^ the muscles support h^ bones and they are m this position less under the infl ence of active muscular contraction nPr^w "'^ '^^P^^'^d, 1st, in such a man- ner that the upper overlaps the lower portion of the frac- ture; this IS the most frequent displacement, and occursSURGERY. 604 from the muscles acting principally on tlie lower part of the limb: 2dly, so that the lower overlaps the upper frac- ture; this is rare: 3dly, in the lateral direction; that is when one fractured portion is thrown to the side of the other; 4thly, so as to form an angle sahent either ante- riorly or posteriorly; 5thly, in regard to the circumference of the fractured bone; that is, when the bone is rotated on its own axis, so that the lateral and posterior surface of one part may correspond to the anterior surface of the other portion. TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. The treatment of fractures is comparatively simple; it consists in restoring the bones to their natural position, securing them in that state, and finally obviating or re- moving any unpleasant symptoms that may be likely to occur, or have chiefly taken place. It is only when the bones have undergone displacement that the surgeon is required to disturb the limb. When this has taken place the bones are replaced in situ by means of extension, counter-extension, and coaptation or setting. Before resorting to extension, the limb should be placed in such a situation, if possible, as to relax the principal muscles, as our object is to avoid, as much as we possibly can, the resistance afforded by muscular contraction, which forms the principal impediment to our success. The extending force should now be applied to the lower part of the limb, avoiding the immediate seat of the fracture, and the limb drawn in the direction of the bone fractured, or as near this as the displacement of the fractured portion will admit of. The counter-extension, on the contrary, is applied above the fracture, and consists merely in passive resist- ance to extending power. The extension should be made cautiously and gradually, as otherwise the muscles will be thrown into spasmodic contraction, and may baffle all our attempts. When any difficulty is experienced froni the violent contraction of the muscles, the abstraction of blood from the arm, or the administration of tartar emetic will assist our efforts much; it is seldom that these reme- dies are required. As soon as the fractured portions are thus brought into apposition, they are to be placed in their natural position.TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. 605 and retained so by means of bandages, compresses, and splints. Suppose, then, that we are treating a fracture of the centre of the femur in the extended position, and that coaptation has been effected. A mattress, or other re- sisting bed, is to be prepared, on which the patient is placed in the recumbent posture; indeed, it were better to place the patient on the bed previously to our having recourse to extension and counter-extension, as thus any danger of disturbing the fractured portions when once they have been placed in apposition, by moving him from one bed to the other, is avoided. A many-tailed bandage being wet with cold evaporating lotion, such as the lotio muriatis ammonia, or the lotio acetatis plumbi, or cold water, is to be passed beneath the thigh, and then carefully appUed round the hmb from below upwards, the ends of each bandage overlapped in front, and the lower bandage overlapped by that immediately above; the highest bandage IS, lastly, to be secured with pins. Compresses wet m the lotion are now to be applied so as to form a uniform surface for the pressure of the splints, and to protect the projecting eminences of the bones The sphnts, one on either side, one in front, and one along the back of the limb if thought necessary, are now to he applied, and secured by means of tapes passed around the hmb. The inner lateral splint should extend from the pudenda, the outer one from the crest of the iUum to a short distance below the foot, and be provided here with a foot-piece to which the foot is to be attached, so as to prevent the rotation of the leg, and the consequent dis- placement of the fracture. AU parts of the spl nts likelv to press on any portion of the hmb or trunk shodd te covered with portions of bandage, or the pressure btne off by means of compresses. ^ AZSt: ktriexed s'ts ^o' /'^ '^^''^ ^^^-^ angle with the th^h, o" tl g o^ndrtha? T'' ''f' being relaxed, dispL'ement ofThe bo„es L\^A"f.r to take place. This position is objeXn^^^^^^^ ^'^'^^ unable to compare the relative leZ ne^u '-''' T "^'^ the sound limb, which should Sy t tneTom W to time in the treatment of every^racture When tl606 SURGERY. fracture is oblique the flexed position is to be preferred, as the weight of the leg acts as a counter-extending force, and prevents the displacement of the fracture. Mr. Pott's plan of placing the Umb on the outer side is now nearly, if not wholly, abandoned. The after-treatment of fractures consists in the occa- sional opening of the bandages to ascertain the condition of the limb, and in applying such remedies as may be considered necessary. Should any of the bandages have become soiled, new ones may be substituted by attaching them to the ends of those about to be removed, and drawing them one by one gently beneath the Umb. If inflammation have set in, leeches may be apphed, and the antiphlogistic regimen adopted. The bandages and splints are to be replaced for a few days longer, and so on, until the fracture is found to have united. The period for the accompHshment varies according to the bones broken, the age and constitution of tbe patient. Thus the bones of the lower extremities in the healthy state seldom unite sooner than five or six weeks, whereas those of the upper extremity take but three or four weeks. The bones of the infant unite in a week or ten days, whilst those of the old subject take from six to eight weeks to become consoHdated. When there is any dis- ease of the constitution the union may be protracted to a much longer period. Amongst the bones which unite soonest, are the ribs, clavicle, and lower jaw. The patient remains in general from four to six weeks after the fracture has united before he recovers the use of the limb, in conse- quence of the effusion that has taken place into the limb, the stiffness of the articulations, and the weakness of the muscles. The use of liniments and bathing with cold water wiU be found to strengthen the part and expedite reunion. When moderate attention has been paid, the surgeon meets with but little trouble in the treatment of simple fracture, nevertheless some unpleasant symptoms occasionally occur, viz. Yirsi.—Inflammation of the limb as first alluded to. ^QConAly. —Threatening mortification. This only takes place when the inflammation symptoms have not met with attention, or when tiie bandages have been tied too tightly on the Umb, or when this has become swollenTREATMENT OF FEACTUEES. 607 after their application and the surgeon has disregarded or overlooked the circumstance. In such cases the bandages should be at once loosened, and soothing remedies applied to the limb, aided by the usual means resorted to for the prevention of gangrene. Thirdly.—So7-es forming on the limb; these are produced by the pressure of a bandage or a splint, by the limb resting on a particular part, and are often exceedingly troublesome, degenerating into ill-conditioned ulcers, very difficult to heal. On their first appearance all pressure should be at once re- moved, and, if necessary, the position of the limb changed; the sores may be protected by the emplastrum saponis ; greasy applications are not recommended, as they are liable to produce excoriations of the parts. ^omi\Ay.—Non-union. This we shall treat of hereafter. It is always a judicious plan to change the position of the limb at least once during the treatment of the simple frac- ture, so as to give relief to the patient and prevent anchy- losis of the articulation, which will be still further pre- vented by gentle motion of the joint. The tnode of union in simple fracture is analogous to union by the first intention in the softer parts, and differs but little from the manner in which bone is originally formed. Immediately after the fracture has taken place a quantity of blood is poured out into the surrounding cellular tissue by the vessels of the bone, periosteum, and adjoining structures; inflammation now sets in, the perios- teum becomes thickened, increased in vascularity, and is easily detached from the bone, the ends of the bone become rounded off, increased in size and vascularity, and become softened. By this time the blood originally effused is absorbed, and new lymph is poured out from the bone periosteum, and surrounding soft parts around the fracture' Ihis lymph becomes united with the ends of the bone and thus acts as a bond of union between them. The lymph soon becomes organised, vessels are formed in it which pour out the bony matter into its interstices, and thus os- sification proceeds until complete union has taken place nnTwnlf ■^^''''f "ood first effused, and ^w'' .f^'^'J^'^ deposition of the ossific matter. We consider this to be incorrect, since, on ex- amining a fracture that has been recently united, we find608 STJRGEUY. much thickening of the periosteum and surrounding soft parts, the bone is larger than natural, more rounded, and but indistinctly marked with the usual eminences and de- pressions, and its medullary canal is closed. After some time the canal is re-established, and the bone differs but little from its natural state. It should be carefully borne in mind that when inflammation of the limb has taken place, this should be removed by the apphcation of leeches, cold lotions, and other means, before we resort to the use of splints and bandages; the limb should be placed during this treatment in the position easiest to the parts, and kept as quiet as possible. Having now laid down the great prin- ciples to be observed in the treatment of fractures, we pro- ceed to the consideration of particular fractures. Fractures of the ossa nasi are always caused by direct violence: the displacement may be trifling, or so great as to produce considerable deformity. Treatment: The bones are to be placed in situ by means of a female silver ca- theter, or other resisting instrument, passed into the nasal cavity, and supported by compresses of hnt, or an elastic tube introduced into the nose. Some consider that these bodies are not required, and are productive of irritation, and therefore recommend the fracture to be healed with- out any artificial support. It occasionally happens that the crista galli of the ethmoid bone is driven upwards into the brain by the violence that has caused the fracture. It is possible that the crista galli may be drawn down by means of a forceps introduced into the nose. Any symptoms of inflammation of the brain or its mem- branes should be actively treated. Fractures of the loioerjaw.—This bone is always broken by direct violence. It may be fractured at the symphysis, or the body, or the ramus. Fracture at the symphysis is exceedingly rare. This bone is most frequently fractured in the body immediately in front of the insertion of the masseter muscle. The fracture is in general easily recog- nized by passing the fingers along the base of the jaw ex- ternally and tlie mouth internally. Crepitus may also be felt by moving the fractured portions one against the other. Treatment: The bone being placed in situ, a flat piece of cork is to be placed betv^een the jaws of the afi'ected side; a pasteboard sphnt, or one made with gutta percha, pre-609 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. viously moistened in vinegar and water, is now to be moulded on the part externally, and retained by means of a bandage of four taUs, the centre of which rests against the chin, while the tails are brought round the top and back of the head, and fastened to the patient's nightcap. All motions of the jaws is to be strictly prohibited. The displacement in the fracture is frequently occasioned by muscular contraction, the masseter muscle raising the angle whilst the digastric and other muscles depress the symphysis. The ramus of the jaw, being covered by the masseter, is rarely fractured. When broken here, this muscle acting as a splint prevents much displacement. It IS treated as the foregoing. Fractures of the lower jaw, particularly where it has been broken in two places, are frequently followed by necrosis, and, where much violence has been used, by abscesses in the neck and fauces. In fracture of the jaw, if any of the teeth be quite loose. It IS better to extract them at once, but much caution is re- quired in so doing. Fractures of the vertebra will be considered in treating or the spine. Fracture of the sternum.—llhxs, bone is fractured only by direct violence; but httle can be done by local appli- cation. A bandage passed round the chest, so as to moderate the action of the ribs, wich a small compress directly in front of the bone may be found useful. The thoracic viscera in such injuries call for our best attention Fracture of the The middle and lower ribs are most frequently broken, being the most exposed, and sup- ported posteriorly against the spine, and in front bv the sternum. The first rib is protected by the clavicle, the last two escape fracture by their great elasticity, not beine fixed in front. The ribs are in general fractured abmu their centre, near their greatest convexity. The frar tured portions are displaced either internally or exter- nally, ^-h.ch may be ascertained by passing the finiJs along the rib from the spine forwards, and by'the crepft,? which IS frequently manifest in each act of respii-atio of he patient, or on coughing. These fractuii T ,a.e^ by placing a p.cce of soap-plaster over the parts and then surrounding the chest with a broad bandage o as to ,x strain, or at least moderate, the action of 'the rL, the" 26 §610 SUEGEEY. patient being obliged to respire by the diaphragm, and abdominal muscles. Fractures of the ribs are sometimes serious from a spicula of bone being pressed inwards and wounding the lung, thus giving rise to emphysema and in- flammation of this organ, if not actively treated. In fracture of the ribs, if the force be applied directly, the broken ends of the ribs may perforate the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis, and may thus give nse to emphysema. The best evidence of the lung being penetrated is cough, with bloody sputa. In this case air may accumulate in the bag of the pleura, and so much compress the lung and pericardium, that it may be necessary to puncture the afi'ected side with a trocar and canula, to allow the escape of the pent-up air. Such cases are extremely rare. When emphysema supervenes, the treatment is the same as in ordinary fracture, for the air which has escaped into the cellular tissue will soon be absorbed and disappear under the influence of the bandages; but it will often be desirable to take a httle blood from the arm, to obviate inflammation. Fracture of the hones of the ^eZ^^is.—These bones are occasionally fractured, and in general, by direct violence. The treatment consists in supporting the bones by means of compresses and bandages judiciously apphed, and en- joining perfect rest at the same time. These fractures are very dangerous, from the mischief done to the soft parts, especially the bladder. , ^ , j • Fracture of the /mM?'.—The femur may be fractured in any part of its extent, but is most frequently broken at its middle third or in its neck. -j j • f Fractures of the neck of the femur are divided mto those which are internal to the capsular ligament, and those which are partly loithin partly toithout the hga- ment. There is no such thing as fracture of the neck of the femur completely beyond the capsular hgament as the ligament extends anteriorly as far as the neck ot the femur itself. The bone may be broken posteriorly; external to (or without) the capsular hgament; but it the fracture extend anteriorly beyond the ligament it must pass through the trochanter major. Fractures ot the neck of the femur are very frequent at the advanced period of life, in consequence of the anatomical changesTREATMENT OF FRACTUEES. 611 which take place in it at this age; it is still more frequent in the female than in the male, as the neck of the femur is more transverse and longer than in the former. The neck of the femur is in general fractured by falls on the trochanter major, or by the foot coming violently against the ground, or in slipping off the curb-stone in walking. The symptoms of the fracture are best observed when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture. The injured limb will then be found to be from one to two inches shorter than the other, having been retracted by the action of the gluteal muscles ; the heel rests against the fossa between the internal malleolus and os calcis of the opposite foot; the foot is everted from the greater power of the rotators outwards and the natural inclina- tion of the limb to this position; the patella is higher up than the opposite one, and the hip is less prominent than in the natural state. The patient is wholly unable to raise the limb from the bed. If the surgeon now places his hand on the trochanter, and extension be made by an assistant from the foot, and the Umb rotated, as soon as It IS brought to the same length with the other, so as to bnng the fractured portions in contact, crepitus is at once distmguished. Rotation inwards and abduction are par- ticularly painful. In rotating the femur the bone is ob- served to turn upon its own axis, the trochanter major not as m Its natural state, describing a semicircular motion' fc)0 soon as the extending force is removed, the limb is again retracted. In general, fracture of the neck of the temur is easy of diagnosis, but this is not always the case as the bone may be fractured without presenting the symptoms mentioned; thus shortening is not always present and m many cases does not occur for some days after the receipt of the injury, arising most pro- bably from the bones being impacted one into the other or some spiculje retaining their hold; the foot may be inverted, but this is rare, or it may be in any position, in which it is accidentally placed- tl L^s often too, great swelling about the^jo^i , and ^ff sion into the synovial sac. which obscure 'the appearances of the parts, and render crepitus indistinct Vl^^^'^^ncc^ ot Dislocation of the hip-joint on the dorsum of the ilium or into the sciatic notch, and contusion of the soft pam612 SUEGEHY. about the articulation, are most likely to be mistaken for fracture of the neck of the femur. The treatment of fracture of the neck of the femur con- sists in placing the limb on the double inclined plane, the knee being flexed, and keeping the part at rest. At the end of six weeks partial motion may be permitted, and at the expiration of the seventh or eighth week the patient may be allowed to get up, and walk on crutches with the limb supported by a sling. Many surgeons prefer the use of the long splint in these fractures, as they are better able to ensure the more perfect apposition of the fractured parts. In old persons, many adopt the plan of Sir A. Cooper, viz., to use no splintg, but to keep the patients in bed, with a pillow under the knees for about three weeks, and then to aUow them, by the aid of crutches, to move about, and thereby induce more vascular action favorable to union, and at the same time obviating bed sores, to which old persons are very liable if long kept in the same position. Bony union does not take place in fractures of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament; the union is ligamentous, and formed by bands of Hgamentary structure passing from the fractured portions to the inner surface of the capsular ligament, aided by thickening of this ligament, and of the synovial membrane. The causes of the non-ossific union are found to be the advanced age of the patient,— the difficulty of keeping the bones in apposition, and the deficient vitality of the head of the bone, which, when the neck is fractured, is supplied with vessels through the liga- raentum teres only. Fracture of the neck of the femur, partly without the capsular ligament, takes place in younger subjects, is caused by greater violence, and is attended with more pain ; it is indicated by the greater shortening of the liuib (Sir A. Cooper states the reverse, that given is the generally received opinion,) and the history of the case. Its treatment is similar to that for fractures without the capsule. Ossific union may take place. Dessault, Boyer, and other surgeons have recommended various instruments for maintaining a state of permanent extension during the treatment of fractures of the neck of the femur: they are now seldom used, as the patient is generally unable to bear this operation for any length of time.613 TREATMENT Of FRACTURES. Fractures of the femur through the trochanter major are produced by direct violence. Symptoins: Pain, crepitus, loss of motion, and eversion of the foot. Treatment: Place the Hmb on the double inclined plane, and support the part ■with compresses, bandages, and splints. Fracture of the femur in its upper third.—Causes : Direct or indirect violence. General Symptoms: The upper fractured portion is here drawn forward by the action of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles. Treatment: Employ the long spHnt or place the limb on the double in- clined plane, the patient nearly in the sitting posture, the hip-joint flexed, and the knee extended so as to relax the psoas and iliacus internus muscles; assist the position by means of compresses and splints judiciously applied. Fractures of the lower third of the femur are treated by the long splint or the double inclined plane, with the knee-jomt flexed to prevent the action of the heads of the gastrocnemius on the lower fractured portion. Fractures of either condyle of the femur extending to the knee-joint are treated in the straight position in order that the upper surface of the tibia may act as a support to the fracture. A pasteboard splint, moulded on the joint supported by common splints and bandages, should be made use of. Passive motion should be commenced at the end of the fifth week. Fractures of the patella.—The transverse fracture of the patella is the most frequent. It is generally produced by the spasmodic action of the rectus muscle, when the knee is in the semiflexed position, the patella being then broken across the lower end of the femur. The patella may be also fractured transversely by direct violence, as nL r?i? ^l/"'Pioms: Pain and swelling about the joint separation of the broken bones the superior being drawn upwards by the rectus muscle and mabdity of extending the limb.' Treatment .- Place hmb m he extended position, flexing the hip-joint so as to relax the rectus femoris, and allow of the uppe portion being drawn down and placed in annosit nn ^ lower This being accomplished, a leathe belt is b.fck !h round the thigh above the upp;r portion nf. ^"f^"'^ each side of which a leather ^ 7 ?^ ^?''^' ^'""^ passes to n hrnnVl 1 u ?^ providcd with buckles passes to a broad belt beneath the knee, and is thusSURGERY. 614 secured. By these means, aided by compresses and bandages, if necessary, permanent extension is maintained for five weeks, after which period passive motion is to be resorted to. Many surgeons now use no straps, but simple extension of the limb, and then allow sUght motion for six to eight weeks, and, in ordinary language, make a letter V of the patient. A transverse fracture of the patella unites generally, if not always, by ligament; it should be our object to have this ligament as short as possible, as the future use of the limb is proportionate to its length. Longitudinal fractures of the patella are caused by direct violence. They are treated by placing the limb m the extended position, passing a roller round the joint, and then budding over this a laced knee-cap. This fracture unites by bone. Fractures of the tibia in its upper two thirds are generally transverse. There is nothing peculiar in their history, symptoms, or treatment. M'Intyre's or Liston's splint is the best instrument to use in their treatment. Fracture of the lower third of the tibia.—The tibia is most frequently broken in its lower third near the junc- tion of this with the middle third, the bone bemg here smaller than elsewhere, more superficial, and unsupported by the beUies of the muscles. The fracture is almost always oblique, running downwards and inwards, and hence is frequently converted into a compound fracture from the patient attempting to stand or wallc on the limb after the accident, and thus protruding the point of the upper portion of the bone through the skin. The fracture is at once recognised from the superficial coverings of the bone. The fibula is in general fractured at the same time. Fracture of the lower thh-d of the tibia is best treated on the double inchned plane, with the leg in a slightly depending position, so as to relax the gastrocuemii muscles. In these fractures, Mr. Greenough's cradle, or Mr. Luke's, is of great comfort to the patient, for thereby he can move freely in bed without disturbance of the limb. Fracture of the fibula.—Hhe fibula may be fractured in any part of its extent. In general it is broken about an inch and a half above the external malleolus. This is usually known by the name of Pott's fracture of the fibula, or Pott's dislocation of the ankle, being often accompanied615 TREATMENT OF FRACTUKES. by a partial dislocation of the lower extremity of the tibia in- wards, and of the foot outwards. This fracture may be caused by direct violence, or by violent strains of the leg, as in wrest- ling, leaping, &c. On examining the limb some swelling will be found caused by effusion of blood into the cellular tissue, the foot is everted, that is, the inner margin is turned downwards whilst the outward margin is raised, the internal malleolus projects more than in the natural state in consequence of being partially dislocated inwards, so that its outer part rests on the inner margin of the astra- galus. This deformity of the foot results from the obliquity of the upper surface of the astragalus, which sloping in- wards favours the descent of the tibia in this direction aided by the spasmodic contraction of the peroneous longus muscle, which elevates the outer whilst it de- presses the inner edge of the foot. Corresponding to the seat of fracture, a depression is in general observed, produced by the falling inwards of the fractured portion of the bone, the external malleolus being thrown outwards at the same time. On passing the fingers along the fibula the irregularity of the fracture is manifest. Crepitus is with difficulty distinguished in this fracture, from the lower portion being so firmly fixed by the ligaments of the ankle-joint. Extension and counter-extension having been made, so as to reduce the displacement of the tibia and place the fractured bones in apposition, the limb is to be laid on the outer side with the knee flexed, the foot at right angles with the leg, and the heel brought towards the opposite limb, the patient being placed on the side cor- responding to the injured limb. Bandages and splints are to be appUed, and the fracture treated as already laid down in discussing fractures generally. This was the plan of treatment recommended by Mr. Pott. Dupuytren has more recently advised the fracture to be treated by placing a sphnt on the inner side of the limb, extending from above the knee to a short distance below the ankle ■ this 18 to be attached by means of bandages applied one above the other below the knee-joint, a long cushion being inter- posed between the leg and the splint; the foot is now to be twisted inwards and made fast in this position to the ower extremi y of the splint. The object of this plan of treatment ,s, by putting the external lateral ligament on616 SURGERY, the stretch, to draw inwards the external malleolus, and force outwards the upper end of the lower fractured por- tion; for, if this be not attended to, the fibula will become consolidated with the tibia, and thus the mortice-shaped cavity between these bones rendered too wide for the astra- galus ; the joint is thus rendered loose and insecure, and the patient is constantly exposed to accidents of the articu- lation. Some surgeons employ a splint on each side, with a support for the foot. Fracture of the clavicle.—This bone is frequently frac- tured in consequence of its being so much exposed, and having to support the weight of the shoulder and arm. It is most frequently fractured near its centre, where the bone is weakest, least supported by muscles, and suffers most from the two arches, of which the bone is composed, meeting here. The injury is produced by falls on the shoulder, or by direct violence; it is at once recognised by the projection of the fractured portions beneath the skin. The fracture is in general oblique, running down- wards and inwards; it is always attended with much dis- placement, as the shoulder, falling inwards from wanting the support of the clavicle, drags the outer portion with it, which is thus overlapped by the inner or sternal portion. The treatment of this fracture resolves itself into the raising of the shoulder, and with it the displaced portion of the clavicle to a level with the sternal portion, and re- taining them so by means of artificial support. This is best effected by means of a pad placed in the axilla, and a bandage passing round the trunk and injured extremity in such a manner as to keep back the weight of the shoulder and support the arm. The bandage, from its crossing in front and behind the patient, is named the figure-of-eight bandage. Different instruments have been recommended for the treatment of this fracture, but all act on the same principle as the bandage. That recommended by Sir A. Cooper is perhaps the best. The acromial end of the clavicle, when fractured, pre- sents little deformity from this portion of the bone being confined by ligaments. Fractures of the scajmla are extremely rare. Tlie neck of the bone is sometimes broken in falls on the shoulder. In this accident the arm droops, and presents many of theTKEATMEKT OF FRACTURES. 617 characters of dislocation of the humerus into the axilla ; it is distinguished from the latter by the crepitus recog- nised on placing the fingers on the coracoid process, and at the same time moving the arm; by the defor- niity being removed on pressing the arm upwards, and its immediate return on withdrawing the pressure. This fracture is treated as fractures of the clavicle, and the principal objects we have in view are the support and quietude of the arm. The English surgeons disapprove of the pad m the axiUa, while the French recommend it. The union is generally by hgament. The fracture traverses the scapula behind the coracoid process. The acromion process is sometimes broken by falls on the shoulder; it is treated as the preceding, and unites also generally by hga- ment. The scapula itself may be broken, but this is ex- ceedmgly rare. Fractures of the humerus.—'ilie humerus may be broken in any portion of its extent. Fracture of the upper third IS generaUy described as fracture of the neck of the bone. Ihe displacement attending this fracture varies as the bone IS fractured above or below the insertion of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. In the former case the lower portion of the bone is drawn inwards by these muscles, in the atter it is drawn outwards and upwards by the deltoid whilst the upper portion is drawn inwards by the pectorahs and latissimus dorsi. This fracture may be mistaken for a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla from which It may be distinguished by the shortening of the arm, and the crepitus ascertained by passing one hand over the shoulder, and fixing the head of the bone and moving with the other the lower extremity of the humerus This fracture is treated by passing a roller round the 1 mb the bones having been placed in apposition, and appMnVa yhntoatheantenor,posterior,audoutersurfacesot-^^^^^^^^ There is no occasion for a splint on tbe inner sirln «7wJ the arm is brought inward's to the cLst t tt'b Ii^" ciently supported in this direction. It is wp^ h to place a large flat compress insid; the al to as tlZ' port the fracture in this direction A J! f > , P' for treating fractures of 2 humerut 17 "if other fractifres, is made by co eri g one surfaJ .1' "Tl with adhesive plaster, an/then slitfinrt^^^SURGERY. 618 of about half an incli; the splint may then be bent so as to mould itself to the arm. When the splint has been applied the arm should be bandaged to the side, and the forearm be carefully supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus a little above the condyles is attended with a displacement such as to give rise to the appearance of a dislocation of the elbow-joint. Thus the triceps muscle, drawing upwards the olecranon process, throws forward the fracture so as to form an angle saUent anteriorly. It may be distinguished from a dislocation, by the crepitus, the facility of removing the deformity by extension, which returns immediately on the extending force being removed, and by the relative position of the condyles and olecranon process, these being altered from their natural condition. The angular splint is most suit- able in the treatment of this fracture. Fracture of the olecranon.—This process is occasionally broken by falls or direct violence applied to it. The broken portion is drawn upwards by the triceps; an interval is formed between it and the remaining portion of the bone, which is easily ascertained by the fingers. The fracture is to be treated by keeping the limb in the extended position, and bringing down the detached portion of bone in appo- sition, if possible, with the shaft of the ulna, by means of compresses, sphnts, and bandages. The splint is placed along the anterior surface of the arm and forearm. This fracture unites by ligament. The coronoid process of the ulna is sometimes broken. This fracture is attended generally with partial dislocations of the ulna backwards; it is treated by keeping the arm in the flexed position. , Fractures of the ulna.—The ulna is seldom fractured except by direct violence ; there is little displacement attending the fracture, as the bone is supported by the radius, and there is no difficulty in detecting it, from the bone being very superficial; it is treated with a roller applied round the fore-arm, two splints, and a sling to support the arm. Fractures of the radius.—This bone is most frequently broken at a short distance above the wrist-joint, a fracture which is often mistaken for a dislocation of the articula- tion. The fracture occurs in advanced age, and is caused by a fall on the heel of the hand, in which the whole619 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. weight is thrown on the radius, in consequence of its articulation with the carpal bones; the result is a frac- ture of the radius, in its lower expanded portion, from half an inch to an inch and a half above the styloid process. The accident is known by the history of the case; a swelling in front, produced by effusion into the sheaths of the tendons; a less extensive swelling at the dorsum of the wrist; a depression corresponding to the seat of the fracture, and caused by the pronator quadratus drawing in the fractured portion towards the ulna; and by the position of the hand, which is thrown backwards. Crepitus is with difficulty distinguished in this fracture from the lower extremity of the radius being fixed by ligaments: it is best ascertained by grasping the bone firmly above and below the seat of the fracture, and then moving the bones one on the other. Rotation of the hand IS not sufficient for this purpose, as, from the broad sur- faces by which the ends of the bones are in apposition, the whole radius will move as freely as when not broken. The bones having been placed in apposition by extension and counter-extension, a wetted roUer is to be applied loosely round the forearm, a long narrow compress is to be now placed on the anterior, and another on the poste- rior surface of the forearm, and then compressed into the interosseous spaces, by means of splints extending along the front and back of the forearm, and reaching from the elbow to the palm of the hand, and made fast by a few turns of the bandage. The forearm is to be supported in a 8 ing, the ulna supporting the weight of the extremity, and the hand allowed to hang. The great object in treat- ing this fracture IS to prevent the fractured portions of the radius from being drawn inwards by the pronator quad- ratus, thus obliterating the interosseous space. The natient seldom recovers the use of the hand before three or even six months, as the inflammation consequent on the fracture causes much swelling which is slowly removed Fractures of the melarcarpal bones take place bv direct violence; they are treated by placing a b«ll wifW the clenched hand, and then applyfn ^ Sagt^^ "'^^^^ Fractures of the phalanges of the fingers arc treated bv rolling the parts in a tape, or narrow calico bandage and then applying a pasteboard splint. ^nuage, ana620 SURGERY. COMPOUND FRACTURES are those in which one or more bones are broken, and the fracture communicates with the external air by means of a wound in the soft parts. The treatment of a compound fracture consists in placing the broken bones in apposition, and healing the external wound by the first intention, so as to convert the compound into a simple fracture. This is best accomplished by bringing the edges of the wound together with adhesive plaster, and with sutures if neces- sary. Sir A. Cooper recommends the part to be then covered with a portion of lint wet in the blood of the patient. It is not often that the surgeon is able to accom- plish this desirable object, as the soft parts are in general so injured by the violence that produced the fracture, that they do not admit of being united by the first inten- tion; the bone, too, may protrude, and thus prevent the accomplishment of our object. As the lower end of the tibia, from its superficial posi- tion and the obliquity of its fracture, is more frequently the seat of a compound fracture, we shall select it to lay down the principles which should guide us in the treat- ment of this fracture. Let us say then that from some external violence the tibia is fractured in its lower third, and that the upper portion of the bone, which is almost universally the case, protrudes. The soft parts are in general covered with blood, and it may be with dirt, and present a dark livid appearance caused by the injury, and the effusion of blood beneath the skin. If possible, the bone should be at once returned by extension, and counter-extension; but this cannot always be effected, as it is frequently so confined by the skin as to prevent its reduction; the wound should now be dilated where the constriction on the bone is greatest, that it may be reduced. If the bone cannot now be returned, the pro- truding end should be sawn off, and the wound closed. If any portions of bone are loose and detached, they should be at once removed. The limb is now to be placed iu the most convenient position, and all inflammatory symptoms treated by the antiphlogistic regimen. If the case should prove favorable, moderate inflammation of the wound takes place, followed by suppuration; at the endCOMPOUND FRACTURES. 621 of the third or fourth day, granulations are formed by the bone and soft parts, which coalescing close the exter- nal wound, and afterwards consolidate the fracture, the ossific matter being deposited in the granulations which proceed from the bone and periosteum. Compound frac- tures are seldom cured until the tenth or twelfth week after the receipt of the injury. During this time the wound should be dressed daily, or every second or third day, according to the quantity of discharge, and fresh dressings be applied, supported by means of bandages which press moderately on the parts. Hence the advan- tages of the many-tailed bandages over the roller are ap- parent, as they may be removed with facility without any disturbance of the parts. ^ It is very seldom that a compound fracture proceeds to Its termmation without troublesome or dangerous symp- toms. The principal of these are spasmodic twitchines violent inflammation, and secondary heemorrhage ' Spasmodic tioitcUngs of the muscles displace the bones, and cause much distress to the patient These are best treated by placing the limb in that position which relaxes the principal muscles, by the use of cold lotions to dynes ^ exhibition of opium and other ano- Violent wflammation of the This commences generaUy towards the end of the first twenty-four hours after the receipt of the injury, and should be at onc^ combated by the antiphlogistic regimen, as a preventive measure, for the result is likely to be either profuse suppu ration or mortification. General bloodletting should be had recourse to but sparingly, as otherwise we debilitate our patient too much, and thus disable him from bearing up against the future calls on his constitSion LeecheB and fomentations should be applied about the wound and this be enveloped in a common poultice or tb^ 1 i treatment by water-dressings ma^ b resorted fn '^T bowels should be opened by enemaL anr . these followed by the exhibinL nf T 1 • ^^^^ "^^ When profuse suVpuraTion ensues ft^ r^''' shouldVe prevenSby the runV^dn^^^^^^ ''r'''' ble, in a dependent positior by the "f/T'^' P°^^'- and, if necessary, by^.aking'j 'tZl.^l^r^^^SURGERY. 622 suppuration may be caused by foreign bodies, or a loose spicula of bone lodged in the wound, or by the too long continued use of poultices and fomentations. If the former be present, they should be removed, the latter should be at once discontinued, and simple or astringent dressing applied, the patient's constitution being sup- ported by the exhibition of bark and a generous diet. Mortification appears on the third or fourth day. If par- tial, the sloughs separate, and the wound heals by granu- lation. Should it extend, so as to threaten the life of the patient, amputation is to be performed, if not contra- indicated by the state of the sufferer. The limb should be removed at some distance from the extensively morti- fied parts, as the grangrene extends further in the soft parts, and particularly in the cellular tissue beneath the integuments, than in the skin. If possible, a joint should intervene. Such amputations rarely succeed. If the gangrene appear to have been the result of a debili- tated constitution, not of the local injury, amputation should not be performed. Secondary hcemorrhaffe.—This proceeds from sloughing of some of the arteries of the limb, and generally requires amputation. When it proceeds from this cause, it does not appear for some days after the accident. Bleeding, however, may take place immediately on the receipt of the injury, from laceration of the vessels. Many cases of compound fracture present themselves, which call for immediate or primary amputation. These are, first, where the bones are much comminuted, and the soft parts are at the same time extensively destroyed. Secondly, when the principal vessels and nerves of the limb are injured. Thirdly, when the age and constitution of the patient lead us to suppose that he may be unable to support the difficulties attending the union of the fracture. , . •, , , Comminuted fractures are those in which the bones are broken into several portions. Their treatment and termi- nations depend on their being simple or compound. We need not, therefore, discuss them particularly. Comph- cated fractures are those which arc complicated with some other injury, as a wound of the principal artery of the limb, or an extension of the fracture into a joint.NON-UNION OF FRACTURES. 623 When the principal artery has been wounded, the limb becomes swoUen immediately after the receipt of the injury ; and if the blood be effused immediately beneath the skm this presents a dark livid appearanc'e (ecchv- mosis) which should not be mistaken for gangrene; the limb becomes cold and the patient complains of much frtvl Pf.^"^^ ^"'•S^^"^ recommend the tying of the pnncipal arteries leading to the limb as the popliteal, where the tibial arteries^ are wounded others prefer amputation. This point is not as vet settled m surgery. If the parts be left'to nature, mo7t fication ensues, or the integuments inflame and give way he coagulated blood mixed with bubbles of gas and J'fet^ Snn r^'wi'^^'Pf' '^'^ by the flu d , blood When the wounded artery is not large and fl p Sfand tr?' f"l' thlTecom t sorbed, and the fracture heals without any bad symptom v'^^^seTaTbTl: ""^' ^"^"^ - the iTnTi loZd frie '""^ —^ ^ --pie -to a com- Bones are sometimes partially fractured and bent in children; the^;..«^^.„ns the same as that recommend S for simple fracture, sufHcient pressure beLg mde to remove any deformitj^hat may exist ^ carS^S^b^li^am^n^^ "^^^ ^^ro- Generally speaking, the extension of a simple frnnf,,.. jnto a joint does not interfere with the ultimarsuc e f the case. Some inflammation of the ioint JnTf but can be removed by leeches, cold lotions? &c ' ON NON-UNION OF FRACTURES be complete wp finri . , ^'^l"^ci union to botes ha, Skerpl.ce 1"'"' several cause, "'>»■"''"'» -ay arise from necessary .o^xeite .ZTy'TZ' tt'f"'",""' " ^erateiy, by b^and™; „ f^b/plS. X624 SURGERY. patient on a full generous diet, as a certain degree of inflammation is indispensable to the healing of the fracture. 2d. From a diseased or peculiar state of the con- stitution.—Persons of a scrofulous or otherwise weak state of the constitution are most liable to non-union of a fracture. In these a generous diet and good air will be found beneficial. Where there is a syphilitic taint in the constitution, a fracture will often not unite. Mercury should be given, when union will in general take place. The exhibition of mercury will often cause a fracture to unite even where no syphilis is present. It has been stated, that fractures do not unite in pregnant women: such is not the case. 3d. Where the limb has not been kept at res^. —This frequently is the cause of non-union. The limb being re- peatedly moved during the first few weeks, the disposition to union has been lost, and is with difficulty reproduced. If proper means be not resorted to, a false joint will form in the limb, in which the ends of the bones become rounded, covered with a hard deposit, and enclosed by ligaments. Before such false joint has formed, we should, by moving the fracture, break up any hga- mentary adhesions that exist, and reproduce the inflam- matory action; by which, and the subsequent use of tight bandages and splints, union may at length be accomplished. Should this not succeed, the plan recom- mended by Dr. Physick of New York may be tried, viz., a seton may be passed between the broken ends of the bones, and allowed to remain for a few days, or until sufficient inflammation has been excited, when it is to be with- drawn It has been recommended also to cut down on the fracture, and saw off the ends of the bones. This is very questionable practice, as a compound fracture is formed, which may be followed by dangerous if not fatal consequences. Amputation has been occasionally practised, but few cases will be met with in which it is called for. The humerus is more frequently the subject of non-union than any other bone. Non-union occasion- ally foUows a compound fracture; here there can be no serious objection to the sawing off the ends of the bones, as a compound fracture already exists: before doing so aDISEASES OF B0NE3. 625 strict examination should be made of the limb, as a spicula of bone, some foreign body, or a collection of matter, may be the cause of non-union, on the removal of "which the bones will unite. The most recent invention for promoting the union of bone in these cases, is that practised by Dieffenbach. He has recommended the introduction of an ivory peo' into each end of the bone at about half to one inch from each end of the bone, and connecting them together by wire so as to excite increased vascular action and thereby union. The pegs have been tried in London without the wire and ■with satisfactory results. DISEASES OP BONES. _ Phlegmonous i:>flammation, commencing in the bone Itself, IS of rare occurrence. More frequently the inflam- mation first attacks the periosteum, and spreads from thence to the osseous tissue. The symptoms are usually of a local character: they are a deep, heavy, though some- times acute pain in the bone, followed sooi'i by an enlarge- ment of tlie osseous structure, and thickening of the perios- teum. Ihe inflammation may either terminate in ulcera- tion of the bone (caries), or in the formation of an abscess in Its interior, but more frequently ends in necrosis Necrosis is complete death of the bone, attended with or followed by the formation of new bone. It is analogous to mor ,ficat.on in the soft parts. Necrosis usually^ffect. the shafts of the long bones, from their being composed of compact tissue, and less highly organised than the spongy bones. The tibia femur, lower jaw, clavicle, humerus! S ?' ^ IZ' ''"^ frequently affected. Although no age is wholly exempt from necro^7 It more frequently appears in youth before or abon; puberty, with the exception of the necrosis of the We jaw winch in general appears in adult or advanced 1^? Next to the long, the flat bones are most liable In n! and, last of all, the irregular hoZ T^tl^ frequently attacks the tilla. we si a "select Tc 'T e'T nature to illustrate the disease. s nVtb? 1 be caused either by direct violencerarby Wow "i "hj part, by exposure to cold or mnv „ ^ • f evCeot oauL T„e fire. ■.;;eZZ:TLTZl ^"1626 SURGERY. dull, heavy, and constant pain in the bone, -without any redness of the skin. By degrees the limb begins to swell, as the inflammation spreads to the more superficial parts, the periosteum becomes thicker, and the integuments in- flame, either through the whole length of the bone or in detached portions. There is, in general, some slight con- stitutional fever at this time. As the disease advances to its second stage, abscesses form, and burst externally at different points. The pus discharged is in general healthy, but may be thin and fetid, and cannot be increased in quantity by pressure, as it collects in the interior of the bone. The openings of the abscesses named cloacce are small, circular, and furnished each with a fungous papilla of a red colour, which obscures the apertures from view. Through these openings the dead bone, or sequestrum, begins soon to protrude (third stage), in pieces of variable size, sometimes large, but more frequently small and numerous, and are ultimately thrown ofi" or removed by the surgeon. The detached portions of bone are ex- ceedingly rough and irregular, their extremities present a worm-eaten appearance, and their surfaces appear as if acted on by the absorbent vessels. That portion of them which is lodged in the limb is of a white colour, but that exposed to the air generally becomes discoloured, sometimes black. Whilst by these means the old bone is being separated from the system, a new bone is in progress of formation, and is often completed before the old bone, or sequestrum, is thrown off, so that the patient may not be deprived of the use of the Umb at any period of the complaint. The new bone is formed around, so as to enclose the old bone; which, in process of time, makes its way through the new bone, and is thrown oflf as already described. It has been much disputed, whether the new bone is formed by the old periosteum, by the remaining ends of the old bone, or by a new periosteum formed from the adjacent cellular tissue. There can be no doubt that each of these agents conduces to the formation of the new bone; and that, should the old periosteum perish with the bone, nature possesses the power to form a new one, and thus produce the new bone. The progress of necrosis is in general exceedingly slow, 80 as to deserve the name of a chronic disease, years some-DISEASES OP BONES. 627 times elapsing before recovery is completed; there is, how- ever an acute form of the disease, which moves more rapidly to its termination, and sometimes causes the death ot the patient. In this the local inflammation is ffreat and is accompanied by a corresponding degree of consti- tutional disturbance the patient being confined to bed, and incapable of making any use of the limb. The use of leeches, tomentations, and cataplasms, wiU be found bene- hcial in relieving the patient's sulTeriuo-s hpUt"? tlie -disease is extremely acute, and the patient liT V.'^^ ^'""'^^^ P"^-^ ^"'^ discharge from the V consequent irritation of the constitution, amputation frequently becomes necessary. In the chronic form of necrosis, the surgeon has little to do. If, indeed le'm.T.f separating, perforat on may be made through the new bone, so as to remove the por- tions of the old which still remain, but this operation is seldom required. If the limb be examined Lm W after the cure is completed, the new bone will be found to be larger and more circular than the old. and not o fh^Z V'^'^'"^ ^"^^'^^"'^^^ depressions fo? he attachment and course of the muscles and tendons In other respects there is no difference. The term necro is IS usually applied, although not correctly, to the part a exfoliation of the bones of the cranium ^ conw1r^b?^""'""'r' "-^ This disease is nearly confaned to the spongy tissue of bones; thus the vertebrJ the heads of the long bones, where the^ form articuhtion^ and particularly the larger joints, as th^e h p and itXrdit""' ™ostfrequen^y\lcted; ?h It. The disease is most common in the youno- suMppJ before pi^erty and in persons of a scrofulouHia^heS iicrofulous disease of the vertebrrP TI,;. . , known as caries of the vertebr2 or p7tT« r ^'"'J'""^ spine. This affection aprears^nnb the dorsal than in the luTbror^taT^e^^T^^^ times appears spontaneously, at other tTme, ! ?!' ^T^' injury, as a fall or blow on the spi^l ''T';^^"^ patient be a child, the account most Cl at first It had been observed To ll iT i^ f '^'"^^'^^ easily tired; and frequentlv to no i'mpediment ill^Z t Z ^ ^"t^^^We, although : lis way, that when it movedSUEGEEY. 628 hastily or unguardedly, its legs would cross eacli other involuntarily, by wliicli it was often and suddenly thrown down; that if it endeavoured to stand without support, its knees would totter and bend under it; that it could not with any degree of precision or certainty steadily direct either of its feet to any particular point; but that, in attempting so to do, they would be suddenly and involun- tarily brought across each other; that soon after this it complained of frequent pains and twitchings in its thighs, particularly when in bed, and of an uneasy sensation or tightness across the epigastrium ; tliat when it sat it en- deavoured to support the head artificially; the legs were almost always found across each other, and drawn up under the seat, and that soon after it entirely lost the power of walking. There is usually also present a dull, heavy pain, and weakness in the region afi'ected ; and the digestive and respiratory organs ai'e incapable of discharg- ing their functions perfectly. If the patient be placed on the face, and the spine ex- amined, by striking with a moderate degree of force each spinous process; or, what is better, by moving each from side to side he will instantly wince wiien the diseased part is handled, and at the same time complains of pains shoot- ing in the course of the spinal marrow and principal nerves. This, which may be considered as the first or inflamma- tory stage of the disease, is characterised at a somewhat later period by a peculiar state of the limbs, termed palsy, and induced by the inflanimation having spread to the spinal marrow and membranes ; in this, the muscles are rigid, and almost always in a tonic state, by which the knees and ankles acquire a stiffness not easily overcome. By means of this stiflPness, mixed with a kind of spasm, the legs of the patient are either constantly kept stretched out, in which case considerable force is requn-ed to bend them, or they are drawn across each other, so as to be with difficulty separated. When the limbs are forcibly bent, the legs are suddenly drawn up with the heels towards the btittocks. The feet are forcibly extended, so that the patient cannot put the heels to the ground. There may be also at this time retention of urine, and, if the sulijett be a male, shooting pains along the spermatic cord, with occasional retraction of the testes.DISEASES OF BONES. 629 It is in this, the early stage of the disease, that treat- ment will be found most effectual in arresting the progress of the disease. For this purpose, strict rest in tiie hori- zontal position should be enjoined, and at the same time the patient should have the advantage of good air and diet. The state of the stomach and bowels should be also at- tended to. Leeches should be applied in the neighbour- hood of the diseased vertebrae, and after their application an issue inserted on one side at least of the spine, the other side being retained for the occasional application or blisters and leeches if necessary. If the disease be not arrested in the first, it proceeds to the second stage. This is characterised by a curvature of the spine and the formation of an abscess. The curvature ot the spine ensues from the destruction of the bodies of the vertebras, when the spine bends beneath the weight ot the head and upper extremities. The curve is always concave forwards and convex backwards, except in a few cases, where but one side of the bodies of tlie vertebra i. removed, when a lateral curve is formed. The extent of the curve vanes according to the number of vertebrae aftected; thus, if but one or two be removed, it will be angular but if several, it will be much more extensive Ihe limbs now generally become paralysed, having lost the tonic condition described as existing in the fiist sta-e and remaining flaccid in any position in which they nfav be placed Ihis condition is produced by pressure on the spmal marrow, occasioned either by the displaced bones or by an effusion into the spinal canal; or it may be caused by a diseased state of the spinal marrow the result of the inflammatory action. marroyv. The abscess which forms in this disease collects in it« immediate neighbourhood, but may present itself at some d stant po.nt. The usual course described, is in the si eTth of the psoas muscle, which conducts it beneath Poupa t's ligament into the upper and inner part of the thi^h hence called psoas abscess. The matter niay point in oth r e! So'lyX Ur:rh 'p\r^ '"-^'^^ "^"'^ lumbar regions postenorly, by he side of the rectum or under the o-luteus trs'iatic'ro? li ""'^^ outwards through the stmt c notch. Tiie course of the abscess is much influenced by the usual position of the patient; JhisHfSURGERY. 630 he have been confined to bed, it will most likely point on the posterior surface of the body; but if he have been walking about it will descend. These abscesses have been frequently confounded with other diseases, such as aneurism, hernia, and fistula in ano. The sense of fluctuation and the history of the case will in general serve to distinguish them. The plan of treatment in the second stage differs but little from that recommended for the first, with the exception that leeches may be dispensed with. The abscesses are best left to nature, unless when they are productive of much uneasiness, local or constitutional. Mr. Abernethy has recommended their being opened frequently, and their contents given exit to, by which means the cyst of the abscess may be made to contract, and thus become obliterated. His plan is as follows: Select a part of the tumour which is free from inflammation, or any large blood-vessel, and not the most depending, through this introduce an abscess lancet obliquely into the abscess; allow the matter to flow off", taking care that no air enters; having nearly or wholly emptied the cyst, close the lips of the wound with adhesive plaster, that it may unite by the first in- tention, and apply a bandage and compresses over the cyst, so as to make pressure on it, and retard its future increase. By repeating the operation twice or thrice, it is hoped that a cure will be eff"ected, as already mentioned. This plan has been found not to succeed: in some the external wound has not healed, and the matter has con- tinued to be discharged until the patient has sunk under the disease; in others the wound, although closed, has opened anew, producing the same result; whilst in many, inflammation has attacked the cyst of the abscess, and caused a fatal termination by the severe local and con- stitutional disturbances thus excited. In the latter case the patient is attacked with shiverings a few hours after the operation, the integuments covering the cyst become red, tender to the touch, a thin sanious matter, mixed with bubbles of air and clots of blood, is discharged from the abscess, dehrium sets in, and the patient dies. This plan of treating chronic abscess should be confined to those cases which are not complicated with diseased bone.631 DISEASES OF BONES. The third stage of Pott's disease is that in M'hich the abscess has burst or has been opened, and a well-marked hectic fever sets in, which soon brings on the fatal catas- troplie. Patients labouring under disease of the spine sometimes die from inflammation of one of the large serous membranes.* When caries of the vertebrae affects the cervical or lumbar regions, there will be some modifi- cation of the disease dependent on the difference in the relative anatomy of the parts and the regions supplied with nerves from the spinal marrow. A cure is sometimes effected in caries of the spine, more frequently in the first than in the second, and in this oftener than in the third stage. It takes place by the ulcerative process ceasing, when anchylosis of the bodies of the vertebrae ensues. _ In this case, ossific matter is thrown out along the sides and front of the spine in the affected region, which ties together the remains of the diseased vertebrae, and serves as buttresses for the support of the spinal column. This provision is still further strengthened by a conden- sation of the ligaments of the spine. The spinal marrow is preserved in its functions by an enlargement of the spinal canal. Caries of the vertebrae sometimes com- mences in the intervertebral substance, whence it ex- tends to the spongy tissue of the bones. The disease has been also induced by inflammation attacking the psoas muscle, and thence extending to the spine. The interver- tebral substance is removed equally with the bodies of the vertebrae. Scrofulous disease of the ends of the bones will be more properly considered under the head of diseases of the jomts. A caries of the long or flat bones sometimes occurs, as in the bones of the head, the tibia, &c This IS usually limited to the outer table of the bone and presents an ulcerated surface, at the bottom of which IS the diseased bone The exfoliation of the diseased part should be expedited as much as is consistent with fuZf l when this has been accom- phshed, the granulations from the healthy portions of n,,n/r iilll'rr'''''''^'''''r'*"°'=' ^^^^ ^ I'l'-ge accumulation of matter will sometimes take place in the disease without inducing any severe constitutional affection. iiuaumg any632 SUKGEBT. the bone unite with those of the soft parts, and the ulcer heals. Malignant diseases of hone.—Although the osseous system is more frequently affected by tlie spread of malignant diseases to it from the neiglibouring parts, still it is liable to a primary cancerous affection: this is usually called osteo-sarcoma. This disease is most fre- quently met -with in the bones of the face, particularly the inferior maxilla, the long bones, and the ossa inno- minata. It commences with a deeply-seated pain in the bone, which after some time becomes enlarged, forming a distinct tumour or swelHng: this is hard and affected with lancinating pains. By degrees the soft parts become in- flamed, and at length giving way a fungus issues from the diseased mass, as in cancer of the soft parts. As soon as the disease has been ascertained, it should be removed. This may be done by extirpation of the diseased bone, or amputation of the limb. The tumour is found to be com- posed in some cases of a homogeneous greyish, yellowish, lard-like substance ; in others spiculse of bone are met with ; and in many, cells or cysts containing a medullary- looking substance, clots of blood, &c. Exostosis is a term which implies a morbid growth from a bone, and is usually understood to be of an osseous nature. It is also improperly applied to other diseases of bones, some of which have been before alluded to. Of real exostosis there are three varieties, viz., solid, hollow, and foliated. The solid species includes a node, and also other projections, which attnin a greater elevation above the surface of the bone. This is most common in the lower jaw, tibia, and femur, and occurs at or after the adult age. Excision is sometimes necessary for its re- moval, and the use of dilute phosphoric acid administered internally has been recommended, under the impression that it would dissolve the phosphate of lime, the largest constituent of the morbid growth. The other two varieties are connected witii formation of soft matter, and are most frequently observed on the extremities. A variety of exostosis, named the dense or ivory exos- tosis, is described by Miller and others. It occurs most frequently upon the hones of the cranium externally, and consists of deposits of a hemispherical form, which attain a considerable degree of hardness.DISEASES OF BONES. 633 Rachitis or Rickets.—This term is applied to a diseased state of tiie bones, in which there is a deficiency of earthy matter, and they are consequently soft, yielding, aud non- resisting: this condition is attended with an unhealthy state of the constitution, evidenced by the countenance, general emaciation, and tumid abdomen. The bones yield to the weight and pressure of the body, and there is con- siderable distortion. After some years this condition is altered, and the bones become hard and compact, but stOl retaining their early form. The treatment must be directed towards improving the general health, as by light nutritious diet and wholesome air. The limbs should not be called upon for over-exertion, and as the disease shows itself in children, they should be encouraged rather to crawl along than endeavour to get about by exercise in the erect posture. The preparations of iron seem to improve the assimilative functions, aud are thus found often useful. Mollities ossium, named also Malacosteon and Osteo- malakia, is a morbid softening of the bones produced by absorption of earthy matter, and indeed of the natural animal substance of the bone. It occurs more frequently in females of the middle age, and, unlike the former, is attended with considerable pam. Medicines have little influence over it; they can palliate and assist dietetic remedies, but still the patient generally progresses to a premature death. Frayilitas ossium is a term applied to the state of bones m which, from slight exertion, they give way and break' Ihis IS ordinarily referred to a superabundance of earthy matter, but as often proceeds from excessive softenino- or trom osteo-sarcomatous disease. The bones have been remarked for yielding readily after the system had been long disturbed by carcinomatous disease. The consti tution is ordinarily too much impaired for any benefit to be derived from the use of medicine. Many other diseases of bone are enumerated by authors and some already mentioned are designated by other terms 1 shall briefiy enumerate them. .y utr leims. Osteoma (Miller) is an hypertrophy of bone of creat ttt 2'te°''Sr''?'""^' '^"f degenenufngS ^rLommenieJr' " '^''^ 27 §SURGEEY. 634 Enchondroma, as its name implies, is a cartilaginous disease and degeneration of bone. It proceeds either from the periosteum or internal structure, and may affect the carpal bones, phalanges of the fingers, and more rarely other bones of the body. The tumour usually consists of a shell of bone, containing cartilaginous matter in its interior; when it attacks the cancellous structure the bone becomes soft and expanded, and attains a considerable size, and interferes with the movements of the limb. The disease is not malignant. If it does not give way to the application of iodine or mercury, excision or amputation will be required to remove the deformity. Osteo-cystoma is a disease in which the bone expands into a thin sheU, with septa in its interior, and containing a fluid of a serous or sanious character. It was formerly named spina ventosa. It may be punctured and sup- ported by pressure, but generally requii-es excision or amputation to remove the inconvenience. Osteo-cephaloma is a fungoid malignant disease of bone, which may occur primarily there, or reach the bone from neighbouring parts. The only hope is in early amputa- tion. This disease is described previously under the name of osteo-sarcoma, although some take pains to draw a broad distinction between them. Osteo-carcinoma implies carcinomatous disease of bone of very rare occurrence, generally secondary to cancer in other parts, as the mamma, &c. Osteo-melanosis consists of melanotic deposit in bones, and is also secondary to the disease attacking other parts. Vascular tumours are described, including osteo-aneu- rism, growth of erectile tissue, and medullary deposits. Hydatids are occasionally formed in bone, in the can- cellated tissue, and cause great enlargement of the extre- mities, with great tenuity of the covering ; the disease may be treated by puncture, by excision, and may lead to the necessity of amputation. DISEASES OF JOINTS. The principal diseases of joints are inf ammation of the synovial membrane or synovitis, ijijlammation or ulceration of the cartilayes, scrofulous diseases of the ends of the bone or ivhite swellings, and rheumatic affections. lu addition635 DISEASES OF JOINTS. to these, morbid growths frequently form in the joints, and necrosis may extend to the articular extremity of the bones. As the knee-joint is that which is most frequently dis- eased, we shall select this as the standard for the rest, only noticing in them such peculiarities as deserve distinct consideration. Inflammation of the synovial membrane or synovitis.— This is brought on by wounds or injuries of the articula- tion, by exposure to cold, and by metastasis from the other joints. The disease is characterised by a severe pain soon diffused over the joint, which is followed in a tew hours by a considerable swelling caused by an effusion ot serum into the articulation, which raises the patella from off the condyles of the femur, and extends some distance upwards on the anterior surface of the bone be- neath the extensor tendons, and at the same time causes a projection on either side of the ligamentum patella. The temperature of the joint is much increased, but there is no redness of the integuments for some time after the com- mencement of the inflammation. There is severe consti- tutional fever, and the patient is unable to use the ioint, aU the structures m the articulation being affected. It the disease be neglected, purulent matter soon forms Itl '^terior of the jomt, which graduaUy makes its way outwards, and is discharged by one or more openings round head of the tibia. Hectic fever now sets in, and the Z tient IS carried off unless amputation be performed. ^ The duration of the disease is extremely variable- in some cases It runs its course in two or three weeks, whils m others it assumes a more chronic form, and may aTt for months or even years. In these latter c^ses alta tcmT nation IS often superseded by an anchylosed cond t on nf meVts'of V a condensation of tl e L -^^^^-^-i^on, or by an ossific union of tlie neighbourhood foUowed rfreS^fo" '1 '^^'''^'^ sometimes general venesectirlTL rS ! 1""% emetic and colchicum are valuable nnv.l^ t/'?'^''''' raoaeOie. conjoined ap^^* ."^^^636 SURGEUY. tutional symptoms, do not relieve the affection, mercury sliould be exhibited, and, if necessary, to salivation, la the more chronic form, issues, setons, blisters, and the moxa applied round the joint will be found beneficial. Chronic synovitis is occasionally met with and often associated with rheumatism. Tlie symptoms resemble those of the acute disease, except in severity and the dura- tion of the disease. It often leads to copious effusion of fluid into the joint named hydrarthrus. The treatment must be largely constitutional; leeches may be required, and the strictest rest enjoined. When pain and inflam- matory symptoms subside, various counter-irritants with support are useful, such as Scott's ointment and plasters, iodine, &c. Brown pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint has been pointed out by Sir B. Brodie. It generally occurs in adults, is tedious in its progress, and attended with little or no pain, and passes on to ulceration of the cartilages and copious effusion of serous and puru- lent matter it may open externally by several orifices, cause hectic symptoms, and destroy the patient, unless amputa- tion be resorted to. Ulceration of the cartilages takes place in more ad- vanced life, and is characterised by a severe fixed pain referred to one part of the joint, most frequently on the inner side; this after some time, in many cases not for months, is followed by swelling of the joiut, a diffusion of pain, and severe constitutional disturbance. It terminates, like synovitis, in the formation of pus in the articulation, and destruction of the interior of the joint. Its treatment is the same as that recommended for synovitis. In some cases the ulceration of the cartilage ceases and the. joint recovers, the place of the cartilage being supplied by an osseous deposition of unusual hardness; in others anchy- losis takes place. Scrofulous affection of the knee-joint (ivhite-sioelliiig).— This affection appears eitlier before or about the age of puberty, and in persons of a scrofulous diathesis. It is in general caused by repeated, though trifliug, injuries, such as sprains of the joints, from which the patient re- covers but imperfectly, leaving more or less weakness and sometimes pain in the articulation. By degrees the diseaseDISEASES OF JOINTS. 63/ becomes established; the patient is now either confined to bed, or prevented from niiiking any use of the limb. The joint when examined is found to be much swollen, the in- teguments are of a pale, white colour, and a number of blueish veins ramify over the joint. The pain in the arti- culation is seldom severe, often altogetlier "absent, and the increase in temperature is not remarkable. The limb above and below tlie knee is much wasted, and the general health is impaired, but not seriously. In this stage parti- cular attention should be paid to the state of the stomach and bowels, the patient being allowed a generous diet and a free use of good air. Counter-irritants and leeches should be applied to the joint, and splints placed behind it, 80 as to prevent all motion. As the disease advances^ matter of a scrofulous nature forms in the interior of the articulation, and gradually makes its way outwards by several openings. The constitution now sympathises much, hectic fever sets in, and the patient is frequently carried off, unless amputation be performed. Whatever the primary affection may have been, the same appearances present themselves in a post-mortem examination of the articulation, when the disease has ad- vanced to its last stage. Thus the cartilages are more or less removed, and particularly the inter-articular and the cartilage covering the head of the tibia; the synovial membrane is thickened, soft, and pulpy, the ligaments are removed, or degenerated into a soft pulpv mass, and the extremities of the bones are increased in"'vascularity In the purely scrofulous affection a quantity of adipose substance is often met with beneath the skin, the cellular substance is filled with serum, the cartilages apnelr thinned and as if easily detached from the bones, and the spongy tissue of these is filled with a reddish watery fluid and not unfrequently purulent matter. The sinuses around the joint, which have given exit to the ma er are lined by an adventitious membrane The applications most useful as counter-irritants in chronic diseases of the knee, are the tartar-em ic oin ment, he hnnnentum op.i, the compound iodine ohli and a linunent made with strong sulphuric acid and oilv; Diseases of the hip-Joiut.-Synontk of this articulation638 SURGERY. is much less frequently met with than in the knee, in con- sequence of being better covered with soft parts. It is in general caused by mechanical injury; when of the acute form it is less under control than synovitis of the knee. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in which pus was formed in the joint on the third day, and which proved fatal on the seventh day after the injury. The disease is characterised by acute deep-seated pain referred to the articulation, and increased on motion, general swelling around the hip, and severe constitutional disturbance. Morbus Coxce.—This is a scrofulous affection of the hip-joint, and therefore analogous to white swelling in the knee. Its peculiar characteristic marks are best examined by dividing the disease into three stages : First Stage.—Pain in the hip or knee-joint, or both, attended with sharp pains down the thigh, an inabihty to use the limb, an apparent elongation when the patient is placed in the erect posture, produced by the obliquity of the pelvis, which is itself caused by the patient resting only on the sound limb, and thus forcing the pelvis on that side upwards ; eversion and pointing of the foot which is advanced in front of the other, curvature of the lumbar portion of the spine, the convexity towards the diseased side ; fulness of the nates, soon followed by flattening and elongation, which causes the fold to be lower than on the opposite side ; swelUng in the inguinal region; severe pain in the hip, when the foot or knee is forced upwards. Second Stage.—Shortening of the limb caused by ab- sorption of the head of the femur, widening of the aceta- bulum, and finally by a dislocation of the femur on the dorsum of the ilium; formation of abscesses around the joint. Third Stage.—Abscesses burst; there are sinuous open- ings around the articulation, most frequently behind the trochanter, beneath the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, or below the fold of the nates; hectic fever, fol- lowed frequently by death. The treatment of morbus coxae is similar to that recom- mended for white swelling. Young subjects sometimes recover from an attack of morbus coxse, adults seldom. Recovery is effected by the cessation of the ulcerative pro-DISEASES OP JOINTS. 639 cess in the bones of the articulation, followed by false anchylosis, which is formed by a condensation of the liga- ments. Bony or true anchylosis rarely takes place. More frequently a false joint is formed between the upper extre- mity of the femur and the dorsum of the ilium against which it rests. In morbus coxae both the head of the femur and the acetabulum become carious; the former is absorbed, the latter is much widened. In some cases the caries m'akes its way through the bottom of the acetabulum, when col- lections of matter form in the interior of the pelvis. Morbus coxa senilis.—This disease appears only in old persons; it is characterised by a dull, heavy pain in the hip-joint, followed by weakness and wasting of the limbs. The pam is increased by change in the weather, particu- larly when It is damp and cold. The great trochanter soon projects more than in its natural condition. The disease consists in a chronic enlargement of the head of the femur the cartilage of which is absorbed, its place being supplied by a hard, ivory-like deposit; the neck of the bone is short- ened, the ligamentum teres absorbed, and the acetabulum widened Abscesses do not form in it, nor is it ever fatal bimilar diseases to those described as affecting the hip and knee-joint attack the other joints of the body Their general course is the same. They are seldom, however, tatal, although often requiring amputation to preserve the patient s life In diseases of the elbow the swelling occurs principally above the olecranon, under the extensor mus- cles of the forearm, in the ankle it is between the lateral ligaments and the tendons in front of the joint. A carion<, «)ndition of the carpal and tarsal bones is frequently met TFoundsof the joints.—When the interior of a ioint is wounded the synovia escapes. The wound should be closed immediately, and made to unite, if possible, by the fir t in tention ; the most perfect rest shoild be enjoined and aU Foreiffn Bodies in joints.—Thekneo-^mM 4. i- x inn. ..face of t,:tZTZlL':ZtZt ^^d^;640 SURGERY. off into the articulation, and by others to be formed by a deposit of lymph or blood on the outer surface of the mem- brane, which deposit becoming organised soon projects into the articulation, and, being detached by sudden vio- lence, lies loose in its interior. Foreign bodies in the interior of a joint are productive of much distress to the patient, as they are frequently, in walking, caught between the extremities of the bones, and thus cause excruciating pain, followed by inflammation of the synovial membrane. Repeated attacks of this description may induce a chronic inflammation of the joint, which may terminate in its dis- organisation. The treatment of foreign bodies consists in moderating the inflammation of the joint when present, and subse- quently removing them by making a valvular subcutaneous incision on tlie inner side of and into the articulation, when, by moderate pressure, the bodies will be discharged: the wound should be immediately closed, and made to unite by the first intention. The violent attacks of inflam- mation of the joint, that have so frequently followed this operation, have deterred many surgeons from its perform- ance ; most prefer the wearing of a laced knee-cap over the joint, which fixes the foreign bodies to one position. ON DISLOCATIONS. A joint is said to be dislocated, or luxated, when the articular surfaces of the bones, which enter into its forma- tion, are so displaced as not to correspond to each other. Dislocations are produced either by external violence, such as blows and falls, or by the action of muscles. The general sijmptoim of a dislocation are, deformity, shortening of the limb, (the dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, and of the femur into the foramen ovale, being the only cases in which the limb is elongated,) loss of power and motion in the part, more or less swelhng and pain, which is increased on moving the limb. Dislocations should be reduced as soon after their occurrence as possible, that advantage may be taken of the faintness of the patient, and the relaxed state of most of the muscles. In a short time the patient recovers from the shock of the accident, the muscles contract, so as to accommodate themselves to the displaced bone, and effusion takes place; all of whichDISLOCATIONS. 641 circumstances conspire to render tlie reduction more difficult. The capsular ligament was formerly supposed to oppose the reduction of a dislocation ; this is fouud not to be the case, as that structure is always extensively torn. When a dislocation has been left unreduced, a new joint is formed for the head of the bone displaced, the old socket becoming absorbed or filled up. Dislocations are, in general, reduced by manual extension, but, when this ■ cannot be accomplished, the pulleys are resorted to, and the patient weakened by bloodletting, and the adminis- tration of tartar emetic, tobacco-enemata, &c. ; but during the last year or two chloroform has superseded all other means resorted to, for overcoming muscular rigidity. The pulleys are to be preferred in the reduction of the disloca- tions of Ihe larger articulations, for by their use the ex- tending force is rendered more constant and regular, by which the opposing muscles are at length overpowered. Dislocations are most usually confounded with fractures. They may be distinguished by their peculiar and the fol- lowing general characters : in dislocations the mobility of the limb is less than natural, in fractures greater; there is crepitus in fractures, none in dislocations, excepting a grating of the synovia, which soon disappears in moving the limb ; in fractures the deformity is easily removed, but soon returns, unless prevented by appropriate treatment; in dislocations the deformity is removed with difficulty, but is not liable to return, if the limb be kept quiet. Fractures occur generally in adult and advanced life, dislocations in younger subjects. Bislocafions of the hip-joint.—The head of the femur may be dislocated in at least four directions, viz. Upwards and backwards, on the dorsum of the ilium. Backwards into the sciatic notch. Upwards forwards on the horizontal ramus of the puhes. Downwards amiforivards into tlie foramen ovale. Of twenty dislocations of the hip, twelve are on the dorsum of the dium, five into the sciatic notch, one on the pubes, and two into the foramen ovale. Dislocation upwards and backwards, or on the dorsum of thedimn.-Causes : hdls on the outer and lower part of the hmb (generally the external condyle of the femur) while the hmb IS in a state of adduction, and brought slightly forwards.642 STJHGERY. Symptoms .-—The limb is from one inch to two inches shorter than its fellow; the thigh is a Uttle bent and car- ried mwards ; the knee incHnes more forwards and inwards than the opposite one, which it crosses partially ; the leg and thigh are turned inwards, and the foot points in this direction, the toes resting against or upon the tarsus of the other foot; the trochanter major is raised, turned forwards, and approximates the anterior superior spine of the ilium, but is less prominent than natural; the head of the femur is turned backwards, and may be distinguished by moving the limb; the foot can be turned inwards, but not out- wards, without much pain; the thigh is with difficulty separated from the opposite one, but may be slightly bent across it with facility. A few rare cases of dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium are recorded, in which the head of the femur was turned forwards and the trochanter backwards. In such the limb is rotated outwards. Reduction.—Place the patient in the horizontal position, on the side opposite the injured limb, upon a table firmly fixed, or a large four-post bedstead. A sheet, folded longitudinally, is first to be placed under the perinaeum, avoiding the pudenda; one end being carried behind the patient, the other before him; the two ends are to be fas- tened to one of the legs of the table or posts of the bed. Thus, the pelvis will be fixed, so as to allow the necessary extension of the thigh-bone. A wetted cloth is now passed round the thigh, directly above the knee, and over this the leather strap appUed, to which the pulley is to be fixed. The extension is now to be made in the line of the limb, that is, brought across the other thigh, a little above the knee. As soon as the head of the bone has been brought on a level with the acetabulum, by the assistants, who are making the extension, the surgeon is to force it mto the cavity of the acetabulum, by pressing on the great tro- chanter, or by rotating the knee gently outwards. ^Mien there is difficulty in bringing the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum. Sir A. Cooper raises it by placing his arm under the joint. The disappearance of aU the symptoms, and the noise made by the head of the bone, when it slips into the acetabulum, denote that the reduction is effected. This noise, however, is not always made, whenDISLOCATIONS. 643 pulleys are used. The bone is afterwards to be kept from slipping out again, by tying the patient's thighs together, with a bandage placed a little above the knees. The patient should be kept in bed at least three weeks, use moderate diet, and have the joint rubbed with a camphorated lini- ment. Due time must be given for the lacerated ligaments to unite, and the sprained parts to recover; premature exercise may bring on inflammation, and irremediable disease in the joint. In this dislocation the head of the femur rests on the dorsum of the ilium, covered by the gluteus maximus and medius, having lacerated some of the fibres of the gluteus minimus; the small muscles about the joint, viz. the pyriformis, gemelli, obturators, and qua- dratus femoris, are either torn or put on the stretch; the psoas magnus and iliacus internus are also extended, and some of the neighbouring vessels and nerves injured. Dislocation backwards into the sciatic notch.—This dis- location is caused like that on the dorsum of the ilium, but when the thigh is somewhat more advanced. In this case, according to Sir A. Cooper, the head of the femur is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the upper edge of the sciatic notch and the great sciatic hgament, being behind the acetabulum, and a httle above the level of the middle of that cavity. Symptoms.—The limb is generally not more than half an inch shorter than its fellow, and the knee and foot are turned inwards. The thigh inclines a little forwards, the knee is slightly bent, and the limb is so fixed that flexion and rotation are, in a great measure, prevented. The other symptoms of the dislocation are the same as those of the displacement of the dorsum of the ilium, but are not so distinctly marked. The head of the bone is felt with difiiculty from its being sunk in the sciatic notch, and the great trochanter is removed further from the spine of the ilium. Reduction: The pelvis being fixed, the extension IS to be made downwards and forwards, across the middle of the other thigh, so as to dislodge the head of the bone while the surgeon, with a napkin placed below the tro- chanter mmor, elevates the upper part of the femur to- wards the acetabulum. Dislocation upwards and forwards on the horizontal ramus of the pubes.—This accident occurs when the thighSURGEKY. 644 is forcibly extended, that is, brought behind the vertical line of the trunk; as, for example, a person, whilst walking, puts his foot into some unsuspected hole, he throws his body suddenly backwards to preserve his equilibrium, and the head of the bone starts forwards on the pubes. Symp- toms: The limb is rotated outwards, and cannot be turned inwards, it is shortened by an inch or an inch and a half, the trochanter major is nearer the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum than natural, the head of the bone forms a tumour in the groin above the level of, but under Poupart's ligament, on the outside of the femoral artery and vein, where it can be distinctly felt. By the stretching of the anterior crural nerve, which lies over the neck of the bone, great pain, numbness, and even paralysis are liable to be produced. The knee is generally carried backwards. Reduction: The extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, so as to draw the thigh bone back- wai'ds, and when that has been continued for some time, a napkin is to be put under the upper part of the bone, and its head lifted over the pubes and edge of the acetabulum. Dislocation downwards and forwards into the obturator foramen.—This accident occurs when the thighs are widely separated, the force being applied on the inner side of the limb, the pelvis being fixed, or at its upper part near the joint, when the foot rests against the ground. Symptoms: In general, the limb is one to two inches longer than its fellow, the head of the femur being lower than the aceta- bulum; the trochanter major, which is less prominent than natural, is removed to a greater distance from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the thigh is flattened in consequence of the elongation of the muscles. A hard round tumour is felt at the inner and superior part of the thigh towards the perineum. The leg is slightly bent, and the foot is brought forwards, but turned neither out- wards nor inwards, stiU there is variety in this respect. The body is bent in consequence of the tense state of the psoas and iliacus muscles; the knees are widely separated. Reduction: Place the patient on his back, separate the thighs as widely as possible, and place a girth between the pudendum and upper part of the thigh, fix the girth to a staple in the wall placed on the side of the patient corresponding to the injured limb, and then take hold ofDISLOCATIONS. 645 the ankle of the dislocated limb and draw it over the other leg, or if the thigh be very large, behind tlie sound limb, when the head of the bone usually slips into tbe socket. Take care not to advance the leg too much, as the head of the bone would be forced behind the acetabulum into the sciatic notch, from which it would be extremely dilB- cult to remove it. This accident is termed the consecutive dislocation of the hip-joint. In the dislocation into the foramen ovale the head of the bone rests between the obturator hgament and obturator externus muscle, which is the only muscle relaxed in this dislocation. Two other modes of reducing this dislocation are resorted to and recommended by surgeons. One plan consists in placing a large bed-post between the thighs with the perineum well supported, then making a fulcrum of the post and extending the limb upon and around it. The other plan consists of using simple extension of the limb by means of pullies, so as to remove the bone from the obturator fossa and that then the muscles by their natural efforts and direc- tion, may restore the licad of the bone to its proper situation JJupuytren has described a congenital dislocation of the hip-joint in which the head of the femur on one or both sides IS dislocated on the dorsum of the ilium of the fcetus in utero. The femur becomes dislocated from disease, as in morbus coxarius. The brim of the acetabuhim is some- times fractured in conjunction with a dislocation of the head of the femur. The dislocation being reduced, the limb should be kept completely at rest, and compresses applied, so as to preserve the broken bones in appositioa until union has taken place. Some other rare dislocations ot the hip-joint have been met with by surgeons: viz dis- location downwards on the tuberosity of the ischium" dis location backwards on the spinous process of the ischium" and upwards and forwards between the anterior suS and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium IhdocaUon of the patella.-lh^ patella may be luxated in two directions, namely, outwards'and inwards Dislo- c^Uon outwards is much more frequent, being aused by the oblique direction inwards, in which ho rectus f nlris muscle descends to the patella, and the ligament'im pa eZ at the same time passing outwards; wlfen, therlre tli^ muscle contracts, it tends to bring all these pir'to a646 SUBGEEY. straight line, and thus the bone is dislocated outwards. The patella may be thrown outwards by falls on its inner edge. Symptoms: The dislocated bone is felt on the outer edge of the external condyle of the femur, the limb ap- proaches to a state of extension, and the motion of the knee is limited. Reduction: Raise the limb nearly to a right angle with the trunk, so as to relax the extensor muscles, and then press the patella inwards. Dislocation inwards is of rare occurrence; it is caused by falls or blows on the outer edge of the patella. A dislocation upwards of the patella, accompanied by a rupture of thehgamentum patellee, is described by some. It is only a retraction of the bone upwards, caused by the action of the extensor muscles, when the ligament is ruptured. Dislocation of the knee-joint.—^he knee may be dis- located either forwards, backwards, inwards, or outwards. These accidents are caused by great violence. They are easily recognised by the projections of the heads of the bones, and are reduced without diflaculty, by moderate ex- tension and pushing the tibia to its natural position. Hei/s dislocation of the knee-joint.—This accident, called by Mr. Hey the internal derangement of the knee- ioint is now considered to be a displacement of one or both'condyles of the femur from the corresponding semi- lunar cartilages, most frequently the internal. This acci- dent is, in general, caused by the point of the foot, whilst everted, striking forcibly against any projection, when pain is immediately felt in the knee, and the patient becomes incapable of perfectly extendmg the leg. It has also occurred by a sudden twist of the knee-joint. Symptoms: When no contusion has occurred, or the effects of it are removed, the joint, with respect to shape, appears uninjured. If there is any deviation from its usual appearance, it is that the ligament of the patella seems more relaxed than that of the sound hmb. ihe leg is readily bent or extended by the hands of the sur- geon, and without pain to the patient; at most the degree, of uneasiness caused by this flexion and extension is trifling. But the patient himself cannot freely bend nor perfectly extend the limb; in walking he is compelled to walk witb the knee slightly ilexed. Yet, though the leg is stifl m walkin'' it may be freely moved whUe the patient is sittmgDISLOCATIONS. 647 down. Reduction: Place the patient on an elevated seat extend the joint, place one hand above the knee, and with the other move the leg suddenly backwards, so as to make as acute an angle as possible, and the cartilage slips into its place. Dislocations of the anMe-joint.—The tibia is dislocated from the astragalus in four directions, viz., imvards, out- wards, forwards, and backivards. Dislocation inwards is combined with fracture of the fibula, and is generally known as Pott's dislocation or fracture. It has been de- scribed particularly when treating of fractures. Disloca- tion of the tibia outwards is of rare occurrence. It is caused by the wheel of a heavy carriage passing over the leg or by a violent twist of the foot inwards, as in iumping or falbng. Symptoms: The foot is thrown inwards its outer edge resting upon the ground, and considerable iDro- jection IS made by the malleolus externus under the skin deduction: Relax the gastrocnemii muscles, draw down the foot in the axis of the leg, and push the lower ex- tremity of the tibia mwards towards the astragalus. The internal malleolus is always broken in this dislocation, and most frequently the external malleolus also. It is the most dangerous of the dislocations of the ankle-ioint, from the great violence required to produce it Dislocation /bnW*.—This arises from the body falling backwards whilst the foot is confined, as in jumpiL from a carriage m rapid motion with the toe pointed forwards Symptoms: The foot appears much shortened and fixed" and the toes pointed to the ground. The lower end of the tibia forms a hard swelling on the middle of the tarsus ihe heel appears lengthened, and there is a depression before the tendo-achillis. Reduction: Place theCatS in bed on his back, let an assistant grasp the tS ft Its ower part and draw it towards the bodv whilst Si, pu is the foot in a line from the leg, then push he t^Sk back, so as to bring it into its proper nlacP D,, Vu after-treatment the foot should be keot ben^ ?^-*^ angles with the leg, so as to prevent a ^ cuiSncf o?fhe accident. In this dislocation the tibii vpZT^ ■ lar and internal cuneiform bone t e fib ,,1,^^ three inches above the externTmn 1. i 7'-^ forwards with the tibia. S t,wfmavb7 ? n 'T^^ xue uDia may be partially dislo-SUKGEUY. 648 cated forwards on the one half of the astragalus and os naviculare. Its symptoms are the same, but not so well marked as the complete dislocation. Dislocation backwards has never been seen by Sir A. Cooper. The tarsal hones are sometimes, but rarely dislocated. The astragalvis is most frequently displaced, generally forwards, and to one side, either inwards or outwards. The luxated bone should be reduced, if possible, by ex- tension and making pressure on the bone itself; where this cannot be efiected, the integuments over the displaced bone generally slough, exfoliation takes place, and ampu- tation may become necessary. When the bone protrudes through the skin and cannot be reduced, it should be at once cut away and the wound be closed. The phalavt/es of the toes are sometimes dislocated, and the first bone of the great toe is frequently luxated from the first metatarsal bone: these cases are not attended with any remarkable symptoms, and are reduced without difficulty. Dislocations of the clavicle.—The clavicle is more fre- quently dislocated at its acromial than at its sternal end. The sternal extreiuity of this bone is subject to be dis- located in two directions, viz., forwards and backwards. The dislocation forwards is much the more frequent. It is caused by falls on the shoulder. Symptoms: The end of the bone forms a distinct swelling on the fore and upper part of the sternum, and if the fingers be carried upon the surface of the sternum upwards, this projection stops them. Reduction: Place the knee ngainst the spine and draw back the shoulders, when the bone at once shps into its place. This dislocation is treated by the applica- tion of the clavicular bandage, the arm being supported in a sUng. In this case, the hone never returns to its original position eutirelv; consequently, when it occurs to a young lady, it is prudent to state that there will always be some deCormity. Dislocation backwards has only been seen as a con- sequence of disease of the spine. In one case the end ot the bone pressed on the oesophagus, and was removed with the saw. . Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle, ims takes place in but one direction, that is, upwards andDISLOCATIONS. 649 backwards, and is caused by falls on the shoulder Symptoms: The shoulder drops and falls inwards towards the thorax, the end of the bone projects, and may be felt by running the fingers along the spine of the scapula when they will be stopped by the projecting bone. Re- duction : Place the knee between the shoulders, and draw these backwards and upwards. This accident requires a pad in the axilla, and that the arm should be supported in addition to the use of the clavicular bandage. This ac- cident generally leaves some deformity. Dislocation of the shoulder-joint.—The head of the humerus may be dislocated in three directions, viz. Downwards and imvards, into the axilla. Inwards and forwards, under the pectoral muscles Backioards, on the dorsum of the scapula. Dislocation dowmvards and inwards into the axilla - Ihis IS of more frequent occurrence than aU the other dislocations of the body united. It is caused by falls on the upper part of the arm or on the inner side of the head of the bone being then drawn downwards by the action of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major muscles. Symp o The acromion projects, the natural rotunditv of the shoulder IS lost, by the deltoid being flattened and drawn down with the head of the bone, the arm is elon fs with rKffl'^? K'''''r'''^l*'^^'^^ axilla, the elbow hnl h ^T^^^ ^'^ ^'^^ the head of the bone being pressed in the attempt, against the axiUary plexus, and from its being hitched against the lower edZ of the g enoid cavity, the elbow-joint is flexed the fore arm and hand are swollen and supported by the oppos te" £=;oMtl^-cJ'^^^^^ passed over it, with a slit in if , '^Y a bandage bucWed over the ac^^^i ' V tZTuV'"' up m the .xiUa, and more eomplSw fl ' ?ll =° T' arm to a little above a rialit angle 28SURGERY. 650 with the body, so as to relax the deltoid and supra-spina- tus muscles. Malce extension from the arm, and counter- extension from the scapula bandage. After the exten- sion has been made a few minutes, the surgeon should place his knee in the axilla, resting his foot on a chair on -which the patient sits, and raise his knee by extending his foot; and placing his hand at the same time on the acromion, he pushes it downwards, when the head of the bone usually slips into its place. If the dislocation be of long standing, the pulleys will be necessary. In recent dislocation, and especially in delicate persons, the reduc- tion may be effected by placing the knee in the axilla, and making, extension with one hand from the arm of the patient, whilst the other presses down the shoulders, or by placing the heel in the axilla, as follows: Lay the patient on his back, either on abed or sofa, and bring him near the edge of it; make extension from the arm by means of a wetted roller passed round it, sit on the edge of the bed, place your heel in the axilla, and extend the arm; the dislocation will be reduced in a few minutes. Another plan adopted by some is to make the patient lie down on a mattress; then the surgeon, standing behind his head, places one hand on the spine of the scapula to fix it, and with the other hand raises the arm of the patient upwards in a line with the body, and the head of the bone soon slips into its socket. Some practice this proceeding with the patient sitting up, and thus reduce the dislocation with great ease. In this dislocation the head of the humerus rests on the inferior or axillary border of the scapula, or rather be- tween it and the edge of the subscapularis, some of whose fibres are, in general, torn from the bone immediately beneath the neck of the scapula, having the long head of the triceps posterior to it. The capsular muscles of the joint are usually torn or much stretched, the deltoid and long head of the triceps are extended, the pectorahs major and latissimus dorsi relaxed. The circumflex nerve is not unfrequently lacerated, or otherwise injured, caus- ing a paralysis of the deltoid. Dislocation uptvards and fonoards under the pectoral nmscZes.—This accident takes place when the arm is thrown rather behind the centre of the trunk. Symptoint:DISLOCATIONS, 651 The projection of the acromion appears greater from the depression of the deltoid being more considerable. There IS a prominence to be observed beneath the middle of the clavicle, and, on rotating the arm, the head of the bone may be felt to roll, the elbow is thrown from the side and at the same time, carried backwards, and the motions of the arm are more confined than in the dislocation into the axiUa. Reduction: The dislocation is reduced by the same means as are used in the dislocation into the axilla. Ihe extension should be made by first drawing 1, /T.i, 1"!""^^ downwards and backwards, until the Jiead ot the bone has passed the coracoid process, then it may be raised in a horizontal direction, when, by con- irT^ii ^'f''''' P'^«^"^^ «f tlie heel in the axiUa. the bone will be easily returned. la this dislocation the head of the humerus rests on the second and third nbs beneath the clavicle and internal to the coracoid process. _ Dislocation backwards, on the dorsum of the scapula IS of rare occurrence. It takes place when the arm is brought forwards in front of the central line of the trunk It IS readily distinguished by the projection of the head of the bone, and by its foUowing the movements of the elbow when rotated. lu reducing this dislocation, the arm should be drawn forwards. The head of the humerus rests n th s dislocation, on the dorsum of the scapula, immel ely beneath Its spine, and covered by the infra-spinatus ^ A subluxation of the head of the humerus, in which the bone rests beneath the edge of the glenoid Cavity and he coracoid process, is occasionally described asVfou th dislocation of the shoulder-joint. It presents mo.t nf S°"^It is^/^'Tf 'T -'" "butT mi or^ likely to be confounded with f ctures if the " the neck of the scapula, and of tl n ok of the^J^^^^^^^ Bislocations of the eZW^^^.-^irelbow 1 T'. to SIX dislocations, viz. subject Both bones backioards • The TaA\m forwards; The radius backwards.652 Dislocation of both radius and ulna backwards.—This is the most frequent displacement of the elbow. It is caused by the person, when falling, putting out his hand to save himself; but the arm not being perfectly extended, the whole weight of the body is thrown upon the radius and ulna, and they are forced behind the axis of the humerus. . . „ , Symptoms: There is a considerable projection, formed posteriorly by the ends of the bones, and above this a depression; there is also another projection on the tront of the ioint, formed by the end of the humerus, and below this a depression; on each side of the olecranon there is a hollow. The forearm is shortened and m a state of supination, and cannot be pronated, and is fixed at nearly a right angle. , • ^ t. Reduction.■ Place the patient sittmg on a chair take hold of his wrist and put your knee m front ot the elbow-ioint; then bend the forearm, and at the same time press upon the radius and ulna with the knee, so as ■ to separate them from the humerus, and throw the coronoid process of the ulna from the posterior hunieral fossa, where it is lodged. Whilst the pressure is kept up by the knee, tlie arm is to be forcibly, at the same time gradually, bent, and the bones will sbp into their places After the reduction, the elbow should be kept flexed In this dislocation, the coronoid process is lodged in the posterior humeral fossa, the head of the radius hes on the back of the external condyle. The hum rus descends on the anterior surface of the radms and ulna, as far as the insertions of the bracliialis anticus and biceps wilf admit of This accident is frequently confounded with fracture of the humerus a little above the elbcm. Some surgeons have recourse to simple extension and state that it^s the most natural and ^^^^^^ific mode of reduction: but the plan above memtioned is most success- ful where assistance cannot be had. Lateral dislocation of the elbotc-The radms and u^a may be thrown to either side; the displacement is known bv the great projection on either side of the joint, in the luxation outwards the coronoid process res s on the posterior surface of the external condyle, and the radius forms a projection to its outer side; in the dislocation653 DISLOCATIONS. inwards the ulna lies on tlie back of the internal condyle, and the head of the radius is lodged in the posterior humeral fossa. The dislocations are reduced like that of both bones backwards. Dislocation of the ulna alone backwards.—In this dislocation, the deformity of the limb is very great, the forearm and hand being twisted inwards, whilst the olecranon projects backwards. The forearm cannot be extended, nor can it be bent to more than a right angle. Its reduction is more easily accomplished than that of both bones backwards, and is effected by similar means; the forearm being drawn downwards and at the same time outwards, so that the radius may act as a lever by resting against the external condyle. Dislocation of the radius forwards.—This accident happens from a fall on the hand, when the arm is ex- tended, and the radius receives the weight of the body; or by blows on the ulna, which fracture this bone and thus force the radius forwards. Symptoms: The forearm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper, nor can it be perfectly extended; when bent suddenly flexion is stopped by the head of the radius striking against the fore part of the humerus. The head is between pronation and supi- nation. By carrying the thumb into the fore part of the elbow-joint, and rotating the hand at the same time, the head of the radius will be felt to rotate also. Reduction: Supinate the hand, bend the forearm, and make extension from the hand without including the ulna. In this dislocation the head of the radius rests on the fore part of the humerus, immediately above the external condyle. Dislocation of the radius backwards is very rare. Sir A. Cooper has seen but one such dislocation, and that in the dead subject. It may be reduced by bending the forearm and making extension at the same time. Dislocations of the wrist-joint.-Hhere are'four dis- locations of the wrist-joint, viz. of both bones backwards or forwards, of the radius forwards, and of the ulna backioards. Dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards is caused by falhng on the back of the hand, by which the bones are driven on the dorsum of the carpus. Symptoms:SURGERY. 654 A projection behind, formed by the ends of the radius and ulna, and a depression below this; a projection in front, formed by the carpus and a depression above it. Dislocation of both bones forwards is caused by falls on the palm of the hand. In this the swelling in front is formed by the radius and ulna, that behind, by the carpus; the depressions are beneath the former, above the latter. Both these dislocations are reduced by making extension from the hand. Dislocation of the radius forwards. — In this case the outer side of the hand is thrown backwards and the inner forwards. The extremity of the bone forms a pro- tuberance on the fore part of the wrist. It is reduced by making extension. Dislocation of the ulna backwards.—The ulna is some- times separated from the radius by the rupture of the sacciform ligament, and usually projects backwards. It is known by its projecting on the dorsum of the os cuneiforme, by its being easily returned by pressure to its former situation, and by its rising again when the pressure is removed. When the bone has been returned, place a compress of leather on its extremity and splints on the forearm, so as to keep the bone in its place. Take care that the pressure on the end of the bone does not cause sloughing of the skin. Dislocation of the bones of the carpus.—The bones of the carpus are rarely dislocated. The os magnum is the one which is most frequently displaced and in general backwards. It is caused by falls on the hands. After the reduction of the bone has been eflfected, straps of adhesive plaster should be bound tightly round the wrist. The metacarpal bones are seldom dislocated, except from extreme violence, as the bursting of guns, &c. These cases usually require amputation. Dislocation of the phalanges of the fingers are rare. When the accident does occur, it is more frequently found between the first and second phalanges, than between the second and third. It can be readily ascertained by the projection of the first phalanx backwards, while the head of the second can be felt on the fore part, although less distinctly. It is reduced by extension, inclining the joints slightly forwards at the same time.DISLOCATIONS. 655 Dislocations of the thumb.—The metacarpal bone of the thumb is sometimes dislocated from the trapezium, and most frequently inwards. It is detected by the pro- tuberance formed towards the palm of the hand, by the thumb being bent backwards, and not allowing of being brought towards the little finger. The dislocation is reduced by making extension, at the same time bending the thumb inwards, so as to relax the flexor muscles, which are the most powerful. In the dislocation back- wards the protuberance is formed on the dorsum of the os trapezium. Dislocation of the first phalanx.—The first phalanx of the thumb is generally dislocated on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone, by falls or blows on the extremity of the phalanx while partially flexed. Symptoms: The end of the phalanx forms a projection on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone; whilst this projects inwards towards the palm of the hand, the first phalanx is forcibly extended or bent backwards, the second is flexed. Reduction: This is one of the most diflicult dislocations to be reduced. In order to relax the parts as much as possible, the hand should be soaked for a considerable time in warm water, a piece of wetted wash-leather is to be closely wrapped round the first phalanx; a tape, about two yards in length, should be fastened on the leather, with a knot which will not shp, such as sailors call the clove-hitch : an assistant should now firmly press on the metacarpal bone, by putting his middle and first fingers between the forefinger and thumb of the patient, and thus make counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, inclining It at the same time a little towards the palm of the hand If this should not succeed, the foUowing plan may be adopted:—In addition to the apparatus already employed let a strong worsted tape be carried between the meta- carpal bone and forefinger, bend the forearm round a bed-post and let the tape be firmly tied to it, so as to prevent the hand yielding when extension is made To the tape surrounding the first phalanx a pulley is to be applied, and extension made, which will generally succeed. Forcible flexion backwards will sometimes reduce tlie dis- location when all other attempts have faded. Various656 SURGERY. operations h&ve been- recommended to effect reduction when other means have not succeeded, such as division of the lateral ligament, the cutting across the long flexor tendon, or removing the head of the metacarpal bone; but these plans have been so frequently followed by serious consequences, as to render their adoption in- judicious. Dislocation of the second phalanx will be best reduced by grasping firmly the back of the first phalanx with your fingers, and placing the thumb on the fore part of the dislocated phalanx, then bending it on the first as much as you can. Dislocations of the lower jaw.—The lower jaw is subject to two species of dislocation, the complete and partial. Complete dislocation is when both condyles are thrown forwards into the zygomatic fossa. This accident is caused by falls or blows on the chin, when the mouth is widely opened, or by opening the mouth widely, as in yawning, laughing, &c. Symptoms: The mouth is widely opened and cannot be closed; the lower teeth are on a line anterior to the upper; the saliva flows from the mouth in consequence of the irritation of the parotid gland, and the patient being unable to swallow it. There is a depression in front of the meatus auditorius, from the absence of the condyloid process, the ramus of the jaw inclines upwards and forwards, and the coronoid process may be felt in the interior of the mouth. The face appears elongated, and the patient complains of pain, from the stretching of the inferior dental nerve, and the muscles attached to the jaw. Reduction: Wrap a silk handkerchief round each thumb, place these in the mouth on the last molar teeth, depress the jaw posteriorly whilst you raise it anteriorly, and, at the same time, press it backwards. In less recent dislocations it will be neces- sary to place two corks, one on each side, between the molar teeth of the upper and lower jaws, and then elevate the chin anteriorly. AVhen the dislocation is still more difficult of reduction, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, when more force may be exercised in raising the chin. In this dislocation the condyles are lodged in the zygomatic fossa, and the coronoid processesDISLOCATIONS. 657 in front of or immediately beneath the edge* of the malar bone. In the partial dislocation of the lower jaw, one condyle only is thrown forwards. The symptoms are much the same as the preceding, except that they are not so sti-ongly marked ; the lower jaw is thrown, also, to one side, so as to give the face a twisted appearance; the teeth of the lower do not correspond to those of the upper jaw. It is reduced, like the complete dislocation, the force being applied to one side only. There is a subluxation of the lower jaw, which takes place in persons of a delicate relaxed constitution. In this the condyle slips from the interarticular cartilage. The displacement should first be reduced, and the relaxed habit of the patient then removed by the use of tonic medicines. When a dislocation is combined with fracture, the dislo- cation should be at once reduced by applying the extending force above the fractured part. Dislocations of the spine.—These accidents are produced only by great violence, as by falls from a height. Dislo- cation of the vertebrae rarely if ever takes place without a fracture, except in the cervical vertebrae, and particularly between the first and second. The injury is always the more serious the nearer it is to the head. Sympto7ns: Paralysis of the parts of the body below the seat of injury, caused by laceration of the spinal marrow; pressure upon It by the displaced bones, or by eff"usion of blood into the spinal canal; involuntary discharge of faeces, and retention of urine or stillicidium urinae shortly before death ; flatu- lent distension of the abdomen from eff"usion of air into the cavity of the intestines, and a constant erection of the penis, named priapism. These accidents are usually fatal. In injuries of the lower cervical vertebrae, death takes place in a few days; but if the fourth, or any vertebra above It, be injured, death is generally instantaneous, from the paralysis of the muscles of respiration. In injuries below the origin of the phrenic nerve, hfe may be supported for a short period. A person having a fracture of the dorsal vertebree commonly lives about a fortnight or three weeks. When the lumbar vertebra, have been in- jured the patient may survive for some months. The spinal marrow is subject to concussion from falls or violent 28 §SURGERY. 658 blows -without the spine being injured. The symptoms are the same as those described as resulting from laceration or pressure on the spinal marrow. The operation of removing the displaced portions of the vertebrae, in fractures of the spine, has been performed, but as yet without success. The treatment to be adopted consists in the local abstraction of blood by cupping or leeches, the opening of the bowels by means of purgative medicines or enemata, and the drawing the urine by the catheter. Ulceration of the mucous membrane of the bladder and sloughing of the nates are frequent results of injuries of the spine. Concussion of the spinal marrow should be treated anti- phlogistically, and calomel be administered as rapidly as possible, so as to prevent the disorganisation of the spinal marrow, and cause the absorption of any fluids that may have been eflfused. ON COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. When a joint is dislocated, and a wound communi- cating with the articulation has been at the same time inflicted, the accident is called a compound dislocation. Compound dislocations of the large joints are usually fatal, or require amputation. When the smaller joints are afi"ected, as the anlde, elbow, &c., the displaced bones should be reduced if possible, and the external wound closed. When this cannot be effected, the wound should be dilated ; and if this does not succeed, the end of the replaced bone should be sawn off", and the parts replaced. In gunshot wounds of the articulations, the removal of the broken ends of the bones has been found very suc- cessful, in many cases superseding amputation. A similar practice has been resorted to in cases of diseased joints, and with rather considerable success, especially by Mr. Syme of Edinburgh. ON ANEURISM. An aneurism is generally defined as a pulsating tumour containing blood, and commimicating ivith the interior of an artery. Although this definition will be found to include the greater number of aneurismal tumours, yetANEURISM. 659 some ■will be met with to which^it is not strictly ap- plicable. Thus large aneurisms, after some time, lose their pulsation, in consequence of the interior of the tumour becoming nearly filled with successive layers of coagulated blood, which have the effect of resisting the impulse of the artery, and thus prevent it from being dis- tinguished externally; an aneurism, formed by a dilatation of the capillary veins, does not possess any pulsation, and in the aneurismal varix no distinct tumour exists. In difi"used aneurism, the pulsation is either very indistinct or altogether wanting. Aneurisms are met with most frequently in the adult subject between the ages of thirty and fifty, and oftener in the male than in the female. Yet no age is whoUy exempt from them, as they have been met with before puberty, and in the old subject; indeed, the disease of aneurism by anastomosis does appear first at or imme- diately after birth, and a wound of a large artery at any period of life may be followed by the formation of an aneurismal tumour. The cause of the greater frequency of aneurism in the adult is the great liability there exists at this period of hfe to the deposition of steatomatous, atheromatous, or ossific matter between the internal and middle coats of the artery; this portion of the vessel bemg thus deprived of its elasticity, is more exposed to the impulse of the heart, and thus gives way either by bemg gradually distended, or by the rupture, first of the mternal, and then of the middle coat of the vessel, when the only remaining coat, the cellular, not being possessed of sufficient resistance, yields, and thus gives rise to the formation of a tumour. To this may be added, the greater exertion of the adult exposing the vessel to greater violence, and the disturbance of the circulation produced by mental or other afi-ections, more frequent at this period othte. In the young subject this diseased state of the vessels seldom exists; in the old subject the arterv has become so extensively diseased from the deposit of ossific matter, that the vessel at once gives way,^ud the blood being extravasated in large quantities into the sui- rounding parts, death ensues without the formation of any aneurism. Several divisions have been made of aneurism, varying660 SUKGEEY. according to their mode of formation, their situation, or other pec .liarities. Tlie most important of these are: 1st. Into the true and/aZse aneurism.—T'?'Me aneurism is that in which the tumour is formed by all the coats of the artery, which, having gradually yielded, form the coverings of the aneurismal swelling. False aneurism is that in which the internal and middle coats have given way, and the coverings of the aneurismal swelling are formed by the cellular coat of the vessels or surrounding cellular substance, or both, united by the adhesive in- flammation. As either of these forms of aneurism may be met with in any part of the body, they have been divided,—2dly, into internal and external aneurisms. Internal aneurisms are those which form in any of the cavities of the body, as the thorax and abdomen, and generally afiect the aorta, or some of its principal branches. External aneurisms are, on the contrary, confined to the vessels of the ex- tremities, the neck, or external part of the head. As the blood may or may not be confined in a cyst, aneurisms are divided,—3diy, into circumscribed and dif- fused aneurism. Circumscribed aneurism is that in which a distinct sac exists, which confines or circumscribes the blood. In diffused aneurism the blood is, on the contrary, diffused, or extravasated in the surrounding cellular tissue, in consequence of a wound or rupture of aU the coats of the artery, or the bursting of the aneurismal sac, so that a circumscribed may ultimately become a difi'used aneurism. . 4thly. Traumatic and spontaneous aneurism. — The former of these divisions is produced, as the name implies, by the wound of an artery, the latter without such, appearing either spontaneousfy, or from some very trifling cause, and in almost all cases preceded by a diseased state of the vessel, which has given rise to the aneurismal tumour. Although these divisions of aneurism may appear tedious, they will be found by the student here- after to be exceedingly useful, as they establish an arrangement of the disease in his mind, especially as the nature, the formation, and the situation of the disease have much effect on its diagnosis, treatment, and ultimateANEURISM. 661 termination. Whilst the diagnosis of an external aneurism is in general simple, that of an internal aneurism has frequently baffled the most skilful of practitioners : we may resort to an operation in most cases of external aneurism, but such treatment is impossible in the greater number of the internal. In the case of the traumatic aneurism we may tie the artery close to the tumour; in the spontaneous aneurism such treatment is inadmissible, as we tie a diseased vessel. To the above divisions of aneurism may be added the aneurisjnal varix, varicose aneuris7n, dissecting aneurism, and aneurism hy anastomosis, all of which will be con- sidered when we shall have completed the more important forms above alluded to. The larger arteries are much more liable to disease of aneurism than the small, and those of the lower than those of the upper extremities; thus Mr. Hodgson has found that, in sixty-three cases, twenty-one were of the ascending aorta, arteria innominata, and arch of the aorta, seven of the descending aorta, two of the carotid artery, five of the subclavian and axillary, twelve of the inguinal artery, fourteen of the femoral and popliteal; of all these, seven only occurred in the female subject. The arteries of the leg or forearm are rarely the seat of aneurism. If we trace the formation of an aneurismal tumour from its first existence, we shall find that, as soon as the internal and middle walls have given way, the blood passes beneath the cellular coat of the vessel, and thus raises it so as to form the swelling; the cellular coat affords a slight barrier to the blood for a short time, but soon yielding, would in its turn burst, and thus cause the death of the patient by * ■ the sudden haemorrhage, were it not that the violence done to the surrounding parts by the distension excites adhesive inflammation, which throws out coagulable lymph; this- causing the adhesion of the neighbouring structures,' forms the aneurismal sac, and prevents for a further time the distension of the swelling. The tumour having now attained a moderate size, but varying, as is evident it'nnist, according to the resistance of the surrounding tissue, and the greater or less density of the cellular substance, becomes distinct if situated near the surface of the body or extremity, and is in a condition best adapted to theSUEGEEY. 662 forming of a correct diagnosis on the part of the prac- titioner. If the tumour be now examined, it will present all the symptoms characteristic of the disease. Thus we recog- nise a tumour possessing a pulsation corresponding to the systole and diastole of the heart, and at each im- pulse of this organ not only pulsating, but undergoing a considerable increase in size, to be distinguished in many cases by the eye, but in all by the practitioner grasping the tumour in his hand, and making slight pressure on it at the same time. This alternate distension and dimi- nution of the tumour is produced by the ingress and egress of the blood into its interior at each beat of the heart. By compressing the tumour it may be made to disappear altogether, or diminish in size, from the fluid blood being forced from it back into the cavity of the artery. On compressing the artery leading to the sweUing, the following symptoms present themselves: the tumour loses its pulsation and disappears, but again becomes manifest as soon as the compression is removed. Pressure on the artery below the tumour has the efi'ect of causing an increase in its size and pulsation. At this period the integuments covering the tumour are free from any dis- coloration, and the patient feels Uttle or no uneasiness from the disease. Occasionally sUght pain exists, but this is not serious until the disease attains a larger size and presses on some of the surrounding nerves. On applying the ear or the stethoscope to the aneurismal swelling, a distinct blowing or purring sound is frequently heard. It is only when aneurism appears at or near to the surface, so as to be exposed either to the eye or the touch, that a correct diagnosis can be hoped for; when the aorta is the seat of the disease, no distinct symptoms present tliemselves, until the tumour approaches the surface, the only pain present being produced by the pressure of the tumour on the surrounding organs, and which gives rise to a complexity equally distressing to the patient and embarrassing to the practitioner. This may be called the first stage of aneurism. Let us now proceed to the second or more advanced stage. The blood being impelled into the aneurismalANEURISM. 663 tumour by each systole of the heart, it gradually enlarges by the giving way of the parietes of the sac, and their gradual absorption. Each structure becomes absorbed as it presents itself, bone, cartilage, or membrane. Car- tilage is not so rapidly removed as bone, from its yielding to the pressure of the tumour, and being less highly organised than osseous substance. The tumour is, how- ever, prevented from bursting by the adhesive inflam- mation preceding the process of absorption, and enlisting m Its service each successive structure, until it contracts adhesion to the skin itself. The tumour differs now in many particulars from those present in the first or early stage. As the blood passes into the interior of the enlarged sac, and becomes more and more removed from the agency of the heart, it coagulates, and deposits in the aneunsmal' cavity successive layers of coagulated fibrin, by which the tumour becomes firm, yielding but little to pressure either apphed to it or the artery above it, and loses its distinct pulsation, and that remarkable distension of it at each systole of the heart. StiU, as some fluid blood is contained in the aneunsmal sac, it is capable of a slight diminution ot size, on pressure being properly appUed. The in- teguments now become partially discoloured, and the surrounding nerves being compressed by the swelline: the patient begins to suff-er the most excruciating pains shooting up and down the limb in the course of the nerves. The parts below the tumour become swollen and edematous, and the veins distended from the pressure of the tumour on the absorbent and venous trunks The patient s limb, if it be one of the lower extremities that is the seat of the disease, "feels asleep," to make use of a common expression, and the integuments assume a bluish red appearance, and diminish in temperature. It is in this stage of the disease that the case most frequ nt y falls under the observation of the sur-eon "'^quenciy Should the disease be neglected, it rapidly advances to Its hird or last stage. The tumour, now meetb" with but little resistance from the integuments, spSs u evetv direction, its interior becomes filled with iLe masselTf coaguk. It loses its pulsation, and gradually makes its way through the skin. This n« ^^'y "laivts its hernmPQ r^,..h V i i ^ disease advances, becomes much discoloured; from a slight blush firstSURGERY. 664 observed on its surface, the colour increases in depth and extent, until at length it assumes a dark red or livid hue. The aneurism now threatens to burst. One portion of the tumour, frequently, but not always, its centre, be- comes more deeply coloured, and more pointed than the rest; over this point the cuticle becomes detached, and a slough forms in the cutis, which gradually yielding, at length admits of the escape, first of a portion of the contents of the sac, and then of the fluid blood. The haemorrhage may be restrained at first, but soon returns, and at no distant period puts an end to the life and the sufferings of the patient. This is the course of an aneurism which protrudes and bursts externally. When the tumour opens on a mucous surface, as into the stomach, intestines, &c., the same process is observed, but not so when it makes its way through a serous membrane; this latter yields by a rent or fissure being made through it. This, although the general, is not the invariable termi- nation of an aneurismal tumour when left to nature ; it is possible that a spontaneous or natural cure may take place, and the patient recover. This may be effected by the complete filling up of the aneurismal sac with coagu- lated blood. The sac then compresses the artery, and causes its obliteration. A cure may be also produced by the aneurismal or other tumour being forced upon the artery leading to the disease, thus causing its obliteration as if a ligature had been appHed upon it. Cases of spon- taneous cure have also occurred from inflammation and sloughing of the sac and neighbouring parts, in which process the artery becomes obliterated, and the slough ultimately thrown off. Sloughing of the aneurismal sac is, notwithstanding, more to be dreaded than hoped for, as but few constitutions could bear up against the numerous trials that such a process exposes them to. On making a post-mortem examination of an aneurismal tumour, the skin is found extremely thin, and confounded as it were with the sac. The cells of the cellular sub- stance are filled with serum, or obliterated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles are stretched, displaced, and many of them wholly or partially absorbed. The neighbouring nerves are displaced, and where they have been subjected to the pressure of the tumour, are flattened, spread out.ANEURISM. 665 and inflamed, and are frequently so changed as scarcely to admit of recognition. Lastly,, the cartilages and bones are removed, the bones presenting a rough irregular appearance, and the cartilages as in the intervertebral substance of the spine, projecting beyond the osseous structure. The interior of the sac is nearly filled with coagulated blood, the outer portion of which is arranged in concentric irregular laminae of fibrine of a whitish col QUI-, which gradually diminishes to the centre of the sac, where the blood is in clots of a dark venous colour. The opening from the artery into the sac varies much in size, and presents its edges smooth and continuous (apparently) with the parietes of the sac, or in some places jagged and irregular. As a mistake in our diagnosis of an aneurism is one of the most serious to which the surgeon is exposed, much caution is necessary in coming to a correct conclusion on the subject. In the second stage 'but little difficulty exists, at least when the aneurism has approached the surface; but not so in the more advanced stage. We have already said, that in this the aneurismal sac being filled with coagula, loses its pulsation; how likely, then, is the practitioner to mistalce it for a fungous or other tumour, or a chronic collection of matter, and either plunge his lancet into its interior in the latter case, or proceed to the operation of amputation in the former. It is sufficient to say, that such unfortunate mistakes have occurred. Again, other tumours may have a pulsation commu- nicated to them from a neighbouring artery, and may be mistaken for an aneurism. Where we can draw the tumour from off the artery, the pulsation ceases, and the error is thus avoided, but this we cannot always effect: a chronic abscess may present itself in the lumbar region, and have a pulsation communicated to it by the aorta, or there may be no pulsation in it, and yet how are we' to decide? In many cases the fluctuation of the matter will be such as to distinguish, but this is not always pre- sent. So great, indeed, has the difficulty been found in some cases, that the surgeon is obliged to pass a grooved needle mto the swelling, and thus ascertain its nature by the escape of its contents along the groove. If the tumour666 STJKGERY. be aneurismal, the wound should be immediately closed, and appropriate treatment adopted. In most cases the alternate contraction and enlargement of the tumour at each pulsation of the heart, and its capability of being diminished in size by pressure, or by stopping the flow of blood into it, will be found of much value in aiding us to form a correct diagnosis. TKEATMENT OF ANEURISM. The treatment of aneurism may be comprised under the two heads of medical and surgical. Internal aneurisms, at least those which affect the aorta, can only be treated medically, or by those medicines which act through the medium of the constitution. The great object which we should have in view in the treatment of these affections is the lessening the force of the circulation in order that we may thus by moderating the heart's action retard the increase of the aneurismal sac, and dispose the blood to become coagulated in its interior, and thus produce its cure by obliteration. Although it is but in a few instances indeed that we can hope for so desirable a consummation, yet we shall by so doing relieve the sufferings of the patient, and prolong his life to a much longer period than if the case be left to nature. For this purpose, strict rest and a moderate regimen should be enjoined, and the action of the heart moderated by occasional bleeding from the arm, and by the use of digitahs either in the form of tincture, of which six to ten minims may be given three times a day, or in powder, of which one to two grains may be ex- hibited at a dose. The occasional use of opium will also be found beneficial, as also the local abstraction of blood by means of leeches or cupping. General bloodletting should not be carried further than from eight to ten ounces at a time and that at reasonable intervals, as it is our object to avoid fainting and prevent reaction. We should at the same time not repeat it too frequently, as we may otherwise induce a state of irritation more likely to frustrate than conduce to the object we have in view, and bring on a dropsical state of the patient, which frequent bloodlettings are known to induce. A generous use of food has been recommended by some in order that an additional quantity of fibrine may be667 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM, formed in tlie blood, and thus dispose to its deposit in the aneurismal sac. When an internal aneurism attains a large size and approaches the surface, as it frequently does, either on the anterior or posterior surface of the trunk, the use of cold applications will be found beneficial in restraining the inflammatory action of the skin. When the sac is likely to burst, the life of the patient may be prolonged by the use of adhesive straps, bandages, &c. External aneurism also may be treated on a similar principal, and by the application of a ligature on the artery leading to the tumour. In these aneurisms we are in general enabled to try the effects of pressure previously to resorting to an operation. Of external aneurisms the popliteal is the most frequent; it occurs in persons who from their avocations retain the limbs in the flexed positions, as in postilions, &c. The artery appears in such to accommodate itself to the flexed position of the joint; under these circumstances if any vio- lent exertion of the limb be made, the vessel gives way, and the aneurism is formed; yet the disease frequently appears in persons who have not been exposed to one or other of these causes. We shall select then a case of popliteal aneurism, and from this point out the treatment to be adopted in most cases of external aneurism. When the patient first presents himself, he is seldom in a fit condition for the attempting of any surgical measures ; by a few days' rest and the antiphlogistic regimen, such a change will be effected as wdl enable us to proceed with more active treatment. Compression should first be tried: this is to be effected by means of bandages applied round the limb, commencing at the toes, each of which should be included, as far as is possible, in a distinct bandage; the leg is then to be carefully bandaged, and a graduated compress being placed over the aneurismal tumour, the bandage is to be carried upwards round the thigh to the pelvis, one or more compresses being placed on the course of the femoral artery. By these means the blood will be prevented from entering the sac, its contents will become more solid, and the sides of the artery being compressed together, its obliteration may be expected. Notwithstanding that this plan of treatment has been frequently adopted, it has been seldom found successful;668 SUKGEUY. indeed there is but one situation in the human body, namely, at the bend of the elbow, in which we can expect success. Here the artery is superficial, it rests on the lower part of the humerus with the intervention of the brachialis anticus muscle, the nerve does not interfere with the compression, nor is there any resisting fascia, or other structure, to bear it off from the vessel. Not so with the popliteal artery; for the vessel here lies deep: the poph- teal nerve is superficial, and runs almost directly in the course of the artery, and the popUteal fascia with the hamstring tendons resist any compression we can be justified in resorting to; the vein too may be compressed at the same time and thus retard the return of the blood from the lower part of the limb. Independently of these circumstances, the aneurismal tumour may be in such a condition as not to admit of compression, its size may be too great, or the integuments covering it may be in an inflamed and painful state. "When compression is resorted to, the constitutional remedies recommended in the treatment of internal aneurism should be employed. When the tumour appears to diminish in size, its pulsation becoming less distinct, and the limb less painful to the patient, we may expect a favorable termination; on the contrary, if the patient's sufferings are increased, and the integuments of the sac become inflamed without the tumour altering in size, the use of compression is not only hkely to be of no avail, but actually prejudicial, as by a perseverance m its adoption, gangrene of the sac or limb may be the con- sequence. Compression of the artery at a distance from the tumour, has been practised during the last five or six years with considerable success, so much so as to warrant a trial of it in most cases of popliteal aneurism. Pressure is not applied in the mode above discribed but by means of a tourniquet (named Italian and others) which by means of two pads presses upon two points only, namely upon the artery and opposite side of the limb, the inter- vening parts being free to allow of the collateral circula- tion. In some cases the pain is excessive beyond the patient's endurance, in others it causes sloughing of the skin, but in many has been perfectly successful '«'ithm a short period, sometimes as little as six or seven days, ine669 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. cure is effected by the obstruction to the passage of the blood from the main trunk into the aneurismal sac. The artery beneath the tourniquet becoming closed and sub- sequently the sac itself. Compression having failed, the operation for aneurism is to be resorted to. This, the greatest improvement in modern surgery, consists in applying a ligature round the artery leading to the tumour, but at a distance from it. The ancient surgeons were in the habit of cutting through the aneurismal sac, and tying the artery immediately above and below the opening in its parietes; but as they thus secured a diseased vessel, their operations were almost always followed by secondary heemorrhage, from the sloughing of the artery previously to or immediately after the separation of the ligature. Fortunate indeed was the patient considered who recovered with an anchylosed knee-joint. John Hunter first tied the artery at a distance from the disease, and thus, although his operations were not generally successful, (from his not tying the vessel sufficiently remote from the disease,) paved the way to the improvement suggested by Scarpa, of applying the ligature at a still greater distance, viz., in the inguinal region, or, as it is frequently called, Scarpa's triangle. The artery, let us say the femoral, being exposed, it is gently separated (in order that we may not injure the vasa vasorum ), from its surrounding connections, and the ligature passed round it, taking care to avoid the vein and nerves. The ligature is now to be drawn tightly around the artery, and secured with a double knot, one end being cut short, the other is to be brought out at the wound, which being closed with adhesive plaster and bandage, the patient is to be removed to bed and placed in the recumbent posture, with the knee and thigh supported on a pillow, so as to relax the vessel. In the course of from ten to fourteen or twenty-one days, the ligature separates, the wound closes, the aneurismal tumour loses all pulsation and finally disappears, and the patient recovers the perfect use of the limb. But let us trace more minutely the successive changes which take place before this favorable termination. The ligature having been firmly tied divides the internal and middle coats of the artery, the circulation is thus stoppedSURGERY. 670 in its interior, and the blood is forced upon the anasto- mosing branches, which then gradually enlarge and carry the blood into the part of the vessel below the ligature. It thus enters the artery a second time and makes its way into the aneurismal sac, which again begins to pulsate. This is found to take place generally on the second, third, or fourth day after the operation, and is looked on as a favorable symptom, as it proves the establishment of the collateral circulation. Although the blood thus enters the sac a second time, the cure is not prevented but rather facilitated, as this fluid enters into it in such a feeble stream, from its having passed through the anastomosing branches, and from the same cause having approached to the venous character of blood, whereby its coagulation is more likely to take place; the sac is soon filled with coagula, and thus presses on the diseased artery and causes its obliteration. Before this, however, has taken place, the anastomosing branches have become enlarged, and thus conveying the blood in sufficient quantities to the tibial vessels, the circulation is re-established. The contents of the sac and possibly the sac itself, are gradually, e. in a few months, absorbed, and a small hard tumour alone tells its former situation. As these changes are going forwards, the hmb is to be carefully attended to, for the stoppage of the circulation is found to cause a diminution in its temperature, and by lessening its vitality weakens its powers of resisting external agents, such as cold, &c. The hmb should therefore, immediately after this operation, be enveloped in cotton or flannel, and external warmth be applied, if necessary, by means of warm bottles. In the apphcation of the latter remedies, some caution is required, for if used to excess they will stimulate the parts beyond their power of action, and induce mortification. Moist applications should be particularly guarded against, as the evaporation that ensues is highly prejudicial. The eflects and mode of separation of the ligature on the artei7 are both curious and interesting; the internal and middle coat having been cut through, and the current of the blood in the interior of the vessel arrested, this fluid is thrown on the anastomosing branches; a coagu- lum now forms in the interior of the secured vessel both671 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. below and above the ligature; it is of a conical shape, with the base towards the ligature, the apex in the contrary- direction, and extends as far as the next anastomosing branch of importance; by degrees the vessel contracts, the lacerated edges of its wounded coats become inflamed, and throw out coagulable lymph, which, causing their adhe- sion, seals up each end of the artery, which then contracts still further, and finally becomes obliterated as far as the extent of the coagulum. The ligature escapes in the following manner: that portion of the vessel inchided in the knot forms a slough, which is gradually detached by the process of ulcerative absorption separating it from the living parts of the vessel; the ligature now is easily with- drawn, or makes its way outwards with the discharge, and the portion of the outer coat embraced by it. We have stated that pulsation returning to the tumour on the third or fourth day is considered a good symptom; when however it appears within twenty-four hours after the operation, it is unfavorable, as indicating (supposing the artery to have been properly secured) the existence of some irregular branch which has conveyed the blood almost directly to the tumour. Such cases should be treated by the use of moderate compression, strict rest, and the antiphlogistic regimen, by which means a suc- cessful issue may be obtained. A limb, on which the operation for the cure of aneurism has been preformed, presents, on examination, in some months or years after the operation, the following ap- pearances : the tied artery has degenerated into a liga- mentous cord upwards, as "far as the next important anas- tomosing branches, and downM'ards through the thigh and popliteal space, as far as the origins of the tibial vessels, oc- casionally a small portion of the artery between the Hgature and popliteal space remains pervious; into tliis the blood is poured, and is again removed by anastomosing branches. The circulation is carried on by the anastomosing branches,' a number of which at first become enlarged, but most of them gradually diminish in size and number, until two or three of the largest arteries are left to perform the ofiice. They present a remarkably tortuous appearance. The operation for the cure of popliteal aneurism may tail in consequence of the supervention of secondarySURGERY. 672 hiEmorrhage, mortification, the formation of abscesses along tlie course of the artery, the too free anastomosis of vessels with the sac, and from constitutional causes. 1. Seco7idary hcemorrhage occurs sometimes immediately after the operation, from the ligature not having been properly secured, or applied to the vessel. If such should be the case, the wound should be opened, and the artery properly secured. It more frequently occurs at a more distant period, viz. either towards the close of the first week, or about the time of separation of the hgature; in the former case the vessel tied has been most probably in a diseased state; in the latter also this may be the case, or the adhesive inflammation may not have taken place, either from some defect in the constitution, inflam- mation of the wound, or from the artery having been tied too close to an anastomosing branch, by which the formation of an internal coagulum, and the subsequent contraction of the vessel have been prevented. The bleeding commences in small quantities, the blood being of a dark colour, escaping without a jet, and in general issuing from the lower ex- tremity of the vessel. Compression should first be tried, and if this fail, the artery should be tied still higher up. This secondary operation seldom succeeds, as the con- stitution of the patient is not in a fit state for its perform- ance, and the lining membrane of the artery is in general inflamed from the previous operation. Secondary haemor- rhage, from the point at which the artery has been last tied, in general terminates the patient's sufieriugs on the fifth or sixth day. 2. Mortification may attack either the Umb or the aneurismal tumour. In the former case it proceeds from deficient circulation, and commencing at the toes spreads upwards to a variable extent; the toes alone may suffer, or the whole limb as far as above the tumour may perish. Mortification appears in the course of four or five days after the operation, and is indicated by the deficient temperature, and insensibility of the part, on which dark lines, succeeded by a black spot, frequently appear, fol- lowed by tiie formation of vesications, and other symptoms of gangrene. When the gangrene is partial the efforts of nature need not be interfered with, but when extensive, amputation is to be resorted to. In performing ampu-TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 673 tation after the operation for the cure of aneurism, the circulation should he previously commanded by every means in our power, as the anastomosing branches having become enlarged, and most probably having lost their contractihty from over distension, pour out the blood in large quantities from innumerable orifices. Mortification of the sac in general occurs where the tumour has been of considerable size. Should the efforts of the patient's system be insufficient to throw off the slough and estabUsh a cure, amputation is to be per- formed. 3. The formation of abscesses along the course of the vessel should be prevented by pressing out the matter carefully, and then placing compresses and bandages along the course of the artery; if these means should not be effectual, a counter-opening must be made at the most depending part. The effects of a too free anastomosis have already been mentioned. Under the head of constitutional causes, may be enu- merated the bursting of internal aneurisms, disease of the lungs, or other vital organs, erysipelas, &c. Many other plans have been recommended for the securing of the artery beyond the aneurismal tumour, such as numerous ligatures, metallic wire, and instruments of various descriptions. They have been all found in- judicious. We need hardly remind the young surgeon that pre- viously to resorting to the operation for aneurism, a care- ful examination of the patient should be made as to the state of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the existence of internal aneurisms, &c. Where an aneurismal tumour is so large that it is likely to impede by its pressure the formation of the collateral circulation, and especially when the tumour is in an inflamed state, amputation is to be preferred. Aneurism at the bend of the elbow, most frequently the consequence of a wound, is now generally treated bv cutting down upon the tumour, and tying the vessel above and below the wound. Whatever deviation from this lino of treatment, a circumscribed aneurism (in which we have a sac to confine the blood, and thus assist us in our efforts,) may admit of, it is now I believe the almost uni- 29674 SUKGEEY. versal opinion, that diffused aneurism should be treated by this plan alone. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism are nearly- similar; they are both caused by a wound in -which both the artery and vein are implicated; the two vessels being in close apposition, a communication is established between them, and thus the arterial blood passes into the veins of the limb. On examination, the veins are found much distended, the extremity swollen, and of a darker colour than natural, the artery above the communication beats violently, its branches below this point pulsate feebly, by applying the ear over the seat of communication a bruit de soufflet, or sometimes a hissing or purring sound, is heard. If in the case of aneurismal varix or varicose aneurism at the bend of the elbow, a ligature be applied round the forearm, and the veins above this be emptied by pressure, they will immediately fiU again. The difference between aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism is this, viz.. in the former, there is immediate contact between the' two vessels, and the blood flows directly from the artery into the vein; in the latter there is a communication between the two vessels, but there is a sac interposed. Thus the blood flows from the artery into the sac, and from the sac into the vein. This gives rise to some difference in the treatment. An operation may be resorted to in varicose aneurism where the sac theatens to burst, but no operation is admissible in aneurismal varix. The treatment best adapted to both affections is that of moderate compression by means of bandages, and the keeping the limb as much at rest as possible. Bissecting aneurism was first described by Mr. Shekleton, and more lately by Mr. Guthrie; it is pro- duced by the blood making its way between the coats of an artery passing down within the sheath and then entering the vessel at some remote point. The treatment is the same as that for spontaneous aneurism. Amurism by anastomosis, {ncevus matermis.)—ihi& disease consists, as its name implies, of a dilatation ot anastomoeing or capillary vessels; or, according to others, is composed chieflv of a number of cells, into which tlie blood is poured by the arteries, and from which it is removed by the veins. It appears in general on someTREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 675 part of the head, at or immediately after birth, as a bright spot on the skin, or as a small tumour immediately beneath it, the skin being likewise engaged. Sometimes the disease remains through life -withoutgiving the patient uneasiness; but more frequently it enlarges in size until it causes great deformity and inconvenience. Should it continue to increase, the integuments become thinned, and at length giving way, a discharge of blood takes place, which, if not restrained, may prove fatal. The disease is easily distinguished, being subcutaneous; the tumour is of a bright-red or sometimes livid colour, attended generally with pulsation, and feels, when com- pressed between the fingers, like a "bag of earth- worms." Aneurism by anastomosis may be divided into the arterial, venous, or mixed, according as the- tumour is formed of arteries, veins, or both these vessels. The venous is of a darker colour than the arterial, and does not possess pulsation; it is not so liable to sudden increase, and is therefore not so dangerous an affection. The mucous membranes are the seat of this disease, as -well as the ekin. The treatment recommended for aneurism by anasto- mosis is exceedingly variable, as follows: Excision of the tumour, taking care to cut beyond the diseased mass, for if cut into, its vessels do not contract, and violent haemorrhage is the consequence. Tying the artery leading to the tumour.—Ihxs, opera- tion IS falling into disuse from the very partial success that has hitherto attended its adoption. Passing one, two, or more setons through the tumour and allowing them to remain until they have induced intlammation, which, terminating by efi-usion of Ivmnh into the cells of the tumour, causes their obliteration and the removal of the disease. ' The introduction of vaccine virus at different points of the tumour, which acts on similar principles. The passing of a^needle through the tumour, and obliterating'finali^ a sSoflrY-^'-'P/^''^ '^"'""^""^ it causes neatl Inf„ i U^""' "'A^'"^^ory action is set up under- neath, and a healthy condition of parts often supervenes.G76 SURGERY. Needles armed -with a double thread are passed througli and under the nsevi in different directions, and then the needles being withdrawn the threads left behind are so tied together as to encircle and strangulate the vessels of the parts. This plan has many advocates. To which we would add the injection of some stimu- lating fluid into the cells of the tumour. Many cases of neevus, if attended to in time, will be • cured by means of cold applications and moderate com- pression. A form of aneurism, in which the lining membrane of artery becomes protruded through a rupture of the middle and outer coats, has been described, but it is indebted for its existence to the ingenuity of experimenters on lower animals. ON VARICOSE VEINS. Veins are said to be varicose when they become perma- nently dilated and the circulation is so far retarded in them that their cavity is filled with dark coloured blood. The veins of the lower extremities, the spermatic and hcemorrhoidal \ems, are.more subject to this disease than veins in other parts of the body. A varicose state of the veins is produced by any cause which prevents the due return of the blood ; thus ligatures passed round the Umb, the pregnant uterus, and enlarged liver, are fruitful causes of the disease. There seems to be an hereditary predis- position to this affection in some; and tall persons, par- ticularly those who walk and stand much, are more hable to it than others. Of the veins of the lower extremities, the trunk and branches of saphena major are more frequently varicose, from their superficial course, from being situated immedi- ately beneath the skin, thus wanting the support of the fascia, and from the great length of the trunk. Ihe weight of the column of blood which ascends against gravity, also assists materially in producing the afi"ection. The disease usually commences in the veins about the calf of the leg, generally on the inner side, whence it ascends until it aff'ects all tiie superficial veins of the extremity, in many cases reaching to the trunk of the femoral vein. The patient sufters but Uttle inconveniencetTAEICOSE VEINS. 677 at first, but in the more advanced stages, the varicose vessels become exceedingly painful and the limb swollen and cedematous on using the slightest exertion in the erect posture. The patient is thus often deprived of the use of the limb for some time. In this condition the veins become thick, hard, and tortuous, being much increased in length and in diameter. Opposite the valves which become ruptured, lymph is poured out so as to form numerous hard, painful, and knotty tumours in the course of the limb. Lymph being also effused into the sur- rounding cellular tissue, the veins are often matted to the integuments. The mode of formation of a varicose vein is as follows ; the circulation being impeded in the vessel it becomes over distended with blood, which stretching the coats of the vein destroys the action of the nearest valve; in conse- quence of this, the one immediately beneath having an ad- ditional weight to support gives way, and so it proceeds till all the valves are destroyed. The circulation of the blood in the veins being thus retarded, they become filled with dark blood, inflame, and become thickened in their coats, so that when cut across they resemble an artery. As the disease advances, ulcers form on the limb in the course of the distended veins, and are known by the name of varicose ulcers, being produced in one of the two fol- lowing ways; first, a varix forms in a particular part of the vessel, and gradually increases in size, forming a tumour; the integuments covering the tumour become inflamed and thinned, ultimately give way, when a profuse discharge of blood takes place from the opening which soon degenerates into an ulcer: 2dly, the patient receives a slight blow or scratch, as by the heel of the opposite foot stnkmg the diseased extremity; inflammation attacks the wound, and an ulcer forms. A varicose ulcer is usually situate on the inner side of the limb, a little above the internal maUeolus; it is oval in shape, with its long axis from above downwards • and a thin serous discharge issues from the ulcer- the sur- rounding skin is of a dark red colour; although not usually painful, It becomes exceedingly so after much exertion. Ihe treatment of varicose veins consists in supportim? the distended vessels by means of rollers or a laced678 StJllGERY. Stocking. If an ulcer be present it may be dressed with very dilute nitrate of silver solution or lotio nigra, sulphate of zinc solution, &c., over which straps of adhesive plaster are to be applied, from the ankle to within a short distance from the knee; the limb is then surrounded by a bandage. Bv these means conjoined with strict rest, attention to the bowels and diet, the occasional application of leeches it necessary, the ulcer will be made to heal. _ Various plans have been adopted from time to time tor causin'- the obliteration of the diseased veins, and thus to throw "the venous circulation on the deeper and more healthv vessels. The first of these is tying the saphena veS on the inner side of the knee. This is accomphshed bv cutting down on the vein, and applymg the ligature around it Pressure on the vein in this situation has been recommended with the same view, as also the application of eristic, and cutting out a part of the vessel. AH these ?en^eTes are both dangerous and doubtful; they have often given rise to extensive inflammation of the vein and thus caused the death of the patient: and in the most successful cases have only produced temporary benefit Sr B S-odie recommended the division of the diseased b anc'hes, (selecting a cluster of the largest and most S i vir ces,) by the introduction of a pecuhar knife. ?e'embUng a sha?p-poiuted bistoury, but sharp on its ro;v^x edle; this is passed between the skm and the veUrand the latter are cut across whilst the knife is ;Srawn: this plan is liable to the same objectK,n^ t1,P other though pot in an equal degree. A still more recent plan is tSat'of dividing the branches m the lower nart of the lee, or on the dorsum of the toot. ^ Hons Velpeau has recommended the passing of a needle beneath the varix, and then securing a ligature ■round it so as to cause the obliteration of tbe vessel; S prac ice has been followed with more success than the pUns before mentioned. Inflammation, however, is apt to attack the leg, and must be actively combated. Caustic potsh has been used over the course of the vein generally on the uiside of the thigh, just above the knee^ £ inflammation excited causes an obstruction to he JJeoi blood in the vessels, and thus may efl-ect a cure. £ use has sometimes been followed by fatal phlebitis.679 TUMOURS. Some surgeons relieve their patients much, by applying small pads or compresses to parts of the veins, and re- taining them there, by means of elastic bands. This mild treatment sometimes succeeds. Varicose veins sometimes prove fatal from the rupture of a varis and the profuse hsemorrhage which ensues. As the blood in such cases may escape from both extremities ■ of the vessel, it is necessary that pressure should be applied both above and below the bleeding point. Phlebitis.—The lining membrane of the venous system is subject to inflammation of an erysipelatous character; it succeeds a wound of the larger veins, and spreads rapidly towards the heart. The inflammation is characterised by pain in the course of the veins, which become thickened by the effusion of lymph into their interior and the sur- rounding cellular tissue; they are also very tender to the touch. Abscesses form in the course of the inflamed veins, ac- companied by a fever of a typhoid character, which soon terminates in death. On a post-mortem examination, collections of pus are frequently found in the cavities of the joints, and in the principal viscera, chiefly in the lungs and the liver. The treatment consists in the application of leeches over the course of the inflamed veins and the exhibition of mercury, so as to salivate, if possible, before the inflammation has extended. Phlebitis has frequently ensued from punctured wounds in dissection and post- mortem examinations, especially when the patient has died from puerperal peritonitis. ON TUMOURS. Tumours have been defined by the celebrated John Hunter as follows: " a tumour is a circumscribed sub- stance produced by disease, and different in its nature and consistence from the surrounding parts." Many of the diseases which will be mentioned under this head have been referred to in a previous part of this work, and will therefore be only spoken of cursorily in this division. The arrangement is borrowed from an interesting work on Tumours, by Dr. Warren, of the Harvard University in680 SURGERY. the United States; in some instances the description is copied almost verbatim. Some diseases met with in that country, but not in our own, are intentionally omitted. EPIDERMOID TUMOURS include verruca, clavus, and icthyosis cornea. Verruca, a wart, is too familiar to require much de- scription. Its structure is radiated, inorganised, and it is produced from the vessels of the skin beneath it. It is most common in young persons. It may be removed by caustics of various kinds. The milder preparations will generally succeed if persevered in. Clavus, a corn, is a hard insensible substance, most common on the feet, caused usually by the pressure and friction of a shoe or boot. They are more common in the rich than the poor, and in females than in males. They result from irritation of the skin, which throws out the fluid to form the corn. Sometimes on the great toe a com attains a large size; severe inflammation sets in, and ulce- ration has extended into the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, a disease tedious in its progress and difiicuit to heal. Corns may be removed by the application of acidum aceticum fortius, caustics, frequent bathing in warm water, and many mechanical contrivances, which either remove them or take all pressure off them. Icthyosis cornea consists in the formation of horny tumours in various parts of the body. This disease is unconnected with syphiUs, and does not include those horny excrescences which sometimes attend that afiection. These cases are exceedingly rare. DERMOID TUMOURS include lepoides, keloides, and eiloides. Lepoides (bark-like) is a disease of the skin which pro- duces scaly crusts or bark-like roughness of the skin, most common on the face and in aged persons. It is slow in progress, leads to ulceration, but shortens hfe in no marked degree. It may be removed by caustics or the knife. Keloides (crab-like) is a disease in -which there is a tumour, from which red vascular processes extend, re- sembling crab's-claws. The red colour, however, is notTUMOUItS or THE CELLTJIAR MEMBRANE. 681 present in every variety of this affection. The species are three, first, a white permament elevation of the skin, resembling the eschar from a burn; second, a spider-Hke pimple on the face; the keloides of Alibert. Eiloides (coU-like) is a disease in which there is an elevation of the skin in the form of rolls or coils. It occurs in scrofulous habits, is inconvenient and dangerous, but is at the same time extremely rare. Molluscum, described by Dr. Bateman, might be classed under the head of dermoid tumours. It consists of nu- merous pendulous tumours, connected most with the skin of the head and face. It yields to no medicines. TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR MEMBRANE. Steatoma (a wen) is a tumour which varies considerably in size, from that of a pea up to many pounds in weight. Its external surface is smooth and regular, its consistence firm; the colour of the skin is not altered, and no pain attends it; generally it is moveable under the skin and on the surface of the muscles over which it lies. Its colour is slightly yellow; it is inclosed in a cellular coat, from which processes pass into the tumour, separating it into lobules. A steatome occurring in the shoulder and neck has sometimes a softer consistence. This tumour does no harm, except by its local inconvenience. There is no remedy for it but excision. The cellular tissue is liable to the formation of tumour, having a fibrous arrangement. Its colour is whitish, con- sistence firm, and texture laminated. It causes incon- venience, chiefly by its mechanical effects interfering with the free motion of the muscles. The painful subcutaneous tubercle has been described as a swelling of a nerve, or at least as a tumour pressing upon a nerve. It is hard, and generally of a small size, and seldom produces any elevation of the surface. There is no discoloration of the skin, but much pain beneath it of a variable character. It is most common in the lower extremities. Sometimes inflammation attacks the part affected, suppuration and ulceration ensue, which have been known to destroy life. Generally it is not of a malignant character, but still is difficult to relieve. 29 §682 SURGERY. MUSCULAR TUMOURS. These are found in the substance of muscles, and are of rare occurrence. They are little evident externally, are slightly moveable in the relaxed state of the muscle, but fixed when the muscle is contracted ; when operated on, a large portion of muscle requires to be removed. Encysted muscular melanosis is very rare. The tumour formed by it, when cut into, exhibits a hard dark-coloured substance, containing a nucleus of osseous matter, sur- rounded by a dark-coloured fluid, inclosed in a black crust. It has not assumed a malignant character. Scirrhous muscular tumour has been seen in the practice of Dr. Warren, it arose in the rectus muscle in consequence of a blow. After being removed by the knife, it presented a cartilaginous hardness; its colour was brownish, its texture was granular intermixed with fibrous organisation, and around it the vessels were much enlarged. Malignant melanosis is characterised by a hard tumour, internally of a black colour; the constitution suffers, and puts on the cancerous diathesis. Fungus hamatodes occurs in muscles, seldom, perhaps never, as a primary aff"ection. It assumes the same cha- racter as elsewhere. There is first an irregular swelling with some pain. The swelling increases and points through the skin, which gives way, and a quantity of blood is dis- charged ; an oozing continues till a dark-coloured fungus protrudes of considerable diameter, and elevated above the surface; frequent hsemorrhage takes place, the disease ex- tends to the neighbouring glands, and the patient dies from exhaustion. It requires removal by the knife in an early stage. TUMOURS OF THE TENDONS. Tendons are rarely enlarged in the form of tumours. They may be thickened by rheumatism and syphilis ; but a tumour of these is generally the result of powerful mus- cular action. Such tumours are hard, generally not painful, insensible, and difficult to remove. They may injure the motion of the limb by their mechanical pres- sure.683 OSSEOUS TUMOURS. PEEIOSTEAL TUMOURS. The periosteum becomes thickened from the effect of blows, rheumatism, and syphilis; but this does not come under the character of periosteal tumour. Tumours or excrescences of a permanent nature are sometimes produced from the condyles of the humerus and OS femoris. They somewhat resemble exostosis, but are not" of a bony nature. They are semitransparent, have a cartilaginous aspect, and occasionally contain a little earthy matter. They differ from periosteal exostosis in the fol- lowing respect, viz., they are diffused, irregular, and mo- derately hard, and may diminish and disappear. They sometimes occur on the dorsum of the foot, from the pressure of the boot, and require removal by the knife. OSSEOUS TUMOURS. These are divided by Sir A. Cooper into periosteal and medullary. Periosteal exostosis is characterised by hardness, re- gularity, slow growth, and want of sensibility. The point of attachment is narrow, resembling a neck to the tumour. If removed by operation, they are very prone to be repro- duced, unless a considerable portion of the bone from which they arise be removed. Medullary exostosis arises in the cancellous structure of bones, principally the long bones, and in scrofulous subjects. It first produces lameness, then an uniform swelling of the affected part, which increases very rapidly. The skin is only discoloured by the veins which become enlarged. The surface of the tumour feels hard, but on careful examination a number of soft spots may be found. In a short time ulceration takes place, and a quantity of watery pus with white flocculi, is discharged, the constitu- tion is soon worn out by the disease, unless it be removed by amputation. Maxillary exostosis of the spongy texture. This dis- ease affects more frequently the upper jaw, periosteal ex- ostosis the lower. It is a hard tumour of a rounded form, appearing on the outer surface of the bone, producing pro- minence of the cheek, if it is large. It is not discoloured nor painful, enlarges rapidly in young subjects, and often684 SUEGEEY. begins in the bottom of the alveolar cavity. It may be mistaken for the vascular tumour of the alveoli; mechanical removal is the only effectual remedy. Osteosarcoma (osteo-medullary tumour of Mr. Travers). This is a hard tumour which arises from periosteum or bone. In external appearance, it has a firm consistence, a rounded form, and seems to bury and involve the bone from which it is derived. Its colour varies from that of the skin to a red, and it exhibits enlarged veins over its surface; when it acquires a large size it becomes more elastic and soft; the pain attending it is not acute, but of an aching character. The surface is tuberculated, which is characteristic of it; the inequaUties are caused by masses of unequally thickened periosteum. In its interior it does not present bony plates or cartilaginous septa. The con- stituents of the tumour are the bone on which the tumour is placed, the periosteum, the medullary fungus contained in the periosteum, and a fluid in some cells which are found in the centre. It appears to take its origin chiefly from inflammation of the periosteum. This disease gene- rally does not afiiept the system at large by any maUgnant quality, and may with propriety be removed by the knife; if left to itself, ulceration will ensue, the integuments slough, and the patient is gradually exhausted. In some cases the lymphatic and other glands have fallen into a fungoid degeneration. It is distinguished from exostosis by wanting its hardness; common periosteal tumour, by its regular form and greater size; scirrhous, by being closely connected with the bone; medullary exostosis, by wanting the basket- like sm-face occasioned by the layers of bone and membrane. GLANDULAE TUMOUES. These include tumours of lymphatic, secreting, mucous, and sebaceous or oleaginous glands. Tumours of lym- phatic glands may be divided into scrofulous, scirrhous, and fungoid. Scrofulous tumours are simple enlargements of the glands, most frequent in the neck, groin, and armpit; they have an ovoidal form, ai-e in clusters, seldom painful tillGLANDULAR TUMOURS. 685 they pass into a state of suppuration; they then redden, become painful, break, and discharge a flocculent cheesy- looking matter, and continue to discharge for a long time. Scirrhous lymphatic glands may be divided into non- malignant and malignant. The non-malignant scirrhous tumour is hard, globular, not discoloured, nor painful; its hardness is permanent, and it steadily increases in size, generally single, sometimes double, and even clustered, as in the axilla. On examination the tumour is covered with one or more coats formed by the surrounding cellular tissue and producing a cyst. The interior presents a white firm centre, from which matter of the same kind radiates towards the surface; and between these, a reddish sub- stance resembling the healthy structure of the gland. The term scirrhous is used here merely to express their hard- ness ; for they are not malignant and might be left alone, were it not for their mechanical inconvenience. Malignant tumours of lymphatic glands admit of a divi- sion into scirrhous mahgnant and fungoid. The scirrJious malignant disease begins with glandular induration, with much hardness but little soreness or pain at first; after some months, pain is perceived, other neighbouring glands become affected, the patient begins to lose flesh and strength, the glands become much enlarged, the pain in- creases and particularly affects tlie back if the tumour is situated in the groin, watery effusion takes place in the thorax, abdomen, and extremities, and the patient gra- dually sinks. Sometimes the original tumour ulcerates and produces a painful, unsightly sore. Thefunffoid disease of lymphatic glands is less frequent than the scirrhous. This is very deceitful and insidious in its progress; at first it is small, has a soft consistence, and its connections are not precisely definable ; without colour at first, it sometimes becomes afterwards of a livid red and may be mistaken for an abscess. If cut into, nothing but bloody water or some blood is discharged; if extirpated It IS likely to appear again in the cicatrix, and gradually affects other glands and the large organs. This disease is said to be distinguished by the softness of the tumour, its tendency to discoloration, its early influence on the constitution, and the extent to which it aflects the lymphatic system. An operation may be triedSURGERY. 686 in the early stage, but is seldom of much avail, as the disease is one which affects the body generally, and is sure to manifest itself in several parts. TTJMOtJRS OF SECRETING GLANDS. These are more frequent in the mamma, testis, and sali- vary glands. Carcinoma is very frequent in the breast, rare in the testis. Fungoid disease, on the contrary, is more common in the testis. TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. These are deserving of great attention, as many of them, not malignant, are often mistaken for cancer. The most valuable remarks upon these are from Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Travers. The former author divides them mto ma- licrnant and non-malignant: of the latter seven species are described, and are, 1, hydatid disease; 2, chronic mammary tumour; 3, cartilaginous osseous tumour; 4, adipose tumour; .5, the large pendulous breast; 6 scrofulous swelling; 7, the irritable tumour. Hydatid tumour. (Vide p. 507.)—In its early stage it is distinguished from scrofulous tumour by its greater hardness, and from scirrhous by more softness. In its advanced stage, it is distinguished by the globular eleva- tions on its surface, by its great size and freedom from pain. Chronic mammary tumour. (Vide p. 507.) . Cartilaginous or osseous tumour is very rare, and is known by its extreme hardness, absence of much pain, and slow progess. , , ^ ^ * Scrofulous tumour occurs in early life, before twenty- five years of age, and is connected with a general scrofu- lous diathesis. The tumour is large, irregular, indistmct not painful, varies in size, increasing and diminishmg at different times, it rarely suppurates. Surgical operations are not requisite: it requires mere constitutional remedies. , Irritable tumour occurs before the middle age in deli- cate and irritable habits. The tumour is not large nor well defined, but painful; sometimes accompanied witn general swelling of the breast and fever, which subside and leave the original tumour. It is not mahgnaut. The adipose tumour occurs in fleshy healthy females. It is distinguished from the hydatid and scirrhous breast687 TUM0UB3 OF THE BKEAST. bv its great size, elasticity, freedom from acute pain and re- gidar surface; it only requires operation from its size. The large pendulous breast tells its own story, and requires mechanical support. The malignant diseases of the breast are two, viz. scir- rhus and fungus heematodes, also named encephaloid tumour, or soft cancer. . Fuuo-oid disease of the breast is not often seen. It is a disease of early life and a scrofulous habit; it begins with a soft elastic tumour, which increases rapidly, ap- proaches the surface, points like an abscess, and on being opened, discharges a thin bloody fluid. A fungus shoots out from the wound, which sometimes bleeds ; the patient's health becomes impaired, the lungs become often diseased, the abdomen swells, the limbs become cedematous, and the patient dies with general dropsy; the disease is consti- tutional and incurable. Fungoid disease is most likely to be mistaken for hy- datid breast, but may be distinguished as follows: Fungus. Often preceded, always attended with constitutional derangement; appears composed of two or three large masses somewhat rounded; superficial veins much enlarged; adheres to the pectoral muscle. Carcinoma or cancer of the breast generally occurs about the age of forty to fifty, occasionally before or after those periods. It seems to be in some degree hereditary, and at all events is a constitutional disease. The tumour is at first of a small size, increasing with variable rapidity; found most frequently in the axillary side of the breast, very hard, moveable at first, afterwards less so; is ac- companied with lancinating pains, sometimes severe, in- creases gradually, contracts adhesions with the skin, produces distortion and drawing in of the nipple, ultimately causes a redness of the skin, followed by ulceration and a discharge of fetid matter; the edges of the ulcer turn out, bleeding occurs, sometimes profusely, from ulceration of the vessels. It is accompanied with enlargement of the axillary glands, swelling of the arm, difiiculty of breathing, cough, abdominal pains, dropsy of the abdo- Hydatid Breast. General health not obviously affected; presents a number of re- gular eminences of a globular form; superficial veins not much enlarged; unattached and pendulous.SURGEEY. 688 men, and thorax, and fragility of the bones. The patient often dies from disease of the internal organs. TUMOURS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. These glands are subject to enlargement, and the sub- maxillary most frequently. The parotid gland is liable to two species of induration, one, more common in the lymphatic glands about it; the other, a genuine induration of the parotid itself. The tumour of the lymphatic glands may be distinguished by its smoothness, roundness, hardness, and freedom from pain; it often suppurates, and sometimes may require extir- pation. Scirrhous induration of the parotid gland begins deeply, and is attended with pain from the pressure on the neigh- bouring parts; it also interferes with deglutition, some- times ulcerates, and has killed by the pressure on the large vessels. The only remedy for it is extirpation, an opera- tion which few would like to venture upon, on account of the important relations of this part. The submaxillar]/ gland is often enlarged from cold, sore throat, measles, but which easily subsides. Scirrhus of this gland is distinguished by its size, hardness, and pain, gradual increase, and impediment to deglutition. This disease requires extirpation by the knife; the sublingual glands in some few cases have been affected with scirrhous enlargement. TUMOURS OF THE THYROID GLAND. This gland is liable to two kinds of enlargement, one named goitre, the other permanent scirrhus. Goitre or bronchocele is a smooth soft tumour, not dis- coloured, not tender nor painful, causing little inconve- nience except from its size. Scirrhous thyroid.—This is a hard tumour of a part of the thyroid, which grows slowly and is not troublesome for some years. Increasing in size and hardness, it be- comes painful, compresses the trachea, oesophagus, and ves- sels of the neck, aud produces difficult respiration. Some- times it ulcerates, forms a cancerous sore, and becomes fatal. It does not yield to medicine, but requires a sur- "•ical operation for "its removal; aud which is one of the689 TUMOURS OF THE TONSILS. most dangerous that can be attempted. The common carotid of the affected side requires to be tied before the operation can be proceeded with. TUMOURS OF THE TESTIS. The best account of these will be found in Sir A, Cooper's Work on Diseases of the Testicle. They may be divided into the non-malignant and malig- nant. The non-malignant tumours are enlargement from common syphilitic or scrofulous inflammation, the hydatid testis, and chronic enlargement. The mahgnant, are fungoid and scirrhous testis; to which may be added cancer of the scrotum. These have been already noticed in the present work, • with the expection of Chimney-sweepers' cancer, which is, however, a disease of the integuments. This begins with a warty excrescence on the scrotum; this increasing becomes sore and ulcerates, and the ulcerated surface is elevated. The cellular tissue becomes diseased, the glands in the groins swell, and the disease, if left to itself, soon terminates the Ufe of the patient. If removed early, the disease may be prevented extending to the deeper parts. TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. Under this head are included those tumours which are connected with, or dependent upon a diseased state of the numerous glands which open upon the surface of the mu- cous membrane. Cancer of the Lip. (Vide Cancer.) TUMOURS OF MUCOUS GLANDS. Chronic enlargement of the papillae and mucous glands, sometimes occurs, but disappears in a short time if the source of irritation be removed. Cancer of the Tongue. (Vide p. 502.) TUMOURS OF THE TONSILS. The tonsils are liable to scirrhous induration; but which is not prone to run into the character of true cancer. Simple chronic enlargement has been spoken of already, (p. 502.)690 SUflGERY. SCIEEHUS OF MUCOUS GLANDS OF THE CAUDIAC ORIFICE OF THE STOMACH. This is attended with difficulty and pain in swallowing, immediate rejection of the food; pain in the epigastric region, and when the disease is advanced, tenderness and sensible tumour in this region. The affected part is found to be much thickened and indurated, and'presents spots with an appearance of ulceration. SCIRRHUS OF THE PYLORIC ORIFICE. In this there is no difficulty of swallowing, the vomiting is less frequent, the ejected matter has a dark colour, there is a sensible tumour often, larger, lower, and more on the right side of the abdomen. It is more common than the disease at the cardiac orifice. The only remedy which relieves the sufferings.much is opium in its various forms. The glands of the intestinal canal wiU also sometimes become affected with scirrhous disease, produce symptoms of dyspepsia, and gradually emaciate and wear out the pa- tient. Scirrhous stricture of the rectum probably takes its rise in the glands of this part of the intestinal canal. TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. The uterus is very subject to organic disease, most com- monly after the age of forty. The mucous glands of the OS uteri are subject to various kinds of induration and tumefaction, vesicular, papular; and scirrhous, arising from scrofulous, venereal, and cancerous affections. Scirrho-cancer of this part begins with induration of one of the labia of the os uteri, consisting of a number of irregularities, probably enlargements, of the mucous glands; the disease is generally first known in the state of ulcera- tion, which is accompanied with an offensive bloody dis- charge and shooting pain. In this stage the os uteri is enlarged and hard, and presents great irregularities and scirrhous tubercles of various forms and sizes. The synip- toms gradually increase; the stomach and intestines be- come affected, and the patient is by degrees worn out. Cauliflower scirrhus of the os uteri is a tumour whichTUMOUBS OF MEMBRANOUS TEXTURES. gradually fills the vagina, and presents many of the symp- toms of the former disease. The fleshy tubercle of the uterus grows to a large size, forming a single or more protuberances. It is not pamful, but becomes so large sometimes as to be easily felt in the abdomen. It does not affect the health much; there is a feeling of bearing down, and some difficulty in passing Fibrous tumour of the uterus consists of an organised mass iu the cavity of the uterus. It has a whitish colour, elastic consistence, and a fibrous texture. This forms without pain; there is suspension of the catamenia; the tumour is subject to changes in size, and in some cases has been supposed to disappear. It is not of a malignant character. FUNGOID TUMOUB OF THE BLADDER. This is first characterised by a discharge of blood with the urine, scanty in the commencement, but gradually increasing in quantity, till it becomes quite exhausting; very little pain attends it; there is a frequent desire to pass the urine, and sympathetic irritation of the rectum with constant desire to go to stool; the disease becomes fatal by the constitutional irritation which it induces. CANCER OF THE PENIS. This disease first appears in the form of a warty excres- cence on the glans or prepuce. It may be distinguished from the venereal wart by being more fleshy and accom- panied with a stinging pain. The crust being removed the sore does not heal, but extends to the surrounding parts and produces a frightful fungous excrescence cover- ing the glans; the glands in the groin soon become afi"ected; the disease extends, and affects the system at large, and soon exhausts the vital powers. The only remedy is removal of the disease by the knife in its early stage. TUMOURS OP MEMBRANOUS TEXTURES. Tumours of mucous membrane are most common in those parts which approach the external apertures, as the rectum, nostrils, and vagina.692 SURGERY. Heemorrhoidal tumours have been treated of. Tumours of the mucous membrane of the nose are named polypi; they have been already described. PIBllOUS TUMOUR OF THE ANTRUM. This disease is comparatively rare : it is of slow growth, begins without pain, and only causes pain by pressure on the surrounding parts. It does not force out the bones of the face like the fungoid disease of the antrum, but rather encroaches upon the orbit and nose; it has a firm consis- tence; brownish-white colour, moderate vascularity, and does not bleed freely. FUNGOID TUMOUR OF THE ANTRUM. This disease is malignant; it begins with uneasiness in tlie nose, the nostril of the side affected becomes obstructed, and there is a feeling like polypus ; there is a red tumour in the nostril, which if lacerated pours out blood, pam is experienced; then an offensive ichorous discharge emerges from the nose, the face swells, the maxUlarybone covering the antrum is protruded, and there is great deformity; sometimes the palate bone is depressed, first towards the mouth, the molar teeth drop out, and there may be a dis- charge of blood, which relieves. Fistulous openings soon appear, the throat may become obstructed from posterior extension of the disease, and the eye may be protruded or buried in the tumour; left to itself, the disease is always fatal. Extirpation of the diseased part affords the only hope of prolonging life, by an operation which in this country, of late years, has been many times performed, es- pecially by Mr. Liston, Hancock, and others. FUNGOID TUMOUR OF THE UTERUS. This is likely to be mistaken for the cauHflower excres- cence of the uterus, which, however, generaUy commences in the OS uteri, and is attended with more pain. Fungoid tumour has a polypous form, and begins m the cavity ot the uterus; the tumour sometimes protvudes so as to fall the vagina. It has an irregular surface, bleeds on exanu- nation, and is frequently attended with an offensive dis- charge. There are two varieties of it, one maUguant, the other not, but very similar in their symptoms; the appli-ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 693 cation of the ligature gives the best although feeble hopes of success in the treatment. TUMOURS OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. Tumours or swellings of this membrane have a soft consistence, producing no discoloration; ■when large, they give some sensation of fluctuation. Not painful on pres- sure, but produce inconvenience by weakening the muscu- lar action of the part. These swellings are brought on by contusions or strong muscular efforts. The House-maid's knee is of this character. A ganglion on the back of the hand causes troublesome symptoms, amongst which is a weakness of the extensor muscles. It has been removed by the sac being ruptured by a smart blow; or the sac may be opened by a lancet, and the wound healed by the first intention. ENCYSTED TUMOURS. These are understood to be tumours in which the con- tents must be of a different texture from the sac, and not of a solid consistence. These contents vary in consistence, from that of a thin liquid to that of soft cheese,—hence the old names of atheroma and meliceris : atheroma mean- ing an encysted tumour, with a thick pap-like substance; meliceris, one containing a fluid as thick as honey, or honey and wax mixed. These tumours may exist in various textures; they vary much in form, size, and organisation. The encysted tu- mour of the eyelid appears more like a diseased sebaceous gland: it may sometimes be dissipated by frequently bathing the eye with water. If they enlarge, they may be dissected out. The black specks often seen on the face, are the orifices of the oleaginous glands. On pressing out the concrete oil, the spot disappears. The encysted tumours of the scalp and back are of the same nature: their con- tents are soft, and often of a peculiar ofi'ensive odour. The cyst is generally soft, and yields easily. They are not malignant, but will sometimes cause inflammation and sloughing of the surrounding parts, a process which nature sets up to remove them. They may be easily dis- sected out with the knife, and every portion of the sac should be carefully removed. When they occur about the694 0 SURGERY. neck, their extent is less defined, and their removal is often attended with considerable trouble. TUMOUR OF THE OVARIUM. There are two varieties of the ovarian tumour, viz. scirrhous and encvsted or dropsical. The scirrhous en- largement is of a d'estructive character, injuring the health and cutting off life prematurely. An operation for its re- moval has been performed in a few cases; and contrary to expectation, some have recovered from it. The danger attending it, however, is so great, that the surgeon is hardly warranted in ever attempting it. The tumour is hard, smooth on the surface, with a few projections, is free from pain, and contains no fluid. The dropsical ovarium attains a large size, but does not generally disturb the health much, except by its mechani- cal effects. It is usually composed of a number of cells or cysts containing a thick brownish, ropy fluid, and in many cases hydatids: consequently, less benefit results from tapping than might have been hoped for. ON SCROFULA. The term scrofula is applied to a morbid state of the human body, which develops diseases of a peculiar nature in various tissues and different periods of hfe. Scarcely any part of the body is free from its ravages, still it shows itself more in glandular than in other parts, and is more frequently noticed in the early periods of life. Scrofula is considered to be hereditary, but not exclusively so, as it will show itself in the progeny of healthy parents, whose frames exhibit no traces of it. A scrofulous constitution is generally observed to exist in those who have a dehcate, fair skin, light hair, blue eyes, red eyelids, thick hps, pro- minent rosy cheeks, and who rather carry with them the appearance of good health: it is also met with, but less frequently, in persons with dark hair, dark eyes and dark complexion. There is no doubt that a scrofulous liabi may be induced by bad living, exposure to cold, and all those agencies which disorder the constitution, and that by care childien born of scrofulous parents may be rendered free from the effects of this disease.695 SCROFULA. The most general and distinctive marks of its nature are the deposition of a peculiar matter in the different tissues resembling white crumbled cheese mixed with a thin yel- lowish fluid, and ulceration of a slow troublesome character which is much indisposed to a healing process. We shall mention in detail a series of diseases in which scrofula has a predominant or partial influence. Some diseases of the scalp of children assume a scrofulous ap- pearance, and porrigo in its various forms is more common in scrofulous persons than others, and receives much benefit from the use of those remedies which relieve scrofula elsewhere. The eye is subject to several modifications of scrofula which have been noticed under Diseases of the Eye. The eyelids are very prone to chronic disease of this kind, after an attack of smallpox; about the face also, we meet with scrofulous enlargement of the alae nasi and lips, which require no specific attention. In the neck, the lymphatic glands are very liable to the deposition of scrofulous matter, which leads to suppuration and to extensive ulceration. This is healed with much diflBculty, and generally leaves behind it extensive marks of its ravages in the form of corrugated unsightly cica- trices. Scrofulous individuals, if minutely examined at the meridian of life, will often exhibit such marks, although they are anxious to conceal them, as if the disease would cast a reflection upon them. When en- largement of these glands is first noticed, there is no redness and little pain, but enlarging by degrees they approach the surface, which becomes red and°inflamed • and by the assistance of ulcerative absorption the surface gives way, and purulent, with the peculiar scrofulous matter makes its escape: subsequently the same process ensues in other glands, and the ulceration extends over a large portion of the integuments, produces deep sores with ragged edges as if bitten, partially covered with a whitish matter somewhat like lymph, and presenting a few flabby feeble granulations. The treatment which we have found most successful in these cases has been the application of the cataplasma conii to the sore ; administer iodide of potassium in doses of from one to tliree grains three times a day, with two or three grains of the extract696 SUKGERY. or pulvis conii, attending at the same time to the state of the bowels, which is best regulated by pulv. rhei with magnesia, and recommending plain, wholesome, digestible food. In some cases the iodide of iron has produced the best effects, but is generally too stimulating and irritating for children. Such sores have been treated with nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper, both in strong and weak solutions, and occasionally with success. There is favor- able testimony of the use of a weak solution of sulphate of copper in healing scrofulous sores. Mercury as a general remedy is injurious in scrofula, and should only be used as an alterative or mild stimulant to the bihary secretion, and to promote (which it appears to do sometimes) the absorption of those remedies which, introduced into the blood and tissues, induce a healthy action. Scrofulous, tedious ulceration of the throat sometimes follows syphilis. Here mercury is of no avail, and may be even mischievous: most benefit results from the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium with decoction of sarsapariUa, with which free iodine or iodide of iron in small doses may be combined. . The breast of the female has already been mentioned as liable to scrofulous enlargement; and when inflammation attacks this structure during suckUng, abscesses will form, and numerous sinuses will be produced, which are difficult to cure. Bland emollient poultices are most suitable, and constitutional remedies are at the same time requisite. Tubercles in the lungs are looked upon as a form ot scrofulous deposit; both on account of their progress, mode of formation, and appearance, and because ot being more common in scrofulous individuals. The mesenteric glands are often diseased in chUdren; they become enlarged, the tubes passing through them are obstructed, and con- sequently the nutritious matter of the chyle does not find its way into the circulation; hence we find wasting of the body generally, but with a tumid abdomen, a condition which is named tabes mesenterica. On post-mortem ex- amination, we find the mesenteric glands much enlarged, and when cut into, they exhibit the curdled flaky sub- stance, which is characteristic of scrofula. In these cases iodine in its various forms is likely to be of service, and hydrargycum cum creta, in moderate doses night697 AMPUTATION. and morning, has obtained the character of an useful remedy. The testicle is liable to scrofulous disease, as before mentioned under Diseases of the Testis. In cases of syphihtic bubo in scrofulous subjects, the sore does not heal rapidly; on the contrary, there is a deep unhealthy wound which gives the surgeon much trouble. The most rapid mode of healing it consists in treating the system generally by preparations of iodine with sarsa- parilla. Chancre in scrofulous people does not admit of the free use of mercury, but is best remedied by the medicines which have been before alluded to. I would remark here, and intend it to apply generally, that the action of iodine and its preparations is stimulating, although in various degrees; and if in feverish plethoric individuals this medicine be employed indiscriminately and harshly, it is capable of doing serious mischief. Scrofula attacks the bones, and more especially the cancellated tissue, in which it throws out matter to fill up the interstices, and so as to cause their enlargement. By this disease synovial membranes are softened and thick- ened, and are converted sometimes into a gelatinous consistence. The brain is sometimes attacked by it, and exhibits large and numerous tubercles. Scrofulous sores upon the skin show themselves in many parts of the body, frequently upon the back and shoulders, sometimes upon the arms and legs. They are very troublesome to cure, and from this circumstance have often been submitted to the treatment of empirics. The plan which I have found to succeed best has been similar to that before mentioned in cases of scrofulous ulceration in the neck; and I feel certain, if the remedies proposed be administered carefully, that better success will be found to attend them than the impatient and inexpe- rienced could have imagined. ON AMPUTATION. Amputation is the cutting off a limb, or other portions of the body, as the mamma, penis, &c. Amputation is divided into the primary and secondary. Primary am- 30698 SUEGEKY, putation is that performed immediately, or as soon after the receipt of an injury, as the collapse consequent upon the injury has gone off. Secondai-y amputation is that iu which the operation is delayed until after the fever, supervening on an injury or disease, has subsided. The following cases call for primary operation: Severe compound fractures, in which the bones are much shat- tered, and the soft parts are extensively destroyed, par- ticularly if the principal vessels of the limb are injured —Extensive, contused, and lacerated wounds, destroying the muscles and integuments of the limb, as of the calf of the leg—Gun-shot wounds, which have carried away part of a limb, and have left an irregular torn wound. Secondary amputation is performed in cases of tnor- tification succeeding a compound fracture, and caused by the local injury, or proceeding from other causes, such as exposure to cold, &c.—Diseases of the joints, as scro- fulous and other affections of the knee, ankle, or other laro-e joints—Exostosis—Necrosis—Lavffe aneurisms— Malignant tumours—Extensive sloughing of the integu- ments, as in erysipelas, and from burns and large ulcers. Amputation may be performed by the circular, double- flap, or single-flap operation. The circular operation is in general preferred in the amputation of the thigh, of the leg in its upper half, of the arm, and of the upper half of the forearm. The double-flap operation is preferred in am- putation of the lower part of the leg and forearm. The single-flap operation is seldom resorted to, unless m cases where a portion of the limb is destroyed on one side, and the flap can be made from the opposite one, so as to avoid the removal of the limb above the injured part. The double- flap operation is preferred by some to the circular, as it is more rapidly performed, and forms a better stump. The principal objections to it are the greater extent of surtace divided, and tiie consequently greater pain given to the patient; the large extent of cut surface exposed, the oblique direction in which the vessels are divided rendering their being tied more diflicult, and when tied more liable to secondary htemorrhage. We shall illustrate these several operations, and the principles that should guide us in their performance, by selecting the amputation of699 AMPUTATION. the thigh in the usual situation, namely, at the junction of its middle and inferior third, or a hand's breadth above the knee-joint, and describe first the circular amputation of the thigh. The necessary examination of the state of the thoracic and abdominal viscera having been found satisfactory, the patient is placed, sup- ported by pillows, on a table of sufficient height. Any hairs should be removed from the thigh, before commencing the operation, as, if left, they cause serious annoyance by the sticking plaster adhering to them during the after treatment. The patient should then be brought to- wards the edge of the table with the limb projecting beyond it, the sound foot resting on a small stool or chair, while the diseased limb is supported in the hands of a careful assistant, who kneels in front of the patient for this purpose. The tourniquet is now applied around the thigh at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, and made secure, the pad and instrument being placed directly over the course of the femoral artery. This instrument, although the best adapted to the purpose, is liable to two objections: first, it prevents the retrac- tion of the integuments after having been divided; secondly, it stops by its circular pressure the return of the venous blood, by which a large quantity of blood is always lost; when it is desirable that this should be avoided, the artery should be compressed, where it crosses the horizontal ramus of the pubes by means of a key, or the handle of a tourniquet covered vrith lint. This method is also to be preferred in amputations high up in the thigh. To prevent the effect of the tour- niquet in arresting the retraction of the integuments, these should be drawn upwards, as much as possible, previously to its being applied. The circulation having been commanded, the operator stands on the right side of the limb of the patient, passes the right hand under the thigh to be removed, and holding the point of the knife in the left hand, drops it into the right; the knife is now to be carried round the limb from heel to point, and the integuments divided down to the fascia, or as Mr. Guthrie advises, through the fascia, by which means the integu- ments retract more freely. The integuments, if not sufficiently retracted, are now to be dissected upwards, to the extent of about two inches, and turned back so as to leave room for the further application of the knife. The muscles are now to be divided down to the bone, or the superficial muscles may be first divided, and then the deeper-seated ones close to their retracted extremities; the former having been found to retract more freely than the latter, in consequence of their attach- ment to the bone. Should an abscess be opened into, as occasionally happens in amputating a limb, the cyst of the abscess should be dis- sected out as far as possible, and the lodgment of matter prevented, by proper application of bandages and compresses. The retractor is now to be appHed, and the soft parts withdrawn. The bone being freed from any muscular fibres remaining attached to it (or tliese even detached to tiie extent of one or two inches), it is now to be sawn through, and the limb removed. During the sawing of the bone tlie assistant who supports llie limb is to be careful to hold it steadily,700 SURGERY. and in the proper position; if raised too much, the saw will become locked, and if, on the contrary, depressed, the bone may become frac- tured before completely sawn through. The arteries are now to be secured; and first the femoral: it is found on the inner side of and close to the bone, and may be discovered, but with some difficulty, from its retracting into the tendinous canal, commonly called Hunter's canal; if so, the canal should be slit open, and the artery withdrawn and secured with the ligature; this being applied a sliort distance ai)ove its cut extremity. In applying the ligature, care should be taken that no branch is given off, a short distance above the point at which the vessel is tied, as otherwise, haemorrhage may proceed from the branch. This, if it exist, should be at once secured, or the fe- moral artery tied above its point of origin. The tourniquet may now be loosened, and all the bleeding arteries secured, a warm sponge being applied to the wound, and some moderate stimulants given to the patient to encourage the bleeding, and prevent the necessity of open- ing the wound after the stump has been dressed and the patient put to bed. One end of each ligature is to be cut short and the other brought out at the most depending part of the wound. The practice of cutting the ligatures short and healing the stump over them is now abandoned, as such proceeding is found to be followed by greater irritation, and exposes the patient to the opening of the wound at a future period. When the patient is faint, and the arteries cannot be discovered, it is better not to close the wound for some hours after the operation. Should the femoral vein bleed, a compress of lint should be applied to its extremity, and retained there for a short time, when the bleeding will cease. The same practice is to be adopted in cases of bleeding from the wound itself. Any nerves or tendons that project should be cut short; the edges of the wound are now to be brought together, and retained in apposition, by means of strips of adhesive plaster or one or two points of suture. The sutures are objectionable from the greater irritation they produce, and should not therefore be used, if adhesive strips can be appUed so as to ansvyer the purpose. The stump is now to be covered with a fold of lint wet with cold water, and supported by means of a roller applied from above downwards, so as to support the soft parts, and favour the covering of the end of the bone. Much difference of opinion exists, as to the direc- tion in which the edges of the wound after amputation should be brought together. Some prefer that from before backwards, as this affords a free exit to the discharge from the stump. Others object to this, as the posterior part of the wound is made to gape by the pressure of the stump on the pillow, and as the cicatrix is ever afterwards exposed to pressure from the end of the bone; these, therefore, prefer uniting the wound in the transverse direction in which the cicatrix is soon drawn l)y the action of the flexor muscles behind the extremity of the bone, and thus preserved from injury. The wound having been dressed, the patient is to be placed in bed, with the stump supported on a pillow of moderate height, and the tourniquet apphcd loosely round the limb, as a precautionary measure, to be tightened in case of necessity.AMPUTATION. 701 In a favorable case of amputation of the thigh, some local inflammation and constitutional disturbance take place on the second or third day, which is soon followed by an adhesion of the edges of the wound by the first intention, except where the ligatures hang out, for some suppuration generally takes place at this point. The ligatures separate between the tenth and twenty-first days, varying according to the size of the artery tied, that on the largest artery being the longest in coming away, and vice versei. At the end of the third or fourth week, the patient is sometimes enabled to leave his bed. In such favorable cases the wound may be dressed, for the first time, on the third or fourth day after the operation, and after this every second day until healed. It rarely happens that amputation of the thigh proceeds so satisfactorily to its final termination. Many unfavorable symptoms generally arise in the course of its treatment. They may be enumerated as follows : 1st. Starting of the stump.—This is caused by the spasmodic twitchings of the divided muscles. It is treated by the administration of an opiate, and the ap- plication of pressure on the stump, by means of the bandage or the hands of an assistant. 2d. Secondary hcemorrhage may appear in a few hours after the operation, as soon as the patient shall have recovered the immediate shock of its performance, and the circulation becomes restored. The bleeding generally proceeds from some of the smaller arteries having been left untied, or may come from the femoral itself, when the ligature has not been properly applied. If profuse, the wound should be opened again, the coagula removed, and the bleeding vessels properly secured. The stump may be again dressed as before. Secondary hsemorrhage may occur on the fifth or sixth day from sloughing of the wound or the artery tied. If the bleeding cannot be restramed by pressure and styptic applications, the femoral artery should be tied in Scarpa's triangle It may also occur about the period of the separation of the hgature, from the want of uniofl in the artery. The same practice is to be adopted in this case. 3d. Violent inflammation sometimes attacks the stump commencing withm twenty-four hours after the operation,StFRGEKY. and reaching its height often so early as the third or fourth day. The stump becomes swollen, red, and painful, and is increased in temperature, and general fever sets in. The bandages and dressings should be removed, the lips of the wound, which are merely agglutinated together, opened, and the cavity of the stump cleansed of the coagula and unhealthy discharge which it contains. A number of leeches should now be applied, the stump be fomented, and then enveloped in a cataplasm or water dressing, the lips of the wound being supported by one or two strips of adhesive plaster, aided by bandages loosely applied. The antiphlogistic regimen is to be strictly adhered to, if not contra-indicated by the weak state of the patient. 4th. Erysipelas may also attack the stump. 5th, Sloughing, or hospital gangrene. . 6th. Protrusion of bone, forming a conical stump, and terminating in exfoliation. This is an exceedingly trouble- some, if not dangerous symptom. It is generally caused by sufficient soft parts not having been left in the operation to cover the end of the bone, by starting of the stump, or by sloughing, or profuse suppuration from it. When the bone projects much, the protruding portion should be removed with the saw. When the projection is moderate, it may be left to nature, which accomplishes the cure by the exfoliation of the Ijone, a complete ring of which comes away. 7th. Painful affections of the nerves, from their ex- tremities being included in the cicatrix, or exposed to pressure from the end of the bone; when anodyne ap- plications fail to give relief, the nerves should be re- moved. Amputation may prove fatal from the shock of the operation, secondary hsemorrhage, violent inflauiniation, and erysipelas of the stump, sloughing, or hospital gan- grene, mortification, or from some of the internal organs, particularly those of the thorax or abdomen, being dis- eased. If the stump be examined some months after the operation, a cicatrix, corresponding to the wound, will be found in the integuments; this is small, and approaches 10 a circular shape; the surrounding skin is puckered orAMPUTATION. 703 drawn into folds. Between the skin and end of the bone a bursa exists. The muscles are retracted and wasted near the extremity of the stump. The vessels are obli- terated as high up as the nearest anastomosing branch of consequence. The nerves are expanded at their extremities, and present a gangliform appearance. The end of the bone is expanded, its edges rounded off, and its medullary canal closed. Double-flap amputaiixtn of the thigh.—The patient being placed in the proper position, and the circulation commanded, the surgeon grasps the soft parts on the anterior of the thigh, and draws them forwards, passes the catlin from within parts, through the thigh to the outer side of the femur, and then cutting downwards makes the posterior flap. By a similar method observed on the posterior of the bone, the pos- terior flap is formed. The flaps being now held back, and the retrac- tor applied, the bone is to be sawn through and the operation com- pleted, as in the circular amputation. Some surgeons in this operation make the flaps laterally, viz. on the outer, the other on the inner side of the femur. In the single-flap amputation, the flap is made in a similar manner to the preceding, excepting that we are obliged to form it from that portion of the limb which has escaped injury. Amputation of the leg.—The leg may be removed in its upper, middle, or lower third. Amputation in the upper third is in general to be preferi'ed, as the stump formed by it is found to be most useful, the portion of the limb left in the other amputations projecting much posteriorly, to the great annoyance and inconvenience of the patient. When, however, the patient requires his leg for ornament as well as for use, either of the other situations may be selected. Amputation in the upper third of the leg or below the knee: Apply the tourniquet on the inner side of the thigh, at the junction of its middle and inferior third, so as to compress the femoral artery before it perforates the tendon of the triceps. Make a circular incision through the integuments about six inches below the patella, reflex back the skin, cut through the muscles by a second circular incision, pass the catlin between the bones, so as to divide the soft parts in the interosseous space, and saw through the bones, taking care that the fibula is the first divided. Dress the stump as in the circular amputation of the thigh, the line of incision corresponding to the long axis of the limb. The removal of a portion of the anterior edge or spine of the tibia will be found useful by preventing the irritation of the skin, so likely to be induced by the projecting edge704 SURGERY. of the bone. Some have recommended also the removal of the bead of the fibula; this is highly objectionable, for in doing so, the knee- joint will most probably be opened into, and the insertions of the biceps and the external lateral ligament are destroyed. Some difficulty is occasionally experienced in tying the anterior tibial artery, from its divided extremity retracting through the interosseous space. The artery may be easily exposed by dividing the interosseous membrane. The leg may be amputated through the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia; sufficient attachment will be left to the ligamentum patellae to preserve the action of the extensor muscles. Amputation in the middle third of the leg may be per- formed by the circular amputation, or by making a flap from the posterior part of the limb. Amputation in the lower third is in general performed in the latter way. The flap operation is performed as follows: The limb being placed nearly in the horizontal position, with the fibula upwards, the catlin is pushed through the leg, from the outer to the inner side, close to and behind the bones, and then carried downwards and outwards, so as to form the flap posteriorly of suf- ficient length; a semicircular incision is now made across the front of the limb, meeting at each extremity the commencement of the first wound. The integuments being dissected back, the limb is to be removed, as in the circular operation. If any tendons or nerves pro- ject, they should be at once cut short. Partial amputation of the foot.—Mr. Hey has recom- mended a portion of the foot to be removed, in cases of accident or disease, at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. To this we are guided by the projection of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. From this point forward, make an in- cision about an inch in length, then continue it forwards and inwards, across the dorsum of the foot, terminating it in front of the first tarso-metntarsal articulation, along the inner side of which a straight incision is made, correspond- ing to that on the outer side. Dissect back the integu- ments fronv the dorsum of the foot, and proceed to cut through the articulations; this is best done by commencing on the outer side and following the line of articulation. The joints liaving been opened into, the anterior part of the foot should be depressed, and a flap made from the sole, by carrying the knife forwards along the under sur- face of the foot. The anterior part of the foot having been705 AMPUTATION. removed, the arteries secured, and the tendons and nerves cut short, the flaps may be brought together and dressed. Chopart has suggested removing part of the foot at the articulation, between the os calcis and os astragalus behind, and the navicular and cuboid bones in front. The projection of the os naviculare on the inner side of the foot guides us to the articulation. Two flaps are made, one from the dorsum, the other from the sole of the foot, as in Hey's amputation. These partial amputations of the foot are objected to by many, from the violent inflammation that frequently results from exposing so extensive an articulating surface. In Chopart's ampu- tation there is much risk of opening into the ankle-joint. The stump, too, is not found so useful as might be imagined, as the gastrocnemii not being antagonised by other muscles, draw up the os calcis, and thus force the anterior part of the stump against the ground. Sir A. Cooper preferred sawing through the bones without regarding the line of articulation. Partial amputations of the foot may be practised from before backwards, so as to remove one or more of the metatarsal bones, and if necessary the adjoining tarsal bones. Two other amputations of the foot have been pi'oposed by Mr. Syme and Mr. T. Wakley. Mr. Syme's operation is resorted to when there is disease of the astragalus or calcis, or articulation of the ankle-joint, and consists of removing all the bones of the foot, and detaching, by the saw or bone-nippers, both mal- leoli, making a small flap in front, but a larger one from the skin of the heel, and keeping the parts together by means of sutures. Mr. Wakley's operation is intended to preserve as much of the foot as possible, with the hope that it may be more available than when all the bones are removed. It consists in removing the os calcis, astragalus and lower parts of the tibia and fibula, by lateral and transverse incisions, and subsequently keeping the parts in situ by interrupted sutures; a case thus treated by him at the Royal Free Hospital appears to have been eminently successful. Amputation of the «m.—The arm is amputated rather by the circular or flap operation. The steps of the opera- tion do not differ from those recommended for the removal 30 §706 SURGERY. of the tliigh. The circulation is commanded by placing the tourniquet round the upper part of the arm, or by an assistant compressing the artery here with his fingers. When the extremity is removed high up, the subclavian artery should be compressed above the clavicle. When the arm is to be removed near the shoulder-joint, Mr. Guthrie recommends the following plan : "Two incisions are to commence one or two fingers' breadth below the acromion, and the inner one is to be extended directly across the inner side of the limb, till it meets the lower point of the outer wound. Without detaching the skin from the muscles, these are cut through, the soft parts are held out of the way of the saw, the bone is sawn, the vessels secured, and the flaps brought together, so as to form a line from the acromion downwards." When amputation is performed high up, the bone is exceedingly apt to protrude from the spasmodic action of the pectoralis major muscle, so much so, that some prefer amputation of the shoulder-joint. Amputation of the forearm.—The forearm may be re- moved in its upper half by the circular incision, as described in amputating the leg, or by making a flap on the anterior and posterior part. It will be necessary to divide the fascia on each side of the limb, to prevent its constricting the stump. The sawing of the bones may be commenced at the same time, the forearm being pronated as much as possible, but that of the radius should be first corG^leted. The line of junction of the soft parts should correspond to the long axis of the limb. In amputation of the lower half of the forearm, the double-flap operation is preferred. The flaps are formed, one from the anterior, the other from the posterior surface of the hmb, bypassing the catlin through the soft parts, close to the boues, and then carrying it downwards and outwards to the necessary extent. The soft parts in the interosseous space being next divided, the bones are sawn through, and the ope- ration completed. Amputation of the hip-joint. —hairej's method. The femoral artery having been first cut down upon and tied close to Poupart's ligament, a straight knife is perpendicularly plunged between the tendons of the muscles attached to the trochanter minor and the base of the neck of the femur, so as to bring out its point at the back part of the limb, opposite to its first entrance; and then by directing the knife obliquely inwards and downwards, a flap, whichAMPUTATION. 707 is not to be too large, is made of the soft parts at the inner and upper part of the limb. This flap is next drawn towards the scrotum by an assistant, and the articulation brought into view. The thigh is now abducted, the inner part of the capsular ligament divided, and the joint opened. The ligamentum teres is then cut, and the bone dis- located. The knife is next brought to the outside of the great trochanter, and an external flap formed by the soft parts, calculated to meet that made at the inside of the limb. In proceeding through the operation, Larrey secured the several branches of arteries as soon as they were divided. The two flaps were brought together and kept in this position with straps of adhesive plaster and a woollen spica bandage. Sir A. Cooper commenced his operation by making an incision first below Poupart's ligament, a little on the outside of the femoral artery. The wound is then carried obliquely downwards and out- wards to the back of the thigh, about one third of the way down it. from which point the knife is carried in the opposite direction, obliquely upwards and inwards, to meet the first incision, so as to make an elliptical curve. The femoral artery being divided is immediately tied. The muscles are next cut through, the arteries secured, and the bone taken out of its socket. Many more modern surgeons prefer making an anterior and posterior flap, in the following manner. The femoral artery having been com- manded by an assistant, the knife is to be introduced about midway between the trochanter major and anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and thus passed under the muscles and nerves on the anterior and inner part of the thigh so as to make the flap in front. Then the capsular ligament is to be opened, the round ligament cut across, and the head of the bone to be disarticulated: then by passing the knife down behind the bone, the posterior flap may be formed ; the arteries are to be immediately secured, and the flap kept together by means of stitches. ^ Amputation of the hip-joint has been performed with great rapidity by Mr. Mayo by making a flap on the inside and then on the outside of the thigh, but the femoral artery had been previously tied. Amputation of the shoulder-joint.—The most approved mode of amputating at the shoulder-joint is that in which a flap is made of the deltoid muscle. This is accomplished either by making a semicircular incision through the skin and muscles, commencing in front, at a short distance external to the coracoid process, and terminating behind at the posterior edge of the acromion, the incision ex- tending on the arm as low down as a hand's breadth from the edge of the acromion; or, as recommended by Dupuytren, by raising the deltoid muscle with the left hand, while with the right the catlin is passed beneath the muscle near its origin, and the flap made by cuttingSURGERY. 708 downwards and outwards. The flap being raised from off the articulation, the knife is passed along the bicipital groove into the interior of the joint, and the attachments of the capsular muscles divided; the head of the bone is now forced outwards by pressing the elbow inwards, and the arm separated by cutting through the vessels, nerves, and soft parts on the inner side, or towards the axilla. Mr. Guthrie commences the first incision immediately below the acromion, and with a gentle curve extends it downwards and inwards through the integuments only, a little below the anterior fold of the armpit. The second incision outwards is made after the same manner, but is carried rather further down, so as to expose the long head of the triceps at the under edge of the deltoid. The third incision, commencing at the same spot as the first but following the margin of the retracted skin, divides the deltoid on that side down to the bone, and exposes the insertion of the pectoralis major, which must be cut through. This flap is now to be raised so as to expose the head of the bone. The fourth incision outwards divides the deltoid muscle down to the bone, when the posterior flap is to be well turned back, so as to bring into view the teres minor, and infra-spinatus passing from the scapula to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The outer and inner flaps being now raised, the head of the bone may be rolled a little outwards, the teres minor and infra-spinatus cut, and an opening made into the joint. The operation is completed as in the foregoing operation. During the amputation at the shoulder-joint the circulation may be commanded by compressing the subclavian artery above the clavicle, or by an assistant taking hold of the soft parts on the inner side of the arm previously to their division. Amputation of the wrist-joint.—The hand may be removed at the wrist-joint by making a semilunar flap of the integuments, first on the anterior, then on the posterior part of the M'rist; the flaps being dissected upwards, the articulation may be opened into on the side, and the disarticulation completed by cutting through the joint and dividing the flexor and extensor tendons. Sir A. Cooper prefers this operation to that of amputating the lower third of the forearm.AMPUTATION. 709 Amputation of the fingers and toes.—The first or second phalanges of the fingers may be removed at their articulation by making a circular incision round the finger in front of the joint, dissecting up the skin, and then cutting into the articulation: or by making a semilunar flap of the integuments on the dorsum of the finger, cutting into the articulation, and then forming the under flap by carrying the knife forwards to the necessary extent. The fingers may be removed at the metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation. The toes are almost always removed at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. This operation is performed by making a longitudinal incision on one side of the articulation through the soft parts as far as the joint; the knife is then carried through the joint, and an incision made on the opposite side corresponding to the first. The two flaps thus formed cover the end of the bone. In this operation the head of the metacarpal bone should be removed, as by so doing, the remaining fingers are brought together more perfectly, and the hand ren- dered more useful, and less deformed. This operation is in general to be preferred to that of amputating at the central joint of the finger, as in this last the first phalanx ■which is left, interferes much with the utility of the re- maining fingers, and is itself of no possible use. We see no objection to the cutting down at once on the neck of the metacarpal bone, and sawing this off" without opening into the articulation. The thumb is removed with its meta- carpal bone by cutting through the soft parts on the inner side down to the articulation; this is then opened into, and a flap formed on the outer side by carrying the knife close to the bone, as far forwards as will make it cor- respond to and cover the first incision. Any of the metacarpal or metatarsal boiies may be removed with the corresponding finger, or toe, in a somewhat similar manner. Modern surgeons recommend the removal of the heads of bones, when these are shattered, as in gun- shot wounds, or become diseased. The operation has met with much success, with the exception of those performed at the kqee-joint.710 SURGEEY. HAEMORRHAGE. Hjsmokrhage appears as an idiopathic disease, most frequently from mucous surfaces. The Schneiderian membrane of the nose is that which is most subject to it. It is here named epistaxis, and has been already considered under that head. The haemorrhage which interest surgeons most is that which proceeds from injured blood-vessels. Haemorrhage from arteries is much more difficult to control than that from veins, in consequence of their greater resistance and being more directly affected by the action of the heart. Arterial bleeding is characterised by the red colour of the blood, by this fluid being discharged per saltum, and being only restrained when the vessel is compressed on that side which is next to the heart. Haemorrhage from the smaller arteries seldom gives much trouble; the application of cold to the wound or styptic remedies, such as spirits of turpentine, solution of alum, matico, &c. or the closing of the edges of the wound will in general be found sufficient to restrain it. This is not, how- ever, the case with the larger arteries, as, for instance, those of the leg, thigh, forearm, arm, or trunk. The size of these vessels, the larger column of blood impelled into them so much more powerfully by the action of the left ventricle, and the absence of that degree of contractility possessed by the smaller arteries, call for more active remedies to arrest haemorrhage from them when wounded. It is unnecessary to allude to the older remedies for stopping haemorrhage, such as the actual cautery, &c.: these are now superseded, except in some very rare instances, by the ligature. Let us suppose that the femoral artery has been cut across, or otherwise wounded. The surgeon should imiiiediately compress the vessel leading to the wounded part, by the tourniquet or any other means within his reach. Having arrested the heemorrhage for the moment, he proceeds to tie the vessel. The wound, if sufficiently large, should be opened, and if not, must be dilated for the purpose, and the mouth of the bleeding vessel exposed. The artery is now transfixed with the tenaculum or taken hold of with the forceps, or if not completely cut across, the aneurism needle is passed beneath it, and the ligature applied so as to cut through the internal and middle coats and then tied711 h.^:mobrhage. firmly. Both extremities of the vessel should be secured, as otherwise the anastomosing branches will convey the blood into the lower end of the artery and the haemorrhage will return. (Vide Aneurism, for effects of the ligament on the artery and the subsequent process by which the haemorrhage is permanently restrained.) It frequently happens, even in wounds of very large arteries, that nature alone is sufficient to stop the haemor- rhage, and particularly when the wound has been of a lacerated character; thus, the arm has been torn from the trunk with but little bleeding. The means then that nature adopts to restrain haemorrhage are as follows: immediately on the artery being wounded, the blood escapes from the vessel, and becomes entangled in the surrounding cellular tissue, and thus forms an external coagulum variable as to size and shape; at the same time the artery, if cut across, contracts, and retracts within its cellular coat, which also becomes filled with blood. If the haemorrhage be profuse, the patient faints, by which the action of the heart and arteries becomes lessened, thus affording time for the more firm contraction of the vessel, and the greater consolidation of the external coagulum. A second coagulum soon forms in the interior of the artery, which is of a conical shape, the apex towards the heart and extends as far as the next anastomosing branch. After some time lymph is' poured out from the edges of the wound, the coagula are absorbed, and the artery contracting to the nearest anastomosing branch, becomes obliterated and degenerates into a ligamentous cord. Partial wounds of an artery are in general more dangerous than complete division, as the vessel is pre- vented from contracting and retracting. A puncture or longitudinal incision is less likely to be fatal than an obhque or transverse one. Haemorrhage from veins is easily restrained by making pressure on the vein bevond the wound. The ligature should never be resorted to in order to restrain venous haemorrhage, except when other means are found not to succeed, as these vessels are extremely prone to inflammation of their lining membrane a disease which is frequently fatal. mem Diane,SURGERY. 712 ON URINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. Urinary calculi are understood to be concretions formed and existing in the urinary passages; they have their origin in most cases in the kidneys, from which they pass down the ureters into the bladder, and remaining there acquire a very large size; some having attained a weight of from fourteen to sixteen ounces, and even more. Urinary calculi may remain in the kidneys, and are then properly named renal: they are accompanied in most cases with pain in the lumbar region, referred to the kidneys, some tenderness on pressure, increase of pain from violent exertion, a morbid state of the urine, which is ropy and turbid, and produces considerable deposit, according to the quality of the calculus; blood is often discharged, and there is considerable derangement of the general health. In some cases the symptoms are so obscure, that men of eminence and great practical know- ledge have overlooked them, and precribed medicines diametrically opposite to those they would have given, had they been aware of the existence of a calculus. When they are detected in the kidneys, surgical measures are not resorted to, but endeavours are made to reduce their size, or, at least, to prevent their enlargement by suitable medicines. Thus, if there be evidence that the calculus is of the uric-acid kind, liquor potassse, the car- bonate of potash, preparations of soda, and magnesia are employed; but a preference ought to be given to the salts of potash. If the concretion consists of the phosphates and carbonates of magnesia and lime, most benefit will accrue from the administration of acids, and most par- ticularly hydrochloric and nitric. The same remedies are indicated when deposits take place in the urine, inde- pendent of actual concretion. Not unfrequently renal calculi produce suppuration and ulceration, so as to open into the colon, through the integuments, or in the lumbar region. They may be, when large, cut down upon and removed. Renal calculi, escaping from the pelvis of the kidney and passing along the ureters, sometimes give rise to most distressing symptoms, such as acute lancinating pains in the course of the ureters, frequent desire to pass urine,TJKINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 713 which is scanty and often bloody, pain and retraction of the testicle, and pain on the inside of the thighs. There is vomiting, and if inflammation be caused by the stone, a very quick state of the circulation. A stone descending along the ureter into the bladder may be mistaken for peritonitis: it is distinguished by the generally undisturbed state of the circulation and the absence of tenderness on pressure. The remedies for this are bloodletting from the arm, the warm bath, oleaginous purgatives, large doses of opium, and opiate enemata. The calculus having passed into the bladder is then named a vesical calculus. These concretions, however, are formed in the bladder primarily in many instances, and owe their origin to several circumstances. If the urine be in a diseased state, and some of its proximate principles be rendered insoluble, they will be likely to remain im- bedded between the rugae of the bladder, and will serve as a nucleus for additional deposit. The nucleus some- times appears to be merely some thickened mucus, or a small clot of blood. Almost any foreign body is found to be soon incrusted with solid matter, which has been illustrated by pieces of metal, pipe, or bougies which have been allowed to escape into the bladder. The presence of such substances in itself produces a diseased condition of this cavity, as well as of the urine, and thus acts as a powerfully exciting cause of deposition. Urinary calculi present several varieties, of which, about six are the most common; some are exceedingly rare, and are scarcely noticed or admitted by many authors. The best known are the following: Calculi. 1. Urate of ammonia, (very rare) Occurs in children. External Character. Colour, clay-like. Surface, smooth,some- times tuberculated. Structure, concentric lamellfc. Fracture, earthy. Chemical Qualities. Before the blowpipe decrepitates strong- ly; treated with li- quor potassa; it e- volves ammouia; it is also soluble in solution of carbo- nate of potash or soda, but not so the uric acid calculus.SURGERY. 714 Calculi. 2. Uric acid, or lithic acid, (most common.) External Character. Chemical Qualities. Colour, brownish-red, fawn, or mahogany. Surface smooth, some- times tuberculated. Structure, in concen- tric lamellas ofacrys- talline texture; has sometimes an earthy appearance. Decomposedbeforethe blowpipe, giving out a strong odour, and leaving only a little grey ash. Soluble in liquor potassae, from which it may be precipitated by acetic acid, in the form of a white pow- der. Heated with nitric acid on a glass it is decomposed, and by evaporation leaves a substance of a beautiful pink colour. 3. Oxalate of lime. Mulberry calculus. Colour, dark brown. Surface, uneven, tu- berculated. Structure, imperfectly lamellated, hard, and compact. When re- moved not likely to reappear. Before the blowpipe is decomposed, the ox- alic acid passing off and the limeremain- ing. Soluble in hy- drocliloricacid,from which the lime may be subsequently pre- cipitated by ammo- nia. 4. Phosphate of lime. Colour, pale brown. Surface, smooth and polished. Structure, irregularly laminated; lamina; rarely separate. Before the blowpipe infusible; soluble in hydrochloric acid, from which it is thrown down by ammonia. 5. Ammonio-mag sian phosphate. I- Colour, nearly white. Surface, uneven, often covered with small crystals. Texture, not lamella- ted. Fracture, irregular, earthy appearance, rarely crystaUine. Shape, oval. Liable to reappear. Before the blowpipe gives off ammonia, and fuses with diffi- culty ; when potash is added to it am- monia is evolved. It is soluble in dilute acids.TJttlKARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 715 Calculi. 6. Amraonio-mag- nesian phosphate, with phosphate of lime. (Fusible calculus of Woollaston.) 7. Cystic oxide. External Character. Colour, white, resem- bling chalk. Surface uneven. Texture friable. Chemical Qualities. Before the blowpipe it fuses readily: is very soluble in di- lute hydrochloric acid. Colour, yellowish- white. Surface, smooth, but exhibits a crystalline appearance. Structure, crystalline, but not lamellated. Fracture, presents a glistening lustre. Before the blowpipe is decomposed, and gives out a strong peculiar odour; is soluble in acids and alkalies, forming crystals with both. It contains some sulphur. Many calculi, and indeed most, are not of one uniform composition, but consist of strata of two or three varieties, one forming a nucleus for other deposits; uric acid is more common as a nucleus than any other substance. Calculi thus constituted receive the name of alternating. The change may depend upon alteration in the diet, habit, and mode of living, on the morbid state set up in the bladder, and much upon the medicines which have been used for their removal. Urinary calculi are most frequent in children, less so in old persons, and least common in adult and middle age; more common in temperate than hot climates; in children they are most frequent amongst the poor and ill fed, but in old pei-sous more common in the rich, luxurious, and indolent. Females are less liable to cal- culus tban males, which may be partly explained by a small concretion more easily making its way through their short and dilatable meatus urinarius. Urinary calculus is more frequent in some districts than others; and locality likewise influences the species of the stone. Norwich is particularly remarkable for the number of stone cases, whereas there are other large towns where such have scarcely been heard of. Soldiers and sailors are com- paratively free from this disease, which fact is attributed to their active employment, regular diet, and free cuta-SURGERY. 716 neous exhalation. In some families, the formation of stone appears to be hereditary, and especially in those who are also subject to attacks of gout. A calculus in the bladder has then either descended into it from one of the kidneys, or has formed within it around some foreign body, that has served as a nucleus for the deposit of the calculous matter. A stone in the bladder is usually attended with the following symptoms: a fre- quent desire to pass water; acute pain in the glaus penis and course of the urethra; a sudden stoppage of the flow of urine from the falling of the stone against the neck of the bladder, if the patient be in the erect posture; and great suffering at the same time from the bladder con- tracting around the stone, producing what is called a fit of the stone; the urine is frequently mixed with clots of blood especially after exercise, and if the disease have been of long continuance, it will be of a whitish colour, and mixed with flakes of matter. There is some irritability of the rectum, and general constitutional disturbance. In children the prepuce becomes elongated from their con- stantly pulling at it, and not unfrequently a prolapsus ani exists. After some time patients learn to avoid making urine in the ei'ect posture, and adopt the horizontal, lying either on the back, or on one side. As most if not all these symptoms may be present without a stone being in the bladder, as, for example, in enlargement of the prostate gland, particularly of the middle lobe, fungous tumours of the bladder, or even an inflammation of its mucous membrane, no surgeon is confident of the presence of a calculus until he has, by sounding, ascertained its presence distinctly. This is efi'ected by passing the sound into the bladder and striking the stone. Should the calculus not be discovered at first, the instrument should be moved from side to side, and the position of the patient changed; thus, if he has been first sounded in the erect position without success, he should be placed in the recumbent, and vice vers^. As the stone sometimes lodges in the "bas fond" of the bladder, and thus may be passed over by the in- strument, the finger should be introduced into the rectum, and the calculus, if present, pushed upwards, so as to come in contact with the souud. A calculus has sometimes717 UEIXARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. been detected ■when the sound has failed, by passing a silver catheter into the bladder. The sudden escape of the urine along the catheter forces the stone against the extremity of the instrument, and thus the stone is discovered. The surgeon should always feel the stone distinctly before he pronounces on its being present, as the striking of the instrument against foreign bodies in the rectum, against the sacrum, an enlarged prostate gland, or a thickened fold of mucous membrane, is liable' to mislead him. When this stone is of small size, it may possibly be removed through the urethra, by dilating this canal, as recommended to be practised by Sir A. Cooper. It has been suggested that tlie injection of fluids into the bladder, -which are known to act as solvents of the stone, when removed from the viscus, should be practised; this plan, although frequently tried, has been found of no avail, as the solvents, if injected into the bladder of sufficient strength to have an effect on the stone, will act injuriously on the bladder. The only injec- tions of use are those of an anodyne quality, which lessen the irritability of the bladder, and thus relieve the patient. When the presence of a large stone has been determined on, it may be removed by the operation of lithotomy, provided there is not any local or constitutional disease to forbid its performance, and the stone is not encysted or adherent. The operation is performed as follows: The rectum having been emptied by an enema a few hours before the operation, and the patient having been desired to retain his urine for an hour or two previous to its performance, he is placed near the edge of a table of convenient height, having his hand and feet tied together, and a pillow placed beneath the but- tocks. First introduce the sound, and ascertain that the stone M still free in the bladder; pass in the grooved staff,* and confide it to the care of an assistant, who at the same time draws up the scrotum and penis, and makes the perineum tense. The knees of the patient being held steadily apart, make the first incision in perineo, commencing it immediately beliind the posterior cdae of t.hn sprntnm t„ ii,. i../-,. _^ posterior edge of the scrotum, and to the left of the .ai^uc, ou,.y,ng It downwards, backwards, and outwards until you termmate it midway between the anus and tuber ischii. This * fvWMnT^'r' ^^'n^J' ^"""'l^houW be introduced before tying up the patient. Others state that the staff will be sufKcient 10 ascertain the presence of the stone without the sound.SURGERY. 718 incision cuts through the integuments, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and most probably a few fibres of the sphincter ani. Com- mence the second incision close to where the first began, and carry it backwards in the same line, and to the same extent; in this the perineal fascia is divided, and the knife, passing into the triangular interval between the muscles of the perineum, divides the perineal vessels and nerves, and cuts across the transversus perinei muscle, vessels, and nerves, and behind these, the middle fibres of the levator ani. Now take the staff in the left hand, and, incUning its handle towards the right side of the patient, press it towards the wound in the perineum. Now feel for the groove with the nail of the index-finger of the left baud; and, having satisfied yourself of its situation, introduce the point of the knife or gorget,* into it, through the membranous portion of the urethra immediately behind the bulb; raise the staff, and with it the knife in the groove towards the arch of the pubis, so as to avoid the rectum as much as possible; move the point of the knife in the groove of the staff, that you may he assured of its not having slipped from it; depress the handle of the staff, still keeping it well raised, and at the same time push the knife upwards, and backwards, into the bladder, cutting through the mem- branous portion of the urethra, the anterior fibres of the leva- tor ani, or Wilson's muscles, the triangular ligament, and the left lobe of the prostate gland. The urine now escapes from the bladder: withdraw the knife, and, in doing so, dilate the external wound, if necessary. Pass the index-finger into the bladder, and feel for the stone, and remove it with the finger if possible. If this cannot be effected, withdraw the staff, and pass the lithotomy forceps into the bladder, seize the stone where narrowest, and remove it carefully through the widest part of the wound. Pass the finger again into the bladder, and ascertain if there should be another stone; if so, remove it, and so on until the bladder is com- pletely empty. When the stones are very numerous, they may be removed with the scoop; and, if broken down, tepid water should be injected, so as to remove every portion of the calculous matter, and prevent a nucleus remaining for the future formation of a stone. Sir A. Cooper prefers allowing of the calculous matter to escape in the after treatment of the case, to the injecting of water into the bladder. When a stone is too large to be extracted with the forceps, it is better to break it up than contuse the parts by a forcible removal of it. In the operation above described, when the membranous portion of the urethra has been opened by the point of the knife, instead of making the further incision into the bladder with the knife, some eminent s\irgeons, and especially those of long standing, make use of the gorget, which is fitted by its point into the groove of the staff, and guided by this, it is pushed forwards into the bladder. * Sir A. Cooper prefers the gorget in operating on adult and old persons, and particularly if the prostate gland be enlarged.URINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 719 The after treatment is extremely simple. The wound is left open, or only covered with some simple ointment, and in a dependent position, that the urine may flow freely through it; an anodyne is given immediately after the operation, diluent drinks administered, and any symptoms of inflammation combated by the antiphlogistic regimen. In the course of two or three days, the urine begins to flow by the urethra, and is soon altogether discharged by this canal; the external wound heals from the bottom by granulations. The following accidents may occur during the per- formance of the operation of lithotomy : ^'ound of the internal pudic artery. The vessel is in danger of being wounded, if the knife should be too much lateralised, or turned outwards in making the last incision. If wounded, the artery should be at once compressed against the inner surface of the tuber ischii with the fingers, and subsequently secured with a ligature. In some cases the dorsal artery of the penis arises as a distinct branch from the internal iliac artery, and runs along the lateral surface of the neck of the bladder to its destination. Under these circumtances, it is almost impossible to avoid it" in the last stage of the operation; and, as the source of the haemorrhage cannot be ascertained, it will prove fatal, if not restrained. The introduction into the wound of a piece of sponge, perforated by a female catheter, so as to admit of the escape of the urine, is the best means of arrest- ing the bleeding, as also any serious haemorrhage that may arise from other obscure sources. Wound of the rectum.—This intestine will be wounded, if the edge of the knife be directed too much inwards in making the incisions. Although an inconvenient, it is not a serious accident, as the wound may heal without any unpleasant consequences ; if not disposed to heal, the intestine may oe cut through, as in the operation for fistula in ano. Slipping of the knife or gorget from, the groove in the staff.—'Vim is one of the most serious accidents that can occur in the operation, as the instrument is thus pushed between the bladder and rectum; and the operator, ima- gining he has cut into the bladder, proceeds to extract the stone. Introducing the forceps for this purpose, he seizes the stone covered by the coats of the bladder, and in vaiuSURGERY. 720 endeavours to remove the calculus. The injury thus done is most frequently fatal. Wounds of the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, the vasa deferentia, vesiculee seminales, or ureter.—These accidents occur from prolonging the incision too far backwards. Wounds of the peritoneum is usually fatal, from inducing peritonitis. Division of the ureter is always fatal from the extravasation of the urine that takes place into the cellu- lar tissue of the pelvis. The operation of lithotomy proves/a^ctZ from— Peritonitis.—As this frequently succeeds the operation, it should be carefully watched ; and any symptoms, such as pain on pressure above the pubis, should at once be treated by the application of leeches, and, if necessary, by general bloodletting, and the use of calomel and opium. Inflammation of the wound, neck of the Madder, and bladder.—This occurs when much force or violence has been used in the removal of the stone. Disease of the bladder may supervene, even when the operation has been most skilfully performed, in cases where the viscus has been diseased before the operation. Extravasation of urine in the cellular tissue of the pelvis, causing extensive sloughing of this structure. This accident occurs, either from the wound in perineo not being sufficiently large ; from the urine not being allowed a free exit after the operation, in consequence of placing the patient in an improper position, or applying dressings unnecessarily to the wound, or from a wound of the ureter. Diffuse celhdar inflammation.—is an erysipela- tous inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, ter- minating in partial sloughing, and the formation of matter in the cells of the cellular tissue. It is attended with a low irritative fever; is exceedingly obscure in its symp- toms, and insidious in its progress. The high operation, or that above the pubes, and the recto-vesical operation of lithotomy are now, it may be said, wholly abandoned. They may be performed as directed for tapping the bladder above the pubes or through the rectum; and are still more exposed to the obiections already stated, as applicable to these operations. When calculi form in the female bladder, they may be ' removed by dilating the urethra, or dividing the canal to-UKINARY CALCULI AND LITHOTOMY. 721 wards its upper and outer part. The operation of litho- trity, however, bids fairly to supersede all other operations for stone in the female subject. Dupnytren's Bilateral operation of lithotomy.—The operator ren- ders the skin of the perineum a little tense, hy pressing it down with the fingers of his left hand placed at the anus, and then, with a scalpel, a curved incision is made through the integument, commencing at the right side, between the ischium and the anus, and terminating at the corresponding point at the opposite side. The concavity of the curve thus described looks downwards to the anus, and its convexity upwards to the bulb of the urethra; its centre being about five or six lines above the former point. A second incision is made in the same direction, and to the same extent, through the muscles and deep fascia. In the next place, the operator with the index-finger of the left hand, feels for the curve of the staff in the urethra at the top of the wound, and there he introduces the point of his scalpel. When secure of its posi- tion, he runs it in the groove from before backwards, for four or five lines, so as to divide the membranous portion of the urethra. This being effected, the point of the double lithotome is placed in the groove of the stafi', its concavity being turned up towards the pubic arch; then the operator, taking hold of the handle of the staff, draws it down towards him, and passes the lithotome back into the bladder. The staff is withdrawn, and the lithotome turned, so that its concavity shall look downwards. Its blades are sepa- rated to the required extent, and the instrument drawn steadily outwards, its handle being at the same time a little depressed, so that it is made to cut downwards and outwards. In this way the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder are divided at each side, and a lunated flap, composed of the lower segment of these struc- tures, is formed. This operation is named the bilateral, and is said to have the advantage of not exposing the rectum or pubic arteries to danger. The operation has not been so successful as to warrant its adoption by surgeons in this country. _ Operation oflithotrity.—This operation consists in pass- ing an instrument named the lithotrite, into the bladder by which the stone is broken up, so that the pieces may be afterwards expelled by the urethra. It is performed as follows: Inject a quantity of tepid water into the bladder by means of a ca- theter, so as to moderately distend this viscus; introduce the hthotnte, and grasping the stone within the blades of the instru- ment crush the calculus; repeat the process, until no portion of a la ge size remains This operation, although likely to be ex- ceedingly useful in the adult subject, is not fitted for the voung. In cases, too, where there is an inflamed state of the bladder or 31SUIIGEKY. 722 urethra, or a diseased condition of the prostate gland, the operation of lithotomy appears to be preferable. After the operation of lithotrity, all inflammatory symptoms should be carefully watched, and the necessary treatment adopted to arrest its progress. BURNS AND SCALDS, Scalds are produced by hot fluids, and seldom penetrate deeper than the cutis, causing a separation of the cuticle. Burns, on the contrary, may extend to the deepest-seated structures. Burns on the head or trunk are more dan- gerous than those on the extremities; a burn which affects a more extensive surface is to be dreaded more than that which penetrates deeper without affecting any great extent of surface. They are more fatal in the young and old subject than in the vigorous adult. Burns are divided into, 1st, those which affect the cutis to such an extent as to produce a vesication by the effusion of serum beneath the cuticle; 2d, those in which the cutis is more injured, and which generally terminate in suppuration ; 3d, those in which the cutis is destroyed, and ultimately sloughs; 4th, those which extend to the deeper- seated parts, producing mortification beneath the skin. Where vesications form on the surface from a bum, cold evaporating lotions should be appUed, such as the camphorated spirits of wine, the lotio acetatis plumbi, or cold water, in order to prevent the vesicles from bursting, and to lessen the inflammation. If the vesicles be opened at first much pain and constitutional disturbance will be the result from the exposure of the inflamed cutis to the atmospheric air. At a later period, when the inflammation of the cutis has been subdued, the vesicles may be opened, when the old cuticle peels off, and a new cuticle is formed. Some practice the puncturing of the vesicles with a fine needle, at the early stages. The operation frequently gives relief, if the access of air can be prevented. In the second form of burn, the cuticle is at once de- stroyed, and the inflamed cutis exposed; the consequence is that the cutis soon forms a suppurating surface, as after the application of a blister. The spirit of turpentine is the best application in the first instance to this form of burn, as the object is to excite a speedy reaction; linimentum723 BURNS AND SCALDS. calcis or a mixture of lime-water and milk, will also be found useful. Some recommend the wrapping of the parts in cotton; the advantages of this remedy are of a very negative description. When the cutis suppurates, the sore may be dressed, as after a common blister. This form of burn frequently proves fatal, if the surface injured be extensive, as when a person falls into boiling water or wort. The third and fourth forms of burn may be considered together. These accidents are more frequently caused by the clothes taking fire, the explosion of gunpowder, the boiling over of hot fluids or metals in laboratories, manu- factories, &c. When extensive, the patient, if seen im- mediately after the accident, is found suffering from collapse, caused by the shock of the accident; he is insensible, the skin is cold and pale, except where burned, here it presents an ash-coloured appearance, varying from a deep black to a yellowish tinge, according to the violence done to the part; the pulse is quick, weak, and scarcely to be felt; the patient suffers no pain. Brandy and am- monia should be freely administered, and the warm lini- mentum calcis or spirits of turpentine applied to the burnt parts. The collapse may last for some hours, or even prove fatal. If not fatal, it is succeeded by the stage of reaction. In this the pulse rises, the skin becomes warm, and the patient sensible, pain makes its appearance, and perhaps vomiting sets in. The same remedies may be appUed, but with more caution, until reaction has been established, when simulants should be laid aside, and the third stage, or that of inflammation, guarded against. The inflammatory stage is characterised by the usual local and constitutional symptoms attendant on inflammation. The antiphlogistic regimen may be observed in this stage, but with much caution, as the patient's strength requires to be husbanded to meet the future stages of sloughing and cicatrisation. Poultices may be applied to the deeply- burnt parts in order to expedite suppuration, and the separation of the sloughs, which constitute the fourth stage of burn. The process which takes place in this stage, IS that observed in the separation of sloughs from other causes. The same treatment is also applicable here. The patient's strength should be supported by a liberalSURGEEY. 724 use of nutritive food, wine, bark (if it should be found to agree with the patient), and opium. The latter remedy is of much service, as there is always a great tendency to relaxation of the bowels, which is best controlled by this medicine, or a combination of it with chalk mixture. When the sloughs have separated, and suppuration is established, the fifth stage, or that of cicatrisation, com- mences. The poultices may now be laid aside, and moderately-stimulating ointments, such as the ceratum calaminse, uuguentum zinci, unguentum nitratis hydrargyri dilutum, be applied. Lotions too will be found useful, particularly as they are more efficacious than ointments in lessening the discharge, which is usually profuse: of these the best are the lotio acetatis zinci, liquor plumbi, diacetatis dilutus, lotio sulphatis aluminis, lotio sul- phatis zinci, and lotio sulphatis cupri. The treatment of the suppurating surface is often troublesome, from the exuberance of spongy granulations, and frequent bleedings from the surface. The sulphas cupri, or nitras argenti, used in substance, or pressure, if it can be properly apphed, or the pulvis calaminse, will be found most efficacious under these circumstances. As the wound cicatrises there is a great tendency to contraction, so much so, that naturally distinct parts may be united together, the motions of the joints destroyed, or great deformity pro- duced. The occurrence of such accidents should be prevented by proper position, splints and bandages, which should be worn for some time after the cicatrisation has taken place. Burns may prove fatal in any one stage; thus iu the first stage, or that of collapse; from the shock of the accident causing a too great sinking of the powers of life. In the second, or that of reaction: from the reaction being too slight, and the patient again sinking into a state of collapse. In the tliird, or that of inflammation: from the violence of the inflammatory fever, or from inflammation attacking some of the internal organs, such as those of the head, thorax, or abdomen. In the fourth, or that of sloughing, and suppuration: from the constitutional irritation induced, from hectic fever, and the gradual sinking of the patient.TETANUS. 725 In the fifth, or that of cicatrisation: from debility, or effusion into one of the cavities, most frequently the head, or from organic disease of the thoracic or abdo- minal viscera. A patient, who has suffered from an extensive burn, especially if young or advanced in life, can seldom be pronounced out of danger until cicatrisation has been coDipleted. Tetanus sometimes appear during the treat- ment of a burn, and most frequently about the period of the separation of the sloughs. ON TETANUS. Tetanus is a spasmodic contraction of the muscles, principally of voluntary motion, attended with permanent tension, and rigidity of the parts affected, in which it differs from ordinary spasmodic affections. When the tetanic affection is confined to the muscles of the lower jaw, the disease is named trismus or locked jaw, but when more extensive is termed tetanus. When the body is bent forwards, it is called emprosthotonos, back- wards, opisthonos, and to one side, ^jZewrosMowos. Tetanus is divided into the acute and chronic. The first is the most dangerous form, and most frequently met with in this country; the last is not so fatal. Tetanus is also divided into the traumatic, or that arising from a wound, and idiopathic, or that induced without any obvious cause. Traumatic tetanus is that most usually met with in temperate climates. Any form of wound may produce it, but it more frequently follows lacerated wounds, and particularly those impUcating fasciae or tendinous structures, as in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot. The particular state of the wound seems to have no effect on the supervention of the disease, as it has appeared in all conditions, even when the wound has presented a most healthy appearance. Many conceive that laceration of some of the nerves of the part has an influence in producing tetanus, but the point is not decidedly esta- blished. The period too of the supervention of the disease after the receipt of the injury is exceedingly variable; in one case it made its appearance immediately,SURGEEY. 726 and proved fatal in fifteen minutes after, in many others it does not appear for weeks. The attack in general comes on gradually. The commencement is announced by a sensation of stiffness about the neck, root of the tongue, and muscles of the lower jaw, and some difficulty of deglutition. Soon after, the disease becomes fully marked, and spasms set in. The patient now lies in a supine pos- ture, with his limbs violently extended, the muscles of his face are contracted, his eyebrows corrugated, the upper eyelids drooping, the alse nasi extended, the angles of the mouth drawn backwards, and slightly downwards, and the teeth closed, or nearly so. The abdominal muscles are particularly rigid, and become as "hard as a deal board." The legs are stretched, the feet and toes ex- tended; there is an acute pain, which passes backwards, from the lower extremity of the sternum to the spine, apparently through the diaphragm. The spasms are particularly violent, and throw the body and head either forwards, backwards, or to one side, according to the form of the disease; they last but for a short time, seldom more than a few seconds, and return at intervals of variable duration. In severe cases the spasms appear as often as every minute, but in others there are but a few in the course of the twenty-four hours. The functions of circulation and respiration are but little affected; the patient breathes with tolerable freedom, except during the spasms; and the pulse is but little affected, except immediately after the attacks, or in the advanced stage of the disease, or shortly before death. There is a partial moisture on the skin, chiefly about the face, neck, and chest. The bowels are obstinately constipated, and the urine is scanty and high coloured. There is also a pecu- liar odour about the patient, which will alone serve to distinguish the disease. The sensorium is not affected. The acute form of tetanus generally proves fatal on the third or fourth day from the violence of the disease, and the consequent exhaustion of the patient. In some there is a remarkable relaxation of the spasms shortly before death, so as to give rise to the hope of a recovery, when a few spasms of extreme violence, and following each other with unusual rapidity, terminate the patient's sufferings. The chronic form of the disease is usually prolonged for727 MALIGNANT DISEASES. some weeks, and is frequently followed by recovery, the disease gradually disappearing. When fatal, it js so in general from the supervention of some organic affection, especially of the lungs. The muscles of the upper extre- mity are- seldom affected, except in the chronic form. The remedies recommended for tetanus are numerous; they are bleeding, in its various modes, purgatives, chloroform, opiates, antispasmodics, the warm and cold bath, stimulants, mercury, amputation, division of the wounded nerves, tobacco in the form of fermentations, and enemata, &c. All these have been tried, and most frequently with- out effect. Tobacco seems to have a powerful influ- ence in allaying the severity of the spasms. In the chronic form most of these remedies will be found useful, if a judicious selection be made, and that remedy resorted to which is most applicable to the symptoms, the age, and constitution of the patient. The introduction of a piece of wood between the teeth is always judicious, as it prevents injury of the tongue, so likely to occur during the spasms. Trismus nascentium is a tetanic affection, which attacks children shortly after birth, chiefly in hot countries. The disease is ascribed by many to an irritable state of the divided umbilical chord. It is generally fatal. ON THE MALIGNANT DISEASES. The diseases which are known as malignant, are Carci- noma, Medullary sarcoma, Melanosis, and Gelatiniform Cancer. Carcinoma, or Cancer, is a disease of advanced life, although occasionally met with in young subjects. It is divided into scirrhus or occult cancer, and ulcerated or open cancer. These are but different stages of the same disease. •Cancer usually attacks three structures in the human body, namely, secreting glands, skin, and mucous membrane. It is not confined to these, but may commence in almost any other structure, or extend to it by absorption or by gradual increase. Of the secreting glands, those most usually affected are the mamma in the female and the testis in the male. The lymphatic or absorbent glands are never afi'ected primarily with cancer. A case of728 SURGERY. scirrhus mammae may be selected to point out the course ot this formidable disease. Cancer usually makes its appearance in the female breast from the age of forty to fifty, when the catamenia are about to cease, and more frequently in single than in married women. Some ascribe its origin to a blow on the part, or the pressure of some portion of the dress, as the upper part of the stays ; whilst others can assign no cause for its commence- ment. It first appears as a small, hard, indolent, and moveable tumour in some part of the breast, knotty and irregular to the touch. From this it gradually increases in size, and becomes painful, sharp lancinating pains darting through it in diff"erent directions. As the diseased mass enlarges, it contracts adhesion to the surrounding parts, to the muscles behind, the skin in front, and thus becomes partially fixed. There is now an increase in the pain, together with a remarkable retraction of the nipple, and the veins on the surface become much enlarged and varicose. Soon after the gland becomes adherent to the skin; this inflames, gradually thins, and at last gives way, when the scirrhus becomes an open cancer, presenting an irregularly ulcerated surface, which rapidly increases, until it occupies a large portion of the tumour. The cancerous ulcer thus formed is circular in shape, its surface is irregular, and covered with hard fungous gra- nulations, giving it a cauliflower appearance; these granulations bleed on the slightest injury. The centre of the ulcer is depressed, or hollowed out into a cavity, which is partially filled with a fetid ichorous matter, while the edges are everted. The discharge is profuse, and consists of two kinds, a thin and extremely fetid, ichorous matter, which flows freely, and a more tenacious lymph-hke fluid, which adheres to the surface. The lancinating pains are now extremely severe, but are occasionally relieved by a discharge of blood from the surface. There is also a burning heat complained of over the ulcerated surface. On examination, tlie neighbouring lymphatic glands in the neck, axilla, &c. will be found much enlarged, and frequently painful, the pain being either that of common inflammation, or the lancinating pain of scirrhus. The constitution too sympathises much, however free it may have been (as sometimes is the case) before the ulcerMALIGNANT DISEASES. 729 was formed. As there is a species of irregular hectic fever setting in -with a peculiar leaden hue of the integu- ments, the disease progresses, the ulceration extends, until at length the patient sinks beneath her sufferings, and the repeated discharges of blood, or dies from the disease having extended itself to the thoracic viscera. There is but one plan of treatment for cancer that holds out any prospect of success, which is extirpation; and this per- formed, too, at an early period of the disease, before the contitution becomes infected, or any of the important structures in the neighbourhood of the disease are impli- cated. Various remedies have been resorted to from time to time to alleviate the patient's sufferings, or correct the discharge; of these opiates will be found the most useful. The carrot, charcoal, or hemlock poultice applied to the ulcer will be found often beneficial. In some cases cancer increases slowly, so that if the patient be already advanced in hfe, she may live for many years without much suffering, and ultimately die of some other affection. In such, an operation may be dispensed with. When a cancer returns after the operation has been performed, it usually appears in the site of the wound formed by the operation, or in the surrounding lymphatic glands. Cancer commences on a mucous membrane, as, for example, on the free border of the lip in the male subject in the form of a tumour, a crack, fissure, or an ulcerated surface. Sometimes a horny excrescence ushers in the disease. The pyloric extremity of the stomach and lowej' part of the rectum are peculiarly liable to cancer. The existence of numerous glands in those situations no doubt predisposes to the disease. Cancer may appear in the skin, as in mucous membrane; in general it attacks one of those warty excrescences, so often met with in the integuments, and especially in those of the face. Medullary sarcoma is known by numerous appellations, such as, soft Cancer, Fiaujoid disease, Fungus hcematodes, Cephaloma, and Cerehriform sarcoma, &c. This disease usually appears at the earUer periods of hfe, but there is no age nor structure wholly exempt from its attacks. It has been met with in the eye, the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the testes, extremities, indeed in almost every part of the body. In the extremities the disease begins with a small 31 §730 SURGEEY. colourless tumour, -which is soft and elastic, if there be no dense covering over it, such as a fascia ; but if so covered, it presents a tense swelling. At first it is free from uneasi- ness, but by degrees a severe acute pain shoots occa- sionally through it, then more and more frequently, and at length becomes incessant, for a considerable time the tumour is smooth and even, but afterwards it projects irre- gularly at one or more points, and the skin at those places becomes of a livid red colour, and feels thinner. In this situation it easily yields to pressure, but instantly bounds up again. Small openings, now form in these projections, through which is discharged a thin bloody matter. Almost immediately after these tumours burst, a small fungus protrudes like a papilla, and this rapidly increases both in breadth and height, and has much the appearance of carcinomatous fungus, the granulations being however softer and more exuberant, and frequently bleed pro- fusely. The matter is thin, and exceedingly fetid, and the pain becomes of the smarting kind. The integuments for a little way around these ulcers are red and tender. After ulceration takes place, the neighbourmg glands swell, and assume exactly the spongy quahties of the primary tumour. If the patient still survive the disease in its present advanced progress, similar tumours form in other parts of the body, and the patient dies hectic. Fungus hEematodes appears sometimes to be caused by external violence, but often arises idiopathically. llie only treatment for the disease is its mechanical removal. It is a more constitutional disease than cancer, and but few cases occur in which the disease does not reappear after an operation. . A carcinomatous tumour, when cut into, presents a striated appearance, having a central hard mass, from which bands pass off in every direction, as radii from a centre. Between this fibrous structure, are numerous cancer cells. Tlie fungoid tumour is composed of an irregular mass of brain-like matter mixed with clots of blood, intersected bv a few fibrous bands, sometimes containing cysts witli fluid, and wlien small may be surrounded by a distinct coat. When soft cancer attacks the eye, the first signs are observable in the posterior chamber; an appearance like that of polished metal presenting itself at the bottom otMALIGNANT DISEASES. 731 the eye. The pupil becomes dilated, and immoveable, and instead of having its natural deep black colour, it is ot a dark amber, sometimes of a greenish hue. The change ot colour becomes gradually more and more remarkable, and at length is discovered to be occasioned by a solid substance, which proceeds from the bottom of the eye towards the cornea The surface of this substance is generally rugged and unequal, and ramifications of the central artery of the retina may sometimes be seen running across it. Ihe anterior surface of the new mass at length advances as tar forwards as the iris, and the amber or brown appearance ot the pupil has in this stage been known to mislead surgeons into the supposition of there being a cataract, and induce them to attempt couching. The disease continuing to increase, the eyeball loses its natural figure, and assumes an irregular knobby appearance. The sclerotic also loses its white colour, and becomes of a dark blue or livid hue. The cornea soon sloughs, and the diseased fungus pro- trudes. According to Mr. Travers, the lens and cornea are the only textures of the eye in which fungoid disease may not originate. An eye thus affected should be re- moved as soon as possible, in order to prevent the optic nerve and brain taking on the same diseased action. Melanosis may also be called a malignant affection, and consists of a deposit of a black carbonaceous substance in the tissue of organs. It usually attacks internal organs, seldom appearing externally. It is wholly beyond the control of art. It sometimes appears as a subcutaneous affection in the form of small encysted tumours, containing a dark reddish fluid. It sometimes attacks the eye of young persons, in winch case, extirpation should be early performed; for this is perhaps the only part of the body where an operation can be resorted to with a hope of success. Gelatiniform or Colloid cancer, so named from the gelatinous or glue like fluid found in the cells of the parts affected, has only been recognised as a distinct variety of malignant disease during the last few years. It appears seldom separate, being found associated with carcinoma, or with the soft cancer. It is found attacking the 'stomach, liver, omentum, and occasionally other parts.732 SURGERY. Spina bifida. This is a malformation or arrest of deve- lopment in tlie posterior part of the spinal column, in which, from the process of ossification not being completed, the spinous processes are wanting and thus the spinal canal is not closed, A tumour soon forms and protrudes through the aperture. This tumour is formed by the membranes of the spinal marrow which are forced outwards, by a collection of serum in the interior of the theca. Treatment.—The tumour should be punctured with a fine needle, and the serum given exit to; pressure should now be applied over the part so as to prevent if possible the reappearance of the tumour and allow of the completion of the spinal column: should the tumour return, it should be again punctured. This practice is to he repeated as often as may be necessary. The case seldom terminates favorably, when the large portion of the spinal canal is imperfect. This affection, although not confined to any particular part of the spinal columns, is most frequently met with in the lumbar region. A similar arrest of development is occasionally met with in the posterior part of the head, when the membranes and substance of the brain become protruded so as to form a tumour. Pressure alone, and that gently and moderately applied, can be resorted to in this case with safety. 'Paronychia or Wldtlow is an inflammation of one of the fingers or toes (very rarely the latter,) of a very painful nature, and much disposed to sujjpurate. Paronychia is divided into four kinds, according to the depth of the inflammation: 1st, the most superficial, which is situated immediately under the cuticle; 2d, when (heinflammation is situated beneath the cutis; 3d, when the inflammation is situated in the sheaths of the tendons; 4th, where the inflammation lies beneath the periosteum. The first and second forms of paronychia attacks the ungual phalanx. There is, in general, a good deal of pain in the part, and some redness and swelling, particularly about the root of the nail. The application of leeches and warm fomenta- tions to the part will in general give relief, and sometimes cause the resolution of the inflammation. In general, some matter forms, and most frequently near the root of733 MALIGNANT DISEASES. the nail, which requires to be discharged with the point of the lancet, when the disease usually subsides. When the matter forms beneath the nail, this may be cut through to allow of its escape. This is best accomplished by first paring the nail, as thin as possible, with a piece of glass, and then using the point of the lancet. In these cases the nail is generally thrown off. In the third form of the disease, when the inflammation is situated in the sheath of the tendons, the symptoms are much more urgent. The whole finger is then engaged, there is most excruciating pain of a throbbing character, much aggravated by placing the finger in the depending position, and extending upwards to the hand, wrist, elbow, and even shoulders. There is but little redness or swelHng. In most cases there is a considerable degree of fever, and the patient is deprived of rest. Leeches, warm fomen- tations, and poultices may be used in the early stages, but should the inflammation not abate by these means, an inci- sion should be made on the anterior surface of the fingers down to the inflamed parts. This gives immediate relief, a small quantity of pus is discharged, and the disease subsides in a few days by the use of warm fomentations and poultices. If the disease be not arrested, the inflammation will spread upwards into the palm of the hand, from thence, beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, into the forearm, in all of which places abscesses will form, frequently attended with sloughing of the fasciae and some of the tendons, parti- cularly that of the finger first affected. Under these circumstances, deep and free incision should be made into the inflamed parts, to give exit to the matter and sloughs, and poultices be afterwards applied. The use of the forearm and hand is often lost from the matting of the tendons and synovial sheaths caused by the inflammation; not unfre- quently amputation is required. Ganglion is an encysted, circumscribed, moveable sweUing, commonly free from pain, causing no alteration in the colour of the skin and formed upon tendons in different parts of the body, but most frequently on tlie dorsum of the hand or foot. When ganglions attain a large size, they mterfere with the action of the tendon734 SURGEEY. with which they are connected, and may destroy the motion of the finger or of the hand. They are very troublesome on the dorsum of the foot, from their becoming irritated by the pressure of the boot or shoe. Ganghons are sometimes dispersed by the use of pressure and stimulating liniments. In general, this plan is ineffectual. The best method then is to rupture them with a blow given by a book or mallet. The contents of the sac are absorbed, and the cyst becomes obliterated, by adhesive inflammation. When this plan is not likely to succeed, either from the size of the tumour, the thickness of the cyst, or from being situated amongst soft parts, as the bellies of the muscles, they should be carefully dissected out. Opening them is objectionable, as violent inflamma- tion often results; not unfrequently a fungus of a most troublesome, and according to some of a maUgnant charac- ter, makes its appearance from the interior of the cyst. The contents of a ganglion consist of a viscid transparent fluid, resembhng white of egg. In some cases these tumours contain a number of smaEwliite seed-like bodies. Artificial Anus is an artificial opening in some part of the abdominal parietes, by which the contents of the intes- tine escape externally. It is generally the result of stran- gulated hernia, but may be caused by wounds or other injuries of the abdomen. The disease is productive of much distress to the patient, as the intestinal contents are discharged involuntarily; the mucous membrane protrudes through the opening, and discharges a quantity of rnucu*, which excoriates the parts much, and the aperture becoming contracted, may prevent the passage of the contents of the intestine, and thus induce symptoms of strangulated hernia. We should treat this disease by endeavouring to cause the intestinal contents to pass along the natural canal; this is done by the administration of eneraata, and by making pressure on the opening, by means of a truss ; when the intestine, in which the artificial anus exists, may become suQiciently retracted to allow of the descent of its contents into the lower part of tlie canal. In some cases this cannot be accomplished from the acuteness of the angle formed by the fold of intestine injured; the upper and lowerERTSIPELAS. 735 portion of which may be adherent together for some distance. For these cases, Dupuytren has recommended a species of forceps; the blades of which, bemg closed at the projecting angle, cause it to slough, and thus remove the obstacle to the cure of the disease; this practice, in most cases, has been found to induce such violent symp- toms, as to deter surgeons from resorting to it. When the contents of the intestine cannot escape, and symptoms of strangulated hernia set in, the artificial opening may be dilated, or a gum-elastic tube passed into the intestine, and enemata administered, so as to remove the substance impacted in the aperture. In incurable cases, it will be necessary for the patient to wear a tin case or other recep- tacle for the contents of the intestine. Formation of an Artificial Anus.—Cases have occurred of imperforate anus, or where the rectum has been obstructed by disease, that, to prolong life, it has been decided to form an artificial anus. The spot selected for this purpose by Amussat, is the descending colon, in the space between the last ribs and crest of the ilium. An incision is made transversely midway between the above points, external to the lumbar muscles', the skin fasciae and abdominal muscles are to be cut through, and when the colon is reached, it is to be opened without wounding the peritoneum, the edges of the opened bowel are to be stitched to the lips of the wound that a permanent opening may remain, which may be covered, when necessary, by appropriate means. EEYSIPELAS. The term erysipelas is usually applied to a peculiar form of inflammation, distinguished by a strong tendency to diffuse itself widely. There are two principal varietes of it, named erythematous and phier/morions, and a third, less common, but quite as fatal, which may be called diffuse cellular inflammation. These diseases may be described as idiopathic and traumatic, as applicable to the first ; but the two latter seldom occur without mechanical injury, or the application of some poisonous matter to the body.736 SUKGERY. Erythematous erysipelas is seated in the skin only, not involving the cellular tissue beneath, and shows itself idiopathically and symptomatically. The most frequent state of it is the face and head, but it may manifest itself in any part of the body; it is sometimes preceded by un- easiness, sickness, and shivering, then a redness appears (when attacking the face), first on the bridge of the nose, and extends itself to the eyelids, face, and forehead, having a distinct line of demarcation; the colour is bright red in young persons, deep rose red in the adult, and in weak and old persons has somewhat of a yellow tinge. The part loses its colour temporarily by pressure, on the re- moval of which it rapidly returns, and there is no pit remaining after pressure. There is a smarting, burning sensation, and considerable oedema; high fever, often passing on to delirium, and unfortunately sometimes at- tended with or followed by meningitis. It may terminate i n resolution with some desquamation of cuticle, or in vesica- tions containing a straw-coloured fluid, which may burst and dry up, or may degenerate into ulcers; and thirdly it may lead to abscesses, which require to be opened. Persons seem most liable to erysipelas who have injured their con- stitutions by intemperate habits. Treatment.—This disease is treated very variously by medical men, some adopting an actively antiphlogistic plan, others resorting to tonics and stimulants from the commencement; both systems are good with due discrimi- nation ; for in large towns and hospitals, where the air is less pure and the constitution less vigorous, active deple- tion is, as a rule, very detrimental. In the young and robust, bloodletting from the arm may be practised, also local bleeding by leeches, or by numerous punctures made in the part by a lancet; then give a good dose of calomel and colocynth or jalap to clear out the alimentary canal, or an emetic may precede this with advantage ; then ad- minister repeatedly saline diaphoretics, until any symptoms of depression manifest themselves, in which case we must resort to decoction of cinchona with ammonia, beef tea, and other light nourishment, and if necessary pi-oceed to stimulants. As to topical applications employed by medical men, they are very numerous, viz., cold evaporating lotions, warm fomentations, flour sprinkled over the part, cottonERYSIPELAS. 737 wool, blue ointment, a solution of sesquicarbonate of am- monia, solution of sulphate of iron, and two others which I have recommended most, viz., decoction of quince seed, with a small quantity of extract of belladonna, to be painted cold over the part, and the other is the solution of nitrate of silver as recommended and successfully employed by Mr. Higginbottom; his solution is made with a scruple of nitrate of silver to a drachm of water, with two or three drops of dilute nitric acid,—this is to be applied with a brush over all the part affected, and a little beyond it; the painful smarting soon abates, and often in twenty-four hours there appears to be an arrest of the inflammation, and the constitutional symptoms abate likewise ; the chief objection to it is the temporary disfigurement, which will disappear, however, in the course of about a fortnight or three weeks. If abscesses form under the skin, they should be opened. Phlegmonous Erysipelas is a severe form of disease, attacking not only the skin, but the cellular tissue beneath, and sometimesextending to the fasciae, tendons, and muscles. It is almost always consequent upon mechanical injury, and is more frequent in hospitals than in private practice. There is much constitutional disturbance, as in the former variety ; the part affected becomes enormously swollen, red, tense, and shining, with a hard brawny feel; vesications may show themselves; then copious effusion of fluid of a sanious ichorous matter beneath the skin ensues, the red colour of the surface disappears, and is replaced by a pale mottled, hard appearance; the skin pits on pressure, and presents a doughy, boggy feel; the constitutional symptoms take on now a lower type, and irritative fever sets in, which, with the mischief going on under the skin, soon kills the patient. The treatment at first may be mildly antiphlo- gistic, but general bloodletting is hardly admissible; the parts may be fomented; free incision should be made in the early stage to empty the vessels and take off tension, and in more advanced stages to allow the escape of the sanious matter, pus and sloughs, and thus preventing an extension of the disease. The bowels should be well opened at the commencement, and then the patient's stren"-th must be supported by tonics and plenty of nourishment. The peculiarity of this iuflaramation is, that, the fluid effused does not contain healthy pus, nor is lymph thrown out toSDKGEEY. 738 agglutinate parts together, aud thus limit the disease, and consequently the morbid secretion is very prone to extend itself amongst the fasciae, tendons, and muscles. The third variety of erysipelas, named diffused cellular inflammation, is much less common than the two preceding ; it is a peculiar inflammation attacking the cellular tissue, and sometimes extending to the fasciae and muscles: there is usually great pain, much swelhng, pallor usually instead of redness of surface, fever of a lower type, sometimes delirium, and great prostration. A disease of this kind is found to follow the bites of serpents aud dissection wounds. The remedies are similar to those for the other species, only that bloodletting must be practised more cautiously, aud throughout the disease a supporting stimulant plan of treatment must be mainly resorted td. FINIS.INDEX. PAGE Abdomen . . • • .238 wounds of . . . • 512 Absorbents, structure . . . .428 Acetabulum . . . . . 46 Adhesion . . • • .449 Albugo . . . . • • 485 Albumen .... 409, 410 Amaurosis . . . . . 494 Amputations . . . .697 Aneurism ..... 659 by anastomosis . . . . 674 dissecting .... 674 treatment . . . . 666 Aneurismal varix .... 674 . Ankle-joint . . . . . 54 Ankyloblepharon .... 482 Anthrax . . . . . 463 Anus, artificial .... 734 Aorta, abdominal, branches . . . 258 relations of arch . . . . 237 Arachnoid membrane .... 143 Arch of aorta, relations . .. . . 236 Arteries. . . . . ' . 426 anastomica . . . . 355 anastomotica magna . . .388740 INDEX. PAGE Arteries, articular .... 396 axillary . . . . 342 basilar . . . . . 338 bronchial . . . . 237 buccal .... 316 " capsular .... 260 carotid, common . . . . 292 external . . .296 internal . . • 317 centralis retine . . • 320 cerebral, anterior . . . . 321 middle . . . 321 posterior . • .338 cerebellar . . . . 337 cervical, ascending . . . • 340 cervicalis profunda . . . • 341 ciliary . . . • • 320 circle of Willis . . . . 333 circumflex, axillai'y . . • 348 femoral . . - 387 circumflexa ilii . . . • 374 coats of . . . • '127 coeliac axis . 258 coronaria ventriculi . . • 258 coronary . . • .235 epigastric . . • .373 superficial . • • 386 ethmoidal . . • • 320 femoral . . . • 383 gastro-duodenal . . .259 gastro-epiploic . . • • 259 glandulares . . • • 347 gluteal . . . .370 liepatic . . - • 259 iliac, common . . . • 366 external . . • • 373 internal . . . • 367INDEX. 741 PAGE Arteries, ilio-lumbar . . • . 368 infraorbital . . . .316 intercostal, superior . . . 341 intercostal . . . • 237 inter-osseous .... 360 ischiatic . • . . . 370 labial or facial.... 301 lingual . . . . . 304 lumbar . . . . . 261 malleolar. . . . . 402 mammary, iutemal . . . 339 masseteric . . . . 316 maxiUaris inferior . . .315 maxillary, superior . . . . 316 maxiUaris iuterna . . . 313 meningea media . . . 314 parva . . . . 315 mesenteric, superior . . . 259 inferior . . . 260 metatarsal . . . . 402 obturator . . . . 369 occipitalis .... 306 oesophageal .... 237 ophthalmic . . . . 319 palmaris profunda . . . . 358 superficialis . . . 361 palatine, descending . . . 317 penis . . . .372 perineal . . . . . 371 peroneal . . . . _ 404 perforantes . . . . 387 pharyngea ascendens . . . 307 phrenic . . . .258 plantar . . . ,404 popliteal . . . . 395 posterior auris . . _ 305 profunda, fcmoris . . _ 38g742 INDEX. Arteries, profunda, superior . pterygoidese pudic superficial pyloric . inferior radial recurrent ramus tympanicus . renal sacra media sacri media scapular, posterior superior . spermatic spheno-platine spinal splenic . sub-scapularis subclavian sterno-mastoid superficialis volse supra-scapular. surales . tarsal temporal deep thoracica suprema thoracica longa thyroid axis inferior superior tibial, anterior. posterior transverse facial ulnar recurrent743 PAGE Arteries, uterina . 369 vertebra] . 337 vidian . 317 Ai'tery, brachial . 350 Articulations of lower extremity . . 45 Articulation, ankle-joint. . 54 elbow . 79 maxillary . 97 peroneo-tibial 53, 54 Articulations 5 ampbiarttrosis . 7 arthrosis 6 classification of 6 enarthrosis 6 foot . 56 ginglymus . 6 gomphosis 7 hand . . 84 harmonia . 7 metatarsus . . 57 occipital bone with atlas . 12 planiform 6 radio-ulnar . 80 radio-carpal . 81 schindylesis 7 sterno-clavicular . 74 sutura 7 symphysis . . / synchondi'osis . 7 tarsus . 56 thoracic . 21 upper extremity. . 74 Arytenoid cartilages . 221 Axillary region . 342 Azotised substances . 409 Base of cranium, fracture . 477 Bile . . . ' . . 416744 INDEX. PAGE Bile, secretion of . Dile-iat . 414 Bladder, urinary O/iO . zbz jjiooa. AT A. A'iti ^1^, -too von 1 QTir\vi f\t UirUUialiUU Ui 4^fi ■Rml J3011 Bone 418 424 analysis of liyoid * . . 106 Bones, astragalus . 4.0 carpal clavicle uo coccyx 94. cuboides 4.1 cuneiform . 49 6Q diseases oi . . . . U«u ethmoid yo lace femur nbula 38 flat 1 toot 39 forearm 65 frontal S6 . . ou growth of . 2 head 86 innominata 24 irregular 1 leg . • • . 35 long lower extremity . 32 lunare 69 magnum . 71 malar . 95 metacarpal . 71 metatarsal . 43 maxillary, lower . , . . 96Bones, maxillary, superior nasal naviculare • number of occipital of hand OS calcis palate parietal patella pelvis . phalanges, foot . pisiform reunion of ribs sacrum scaphoides sphenoid spongy sternum tarsus temporal thorax tibia . trapezium trapezoides . unciform upper extremities vomer . Brachial region Brain, arteries of base of composition compression of . concussion of description . inflammation of . INDEX. 745 PAGE . 94 . 93 . 41 2 . 88 . 69 . 40 ; . 95 . . 87 . . 35 . 23 . 44 • . . . 70 4 . 17 . 23 . 69 . 91 . 96 . 19 . 39 . 89 . 16 . 36 . 70 • . 70 . 71 . 58 . 96 . 349 . 162 • . 155 . 419 . 472 . 474 . 138 . 466 32746 INDEX. Brain, injuries of . substances Bronchi Bronchocele Burns and scalds Butter Csecum, caput coli Canal of Petit Canals, semicircular Cancrum oris . Capillaries Capsules, supra-renal Caput Gallinaginis. Carbuncle Carbuncular lip Carotid sheath Cartilage Cartilages costal ulceration of Caruncula lacrymalis Caseine Castration Cataract Catarrhus vesicae . Cava, inferior Cells . Centrum ovale Cerebellum Cerebrum Cervical fascia Chalk-stones . Chambers of eye . Chancre sloughing . Cholcic acid . Cholesterine PAGE . 472 . 146 . 225 . 290 . 722 . 414 . 246 . 202 . 207 . 462 . 428 . 256 . 263 . 463 . 464 . 291 . 423 . 419 . 20 . 636 . 198 409, 410 . 588 . 492 . 574 . 261 . 419 . 147 . 154 . 146 . 285 . 418 . 201 . 576 . 577 . 413 . 414Chondrine Chordee. Choroid membrane plexus . . Chyle . course of Chylification . Ciliai-y ligament strise Circle of WiUia Cii'culation of blood Clavicle, muscles attached Coagulable lymph . Coccyx, muscles attached Cochlea . Colon Commissures of brain Conjunctiva . Conjunctivitis Converging fibres of brain Cornea . pustules on Corpora cavernosa Corpus callosimi . olivaria pyramidalia quadrigemiua . striatum Co-wpefs glands . Cranial aponeurosis Cranium, injuries of bones of Cremaster muscle Cricoid cartilage . Crura ccrebelli cerebri Cystic duct . Dartos .748 INDEX. Deglutition Diaphragm Digastric region Digestion Dislocations . ankle-joint . clavicle compound elbow . hip-joint lower jaw shouldei'-joint Ductus communis choledochus Duodenum Dura mater . Ear . Ectropium Elbow-joint region. Encanthis Enchondroma Entropium Epididymis Epiglottis Epistaxis EpitheUum ciliated columnar scaly spheroidal Erysipelas Eustachian tubes Exomphalos Exostosis Extravasation of urme Extremities, upper lower ./4y INDEX. PAGE Eye . . - 194 diseases of . . 482 Eyebrows . 196 Eyelids .... , 197 abscesses in . 481 diseases of . 479 tumours of. . 481 Fallopian tubes . 275 Eascia semilunar . . 352 transversalis . 267 Fats . 413 Female srenital orsrans . 273 Femoral region . 383 Femur, muscles attached . 34 Fibrine 409, 411 Fibro-cai'tilage . 424 Fibula, muscles attached . 39 Fistula in ano . 597 lacrymalis . . 496 Foetal circulation . . 437 Pontana, canal of . 201 Foot, divisions . 39 Foramen commune anterius . 153 posterius . ib. Foramen of Winslow . 242 Fore-arm, bones of . 65 region of . 356 Fornix .... . 151 Fractures, compound cranial . 470 depressed . 471 frontal sinus . 471 Fractures . 601 compound . 620 non-union . 623 treatment of . . 604 union of . . 607 Fragilitas ossium . 633750 INDEX. Fungous tumour of brain PAGE . 478 Furuncle . 463 Gall-bladder . 253 Ganglion . 733 Gangrene . 458 hospital . . 462 senile . 460 sphacelus . . . 458 Gastric iuice, composition . 418 secretion . 439 Gelatine . 412 Glands, Ijmpbatic . 428 salivary . 217 Glaucoma . 495 Glossitis . 501 Glottis .... . 331 Gluteal region . 391 Glycerine . 413 Gonorrboeal opbtbalmia . . 488 Gyrus fornicatus . . 147 Gonorrhoea . 563 Hard palate . 328 Haematocele . . 589 Hsematosine or hsematine . 411 Hcemorrbage . 710 Esemorrhoids . ' . . 595 Head, injuries of . . 464 Hearing . 443 Heart . . . • . 230 Hernia cerebri . 478 Hernia . . . • . 513 congenital . . 535 femoral . 539 humoralis . . 566 incarcerated . 558 infantile . 536 inguinal . 513INDEX. 751 Hernia inguinal, coverings of operation direct irreducible of bladder of cascum . reducible strangulated umbilical . ventral Hip, diseases of Hip-joint Hippocampus major Hordeolum Hospital gangrene Humerus muscles attached Humours of tbe eye Hunter's canal Hydrocele congenital of the cord Hydropthalmia lUum Incus Inflammation, signs of Inguinal canal Insalivation Intervertebral substance Intestines Iris Iritis Isthmus faucium . Jejunum Joints, diseases of . Kidneys Kiernan's views of liver752 INDEX. Knee-joint PAGE 48 diseases . 636 Labyrinth . 207 Lacrymal apparatus . 198 Ijagophthaimia . 482 T J. liaryngotomy . 504 Jjarynx . 220 Leg . . 397 Lens, crystalline CI Art Leucoma . 485 Ligament, odontoid . 12 sacciform . 80 Ligaments . 419 accessory . 47 alar . 51 ankle-ioint . 54 annular carpal 83 cotyloid 10 crucial 51 hip-joint 47 '1*1 1 luo-lumbar 28 knee-joint . A n .49 mucosum ol obturator 01 elbow /9 01 lower jaw . ya of pelvis 07 01 scapula . /o of shoulder-joint . 77 of wi-ist-joint 82 pubic 29 sacro-Uiac . 28 sciatic 28 vertebral . 28 semilunar . . 52 subflava . 14 teres 47INDEX. Ligaments, their character thorax Ligamentum denticulatum . Ligatui-e of carotids Limbus luteus Lipoma nasi . Lips Lithotomy Liver Lower jaw, articulation Lungs Lupus . Lymphatics, structure . Malacosteon Male genital organs Malignant diseases Malleus . Malpighian bodies Mamma, diseases of Margaric acid Mastication Meatus auditoiius intemus Mediastiua Medulla oblongata Medulla spinalis Meibomian glands Membraua pupillaris tympaui Meningitis Metacarpal bones, muscles attached Milk . secretion of . . Mons veneris MoUities ossium Morbus coxae . . Mortilication dry . 753 PAGE 5 . 21 , 144 . 294 . 200 . 498 . 327 . 712 . 250 . 97 . 227 . 457 . 428 . 633 . 266 . 727 . 206 . 255 . 506 . 413 . 430 . 207 . 226 . 158 . 161 . 197 . 201 . 204 . 466 . 72 . 416 . 439 . 273 . 633 . 638 452, 458 . 458INDEX. 754 PAGE Moi-tification, moist . . . .458 Mouth . . . . .215 cavity of . . . • • 327 Mucous membranes .... 429 Mucus . . • . • • Muscle .... 419, 425 Muscles attached to ribs . . . . 22 ensiform cartilage . . 23 sternum. . . . 23 abdomen .... 125 back . . . . . 117 classification . • ... 108 classified action . ■ • • 136 cranial region . . • • 108 external ear . • . " . 108 extremity, lower • •. • 129 extremity, upper • • • 120 face . . . • -108 foot thorax Nscvus matcrnus Nails, structure 133 130 114 132 110 hand, proper . • • • 123 hip . • • • larynx leg . lower jaw neck, deep anterior . • . . 115 neck, front, and side . • .111 of orbit . • • • 1,+ . • 135 orbit . • • palate, soft • ■ • . . ii6 ... 127 . 113 . ]12 permeum pharynx styloid . • • '129 thigh, lore part • • ■ ^'^^ back part . • . . 131 .116 . 674 . 214INDEX. Nares, posterior Nerves . abdueentes . accessory bracliial plexus . cai'diac plexus cerebral cervical plexus cranial, functions dorsal facial glosso-pharyngeal gustatory . inferior maxillary Ungual lumbar meckel's ganglion motores oculorum nervus vagus of arm. olfactory ophthalmic optic . otic ganglion pathetici phr-enic pneumo-gastric portio dura portio mollis sacral plexus semilunar ganglia solar plexus spheno-palatiue splanchnic spinal superior maxillary 755 PAGE . 325 . 164 . 169 . 172 . 176 . 192 . 165 . 174 . 175 . 173 . 181 . 169 . 170 . 168 . 168 . 172 . 182 . 191 . 166 . 170 . 177 . 165 . 167 . 165 . 191 . 166 . 17G . 170 . 169 . 170 . 185 . 193 . 193 . 190 . 193 . 174 . 167 •756 INDEX. PAGE Nerves, sympathetic .... 189 temporo-auricular . . • .169 thoracic ganglia ■'. . . . 193 trigemini . .' . . . 166 Noli me tangere .• . . . • . 457 Nou-azotised substances . . . 413 Nails . . . . . . 419 • Neck, dissection of .. . . . 282 Nose, description of . . . . 209 (Edema ..... 449 (Esophagus . . . . . 220 Oleic acid ..... 413 Onyx . . . ... 490 Ophthalmia tarsi .... 481 Orbit . . . . . . 194 Orchitis . . . • .566 Os innominatum, muscles attached . . . 31 Ossicula auditus .... 205 Osteo carcinoma . . - • • 634 cephaloma • " . . • 634 cystoma . . • • • 634 melanosis .... 634 Osteoma . . ■ • - 633 Ovaries . . • • • 376 Palate, soft . . • . . 216 Palmar region .... 364 Pancreas . • • • • 253 Pancreatic juice .... 415 use . ■ • • 439 PapiUce of the tongue . . • .212 Paracentesis thoracis . . • • 511 Parapliymosis .... 578 Paronychia . . • • • 733 Parotid gland . . . . . 217 region . . . • 308 Patella, muscles attached . . . . 35 Pelvic viscera .... 262757 INDEX. Pelvis, bones of false . true ■ • ■ Penis Pericardium Perineum, female male Peritoneum . • • • Phalanges of hand, muscles attached Pharynx Phlebitis Phymosis Physiology Pia mater Pigment cells . Pillars of fauces Pineal gland . Plantar region Pleura PUca semilunaris . Polypi, nasal . Pons varolii Popliteal region Pott's disease of spine Prolapsus ani Prostate gland diseases of Protcine Pterygium Ptosis . Pupil, artificial Purulent ophthalmia Pus . . . Pustule, malignant Rachitis Radius . PAGE . 23 . 30 . 304 . 271 . 229 . 274 . 375 . 240 . 73 218, 322 . 679 . 578 . 409 . 144 . 422 . 422 . 329 . 153 . 407 . 226 . 197 . 498 157 . 394 . 627 . 599 . 270 . 583 410 489 482 495 489 418 464 633 65 409758 INDEX. PAGE Radius, muscles attached . . .66 Eectum. . . . . . 248 diseases of . . . . 595 structure of . . , . 599 Reflexions of peritoueum . . . 241 ReU, island of . . . . . 156 Resolution ..... 448 Respiration . . . . , 438 Retina . . . . .200 Rivinus, ducts of . • . . . . 218 Sacrum, muscles attached . . .31 Saliva . . . . . . 415 secretion of . . . . 439 Salivary concretions . . . . 415 fistula . . . .497 Scalds and burns . . . . . 722 Scalp . . . . . . 279 inflammation . • . . 466 wounds .... 465 Scapula . . . . .59 muscles attached . . . . 62 Scarpa's triangle .... 384 Scirrhus of rectum . . . . 600 Sclerotic coat. . . • .199 Sclerotitis . . • . . 490 Scrofula . . . • -694 Scrotum . . . . . 266 Secondary syphilis . . . .579 Secretmg glands . . . • • 430 Secretion . . . • .438 Semen, secretion of . . • • 440 Septum scroti .... 267 Serous membranes . . • • 429 Shoulder-joint . . " . .77 Sigmoid flexure of colon . .... 248 Sinuses of dura mater . . . .141 Skeleton, divisions of . . . . 7Skin, description of functions of . SmeU Socia parotidis Soft palate Spermatic cord Spina bifida . Spinal cord Spine bones of ligaments of . general ligaments muscles attached Spleen use of Stapes Staphyloma Stearic acid . Steatoma Steno's duct . Stomach Stricture of urethra spasmodic Strumous ophthalmia Stye Sublingual gland Submaxillary gland Sugar (diabetic) Surgery Suppuration . Sylvius, fissure of . Symblepharon Synovia . Synovial membranes Synovitis Syphilis Syphilitic eruptions INDEX. 759 PAGE .213 . 444! ' . 444 . .310 . 326 . 269 . 732 . 161 . 17 8 . 12 • 13 • 15 . 254 . 434 .206 . 490 . 413 . 681 . 310 . 242 . 568 . 571 . 487 . 481 . 218 . 217 . 413 . 445 . 450 . . 156 . 482 . 418 . 429 . 635 . 576 , 581760 INDEX. Sweat Tapping the bladder Tarsus Taste . Tears secretion of . Teeth, composition description of growth structure . Tendons Testes . , . Testis, diseases of Tetanus Thalami optici Thoracic duct viscera . Thorax, bones of injuries of Throat, wounds of Thymus gland Thyroid cartilage gland Tibia, muscles attached Tinea ciliaris Tissu jaune Tissue, adipose areolar fibrous nervous yellow elastic Tongue description of diseases of Tonsillitis Tonsils Trachea . PAGE . 417 . 572 . 39 . US . 418 . 438 . 419 . 99 . 103 . 102 .419 . 268 . 586 . . 725 . 150 . 238 •. 226 • . 16 . 508 .505 . 227 . 220 . 225, 289 . 38 . 481 . 423 . 422 . 422 . 423 . . 426 . 423 . 328 . 211 . 501 . 502 216, 330 . 224INDEX. Tracheotomy . Trephine operation Triangles of neck Trichiasis TumouTj puffy Tumours, classification . Tunica' Jacobi . vaginalis Tympanum Ulceration Ulcers . varieties Ulna . muscles attached . Upper extremities Urea . Ureters . Urethra Uric acid Urinary calculi Urine retention of secretion of . Uterus . functions of Uvula . Varicocele Varicose aneurism . veins Vein, internal jugular Veins, basilic . cephalic median saphcna Veins, structure of Velum intcrpositum pendulum palati . 761 PAGE . 505 . 477 . 287 . 479 . 467 . 679 . 200 . 267 . 204 . 451 . 457 . 454 . 67 . 68 . 341 . 412 . 256 . 263 . 413 . 713 . 417 . 571. . 440 . 275 . 441 216, 327 . 588 . 674 . 676 . 283 . 351 . 351 . 352 . 397 . 427 . 152 . 326762 INDEX. PAGE Vena azygos . . . . . 237 portse ..... 252 Ventricles of brain . . . . 148 Ventricle, third . . . .152 fourth . . . . . 155 Vertebrse, cervical. . . . . 9 dorsal . . . .10 lumbar . . . . . 11 parts of . . . .8 Verumontanuin . . . • 263 Vesiculse seminales . - • • 270 use . . . • 441 Vestibule . . • . . 207 Vision . . . . -441 Vitreous humour . . . . • 202 Voice . . . • -4*4. WartSj syphilitic . . • • • ^83 Wharton's duct . . • .218 White swelling . . • • • 636 Willis, circle of . • • .163 Wounds, simple incised . . • • 465 contused . . • ' • ^^4 Wrist-joint . • • . . 81 C. andJ. Adlard, Printers, Bartholomew C)ose.DR. STEGGALL^S MEDICAL WORKS; PUBLISHED BY JOHN CHUECHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO. I. A MANUAL FOR APOTHECARIES' HALL. Eleventh Edition, 10«. This Work, the utility of which has been amply attested by having passed through ten editions, is in the present one considerably altered and increased, so as to embrace the improvements and discoveries up to the present period. Nearly every subject has been much extended, with the expectation that it not only will be found serviceable to gentlemen preparing for Apothecaries' Hall, but to those qualifying themselves for other Medical Examinations. The subjects treated of are: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY. DECOMPOSITIONS OF THE PHAR- MACOPffilA. 6GRERAL CHEMISTRY. TOXICOLOGY. MATERIA MEDICA. ANATOMY. PHYSIOLOGY. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. MIDWIFERY. • BOTANY.2 DR. STEGGALL'S MEDICAL CLASS BOOKS. The following Works contain the entire Classical Latin required for Examination at Apothecaries^ Hall. II. DR. GREGOEY^S "CONSPECTUS MEDICINE THEORETICS," EMBRACING PATHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Price Ten Shillings. This Edition of the Work contains the original Latin Text, with an order of construction, and a Uteral trans- lation on the same page. Extract to show the style of the Work: 187. Jnxietas, medico sensfQ,, oritur imprimis, a qu&cunque causO, turbante vel impediente motum san- guinis, per cor, que magna vasa prope cor que pulmo- nem. Hinc comitatur mul- tiplicia vitia cordis que vasorum ejus, (scilicet) am- plijicationem, constrictio- nem, conversionem in os, polypum, palpitationem, syn- cnpen, ivjlammationem, de- bititatem, et idea nonnullos affectus animi. 187. Anxietas, medico sensu, oritur imprimis a causa quacun- que sanguinis motum, per cor vasaque magna prope cor pulmo- nemque, turbante vel impediente. Hinc vitia cordis ejusque vasorum multiplicia, amplificationem, con- strictionem, conversionem in os, polypum, palpitationem, synco- pen, inflammationem, debilitatem, et ideo nonnullos animi affectus. 187. Anxiety, in a medical sense, arises especially from every cause disturbing or impeding tlie motion of the blood through the heart, and the large vessels near tile heart and lungs. Hence it accompanies the numerous disorders of the heart and its vessels; such as enlargement, narrowing, ossification, polypus, palpi- tation, syncope, iuOammation, debility, and, consequently, some affections oi the mind.DR. STEGGALL'S MEDICAL CLASS BOOKS. 3 III. THE FIRST FOUR BOOKS OF "CELSUS DE MEDICINA," WITH THE TKXT, ORDO VERBORUM, AND TRANSLATION. Price MgM Shillings. PLAN OF THE WORK : XIV Si vero tertiana, quae ex xiv. Verhsiest tertiana, . , i „ . aut Quartana, qua inter- toto intermittit, aut quartana est, ^.^^./^^ . 1^^^^, ^ie- mediis diebus, et ambulationibus, ^^^^ oportet uti et ambu- uti oportet, aliisque exercitationi- lationibus, que aliis exerci- bus et unctionibus. Quidam ex tationibus, et unctionibus, antiquioribus medicis Cleopban- ^x antiquioribm ^. , ^ i^iv,,,^ medtcis, (nomine) Ueo- tu8 in hoc genere morborum, J .^^^^^ ^J^^^ multo ante accessionem, per i,orum, multo ante acces- caput segrum multa calida aqua sionem perfundebat cegrum perfundebat, deinde vinum dabat. per caput multd calidd Quod, quamvis pleraque ejus viri ^einde^ dabat vinum^ prsecepta secutus est Asclepiades, Z% prJtlrUt%uamv7se. recte tamen prsetemt: est enim cuius est pleraque prcecepia anceps. ejus viri: enim est anceps. XIV. If it is a tertian or quartan, which intermits completely, on the intermediate days, it is proper to have recourse to both walking and other exercises and anointing. One of the more ancient physicians, named Cleophantus, in this kind of disesise, some time before the paroxysm, bathed the patient from over the head, with a great quantity of warm water, and then gave him wine, which Asclepiades, however, has properly omitted, although he followed most of the precepts of that man: for it is doubtful (as to its good effect.)DR. STEGGALL'S MEDICAL CLASS BOOKS. IV. THE ENTIRE WORKS OF A. C. CELSUS DE MEDICINA, Lib. VIII. Price Seven Shillings. This Edition, in accordance with the Version of Takga, has been carefully printed, and is more free from typo- graphical errors than any other containing the same text.PRIVATE TUITION. DR. STEGGALL Continues to assist Gentlemen in their studies, preparatory to Examination at the various CoUeges and HaUs.by Private Instruction, either in Classes or separately. The hours devoted to this purpose are, in the morning, from Eight to Nine, and Ten to One; and, from Three to Five, and Six to Nine o'clock, p. m. terms: £ s. 5 5 For Examination for the Royal College of Surgeons HaU 5 5 For Tuition in Reading Latin Authors 5 5 For the Three, entered for at one payment . . . 12 12 The terms for the Royal College of Physicians, Army, and Navy Board, are arranged according to the period of Reading requisite. LECTURES ON MATERIA MEDIC A AND THERAPEUTICS ARE DELIVKBED AT THE CHARING-CROSS HOSPITAL, BY JOHN STEGGALL, M.D., Late Senior Physician to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, Graduate of the Univer- sity of Bologna, and of Pisa, Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, Licentiate of the Apothecaries' Company, London; Author of a Text Book on Materia Medica, Elements of Botany, ^c. Terms : Sessional Course, £i 4s. . . . Unlimited, £5 5s.