KING’S College LONDON ftQ^ <{h/l Library 201241971 7 KINGS COLLEGE LONDONTHE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY, VOLUME SECOND; COMPKISIVO THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, AND ITS APPLICATION TO INJURIES, AND OPERATIONS. BY JOHN BURNS, M.D., F.R.S. REGIUS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW, &c., &c. LONDON: LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS. MDCCCXXXVIIl.n L Glasgow ;_rriiited at the University I’rcss, by E. KhulL /TO SIR ASTLEY PASTON COOPER, Bart., &e., &c., WHOSE HIGH TALENTS AND UNWEARIED LABOURS HAVE RENDERED HIM SO JUSTLY PREEMINENT, AND HAVE SO GREATLY ADVANCED THE PRIN- CIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY; AND WHOSE EXAMPLE HAS SO POWERFULLY STIMULATED THE YOUNG TO EXERTION. THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED, AS A MARK OF RESPECT AND REGARD, BY THE AUTHOR1 mill I n uM " V -■'3- rilH t.. fy .. I ■ .1^/, .‘I (.-'5 '■■ ■' «i iW.t uii *’•;•. <•■ ■' :i'• '' ..': r ''‘i’ <J'- *''■ '■> • •' <,' •' ' ' ' . •*J»A •' ■ » <{• . i >» . ■* ' f> ■ .>, \ : - u' . r ;-i. <i; ; r . i ,.:■ ; ./ rir - .t’.N^.l i-.'rr..; tn4 ‘4 ■ ,-<«•{ I Ml^ *■'■ a« .04^. N r.t ■■ ■ ■ ■ ;»^K ■. V :.i/ yil ' » ** r •« .iit»ui!i \ ^y- il’.' t' iPREFACE. The First Volume of this work contains the Pathologi- cal ; this the Anatomical, or Mechanical Principles of Surgery, which completes the plan I proposed. A con- siderable part of this volume was printed some years ago, and from time to time has been carried on, till it is now finished. It is intended for two purposes : First, To be a guide, or assistance, to the student, in the dis- secting room, enabling him, with one of the ordinary manuals, to trace the different parts of the body, with a view to their practical importance, and to acquiring a facility of finding them, when necessary, in the living subject. If employed for this purpose, it will be much for his advantage, that he mark the differences which may exist, in the individual he is examining. Second, To assist the surgeon in studying the nature of injuries, the relations of tumours, and in planning his operations. Some important errors of the press have been discov- ered, which it will be proper to correct with the pen before the reader employ the volume.»r •• r i ■y .• ' "• ■ X... I , , ;•..*■! '3>ii JJ«i- ai/f) 'io :>«jfrloV •»/! ' ro.it^^ptiul -to M-H^u4bvh - h'i -inn I. ■ .h-JBoqo-ni { ir:U<f oHl HiiiV/ ‘3mw byliii'Ki ofiiulo’/'-.‘m^ ' *ii iiri ,a\> byn ii-v ii:;:/-* onjti i'*^'- '^, ^.'j'.'ff'l : ''■.y<'‘> .fi *i! u-'vl v.un ->/rh oH: ni ;lK3h:n« f. iv ,-j!}iu^ n 'jJ *- 'wf) '’a 'jao 7/tllt'.''«.-J .SirOu'i »(l'Vf ,vlwf oK? *^o fiJ'i* ■; * bt t>i hiUi ^inuiJioqn.l WnS-i-rxii -'jCI Oi. v'^;, i; 'p*«-fvii o?tl !!{ ,Y'ir^3oo'jii lo "• 'ioi ?h!Hoi vr;uf oill jhsr'T vr( 6i.' JiiDiiy'-* .j^uuiiim>X'3 i>.i u»! Kvbi‘'*ii>!• ni ‘ 'lo iytn-iiu’.^iSi >,ruvhiiM ill -jdi J2i^ - .L;u?^:tx|o r.f’-Ki.nla ni h;rn .dnomni • k ■' 1 ■ Wxf«iS u aiii'io fr-orn . 3:r<K. (rkfytj; ,i^W^ '''■ ' ’ ,ntr«iloY'iii? VwnjClf'J'i^bnii'. .Hi *yi t" & •' -n. a ■VCONTENTS. CHAP. I. Op the Anatomy op the Neck. General account of the ligaments, 2;—Muscles, 4;—Tumours and suppuration, 14;—Abscess near the spine, 15;—Laryngeal car- tilages, 16;—Trachea, 19 ;—Thyroid gland, 20;—Thymus, 22;—Relative distances, 23;—Glottis, 23;—Epiglottis, 25;— How to introduce a tube into the larynx, 27;—Laryngitis, 30; —Question of operation, 31;—Croup, 37;—^Tracheotomy and laryngotomy, 35 ;—Pharynx and oesophagus, 37 ;—Muscles, 38 ;—Affections of oesophagus, 40 ;—Pharyngotomy, 43 ;— Nerves of pharynx, 45 ;—Tumour and inflammation of phar- ynx, 46;—Muscles of the neck, throat, and tongue, 47;— Fascia of the neck, 56 ;—Deep fascia at the under part, 63 ; Arteria innominata, 67;—Operation for tying, 72;—Right carotid,74;—Left, 75;—Relations of the common, 76;—Tho- racic duct, 79 ;—Tying the carotid, 80 ;—Division of carotid, 86 ;—Tract of external, 89 ;—Tying it, 90 ;—Internal caro- tid, 96 ;—Thyroidea superior, 96 ;—Injury of, 97 ;—Tying it, 99;—Lingual, 99;—Tying it, 100;—Ranular artery, 103 ;—Facial artery, 104 ;—Occipital, 106 ;—Vertebral, 108; —Ossification of basilar artery, 112 ;—Disease of medulla, 113;—Supra scapular artery, 117 ;—Posterior scapular, 119; —Transversalis colli, 119 ;—Cervicalis profunda, 120 ;—Infe- rior thyroid, 121;—Veins of the neck, 123 ;—Course of the in- ternal jugular, 126 ;—Tributary veins, 126 ;—Effect of tying, 129;—Vertebral vein, 129;—Vena innominata, 131 ;—Lym- phatics, 133;—Glands, 134;—Nerves, 136;—Sub-occipital, 136 ;—Cervical, 137 ;—Great occipital, 138 ;—Little occipitalVlll and auricular, 139;—Superficial nerves, 146;—Phrenic nerve, 147;—EflFect of dividingr, 149;—Spinal accessory, 149;— Sympathetic, 151;—Cardiac nerves, 153;—EflFect of dividing' the sympathetic, 157 ;_Pneumogastric nerves, 157 ;—Phar- yngeal, 158 ;—Glosso-pharyngeal, 159 ;—Superior laryngeal, IfiO;—Recurrent, 161;—EflFect of dividing, 163;—Croup, 163;—Extirpation of the thyroid gland, 164;—Cardiac nerves, 168;—EflFect of dividing the pneumogastric nerve, 169;— Tumour in the neck, 171—186 ;—Wounds, 186—198. CHAP. II. ' Of the Anatomy op the Head. Tongue, 198;—Its size, shape, &c., 199;—Structure, 199;— Covering and papillae, 201;—Diseases, 204;—Submaxillary gland, 208;—Extirpation of, 210;—Sublingual, 209;—Dis- ease of, 211 ;—Tonsil and its diseases, 212;—Parotid gland and its diseases, 214;—Extirpation of, 220;—Ear, 223;— Nostril, 225;—Lachrymal duct, 227;—Frontal, and other sinuses, 228;—Antrum and its diseases, 229;—Orbit, 231 ; —Lachrymal gland, 232;—Eyelid, 233;—Sac, 234;—Nerves in the orbit, 235 ;—Muscles of the face, 236 ;—Articulation of the jaw, and dislocation, 240 ;—Tumours, 243 ;—Lips, 244 ;—Facial artery, 246 ;—Transversalis faciei, &c., 248 ;— Temporal and internal maxillary, 248;—Epistaxis, 252 ;— Opening the temporal artery, 255 ;—Veins of the face, 256; —Nerves, 257 ;—Wounds, 266. CHAP. III. Op the Anatomy of the Clavicular Region, and Upper Extremity. General remarks, 269 ;—Subclavian artery, 272;—Veins con- nected with it, 273;—Operation for tying, 275;—Pectoral and axillary region, and its muscles, 279;—Relation of the artery below the clavicle, 284;—View of the axilla in front, 286 ;—Tlioracic arteries, 288 ;—Infra scapular, 290 ;—Cir- cumflex, 291 ;—View of axilla from below, 294 ;—Relation of the artery on the latissimus dorsi, 295;—How to expose, it, 296 ; Mamma, 297 ;—Articulation of the shoulder, 302;IX —Muscles, 303;—Dislocation, 307 ;—Fracture of the cervix, 309;—Amputation of the joint, 310;—Muscles and fascia of the arm, 311;—Tract of the brachial artery, 314 ;—Axillary plexus, and nerves of the arm, 315 ;—Veins of the arm, 322 ; —Relation of the brachial artery, 323 ;—Branches given off, in the arm, 324;—Operation of tying the brachial artery, 327 ;—Lymphatics, 329;—How to expose the nerves, 330 ; —Fracture of the humerus, 332 ;—Elbow joint, 335 ;—Frac- ture of the olecranon, 338 ;—Muscles about the joint, 339; Dislocation of the elbow, 342 ;—Of the radius, 346 ;—Rela- tion of parts in front of the joint, 348;—Aneurismal varix, 351;—Varicose aneurism, 353 ;—The operation for it, 351;— Muscles of the fore arm in front, 352;—Behind, 356 ;—Sub- division of the brachial, and course of the radial artery, 356 ; —Course of the ulnar, 359;—Interossea, 360;—Subcutaneous nerves, 361;—Radial nerve, 362;—Ulnar, 363;—Median, 364;—How to expose and tie the radial artery, 365 ;—Ope- ration for the ulnar, 367 ;—-Fracture of the radius, 368 ;— Wrist joint, 370;—Tendons at the joint, 373;—Dislocation, 375 ;—Of the ulna, 376 ;—Palmar aponeurosis, 377 ;—Mus- cles of the hand, 378 ;—Fascia of the hand, 380 ;—Whitlow, 382;—Articulation and dislocation of the thumb, 384;— Arteries of the hand, 385;—Nerves, 388 ;—Wounds of the arteries, 390 ;—Amputation of the thumb, 390. CHAP. IV. Of the Pelvic Region. General remarks, 391 ;—Muscles and general view of the con- tents, 392;—Fascia, 393;—Cavity and its muscles, 394;— Subdivision of the aorta, 395;—Of the vein, 396;—Iliacs and epigastric, 396 ;—Nerves of abdominal parietes, and the lumbar and sacral nerves, 397;—Operation for tying the external iliac artery, 401 ;—For the common iliac, 404;— For the internal, 405 ;~The gluteal, 407 ;—Ischiatica, 407; Pudic artery and nerve, 407;—Ischiatic hernia, 408;—Fora- men thyroideum and hernia, 408;—Pubic ligament, 409;— Triangular fascia, 410;—Pelvic fascia and investment of the prostate gland, 411 ;—Entrance of the urethra, 412;—Peri-I *av.jir7 trvff X ncum,413;—x^cceleratol•, 414;—Corpora cavernosa and erec- tores, 415 ;—Transversalis perinei, 415;—Levator ani, 416; —Membranous portion of the urethra and Couper’s glands, 417 ;—Prostate gland, 417 ;—Relative position, 418;—Blad- der, 418;—Ureter, 420;—Vesiculaj, and vasa deferentia, 421; —Lateral section of the pelvis, 421;—Pudic artery and its branches, 422;—Pudic and gluteal nerve, 424;—Introduc- tion of the catheter, 424 ;—Retention of urine, 426;—Stric- ture, 427 ;—Enlargement of the prostate, 428 ;—Lithotomy, 429 ;—General remarks on the abdominal muscles, 434; External oblique, linea alba, and umbilicus, 434;—Internal oblique, 435;—Transversalis muscle and fascia, 436 ;—Pou- part’s ligament and crescentic implantation, 437;—Ring or inferior aperture, 438 ;—Exit of the cord or round ligament, 439;—Transversalis muscle, 439;—Fascia, 441;—Inguinal canal, 441;—Its length and upper aperture, 442 ;—Hernia and its coverings, 443 ;—Stricture of hernia, 443 ;—Reduc- tion, 444 ;—Operation for common inguinal hernia, 445;— Mode of cutting the stricture exterior to the sac, 447;— Direct or ventro-inguinal hernia, 448 ;—Congenital hernia, 449 ;—Crescentic ring and parts concerned in femoral hernia, 456 ;—Seat of the stricture, 453 ;—Operation, 454. CHAP. V. p THE Anatomy of the Inferior Extremity. View of the muscles of the thigh, 456;—Fascia of the thigh, 461; —Dislocation of the hip joint, on the dorsum, 462 ;—Into the notch, 464;—Into the lesser notch, 465;—Into the foramen thyroideum, 466;—Upwards, 466;—Structure of the hip joint, 468 ;—Neck of the bone, 469 ;—Fracture of the neck, and mode of union in extra-capsular, and intra-capsular, 470; —State of the muscles, 472;—Marks of fracture of the neck, 472;—Treatment, 475;—Fracture of the trochanter, 476; —Fracture below the trochanter minor, 476;—Fracture in the middle third of the bone, 477 ;—Fracture above the con- dyles, 477 ;—Oblique fracture of the condyle, 478 ;—Point at which the femoral artery issues from under the ligament, and its course, 479;—Its relations in the groin, 479; Femo-XI ral vein, 480;—Anterior crural nerve, 480;—Sartorian nerve, 480 ;—Saphenus, 481;—Sartorius muscle and its rela- tion to the artery, 481;—Superficial circumflexa ilii, 482 ;— Profunda and its point of origin, 482;—Circumflex arteries, 482;—Perforating arteries, 483;—Obturator Artery, 483; Femoral vein, 485;—Saphena, 484;—Deep nerves, 485;— Cutaneous nerves in front, 486 ;—Sciatic nerve, 487 ;—Pos- terior cutaneous nerves, 487 ;—Operation of tying the femo- ral artery in the upper third of the thigh, 488 ;—In the lower part of the thigh, 489 ;—At the groin, 491;—Relation of parts in the ham, 492 ;—Operation there, 493 ;—Structure of the knee joint, 494;—Increase of synovia, 496 ;—Articu- lation of the fibula above, 497 ;—State of the joint in flexion, 497 ;—Dislocation of the tibia backward, 497;—Forward, 498 ; —Lateral or partial, 499;—Dislocation of the patella, 499;— Fracture of the patella, 500 ;—Fascia and muscles of the front of the leg, 501;—Posterior muscles, 503 ;—Fascia and aponeurosis at the ankle, 505 ;—Order of the tendons at the ankle, 505 ;—Muscles on the dorsum of the foot, 506 ;—On the sole, 507 ;—-Articulation at the ankle, 509 ;—Of the tar- sjil and metatarsal bones, 510;—Fracture of the tibia and fibula, 511;—Fracture near the ankle, 512 ;—Fracture of the fibula, 513 ;—Dislocation of the ankle inward, 514;—Out- ward, 515 ;—Forward, 514 ;—Backward, 516 ;—Dislocation of the astragalus, 516 ;—Of the other bones of the foot, 517; —'Club foot, 518;—Amputation at the tarsal articulation, 519 ;—At the metatarsal, 520 ;—Of the great toe, 521 ; Posterior tibial artery, 521;—Peronea, 522;—Anterior tibial artery, 523 ;—Veins, 524;—Superficial nerves of the leg, 524;—Deep nerves, 525;—Deep arteries of the foot, 526 ;—Plantar nerves, 529 ;—Operation for tying the poste- rior tibial artery at the top of the leg, 529 ;_At the calf, 530;—Above t!»e ankle, 531;—At the ankle, 531 ;—Tying the peronea, 532 ;—How to expose the tibialis antica above the ankle, 532 ;—About the middle of the leg, 533;—In the upper part of the leg, 534.ADDENDA ET CORRIGENDA. Page 10, line 4, from the bottom, for “ about three quarters,” read “ about from five-eighths to three quarters.” 12, — \9,for “ nearly,” read “ not quite,” line 20, after “ by it," add, “ for about half an inch, being an inch and an eighth, out, from the articulation." •24, — 13, from the bottom, place a comma after “inflamed.” 40, — ^,for “and three quarters,” read “a half to five, and three quarters.” 47, — 9, from the bottom, “ lies,” read “ lie.” 48, — 10,/or “ thyroideus,” reac? “ hyoideus.” 56, A strange mistake or transposition has occurred in the text, which may be easiest corrected, by obliterat- ing lines 4—11, inclusive, and reading, “The muscles of the tongue are double, that is, each half has its own set. The genio-hyoglossi are ap- plied to each other in the median line. The hyoglossi, one on either side, go to the margins. Between these two sets is interposed a thin strip of muscle, the lingalis, extending from the os hyoi- dei to the point of the tongue. If we place the fingers at the root of the tongue before the epi- glottis, we feel the os hyoides, and press on the attachment of the genio-hyoglossi and lingales.” 59, — 3, from the bottom, for “ From the angle, read “ From the styloid process, the angle.” 68, — 8, from the bottom, for “ is,” read “ are.” — — 13, from the top, after “articulation,” add, “ The artery, at the bifurcation, is about an inch and an eighth, back, from the outer surface or face of the clavicle.” 69, — 10, for “ behind,” read “ below.” — — 12, after “ five,” add, “ sometimes only three.” 83, — 3, from the bottom, “ the,” read “ a.” 88> — 10, q/ier “ process,” add, “ or sometimes it passes between the muscles, the stylo byoideus being behind it.” 91, — 2, from the bottom, for “ within,” read“ below.” 193, — 3, from the bottom,/>r “ is very,” read “ is not very.” — 2, for “ and,” read “ yet,” and last line, for “ artery or vein,” read “ artery but oftener the vein.” 104, — 5, for “close by,” read “rather to.” 105, — 2,/or “on,” reaii“in.” 199, — after “ artery,” add, “ when that does not arise from the thyroid.” Ill, last line, for “ spinalis,” read “ spinalis.” 119, — 5,Jdr “ thoracic humerus,” read “ thoracica humeraria.”XIV Pajje 119, — 120, » — 122, — 126, — 128, — 131, — 149, — 150, — 157, — 161, — 179, — 187, — 206, — 215, — 231, _ 239, — 240, — 241, — 248, — 263, line 9,/«/• “ it is a deep artery and arises, ’’ read ”it may come ofF along with the thyroid, and cross the sca- lenus, or rise just after.” — 12, for “ It is therefore,” read “ in which case it is.” — 4, from the bottom,_/br “ often,” read “ more frequently.” add, “ It thus appears that though the supra and posterior scapular arteries most frequently arise from the thyroid axis, yet, either may come directly from the subclavian, or, both may rise by a common trunk. — 6, from the bottom, ybr “ spina,” read “ spinae.” — 17,/or “ longer,” read “ larger.’* — 9,/or “ fascial,” rearf “ facial.” — 12,/or “ the internal,” read “the front or median line of the internal.” — 14,Jbr “ one half,” read “ three quarters.” — \9,for “cover the scalenus, and in part the subclavian,” read “cover in part the scalenus and the sub- clavian.” — 24, ayter “ inch,” add, “ It varies from five to seven- eighths. The inner margin is from three-eighths, to half an inch, and the outer, from an inch to an inch and three-eighths. — 28, delete “ rather.” — 24, after “ from,” add “ sometimes only three-eighths.” Note. “ Since this part of the work was printed, some inter- esting experiments on the subject by Sir Astley Cooper, will be found in Guy's Hospital Reports, Vol. i. p. 457.” — 15, after “vein,” add, “and it is not unusual to find it pass differently in opposite sides of the neck.” last line,/or “jugular,” read “ganglion.” — 7, at “constrictor,” refer to this note. “This is seen, if we cautiously remove the mucous membrane from the muscles, in a direction from the trunk of the nerve, toward its extremities. With the microscope, we can then distinctly see the branches penetrating into the muscle.” %,for “ inch,” read “ inch and a half.” — 10,/or “ even,” read “ also.” 3, from the bottom,/>r “ is,” read “ remains.” — 7, from the bottom,/or “ between the pterygoidei,” read “ between the pter^'goideus and the bone.” — 14, for “ transversalis,” read “ transversales.” — \5,for “ at,” read “ on.” — 28, after “ palatine,” add, “ or cover the termination of the maxillary trunk.” — 5, for “ low,” read “ loose.” — 28, for “the maxillary,” ?ead “ a branch ofthe maxillary.” — 17,/or “the,” reac? “ this.” — 19, for “ the internal,” read “ a branch of the internal.”, — 9, Jbr “ under,” reorf “ under or within.” — 6, from the bottom,_/or “as the radial artery at its ori- gin,” read “ at its origin as the radial artery.” 4, from the bottom, add the following paragraph. “When the third branch issues from the foramen ovale, and ^ just before it divides into its four branches, there isXV discernible, attached to its inner surface, a small thin pulpy ganglion. This, the otic ganglion, is best seen, by making a vertical section of the head. Its principal ramus enters the tensor tympani.” Page 266, line 21,/or “ 132,” read “232.” — 307, — 8, from the bottom, after “ artery,” add, “ If the sub- scapularis be torn near its tendon, the vessels and nerves may lie before the head of the bone. — 308, — 18, after “inward,” add, “ We may also reduce by rais- ing the arm, by the side of the head, and extend- ing in that direction. This position rela^xes the spinati muscles.” — — — 22, after “ bone,” add, “ When the muscle is torn, it is usually at the upper margin, but still more or less of it, is raised from the scapula, and covers the head of the bone.” — — — 26, after “process,” add, “and partly covered by th^ pectoralis minor.” — 348, — 2, for “ about an eighth,” read “ from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch.” — — — 11, q/?er “place,” adc?, “yet there are instances where we succeed best by supination.” addio the paragraph, “ The radius may be dislocated outward.” — 361, last line, delete “ It,” and after “ thumb,” add, “ about the top of which, and at the wrist, it is lost. But if the radial be small, then it.” — 376, — after line 24, add, “ In the Museum at St. Bartholemew’s Hospital, there is a fine preparation of dislocation backward. The front of the radius is absorbed in so far, as to form a fossa for the reception of the scaphoides and lunare. The radius is moved a little inward, so that the trapezium projects slightly at the side. The ulna projects inward. The meta- ' carpal bones have been sawed through, but the hand does not appear to have been materially bent back.” '' ■— 379, — 17,/or“ This is,” This last is.” — 392, — 2, from the bottom,/or “ former,” read “latter.” — — — last line,/>r “ latter,” reacf “ former.” — 394, — 17, after “ fascia,” add, “ along the lower margin of this, run the obturator vessels and nerves.” — 408, — 8, from the bottom,/or “ penis,” read “ perineum,” — 409, first line, q/er “pelvis,” add, “The obturator vessels and nerves run forward, about three-fourths of an inch below the brim. The nerve is higher than the artery, with the vein partly between them, or partially covered by them.” ~ 413, — 15, q/er “given,” refer to this note. “Since this was printed, Muller gives very nearly the same descrip- tion, which being done without communication, corroborates the account. Santorini also depicts it nearly so.” 416, 1 l,/>r “transversalispenis,” read “transversalisperinei.” 417, • 14, Irom the bottom, refer to the following note. “ At two years of age, the gland, at the bladder, is five- eighths broad, and three-eighths thick. It ISXVI Page 4.23, — 432, — 443, — 465, — 489, — 490, — 494, — 496, nearly as long as it is broad. It is not much less at birth, and does not increase much till after puberty. The bas fond of the bladder, is three- fourths of an inch deep.” line 17, after “ bulb,” add, “ and ramifies in it and the corpus spongiosum.” — 24, after “ surface,” add, “and ramifies onward to its ex- tremity,” — 18,/or “ membranous fibre,” read “ muscular fibre.” Note. “ If the superior aperture can thus, on the one hand, be brought near the inferior, so, on the other, the transversalis and internal oblique may be detached, either before or after the protrusion, from Poupart’s ligament, toward the spine of the ilium. The her- nia is covered by the tendon of the external ob- lique from first to last, and may, or may not, pro- trude from the ring. An oblong tumour is formed along Poupart’s ligament, and when the intestine is pushed back, the arch formed by the muscles is felt, by the fingers, very distinctly. Sometimes in lumbar abscess, the cyst protrudes at this spot, and like hernia, is reducible. A portion of intestine may at times project between the sac and the edge of the muscle. The pain, and other local marks of abscess, together with the state of the general health, will distinguish the case. — 17,/or “ below,” read “ behind.” — 12, for “ better,” read “ refer.” — 13, from the bottom,/or “ saphena,” read “ saphenus.” — 3, for “ deep in,” read “ deep on.” — 14, from bottom!/or “ ligamentous,” read “ligamentum.”THE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. CHAP. I. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE NECK. It is impossible, without much repetition, and even consider- able obscurity, to give a description of the component parts of small divisions of the body, and the exact relative situation of these parts. It appears to me, that the least objectionable plan I can follow, is to give a view seriatem of the different parts composing a natural division of the body; for instance, the neck, fi*om the clavicle to the os hyoides, and then connect these, and if necessary, subdivide them into smaller compart- ments. My object, in this work, is to give an account both of the exact course and direction of individual muscles, vessels, &c. and of the relation of one part to another, whereby a surgeon may have a twofold assistance in studying a case, and planning an operation. • In attempting this, I take it for granted that the reader is well acquainted with common anatomy, or con- sults, along with this, the ordinary systems, for details which are here omitted. Tlie bones, form fixed and primary stations in the topo- graphy of the neck, whence we may ti’ace those lines which serve to subdivide it into smaller and well defined portions. Tliese lines are the muscles, which are not only valuable totlie surgeon, as being themselves liable to injury, but also, and more particularly, by traversing the different boundaries, and thus marking out courses, along which, important vessels and nerves pass. As the mariner by one observation can tell his place, and decide on his path, so can the anatomist by finding during an operation any one knowm point, determine all which surrounds that. He touches the process of a bone, or the margin of a muscle, and immediately knows the bearings of every spot he wishes to avoid, or the most safe and ready course in which to direct the knife in dissection. Nor is this knowledge, of less importance in deciding on the relations of a tumour, the nature of an wound, or the steps of an operation, as yet only in contemplation. There are different bony or cartilaginous points from the jaw and base of the skull, down to the chest and shoulder, which may become of much importance, and these shall be noticed as we pass along. The transverse process of the atlas, the styloid process, the angle of the jaw, the sides of the cervi- cal vertebrae, the cartilages of the larynx, the different parts of the clavicle, the curve of the first rib, are all valuable marks in sui’gery. Setting aside the muscles which connect the lai-yngeal cartilages together, or cover and form part of the gullet, those of the neck and throat, may be divided into three classes. First.) Those which are deep, and intimately connected wnth the vertebrae, and intended for the motion of the head and neck. They lie close on the spine, clinging to the bones, and forming a deep fieshy coat or covering, divisible, nevertheless, into fascicuh, more or less distinct, and through which we find nerves issuing, or alongst which they run. Second, Those which form the more superficial layer, extending from the very back of the neck, round to the mai'gins of the sterno- mastoid muscles. They extend from the head or cervical vertebrae, to the chest or shoulder, and are found in layers disposed at different angles. Third, Those which are par- ticularly connected with, or devoted to the laryngeal and pharyngeal apparatus. They are found where this apparatus is placed, namely, in the middle or anterior part of the throat3 or neck, in the space which would be otherwise vacant between the two sterno-m^stoid muscles. They may be divided into those which go upward from the apparatus to the jaw, tongue, and styloid process of the temporal bone; those which go downward, and connect it with the chest, and those which go from one cartilage to another. Some of the first division O radiate at different angles, and some are pretty deep. Those of the second division are more superficial, and most of them run perpendicularly, or at small angles. The bones themselves are united by intervertebral sub- stance, and kept togetheiv by powerful bands, which do not 1‘equire to be here minutely described, but which, neverthe- less, must not be altogether overlooked. First of all, the atlas is connected to the skull by the capsules, which, on each side, extend from the margins of its articulating surfaces, to those of the occipital condyles. Then, a strong annular ligament, connects the upper rim of the atlas, with that of the foramen magnum. It is not strictly speaking annular, for the capsules of the sides supply its place there, and in them it is lost. It is therefore divided into an anterior and posterior portion. Thus, the space between the atlas and foramen magnum is completely shut up, there is no vacancy. There are, indeed, two small apertures behind, through which the sub-occipital nerves pass out, but by these they are completely filled. The vertebral artery does not require to perforate this; for, emerg- ing from the hole in the transverse process, it runs backward in the groove on the vertebra, between the annular ligament externally, and the dura mater internally, which thus encloses the artery here. But it enters the cranium so abruptly, and turns so directly up at the root of the back part of the articu- lating process, that the canal thus formed is very short. The dura mater is open here to receive the artery, and is lost in the canal. Farther, a broad expansion of fibrous substance extends from the foramen magnum down the front of the vertebrae, called the anterior longitudinal fascia, whilst a simi- lar one, called the posterior, descends along the back of the bodies within the spinal canal. That portion of the vertebrae, which comprehends their arch behind, and processes, has an4 elastic ligamentous substance passing from one bone to another, so as to fill up the void, and complete the canal for the spinal cord. These substances are called the ligamenta subflava. Distinct small muscles also pass between the differ- ent processes, serving not only as moving powers, but also as efficient strengthening bands. These are the intertransversales and interspinales. Larger and more extensive muscles, also, surround, in every direction, the junction of the head and neck, and defend the annular ligament. The recti postici minores, run from the back of the atlas to the occipital bone, and keep in contact with one another. Next, flanking and adhering to their margins by cellular substance, are the recti majores, one on each side, arising fi-om the spine of the dentata, and inserted into the occiput, at the outside of the minores. From the same process, we have other two muscles which run not to the occiput, but the transverse process of the atlas. They lie to the outside of the larger straight muscles, and from their direction are called the inferior oblique muscles. A short thick muscle, extends from the transverse process of the atlas to the occiput, at the outside of the insertion of the rectus major. It forms a base to the two sides of a triangle, completed by the rectus major and inferior obliquus; and in this triangle, imbedded in cellular substance, is lodged the posterior branch of the sub-occipital nerve. Thus, the posterior part of the circle is completed. At the very side, we have the rectus lateralis, which is in contact with the posterior surface of the jugular vein, as it comes out of the foramen lacerum. It is inserted exactly on the inside of the foramen stylo-mastoideum. On the front, the rectus anticus minor, corresponds to the rectus posticus minor behind. It is inserted into the cunei- form bone at the anterior end of the condyle. The rectus major is a longer muscle, and partly covers one still deeper, the longus colli. Thus, the sides and front are secured also. The tendinous glistening oidgin of the scalenus medius, if that be considered as distinct from the posticus, can be traced along the front of the end of the transverse processes of all the vertebrae, up to the atlas, where it is hid by the belly of the digastric muscle and jugular vein. Raising the oiigin withthe knife, at the upper pai't of the neck, and removing a layer of fascia from the lower part of the muscle, we see, at the side of the neck, a mixture of muscular and glistening tendinous " substance, the latter being most distinct at the inner margin of this muscle, which is the rectus. The muscular or outer margin is overlapped, in part, by the origins of the scalenus posticus, whilst it again, at its lower portion, is overlapped by the anticus. Tliis margin of the posticus is glistening, not only from tendon, but also by being covered with a fascia. Raising and turning outward the margin of the rectus, we find that it has been overlapping that of the longus colli, which is also bounded on the inside by a glistening tendinous substance, which goes gradually a little obliquely outward on the face of the muscle. Thus, at the upper part of the neck, we have three tendinous lines, parallel to, and very little dis- tant from each other; those of the scalenus, rectus, and longus. The rectus covers the lateral part of the vertebras, and rests on the anterior wall of the gutter in the transverse processes. It begins slender and peaked below, but becomes thicker and more fleshy as it ascends. It bounds the outer margin of the conimon carotid artery, for about two inches, below the bifur- cation. The artery rests on the longus, but the internal carotid comes to rest on the rectus. Several arterial branches traverse the outer margin of this muscle, which is not quite straight, but tends obliquely inward. The longus colli seems at first to be a long slender and straight muscle, but it is only the inner portion which has this appearance; for the outer, or lateral part, runs so far upward and outward, and then upward and inward, giving the outer margin an obtuse angu- lar appearance; and, indeed, the two portions have different origins. ITie muscles of the back part of the neck are easily under- stood, in so far as practical purposes are concerned. The first and outermost layer on the back and sides consists of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, the latter of which, at the lower part, comes forward to the sternum itself. TTie posterior margin of the trapezius corresponds to the spines of the cer- vical and dorsal vertebrae, and there the two muscles of the6 opposite sides are united by a firm ligamentous intermedium, which, at the upper part, is so strong and defined, as to be called the cervical ligament. From this, the ligamentum nuchffi, there goes off on each side an aponeurosis, which immediately splits into two layers, one going on the outer, the other on »the inner surface of the muscle, which is thus interposed between them, as if it were in a sheath. The outer layer is connected with the subcutaneous cellular substance, and twigs of nerves run on it both upward and downward to get to the skin. The inner is connected by loose cellular mem- brane to the deeper layer of muscles. Pretty large branches of nerves, both from the accessory, and cervical plexus, ramify on it before entering the muscle, and numerous small glands, especially near the clavicle and shoulder, are to be met with, which often enlarge, and form tumours, pi’oductive, from their effect on the nerves, of shooting pain, or feeling of weight, or of burning heat. The upper extremity of the muscle is attached to the lower part of the protuberance on the middle line of the occiput, and, from that, forward along the trans- verse ridge,'to very near the posterior margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle. It becomes broader and thicker as it descends toward the' clavicle and scapula, and is strong and fleshy near the acromion and spine of the scapula, but thinner along the clavicle, and at the side of the neck. It is inserted into the clavicle till about three inches from its sternal end. Its ante- rior margin is united to the posterior one of the sterno-mastoid, sometimes by a very narrow line of fascia, sometimes by one half an inch broad in the course of the neck, and expanding near the clavicle. There, the muscles are generally more sepa- rated, and the intervening space occupied by platysma-myoides and the cervical fascia. In some cases, the trapezius does not come farther forward than two inches and a half, or even one and a half from the acromion, and the interval between it and the mastoid muscle, there, is nearly an inch and three quarters. In others, it is inserted for four inches from tlie acromion; the two muscles are more strongly connected at the lower than the upper part. On clearing away the cellular and fascial connexion between the muscles, wccsee, at the upper part, the7 splenius; lower, the anterior margin is nearly parallel to the scalenus anticus. Tlie sterno-mastoid muscle in a female is about seven inches in length, but its relations are tolerably certain. A point equi- distant from its origin and insertion, generally corresponds to the under margin of the thyroid cartilage. A point half way between this and the mastoid process, corresponds to the line of the os hyoides and origin of the lingual artery. The under margin of the upper eighth, corresponds to the angle of the jaw and belly of the digastric muscle. It is a strong, and pretty broad muscle, arising by two origins. The sternal origin is the thickest, strongly tendinous, and somewhat rounded in its shape. Tlie clavicular origin is thinner, and less tendinous, but it arises from a considerable extent of smTace, namely, from two, to two and a half, inches from the end of the clavicle. The sternal origin, on the other hand, is little more than half an mch broad. The united muscle contracts somewhat, for it soon becomes only an inch and a half broad, and gets a little less as it ascends. It is inserted into the mastoid process, and along the occipital bone, for an inch and a quarter from the end of die process, reaching nearly, sometimes entirely, to the margin of the trapezius. The two portions fr-equendy unite perfecdy, but often they continue for three inches to be con- nected only by cellular substance. The anterior margin is marked by a line drawn fr’om the front of die mastoid process, or angle of the jaw, to the middle of the upper end of the sternum. Its course being oblique, it is connected with dif- ferent muscles. It joins the stemo-thyroideus at the top o^ the thyroid cartilage, and is connected with it all the way down by the cervical fascia. Tie omo-hyoideiis begins to pass obliquely under it, sometimes at its middle, occasionally con- siderably lower, but very often about three quarters of an uich lower than the top of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle com- ing forward as it descends, approaches the sterno-hyoideus, and generally meets its margin about the under part of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior margin may be marked by a line drawn from the occipital bone, about an inch and a quarter8 from the mastoid process, to the clavicle, at fully two inches from its sternal end. riie mastoid muscle has most important relations. One of the external jugular veins traverses it obliquely; many twigs of cutaneous nerves, arising from branches coming out between it and the trapezius, run over it, and at the top a part of the parotid gland rests on it. If we cut it quite away, we display, in front of the trapezius, very important parts. At first it is found to have been resting on the posterior belly of the digastric and on the splenius; a little lower, on the levator sca- pulae, and then partly on the scalenus. But these muscles are not seen distinctly on raising the mastoideus, for they are covered by cellular substance and a deep fascia, imbedded in which is the cervical plexus of nerves. The greatest part, however, of the space is occupied by the jugular vein and the carotid artery, which is seen to the inside of the vein, and partly overlapped by it. The eighth pair of nerves runs between them, and they are crossed obliquely by the omo- hyoideus. A chain of lymphatic glands with their vessels run along the vein by the posterior margin of the muscle, and often some of these enlarge, and prove vex’y troublesome, and even dangerous. Dividing and throwing back the trapezius, we expose the next layer on the back of the neck. This consists of the sple- nius and levator scapulae; but if we go to the very side, and thence forward, we there find the scaleni as a continuation of the sheet. The lateral portion of the layer behind is formed by the levator, which covers or lies on the splenius colli, so as to hide it. The splenius capitis alone is seen. Its anterior margin joins the posterior one of the levator, whilst the muscle itself, extends backward to the very spines of the vertebra? from which it originates, and where it intermixes with the muscle on the other side. It does not, however, continue to arise from all the spines, but stops at the third from the top, where it divaricates, from the one on the other side, so as to show part of the complexus. Often, however, this divarication seems to be higher, owing to pai't of the intervening space9 being filled with a substance like platysma myoides. If we next remove the levator, we see a deeper portion of the splenius going to the transverse processes of the neck, and not to the head. Tliis is the splenius colli, a little bit of which, at the lower part, is overlapped by the splenius capitis. Tlie sple- nius is also covered near the scapula by a thin, aponeurotic, and glistening sheet of muscle, which passes over it, and under the levator at this part, to be inserted into from the second to the fifth rib inclusive. It is the serratus posticus superior, and if tins and the levator be removed, the splenii are exposed, and seen to be tliick, fleshy, and rounded at the lower part. On removing the splenii, a deeper layer is displayed, the upper part of which, or part of the complexus, had been already seen in the divarication of the splenii. The com- plexus is a firm solid mass of muscle, intermixed with tendon, extending fi-om the spinous to the transverse processes, and up to the occiput. It is not quite exposed by removing the splenii, for the lateral part, that nearest the transverse pro- cesses, is covered by that narrow, and at the under half, thin sheet of muscle, the trachelo-mastoideus. This is strength- ened at the side by the transversalis colli, which is so inter- mixed with it, that it is difficult to separate them, and without impropriety, the one may be considered as an addition to the otlier. The transversalis, in its turn, is aided by a muscular slip running by its outside, called cervicalis descendens. If we next turn off the trachdo with these, its lateral additions, we display the whole complexus, and imagine that now we have finished the dissection, by exposing a mass of muscle extending between the spinous and transverse prpcesses, and filling the space, between these, completely up to the head. But on divid- ing the insertion of the complexus at the occiput, and dissecting it down, we find still a deeper layer, which it will be well to divide into that portion which is above, and that which is below, the second vertebra or dentata. The upper portion consists of those short muscles which have been already noticed, the recti, obliqui, &c. The under portion is larger, and more indistinct, resembling a confused mass of flesh and tendinous intersection, buried beneath the complexus, in the hollow10 between the spinous and transverse processes. But even this mass has, by scholastic anatomists, been separated into a deeper and a more superficial layer, the first, or imiermost, being called the midtifidus spinae, the second the semispinalis colli. After all these have been removed, there yet remain the small indi- vidual muscles going between the processes of the different vertebrae. If we run the finger, from the levator, forward toward the trachea, we shall find the groundwork of the expansion near the thorax, to be formed by the scaleni muscles, which are of much importance to the surgeon. These form an angular mass, the base of which being toward the rib, fills up, in part, the hollow under the trapezius. This mass has been divided into two, sometimes three, or more portions, or sepa- rate muscles, but it is sufficient to distinguish an anterior and posterior. The levator scapulm and scalenus posticus are' in contact intimately for a considerable way down, but the thickest part of the scalenus comes to rest on the splenius. The upper portion of the serratus anticus is connected with both the levator and scalenus. If the finger be thrust between the two muscles, after they have been somewhat separated, it will be led down by the one to the scapula, and by the other to the back of the rib. Postponing the consideration of the relation and position of the first rib ■ till another time, I proceed to notice the exact situation of one or two of the deep muscles, and par- ticularly of the scalenus anticus, which is of great import- ance to the surgeon. This arises from the first rib, a little way from its union with the sternum, and within the clavicle. The oriffin is flat and tendinous, has a firm hold of the O upper mai’gin of the rib, and is prolonged for someway do^vn its face. In a full-sized adult, lying on his back, the inner or stei’nal margin, at the rib, will be touched by a probe, or line, di’opped perpendicularly from the clavicle, at a point about three quarters of an inch from the sterno-clavi- cular articulation, or one inch from the side of tlie trachea. Its outer raai’gin corresponds to a line dropped perpendi- cidarly at an inch and a half from the articulation. The11 muscle itself, therefore, were its origin quite flat or straight, should be three quarters of an inch broad. But the line of origin is somewhat curved, and therefore the breadth is not to be altogetHer determined in this way. It varies from half an inch to an inch, but the usual breadth is three quarters of an inch. The distance of the outer margin from the articulation also varies according to the size and shape of the adult, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and three quarters, but the usual distance is an inch and a half. It is of importance to know this, as it marks the point where the subclavian passes out from behind the muscle. The muscle runs up and is inserted into the transverse processes of the 4th, 5th, and 6th, and sometimes also of the 3d cervical ver- tebrae, counting fi*om the head downwards. The inner mar- gin of the continued muscle corresponds nearly to a line drawn from the clavicle, tliree quarters of an inch from the articulation, up to the transverse process of the atlas, and will pass by the side of the top of the diyroid cartilage. The outer margin is marked by a line drawn from the clavicle, at an inch and a half from the articulation, to the same point, or to the jaw, just at the anterior margin of the masseter, the head not turning to either side. The course of the muscle, in the erect posture, is almost direct or perpendicular. It is not loosely connected, but at all times is firm, and bound down by a fascia. The posterior division, or scalenus posticus, arises from both the first and second ribs. It is thicker than the ante- rior, not so flat, consists of different fasciculi, and arises from the whole breadth of the face of the rib. The thinnest part arises from the first, the thickest from the second rib; both united form a mass an inch and a half broad. This becomes narrower as it ascends to be inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of all the cervical vertebrae, except the atlas. The origin from the second rib begins at the back part, about half an inch from the transverse process of the vertebra, and it con- tinues to arise from that, and the first rib, to at least an inch and a half from the process, so as to shut up, along with the anticus, all entrance into the thorax at this part. The small12 Intervening space near the process behind, is filled up with other muscles; for, the scalenus posticus rests here on the two lower heads of the levator scapula;, and, a little higher, on the splenius, with which it intermixes at the transverse pro- cesses. The anterior margin of the levator joins the posterior of the scalenus, and the splenius is deeper between them. The upper origin, or tooth, of the serratus major arises from the first rib just beside the scalenus, and about an inch and a half from the transverse process. It must therefore be con- nected or intermixed with the scalenus posticus. It goes to be inserted, like the rest of the muscle, into the scapula, but this portion goes to it within the fore part of the levator, with which it is connected. Hence, these three muscles are so intermixed at this part, that the levator might be supposed to be implanted also into the rib, and the scalenus posticus might be thought to have a connexion with the scapula. By cleaning the cellular and fascial substance with the knife, we can separate the muscles. The anterior or inner mai’gin of the scalenus posticus is neaidy in a line with the outer one of the anticus, but a little overlapped by it. The outermost of the cervical nerves also marks the boundary of the margin of the anticus. The posterior margin, begins at the outer and back part of the second rib, and is prolonged almost straight up by the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The middle of that part of the shining tendinous origin from the first rib, which has been called the scalenus medius, is about an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle. The levator scapulae arises from the transverse processes of the four uppermost cervical vertebrae, behind the digitations of the scalenus posticus, and before those of the splenius colli. Emerging from the margin of the splenius, it becomes covered, above, by the sterno-mastoideus, and, farther down, by the trapezius. If we clear away the substance between these two muscles, we shall see, at the upper part, the margin of the splenius covei'ing or intermixing with the origin of the levator, whilst, presently, that muscle winds backwaixl and downward quite on the surface of the splenius, and a very little of it may be seen between the trapezius and sterno-mastoideus.IS If, after removing these superficial muscles, the finger be run from the internal jugular vein backward, it will pass, succes- sively, over the scalenus anticus, the outermost of the axillary nerves, the scalenus posticus, the levator scapulas, and, lastly, on the splenius capitis. The posterior margin of the levator is not perpendicular, but somewhat oblique, and corresponds, so far down as the scapula, to a line drawn from the end of the atlas, or back of the mastoid process, to the spine of the second, or sometimes, from being less oblique, the fourth dorsal vertebra. This will pass along the back, at the dis- tance of an inch and a quarter out from the spine of the first dorsal vertebra. It does not indeed extend so far as this line maybe drawn, for it meets the rho'mboideus at an angle, joins it, or even slips a little under its margin, to which it becomes united by firm cellular substance. It then winds forward with it to the scapula, and is inserted, for an inch and a quarter, along the upper, and an inch and a half down the posterior costa. The two muscles adhere for the space of two inches and a half, and, above this junction, the levator is connected at its posterior margin Avith the splenius. An expansion of firm aponeurosis goes down over the splenius to the scapula, and can also be traced from the spines of the vertebrae under the rhomboideus to that bone, as a continuous sheet. It goes under the levator at the angle of the scapula, adheres to its under surface, and to the adjacent parts on the ribs, connect- ing the levator with the upper head of the serratus anticus, and therefore the levator often seems to be inserted into the rib as well as the scapula. The inferior head, and partly the next one, of the levator, rests on the scalenus posticus as it is arising from the rib, and between these two, very low, we find, interposed or intermingling, the upper head of the serratus, all the three muscles being connected. The apon- eurosis, already noticed, is reflected over the attachment of the serratus, at the posterior costa of the scapula, and goes down under the latissimus dorsi, and thus we see, from the existence of the aponeurosis, and the firm connexion of the muscles, that nothing can pass from the axilla, or from beneath the scapvila, toward the spine, and vice versa^ and we14 shall afterwards see that it is difficidt to form a communication between the axilla and the supra-acromial or supra-clavicular space. In making this dissection, it cannot fail to be observed that the outermost layer of muscles, or the trapezius, forms a sheet comparatively loosely connected to the parts below. Wlien a tumour forms under this, it must continue bound down by it, and can find no way of escape otherwise than by produc- ing absorption of the muscle, or protruding between it and the sterno-mastoid. It is more apt to grow and extend under the muscle, and assume a flattened shape, but it is by no means necessary that it should be moveable, for it may form intimate adhesions to the deep fascia, and become inseparably connected with the muscles it covers. Glands may also swell amidst the deeper muscles, or tumours form there. These are more formidable, for they are sure to interest the muscles and produce adhesions and contractions, as well as painful sensations from pressing on the nerves. Many cases of stiff or wry neck, arise from deep glandular swellings, which it requires some attention to discover. Mere inflammation of the deep muscles themselves may produce this, and implicate the nerves which traverse them. Exposure to cold, a sudden motion of the neck, a blow, a swelled gland from absorption of matter, &c. may produce very tedious and painful stiffness, and, in many cases, from the involvement of branches of the spinal nerves, the medulla spinalis, or oblongata, come to suffer, and headach, vertigo, intolerance of light, &c. with affections of more distant parts, may be produced. Acute inflammation of some of these deep-seated glands, although apparently not a formidable disease, may prove rapidly fatal by involving either the jugular vein, or the nerves, in the inflammation, the result of which may be fatal coma. Encysted tumours are not rare in the region of the trapezius, and are always most easily managed when they are exterior to it. We must endeavour to decide their situation by attending to the effect of the contraction or relaxation of the muscle on them, their apt)arent depth, and their mobility. A very move- able tumour, which feels quite superficial, is clearly external15 lo the muscle; but if it feel thickly covered, be slightly moveable when the muscle is relaxed, but fixed when it is. put on the stretch, it is most likely below it. Acute abscess may, in consequence of bruises or injuries, take place below the trapezius, but these are rare. Even chronic abscesses are not common. It is of importance to let out the matter as soon as it is detected, for a moment’s consideration will show that extensive detachment of the muscle must be the conse- quence of delay. The matter may indeed point between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, but seldom before much mischief be done, perhaps the muscle detached down to the latissimus dorsi. It cannot easily raise up the scapula, for the sub-scapular region cannot, without destruction of parts, be reached from this quarter. Matter can only get into the axilla, or under the pectoral muscle, by working its way along the vessels and nerves. When pus is formed under the deep layer of muscles, it is often dependant on the state of the vertebrae, but, even if it should not, it is more likely to tend toward the intervertebral space than outwardly, and in either case we soon have manifestation of the effects of pressure on, or disease of the spinal cord. This kind of disease, however, is more frequently met with in front and under the fascia longitudinalis, than behind; and had it not been to avoid repe- tition, I might have noticed it in describing that covering. It may succeed to a disease of the bones, but may also origin- ate in the soft parts as a chronic abscess; and the matter may, with or without disease of the bone, find its way into the spinal canal, either between the atlas and dentata, or lower. The symptoms may appear and proceed without any visible mechanical change, but sometimes, when the patient com- plains of fulness in the throat, or difficulty in swallowing or breathing, a tumour, on depressing the tongue, may be discovered behind the pharynx, evidently containing matter. The pulse at first is sometimes accelerated, sometimes not; but if the spinal cord, instead of being irritated or excited, become compressed or torpid, the pulse is slow, and a sen- sation of great weight, or aching pain, like rheumatism, IS felt in the muscles of the neck and shoulder. Then16 N the neck becomes paralytic, and soon the whole body is ' powerless. The breathing becomes slow and difficult, the heart beats perhaps not above thirty times in a minute, the urine is retained, and in a few days, sometimes in twenty-four hours, after these alarming symptoms have appeared, the patient dies. In most of the cases I have seen, there has been neither coma nor convulsion, the mind has remained intelligent till the last, and death seems to have been produced directly by the lungs and heart having no longer the power to per- form their functions. If the abscess be early discovered behind the pharynx, it ought to be instantly opened. Be it what it may, no harm can arise from the puncture, nor any good from delay. It will also be useful to apply caustic immediately to the nape of the neck, so as to establish an issue there. Should local tenderness, with any degree of fever, precede this, cupping, or the application of leeches, should be premised. Purgatives should be given, and if the excitement be considerable, the lancet should be used, but not pushed too far. Encysted tumours, exterior to the longi- tudinal fascia, or which do not involve it, are seldom, if evei’, productive of the effects I have described. The remaining muscles require a recollection of the carti- lages connected with the tongue and trachea. The os hyoides is the highest portion of the moveable apparatus of the throat. Wlien the jaw blade is horizontal, its upper margin is on a line with the chin, or at the utmost never above a quarter of an inch lower. The front of its body is situated considerably behind the chin, but even in adults the distance is variable. In some it is not much more than an inch and a half back from the front of the chin, in others it is an inch more. Its posterior extremity or horn extends backward very nearly to the line of the angle of the jaw, or at least to half an inch of the peak of the angle. The body is about three-eighths of an inch in height. From- the front of the body to tlie end of the horn is an inch and three quarters, and the distance is the same between the outer surflice of the extremities of the tw^o horns behind. It is connected to the head by what is called17 the ligament of the angle of the jaw, which is continuous with an expansion from the styloid processes. Thisligament, or rather duplicature of fiiscia, is inserted into the appendices of the bone. The thyroid cartilage is just below the os hyoides, and the two are connected, not only by intervening muscles, but a distinct and firm membrane, the hyo-thyroid membrane. It is strength- ened at the sides by a ligamentous border, extending from the horn of the one bone to that of the other, and it is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the larynx. The hyo-thyroid space varies according to the contraction of the muscles, but it is usually from a quarter to three-eighths of an inch broad. When the muscles are removed, and the os hyoides raised from the thyroid cartilage as far as the border of the membrane or hyo-thyroid ligament will allow, that liga- ment is half an inch long. The mside of the thyro-hyoideus muscle is also lined by a thin fascia, which extends from the thyi-oid cartilage to the os hyoides. It is connected by cel- lular substance loosely to the membrane below, or, perhaps I might rather say, that a layer from the hyo-thyroid membrane is reflected along the inner surface of the muscle, so that when it is raised along with the muscle, there is an appear- ance as if a sac had existed, and this really seems in some instances to be the case: and when it is so, the sacs on each side do not communicate in front. In this, or under the lining of the muscle, and on the hyo-thyroid membrane, a small gland, the hyo-thyroid gland, about the size of a canary seed, is sometimes, but not uniformly, met with. Tlie laryngeal nerve passes under the membrane, and the gland lies on its continuation, but with the hyo-thyroid membrane interposed. We shall presently notice the effects produced by swelling of the hyo-thyroid gland. The thyroid cartilage has a chink or fossa in front, at the upper part, which necessarily renders the hyo-thyroid space deeper than at the sides, as well as irregular in its shape. It also diminishes the length or height of the cartilage there. In an adult it is about five-eighths of an inch high, sometimes a little more, whilst at the side it is an inch, or an inch and an eighth. The breadth of each side of the carti- lage, from the median line to the posterior margin, is about18 an inch and a half, and the distance, externally, between the opposite sides behind, varies from an inch and a half, to an inch and three quarters. The margin is prolonged upward, so as to form a slightly curved stalk or horn, about half an inch long, which is tied to the end of the horn of the os hyoides by the ligamentous border of the hyo-thyroid membrane, which is so round as to be called the hyo-thyroid ligament. The poste- rior margin of the cartilage is nearly on a line with the ante- rior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, but rather a little deeper. The cricoid cartilage is much shallower before than behind; and, therefore, it mounts up within the sides of the thyroid cartilage which defends the glottis, which is supported by the cricoid cartilage. It is from five-eighths, to three quar- ters, of an inch high behind, but only about a quarter, or at most three-eighths, in front. The antero-posterior diameter is an inch, and its lateral extent is fully that. In males, the internal diameter is about five-eighths of an inch, and it is nearly circular. In females, the diameter is less; and in them the antero-posterior diameter, internally, just below the rima, may be only nine-sixteenths of an inch, and the lateral only half an inch. The under margin of the cricoid is nearly on a line with the extremity of the under horn of the thyroid carti- lage. The upper margin, behind, is on a line nearly midway between the extremity of the upper and under horns, which will, at the front, correspond to a point about a quarter of an inch above the upper margin of the crico-thyroid space. The crico-thyroid space is filled up by a strong membrane, but is not, from the shape of the cartilages, regular. It is tolerably straight above, but below it is more convex. It is in length, from side to side, from three quarters of an inch to an inch. Its height in front, when stretched, is about three-eighths of an inch, but it graduiiUy diminishes toward the sides. When relaxed, it is only a quarter of an inch.. An opening made here enters the larynx at its termination, and before the com- mencement of the trachea. It is quite below the glottis and its dependancies. Hence it affords a free transmission of air in those cases where the vocal apparatus is diseased or thick- ened, or in all cases where the impediment to respiration is19 above the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and it is , mucli more easily effected than tracheotomy. The laryngeal apparatus is contained within the thyroid cartilage, for the ar}'tenoid cartilages rise little above its margin. If we slit up the thjToid cartilage in front, we then expose the glottis and its connexions, which are resting on, and partly contained within, the back part of the cricoid cartilage. An wound, then, above the margin of the thyroid cartilage, can only graze the arytenoid cartilages, unless the instrument be directed obliquely downward. Tlie trachea commences at the under margin of the cricoid cartilage, and descends for about four inches, before it divides, behind the arch of the aorta, into the two bronchi. Its com- position is peculiar and important. The anterior two-thirds, and the posterior third of the circumference, are different. The first consists of segments of cartilaginous rings, connected by strong fibrous membrane, which seems to split, and send a thin layer over each surface of the cartilages. The fibres run longitudinally. The second consists of transverse fibres, which are considered to be muscular, aud which are covered by the longitudinal fibrous membrane common to the whole circumference. The trachea is not circular, but somewhat like a horse-shoe, being flattened behind. The distance between the two ends of the cartilage is from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch. Tlie lateral diameter of the tube exter- nally is from three quarters of an inch to fully an inch, the antero-posterior diameter an eighth less. The internal diameter laterally, is from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch. The cartilaginous bands or rims are about an eighth of an inch broad, and in the relaxed state are almost in contact, but they can be stretched nearly an eighth of an inch from one another. The inner surface is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continued from the larynx down along the bronchi. Between the fibrous or ligamentous coat and the muscular coat behind, are minute secreting glands, so numerous as to form a conti- nuous coat. They send their small ducts through the mus- cular coat, and open on the inner surface of the mucous mem- biane. In the rest of the circumference, they are chiefly20 clusteretl between the cartilages. If we slit the trachea, we see many small vessels forming a plexus between the rings, and detaching branches, upward and downward on the inner surface of the cartilages. These bleed freely when the trachea is cut, and this should be remembered in performing tracheotomy. We have only to take care that the blood gets easily out, for the bleeding soon stops. We see no glands till the mucous membrane be carefully removed, and then, with a glass, they may be observed, or they may be seen behind on removing the ligamentous coat. These glands are of great importance, and are often inflamed primarily or secondarily. They participate in the acute inflammation of lai'yngitis and croup; they are the seat of very obstinate chronic inflamma- tion, and muco-purulent discharge, in bi'onchitis and in pul- monary affection; independent of the effect of inflammation, or excitation, propagated upward, they, from excitation of the recurrent and upper laryngeal nerves, by the state of the eighth pair, are often powerfully affected. In many cases of decided pulmonary consumption, the patient refers the seat of irritation, causing cough, to the windpipe, just above the sternum. The trachea, in its descent along the throat, is connected to the neighbouring parts, not merely by cellular substance, but by a reflection of fascia, which may be traced both from the sides of the neck, and from the inside of the sterno-thyroid muscle at the sternum. If we divide the expansion of fascia going off* from the side of the trachea to that of the oesophagus, we can easily separate the cellular attachment of these two tubes. But the trachea is so elastic, and also so moveable, that when exposed, it is difficult to open it, if the instrument be not very sharp. This should be attended to in performing tracheotomy. The trachea in the adult passes down behind the sternum, at a distance of about five-eighths of an inch behind the inner surface of the top of that bone, or an inch and a half from the surface of the skin, in the average condition of fatness. * The thyroid gland is intimately connected Avith the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, generally, but not always, connected in front by a transverse portion or strip of gland. This varies in breadth from barely half, to abovethree quarters of, an inch. This middle portion rests on the very top of the trachea, and reaches to about the second ring. It adheres to the trachea by very dense cellular substance. Of the great lobe, in some instances, only a little portion at the side and under part of the thyroid cartilage, rests on that. But generally, at least in the female, it extends upwards on the side of the cartilage to the root of the upper horn, resting partly on the hyo-thyroideus muscle, and downward on the trachea to about three quarters of an inch below the cricoid cartilage. It does not stretch up on the mere surface of the sides of the thyroid cartilage, but is partly folded over the lateral margin; but the tracheal portion merely goes down by the side of that tube, and does not in any degree wind behind it. The breadth of the lobe, measured from the front to the mere margin where it begins to turn over, is three quarters of an inch; but if we pull forward the gland, and measure to its side, it is about an inch and an eighth. The length of the gland varies from an inch and a half to above two inches. The direction of the lobe is obliquely backward and upward; so that, whilst the anterior margin is only three, or rarely more than five-eighths of an inch, back from the front of the cricoid cartilage, it is an inch and a quarter back from the front of the thyroid cartilage. We should, therefore, find three quarters of an inch of the crico- thyroid membrane, measured laterally, uncovered by the gland, or we might make a p*ansverse cut there to that extent, with- out injuring it. The gland is thickest at its lower part, being there five-eighths of an inch; but at the side, on the thyroid cartilage, it is only three-eighths thick. The distance from the under margin of the front, or cross slip of gland, to the sternum; or, in other words, the length of that portion of trachea which could be exposed in front without cutting the gland, varies according to the sex, and length of the neck. In short-necked females and males, it may not be much more than half an inch, but more frequently it is fully an inch. In females with long and slender necks, it may be two inches. The distance is increased by stretching back the head at least half an inch. The gland becomes connected with the recur-22 rent nerve at its inferior extremity. It is every where covered by muscles, as we shall presently see. In the foetus and child, the lower part of the trachea is covered by another gland prolonged from the mediastinum within the sternum. This is the thymus, which also consists of two lobes, with projections called horns, which extend as high as the thyroid gland. Within the sternum, it lies between it, and the arch of the aorta with its branches, but particularly the left subclavian vein. It at one time is so large, compared to the contracted lungs, that it equals the bulk of one of them; but it does not aftei’wards retain the proportion. It does not, however, remain stationary, but continues to grow a little for the first year after birth, and sometimes rather increases than diminishes during the second. In a child of a year old, it extends up to half an inch above the sternum. It presently begins to waste, and fastest in a direction from below upward. In the course of ten or twelve years, it is completely absorbed, and its situation occupied by cellular substance and fat. In scrofulous children it may swell, and is often combined with a similar affection of the mesenteric glands. In older children, it may swell so much as to disturb the functions of the trachea and circidation, and yet not so much as to be easily felt through the fascia and muscular covering. In extreme cases, oftener met with in infancy than afterwards, both the breathing and swallowing may be affected, and the tumour may be felt. Iodine should be tried, and small blisters may be applied; but any operation for extirpating the gland would probably be fatal, either by the production of thoracic inflammation, or the lodgment of pus in the mediastinum. In making our diag- nosis, it must be remembered, that small lymphatic glands lie at the lower part of the neck, much in the situation which would be occupied by an enlarged thymus gland. A^Tien these swell, they may produce difficulty in breathing, &c.; but they seldom do so, as they enlarge upwardly and out- wardly. They are at first moveable and rounded. Both they and the enlarged thymus may receive communicated motion from the great arteries. The distance between the top of the sternum and the ujiper23 margin of the os liyoides, the head not being bent back, but the jaw blade being horizontal, must vary according to the length of the neck, and is generally greater in the female than the male. In the former it is usually about four inches and three quarters, sometimes above five inches. In a male of ordinary size, about three inches and seven-eighths, some- times only three inches and a half. From the sternum to the fossa, in the front of the thyroid cartilage, is in the female often four inches and a quarter; but if the neck be short, it may be little more than three inches and a half. In the male three inches and a quarter, but sometimes under three inches. To the top of the side of the cartilage is about half an inch more. To the under margin of the cartilage is two inches and three quarters. From the sternum to the top of the cricoid cartilage, is in the female full three inches; to the under margin, about two inches and three quarters. This is, of course, the extent of the trachea from the cartilage to the sternum, but in some females it is three inches, in others who are smaller and have the neck shorter, it is not more than two inches, and in short necked males only one. All these distances must vary accord- ing to the length of the neck; but we can, when it is desirable, ascertain, unless the parts be much swollen, the exact distance in any individual. On examining the insulated larynx and base of the tongue, we see the top of the air-passage to be defended behind by two moveable cartilages, which, from the obliquity of the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage, to which they are articulated, are directed forward as well as upward. This gives a sloping appearance to the back part of the larynx, and the length of this part, from the top of the arytenoid to the bottom of the cricoid cartilage, is above an inch and a half. In the dead or quiescent state, the point of the arytenoid cartilage does not mount more than an eighth of an inch above the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, and extends to three-eighths of an inch forward from the back of the cartilage, at the root of its upper horn. It is about three-eighths of an inch be- hind the posterior surface of the epiglottis, and tlie points of the opposite cartilages are about the same distance from one24 another. The epiglottis is placed in front, and from its sides the mucous membrane passes olf to the arytenoid cartilage, forming a duplicature so distinct, as to seem to contain a band, although none exist. This duplicature also passes down on the inside of the horn of the os hyoides, that of the thyroid cartilage, and a part of the inner surface of that cartilage, so as to form a scaphoid fossa on each side. This aryteno-epiglottic fossa is little less than an inch deep, measured from the margin of the duplicature, and it extends half an inch forward from the side of the peak of the arytenoid cartilage. Any tumour formed here, or any foreign body fixed here, as, for instance, a fish-bone, must not only impair respiration, and the voice, but also deglutition. In the act of swallowing, the arytenoid carti- lages are laid a little forward, and brought closer together by the muscles, all of which are flexors or constrictors, excepting the crico-arytenoideus posticus, which dilates. If they be brought very much forward, they can cover pretty completely the rima glottidis or air-passage. But this is rendered more secure by the epiglottis folding back over them, like a valve or lid. If these three substances be destroyed, or if, by inflam- mation or change of structure, they cannot be folded down, part of the morsel which is swallowed, must find its way into the glottis. But so long as the arytenoid cartilages are free, and can do their duty, they may, in a great measure, compen- sate for the loss of most of the epiglottis. The epiglottis, however, cannot be much inflamed without, by the medium of the mucous membrane, communicating a similar state to the arytenoid cartilage. In an ordinary examination of the fauces, the epiglottis is not seen if it be healthy, but if it be swollen and inflamed, then, by depressing the tongue, its upper part may be seen of a deep red colour. The fauces are not neces- sarily inflamed, for the inflammation may be more confined to the membrane passing to the larynx. But that membrane may also be inflamed by communication from the tonsils, without involving the epiglottis. In epiglottitis, there is pain at the root of the tongue, and generally difficulty of swallow- ing, so that, often, before any fluid can get down into tlie larynx, an instinctive effort is made to bolt, or cough, the wholeout of the mouth. From the lower end of the epiglottis, the pei-pendicular or thyroid ligament, and the epiglottic gland, participating, as well as from affection of the arytenoid mem- brane, the respiration is difficult, and fatal laryngitis may be the result. Venesection, to be useful, must be prompt and liberal, and followed by leeches to the external fauces, at the same time that the bowels are opened. Should these means fail, bhsters may be applied, but I have no great confidence in their efficacy. When the disease is produced by acrid sub- stances, as hartshorn, or by swallowing boiling water, the same treatment is to be pursued, but we dare not bleed so freely; and I fear that bhsters should only increase the external swelling, and add to the general distress. A little thick cream, idone, or mixed with linseed tea, may be allowed to pass over slowly. Wlien the difficulty of breathing is extreme, laryngo- tomyis the only remaining resource, for the parts coidd scarcely bear the introduction of a tube from the nostril. The epiglottis, from the part where it is connected to the tongue by the reflection of the mucous membrane, measures one inch to its apex, and is an inch broad at its base. It sends a peak down below the os hyoides, ending m ligament, which is inserted into tlie notch of the thyroid cartilage. If we cut the mucous membrane at the tongue, we also see the epiglottis to be connected along its whole breadth to the os hyoides, by a dense cellular, or fibrous attachment. If we cut m the hyo-thyroid space, either the mucous membrane within, or the hyo-thyroid membrane on the outside, and examine what is between them, we find, at the side of the epiglottis, a few muscular fibres, the thyreo-epiglottideus; whilst, at the front, there is between the hyo-thyroid membrane, and the descending peak of the epiglottis, and its perpendicular ligament, and also a little to each side of that, a dense spongy looking substance, called the epiglottic gland. This tissue may swell, and must then render the parts there tense, and every motion uneasy. If the swelling be great, respiration is affected. I have noticed the duplicature which extends from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilage, and the aryteno-epiglot- tidean fossa, which it forms. I next may observe, that2G there is a cavity at the top of the larynx itself, bounded before by the lower part of the epiglottis, overhung behind by the arytenoid cartilage, and which may be closed below by pressing the rima glottidis together, so as to form an entire floor to it. This may properly be called the vestibule of the glottis, and requires to be understood. In the quiescent state of the cartilages, such as we see after death, the mouth of this has an irregular, or somewhat of an elliptical shape, the long diameter being lateral, whilst a chink extends behind between the arytenoid cartilages to the extent of three-eighths of an inch. This varies in diameter, for the cartilages can be brought quite in contact by their muscles; but by separating them, it is converted into a rounded opening, which would admit a tube a quarter of an inch in diameter. Looking down under the cartilages at the vestibule, we see two bands going off from the side of the thyroid notch, and connected with the epiglottic ligament; one of these goes backward, and out- ward to the inside of the ai'ytenoid cartilage on the right, and the other on the left side. These two bands are the margins of a duplicature of the mucous membrane, for there is no distinct ligamentous substance. They do not meet in front at an acute angle, but seem rather to pass off from the sides of the epiglottic ligament, so that they are three-six- teenths of an inch separate in front, and three-eighths behind. The antero-posterior diameter of this opening is from five to seven-eighths of an inch, according to the sex and size. About three-sixteenths of an inch lower are two other duplicatures, one on each side, containing distinctly a cord, called the liga- mentum thyreo-arytenoideum. They go off from an eighth to three-sixteenths of an inch below the thyroid notch, to the arytenoid cartilage; they almost meet at the front; but be- hind they are, in the dead state, a quarter of an inch separate. They can be brought in contact. They do not extend to the posterior margin of the cricoid cartilage. Between these two bands, called the vocal cords, is, on each side, a sacculus laryngis. Its length is about three quarters ol an inch, its breadth varies with the stretching of the coi'ds, and its depth is nearly a quarter of an inch. This rima can be shut by27 pressing the arytenoids together. It contracts a little and dilates as the arytenoid cartilages approach towards, or recede from, each other, in the act of expiration and inspix'ation. But this alternate contraction and dilatation of these parts, though useful, is not essential to respiration, for it may go freely on without the slightest wheezing although the parts be quiescent, but, in that case, it is feebly performed. This we may ascer- tain by exposing the top of the larynx in the rabbit. It may, in certain cases, for instance, with a view to restore respiration, be desirable to introduce a tube into the larynx. The tube should be made of elastic gum, and ought not to be above a quarter of an inch in diameter. It is to be introduced by the nostril, and whenever it is seen descending behind the velum, it is to be guided with the finger, or hooked probe, or by forceps, down close be- hind the epiglottis, that is, behind the root of the tongue. If drawn too far forward, it gets before the epiglottis into the fossa which is by the side of the frenum. If directed too far back, it gets on the surface of the arytenoid carti- lage, and glides down into the pharynx. It should pass at the points of the cartilages. If any resistance be now felt, it should be directed a very little backward, as the rima glottidis is wider behind than before; air is to be blown in gently, and in no great quantity, for it is impossible, in suspended animation, by any aid, to amplify the thorax to the same degree as if the diaphragm and intercostal muscles acted properly. By not attending to this, the bronchia may be ruptured. So far as I can judge from observations made in the course of experiments, I would say, that after an instru- ment has passed the rima, no excitation is given. If the animal be languid, I have not found any cough or movement to be produced by inserting a tube into the larynx, even when it first touphed the arytenoid cartilage or rima; and this is con- firmed by a case related by Desault, where the tube, by mistake, was introduced into the larynx instead of the pharynx, and the patient had nearly got his bronchia injected with soup. When the larynx does not do its duty, there is more painful sense of suffocation than when the lungs are prevented28 from expanding, for in ihe foi’mer case, tlie air is not allowed to enter freely into the rarefied bronchial cells. Many die easily when a vessel gives way in the lungs, for the blood, in the motion of inspiration, fills the ramifications as the air does, and, with little sensation, the patient dies insensible. The struggle, if there be one, is where blood prevents air from entering at the larynx, and excites it to spasmodic action. Other painful sensations are no doubt produced by pressure on the lungs, irregular action of the heart, &c., but they are not exactly the same with that arising from suffocation, which seems to proceed from the rarefaction of the air in the bronchia during an inefficient effort to inspire. If the tubes can be filled with any thing whatever, be it blood or carbonic acid, or any other fluid, provided the larynx be not irritated, it would appear that the sensation is not acute. An opening made in the crico-th^rroid membrane, if close by the under margin of the thyroid cartilage, leads into that part of the air tube which is below the glottis, and above the cricoid cavity. It is half an inch below the inferior band. The cricoid cavity is very nearly circular, and is five-eighths of an inch in diameter. The trachea within is about the same. A needle pushed in at the end of the thyroid notch will touch the superior band and insertion of the epiglottis. If pushed in about three-sixteenths of an inch lower, it touches the lower band. These circumstances should be attended to in wounds, and also in applying issues in phthisis laryngea. If the thyroid cartilage be slit up in front to its notch, we expose the part below the cords; and if we open up the division, we see, on each side of the opening, the sacculus, with the upper and under cords, apparently, connected to the cartilage, near where it has been slit. If, now, we separate the one side of the cartilage behind, from its connexion with the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages, and remove it, the cords are seen loose, and the sacculus is lost. The greatest measurements I have given apply to the adult male, but the parts vary according to the age and sex. For eight or nine years before puberty there is very little change, so that in the male, just before that period, the rima glot-29 tidis, in both its diameters, is just about one-half of what it is a few months afterwards. In the female, accordiiifr to Riche- rand, it only increases two-fifths, so that the structure is more like that of the child. Another circumstance to be attended to, is, that the whole laryngeal cartilages enlarge at puberty, and in a direction downward, so that the cricoid cartilage approaches proportionally nearer to the sternum, and the supersternal portion of trachea diminishes in length. This is so much the case, that, although the whole neck be longer in the adult than in the child of two years old, yet the length of this part of the trachea is nearly the same in both. There is, however, a great difference in the growth of the cartilages in different childi'en, some having them as large at the age of twelve months, as others at the end of three years. It is also evident, that the relative distances of the cartilages must vary according as the head is level or bent back. Before puberty, as has been pointed out by my brother, the space below the cricoid cartilage is increased more than that above it, by stretching back the neck, whilst, after that, the space between the chin and thyroid cartilage is most elongated; but, even in the adult, the space between the sternum and thyroid cartilage, may be increased about seven-tenths of an inch, by stretching back the neck. The jaw of the adult also extends farther back, and the rising of the alveolar processes requires an elongation of the ramus, so that the jaw must descend a little. In childhood, the os hyoides is most promi- nent, whilst in the adult the thyroid cartilage projects more. The smaller size of the larynx, in infancy, has been supposed to explain why children were peculiarly liable to croup, but it is evident that the frequency of the disease must depend on a very different cause. The difficulty of breathing, doubt- less, may be increased by the exudation of fibrin, but it also arises from the mere inflammation. The mucous coat is very red, a little thicker, more pulpy, or fleshy looking, like dense jelly, and death may take place^ without any effusion of lymph. The membranous duplicatures about the larynx are thick- ened, and the whole apparatus impaired in its action. Death would often take place from the sympathetic effects on the30 system, as in enteritis, even if the breathing were not much obstructed, but the difficult respii'ation adds greatly to the danger, and to the rapidity of the progress. Laryngitis is a fi*equent disease at all periods of life, and when acute, it is either speedily cured by the decided and prompt use of means for checking inflammation, or it rapidly proves Fatal. It very often, especially in infancy, arises from the state of the origins of the laryngeal nerves, induced directly or indirectly. In such cases, it often assumes, at first, the appearance of what is called spasmodic croup; but if not checked, it soon ends in inflammation. Even when checked, the child is not to be neglected, for cephalic disease is to be dreaded. Adults may have it produced by similar causes, but more frequently, in them, it is occasioned by exposure to cold. They are, however, more liable to that insidious form which assumes the chronic type. The symptoms vary in intensity and number, according to the extent and acuteness of the disease, but they are too well known to require a minute description here. The peculiar sound of the cough, the hoarseness, or loss of voice, the scanty expectoration, the wheezing, with occasional fits of suffocation, perhaps of chok- ing, or coughing, in attempting to swallow, the emaciation, and comparatively late accession of hectic, mark the com- plaint, and very often the patient refers the seat of the dis- ease, from his sensation, to its actual place in the top of the throat. It is more or less rapidly fatal according to the urgency of the symptoms, and the complications which exist, for often the lungs become affected, and, not unfrequently, I believe, it is symptomatic of disease, previously existing in the chest. The extent of mischief is variable. Sometimes there is mere inflammation and suppuration of the mucous membrane, sometimes disease or death of the cartilages, or they may be partially detached and lodged in an abscess at the side of the larynx, or the epiglottis may be partially destroyed, or there may be but slight disease in the larynx, the more immediate' cause of death being in the chest. Should this disease be seated high, for instance, about the arytenoid carti- lages, some benefit may be derived from touching the parts31 witli solution of nitrate of silver, by means of a sponge attached to a curved probe. If lower, we can only apply any thing to the parts in the form of vapour, by inhalation, but we must chiefly depend on an issue over the part, and the spot may be decided by the minute description I have given. In general, it is most useful on the hyo-thyroid and upper part of the thyroid districts, and should extend quite from one side of the thyroid cartilage to the other. If it do good, it does it soon, and it is useless to continue it long. In some cases, this disease is complicated with a relaxation of the uvula, which titilates the upper part of the larynx, and excites cough. It is both easy and safe to cut a little bit off the end of the uvula, but this is seldom necessary, and if there be disease in the larynx, it is only a palliative. The best internal medicines are those which improve the general health, which we should carefully attend to. Opiates are useful in allaying cough. Wlien the fits of suffocation are frequent and severe, or the difficulty of breathing is perma- nent, it is expedient to make an opening in the crico-thyroid membrane, or in the trachea, but this is only of temporary • advantage, and can only be proposed with a view to prolong life for a short time. It may be thought, that slitting up the thyroid cartilage would permit us to remove portions of the diseased parts, and, perhaps, make salutary applications to the rest. But, setting aside the consequences of so extensive exposure of a delicate part, it is to be remembered, that even if dead or diseased portions of cartilage could be extracted, the mucous membrane is in a very diseased state, and cannot be speedily restored to health. Even when we can make applications directly to a mucous membrane, we cannot readily make it healthy. We see this in the urethra, pha- rynx, &c. Further, the disease is seldom long confined to the larynx, but the parts farther down, or the lungs them- selves, are more or less affected. It is not likely, then, that this radical attempt shall be often made. In acute attacks of laryngitis, where we have simply to contend with a limited inflammation, and where the lungs are sound, as in many32 cases happens, both in infancy and adult age, it comes to be a question wliether life may not be preserved by the opera- tion. Were the sole danger mechanical, we could easily give a most decided and unqualified opinion. But the danger does not proceed merely from the difficulty of breathing. The inflamed part is both delicate and important, and when inflamed, the system rapidly suffers, as in enteritis, &c. It is only in those cases where we believe, that could we prevent the additional, and no doubt perilous, evil of obstructed respi- ration, we might still be able to check the inflammation, and save the constitution, that we can propose an operation. It is not enough to say the patient must die if the operation be not performed, but we must be able to say that the operation, by relieving the breathing, shall so prolong life as to give a reasonable chance of the inflammation subsiding before the system be worn out. It is, indeed, a most important consider- ation, and, in the mere view that the system can better stand one than two evils, we should at once decide, in all cases not already moribund. But it is inflammation which is the source of danger, and the cause of the difficulty of breathing, for the lymphatic, or false membrane, as it is called, which was supposed to contract the passage, is not essential to the disease, and often does not exist. Now, the very operation tends to produce inflammation, and increase the original evil. The operation, then, must be limited in its benefits, and, in point of fact, has seldom succeeded. The cases most demand- ing it, and most likely to be benefited by it, are those where the system has not suffered greatly from the local inflamma- tion, the fever is not excessive, the breathing is not so perma- nently affected, but the great and urgent danger is from repeated and severe paroxysms of choking, whilst, in the intervals, the respiration is tolerably easy. These paroxysms are the prominent symptoms, and we dread, that, if the patient do not expire in one of them, they shall, at least, rapi^y exhaust the remaining strength. In that form of croup which I have elsewhere described, as attendant on aphthous sore tliroat, tlie operation has also been proposed, and has even33 succeeded, but the danger is great, and we must, to justify it, liave the paroxysms severe, whilst other symptoms are com- paratively mild, or at least not discouraging. In fatal cases of common croup, we often find little inflam- mation of the trachea or lungs. The membrane of the for- mer indeed is a little redder than usual, and slightly smeared with muco-purulent fluid. The latter are darker, and perhaps in some places firmer than usual, and the bronchi contain brownish mucus. But the main disease is often apparently confined to the very top of the larynx, the membrane of the glottis and vestibule being red, thickened, and covered with muco-pus, which also sometimes fills and obliterates the sacculi. The obstruction evidently proceeds from swelling of the membrane, whereby all the apertures already described are diminished in size. Now, here it may be said, that the chief seat of the disease being high, and the trachea and lungs not affected to a degree, which of itself should be fatal, we ought to expect benefit from the operation. But we must not lose sight of the fact stated in the preceding page, that the system sympathizes much with the local disease, and therefore the temporary relief in breathing may not save the patient. We have not, yet, so many cases where the operation was performed, as to enable us to decide on the merit. But of one thing: I am certain, namely, that if an operation is to be performed at all, it ought to be done much earher than usual. If bleed- ing, and the other means at fii’st employed, do not speedily arrest and mitigate the disease, it soon runs on to a stage in which we can have no rational hope of any operation being useful. Spasmodic croup, as it has been called, seems to depend rather on a loss of power of the dilators, than on spasm of the constrictors. It soon leads, however, to inflammation, and then differs little in its progress from the spasm jiist noticed. There is the same ground here, as soon as vigorous means have been fruitlessly tried for checking the disease, to consider the advantages and disadvantages of an operation. We must not, however, forget, that in many cases, this spasm depends on disease near the origin of the eighth pair of nerves. Theprincipal dilator is liberally supplied by the recurrent nerve. It is the crico-arytenoideus posticus, a large and powerful muscle. It is more than an inch long, and at the broadest part half an inch broad. It runs along the back of the cricoid, to the base of the arytenoid cartilage, but the two on opposite sides, do not meet in the middle, but leave the cartilajje bare there for more than a quarter of an inch. At the top, we see another broad muscle traversing it at right angles, on the ary- tenoid cartilages. This, the arytenoideus, is an inch long as it runs across, and about three-eighths broad. These two mus- cles, are the most decided antagonists, and both are most easily exhibited by merely removing the mucous membrane, from the back of the cricoid, and surface of the arytenoid car- tilages. Two other small muscles lie at the side, and toward the front of the latter cartilages. The crico-arytenoideus later- alis is just at the side, the thyro-arytenoideus more forward; these are supposed to act as constrictors, but in certain cir- cumstances, the last may rather dilate. Another cause which may require the operation, is a foreign body in the air passage. It may be supposed that whatever gets in may be coughed out, but this does not always happen, for the glottis contracts by the irritation of the foreign body, even if it could be brought up that length. It may, however, be impacted much low'er, in one of the ramifications of the wdndpipe, and produce cough, and other serious effects, till at last it be disengaged and discharged. In that case, it is generally found covei’ed with an incrustation. If it stick from shape, or any cause, in the larynx, it produces severe paroxysms of suffocation, whenever its position becomes unfavourable, or, if free, it may, from getting up to the larynx, produce even a fatal fit of suffocation. It has been found so lodged in the sacculus laryngis, as to obstruct respi- ration. When it is impacted or lodged above the cricoid car- tilage, it can only be mechanically and artificially removed by making an opening in the crico-thyroid membrane, and pushing it up with a probe, or by laying open the thyroid cavity, w'hich is a formidable operation. If moveable, and it rise and fall in respiration, it would appear, from the35 experiments of Favier, that it is sufficient to make an opening in the trachea, and it shall be blown out as regularly and quickly as it is put in. These, indeed, to the fullest extent, justify the performance of tracheotomy, but we are not to expect that instantly the substance shall be expelled; for, as I have found in the rabbit, it may be retained for a short time. Very soon, however, the animal coughs, and the sub- stance, a small lead shot, for instance, is thrown out on the table. A longitudinal incision is more convenient than a O transverse one, and heals better. It does not require to be kept distended, in order to let the substance out, if the external wound be so patent as to allow breathing to go on for a minute or two by the aperture in the trachea. Less danger from subsequent inflammation is to be apprehended than from the continued presence of the body. If the sub- stance be not large, laryngotomy wiU be equally effectual. It has been disputed whether laryngotomy or tracheotomy were the preferable operation. I believe, in all cases where we merely wish to admit air, the first is the best, being most easily performed. In the adult, tracheotomy requires a deep incision, and it cannot be less than two inches long. At the sternum the sterno-thyroidei when relaxed, sink three quar- ters of an inch deep from the surface of the exposed bone. The trachea here is an inch, sometimes more, from the surface of the bone. To this we must add the thickness of the skin and cellular substance. Now, although we do not, and ought not to, come so far down as the sternum, yet even higher there is a gi’eat depth, and often a consider- able bleeding; for, after separating the sterno-thyroidei and hyoidei muscles of the opposite sides from each other, and dividing the fliscia which lies below them, we come into a lax cellular substance, very vascular, and deep enough to make an extensive incision necessary, in order to see and tie the vessels. Then, without careful examination, we may divide a pretty large vein, which often ascends in front of the trachea to the tliyroid gland, and sometimes a large th}Toid artery runs, in the same direction, up from the innominata. The innominata itself sometimes rises high, and the right carotid36 is often oblique and not fairly at the side of the trachea till thi*ee quarters of an inch above the bone. We may indeed avoid many hazards and inconveniences, and find the trachea more superficial, by going nearer the cricoid cartilage; for, an inch and a half above the sternum, it is only about half an inch deep from the surface of the skin. But the front or cross portion of the thyroid gland rests on the upper part of the trachea. It may be a half, or nearly a whole inch broad, and the lobes, at the sides, extend lower. The space between the cross portion of gland and sternum varies, and generally there is abundant space for opening the trachea. I have, however, seen the gland reach to half an inch above the ster- num ; often there is only an interval of an inch in short- necked males. In females there may be fully two inches, or, if the head be bent back, half an inch more. Still, we require to go deep, and if we consider the effect of a lodgment of pus in such an wound here, and the difficulty of procuring a free passage for the air, we shall be led to inquire whether an opening in the crico-thyroid space have not greater advan- tages. The membrane is, in a subject rather fat, only about three-tenths of an inch deep, and can be easily exposed by a ' transverse incision, made in the skin, cellular substance, and fascia, in front of the neck. This exposes the crico-thyi-oid muscles, which do not meet in the middle line, but are, at the margin of the thyroid cartilage, a quarter, or sometimes half an inch separate. Near the cricoid cartilage, there is scarcely an eighth of an inch between them. The length of the space itself, may vary from three quarters of an inch to an inch, and its greatest breadth in front, when relaxed, is about a quarter; but it is less toward the sides. By dividing this freely, we may have an aperture quite equal to that of the rima. But this cannot be done without dividing part of the crico-thyroid muscle, for it is doubtful if even cutting out all the intervening membrane would make an aperture equal to the rima. The division of the muscle to such an extent as might be necessary could be attended with no apparent inconveni- ence ; but a very large branch of the superior thyroid artery often runs down to the gland, just by the anterior margin of37 these muscles, and this consequently must be divided. Were the operation performed, in such a case, it would be proper, before opening the membrane, to tie the artery. In the child, the relative distances are somewhat dilferent, and there is generally more ^)f the trachea which might be opened. At the age of three years the diameter of the trachea, externally, is about seven sixteenths, and, internally, nearly a quarter of an inch. The length of the crico-thyroid space is half an inch; but as the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage is straighter than in the adult, it may be enlarged to nearly the breadth of the under margin of the thyroid, which is three quarters. Its diameter, at the upper margin, is nearly an inch and a quarter. The breadth of the space is three six- teenths, and the distance between the crico-thyroid muscles is near a quarter. The situation of the artery is the same as in the adult. It therefore appears that there can be no greater difficulty in the child, than in the adult, in making a sufficient aperture here for respiration. Then, if we attend to the trachea, we find that the distance between the cricoid carti- lage and the sternum is an inch and seven-eighths, but if we measure from the under margin of the cross slip of gland to the sternum, it is only an inch and a half. The thymus gland at this time mounts up five-eighths of an inch above the sternum. We have, therefore, just three quarters of an inch of the trachea between the two glands, and which could be easily exposed. The upper margin of the innominata is level with the surface of the clavicle, and the carotid is not quite off the trachea for perhaps three quarters of an inch above the sternum. There seems, then, no particular ground for preferring tracheotomy in the child, more than in the adult. I know no injury that can be apprehended in either case from the division of part of the crico-thyroideus as a muscle,' for I consider its action as a dilator of the glottis to be very problematic. Before noticing the muscles wliich cover the larynx and trachea, it will be proper to mention the pharynx. This seg- ment of a muscular tube arises from the base of the skull, and IS connected with the different parts it traverses in its descents38 till it terminate in the oesophagus at the end of the cricoid car- tilage. It is divided, though not with much utility, into three portions, each covering, to a certain extent, the one which is lower. It is not a tube, for it is deficient in front, quite open or vacant at the top where it communicates with the mouth, and is in a manner bordered by the circumflexus palati; lower, it is shut up or completed into a tube by its attachment to the laryn- geal cartilages, and the mucous membrane wliich lines it. The particular origins of the different constrictors, may be learned from the ordinary works on anatomy. The connected muscle arises from, or is fixed and attached to the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, just before the inserting of the recti, from the inner plate and hook of the pterygoid process, from both jaws at the last grinder, from a band which passes between them, and gives origin to the buccinator, with which it intei- mixes, from the side of the tongue and palate, from the appendix and horn of the os hyoides and hyo-thyroid border, from the margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Hence, it is evident that the moveable parts must move in the con- traction of the constrictors, and the laryngeal cartilages are drawn up. Internally, the constrictors are lined wdth a mucous membrane, which is continued over the back part of the laryngeal cartilages, so as to complete the tube of the pharynx there, for it is only muscular at the sides and back. On shtting up the pharynx, the membrane is seen continuous all along the back of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages. If we remove this from the back of the cricoid cartilage, no red fibres are seen in the middle; but at the sides they are discovered, and are those of the crico-arytenoi- deus posticus. At one part of the upper portion a thin layer of muscular fibres is interposed between the membrane and the constrictor, namely, the palato-pharyngeus, which forms the posterior arch of the palate, as the constrictor isthmi faucium does the anterior. The constrictors are defended by many muscles; foremost are the pterygoidei, next the stylo-hyoideus, and lower the digastric; deeper we have the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus. Piessing the finger between the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, we touch the con-39 stricter superior; lower is the medius, and still lower the inferior, close on the vertebra or fascia longitudinalis. The longus colli runs up by the side of the pharj^nx, and a firm thin fascia passes off from the one to the other, so as to secure the pharynx in its place, more fully than by the mere cellular attachment, behind, to the spine. In pharyngotomy, if the tube be not fairly opened, but only the fascia, the parts may be detached to a very unnecessary and hurtful degree. The constrictor medius is in one part the most easily exposed in a dissection of the throat, for it is at once found at the extre- mity of the os hyoides; on merely removing the cervical fascia, a portion of it may be seen there, but on pressing up the digastric, more of it is exliibited. The hyo-glossus is found going up from the os hyoides to the tongue, within the mylo- hyoideus. Just behind the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus, the constrictor medius is seen, and it goes a little way within the hyo-glossus, so as to look like a deeper layer of that muscle. On this part of the constrictor, which is so easily exposed, we find, running forward, the laryngeal artery and nerve, which are connected to its surface by cellular substance. As the distance between the horns of the os hyoides is above an inch and three quarters, and that between the margin of the thyroid cartilage, about an inch and a half, it is evident, that the lateral diameter of the pharynx, in their tract, must be nearly as great, but it is less in its antero-posterior diameter when undistended. If we fill the pharynx and oesophagus with tow, without preternaturally distending them, we find that the. former, opposite the top of the thyroid cartilage, measures, in its lateral diameter externally, an inch and a half, and an inch in its antero-posterior diameter; at the cricoid carti- lage, it measures an inch both ways, and the oesophagus continues of the same extent. These parts, however, are capable of more distention, and also of change of shape as well as of relaxing. The distance of the end of the phar- ynx, where stricture is most frequent, or the low^er end of the cricoid cartilage, from the front teeth of tlie upper jaw, niust vai*y with the length of the neck. In short-necked males, Jt may be barely five inches, whilst in those who have long necks40 and deep jaws, it may be seven inches. Tlie average of four trials, gave me six inches and three-tenths. Tliese measure- ments were taken with the head erect, but if bent back, as in introducing the probang, the distance is nearly half an inch less. Five inches and three quarters is not an unusual length in that position. The distance of the cardiac orifice of the stomach from the front teeth of the upper jaw, is also variable in the adult, according to the length of the spine. It is from thirteen inches to full fifteen and a half. The tube of the stomach-pump is twenty-two inches long. The contraction of the pharynx from its structure, must be in the lateral and pos- terior parts. But as man, as well as quadrupeds, has the power of swallowing liquids contrary to the power of gravity, it is evident, that this must be, by the contraction of the fibres from above downward; and it will be found, that although the pharynx seems to rise and receive the morsel, this proceeds from the contraction of the fibres on the morsel, which must necessarily raise the cartilages; and thereby, indeed, the uncontracted part of the pharynx is drawn up over the solid or fluid; but contraction always, as the cause, precedes ele- vation. As the constrictors only form a segment of a tube, it is very rare to meet with spasmodic tightening in the pha- rynx, or with what may properly be called permanent stric- ture; when there is obstruction to the deglutition there, it is generally owing to tumours springing from the laryngeal carti- lages, or imbedded in the substance of the pharynx, or varicose . veins behind it, or polypous excrescences within it. Many deep seated glands exist, and when these swell, dysphagia may be produced, even before there be much tumour externally; but in most instances, the gland becomes very large, before great impediment to deglutition be occasioned. It is rare to meet with a simple tightening of the tube, by a narrow band of induration, and still less to find the stricture confined to a mere fold of the mucous membrane. Generally, the contrac- tion is at least a quarter of an inch broad, sometimes much more; and most frequently both the mucous and muscidar coats are involved in the induration. This spot, however, may be a great deal less in diameter than natural, that is to41 say, there is quite the reverse of general or surrounding swelling, though this may also take place. According to the nai'i'owness of the induration, and the straightness of the canal passing through it, will, ceteris paribus, be the ease of passing an instrument. The first circumstance which calls the atten- tion of the patient to the local diseases, is difficulty of swallow- ing a morsel of the same size he used to do. Even that size • which can still pass, requires to be swallowed more slowly. He is obliged to chew more completely liis food, and put less at a time into his mouth, otherwise the morsel sticks in the passage, and he has much spasmodic action excited. The constrictors are thrown into strong action, and operate on the larynx, so that, independent of any pressure by the morsel from behind, there is difficulty of breathing, with livid face. If the morsel cannot be forced down, the muscles, after a struggle, invert their action, and it is brought up along with much viscid or glairy mucus from the pharynx. Very early, sometimes before any dysphagia appears, the digestion is im- paired, and the bowels are generally torpid. The indigestion increases with the complaint, and the bowels become more costive. The countenance is sallow, and the body wastes, whilst the strength sinks from want of nourishment, from the sympathetic effects of the disease on the system, independent of mechanical causes, and from the frequent and severe fits of struggling and suffering which are produced. Death may then take place, before obstruction be complete; but life may be protracted, till the canal be completely closed. In such cases, and in those approaching to them, the pharynx is much distended. I have seen a patient able to retain for a time, without much inconvenience, several ounces of fluid, which at last was vomited. In a case where the obstruction was seated just above the cardia, and was about an inch and a half long, the oesophagus above was enlarged to more than double its natural size. In all cases where we suspect this disease to exist, we may ascertain it by the probang, which ought to have a bit of soft sponge firmly attached to its extremity. The whalebone should be so slender, as to be easily pliable, as it thereby runs more readily along tlie pharynx. It is to beintroduced over the tongue, to the top of the pharynx, and the finger placed on the back of' the point, so as to bend it down fairly into the pharynx. If tliis be not done, it is apt to press too much on the back of that tube, and do injury. It will also pass more easily, if the mouth be well opened, and the head bent somewhat back. If the probang pass freely down, there is no stricture. If it stop, and after pausing a moment, do not go on, there is an obstruction. Before with- drawing the instrument, we should mark that part which cor- responds to the front teeth of the upper jaw, which, when measured to the point, will ascertain the situation of the stric- ture. This may be in any part of the oesophagus, but it is usually at its very top, where it joins the pharynx, namely, at the cricoid cartilage; and the measurement to this part, we have seenj varies according to the length of the neck, being in the adult less than six inches; we next try a pro- bang with a small rounded end, uncovered with sponge, which being smaller, generally passes with more or less facility. Tliis is a hopeless disease, but as the symptoms are generally aggravated by exposure to cold, irregularities of diet, neglect of the bowels, &c., some good may be done by strictly avoiding all such injurious causes. No internal medi- cine has any effect. Mercury, invariably, I tliink, does harm, unless perhaps foi* a short time at first, if it have improved the action of the chylopoietic organs. A course of mercury is injurious. Conium, and other medicines of the same nature, are, to say the best of them, useless. Iodine, so long as it acts as a tonic, and promotes digestion, may be given. The occa- sional use of the probang or bougie, mechanically to dilate the stricture, has been often resorted to, but with very little bene- fit, for the effect, if any, must be temporary. Still, if this do not irritate, we may thus keep the passage longer open. The introduction of a flexible tube from the nostril, is more likely to be serviceable, if it be retained for some time, whilst it also enables us to inject fluids into the stomach. But we must not forget that it may excite the part, and cause more swelling or suppuration; for this stricture is not a simple contraction of healthy structure, but is a diseased organization. This view43 will also make us very scrupulous in employing the caustic bougie. Were the disease strictly local, and not very extensive, the portion could, without dividing any nerve or vessel, except the oesophageal branches, be cut out, and fluids afterwards injected into the stomach, by a tube inserted into the oesophagus, from the external wound. But the difficulty of ascertaining the extent and connexion of the disease, and the hazard arising from the effect of the wound on the system, must be considered as discouraging. Making an aperture in the oesophagus below the stricture, and introducing a tube, by which fluids could be injected into the stomach, is not immediately hazardous, and may be the mean of prolonging life for some time. The operation of simple oesophagotomy is less dangerous than the excision of even a small portion, for there is only an opening made in the tub% which is still left a continuous canal, that may be expected to heal over a flexible tube inserted from the nostril. This operation, or rather pharyngotomy, may be required, on account of substances impacted in the end of the pharynx, and where, from the inflammation and suppu- ration likely to be produced by them, and the necessity of inserting a tube from the nostril into the larynx, or opening, and preserving open, the larynx by laryngotomy, we calculate on more certain evil, than may follow extracting the substance. The first steps of the operation are similar to those for expos- ing the common carotid artery, and therefore I will not detail them here. The incision, if we have our choice, should be on the left side, as the tube rather inclines in that direction, but we must be regulated by the projection of the substance. We carry the incision from the side of the thy- roid to some way below the cricoid cartilage, and should make the extent rather free. W^e next dissect between these cartilages and thyroid gland on the one hand, and the carotid artery on the other, keeping rather nearer the artery, so that we are in less risk of cutting the branches of the thyroid artery, or injuring the recurrent nerve. Separ- ating the parts, we expose the distended pharynx and top of the oesophagus, and may easily open it if we cut on it fairly. But as it is connected to the vertebrae, and neighbouring44 muscles, by an expansion of fascia, we may, if we cut at the very side, and tlien go obliquely backward, dissect unnecessarily behind the pharynx, and, in place of opening it, only detach it. T.he opening being made, the foreign substance is then to be extracted by a pair of forceps. Sometimes a lateral thyroid vein comes in the way, and can hardly fail to be divided; but it is not likely to bleed much if the finger be instantly placed on it. No arterial branch of any import- ance is in the way, and any muscular rami which bleed can be tied. Twigs of the recurrent neiwe on the pharynx or oesophagus must be cut by spreading over part of the sur- face to be divided, but these are of no vital importance, and we may, I think, avoid the laryngeal, or most essential, part of the nerve as readily as we may the cai’otid artery. The wound is to be accurately closed, and 4he patient nour- ished by liquids injected by a tube, either introduced pro re nata, or retained in the passage. He may, perhaps for a short time, dispense with this by having clysters of milk or soup. The danger of pharyngotomy is not from the hazard of injuring vital parts, but from the inflammation which may be produced in an important part already disordered, if not inflamed, by the cause requiring the operation. Polypous tumours obstructing deglutition are to be removed more solito. But there are soft vegetations, springing from an extensive sur- face, which cannot have a ligature applied to them. These often elongate so as to hang down into the oesophagus, and obstruct both deglutition and respiration. In the act of vomit- ing, such tumours may be forced into the mouth, and if not speedily swallowed, or pulled off, they may cause suffocation. They are generally of a strumous nature, but invaluably produce death, partly by inducing constitutional disease or hectic, and partly by intei'fering with nourishment and respira- tion. The base being broad, and the situation often low, the ligature cannot be applied, but I have known temporary relief obtained by producing vomiting, and pulling a portion off when it was forced into the mouth, or by pushing, occa- sionally, a probang down the oesophagus so as to brush off a part and make a passage.45 The pharynx is supplied with nerves from the eighth and glosso-pharyngeal, uniting with twigs from the accessory, forming altogether the pharyngeal plexus, which is also increased by filaments from the superior ganglion of the sympathetic nerve. Branches from this plexus' are seen at the sides, but particularly on the back of the pharynx. Lower, the oesophagus is supplied by the eighth. In organic affections of the stomach, particularly of the pylorus, a diffi- culty of swallowing is sometimes an early symptom, and may lead to mistakes. Both in stomachic affections, and in cases where the cervical department of nerves is morbidly sus- ceptible, temporary fits of dysphagia are not uncommon, or the pharynx or oesophagus are easily thrown into irregular or spasmodic action. Attention to the diet, regular use of laxatives, quinine, chalybeates, the cold bath, &c. are useful, and, if these fail, a small issue in the nape of the neck does good. Palsy, or loss of power, is another cause, preventing deglutition. This sometimes takes place in some of those complaints called nervous; but it is more frequent in certain kinds of fever, where the medulla oblongata is much affected. These may arise from excitation of that, and the neighbouring parts, and are often very protracted, and accompanied with various paralytic affections, changing both their place and duration. Loss of speech, dysphagia, dyspnoea, &c. are attendants on these. The early use of the lancet, and of purgatives, followed by an issue in the neck, constitute the most useful practice. Palsy of the pharynx also may attend typhus or scarlet fever, and the patient rnay require to have noui’ishment injected into the stomach, till the power of swal- lowing return. I need scarcely add, that, in apoplexy, and the end of many diseases, the power of swallowing is lost before death. In others, where the nerves of the pharynx are less affected, it continues till the very last. Encysted tumours sometimes form at the side of the pha- rynx, and, if at its upper part, they can be felt from the mouth. If they be originally seated high, and have not pro- duced so much inconvenience as to have required their being opened from the mouth, they gradually extend down along4-G the constrictor, swell up the mastoid muscle, and either separate it behind from the trapezius, or before from the sterno-thyroideus, and appear in the neck covered only by the platysma and fascia. By pressing on the tumour, with one finger in the mouth and another on its lower or most prominent part in the neck, the existence of fluid may be determined. It may be easily, and, so far as I have seen, safely opened in the neck, provided the aperture be closed. The fluid soon collects. After a second or third opening, the aperture may be kept open. A sinus forms, but at last the cavity is obliterated. The pharynx may inflame just below the tonsil; and when this cynanche pharyngea ends in suppuration, an abscess is formed lower than in cynanche tonsillaris. It is more out of sight, causes more pain, and difficulty in swallowing, and often so much in breathing, that it might be desirable to open the abscess, could it be easily done. I have, however, never seen a case where this was absolutely necessary. The matter gene- rally forms on the inside of the constrictor medius ; and, there- fore, does not point outwardly. It presses, farther from each other, the palato-pharyngeus and stylo-pharyngeus, and opens by the margin of the former muscle through the mucous mem- brane. Were the tumour large, and the symptoms so urgent as to demand an operation, then, if it could not be safely reached from the mouth, an opening must be cautiously made through the constrictor medius, at the end of the os hyoides. After makinff such an external incision as enables us to judge O that the lingual artery and nerve are not in the way, a small puncture should be made at the spot where the matter is best felt. must not go so far back as to come on the carotid, and must also remember’ the curve which is sometimes made by the thyroidea superior. If we go too high, we must take care of the facial artery. The veins may be seen and pressed aside. As there are many important parts here, and they are, even when the constrictor is extended by matter, near each other, the opening must be small, and is never to be made, uidess the difficulty of breathing be extreme. Two small, or short, and two long muscles, cover the larynx47 uiicl ti'flchcfl. r*h6 liyo-thyroiclcus is ^ $hortj musclcj about an inch broad, arising from, and covering the upper half of the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and inserted into the body and a great part of the horn of the os hyoides. It comes as far forward as the side of the notch in the front of the car- tilage, and is separated from its fellow by a septum of cellular substance stretching up from the notch, and which sends a thin layer under the muscle, but sometimes there is an interval of nearly half an inch between them. It is covered by the sterno and omo-hyoidei, which are implanted higher into the os hyoi- des. The hyo-thyroid gland, when it exists, is below it, and if that swell, it is so bound down as to affect both the breathing, arid speech, and swallowing. The muscles must be fairly divided, if we wish to remove the gland. The crico-thyroideus consists of two portions. The foremost is the shortest, and runs directly upwards. The backmost is longer, and runs obhquely back- ward to the horn of the thyroid cartilage. The muscles on the opposite side do not meet in front, but there is, on the crico-thyroid membrane, an intervening space of from a quarter to half an inch, filled with cellular substance. The muscles come nearer each other on the cricoid cartilage itself. Three larger muscles cover the laiyngeal tube more completely. The sterno-hyoideus covers all the front from the sternum to the os hyoides. It varies in breadth from half an inch to near an inch. It is implanted not into the margin of the sternum, but into the internal surface, a little below the top. Those of opposite sides are joined in the front or median line by cellular substance, but sometimes there is, near the sternum, a slight divarication filled up by fascia, on removing which, the sterno-thyroidei which lies below, are seen in the angle. The sterno-thyroideus joins its fellow in the median line, so as to cover the cricoid cartilage and trachea, and it extends more laterally than the former muscle, and, therefore, must be broader. The breadth varies according to the muscularity of the indi\ddual, and the length and slimness of the neck. It is about an inch broad at the top, in some individuals more, and at the bottom is sometimes, but not uniformly, so broiul as to extend from the median line to an inch beyond48 the sternal end of the clavicle, and at this part, not only covers the carotid artery, hut stretches to the margin of the internal jugular vein. But often it is not so broad, and fascia, with some muscular fibres, are found to extend in its place. At the lower part, it shelves quite below the sterno-mastoid, that muscle lying there both over it and the sterno-hyoideus, ex- cept on their very front. Even higher, the sterno-mastoid still lies over part of the sterno-thyroideus, and sometimes of the sterno-hyoideus. It is connected by firm fiiscia to the sterno- thyroideus, and this must be divided before we can get between them to the parotid artery. The two sterno-thyroidei are not in contact at the upper part, but gradually approach, and meet each other at least an inch above the sternum. We are apt to mistake the implantation of the cervical fiiscia into the clavicle for part of the origin of the sterno-thyroideus; but on cutting this, we trace the muscle lower, even to the second rib, and its sternal origin is not fully displayed, till the sterno- hyoideus be raised. It sometimes extends as a thin muscular sheet for an inch outward from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion. In such operations as require this muscle to be dis- played and divided, we must remember, that at the margin of the sternum it lies pretty deep between the extremities of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is three quarters of an inch deep from the face of the margin of the sternum. The omo-hyoideus, except at its very upper part, is covered by the sterno-mastoid, and at the lower part winds out- ward by the outer mai'gin of the sterno-thyroideus, as if to strengthen and extend it. For half an inch, sometimes more, above the clavicle, the sterno-thyroideus covers the carotid artery, whicli cannot be seen till this muscle be raised or turned forward; and as in certam individuals the omo-hyoideus does not decussate the artery till we come so low, it may con- tinue to be covered with these muscles for nearly half way up the neck. The direction, however, and breadth of the omo- hyoideus is variable. Very often it is five-eighths of an inch broad. It arises from the upper costa of the scapula, about an inch from the angle, or three quarters of an inch from the root of the coracoid process. It comes up from behind the49 clavicle, at an inch ami a half fi*om the back of its acromial end, winding obliquely upward and forward over the scalenus posticus and plexus of nerves, and crossed by the posterior jugular vein, which adhei'es to its fascia about from two and tliree quarters of an inch, to three inches from the sterno- claviculai- articulation. It is, however, irregular in its course; for sometimes it rims nearly in a straight line to the os hyoides, from tlie scapula, forming the base of a triangle, completed by the larynx and trachea in front, and the clavicle below, and, in that case, the distance from the base, formed by the margin of the muscle, to the apex at the sternal end of the clavicle, is two inches. More frequently it runs for some way nearly parallel with, or at a small angle to, the clavicle. It then forms a tendon, which is connected to the neighbouring parts by firm cellular substance, acting like a pulley, and extending as a sheath along the posterior belly. Becoming again fleshy, it goes first a little forward, and then upward to the os hyoides, decussating obliquely the sterno-thyroideus, till it get to its insertion more forward tlian that muscle. It often comes in contact with the outer margin of the sterno-hyoideus at tlie cricoid cartilage, running from that up on the sterno-thy- roideus. The tendon of the omo-hyoideus divides it into a clavicular and guttural portion; and whether these two por- tions form an angle with each other at the tendon and its pulley, or run in a more continued line without a pulley, the muscle crosses the carotid artery: but in the one case, the point of decussation, by the upper margin of die muscle, is lower than in the other, ranging from one to two inches and a half above the clavicle. Often, the muscle crosses nearly opposite to the under end of the thyroid cartilage, or about midway between the clavicle and the angle of the jaw. All these muscles are of importance in the anatomy of the neck, and in tlie relations of tumour, as well as the exposure of the carotid artery. At the top, we find the sterno and omo-hyoideus connected to the os hyoides, and attached to each otlier. The latter lies most outward, winding down over the thyroid cartilage, and passing within a quarter of an inch of its upper angle. If traced downward, it will be found.50 to tlie cricoid cartilage, in contact with the outer margin of the sterno-hyoideus, lying on the sterno-thyroideus, a little of w’hich projects from under its outer margin. Then, it inclines more outward over the sterno-thyroideus, exposing a part of that muscle, which it has left, in the space between itself and the sterno-hyoideus. It reverses, therefore, its relation to the outer margin of the sterno-thyroideus in the upper and under part of the neck. It lies on the side of the thyroid cartilage, is firmly bound to it, and is so covered with fascia, that its course cannot be seen till that, and the platysma be removed, and the sterno-mastoid turned up, for it is, in a certain degree, overhung by that muscle. The sterno-hyoideus, when removed, exhibits the white thyi’oid cartilage in front. The lateral part of the cartilage is covered by the hyo-thyroideus, but this leaves a little of the cartilage bare in front, and that is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, aided by the omo-hyoideus. The sterno-thyroideus is inserted into the cartilage at the under margin of the hyothyroideus, so that these cover its sides. These three muscles cover the thyroid gland. In front it is quite covered by the sterno-hyoideus, as well as beneath that, by the sterno-thyroideus. These also cover the lateral part of the gland, except at the top, where the defect is supplied by the omo-hyoideus. When the platysma is removed, no part of the gland ought to be seen, unless these muscles have, by swelling of the gland, or other causes, been pushed separate from one another Wlien the thyroid gland enlarges in scrofulous habits, or in other cases, where it is not much indurated, it raises and separates the muscles, but does not materially impede the motion of the cartilages. It projects at the upper part between the omo and sterno-hyoidei, and at the lower half between the omo and sterno-thyroidei muscles. The extent of separation depends on the size of the tumour, and also on whether any part push out in front between the muscles of opposite sides. If pressure be not made on the recurrent nerve, the breathing is seldom affected. It is otherwise in carcinoma, and hard tumours adhering firmly to the parts below. Possibly, the rigidity of the muscles binding down such a tumour may contribute to51 the effect on the breathing; but the principal cause of the difficulty of breathing, as well as of swallowing, is from the individual parts below the tumour being matted together. The recurrent nerve is involved in the diseased part, the muscles lose their properties, and at last one hard and solid mass presses on the gullet. The muscles which are situated above the os hyoides are very important in their connexions and relations. Tliey fill the space from the chin to the angle of the jaw, being placed in layers on one another, and shut out, from the mouth and pharynx, by the mucous membrane, the root of the tongue, and the constrictors of the pharynx. Tlie digastric is, in many respects, the one which claims our first notice. Neither the anterior nor posterior portions are very oblique in their course. The middle or tendinous portion is laid along the upper surface of the side of the os hyoides, winding, on the constrictor, along the side of the root of the tongue : the end of the posterior belly sweeps past the situ- ation of the side of the epiglottis. The direction of the two bellies must vary according to the position of the head. If the head be level, the posterior belly runs, from the mastoid fossa, forward, and a very little downward, forming a very small angle with the back part of the jaw-blade, or indeed runs forward almost parallel to it. When the head is bent back, it runs in the course of a line drawn from the front of the extremity of the mastoid process, to the fore part of the os hyoides. llie anterior belly, if traced from the chin, goes almost directly backward, if the head be level; more or less downward, according as the chin is raised. It is flat and broad, so that those of the two sides uniting in the middle by a cellular line, form a sheet tolerably thick, and, in subjects having large muscles, extending above an inch from the middle of the chin, or even reaching to two inches and a half from the angle of the jaw. In more slender subjects, the belly is not an inch broad. 1. he two keep in contact for three quarters of an inch back from the inside of the chin, and then divaricate a very little, showing, near the os hyoides, a little of the mylo-hyoidei between them, or of the genio-hyoidei, should the mylo-52 hyoiilei not meet closely in front. The whole length of the belly is fully two inches. It is attached to the front and side ot the os hyoides, to about an inch from the end of the horn, or an inch and a half from the angle of the jaw. In the very obtuse angle formed by the two bellies is seen the mylo- hyoideus sloping downward and foi'ward. The posterior belly has the stylo-hyoideus lying on its upper surface, as if wrap- ped over it, and presently it almost encircles, so that, above the horn of the os hyoides, it liides it; but farther forward, the tendon of the digastric becomes visible, emerging from below it. At this part, namely, near the junction of the body and horn of the os hyoides, the stylo-hyoideus often splits into two parts, one running before, the other behind, the tendon of the digastric, which is also bound down to the os hyoides by a ligamentous expansion or sheath, acting like a pulley. If we press in a probe, just at the peak or angle of the jaw, we graze the inferior margin of the digastric. If we introduce it three quarters of an inch above the peak, we generally touch the upper margin, or rather that of the stylo-hyoideus, which is lying on it. We also come on the point of the styloid pro- cess, and on the carotid arteiy, as it is commg up from behind these muscles. The digastric is, in one respect, a superficial muscle, but its posterior belly really hes deep, in relation to the angle of the jaw. If we turn off the skin and platysma myoides, we easily see the muscle, but it is an inch in from the inner surface of the angle of the jaw, and forms the exte- rior muscular defence to the root of the tongue, and side of the pharynx. Immediately above the digastric, and somewliat deeper, are the three styloid muscles. The stylo-hyoideus, in a surgical point of view, may be considered merely as an addition to the posterior belly of the digastric, to which it is united by cellu- lar substance, so that the one may be found by the other. It arises from the styloid process, and the posterior, or .outer sur- face of the styloid membranous expansion. It does not touch tlie os hyoides so soon as the digastric, being above it. The stylo-glossus, is a little deeper and higher in its course, althouo-h it arise a little lower, namely, from the end of the53 process, and inner or anterior surface of the styloid expansion. This continuation of the origin from the ligament, makes it broader than it would otherwise be, and sometimes renders the muscle divisible into two portions. In that case, tlie portion which arises from the process, may send down a prolongation along the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides, forming a stylo-hyoideus alter; or this may be described as a fjisciculus of the hyo-glossus, losing itself in the stylo-glossus. If we remove the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, and look at the region between the hyo-glossus and pterygoideus internus, we shall, on rendering the former muscle tense, by pressing down the os hyoides, see it apparently sending a prolongation to the styloid process, or receiving one from it. This, when it exists, differs from the proper stylo-hyoideus in passing on the inside of the external carotid artery. It meets the hyo-glossus about half an inch forward from the angle of the jaw. The stylo- glossus is a long muscle, and fully as thick as the stylo-hyoideus. It passes to the root of the tongue, near the anterior pillar of the fauces, and runs along its side, very nearly to tlie tip. It is slightly connected to the pterygoideus internus, as it passes that muscle. As the stylo-hyoideus is connected to the digastric, so is tliis muscle connected to the stylo-hyoideus by a little cellular substance. On clearing away this, or separating a little these muscles, the stylo-pharyngeus is seen between them, but deeper, that is, nearer the median line of the body, and running downwai'd and forward. By pressing forward the styloid expansion, it is seen resting on the deep muscles at the transverse process of the vertebra, at the postero-lateral part of the pharynx. It is presently lost under the middle con- strictor, but sends also some fibres to the thyroid cartilage. We have seen that the digastric! form a sheet from the chin to the os hyoides. On removing this, we find another layer formed by the mylo-hyoidei, which, like the digastric!, meet in front, and are united by a kind of semi-tendinous line. This muscle arises from the chin, back along the transverse ridge on the outside of the jaw, and comes very near the ptery- goideus, if it be not in actual contact with it. Its posterior margin corresponds nearly to the anterior one of the masseter.54 or ends about an inch and a quarter before the angle of the jaw. Its line of origin is oblique, for at the front, it is only a quar- ter of an inch above the margin of the bone, whilst behind, it is seven-eighths. It is also broader above, than at its inser- tion into the body and side of the os hyoides. For, at the top it is an inch and three quarters broad, whilst below it is only an inch. In large subjects, the whole muscle is sometimes broader. In slender subjects, the insertion may be only three quarters of an inch broad. It forms a back or rest along the os hyoides, to the tendon of the digastric; and, indeed, at fii’st sight, the posterior part of the muscle seems to be going downward and forward, to be inserted into the digastric. Dividing the mylo-hyoidei, we find at the chin a third layer formed by the genio-hyoidei, going in the same direction with the anterior bellies of the digastrici, only more down- ward, as they arise higher within the mylo-hyoidei, which thus are in front, enclosed between them and the digastrici. The hyo-glossus arises from the very front and whole of the body, and anterior part of the horn, of the os hyoides. It forms a broad sheet, which mounts up to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is inserted from behind the anterior pillar of the fauces, near the root of the tongue, forward to very near the frenum. The two hyo-glossi are in contact only at their origin, for as they mount nearly directly up, the genio- hyo-glossus, which runs down obliquely to the os hyoides, gets between them. The anterior margin is situated about an inch and three quarters from the angle of the jaw, and cannot be connected with the tongue farther forward than the frenum. The posterior goes up near the end of the horn of the os hyoides, and from this part we can trace upward and back- ward, what at first appears to be a continuation of the muscle. But it is a distinct muscle, the constrictor medius, which partly slips in beneath the hyo-glossus. This latter muscle is some- times divided into two portions, by a cellular line going up about a quarter of an inch back from the front of the os hyoides. Through this line, when it exists, tlie lingual artery comes out to get on the genio-hyo-glossus. ^ The genio-hyo-glossus is a broad flat muscle united in the55 median line to its fellow. Along the anterior margin of these muscles, the genio-hyoidei run, their surfaces being at right angles to those of the genio-hyo-glossi. If we remove the mylo and genio-hyoidei, we see the anterior portion of these muscles running downward and backward, to be inserted into the os hyoides, between the origins of the hyo-glossi. The rest runs backward and upward, to be inserted into the tongue, and is hid within the hyo-glossi; on removing the latter, the whole of the former is exposed. When we remove the skin and fascia from the throat above the os hyoides, the first thing which calls our attention, is the obtuse angle formed by the two bellies of the digastric, in which we find lodged the submaxillary gland. The mus- cular sheet within the angle is formed by part of the mylo- hyoideus, and of the hyo-glossus, and of the constrictor medius. If we remove the former, we see the hyo-glossus. If we run the finger between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus, or separate the parts with the knife, we are led up to the membrane of the mouth between the tongue and the jaw-blade; on dividing which, we enter the cavity of the mouth. If we go on the outside of the mylo-hyoideus, we go between it and the jaw, and are stopt by the connexion of the one with the other. If we go on the inside of the hyo-glossus, we are led up to the under surface of the side of the tongue. When the muscles are dissected in situ, they are easily stretched, and the tongue seems more loosely attached to the os hyoides than it really is. But if the parts be insulated, we then find the root of the tongue to be in a manner identified with the os hyoides. The truth is, the tongue may be considered in two views. In the one, as made up of the prolongations of the muscles into its substance, and their combination with the peculiar texture of the tongue, and the muscular fibres which are intrinsic to it. In the other, as an organ distinct from the muscles going to it, and to which they are only attached. In this view, the muscles may be considered as intermedia bind- ing it to the os hyoides; and its root or base will be described as forming a segment of a circle accompanying the whole course of the os hyoides, till it join, at its sides, the superior constric-56 tors of the pharynx. As I have already mentioned, it appears more or less firmly or directly attached to the os hyoides, according to the stretching of the intervening muscles. The lingualis, which peculiarly belongs to the tongue, is in its very median line, and forms its most direct insertion. Next to that, are, on each side, the genio-hyo-glossi, which exactly flank that muscle, and connect the tongue with the front and more lateral parts of the os hyoides. If we place the finger at the root of the tongue, before the epiglottis, we feel the os hyoides, and press on the attachment of the lingualis and genio-hyo- glossi. At the sides they are fortified by the hyo-glossi. The stylo-glossi connect the tongue with the styloid process, contribute to the prolongation of its curve, or extension past the sides of the epiglottis, and strengthen its connexion with the pharynx, which is united to the tongue and its muscles, the constrictor being connected to it, and down along the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides. The relation, of all the muscles I have noticed, to the vessels, nerves, and glands, will come immediately to be pointed out. But, first, it will be necessary to explain the fasciae of the neck. As these are not only complicated, but not alike distinct in every subject, it is not easy to give an unperplexed account of them. It will simplify the matter to observe that. First, On dissecting off the skin and mere subcutaneous cellular substance, we observe a sheet of muscular fibres, named platysma myoides, which can be traced from the cheek, or side of the face, over the jaw, and down along the neck, not only to the clavicle, all the way back to the acTO-» mion, but, also, for some way down over the pectoral and del- toid muscles. It covers the front and sides completely, but does not go round to the back of the neck, being nearly bounded by a line drawn from the front of the mastoid pro- cess to the acromion. This cuts off the upper end of the mastoid muscle, which is only covered by fascia. In a strong muscular subject the fibres, when first exposed, are very dis- tinct, but when dried they disappear. Second, We have under this thin fibrous sheet, and where- ever it exists, a stratum of dense cellular substance, on which57 the muscular fibres extend, and to which they inseparably adhere. This, which may be called the platysmal fascia, is divisible into two portions. The one, merely covers the neck, and is the substratum on which the muscular fibres spread, and may therefore be said to form one coat with them. But there is this difference, namely, that when strongly marked, the superficial veins are found to lie between the muscular fibres and substratum, so as to appear involved in the latter; but, when less distinct, the united sheet seems to go over the veins. The same holds true with regard to the most of the cutaneous nerves, though many of the supra-clavicular nerves are below the united coat. The other portion, is part of the same, but consists of prolongations or expansions from this external sheet, passing deeper under the muscles, and over the nerves and vessels, and lost in a deeper fascia belonging to the parts below. Third, This deeper fascia is more complex, and may be traced from different points, according to the choice of the examinator. For instance, we may say that it proceeds from the depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris and masse- ter; from the jaw, both blade and ramus; and even witliin, from the pterygoid muscle, and goes down as a deep fascia over, and also around, the muscles and glands, particularly those between the jaw and os hyoides. Or, if we trace it upwards, we should say that it was inserted into the border of the jaw-bone, from the chin up to very near the condyle, and thence was continued on the muscles, both external and internal, such as the masseter and pterygoideus. It may, for distinction, be called the myloid fascia. Fourth, An expansion of this myloid fascia goes off from the ramus and angle of the jaw, back to the styloid process. Or, we may say that a sheet of fascia from that process goes to be implanted into the jaw. It is so distinct and important that, although it may be traced as continuous with the former, I would distinguish it as the styloid expansion. It forms a sheet more or less distinct, and strong, connected, behind, to the point, and greatest part, of the styloid process, part of the mastoid process, and top of the mastoid muscle.58 Before, it is connected witli the angle and ramus of tlie jaw, up to the condyle, and from the peak or angle, is pro- longed both to the os hyoides and mastoid muscle, in a way soon to be noticed. It is strong and distinct near the angle, less so as we approach the condyle, and in some instances the upper half, or even more, is more like dense cellular sub- stance than membrane. The styloid process being more internal, that is, nearer the median line of the body than the ramus of the jaw, it is e^ddent that this expansion, going between the one and the other, must be oblique; for if it went straight back it should go to the mastoid process. It is also evident that, as the styloid process is placed downward and forward, at an angle with the ramus, this expansion ought to have its under margin angular also, and to have it exactly bounded by the stylo-hyoideus. This, however, is not always apparently the case, for the muscles below are covered with a layer, which may be confounded with them, particularly when that layer, or continuation, is denser and stronger than usual. Were it entire from the condyle down to the angle of the jaw, and the under margin of the digastric muscle, it is also evident that nothing could pass from the outside inward, or vice versa. But it is not dis- tinct or quite entire near the condyle, and we know that the external carotid artery passes out just above the digastric. Fifths I have traced this from the styloid process to the jaw, as affording the most correct idea of the expansion. But it will be useful to reverse the examination. We have seen that the platysmal fascia arises from the face. It firmly covers the parotid gland, but, even when this is removed, a thin layer is still found to cover the gland. We find that the masseter muscle is covered with a fascia, more or less distinct in different subjects. This, if we trace it from the neck upwards, is found to be a continuation of the myloid fascia, and vice versa. At the anterior margin of the gland it sepa- rates into two layers. A thin one goes over the gland under the platysmal fascia, another goes below the gland to the ramus, so that if we dissect off the gland from the muscle to the ramus, and then turn it back, we find it connected to the59 ramus by this layer, the attachment of which to the ramus we have not yet cut. If we raise the lower extremity of the gland, and the back part of it, and separate the connexion for- ward to the ramus, we shall find that we come to this connexion of fascia and ramus; and in performing this dissection we have exposed the styloid expansion, which we find to be fixed at the ramus, and to form the bond of connexion, there, between the gland and the ramus, and to be a continuation of the fascia from the masseter muscle on the outside of the jaw, and the pterygoideus on the inside. W^e also find that the parotid gland has been resting on the styloid expansion, and connected to it by a cellular layer, sometimes so strong and distinct as to resemble a lamina of fascia reflected along the under surface of the gland, and intimately adherent to it. This extends from the lower end of the gland for more than an inch above the angle of the jaw. Sixth, If we raise or remove this part of the gland, we see the carotid ai’tery and vein lying on the styloid expansion; but these are not yet quite bare, for a thin layer passes over them and the digastric muscle; when this is removed, we see that the carotid artery has come out at the upper margin of the digastric and stylo-hyoideus, and got on the styloid expansion, lying between it and this thin layer, and conse- quently not in the substance of the gland, in wliich it is not, properly speaking, involved, tiU we get to an inch and a quarter above the angle of the jaw. Seventh, The styloid expansion, and masseteric or myloid fascia, are really continuous, and merely different parts of the same sheet. From the angle of the jaw, there goes off a sep- tum from this sheet, dividing the parotid from the submaxillary gland. It seems, however, to have more connexion with the styloid than the myloid portion. It runs downward and backward toward the mastoid muscle, and is attached to its margin about an inch below the angle of the jaw, being lost there in the general fascia of the throat. Eighth, From the angle of the jaw, and its connexion with the pterygoid muscle, a strip of fascia more distinct than the neighbouring sheet to which it belongs, and gradually taper-GO ing as it descends, goes downward and forw'ard within the digastric and stylo-hyoideus muscles along the posterior mar- gin of the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides. Near its termina- tion it meets the ninth pair of nerves, and either passes under It, or splits into two layers, one going over, another under the nerve, after which it is inserted into the os liyoides, at the junction of its body and horn. I would not consider it as necessary to notice this strip, were it not that it has been described as a particular ligament, the ligamentum stylo- mylo-hyoideum. Ninth, On removing the platysma-myoides, and prosecuting the examination, so far as I have gone, the duplicature and expansions I have described, may all be considered as con- tinuations of the same fascia, more or less distinct. We can trace it down along the neck, all the way to the clavicle, not only covering the muscles, but diving between them, and surrounding many of them, covering the vessels and nerves, and binding all the parts together. Although it be a continuation of the myloid portion of fascia, and of that descending over, and from beneath, the parotid gland, it here receives the name of deep cervical fascia, to distinguish it from the superficial one connected with the fibres of the platysma-myoides. But I must next mention, that although the platysmal fascia be superficial, and in most places, leaves, when dissected off, this deep one distinct, yet, it is in all its extent adherent to it, by cellular substance, and in some places very intimately. Thus, as it mounts over the parotid gland, we find it so attached to its layer of fascia on the face, as to form a covering to the surface of the gland, or a parotid fascia. We also observe, that in the neck it is, par- ticularly at the margin of the mastoid muscle, so identified with the deep fascia, that its prolongation under that muscle w'ould almost appear to be a prolongation of an inner layer of platysmal fascia. And thus, although we still admitted the distinction of superficial and deep fascia of the neck and jaw, we would say, that like the serous membrane of the abdomen, whatever name we gave to particular portions, all were parts of the same sheet. If I appear to have given too minute61 a description of this fascia, and hereafter to continue unne- cessarily tlie detail, I beg it to be remembered, that the subject is of much importance in the consideration of swelled glands, and other tumours, as well as in deliberations in which the vessels and nerves are concerned. A gland or tumour may be at first superficial, quite moveable, and connected only by cellular substance to the neighbouring parts, or it may be deep, but not strongly adherent to any of the fascial prolongations. Very soon, however, it becomes in either case attached to these, and presently is fixed; nay more, if malignant in its nature, it implicates those very prolongations in the specific disease. But farther, from the intimate connexion between these duplicatures and expansions, and the vessels and nerves, we have those, soon, bound to the tumour, or inti- mately attached to it. By our knowledge of those fasciae, we may decide more readily, whether an incision should set free a firm tumour, or whether the attachment were likely to be of such a kind as rendered it impossible to remove the tumour, without cutting parts essential to life, or too important to be touched. Tenths Returning to the consideration of the platysmal fascia, it is evident, as this goes off every where from the jaw to the neck, that from the relation of the angle of the jaw to the neck, a puckering or fold of this fascia, as it passes oft’fi'om the angle, must in certain positions be produced. By turning the head backward, and to the opposite side, a duplicature is formed, which feels hard like a cord, and extends from the angle to.the margin of the mastoid muscle, about an inch below the jaw. This portion is connected with the deeper septum of the styloid expansion, noticed at the eighth observation. But in so far as the platysmal fascia is concerned, this cord or line is merely produced by position. It has, therefore, very improperly been called the ligament of the angle of the jaw. Eleventh, When the mere skin is removed, we would say that the platysma-myoides, with its substratum of platysmal fascia, covers the parotid gland, jaw, and neck, and does nothing more. But when we examine the anterior margin of the62 mastoid muscle, we find not only one layer of this fascia going backward over the muscle, and forward over the throat, but another plunging deeper under the muscle. At that fold, called the ligament of the angle of the jaw, we find that an inner layer of thin fascia passes forward toward the os hyoides, and is lost in, or incorporated with, the myloid fascia, whilst another goes backward under the mastoid muscle, and adheres to the myloid fascia, at the border of the descending portion of the parotid gland. Prosecuting the examination of the platysmal fascia lower, we find at the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle, its inner layer or prolongation, in like n\anner passing forward over the vessels, toward the cylinder of the larynx and trachea, and becoming lost there in the myloid fascia; whilst behind, we find it extending backward towards the transverse processes of the vertebrse, covering the cervical plexus, levator scapulm, and scaleni, and pertaining rather to those parts, than to the under surface of the mastoid. When we merely divide the outer layer along the margin of the muscle, and pull up the fascia from below, we see more distinctly the spreading backward and forward of the fascia, and render more visible and evident, an angle which always exists at this line, between the two divarications of the fascia; in which angle we have a number of glands lodged, running parallel to the carotid artery on its outer margin. Different prolongations of this are traceable, and the description would vary in different subjects, from the different degrees of dis- tinctness. There is often not merely the layer shelving back over the levator, &c.; but a thin layer is reflected near the posterior margin of the mastoid, forward along its under surface, so that when the muscle is turned back, as we would open a book, we find two leaves of fascia displayed, with the vessels lying in the angle. To proceed with the anterior leaf, we find that it not only passes over the great vessels, and is lost in the sterno-thyroid fascia, but it also passes under them; one thin detachment passes all the way under them, to the oeso- phagus, which it assists in fixing down, and thence, as well as from the sides of the pharynx, it is lost in the fascia of the trachea and laryngeal cartilages. Another layer stops short63 at the jugular vein, and is reflected outward again, over the deep muscles of the vertebrae, so that no blunt instrument can be passed on toward the trachea, till this be ruptured. The carotid has a proper sheath distinct from this fascial covering. The platysmal fascia not only covers the neck, but it also dips down between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, communi- cating with that of the deeper muscles, particularly with the covering of the levator scapulae, and identifying itself with the deep cervical fascia. It passes deeply backward, over the cervical plexus, which it often obscures, and forward over the vessels. Therefore, although we make the distinction of superficial and deep fascia of the neck, yet, in one view, these, with all their prolongations, are continuations, the one of, and from, the other. It still remains to describe the state of the deep fascia at the under part of the neck. When the skin and platysma are removed, the myloid fascia, or intimate covering of the muscles on the laryngeal cylinder, is readily traced down to the sternum. On a level with the clavicle, or rather more than half an inch above the centre of the top of the sternum, it divides into two layers; one extends between the tendons of the two mastoid muscles, and connects them together, and passes over the face or outside of the sternum. The other goes within the top of the sternum, and end of the clavicle. It is inserted into the back of the top of the sternum and extre- mity of the first rib, and into the inner surface of the clavicle, as low down as the level of the sternum, that is fully half an inch, and is identified with the termination of the muscles in the bones of the thorax. It passes outward as far as the exter- nal margin of the sterno-thyroideus, and sends a layer both over and under the omo-hyoideus, binding it to the clavicle. On tracing this deep fascia from the thorax upward, we find it passing off from the border of the sterno-thyroid, and higher from the omo-hyoid, and going outward toward the trans- verse processes of the vertebrm. It covers the carotid and jugular, where these emerge from the border of the sterno-thy- louleus, and goes outward over the aponeurosis of the scalenus muscles. It thus covers not only the muscles on the tracheaG4 and os hyoides, bvit extends outward under the sterno-mastoid, and forms a continuation of that fascia formerly described, as being reflected from the under surface and posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid forward, and is therefore only now again noticed, on account of the firm covering it affords to the lower portions of the neck. On removing the platysma at the stei’- num, we cannot touch the muscles directly, but have this strong fascia, which adheres to them, and is implanted into their origins, interposed. Even, were they quite absorbed, neither the finger nor any thing else could directly touch the trachea or thyroid gland, nor pass down on the innomi- nata, far less into the thorax, till this fascia were torn or cut. But this is not the whole history of the strata here, for on cutting this, and dividing the sterno-hyoideus and thyroideus, we find that the inner surface of the thyroideus is lined with a thin fascia, which goes to the sternum. It there meets with the sheath of the vein and of the innominata, to which it adlieres, and is reflected upward from it over the trachea to the thyroid gland, where it sends a firm expansion below the gland, and a firmer layer over it, so as to include it in a kind of capsule. It at the sides extends upward over the carotid artery, and outward along the clavicle, and higher along the deep muscles, to the transverse processes of the vertebrse. It covers that part of the sheath of the vessels which is covered by the sterno-thyroideus, whilst tliat part which has emerged from this muscle, is covered, as already noticed, by the more external fascia which covers these muscles. This deep fascia is of great importance. We see that it both covers and lines the sterno-hyoidei, and thyi’oidei muscles; and when tlie mastoid is removed, it is seen spreading outward over the vessels, nerves, and levator scapulae. But it is at the clavicle that it is most necessary to attend to it. It is there, at the sternal end, identified with the sheath of the jugular vein, and then of the subclavian, and is reflected from their face to the inside of the clavicle, fixing them firmly there; and, till lacerated, preventing any thing passing down between them and the bone. It does not stop here, but is in like manner reflected from the face of the artery and nerves, and levator65 scapuhe, to the clavicle, so that, every where, the neck is shut out from the pectoral and axillary region. We cannot pass the finger from the one to the other, and the artery and nerves being covered by this, before it is reflected to the clavicle, we cannot touch the sheath of the artery, or insulate it from the nerves, till we cut through this covering, by an incision parallel to the artery, and between it and the nerves. This supra-clavicular fascia covers the omo-hyoideus, and all the vessels, save the external jugular vein, and everywhere shuts up the clavicular space. I must still mention, that this deep fascia, which we have seen dividing into two layers, one going down on the outside, and the other on the inside of the sternum, is connected even with the lining of the thorax. The pleura, at the sternum, seems to send off a layer to line the inside of the sternum, or it identifies itself with such a lining, whilst the main substance forms the mediastinum, and covers the pericardium. But were the deep fascia of the neck, merely lost either in this lin- ing, or in the reflection of the pleura over the pericardium, we should be able to pass the finger down, either before or behind the innominata, into the cellular substance on the mediastinum, and on to the pericardium itself. This we cannot do, for, the fascia, lining the sterno-hyoideus, &c. not only sends a reflection up, as we have seen, over the sheath of the innominata and on the trachea, which would shut up the parts here, but it also can be traced down, to communicate with the reflection of pleura covering the pericardium, which so joins with the sternal lining within the mediastinum, as to form a septum, also shutting up a direct communication from the neck. It is of importance to know that these parts are all connected, as we shall learn the hazard of inflammation of the deep fascia of the neck spreading to the thorax. From the account I have given, it will appear, that even although the muscles covering the trachea were cut, still we could not touch the trachea, for this layer which lines them, is still interposed, and between it and the trachea, is a consid- erable quantity of cellular substance, fatty matter, and vessels. This layer also prevents the finger from getting under the60 tlivided muscles into the thorax. We cannot even> to speak strictly, touch the sheath of the innominata, for this is reflected over it. We cannot, till we tear it, touch the pleura, for it is connected with the sternum, at the origin of the muscles, and is there pretty strong. The importance of this fascia, and of the outer one on the surface of the muscles, in suppurating glands and external sores, is great, both in confi.ning matter, and leading it in an unfavourable direction. But I have great doubt if tbe removal of the fascia, or an opening made in it, should have any effect in obstructing respiration. When this appeared to have been the case, I apprehend that more extensive changes within the thorax, or about the mediastinum, had taken place. Exposure of the trachea, in operations or experiments, does not produce for one moment any difficulty of breathing. I have just to notice another defence more or less distinct, in different cases, and deeper than any yet described. So high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, the common anterior ligament of the spine, is found to give off an expan- sion, sometimes strong and fibrous, and sometimes more delicate, which passes outward and downward beneath the trachea, over the longus colli, and under the scalenus, between it and the pleura, and becomes firmly attached to the upper margin of the rib, so that when this is strong, nothing can touch or press on the pleura, till it be cut The rib being placed obliquely, this expansion must form an oblique sheet, beneath which, we find the continuation of the pleura costalis, covering the lung and its proper pleura. The distance between the anterior margin of the scalenus and the trachea, is about an inch. As the lung extends as high as the first rib, and as tbe spinal end of this is an inch and a half above the top of the margin of the sternum, the lung reaches above that bone by tbe side, and it is necessary to have a defence for it, and an entire state of the thorax. This shelving sheet, with the pleura and lung, extend for about an inch above the clavi- cle, by the side of the windpipe, and it is deficient or per- forated at the middle or top, for the admission of the trachea, and veins and gullet, and the issue of the cai’otid and sub-67 clavian arteries j but it is so connected With these parts or their slieatlis, that, strictly, no opening exists; not even a pin point can, without rupturing a defence, touch the pleura or lung. When the covering I have described, cannot be traced from the spine, it is supplied by a layer from the deep cervical fascia. If this be altogether deficient, or be ruptured, then liernia of the lung may take place. Tliis may be produced by hooping-cough, or other means of compressing the thoracic contents. In a case lately brought to me for consultation, the hernia was complicated with an enlarged gland. The lung could be reduced, but whenever pressure was removed, or the child moved or cried, the tumour reappeared, and bolted up as high as the tliyroid cartilage. It produced some diffi- cidty of breathing. There was no pulsation communicated to the tumour. In such a case, it would be proper, first, to attempt to remove the disease of the gland, and diminish its swelling, and afterwards, by a mechanical contrivance, to endeavour to keep the lung in its place, in hopes that the passage might be obliterated. In a casual dissection, I found an indurated por- tion of lung, three quarters of an inch broad, extending up behind the carotid artery, for an inch and a half along its trunk. Water, also, not unfrequently, in cases of hydro- thorax, pushes the pleura up along the trachea, or outward along the course of the subclavian artery to the axilla. In a case of this kind, where, on account of exostosis of the arm, it was proposed to amputate at the shoulder-joint, the pleura should, in all probability, have been wounded, had the opera- tion been performed. In such extension of the pleura, there may be pulsation, owing to communicated motion, but this, by no means, necessarily takes places. If the fascial covering at the rib, here, be thin, we often find, that where air is disen- gaged after death, the pleura is forced up for an inch or more along the side of the trachea. The first branch given off from the arch of the aorta is the innominata, a large artery, which varies in length from rather less than an inch, to an inch and a half. It is rarely longer, and usually it is not much shorter. The aorta reaches to68 about six-tenths of an inch of the margin of the sternum. But in the natural state, it is sometimes a tenth more, whilst, on the other hand, it may ascend to merely three-eighths. The height of the origin of the innominata is the same with that of the aorta. The left margin, at its origin, sometimes corresponds to that of the trachea, and it rises up with that margin cor- responding to the left articulating sui'face of the sternum, and the right to tlie median line. In most cases, however, the left corresponds at its appearance, above the sternum, to that line. Its course being oblique, it cannot rise much above the ster- num. Its greatest elevation, is at its bifurcation into the carotid and subclavian, which tajkes place about the right sterno-clavi- cular articulation. The angle, between the two great branches, is seated at the right margin of the trachea. In some instances, the angle between them is a quarter of an inch more outward, and about the same height above the upper surface of the cla- vicle. In others, it is level with the upper margin of the cla- vicle, or even a quarter of an inch lower. It is quite impossible to say how high the oblique trunk of the innominata comes above the sternum, for there is a great variation in the obliquity of the artery, some, also, in its length and the point of bifur- cation. It may bifiu'cate on the face of the trachea, or even nearer the left side, level with the margin of the sternum; 01’, it may, before dividing, mount an inch and a half above the sternum, and its trunk, on the trachea, may be an inch above that bone. This, however, is rare, and most frequently the upper margin of the artery appears at the median line of the sternum, or a very little to the left side; consequently here it is level with the bone. When, as is not uncommon, it is a little to the left side, then, at the median line, from one half, to three-fourths, of the diameter of the artery is above the margin, and the course being oblique, it is soon all above it, emerging, more and more, as it passes to the right side. In this case, it may give off the carotid, level with the top of the clavicle, or even a little higher. The length of the artery, from the point where it appears at the sternum, to its bifurca- tion, is variable. It is sometimes only a quarter of an inch, sometimes five-eighths. It is of great importance to ascertain69 ihe elevation and length of the artery, if we ever contemplate the application of a ligature to it; for if the representation of plates be attended to, the student and operator will be led to expect to find the artery much higher than it usually is. The right subclavian vein runs obliquely down by the right margin of the artery. The left subclavian vein, or the vena innomi- nata, crosses the root of the vessel in front, lying between it and the sternum. Its upper margin sometimes ascends as high as the margin of the sternum, but often is half an inch behind it. The distance from the bifurcation of the innomi- nata, to where it is crossed by the vein, is usually only five- eighths’of an inch, but it may be nearly an inch. Both the artery and vein have, in the young subject, the thymus gland interposed between them and the sternum. It quite covers the artery even when it rises above the sternum, extending, at the age of three years, more than half an inch above the bone, and being broader than the trachea. It extends down- ward on the face of the vein, and then of the pericardium, its horn reaching to an inch and three quarters below the margin of the sternum, and the gland in the mediastinum is about two inches broad. We can easily see, then, the serious consequences which may be produced by swelling of this gland, not only to the trachea, but to the great vessels, and the action of the heart itself. At this age, the artery rises from the aorta about a quarter of an inch below the top of the sternum, and is not quite an inch long. Its upper margin is level with the upper surface of the clavicle. In the adult, the flat uninjected artery is fully half an inch in diameter; but when filled, so as to be made cylindrical without being distended, it often is an eighth of an inch less. The distance of the face of the artery from the surface varies with the elevation, and with the natural thickness of the top of the sternum, and depth of the trachea. The trachea is at least five-eighths of an inch, sometimes nine-tenths, back from the inside of the sternum; and it quickly goes farther back, so that it is, more or less, as the line or probe is inclined more or less down from the horizontal direction. It is also70 more, il well cleaned. Tlie face of the artery, must vary with the natural depth of the trachea, from the margin of the bone. If uninjected, it is sometimes three quarters of an inch from the margin ; if full, it may be half an inch, or less. The very margin of the bone, is a quarter of an inch thick, but it slopes or swells backward, so that very soon it is half an inch thick, and the sterno-hyoidei and thyroidei are not attached, strictly, to the very margin, but a little lower, and wiU appear more or less deep, according as we start more or less strictly from the margin. Their surface, when relaxed, is, in an adult male, about three quarters of an inch back from the face of the bone. They soon pass over the oblique innominata, and the artery here must be deeper from the face of the bone than the sterno-hyoidei and thyroidei, by the thickness of these muscles, and the cellular substance behind them, which connects them to the sheath of the vessel. If we examine just above the innominata, there is sometimes a thickness of more than half an inch between the muscles and the trachea. On dividing these muscles, we find that they are lined with a firm fascia, which goes down to the inside of the sternum and clavicle, and also sends a reflection up, over the face of the innominata, to the trachea and thyroid gland. Till this lining be cut, the artery cannot be touched, and even then it is in a sheath. Both the artery and the vein are in distinct sheaths, adherent, how- ever, to one another, and to the lining of the inside of the sternum. The sheath of the innominata divides, at the bifur- cation, into one for the subclavian, and another for the carotid artery. On slitting it open, the finger can then be pushed, along the vessel, to the aorta between the pleurae. The pleura comes up as high on each side, as the margin of the first rib, consequently ascends higher behind than before; and this oblique surface, whenever the vessels, &c. do not fill the space, is covered, as we have seen, by an expansion of fascia, which is intimately connected with the sheath of the vessels and trachea. So long as we keep withm the sheath of the innominata, we are in no danger of injuring the pleura. We also do not directly touch the great cardiac nerve, which, on the right side,71 passes oil along the innominata, as we shall afterwards see, and I beg the reader to connect, the account to be given of the cardiac nerves, with this detail. There is sometimes no innominata, the right subclavian coming off directly from the aorta. In one case, I found it arising from the aorta, after the left subclavian, and passing up, behind the oesophagus, to the right side, behind the right carotid, and thence to the scaleni muscles. From its greater depth, the right vertebral vein passed over, instead of behind it. The right carotid, came up over the trachea in the course of the innominata, but ascended higher on the front of the trachea. The innominata is rarely the original seat of aneurism, but it may become aneurismal by participating in the disease of other arteries, particularly in that of the aorta. In whatever way it is enlarged, it presses more or less on the trachea, and produces difficulty of breathing, with frequent exacerbations, or fits of suffocation, and sometimes pain in the right shoul- der. In one instance of this kind, where the previous his- tory led to the belief that the larynx was diseased, tracheo- tomy was performed, but, it is needless to say, without benefit, or even the slightest temporary rehef. The air passed slowly out and in by the aperture. On dissection, I understand the innominata was found considerably enlai’ged, and the left carotid participated in the disease. It is not necessary, that there should be a pulsating tumour, above the sternum, when the innominata is aneurismal, for, it may enlarge downwards, or laterally towai-d the right subclavian vein. If it rise above the sternum, then, the muscles are pushed out, and a pulsating tumour is formed. Mere pulsation above the sternum is no proof of aneurism, for in some people, the artery rises compa- ratively high, and is felt beating, but this is not common. Pulsation above the sternum, particularly in men, generally proceeds from enlargement of the aorta, which not only may ascend so high, but without doing so, may push the innomi- nata higher than usual. If the aneurismal sac extend rather by the side of the trachea, then it resembles aneurism of the lower part of the carotid. There are some lymphatic glands7^ on .the trachea beneath the sterno-thyroidei muscles. If these swell, they may receive communicated motion from the artery, but this is not generally the case. It is more likely to happen when they suppurate, and if so, the diagnosis is to be formed by the marks mentioned in the first volume. It is only when the subclavian, or the right carotid, are enlarged very near their origin, but the innominata healthy, that we can contemplate the operation of tying that vessel. This is not very difficult to perform, but exceedingly danger- ous in the result. If the carotid be enlarged so near its origin as to prevent our tying it below the aneurism, then, in place of operating on the innominata, it will be better to tie the carotid above the tumour. I know of no such case of carotid aneurism on record as would have warranted the ligature of the innominata. That operation, then, must be confined to the case of subclavian aneurism, extending so high as to pre- vent the ligature of that vessel itself. In this case, the opera- tion is performed by making a transverse incision through the skin, extending from a little beyond the right sterno-clavicular articulation quite to the left articulation. Next we cany the incision up along the anterior margin of the right mastoid muscle for about two inches. The platysmal fascia is then to be divided in the same extent, and especially at the lower part of the margin of the mastoid muscle. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles must then be cautiously divided, and the sternal portion of the mastoid muscle on the right side. We do not go deeper than the mere muscle, as some veins lie below it, which we ought not to touch. The incision may be made by cautious cutting, or by inserting a director close by the under surface of the muscle. This part of the operation being performed, we may draw out of the way any venous branches which appear; but the great vessels are still covered by fascia, and cannot be seen distinctly. Part of the carotid artery and internal jugular vein may be seen through the covering. Often, a branch from the thyroid gffind is con- nected by fascia to the jugular vein over the root of the carotid; but a little cautious dissection enables us to expose safely the lower part of the carotid, which is a good guide to73 the innominata. We ought not to disturb the carotid, or expose it more than merely to display its lower end, as near the bifurcation of the innominata as we can. As near to this as possible, we take hold of the sheath with a pair of dissect- ing forceps, and raise it, that we may make a small opening in it to admit a director. Tliis is to be gently slid on in the oblique direction of the artery, neither quite on its upper nor its anterior sui’face, but between them. Before we divide the sheath along tlie vessel, we must ascertain that no vein is in the way; for often a thyroid vein, as large as a goose quill, runs along the front of the trachea and across the innominata, to go to the vena innominata, or two branches cross the artery, and unite to enter the great vein. If these be met with, they must be drawn aside. Having slit the sheath, we must, if we find that the needle cannot be easily passed, divide it farther, and perhaps a little way up the carotid, to afford more room. The artery is then to be cautiously insulated from its sheath, partly by the blunt probe, and partly by the blunt needle, and we should go no lower than is necessary. In this part of the operation, it may be useful occasionally to have the head well bent back, as this elevates the artery more, and the same position will be proper in slitting the sheath or in exposing it,; but there is no occasion to have the neck permanently stretched, and it is quite unnecessary in the division of the skin and muscles. The ligature is, last of all, to be passed by means of Weiss’ instrument. This needle is to be introduced within the sheath, and kept close by the surface of the artery, neither pressing so much on it as to injure, far less tear or puncture it, nor allowing the point to recede, so as to pierce the sheath, and touch the parts which are in its vicinity. The left sub- clavian vein, or vena innominata, crosses in front of the artery, between it and the sternum. The right subclavian vein goes down by the right side of the artery. The great cardiac nerve goes down close on the sheath in the same course. The pleurae lie on each side, the trachea behind. So long as we open no part of the sheath but that which has been done by the scalpel or the director, we are safe; but both in the insu- lation of the artery and the passing of the needle, we must beon our guard. 1 he thx*ead being passed, the vessel is to be tied with sufficient firmness. Any vessel which bleeds during the operation should be secured, as soon as divided, by the ligature, if it be necessary; by pressure with the finger, if more incon- siderable. This not only saves blood, but prevents the parts from being obscured by blood. The dissection may also be facilitated by the use of curved blunt hooks, to draw the parts asunder. The operation being finished, the lips of the wound are to be kept together by adhesive plaster, over which we retain a pledget of lint by means of two broad slips of plaster. The neck should be kept relaxed. In performing the operation, it is of importance not to go farther down along the artery than is absolutely necessary, and to disturb the parts within the sternum as little as possible. The after-treatment must be con- sidered on general principles. I have only to add, that although the operation ought not to be difficult to an anatomist, yet any one who has not studied the parts shall be disappointed at the depth to which he will be obliged to go, even in exposing the sterno-hyoidei muscles, and there is under these a considerable quantity of cellular substance, with many small vessels. He will find the dissecting forceps of service in raising tliis; but he should not cut any of this out, if he can avoid it. The finger will be a good assistant to his eye in finding the vessel. The danger of this operation does not depend merely on the obstruction to the circulation, or the disturbance of the action of the heart, by tying a trunk so near it, nor on inflammation or suppuration in the wound, or injury of the nerves, but also in part on a cause which no care can pi’event, namely, the con- stitutional effect of tying an important artery (vol. I. p. 468). '^riie right carotid artery, comes off from the innominata at various heights and points, and resembles a continuation of the upper margin of the latter. Looking, therefore, at its tracheal margin, and at the oblique course of the innominata, we often find that its course should be described by a line drawn from the middle of the top of the stermmi to the angle of the jaw. In some instances, the whole diameter of the artery arises thus far median, the innominata bifurcating early. In general, however, the division takes place at the sterno-75 claviculiir articulation, just by the side of the trachea, higher or lower, according to the elevation of the innominata, being sometimes on a level with the top of the clavicle, in a few instances nearly an inch above it, sometimes a quarter of an inch below the level of the clavicle. From repeated observa- tions, I would say, that the bifurcation -takes place very near the sterno-clavicular articulation, seldom, if ever, more than a quarter of an inch outward from it, and very seldom more than that higher. If it bifurcate a very little on the median side of the articulation, the carotid, however low it may arise, is sometimes not fairly off the side of the trachea for an inch above the clavicle. The artery, when full, is not a quarter of an inch deep, or back fi*om the inner surface of the clavicle at the articulation. If collapsed, it may be nearly half an inch. It then comes a little more forward, and runs up to the bifur- cation nearly on the level of the inside of the clavicle. The left carotid, comes off directly from the aorta in a dis- tinct sheath, just at the root of the innominata, from half an inch to seven-tenths below the margin of the sternum, or above an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle; but if the parts be dissected, and the head bent back, the origin is brought nearly as high as the top of the sternum. It originates just at the margin of the trachea and side of the spine, and passes up partly on the margin of the oesophagus. It appears at the articulation; but sometimes it emerges from behind the cla- vicle nearly half an inch out from it, but oftener rather up from the side of the sternum. It lies here deeper than the right carotid, for it is, when collapsed, about three quarters of an inch back from the inner surface of the clavicle, less of course when filled. It bends forward, and soon is nearly on the same level with the right. If the parts be dissected, the left carotid will be found, half an inch above the clavicle, to be half an inch deep, or back, from the face of the trachea, whilst the right is only three-tenths, in some cases, not so much. An inch above the clavicle, the righi; is half an inch back, the left a tenth more; but these measurements must vary a little with the individual. At the cricoid cartilage, or even lower, there is no difference between the right and left. At this76 point, they may both be about an inch back, from the exposed face of the cartilage or trachea, and about half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle, in the average state of the parts. As the thyroid cartilage comes more forward, the artery is, if uninjected, an inch and three-tenths back from the fi'ont of the exposed thyroid cartilage. It is, when full, very little behind the posterior margin of the cartilage. If flaccid, it is three-tenths behind it, and half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle. The common carotid artery runs up the neck in the direc- tion of a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the angle of the jaw, but we follow this line only to the bifur- cation, opposite the hyo-thyroid space. This does not corre- spond in all its length to the margin of the mastoid muscle, for that, near the clavicle, comes more over the artery, and nearer the median line. For the upper three-fourths of the neck the artery may be exposed by cutting at the margin of the muscle, but in the under fourth the muscle must be partly separated from the bone to get at it. Tlie sterno-thjToideus, we have seen, shelves quite below the mastoid at the lower part. Higher up, the mastoid still lies a little over the mar- gin of the sterno-thyroideus, and sometimes even of the sterno- hyoideus. The omo-hyoideus passes more or less directly down on, and by, die side of the sterno-thyroideus, and very early is overlapped by the mastoid, under which it presently passes over the artery in its way to the scapula. Now the mastoid is at its anterior or tracheal margin, connected to these muscles by fascia, and we cannot raise that margin, or expose the artery, even after the platysma is cut, till this connexion also be divided. Till we descend to the lower fourth of the neck, sometimes even a little lower, the artery may be readily found by cutting parallel to the margin of the mastoid muscle, and pressing it back a little from the sterno-hyoideus and omo-hyoideus, and we therefore, in tying the artery about the middle of the neck, take the mastoid muscle as our guide in making the first incision. But the artery is not merely overlapped by that muscle, or covered by the deep fascia which connects that to the other muscles.77 It is also covered, in certain parts, by these muscles. This is well seen by raising entirely the mastoid muscle. We then find that the sterno-thyroideus, near the clavicle, becomes a little broader, and winds outward over the lower part of the carotid artery, becoming, by fascia, firmly attached to the clavicle, as if it arose from it. It is also attached to the inner surface of the sternum foi' more than an inch down, and likewise to the rib. In some cases, the sterno-hyoidei divaricate, so as to be connected, in front, by a firm angular portion of fascia, whilst the muscle is attached rather to the inside of the cla- vicle, about half an inch below its upper margin, than to the sternum, and it extends outward above half an inch from the articulation. The height, above the clavicle, to which the sterno-thyroid covers the carotid, varies, but it is fidly half an inch, in some cases an inch and a half, and as the under or anterior margin of the omo-hyoideus sometimes, where it crosses the carotid, comes considerably within an inch of the clavicle, that vessel may be covered by the united sheet of these muscles for nearly half-way up the neck. Tliis it is important to remember, and it is easily understood, for the omo-hyoideus often runs down at a very small angle, and, therefore, although its upper or outer margin, may begin to pass over the artery midway between the clavicle and angle of the jaw, yet it may not pass off from it till much lower, and the sheet of the muscle being often five-eighths of an inch broad, it may remain long on the face of the vessel. There is much uncertainty, however, in the extent of this covering, for, in some subjects, particularly when the muscles are slender, the sterno-thyroid does not sweep over the lower end of the carotid, and the omo-hyoideus, in place of descending so perpendicularly, and having a tendon, as I noticed when describing the muscle, making it digastric, may cross the artery quickly with its under margin nearly opposite the inferior end of the thyroid carti- lage. In other cases the upper margin crosses these. There is indeed gi*eat latitude. For instance, whilst writing this page, my son has examined the muscles in two subjects. In the 'one, a short-necked female, the upper margin crossed the artery two inches and a tenth, and the under, one inch and78 seven-tenths above the clavicle. In the other, a long-necked male, the upper margin crossed three inches and four-tenths, and the under, two and seven-tenths above the clavicle. It is sufficient that the surgeon be prepared to meet, in some of his operations, a muscular sheet, for he can easily, without divid- ing it, draw one or other of the margins aside, so as to get at the artery. I must next mention that the artery and veins are covered, besides, by an expansion of the deep fascia, and we cannot expose the proper sheath of the vessel till that be cautiously cut through. The common carotid is very constant in its relations. It runs up just by the side of the trachea and cartilages, oeso- phagus, and lower part of the pharynx. On the left side, it even lies on the very side or margin of the oesophagus. The jugular vein, at the lower part, is also closer to it than on the right side. On both sides it may be a little overlapped by the thyroid gland, and in both it lies in contact with the larynx and trachea. Its course is slightly oblique, bending a very little outward and also backward, for it is nearer the verte- brae in its course than immediately at its origin. It rests on the lateral part of the face of the bodies of the vertebrae, with the longus colli, sympathetic nerve, and fascia intervening. The internal jugular vein runs just by its outer margin, and, if much distended, even overlaps it a little. Each vessel has its own proper sheath, but, besides that, both are enveloped in a common cellular covering, like a sheath, and they are farther covered and fixed down by the deep cervical fascia, which extends over them from the trachea, larynx, and tube behind, to the transverse processes of the vertebrse. Between the artery and vein, contained in the common thin sheath, is the par vagum, or pneumo-gastric nerve, attached more to the vein than to the arteiy, and often hid by the vein when that is distended. About the ci'icoid cartilage a cardiac branch of this nerve comes off, and also runs down along the parent trunk, between it and the arterial sheath. This is most distinct on the right side. The sympathetic nerve runs down just behind the artery, which may be said to rest on it. It is behind the sheath of the artery, on the longus colli, in79 this part of the neck. A small deep-seated nerve comes off, high, from the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and runs down nearly parallel to, and generally to the inside, of the main trunk of the sympathetic, behind the artery, and by its outer margin. It is the superficialis cordis. A larger and more superficial nerve, lies also first behind, and then to the tracheal side of the artery, close by the tra- chea, and not immediately connected with the artery. It is the recurrent. The descendens noni runs down in front of the carotid by the inner margin of the jugular vein, adherent to the sheath, if not involved in its substance. Besides these nerves, small branches, from the sympathetic, encircle the carotid artery, subdividing on it very minutely, ^ so as to form almost a distinct coat. I will give presently a more particular account of the nerves of the neck. Exterior to the sheath is a chain of small glands, through which pass lymphatics, coming more particularly from tlie deeper parts of the head and face. They are found both before and behind the vessels, but are most numerous at the outer margin of the jugular vein, or partly on it. These, called glandulae con- catinatas, are not to be felt externally in health, and even in dissection are not prominent objects of attention. When I notice the lymphatic vessels on the right side, it will appear that there is no danger, to their trunk, in tying the carotid on that side, but on the left, the thoracic duct mounts up behind the carotid. This is very thin, and, when filled, is about a quarter of an inch in diameter. It ascends up from the sterno-clavicular articulation, with its inner margin parallel to that of the carotid, and mounts to about an inch, sometimes an inch and a quarter, above the clavicle. It then curves outward, so as to get to the outer margin, about an eighth of an inch lower, traverses the posterior surface of the jugular vein, and bending down by its outer margin to the angle formed by its junction with the subclavian, and there the duct enters, at about an inch and an eighth outward from the sterno-clavicular articulation, and nearly on a line with the lower margin of the clavicle. A deep cervical vein, often comes down by the outside of the jugular, and enters the80 subclavian almost along with the duct. Sometimes the duct divides at the margin of the jugular vein, into two branches, one, follows the usual course, the other, extends more outward on the scalenus muscle, and enters the subclavian vein behind the entrance of the external jugular. The duct lies on the longus colli. The recurrent nerve runs up by its inner margin and that of the carotid. If we separate, a little, the carotid and jugular vein, we see the ramus thyroideus ascending obliquely inward, the duct descending outwardly on its face, and cover- ing the axis thyroidea, or if that be a little more outward, the duct rests on the vertebral vein. The eighth nerve descends over both the duct and the ramus thyroideus. The sympa- thetic nerve also descends over the ramus and behind the duct. From this, it appears that the operation of extirpating a deep tumour above the left clavicle must be very dangerous, and that of applying a ligature to the carotid here, will require great care that the sheath be not pierced either at its sides or back. The needle must always be kept within the sheath. A mere puncture, or even a small slit-wound of the duct, might be expected to heal, if the neighbouring parts did not inflame much and involve it in disease ; but, on this point I have made no experiments. A lacerated wound, or a liga- ture, could not fail to be fatal; for, even w’hen it divides into two branches, it is a single trunk in the district of the carotid artery. It may be necessary to tie the carotid very near the clavicle previous to the extirpation of a large tumour in the neck, or in consequence of an wound, which leaves us no choice. But it is not advisable in cases of aneurism. In these, if the ligature require to be applied very low, it would be better to tie the artery, if possil^le, above the tumoui’, for aneurism of this vessel is better adapted tlian that of almost any other for such an operation; but even here, if the disease do not extend so near the clavicle as to render it unlikely that obliteration of the artery, below the ligature, shoidd take place, the vessel should be tied in the usual way. The common carotid is most easily exposed and tied, as it traverses the laryngeal cartilages. The operation is by no means difficult to perform, but it is often dangerous in its81 result. It is easy to see, from the general account given already, what parts are to be avoided, and how we are to pre- serve both the vein and the nerve in safety. An incision of about two and a half, or three inches long, should be made through the skin, in the direction of the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle, or just by the side of the larynx, begin- ning at the very top of the thyroid cartilage. This line has very little obliquity, being almost perpendicular. The inci- sion will be best made by having the neck stretched a little back, but after this, the neck ought not to be stretched. The only precaution necessary, in this stage, is to avoid the branch of the external jugular vein, which runs down under the pla- tysma myoides, sometimes along the margin of the mastoid muscle, but sometimes a little farther back. By merely divid- ing the skin first, and then sponging the wound, or pressing a little below it, the vein is seen, if it be in the way, and can be drawn backward. If not seen readily, the platysma should be divided slowly; and if still it do not appear, its course is, in such a case, farther back, and out of the tract of the inci- sion. No vein should be, for very evident reasons, unneces- sarily cut. Whenever the fascia of the neck and platysma are fairly divided, we have nothing but cellular substance to encounter, till we come to the sheath, if we except the omo- hyoideus, which is not very constant in its point of decussat- ing the artery. Having cut through the skin and fascia, the wound is to be sponged, and were the finger thrust directly down by the side of the thyroid cartilage, it must touch the artery. But this would be a coarse proceeding, and slight dissection, without any violence, exposes the vessel. The cellular substance connecting the sterno-mastoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, is to be as lightly divided. Then, by pressing the mastoid muscle a little outward, the finger readily descends by the side of the cartilages, or, slight working with the handle of the scalpel, aided at the most by one or two touches with the blade, exposes the sheath. In all this, there is nothing difficult, and yet it is possible to be awkward. It is possible to neglect the course of the mastoid muscle, and cut either it or the sterno-thyroid muscle, particularly the former,’ and82 then there may be digging and difficulty in the sequel. But if the mastoid be taken as a guide, or the incision be carried down by the side of the larynx, without directing the blade on the cartilages, or so much toward them as to wound the sterno-thyroid muscle, the vessel cannot be missed. There is another possibility still of going wrong, which is, that the incision being neatly made, and just between the muscles, the dissection is not px’osecuted perpendicularly or directly down by the side of the cartilage, but rather obliquely outward, tending under the mastoid muscle, which will lead the opera- tor away from the artery altogether, and he will come on the vein, or even get beyond it. It is also necessary to recollect, that sometimes .a pretty large lateral thyroid vein, passes from the gland, across the carotid artery, to the internal jugular vein, and this is sure to be divided, if the operator be inat- tentive. When the muscles are separated, the sheath does not always appear; but there is exposed a sheet, more or less broad, of muscular fibre, going obliquely down over the vessel. This cannot be any part of the sterno-thyroid, for it is deeper, and that muscle has already been passed. It is the omo- hyoideus, which is descending more or less obliquely, according to the height at which we have exposed it, and its obliquity in the individual. It is to be either drawn inward toward the trachea with a blunt hook, or upward and outward, according to circumstances. The thin expansion of fascia which passes over the vessel is now exposed, and this is to be divided by first raising it a little by the dissecting forceps. The sheath is now distinctly seen, and is to be opened by raising it with the forceps from the face of the artery. By doing this, quite on the front of theartery, we are sure to be clear ol the eighth nerve. By sponging the part dry and clean, we see that we are clear of the descendens noni, which is rather to the outside of the artery, sometimes exterior to, sometimes enveloped in, the substance of the sheath. The sheath being opened, is to be slit up for half an inch with the scalpel, either by still holding it with the forceps, or by introducing a probe or director into the opening already made. The artery is to be fairly and cleanly exposed within the sheath for about half an inch. The outside of88 the sheath, the eighth nerve and vein, lie to the outside of the exposed artery, and the aneurism needle is to be intro- duced close by the substance of the artery on its outside, and carried close under it, and up on the tracheal side, where it often pushes a little cellular substance before its point. This is to be cut through, and the needle carried on, so as to allow the thread to be caught hold of. One well waxed thread is sufficient. It is to be tied with moderate tightness; one end is then to be cut off, and the wound brought together more solito. The operation is simple, but requires attention to the following particulars: that the incision be made exactly by the margin of the mastoid muscle, the course of which has been described; that we neatly separate the expansion which connects this with the sterno-thyroid, which shelves a little under the mastoid; that we then press these a little asunder, and cautiously go directly back, as it were, to the vertebrae, without inclining outward or inward, till we come to the deep expansion of fascia, which is to be divided; that the sheath be fairly opened; that the artery, for a sufficient space, be quite and cleanly exposed on its front and outer side ; that this be done by keeping always close to the vessel; that the needle be introduced in absolute contact with the artery, and kept so that it may not rupture the sheath behind, and injure, by laceration or rubbing, the sympathetic nerve; that it be brought up in contact with the vessel, and within the sheath at the tracheal side, that it may not injure any of the nerves; in short, that nothing but the bare vessel be included. It should literally and truly be the bare vessel; for if any nerv- ous twig be included, serious consequences may ensue. The coats are not indeed to be scraped so as to injure them, but the vessel is to be cleanly dissected, for the breadth of the needle, from any connexion, and from loose cellular covering, to diminish the risk of including any little branch from the sympathetic. The operation is easily performed, but it is not free from much danger, not imm^iate, for of that there IS none. The fear of haemorrhage, which was the bugbear to the best surgeons of the old times, is now banished, for the operation may be performed without the loss of two ounces of84 blood. We are not afraid of the brain suffering from want of blood, neither does our apprehension arise, in ordinary cases, from the chance of secondary haemorrhage. The opera- tion may be well performed, and the wound may adhere, and yet there is great hazard; for, as in other cases where large arteries are tied near the heart,'an acute attack of fever may come on, with pain or oppression about the chest, obscure or distinct, and in spite of bleeding, purging, blisters, and opiates, the patient dies. Pus is found in the mediastinum, or on the pleurae, and generally the inner surface of the artery towards the heart is inflamed, though sometimes it is quite sound. The ligature of any large or important artery, especially near the heart, is not free from danger to the constitution; but in tying the carotid, there is the additional risk to be appre- hended from the effect on those minute twigs w'hich are con- nected with the vessel, and the inclusion of which, in the liga- ture, may affect the parts to which the nerve is distributed. This has led me to the advice of cleaning the vessel; but even then the operation is not safe in proportion to its sim- plicity, and ought never to be performed unless life be at stake. I need not add, that great care is to be taken in passing the needle behind the vessel, not to rub on the symypathetic, and also that the eighth nerve is to be drawn aside with gentleness. There are still two remarks I have to make on the opera- tion. The first is, that we are told that the jugular vein alter- nately swells and collapses during respiration, so, as in the first state, to cover or hide the artery, and require great care lest it come on the knife and be cut. But, if the incision go directly down on the course of the artery, this is so far from being the case, that the vein is scarcely to be seen. It lies quite to the outside of the arteiy, and there it remains, without those sudden expansions we are taught to expect. The artery may be exposed and tied in this part of the neck, and the vein scarcely seen by the operator. In a few instances, I grant, the vein does naturally hang over the artery (when it is distended in the dead subject), but not even then to the degree represented; and if the sheath of the carotid be opened, and that of the vein left untouched, the septum which is85 between them does really prevent the vein from turning so much on the artery. The second remark is, that the artery is to be found in the living, very much as it is in the dead, subject, not by its motion or pulsation, so much as by its posi- tion. The experienced surgeon knows this, but the young operator expects to see the artery beating in the bottom of the wound, or to feel its pulsation, strong, in proportion to its size. Whatever may happen in peculiar cases, he shall gene- rally be disappointed. He sees the artery lying where it should lie, but much quieter than he expected; and when he puts his finger on it to be sure that it is the artery he is going to insulate, he feels but slight pulsation. The pulsation and motion are more distinct after the ligature is applied. When the artery requires to be tied lower than the point I have supposed, the incision may still be made in the same way; but, after the mastoid muscle is separated from the sterno-hyoideus, with which it is more connected here, the neck must be bent a little forward, to relax the muscle, and enable us to pull it somewhat outward. The other steps of the operation are the same as formerly. If the omo-hyoideus come in the way, it can be drawn aside in the direction most favourable. The descendens noni is now a little more on the tracheal side of the artery. If we have to tie it near the cla- vicle, then, as the mastoid comes forward to the sternum, it will be necessary to consider whether we shall require, after making the external incision in the course of the artery,—that is, in the direction of a line from the sterno-clavicular articu- lation to the angle of the jaw,—to cut across and raise the sternal portion of the muscle, or leave this, and divide out- waid the clavicular portion, or go directly down between them, in a line up from the articulation, and draw the portion asunder. In either of the two first modes, we must attend to two branches of the external jugular vein, one going down by the anterior, another by the posterior margin of the muscle. 1 his muscle being disposed of, we have still the artery covered near the clavicle with a muscular sheet, formed by the sterno- hyoideus and thyroideus. The first is often connected more with the clavicle than even the sternum, being sometimes86 inserted into the inside of the former for more tlian half an inch out from the articulation. The second often extends as far, or farther, particularly if the first go less out. One, or both, may not only cover the artery, but also the greatest part, or the whole of the vein, and the margin, often, is flanked by that of the omo-hyoideus. W^e have, therefore, a sheet of muscle, fortified by fascia, to divide, before we can expose the sheath of the artery. The recurrent nerve passes up obliquely behind the artery, and the eighth and sympathetic are close by its outer margin, at its origin from the innominata on the right side. The cardiac nerves are also very near it, and often the jugular so covers it, at least the inner half of its diameter, as to require to be cautiously detached and drawn outward. The inferior thyroid artery passes obliquely up be- hind the carotid. The vertebral, runs parallel to the carotid, but deeper, and about half an inch more outward, covered by its corresponding vein, which is just at the inner margin of the scalenus, partly covered by the jugular vein. On the left side, we have the thoracic duct behind the artery; but so long as we take care to open the sheath fairly, and keep the needle within it close by the artery, we are safe. We never willingly tie an artery near the giving off of another large one, and, there- fore, nothing but absolute necessity can make us apply a liga- ture to the right carotid very near the clavicle; that is, in the immediate vicinity of the origin of the subclavian artery. But on the left side we may tie it lower than on the right, as the carotid there rises from the aorta an inch below the upper surface of the clavicle. The carotid artery divides into the external and internal, at the top of the thyroid cartilage or the hyo-thyroid space, at a distance from the angle of the jaw, varying with the position of the head. When fully bent back, it is about an inch and three quarters below the angle. The trunk, at the bifurcation, is about three-tenths of an inch, back, from the margin of the thyroid cartilage. Its depth from the surface will depend on the fatness and muscularity of the subject. The external carotid lies partlv over the internal, but still about one-third of the latter projects to the outside, and the distinction between the87 two, in the uninjected state, which most resembles that met with in operations, is marked by a slight sulcus up to the digastric muscle, or the crossing of the lingual nerve. There, the inter- nal winds a little more backward, and the external goes more directly upward, or even a little forward. In some cases, however, the external is really quite to the outside of the internal at the bifurcation. But it does not quite hide the internal, viewed from the side. Its posterior margin, only over- laps, the anterior one of the internal. It, in this case, may be in contact with the internal jugular vein. On exposing the arteries at the angle of the jaw, and pressing up the digastric, the external is first seen, or is farthest forward, and then the internal behind it, and a little to its outside. They run at least three quarters of an inch'parallel to one another, before they reach the lingual nerve. The breadth of the two carotids, at the angle of the jaw, is five, and of them, and the full jugular vein, nine-eighths of an inch. The bifurcation may generally be three or four-tenths of an inch back from the edge of the thyroid cartilage, and if the mastoid muscle ,be thick, it is about seven-tenths deep from, or median of the face of that muscle; but nearer the angle of the jaw, the external carotid may be only four-tenths deep from it. The two carotids ought rather to be named anterior and posterior, than external and internal, for they ai’e situated obliquely in that relation to each other. The internal is also at first often a little more external, that is, more lateral than the external. The two vessels ascend nearly parallel, and bear a uniform relation to the bone. The external, passes on the outside of the styloid process, the internal, on its inside. In general, the point of the process indicates the spot where the external carotid passes; and by feeling in an wound or incision for the point, we are sure to feel the artery, and by pressing down the styloid muscles, we may, if necessary, tie the artery thus high. Now, there are points both in the bones and muscles, which mark these vessels and their relations. We have seen that the division takes place at the top of the thyroid cartilage, and the two arteries are presently crossed by the digastric and88 stylo-hyoideus, and the ninth nerve. The facial artery passes under these muscles, and winds forward to the submaxillary gland. On exposing the muscles, the digastric is found lowest, and immediately above it, the more slender stylo-hyoideus, adhering to it by cellular substance, and by pressing these muscles up, the arteries are exposed, or by sinking the finger above them, we immediately touch the point of the process, over which the external carotid passes. It passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoideus, and over the point of the pro- cess. If, again, we go more backward, and press toward the spine, we feel the transverse process of the atlas, over the front of which important parts pass. If the finger be sunk obliquely behind the head of the mastoid muscle, about full half an inch higher than the angle of the jaw, and for about five-eighths of an inch deep, the front of the transverse pro- cess is felt. At the very extremity of this front, covered by tlie digastric near its origin, is the internal jugular vein. The pneumo-gastric nerve goes down just on the inside of the vein, and overhung by it, and the internal carotid lies to the inside of this, or rather, we may say, it lies to the inside of the vein, being overhung by it, the nerve lying between them, and partly covered by the artery. The ganglion of the sympa- thetic nerve is still more inward than the pneumo-gastric nerve, and is quite covered by the artery, which lies on it. At this part, crossed by the digastric, we have, lying in con- tact with, and nearly parallel to, one another, in succession as we go inward, the jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the two carotids covering the ganglion, and on the surface of these parts we have, coming down as if betwixt them, the lingual nerve, which descends parallel with them till near the angle of the jaw, where it crosses the face of the external carotid artery. All these important parts, in the undistended state of the vessels, are found in a space little more than five- eighths of an inch broad, and at about the same depth from the jaw. The superior laryngeal nerve, about the size of a thick thread, passes obliquely between the ganglion and the two carotids. The veins are by no means regular in their course, and I refer, for the present, to the account given89 hereafter of them. I only remark, that veins always accom- pany the artery, and also cross it, sometimes at the bifurca- tion of the common carotid, sometimes more than half an inch higher, and occasionally a large branch crosses on the inside of the artery. The tract of the external carotid, is marked by a line drawn from behind the superior horn of the thyroid cartilage, to the back of the angle of the jaw, and this corresponds nearly to the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle. In some instances, the external carotid runs a little more forward, its line being directed to the angle, if not a little before it, but, reaching the angle, it winds backward. The artery goes somewhat obliquely upward and backward from the angle, so that it is longer covered by the digastric and stylo-hyoideus. Five- eighths of an inch of the artery are thus covered by them, for it passes up on their inside, but on the outside of the styloid process, sometimes crossing it at its point, sometimes half an inch back from it, according to the length of the pro- cess. In its tract up, from the bifurcation, to where it meets the digastric, which is usually at the angle of the jaw, though sometimes nearly a quarter of an inch either above or below it, the artery is about the tenth of an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle, and generally the length of this part of the artery, when the head is level, is about five- eighths of an inch; but by bending the head back, it is increased to three quarters. The outer face of the digastric is about four-tenths inward from the exact margin of the angle of the jaw, and the artery, when it is passing within the under margin of the muscle, may be about seven-tenths inward from the margin. It becomes more superficial as it ascends, for when it emerges above the stylo-hyoideus, it is, from barely a quarter, to half an inch deep, from the margin of the ramus, and more than an inch from the skin covering the mastoid process. It emerges from the stylo-hyoideus about five-eighths of an inch above the angle, but sometimes lower, sometimes three quarters above the angle, according to the size and obliquity of the muscle. The external carotid artery, passing on the outside of the90 styloid process, must also be on the outside of the styloid expansion, or behind it, the expansion being obliquely placed. The parotid gland rests on this expansion. The artery mounts up between the gland and expansion. It meets the gland just after it has passed the digastric, but the gland rather lies there on_ the artery, than is penetrated by it. It gets involved in the substance of the gland, about three-fourths of an inch above the angle, or at a line nearly horizontal from the end ,of the mastoid process. It passes or rises above the upper margin of the digastric, about five-eighths above the peak of the angle of the jaw. It gets behind the muscle immediately after giving off the facial. What is called the stylo-myloid ligament passes down within the digastric in front of the artery. The order of the parts here, at the angle of the jaw, if traced upward and inward, is, first the digastric, then the stylo-hyoideus, then the carotid artery, the glosso-pharyngeus, stylo-pharyngeus, and stylo- glossus; and the stratum on which these rest is the constrictors. The external carotid artery may be tied either above or below the digastric muscle; whether it ever be expedient to tie it in the first situation, may afterwards be considered. But, first, let me describe how the artery may be exposed between its origin and the angle of the jaw. For this purpose, an incision must be made through the skin and cellular sub- stance, from a finger’s breadth above the angle, and between the jaw and the mastoid muscle, down to a little below the top of the thyroid cartilage. This will run along the margin of the mastoid muscle. The platysma being exposed, we look for the posterior external jugular vein, and see that it is not in the way; if it be, we draw it aside, generally forward, and dissect a little down in front of the mastoid muscle. This is done cautiously, so as not to divide any vein which may be avoided. We go deepest near the angle of the jaw, to expose as our guide the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Hav- ing found this, we clear a little its inferior margin, and run the eye down from the back of the ramus of the jaw, to the back of the horn of the thyroid cartilage. We cut cautiously in this line, which is the course of the artery, for if we cut at91 once, we divide parts we ought not to touch. If we intro- duce the finger directly in, that is transversely, in front of the margin of the mastoid muscle, its point touches the artery. If directed a little backward, then, the nail is covered by the muscle, and the point rests on the internal carotid. The inter- nal jugular vein lies behind the artery; that is, a little farther back. The external jugular lies in front of the artery, and more superficially. I cannot say how the various branches may be placed in any particular case, but usually the facial vein unites in front of the external carotid, either with the continuation of the maxillary vein, which passes down close by the anterior margin of the artery, or with one a little more superficial coming down from the parotid gland, and passing by the pos- terior margin of the artery. These often join, on the face of the digastric muscle, but may also keep distinct. In either case, the union generally forms an external jugular vein, wliich is connected by a large, but short cross branch, to the internal jugular, or, frequently, these veins directly end in this. In either case, we have the external carotid crossed by a large vein, sometimes so low as at its origin, but gene- rally a little higher, or even near the angle of the jaw. When the lingual vein does not join with the pharyngeal or the posterior facial, it usually enters directly into the inter- nal jugular, and runs sometimes a little higher than the cross branch described, but often within it, or covered by it. What- ever the distribution is, then, we have the external carotid crossed, higher or lower, by at least one vein, also by the lingual nerve. An accompanying vein lies close in front of the artery, and another behind it, and in certain cases, the artery is in contact with the internal jugular vein. From the bifurca- tion of the common carotid artery, to the under margin of the digastric muscle, measures only, even when the head is bent back, three quarters of an inch, or nearly a quarter less if it be quite erect. This venous distribution, then, must cover much of the artery. The thyroid comes off at the origin of the artery; the laryngeal nerve comes out from within the carotid, about midway between the giving off of this branch, and the crossing of the lingual nerve, which, on92 the face of the carotid, gives off its thyroid ramus. The tfiy- roid vein comes up to the internal jugular, and often joins the lingual. In other cases, the lingual itself crosses the artery more than half an inch above the bifurcation. The lingual artery comes off either separately, or by a trunk common to it, and the facial, about a quarter of an inch above the bifurca- tion ; and in the latter case, the common trunk is nearly as large as the carotid, and runs up parallel to it for some way. If the facial come off separately, it is a little higher. Then we have to attend to the occipital and pharyngeal arteries running parallel to the trunk, and the internal carotid and internal jugular vein are not to be overlooked. From this view of the parts, it is quite evident that no part of the external carotid, up to the digastric muscle, is insulated from important parts. We could, indeed, by raising the lower part of the parotid gland a little, and drawing down the digastric and stylo-hyoideus, expose the artery higher, but even there it is connected with accompanying veins. Two branches often lie obliquely before it, and one partially over it. About this place also, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve lies on its inside, interposed between it and the stylo-pharyngeus. Were it perfectly easy to tie it, still the operation, in most cases, would be useless, for the ligature is applied above the facial artery, and the anastomoses, in all probability, would keep up the circulation sufficiently to render the effect, of the high ligature, in restraining haemorrhage very doubtful. If, next, we revert to the portion below the digastric, we must, for the same reason, confine our operation to the spot below the origin of the facial artery. The greatest space of the external carotid which may be tied is that between the thy- roid and lingual arteries, or about three-tenths of an inch, and, there, the artery is covered with veins, and traversed also by nerves; yet, on the whole, it is the best place to tie it. When the facial comes olf high, as, for instance, at the angle of the jaw, then the external carotid is more easily tied, and the best place would be between the origin of the lingual and facial, and the interval is sometimes half an inch, or even more. The artery is accompanied, but not often covered, by93 veins here. But it is evident that the recommendation of this spot arises from the high origin of the facial artery, which comes off within the digastric. Now this never can be known in any one case to exist, and is so uncertain, that it can scarcely bias our opmion of the operation. If the operation is to be performed, when we have proceeded so far in the dissection as I have described, the external jugular is next to be drawn forward, the internal pressed back, and the cross branch raised a little up, unless on trial we find it better to depress it. The lingual nerve will be pressed up with this vein. Hav- ing exposed the situation of the artery, by attending to the tract already described, we sponge the bottom of the wound, that we may better see the sheath. This is to be gently laid hold of by a pair of slender forceps, and drawn a little off the face of the artery. Having scratched it through, it can be slit a little farther on a probe, and the artery insulated, but no sharp instrument is to be employed in doing this, or pass- ing the ligature, as we have seen that there are many import- ant parts in close contact with the artery. Even an injury of the pharyngea would be very troublesome. We are not in much danger of mistaking the internal for the external caro tid, but when the hngual and facial arteries arise by a common trunk, that may be mistaken for the carotid. Now, nothing is easier, than to expose and tie the artery at the spot where it, in most cases, would be proper to apply the ligature, in the dead subject, where we have no haemorrhage, and every facility for dissecting. But if the veins be well filled, and the artery uninjected, or even injected, we find the parts a little more difficult to unravel, and the ligature not so easily applied. In the living subject, the difficulty is more; some bleeding may obscure the parts; we must proceed cautiously, lest vein or artery be injured; the depth is greater than an inattentive dissector believes. To reach the artery, we must, independent of the skin, go nearly half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle; interposed veins occupy part of the space, and often lymphatic glands come in the way. This depth and these interpositions may appear of little importance, but in so small a space, they are not to be disre-94 gardetl. It may be said, extend the incision, and this undoubt- edly will facilitate the operation; but we must remember, that we are cutting a living, and not dissecting a dead body. I would, therefore, say, that unless in a very special case, or where some peculiarity in a projected operation evidently points out the propriety of tying the external carotid, it will be better to apply the ligature to the common carotid; and as to the danger of injuring the carotid plexus, or network of the nervi molles, that is just as much in the one case as in the other. The Internal Carotid is often at first a little more external and more lateral in the neck, but goes behind the external as it is passing under the digastric. At the under margin of the muscle both carotids are nearly of the same depth, but presently the internal goes more inward to get within the styloid process, and there, in those cases where the external is barely a quarter of an inch deep, it is more than half an inch. There is about a quarter of an inch of difference between the two. The styloid process, varies in length, from an inch to an inch and a quarter. Its root is a little higher than that of the condyle of the occipital bone, and is immediately in front of the under part of the bony ring of the meatus auditorius, or behind the root of the condyle of the jaw. It passes obliquely downward and forward, and its course is nearly equidistant from the inside of the ramus of the jaw and the front of the end of the atlas. It descends, for nearly half an inch, parallel to the ramus, and is about three-eighths of an inch distant from the ramus, but is sometimes a little nearer at its point, which, in an adult with teeth, often reaches to moi’e than one-fourth of an inch farther forward than the posterior mar- gin of the jaw, and about three-fourths above the lower margin of the jaw-blade. When the jaw is opened to its greatest extent almost the whole of the process projects within it, whilst in the child, and toothless old man, no part projects. The posterior margin of the ramus and the process intersect one another at, from three quarters to seven-eighths of an inch, from the root of the process, according to the obliquity of the95 latter and the projection of the jaw. When the finger is introduced into the mouth and carried behind the velum, and then directed outward, the end of the process is felt very distinctly. The sharp anterior edge of the transverse process of the atlas is about seven-eighths of an inch higher than the mar- gin of the jaw-blade, and the foramen caroticum is about two inches higher than that, and five-eighths higher than that part of the styloid process which traverses a line perpendicular from it. This line falls about five-eighths inward from the ramus of the jaw, and very nearly in front of the sharp edge of the transverse process of the atlas. The tract of the internal carotid, is in a line, up from the margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the end of the mastoid process. It passes behind the stylo-hyoideus and digastric muscles, and gets a little more median or deeper, and lies close behind the stylo-pharyngeus. It mounts up on the inside of the styloid process, as the external does on the out- side, and, like it, crosses it not always at the same part, some- times at the point, sometimes near the root, according to the obliquity and length of the process; and often the two carotids pass very nearly in the same line, the one on the outside, the other on the inside, the internal generally, however, farthest back. It passes behind the tonsil, at the side of the pharynx, and disappears, behind the opening of the eustachian tube, close by the spine. It runs up about two-tenths of an inch back from the line of the ramus of the jaw. It lies close on the vertebrae, and not so much in contact with the process as the external is. The internal jugular vein runs up by its outer margin, and partly hides or overlaps it. When the artery is injected its outer margin corresponds nearly to the front of the end of the atlas. If the finger be introduced into the mouth, and carried back, it feels the atlas, if pushed laterally, it can feel a probe introduced into the internal carotid, lying on the latero-pos- terior region of the pharynx. If pushed a little lower, and still more outward, it feels, below, the external carotid alittle farther down the process, more or less, according to its obliquity. If it should ever be necessary to tie the internal carotid, the incision is to be made in the same way as for the external, and the same precautions used. The vessel is found a little farther back, more in contact with the internal jugular vein, and hid by it, the sympathetic nerve behind it, the occipital artery, phai*yngea, and lingual nerve more or less in front of it. These, with the external carotid, must be drawn forward, the jugular vein pressed back, and the sheath fairly slit. Just at the division of the carotids a small branch is given off, which mounts directly upward between the external and internal. It is the ascending Phaiyngeal, and is chiefly dis- tributed to the pharynx, but it can be traced up to the very base of the skull, entering the foramen lacerum, and also by the side of the ninth nerve to the dura mater. It is not seen till we draw forward the external carotid, when it is at once exposed, close by the artery, and lying between the pharynx and rectus major anticus. It sometimes comes off by a com- mon trunk, with the occipital. A probe introduced into it may be run up to the cuneiform process of the occipital bone. It will pass, before the ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, up toward the eustachian tube. The first branch of the external carotid is large, but smaller than the facial, and is named the Thyroidea superior. It is in many respects a most important artery, for, owing to its size, wounds of it inflicted by the suicide, are often mortal. It comes off just opposite the top of the thyroid cartilage, or between it and the os hyoides. One branch immediately passes off from its upper face, and runs forward between the os hyoides and cartilage to the hyo-thyroid membrane. It is nearly as large as the barrel of a crow-quill, and is named the laryngea. It comes to the membrane just at the top of the horn, runs down close by its front, and forward from its root, along the upper margin of the cartilage and under the membrane. The laryngeal nerve reaches the top of the horn at the same place, and runs down before, and then forward above the artery, and97 also under the membrane. The vein is higher than the arterj' and the nerve, and generally enters the lingual. The artery sends a few twigs on the surface of the membrane, but it is chiefly distributed within. It goes to the mucous membrane and small muscles. A minute gland sometimes lies on the membrane and over the nerve. Tliis hyo-thyroid gland, is so far from being regularly met with that I have seldom found it. But I have twice seen it diseased. In one case, which is related by my brother, the disease was of a malignant nature, and had formed so extensive connexions that no opera- tion could be performed. Both the breathing and swallowing were much affected. In the other case, the gland was as large as a hazel nut, and so bound down, by tlie muscles, that it affected the breathing, and somewhat the speech. It was removed, after making an incision across the muscles, but the laryngeal artery not being secured by the operator, blood was effused, and the membrane pressed so much in, as to threaten suffocation. By opening the wound, removing the coagulum, and tying the vessel, the cure was speedy. The artery is easily found by its relation to the horn, but we must be care- ful not to include the nerve. The laryngeal artery, is not to be confounded with another smaller branch, which comes off also from the thyroid, and runs higher towards the horn of the os hyoides. It passes under the hyo-thyroid muscle and into the membrane. A superficial branch from the lingual artery traverses the os hyoides. Other branches of the thy- roidea are given off, more irregularly, to the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoideus, &c., but the main trunk winds downward, and then forward on the thyroid cartilage to the gland. It is found by sinking the finger in, at the top or level of the car- tilage, and, the carotid not being united closely to the carti- lage, the length of the thyroid, between the carotid and carti- lage, is about one-fourth of an inch. It is found exactly at the extremity of the horn of the os hyoides, where it comes down, passing either just behind the horn of the thyroid cartilage or over its tip. It comes in contact with the cartilage quite at its upper peak, and there it is covered with the deep fascia of the neck. It lies at first on the constrictor, immediatel}'98 before the carotid, and descends, in contact with it, and par- allel to it, till it touch the cartilage, the upper angle or horn of which, is sure to lead to the very spot where the artery is situated. The artery having reached the cartilage passes under the sterno-thyroideus, by the posterior margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle, and divides into branches, both for the muscles and the gland; but we may notice, that one division enters the gland from its upper corner, going first a little way between it and the cartilage. Another large branch, passes down by the posterior margin of the lobe and anastomoses with the inferior thyi'oid. A third, in like manner, traverses the anterior margin of the lobe, and meets in front the one Irom the other side. Thus, the gland is generally skirted before and behind, by a branch involved in its substance, ramifying in it, and mixing with the branch first noticed. Another branch, and that not a small one, sometimes rather the trunk of the artery, passes under the sterno-hyoideus, then obliquely over the hyo-thyroideus, and along the margin of the crico-thyroideus, till it meet the corresponding branch from the other side; or, at the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, it often divides into two branches; one, goes back- ward, along the margin of the cartilage, under the sterno- thyroideus ; another, forward along the margin to meet the one from the other side. It appeai-s, then, that this branch may cross higher or lower, but it rarely fails to cross; some- times it is at the margin of the thyroid, or of the cricoid, car- tilage, or on the crico-thyroid membrane. In the operation of laryngotomy we should be careful not to cut the margin of the crico-thyroid muscle, or to go too near either cartilage. If the artery run on the membrane, it may, if we clean it with the sponge, before piercing it, be in all probability avoided. If opened, it must be tied before entering into the crico-thyroid portion of the larynx. When the superior thyroid is wounded near its origin it bleeds furiously. It is commanded, by pressing the point of the finger in, between the horn of the cartilage, or the hyo- thyroid space, and the carotid artery. It is there we look for the jet of blood if the circulation be strong, or the feeblerflow if the person be faint. By pressing back the margin of the w'ound the artery is easily taken up. If we wish to expose the trunk of the thyroidea, and to tie it, we make an incision parallel to the margin of the mastoid muscle, between that and the thyroid cartilage, and extending from the horn of the os hyoides to the middle or end of the cartilage, according to the fatness of the patient. We take care of every vein which may be superficial. The fascia, connecting the mastoid muscle to those before it, is to be divided, and the cellular substance behind the horn of the os hyoides and the cartilage, between them and the carotid, slightly dissected. If the finger now be sunk in, just behind the horn of the os hyoides, or at the top of the thyroid horn, it will touch the artery, but not bare, for it is still covered by a thin expansion of fascia, which connects it to the horn. This is to be raised by the forceps, and divided. The artery is then exposed, and may be drawn forward by a blunt needle. It is sometimes, in a manner, covered by its corresponding vein, but is generally a little higher at this spot. It may, however, be covered by the facial vein, or the trunk, in which it ends, and contri- butes to form. The thyroid nerve, coming off from the lingual, often lies, if not actually on the artery, at least along its upper margin, and passes with it under the muscles. We should therefore insulate the artery. In this operation, the skin, margin of the mastoid muscle, and carotid artery, may be gently drawn back by a blunt hook or curved spatula, whilst the horn and posterior margin of the cartilage are drawn forward, and a little outward, by another hook; but this must be lightly done, else the breathing is alfected. Immediately above the thyroid, the carotid usually gives off, just at the horn of the os hyoides, an artery, which turns over the lingual nerve and descends on the neck, supply- ing, in particular, the mastoid muscle. It has been named the mastoidea. Ihe next branch is large, and arises usually a very little above the horn of the os hyoides. ‘Its origin, is sometimes more than half an inch above the bifurcation, but generally It IS about a quarter. I have seen it arise below the thyroid,lOU hook round that artery, and run on, above the hyo-glossus. V’^ery often it arises, by a common trunk, with the facial, at various heights, and this trunk ascends sometimes quite par- allel to the external carotid, sometimes at a very considerable angle. It passes on the constrictor medius, under the digas- tric, and divides, pei’haps when covered by it, into the facial, which winds up toward the inside and fore part of the angle of the jaw, and the lingual, which rather descends a little, and then passes forward and upward. In its regular course, the Lingual artery runs across the constrictor to the horn of 'the os hyoides. It passes within the digastric muscle there, and immediately meets the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus, within which it enters, running forward and upward till it appear at the anterior margin, or sometimes from between two fasciculi of that muscle. In its course along the constrictor to the hyo-glossus, it crosses the superior laryngeal nerve, which passes downward and forward. It soon meets with the ninth, which, descending obliquely, must at first be always, in the regular conformation, rather higher than the artery in this district. Very often the nerve crosses the external carotid just as the lingual artery is given olf. The nerve crosses the origin of the artery in that case, and is more superficial; then, it immediately gets a little higher, or it runs on along the horn, quite in contact with the upper margin of the artery, or perhaps overlapping it a little. In some cases, it even, for a short distance, covers or hides the artery. In those cases where the lingual and facial arteries come off by a common trunk, ascending perhaps to the digastric, before the former be sent off, that artery must be higher than the nerve. The nerve runs on over the hyo-glossus, but the artery goes, imme- diately, within it. The only portion, then, of the artery which can be exposed, without dividing that muscle, is that which runs or curls over the constrictor. As the hyo-glossus arises so far back as the end of, the horn, the space is sometimes little more than the eighth, generally not above a quarter of an inch. If the carotid be full, it is sometimes so near the marc^in of the hyo-glossus that the lingual artery, to be seen, requires the carotid to be pressed back, and the margin of the101 muscle drawn a little forward. When the artery rises low, it sometimes mounts parallel to the carotid, and intimately adherent to it. The lingual artery, at its origin, is intimately connected with veins. The external jugular vein, often descends just in front of the artery as it is entering under the hyo-glossus, or, if the facial vein end in the internal jugu- lar, it may lie on the artery, or cross just by its under margin. The ranular vein, comes downward and backward on the hyo-glossus, and crosses the artery near its origin, to get to the internal jugular. The deeper lingual veins, or the comites, accompany the artery, one lying close by its upper, another by its under margin. The pharyngeal vein passes down on the inside of the lingual nerve and artery, between them and the constrictors, and joins the comites, the united trunk entering either into the facial or internal jugular vein. Now, from this view, it will appear that the operation, of tying the lingual artery, is neither free from difficulty nor uncertainty. The artery often comes off with the facial, and in that case we cannot say exactly where it is to be found, for it may pass under the hyo-glossus, higher or lower. Taking, however, our chance of finding the artery, in the course usually described, then, we would make an incision parallel to the horn of the os hyoides, and just above it, extending from the side of the body of the bone to the margin of the mas- toid muscle. We do not carry this deeper than the cellu- lar substance, that we may avoid the external jugular vein, should a vein of that description exist in that situation in the individual. It often passes down just in front of the origin of the lingual artery. If it do, it is to be drawn aside; if it do not exist, then we expect a large branch, corresponding to it, to enter the internal jugular, and very likely to cover the artery we are seeking. The dissection is to be continued cau- tiously, and if this cross or oblique vein present, it is to be drawn down. We then feel for the horn of the os hyoides, and at its extremity we generally have the ranular vein, which may either be drawn down or raised upward, according to its vici- nity to the horn. A lymphatic gland is sometimes met with here, increasing the obscurity. Clearing the part by a little102 dissection, we see the nerve, which is to be slightly separated, and pressed upward. The nerve is more easily seen than the artery, and is a good guide. If the digastric muscle become soon tendinous, it too is seen, and is also a mark; for at this place it is higher than the artery, but still it may be so low as to ovei-hang the vessel. A little farther forward, its tendon, quite covers the artery, with the intervention of the hyo-glossus. The site of the artery should, by this dissection, be exposed, but it may not be seen. It is deeper than the surface of the extremity of the horn, and hid, as it were, between the caro- tid artery and the hyo-glossus. With two blunt hooks, we may press back the former, and draw forward the margin of the latter; but if we make much extension, we stretch the lingual artery, unless it have been curved, and make it smaller, and less distinct. The length of artery which we can expose, will depend on the position of its origin, which will determine the straightness or obliquity of the course; on the curling of the arteiy; on the proximity of the carotid to the os hyoides; and on the extent to which the hyo-glossus arises from the hoVn. There is seldom above a quarter of an inch, sometimes not so much, between the carotid and the hyo-glossus. We may indeed cut up a little of the hyo-glossus, but that requires caution, lest we also open the vessel. If this is to be done, a small director should be introduced beneath the muscle, close by the margin of the lingual nerve. The artery is not so insulated as, even when found, to be tied hastily, for we have seen that two deep veins run by its margins, and the pharyn- geal is perhaps directly below it, and very possibly the supe- rior lai’yngeal nerve is likewise there. In many cases, the superior thyroid artery and vein, and the ramus laryngeus, are also much closer on this part of the artery, and more in the way of being wounded than is suspected. When the lingual artery is opened in wounds of the throat, it is to be looked for, if near its origin, by the direction given. If more remote, it will be found on the inside of the hyo-glossus, and thei'e is no danger of including the nerve in the ligature, if we do not also include the muscle, for they are on opposite sides of it. The course of the artery at the side, is covered,103 not only by the hyo-glossus, but partly by the digastric and mylo-hyoideus. The lingual near its origin gives off a small branch, the hyoidea, which passes under the ninth nerve and digastric muscle, along the upper margin of the os hyoides, ramifying on the bone and above it, and, lower, to the sub- stance about the ligament of the epiglottis. Soon after the lingualis enters within the hyo-glossus, perhaps about a quar- ter of an inch forward from its margin, it gives off the dorsalis linguae, which mounts up to the side of the root of the tongue, winds over its side to the upper surface, and joins with the branches from the other side. It sends twigs to the epiglottis, tonsil, and pharynx, besides ramifying on the root of the tongue. The lingual artery runs on under the hyo-glossus, almost parallel to the horn of the os hyoides, for three quar- ters of an inch, or ascending very gradually. Near the front of the os hyoides, it is more distant, and, here, it rises abruptly, to pass out at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, a little below the under surface of the tongue. In other cases, it ascends more obliquely. It runs for a time pretty nearly in the tract of the nerve, or a very little lower, but then gets a little higher, so as to be above it, but with the hyo-glossus interposed. At the margin of that muscle, about a quarter of an inch back from the front of the os hyoides, or at a sepa- ration of it into two fasciculi, the artery re-appears. At this spot it divides into two branches, one, the ranine, going for- ward on, or in, the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus, and into the substance of the tongue; the other, the sublingual, going lower. In the fork formed by this division, the bngual nerve often passes forward; that is, the ranine artery is higher, the sublingual lower, than the nerve, which accompanies the ranine artery into the substance of the tongue. The first is the continuation of the artery, and becomes involved in the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus, and, entering the proper substance of the tongue, may be traced to its very tip, where it joins with the one from the other side; but till then the two are quite distinct. At the fraenum, the artery is very superficial; and in dividing that duplicature in children, which is very seldom necessary, the artery or vein may be104 wounded, if sharp-pointed scissors be directed toward tlie under surface of the tongue, and particularly if the operator be not on his guard against any sudden motion of the child, or the person who is holding him. The ranular vein here lies close by the outside of the artery, and a little more superficial. The artery is here very close upon the median line of the tongue, and in its substance. The sublingual branch is smaller, and passes forward on the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus all the way to the chin, between that muscle and the mylo-hyoideus. It supplies the sublingual gland and the neighbouring muscles. If traced from the trunk, it seems to run straight forward on the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, whilst the ranine bends upward a little, and then runs forward. The sublingual and the nerve, are first seen in the dissection, and the ranine is more involved in the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus; but even when it is most involved, if we cut the substance upward a little, we expose the artery. The Facial artery is variable in its origin, but generally it comes off either just as the carotid is passing within the digas- tric, or very soon after that, and nearly in a line with the peak of the angle of the jaw. It is, therefore, very deep at its origin, being there from three quarters of, to nearly, an inch, inward, from the peak. It appears at the upper margin of the stylo- hyoideus, and passes forward, and a little downward, to the back of the submaxillary gland, sometimes loosely imbedded in cellular substance, but often, in this pai’t of its course, connected to the inner margin of tlie jaw, or extremity of the pterygoideus, by fibrous substance sent off from the masse- teric fascia, or, it is conducted to the gland by a duplica- ture of the cervical fascia. Its origin is about half an inch above that of the lingual, but sometimes it is less, and then it runs up in front of the external carotid, but soon divaricates forward, though it pass with it within the digastric. Where it comes off by a common trunk with the lingual, it gene- rally passes also within the digastric. The lingual nerve, in its descent, very often crosses the origin of the artery. The artery, after emerging from within the muscle, comes down-105 ward and forward over it, nearly level with the jaw-blade, and, passing on, or through, a fissure nearly in the middle of the upper surface of the submaxillary gland, turns up on the bone, just at the anterior margin of the masseter muscle, or about an inch and an eighth forward from the angle of the jaw. It is accompanied by two venae comites, one on each side, whilst the facial vein is just behind it where it is turn- ing over the jaw-blade, or covering it where it is emerging from the gland. In this place, the vein leaves it to descend to the neck. It passes down from the jaw over the face of the gland, whilst the artery, if traced toward its origin, winds backward and inward over the upper surface of the gland, and quite hid by it. The gland and the artery are covered by the platysma myoides, and on the face, the vessel is also covered by the same, and by a deeper layer of thin fascia, which fixes it in its situation, and within which it may retract when divided. Its distribution on the face is to be afterwards described; but at present, I notice, that it gives off some branches below the jaw. Soon after its origin, it gives off a pretty large branch, which mounts up in front of its corresponding vein by the margin of the hyo-glossus, and between the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, in the direction of these muscles, and exposed by separating them, and looking between them and the back of the pterygoideus internus. It goes to these muscles, the upper constrictor, tonsil and palate, and is named the inferior palatine artery. Next, it gives off’, a little more forward, a small branch, the tonsillaris, which ascends between the pterygoideus and stylo-glossus. Thirdly, it sends out, in the submaxillary gland, various glandular branches; or some- times above the digastric, and before reaching the gland, it gives off’ one large branch to supply it. Lastly, the submen- tal, a large branch, is detached before being involved in the gland. This runs forward, just between the gland and the jaw-blade, a very little higher than its margin, fairly within the blade, and exterior to the mylo-hyoideus. It goes all tlie way to the chin, or anterior belly of the digastric, supplying the muscles and skin as it goes along. It is coveretl by its106 corresponding vein, which is lower, or more superficial. If we wish to find the facial artery on the gland, it will be exposed by cutting obliquely, downward and backward, from the antei'ior margin of the masseter muscle. The vein is seen on dividing the platysma, and it nearly covers the artery in the short space between the margin of the jaw-blade and the gland. To expose the artery before it reach the gland, we must take the digastric and angle of the jaw as our guides. If the digastric run low, we draw it and the stylo-hyoideus down, and find the artery at its upper margin. If the muscle be high, we may see the origin by pressing it up. The lin- gual nerve often crosses the origin; but we can seldom have occasion to tie the vessel so high. We may also expose it by turning the gland forward, and a little upward, when we see the commencement of the tendon of the digastric, about three quarters of an inch before the angle of the jaw. Here the posterior margin of the gland, if not enlarged, rests on the artery. A large glandular branch, already noticed, often comes off here. There are other two arteries arising at the upper part of the neck, but distributed on the head. It will, however, be better to dispose of these now, than postpone the description. The occipital artery comes off from the outer and back part of the carotid, sometimes not higher than the horn of the os hyoides, or opposite the lingual, sometimes just on a line with the angle of the jaw, but from three-eighths to half an inch inward from it. It ascends upward and obliquely backward, behind the bellies of the digastric and stylo- hyoideus, that is, on their inside; so that, unless it rise low, it is scarcely seen until the digastric be raised a little. The under margin of the posterior belly of the muscle cor- responds nearly to the course of the artery, which is first on the face, and then a little to the outside of the internal caro- tid ; or it mounts up between the two carotids, behind, and a little more outward than, the external, and then winds obliquely backward. The ninth nerve, comes down, parallel to the carotid, somewhat behind the occipital artery, and hooks round it and the carotid. The artery, which is never less107 than the size of a crow-quill, often much larger, aftei* this winds over the internal carotid, then crosses the jugular vein, and the two nerves connected with it there, namely, the eighth and accessory, and passes backward between the trans- verse process of the atlas and mastoid process, traversing the rectus lateralis, and then surmounting the upper margin of the superior obliquus. In this course, it is covered by the sterno- mastoid, trapezius, trachelo-mastoideus, splenius, and. corn- plexus. It then gets out between the sterno-mastoid and tra- pezius, and becomes subcutaneous. As it emerges, the occipital vein dips in a little higher than the artery, whilst the little occipital nerve turns up over them both, or, it passes out, with the great occipital, through the trapezius. Before it becomes superficial, and in its deep tract, it gives off branches, which anastomose with the vertebral, and others, which descend on the multifidus spinae, to anastomose with the cervicalis pro- funda. Others, more superficial, descend on the splenius to join the cervicalis superficialis. It is, whilst ramifying on the occiput, which it does freely, and in all directions, upwards and laterally, joining the temporal and posterior auris, that it is most apt to be injured, and often much blood is lost by wounding the scalp. Effusion of blood into the cellular sub- stance, or under the scalp, forming what is called a false aneurism, generally is removed spontaneously, or by mode- rate pressure, and seldom requires, in a healthy person, an operation. But, when there is an open wound, the vessel often bleeds much, and repeatedly, and,' therefore, ought either to be tied at first, or obliterated by pressure, with a compress and roller. In a recent wound, the blood should be cleared away, and the arteiy tied, after transfixing it with the tena- culum introduced parallel to the surface of the scalp, so as not to include the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, which not only causes pain, but often erysipelas of the head. In those cases where pressure has not been efficiently applied, and repeated haemorrhage takes place, the mouth of the vessel often opens into, or is connected with, a lymphatic expansion, like a segment of a cyst; and till this be cut or rubbed away,108 the mouth of tlie artery itself is not seen, and the vessel is not tied, but only this expansion, which yields to the ligature. The posterior auris comes oft' generally just at the upper margin of the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, and winds back over the face or bellies of these, toward the mastoid process. It then divides into two branches, the anterior of which gives the name to the artery, for it runs to the back of the external ear. The posterior, mounts oh the side of the head, and anastomoses with the superficial temporal and occipital arteries. A small artery is given oft' usually from this one, as it is passing to the mastoid process. It enters the stylo- mastoid hole, where the portio dura comes out; and, when the trunk of the nerve is exposed, this, the stylo-mastoidea, is seen nearly parallel to it, but lower, although in contact. There are still important arteries in the neck which remain to be noticed; but the consideration of these will oblige me to include some which strictly belong to the shoulder. Much confusion has prevailed in the description of the arteries arising at the lower part of the neck, partly, from the irregularity of the vessels themselves, and partly, from different authors not choosing to apply the same name to the same vessel. It will simplify the matter to remember, that it is that portion of the subclavian artery which lies between the carotid and its passage under the clavicle, which gives off these vessels, and that they are distributed in two directions, or have two desti- nations, to the neck and brain, and to the shoulder. The first artery given off has little irregularity, and cannot give any embarrassment; I will, therefore, dispose of it first. It is the vertebral, and it is usually the earliest branch given off by the subclavian, but, sometimes, the thyroid takes pre- cedence. The right vertebral comes oft' just so near the entrance of the subclavian, between the scaleni, as to give space for the origin of the thyroid. It arises from the upper and posterior part of the artery, and vei’y little fai-tlier from the scalenus than the thyroid, which arises from the upper and anterior part. Just about the same spot, but going down from the under part of the artery, is the mammaria interna.109 About one-eighth of an inch more outward, and from the upper and back part of the artery, like the vertebral, but covered by the scalenus, arises the cervicalis profunda. Coming off in a common trunk with it, or from the sub- clavian at the same place and running down on the neck of the first rib, is the superior intercostal, which skirts the inferior cervical ganglion; and a little farther out is the posterior scapular artery. Such is usually the order and relation of these vessels, which begin to go off about an inch and an eighth from the sternal end of the clavicle, and they are so near one another, that in the space of half an inch, sometimes of much less, we have the vertebral, thyroid, and mammary, coming off. The vertebral comes off just where the artery is crossed by the eighth. It runs up about three-fom’ths of an inch to the inside of the transverse process, behind the eighth nerve, and partly covered by the inner margin of the jugular vein. Its course is upwai'd, and at first a little outward, and it is for some time parallel to the carotid but deeper, and about half an inch more outward. It mounts between the scalenus anticus and longus colli. It, generally, immediately sinks deep between these muscles, so that only its origin and a little of the trunk is seen, but sometimes it runs for nearly an inch on a level with their front, and covered by an aponeurosis. At its origin it lies anterior to the inferior ganglion, and is involved in the nerves given off, but the main cord of nerve lies to its inside. The vertebral vein lies partly before it,' partly to its outside. The inferior thyroid artery crosses it obliquely upward and inward. The relations, then, of this artery at the lower part of the neck are very important. On the right side it lies just a little to the outside of the carotid, but deeper, covered by the jugular vein, in contact with the ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and involved in its branches, and crossed by the thyroid artery. The eighth lies just before its origin, and is in front of it for a little way up, then it is to its inside; the phi'enic nerve passes by its outer side, which is bounded by the margin of the scalenus, as its inner is by that of the longus colli. Thereno is no tlifficulty in finding this artery, for the scalenus leads to it. Let the jugular vein be drawn outward, and the carotid pressed a little inward, so as to expose the line of connexion between the scalenus and longus at the top of the clavicle, and on separating these, or at the lower part, without doing so, the artery is found; but in cutting so deep, in this direc- tion, the thyroid artery most probably must be divided. This is not the worst evil to be apprehended, for no ligature could safely be applied to the vertebral, on account of its connexion with the branches of the sympathetic nerve. Were it wounded at the lower portion, it should be scarcely more safe, in the confusion of parts produced by an wound, to tie the subclavian before it gives it off, and as the vessel is too large to be let alone, there are only two methods to be pursued; to draw out the mouth of the vessel, if it can be seen in the wound, and thus, insulating it as far as possible, tie it, or to tie the innominata. It can only be by an oblique wound made from the outside of the neck, by an instrument passing behind the jugular vein, that this vessel can be individually wounded, and this is not likely to happen, or if it do, there is much reason to fear that the sympathetic nerve has also been injured. An open wound in front must cut the jugular vein or carotid artery, or both, and little time can be allowed to tie the innominata, but I know that syncope can restrain the flow even of patent wounds for some time here. A punc- tured wound, if it pass through the vein to the artery, may be cured by pressure, and varicose aneurism formed. In a sabre-wound of the artery higher, between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, it would come to be a question whether to tie the innominata, or the vessel at the inter-transverse space below the wound, provided the introduction of a plug between the processes, with pressure on the artery at the spot where it was wounded, failed. An incision would require to be made between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, if the wound had been only a puncture. If an open wound, we have scarcely to enlarge it. Divide the deep muscles and anterior inter-transversalis, the artery runs up before the nerve, andIll by a probe a ligature may be passed round it. I have not known it necessary in the living subject, but I have done it in the dissecting-room. The vertebral enters the hole in the transverse process of the fifth or sixth vertebra, sometimes the last, sometimes so high as the third. It runs up to the top of the transverse process of the atlas, but in its passage from the dentata to this, it does not run straight, but forms a curve forward. . It then rises up out of the foramen, and winds backward, round the condyle, in a groove on the surface of the vertebra, and enters the cranium by the foramen magnum, penetrating the broad ligament at a point rather nearer the mastoid process than the spine of the dentata, that is, not exactly at the side, but a little behind it. In this course, besides being covered by the more superficial muscles, it must be quite buried under the rectus lateralis, and the mass formed by the ti*iangular junction of the rectus major posticus and two obliqui. On opening up the triangular space formed between these, or detaching them, and cleaning out some dense cellular sub- stance, we expose the artery bare, before it enter the cra- nium ; and at this point, some branches, one of them gene- rally large, are given off, which supply the muscles and anastomose with the occipital, and even the cervicalis profunda. Several branches cluster about the outer margin of the rectus major. The arteries from the opposite sides pass on by the side of the medulla oblongata, to form the basilary artery. The nerves from the base of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata come off either at the sides of the arteries con- tinued from the vertebral, or the arteries somewhat encroach on their origins, lying between these and the base of the skull. The vertebral artery, in its course up the neck, gives off no important branch, only ramuli to the vertebral muscles, and, with the cervical nerves, inward. The most important branches are given off within the foramen magnum, for I say no more of the trunk, or circulation within the head. These are the spinal arteries, four in number, two anterior, arising near the basilary artery, which, soon uniting, form a small tortuous artery, which descends along the front of the medulla spinails112 to its end. The posterior are larger, and run down the posterior surface of the medulla, parallel to each other, and forming connexions with one another, and with the anterior arteries, which also communicate with the twigs from the vertebral artery, where the nerves pass out. Let us connect this arrangement of an arterial plexus, as it were, with the verte- bral sinus befoi'e, and meningeal vein behind, and we shall find the medulla spinalis so surrounded with vessels that we cannot be surprised, if disease should be frequent in this important organ. Any enlargement, permanent or temporary, of these vessels, or any excited action in them, or change of structure, may pi’oduce very protracted illness, with affections of the senses and functions. Ossification, for instance, of the basilai'y artery, I have known productive of headach, derangement of the digestion, symptoms of organic affection of the heart, general * dropsy, and mania, ending in fatal epilepsy. Can all this train of evil, so incongruous, arise, it may be said, from the disease of half an inch of the artery? Dissection confirms this opinion, and the fatal result is has- tened at last by serous effusion in the head. Even tem- porary fulness, or excitement of these vessels, or of the veins of the medulla spinalis, caused by menstrual affections, or disorder of the bowels, may produce all these evils. Often, the attack begins like hysteria, accompanied with croup, flushed face, and heaviness in the head, and rapid pulse; at other times it commences with weight over the eyes, pain in the scalp and neck, and slowness of the pulse. But in either case, if treated as hysteria, the disease proceeds to a great extent, and often palsy of all the parts below the head is the consequence, the pulse beats only 30 in the minute, the respiration is slow, and the patient feels as if a bar of iron lay on the chest, and, at last, with a mind quite sensible, dies, absolutely from the heart and lungs being unable to act. If partially recovered from, there is often a temporary delirium, and the patient is stibject to attacks of great weight or pain in the head, even as if melted lead were poured on the brain, tetanic spasm and coma; and these attacks, are often periodical, and preceded by general oederha and inor-113 ilinate appetite, but no food is then digested. Bleeding is the remedy to be depended on in the first attack, and must be repeated in urgent cases, on the renewal of these paroxysms. The bowels are to be kept open, and if the menses have been obstructed, suitable remedies must be employed. Copper as a tonic, or as exciting some specific property, is useful. Should the disease have gone the length of producing palsy, nothing does so much good as a caustic issue, applied higher or lower on the spine, according to the parts affected. The condition of the lumbar portion of the medulla sometimes pro- duces pain in the head and the other symptoms, but the paralytic affection or painful sensation is generally confined to the lower extremities. Whether this always proceeds from the state of the vessels, or often from direct affections of the medulla oblongata, or spi- nalis, it is difficult to say. But it may attack any part of the medulla, and often shifts from one place to another. Some- times one or two particular vertebrae, may be tender on pres- sure, or the whole spine may be tender, or different parts alternately; but often there is no uneasiness whatever felt. The bones are never affected, but the muscles may, and thereby curvature, particularly of the neck, be produced. In this case, the extensors become paralytic, and the head falls for- ward; but it can for a long time be raised, and kept up by assistance. From the state of the nerves, the action of the heart is affected, and is sometimes irregular; the breathing is laborious, the arms, but not the legs, are numb or paralytic, and sometimes the speech is impaired. A caustic issue, if applied early to the nape of the neck, cures this; and if the head be supported by a proper contrivance, the muscles regain their power, and the support is no longer necessary. When the disease is lower, the inferior extremities are affected, and become at last useless. The abdominal muscles are painful; the pulse is frequent and irregular, and the patient sinks. If any spot be decidedly tender, we are guided in applying the caustic, but if not, we must judge from the nerves affected. Pain and tightness across the diaphragm, and very irregular action of the heart, as if there were organic disease, accompa- I114 iiiecl with slight numbness, or weakness of the inlerior extre- mities, I have known cured by an issue between the shoulders. I have seen little good from blisters. If the affection be not soon removed, those organs which are supplied, even partially, by nerves from the seat of tlie disorder, may, after being disordered in their functions, become organically diseased; and many cases of consumption, I believe, arise in this way, as well as enlai’gement and indu- ration of the liver. I was some time ago consulted respecting a lady, who had, in going out of a room, struck her bonnet against the top of a low door; Her head was suddenly bent back, and she felt an uneasiness at the joining of the neck and head. From that hour she never had health. She had tenderness in the part, more or less wheezing and cough, but no paralytic symp- toms. Presently she began to expectorate pus, and died consumptive. The connexion between the symptoms and the exciting cause was evident, not only from the immediate production of the disease; but also from pressure on the spot invariably producing wheezing, and either cough, or inclination to vomit. An issue did no good, but had it been applied early, it is probable that it would have cured her. A modification of this disease presents different symptoms. There is headach, with extreme sensibility to light or sound, and so excitable a condition of the system, that the least noise produces universal spasms, ending in a state of insensibility, not s5mcope, for the pulse is quite perceptible. In this state of insensibility, with a pale face, and breathing scarcely per- ceptible, the patient lies, for perhaps ten minutes or more, and then begins to moan a little, or sigh, and soon rouses up. Many such attacks may thus be produced in the course of the day, or without any noise or evident cause, at a certain hour, once or twice a day, the paroxysm comes on, with starting, universal shaking, rapid motion of the extremities in succession, tetanic spasm of the back, going off by earns, or by being placed erect, which causes insensibility, even when there is no existing convulsion. Some degree of insanity often attends this. I have tried various remedies without much effect;115 blisters to the head, or tartar emetic ointment to the scalp; mercury, copper, sulphate of quinine, and antispasmodics, but without much benefit. Laxatives, varied according to their operation, with a combination of musk and sulphate of qui- nine, have appeared to enable the disease to wear itself out, better than any other medicine. The diet should be light, but nourishing. Wine, if relished, does no harm'. A pru- dent and watchful nurse may take advantage of many circum- stances to accelerate the cure; and every day, the patient should, when the cure has begun, be kept longer up. In shght affections, the patient only becomes insensible, or as if abstracted and asleep; yet able to stand or even walk. Many cases of chorea depend on this state of the spinal cord, sometimes induced, sometimes kept up, by tlie state of the ali- mentary canal. It is quite a mistake, however, that even, in all those cases which are relieved by purgatives, the immediate cause is in the conchtion of the bowels; for these remedies may influence, and that materially, the condition of the cord. In many cases, also, where the symptoms indicate, even in a marked manner, an affection of the cord, the real seat of disease is in the base of the cerebellum, acting on the medidla oblongata. I have, for instance, seen a patient first affected \vith chorea, then with severe pain m the extremities, sliiftmg from place to place, and attended with tenderness in different parts of the spine successively. By issues, and local applications, these have been almost removed for a time; but then other symptoms appeared, giddiness, blindness, universal paralysis from the head downward, with a pulse either unusually slow, or too frequent. Little appeared wrong in the spinal cord, excepting some serous effusion within the sheath; but the tuber annulare was converted into a firm tumour, and water was found in the ventricles. There can be no doubt, that, although the symptoms at first indicated an affection of the medulla spinalis, yet the primary disease was in the tuber annulare. •Sometimes catalepsy is caused by the state of the spinal cord. The most remai'kable instance of this I ever saw, suc- ceeded to a fall. There was no evidence, at the time, that theIIG head or spine had been particularly injured, but Ironi fever, stupor, and aberration existing for two months, there can be no doubt, that one or both had suffered. At tlie end of this time, the young lady was seized with catalepsy, the attacks of which sometimes lasted for many hours, and even for a day or two. They, however, gradually became shorter, and when I saw her, some months afterwards, she was nearly free from them, unless when she saw any one ekcept the two persons who were in the habit of being with her. If any one else appeared, she became fixed instantly in the position she Avas in, like a living statue, or if playing, she continued her music without intermission, till the paroxysm went off, which was generally in five minutes. She has been known to have above three hundred in a day. But the circumstance I wish here to notice is, that there was great tenderness or rather acute pain, if the finger were pressed, either just between the atlas and head, or on the protuberance of the occiput, in the course of the occipital nerves. Pressure there, instantly pi'oduced a parox- ysm, preceded by a scream, or, if already in a state of uncon- sciousness, and fixture, pressure then alone produced sensation, for she instantly screamed as if in pain; but on a repetition, became quite insensible to any further pain. During the ordinary paroxysm of catalepsy, the pulse was not affected; but during the greater degree of insensibility produced by pres- sure, the pulse became very rapid. The vertebral artery enters, I have said, sometimes so high as the third vertebra. When this is the case, it runs up parallel to the carotid, by the outer edge of the longus colli, and the inner margin of the jugular vein, or in a line nearly with the eighth nerve. On the left side, the artery varies little in its relation to the other vessels, but is sometimes rather more behind the carotid. It runs deep, as in the other side, and becomes covered with branches of the sympathetic in front, and the thoracic duct arches before it. There is, therefore, an additional risk in exposing or injuring the left artery. On this side, the vertebral sometimes rises dix*ectly from the aorta. It comes off immediately after the cai’Otid, between117 it and the subclavian, and runs up behind the carotid, covered by it, or between it and the subclavian, and with the sympa- thetic nerve passing down behind it. As it ascends, it con- tinues behind the carotid, and scarcely farther outward. It is about half the size of that artery. In such a case, I can see no reason why, in the clavicular and lower cervical region, it should not be liable to aneurism, but I know of no example. Were it to occur, it might, as has been remarked by my brother, be mistaken for carotid aneurism. The confusion in the account of the other arteries, may be avoided by understanding that the scapula, which is of a triangular shape, has its three sides supplied by three different vessels, from whatever source they may be derived. The under one, by the suh-scapular from the axillary artery, and which, therefore, does not come to be noticed at present. The upper costa has the superior, and the posterior costa the posterior scapular arteries. The Superior, or Supra-scapular artery, if named from its destination, should be well named, but if from its course, it should be called the clavicular artery, for it passes obliquely along the inside of this bone, or a little higher. From this transverse course, it has been called also the Transversalis Humeri, or Transversa Scapulae. It does not always arise from the same source, sometimes from the thyroid, sometimes from the subclavian. It generally is a branch of tlie former, passes downward, and across the scalenus anticus, over the phrenic nerve, and brachial plexus. It winds outward over the scalenus, and front of the levator scapula, passing at the back of the clavicle, and a little lower than the upper sur- face of the bone. It often comes off about three quarters of an inch above the clavicle, but, about the outer margin of the scalenus, it is nearly level with it, and with the under margin of the emerging subclavian. Here it often divides into two branches, one running inward over the jugular vein, and lost near the sternum; the other, outward within the clavicle, arid over, hut not touching, the subclavian. It traverses that cellular triangular space, in which we cut for exposing the118 subclavian artery when it is to be tied, and thus that artery is sometimes skirted in front by the supra-scapular, which is also partly connected to the subclavian muscle by cellullar sub- stance. It presently gets alongside of the supra-scapular nerve, the outermost of the axillary plexus, arising from the fourth, and accompanies it to the notch. The nerve enters under the ligament, the artery generally over it. Both pass on under the acromion, and cross the edge of the spine of the bone to get to the infra-spinal region of the scapula, but both give off first a division for the supra-spinal fossa. This is distributed here, and anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery, whilst the infra-spinal division anastomoses on the bone with the infra-scapular artery. Now, the destination of this artery is plain, it goes to the notch in the upper costa, and it is the upper artery of the scapula. But it may not arise from the thyroid. There is, indeed, seldom wanting a transversalis humeri, but it may be a small branch going scarcely to the acromial end of the clavicle. In this case, the Supei'ior scapular comes off directly from the Subclavian, and runs in the outward course described, or it is given off from the Posterior scapular, when it passes above the superior costa, and, indeed, there always is given off here a branch, if not to supply the place of the superior artery, at least to anastomose with it. When the Supra-scapular artery arises from the subclavian, it is generally immediately after it comes out fi’om between the scaleni. It passes through the plexus of nerves, some below, others above it. It arches a little way up, so as to get half an inch above the clavicle, then turns down over the levator, covered by the trapezius, and about two inches from the acromion, is level with the under margin of the clavicle, and about an inch back from it. This may be the distribution on one side, however, whilst on the other, the main trunk of the artery may mount up within the levator to the neck, the scapula receiving little from this vessel. The Superior artery may also arise from the Axillary artery, and pass between the nerves, the two uppermost before, the rest behind it, to its destination. In its course, this artery givesbranches to the different parts it travei-ses, and one is distinct enough to be named. It is given off at the scapula, but does not sink deep, -It ramifies on the surface of the supra- spinatus and acromion, anastamosing with the acromial branch of the thoracic humerus. It is named the super- ficial scapular artery. The Posterior or Dorsal scapular artery runs higher and traverses the neck, as the other did the clavicle, to the shoulder. It may arise either directly from the subclavian, or be given off from the thyroid. In the former case, it is a deep artery, and arises just after the subclavian has passed the scaleni, or even before it have cleared the scalenus anti- cus. It is, therefore, enveloped in the axillary nerves, and generally passes out with some of them before, and some behind it, or under them all, as well as the scaleni and levator scapulai. It does not, however, pursue its course entirely below this last muscle, but either comes in one U’unk througli it, and gets on its surface, or it sends one large branch through its fasciculi, which descends on the levator, to the superior costa, and anastomoses with the superior scapulai' artery, or supphes its place when deficient. The trunk con- tinues under the levator, or, if it have come through it, passes again between two fasciculi, to get below it, and reach the angle of the scapula. It then passes down by the posterior costa on the serratus posticus, and covered by the rhombodei, going to the extremity of the scapula, and anastomosing with the infra-scapular. In its course it gives branches to the deep muscles and up on the splenius, especially when the transvers- alis colli, to be afterwards noticed, is small or short. In other cases, the transversalis colli divides, at the anterior margin of the levator, into two branches; one, large, goes up over the back of the levator under the trapezius, and on over the sple- nius, the other, turns down in front of the levator, towards the scapida. If this branch be small the transversalis humeri is large. This artery often arises, not, iis I have described it, from the subclavian, but from the Thyroid, along with the cervicalis superficialis. The common trunk given off by the thyroid, in this case, is named the Transversalis colli, andm it is continued in the coiu’se, and under the name, of the posterior scapular artery. Its origin is fully three-quarters of an inch above the clavicle. It passes outward over the scalenus anticus, nerves, and scalenus posticus, and under the omo-hyoideus and trapezius. It gives off a division which runs higher, goes transversely over the scaleni and levator, and under the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoideus, and trapezius. It winds to the back of the neck, and mounts up on the splenius. On removing the trapezius, it is seen coming round to the back of the neck, higher than the posterior scapular. It is called the superficial cervical, to distinguish it from one still deeper, the profunda, but it is far from being superficial, it is only so comparatively. It should not have been noticed yet, as it is a regular branch of the thyroid, had it not been from its connexion with the posterior scapular, where that has a thyroid origin. When the posterior scapular artery comes off from the subclavian, there is seldom a trans- versal is colli from the thyroid, but only the cervicalis superfi- cialis. The transversalis colli and posterior scapular artery, being one and the same in their distribution, do not require to arise twice, or come from two different sources in the same person. These scapular branches as I have described, may arise either from the subclavian or thyroid arteries. The next always arises from the subclavian, and goes to the back of the neck. It comes off from the upper and almost back part of the artex’y, which is betAveen the scaleni. It arises about three- eighths of an inch outward of the vertebral, and goes a little upward and then backward, sometimes on the face of the nerves, but generally between them, the first dorsal being below, and all the rest above it. It dives back between the transverse processes of the two last cervical vertebrae, at the inner margin of the scalenus posticus, ramifies, behind, on the deep layer of muscles, multifidus spina, &c. and anasto- moses with branches from the vertebral artery. It is well named the Cervicalis Profunda. The last muscular branch to be noticed, or cervicalis ascendens, is always of thyroid origin. It runs up on the scalenus anticus, sometimes to the very top of the neck, andI 121 o-ives off a transverse branch, which goes outward over the scaleni and levator, parallel to the cervicalis superficialis, but higher. The only remaining trunk to be described is the Inferior Thyroid, which gives off several of the branches already noticed. It is given off from the face of the subclavian, sometimes before the vertebral, but generally just after it, and before the artery enters the scaleni. On raising the jugular vein, the scalenus is seen, and the thyroid artery, or axis thyroidea, as it is called, comes off just at its tracheal margin. It immediately divides into a lash of branches; one runs downward and outward on the scalenus, towards the clavicle, the transversalis humeri; another goes upward by the inner margin of the scalenus, the thyroidea ascendens, which often comes off by a common trunk with tlie cer- vicalis superficialis that crosses the scalenus; and these have been all described, and the case noticed, in which the trans- versalis colli, or posterior scapular artery, comes off with the cervicalis superficialis, and then the ascendens often comes off separately. But the regular branches are the trans- versalis humeri, the cervicalis superficialis, the cervicalis ascendens, and one still to be noticed, the ramus thyroideus, which winds upward and inward to the thyroid gland. These four branches sometimes come off distinctly from the axis or trunk, sometimes two come off together by a common branch. Sometimes the axis is directed inward, and the ramus thy- roideus seems to be its continuation. It curves inward and upward towards the gland, and the other branches, though large, seem'only branches, whilst this is the trunk. In other cases, the axis or trunk is directed outward, and instantly gets on the scalenus, in a direction upward and outward, and arches on it and over the phrenic nerve, and under the aponeurosis, which covers the cervical plexus and the levator. It is continued under the branches of the cervical nerves. T-his trunk, then, at its origin, and for a considerable way, IS as large as the facial artery, and, in these cases, forms both the posterior scapular artery and superficial cervical. Near its origin it gives off’, towards the tracheal side, a branch whichsubdivides into three; one comes downward and inward to tlie fat and cellular substance on the tracheti, and sends a small artery up the inner margin of the scalenus. This branch is the tracheal artery, and it must be divided in some of its ramifications in bronchotomy; a second, or middle branch, often the largest of the whole, mounts obliquely up- ward and inward to the gland. It is the ramus thyroideus, and passes behind some of the branches of the sympathetic nerve, and receives an accompanying plexus of fibrillae from it. It passes behind, or a very little below', the middle ganglion, from which ramidi are given off, that, accompany- ing the branches of the artery, descend on its front, and thence on the face of the subclavian artery. On the left side it passes behind the thoracic duct, between it and the longus colli. On looking at the gland, it is apparently sup- plied chiefly by the superior artery, but, on examination, the inferior is found often still longer. It curls beneath the carotid, and down to the lower exti'emity and under surface of the gland, as if it were going to the cellular substance on the trachea, and then it turns up on the under surface of the gland. It is seen here by turning the carotid outward. The thyroid is large in children, and is rarely wanting. The superior thyroid may be small, or may not exist on one or both sides; but there is always an inferior thyroid, though, in rare cases, it may be solitary, arising from the aorta or inno- minata, and running up the front of the trachea. A third, or outer ramus, runs up the scalenus by the inside of the phrenic nerve. It is the cervicalis ascendens. From the under or fore part of the axis, there goes off the U’ansversalis liumeri, or supra-scapular, under the circumstances already explained We now understand the distribution of vessels here. From the thyroid axis, arising from the subclavian, w'e have the transversalis humeri, or superior scapular artery; the ramus thyroideus, with its tracheal branch; the cervicalis ascendens, and cervicalis superficialis. From tlie subclavian we have, the vertebral, the posterior scapular, and the cervicalis profunda. But there is this difference, in certain cases, that the posterior scapular may come from the thyroid, as transversalis colli,123 I \ and the superior may arise from the subclavian directly, or Irom tlie posterior scapular. The Veins of the neck may either be traced from the heart, or toward it, in the direction of the current of blood. There are different orders of veins, arranged according to their situa- tion, but they are not so regular as the arteries, and the exter- nal veins are inconstant both in their number and course. The^rs^ to be noticed, are the external jugular veins, which lie under, and adherent to, the platysma. Tlie posterior runs down the neck, under the platysmal fascia, in a perpendicular direction, from behind the angle of the jaw to the clavicle. It at first goes a little way along the margin of the sterno-mas- toid muscle; then, continuing its descent, it goes obliquely with regard to its fibres, and, having reached the posterior margin of the muscle, sinks between it and the trapezius, sometimes near the clavicle, sometimes even two inches above it. It gets under, or behind the omo-hyoideus, and enters the subclavian vein. It is formed by the vein whieh accompanies the external carotid artery, in its course up through the parotid gland. It therefore is a continuation of what has been called the posterior facial vein, receiving the super- ficial, middle, and deep temporal veins, and the ramifications of the internal maxillary, with the posterior auricular vein from behind. As the carotid artery gets first under, and then into the parotid gland, so does the vein, if traced upward. Some- times this posterior jugular vein is formed entirely from the posterior auricular, with a few subcutaneous additions; and the other tributary veins enter the internal jugular. Or the occipital vein, instead of accompanying its artery, forms this vein, or the superficial temporal, comes down on the sur- face, of the parotid gland, all along. I do not mean, at pre- sent, to notice its varieties in formation, but merely that a large external jugular vein usually, in whatever way it be formed, passes down from the angle of the jaw. Second, The anterior jugular vein descends from before the angle of the jaw, in the direction of a line drawn from the anterior margin of the masseter muscle, to the clavicle, at the124 posterior margin of the sterno-mastoicl muscle; and in this case, it joins the posterior vein, at an angle here, or, it descends along the anterior mar gin of the mastoid muscle, and enters either the internal jugular or subclavian, at the sternum. It is formed by the anterior facial vein, which sweeps down over the submaxillary gland, and its branches; but often this vein ends in the internal jugular, and the anterior jugular is want- ing. The posterior jugular vein often winds forward close by the clavicle, and adhering to it. It either enters the inter- nal jugular, or unites with the anterior jugular, and enters the subclavian or internal jugular with it. The two anterior veins on the right and left, often communicate on the thyroid cartilage by a cross branch. Thirds The external jugulars often communicate with one another, as they are entering below the clavicle, or a little sooner. The posterior, and the anterior, by a small branch running parallel to the clavicle, and above it; the anterior by a pretty large transverse trunk, which crosses on the sterno- hyoideus, on a level with the clavicle. It is the transverse jugular vein. Fourth, Several cutaneous branches, of no great size, descend on the very front of the throat, forming a kind of network over the sterno-hyoideus, and ending in the transverse jugular where it exists, or in the anterior jugular, where it does not. These sometimes form about the middle of the neck, a small trunk which runs down, and is called the middle jugular. Fifth, From the back and sides of the neck, and lower part of the head, some branches descend, and form at the side, or rather latero-posterior region of the neck, a small trunk which ultimately winds forward like a supra-clavicular vein, and joins the posterior jugular. This vein, is also sometimes formed by the temporal, descending more backward. Sixth, This vein is often wanting, or does not arise so high, but generally two, come from the lateral part of the neck and shoulders, to join the external jugular, or to enter directly into the subclavian. The lowest comes from the shoulder under the trapezius, and parallel to the clavicle, running in the course of the arteria transversalis colli, or humeri, but125 lower, and is differently named according to the name given to the common artery, whose blood it returns, transversalis, supra-scapular, &c. A branch often communicates between this and the cephalic vein, passing under the clavicle, but sometimes over it. The highest branch comes from the back of the neck, and down from the occiput, and joins the former under the trape- zius. There is, at this part of the neck, as elsewhere, much irregularity in the course of the veins; but this we must be prepared for in the operation of tying the subclavian artery. We have often several veins, here, crossing the lower part of the neck. We may, close by the clavicle, have the external jugular vein sweeping along it. Then, a little within that, and perhaps a little higher, we have the transversalis humeri, crossing the subclavian artery, where it would be tied, going over the nerves and the scalenus, to the root of the jugular. Then, a little higher, we have the transversalis colli going also to the jugular. Seventh^ I have noticed how the anterior jugular is formed; but between the jaw and the os hyoides, it communicates with the internal jugular by a short cross branch, so that the facial may be said to end both in the external and inteimal, or, indeed, it often ends exclusively in the internal, the anterior external vein being wanting. There is no valve at the entrance of the external vein, into the internal jugular, or in the cross branch of communication, so that blood can flow as freely from the internal, into the external jugular, as from the latter into the former, except in so far as gravity or posi- tion are concerned. Sometimes there is no large external vein, but one or two small irregular branches return the blood from the surface. The external jugulars lie under the platysmal fascia, and have several branches of both the cuta- neus colli and supra-clavicular nerves ramifying over them, particularly over the posterior vein. Branches from the portio dura also extend over the upper part of the vein. Eighth, I attend next to the deep or internal jugular; and when we look at the trunk of this, it very much resembles the carotid artery. If we trace it up the neck, we find a common (12G trunk subdividing, like the artery at the top of the thyroid cartilage, into, the cerebral, or continuation of the inter- nal jugular, which, accompanies the internal carotid, lying to its outer side, and entering into, or issuing from the fora- men lacerum, and, secondly, the anterior division which is connected with the external carotid. It either entirely receives the facial vein, or there is such communication at the jaw with it, that even where the anterior external vein is large, the fascial may be said to end in the internal, as well as to form the external; and the temporal also may in like man- ner communicate with, if not terminate in the internal. The course of the internal jugular vein, considering the cerebral vein as its continuation, is that of a line drawn from the clavicle, at from one-half to seven-eighths of an inch from its sterno-clavicular articulation, up to the front of the mas- toid process or back of the condyle of the jaw. But this does not shew the depth from the clavicle, below, nor inward from the side of the jaw, or mastoid process, above. The jugular covers the scalenus, and in part the subclavian artery, before it passes between the scaleni. It .is itself at the under end crossed by the omo-hyoideus, and at the clavicle is covered by the sterno-thyroideus. On raising the jugular, the scale- nus is seen with the phrenic nerve on it. The diameter of the vein here is about three quarters of an inch. The tributary veins are not always very regular, but are naturally divided into the superior thyroid, the lingual, facial, pharyngeal, occipital, &c. The superior thyroid arises from the thyroid gland, and winds up nearly in the course of the artery, but is a little more outw'ard on the gland, and as it approaches the jugular, which it joins about the top of the thyroid carti- lage, it either covers its coxTesponding artexy, or is a little lower. It receives also a small vein, corresponding to the laryngeal artery, which runs lower than the artery. The thy- roid vein, like the artery, is covered by the sterno-thyroid muscle, &c. The thyroid often receives, or, if we change the language, •rives olF, both the sxxbmental and ranine. The former, which also often comes to, or goes from the facial, passes along the127 inside of die jaw-blade, and parallel to it, covering the sub- mental artery, and going over the upper part of the subni ax- illary gland, between it and a conglobate gland, which lies closer to the jaw-blade than the subinaxillary. It here joins the facial vein, which is covered by this gland, or passes between two glands. When it goes to the thyroid, it of course inclines a little more downward. The ranular vein commences at the point and side of the tongue, and runs along its inferior surface near to the fraenum, where it is seen through the raucous membrane, and at this part it was at one time the practice to puncture tlie vessel when it was desirable to obtain blood from the mouth. If done cautiously in adults, so as to avoid the artery, there may be still an advantage in following the advice. The vein hes close by the outside of the artery, but that is here a little deeper or higher than the vein. From this part, the vein passes backward and downward on the surface of the hyo-glossus to the top of the horn of the os hj^oides, and thence either passes on, to enter the internal jugular, or joins the facial, thyroid, lingual, or pharyngeal vein at the horn. In its course, it communicates with the lingual vein, and is either joined by a branch from the submaxillary gland, or sends one back to that gland to meet the submental there. This runs more horizontal, and more directly backwaixl or forward than the ranular vein, and is connected with it about half way between the fraenum and the gland. The tract of the ranular vein is lower than that of the subinaxillary duct. The lingual veins, are generally venae comites to the artery, one lying higher, another lower than that vessel, but all the three connected to one another. Their course is therefore ascertained by that of the artery. They often join the facial below the os hyoides, and also below the origin of the thyroid artery: the vein or veins pass over that artery. The pharyngeal veins, which are generally two or more in number, end either in the jugular or thyroid, or often in a common trunk with the lingual. They come down from the upper and back part of the pharynx, along the back of the side of that tube. The largest vein lies on the inside of, and128 a little anterior to, the external carotid, consequently, deeper, being in front of the internal carotid, which is on the other side of the process. The pharyngeal veins of the opposite side form a plexus, by communicating branches, on the pharynx. The inferior palatine vein usually enters the facial. It descends on the side of the pharynx from the tonsil, between the stylo-phai’yngeus and stylo-hyoideus, is both a little more external and superficial than the pharyngeal, and joins the facial within the margin of the jaw, in the region of the sub- maxillary gland. The submental vein covers the submental artery, comes along the jaw-blade over part of the submaxillary gland, between it and a conglobate gland, which lies closer to the blade. It then enters the facial, or sometimes a lower vein. It receives branches from the neighbouring muscles, glands, and tongue, and often a distinct branch runs back from the ranular vein to join it at the gland. The occipital vein is made up of branches from the scalp, and the trunk plunges in between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid a little higher than where the artery issues, and the little occipital nerve turns up over them both. It passes under the splenius, alongside of the artery, though in an opposite course, and ends in the internal jugular, or some- times in the external. It was once, more the practice, than it is now, to open one of the external jugular veins. It appears, however, very doubtfid whethermore benefit be generally derived from vene- section there, rather than from a vein in the arm. The circu- lation within the head can only be affected through the medium of branches communicating between the external and internal veins, and, on principles now admitted, can only be influenced, specially, if the velocity of the blood in the veins be increased. This will, of course, quicken the circulation within the head. We cannot diminish the absolute quantity in the brain beyond the slight degree capable of producing a small variation in the tension of the vessels, and this would be done by depletion from any vein. Cases requiring the application of a ligature to the. internal129 jugular vein are rare; but we need not apprehend serious consequences from obstructed circulation, if the ligature be not applied near the foramen through which the vein issues. If the vein be tied below the os hyoides, the communication with the external jugular is sufficiently free to permit the descent of the blood, for there is no opposition from valves. I have tied, at the same time, the internal jugular veins on both sides of a rabbit, -without any bad effect either at the moment or afterwards. But in man, I have seen stupor or apoplexy produced by pressure on the vein near the base of the skull. There is little space for tying it between the atlas and root of the styloid process. The vein runs between the atlas and styloid process, and the finger sunk inward and backward from the ramus of the jaw, half an inch above its angle, touches the atlas, and all that rests on it. The Vertebral, belongs both to the spinal canal and the muscles. It consists of two divisions. The internal, accompanies the vertebral artery, but lies in front of it, and at each intervertebral space receives branches from the muscles. It does not come from within the skull, however, but only receives a vein from the condyloid hole, where that vein exists. It begins from the deep muscles, such as the obliqui, &c. and enters above the vertebral artery, along the front of which it runs down, and at each intervertebral space receives a ramus from the muscles behind, and another from the verte- bral sinus, or that long vessel (one on each side) which runs at the side behind the bodies of the vertebrae, from one end of the spine to the other, but belonging to the spinal, not to the cerebral circulation, with which it has no connexion. These singular and important tubes, smaller in the neck than in the back, communicate with each other at every verte- bra, by a transverse canal, which runs between the body of the bone and the posterior vertebral ligament, at the margin of which the tube is situated, and which seems lost over, or on it. '^riiese transverse branches receive blood from the substance of the bone; and the tubes, or sinuses themselves, receive, from behind, the meningeal veins, which are small^ and delicate, but very numei’ous and plexiform. Uk) the patho-legist, the knowledge of this distribution must be important. It explains, amongst other consequences, the ready produc- tion of a certain degree of pressure on the spinal cord, and the transition of that pressure, from place to place, according to the state of the circulation, whereby pain, spasmodic mo- tion, or paralysis, &c. may take place alternately, or succes- sively, in different parts of the body. Or, in some cases, we have acute pain in one spot of the back, or a general and severe tetanic paroxysm, with stupor, or overpowering feeling of weight in the head, relieved by nothing but the lancet, and generally relieved almost immediately by that, if it have not been delayed till effusion, or some permanent change have taken place. This internal branch, of the vertebral, also receives, on its exit from the canal, a vein, which accompanies the cervicalis profunda artery, or sometimes this deep cervical vein enters directly the subclavian vein. The external branch, beginning by, or having received, the vein from the condyloid foramen, comes down from the occiput, in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, receiving branches from the neighbouring muscles, and communicating at the intervertebral spaces with the internal branch. The common trunk passes down beneath the thyroid artery, and to its inside, deep, just at the inner margin of the sca- lenus anticus, along with the vertebral artery, and partly cov- ering it, especially at its outside, sometimes quite on it, and enters the back of the subclavian, just beyond the entrance of the internal jugular. There is a difference in the two sides, in this respect, that the right passes behind the subclavian artery, the left before it, the right subclavian being more forward than the left, owing to the position of the innominata. On both sides, the vein is nearly in front of the artery, but on the right side it often inclines in its descent a little to the outside, and on the left to the inside of the artery. The inferior thyroid veins arise on, and from, the gland by various branches, and from the fat over the trachea. The two veins anastomose so freely between the sterno-thyroideus and trachea, in the soft cellular substance interposed, that131 they form a very considerable plexus on the front of the tra- chea; and in wounds here, it should be remembered, that there is not only the more superficial plexus already described on the surface of the sterno-hyoideus, but this more important congeries of veins below the sterno-thyroideus. The right vein comes down in front of the arteria innominata, and before the eighth nerve, and enters the vena cava, where it gives off the right subclavian. The left enters the left subclavian. It is farther to be remembered, that the two anterior jugular veins often communicate by a transverse branch running over the sterno-hyodei, just above the sternum, and this may be wounded in making an incision here. As there is an arteria innominata, so is there a correspond- ing vein. The trunk formed by the union of the right sub- clavian and internal jugular veins, passes down alongside of the artery, and is called by some the right vena innominata; whilst the left, formed by the subclavian and jugular vein of the opposite side, is much longer, and passes somewhat hori- zontally across the root of the artery, which runs at a variable depth, generally about half an inch, though sometimes a little more, below the margin of the sternum. It ascends at the median line, and its course is obliquely to the right sterno- clavicular articulation, where it subdivides. The length between this subdivision, and the upper margin of the vein, is about five- eighths of an inch; but this extent of artery is not always un- covered by veins, for, often, on the outside of the sterno-hyoidei muscles, a transverse vein of considerable size runs from one external jugular to another, parallel to, and just above the margin of the sternum; whilst under the muscles covering the trachea and the artery, we have the large inferior thyroid vein, sometimes ascending directly from the vena innominata, some- times obliquely from the jugular or subclavian. Occasionally, the anterior external jugular vein, winds under the margin of the mastoid muscle, an inch or more above the clavicle, and runs along the under surface of that muscle, to get to the internal jugular or subclavian; and if care be not taken, it may be injured in exposing the bifurcation of the artery, when a liga- ture is to be applied to the innominata.13^ 1 he jugular and subclavian veins on the right side, unite to form the right vena innominata, and their junction lies over the subclavian artery, between it and the clavicle. The inner margin of the jugular is about an eighth of an inch out from the articulation, the outer one about an inch; but where it enters the subclavian, it inclines a little inward, so as to be rather nearer the articulation. In some cases, the inner margin is half an inch or five-eighths out from the articulation, and the outer one in proportion. It meets the subclavian at an angle, and the upper margin of the subclavian, and outer one of the jugular, forming the angle, is generally about a quarter of an inch above the surface of the clavicle. The under margin of the subclavian vein, at this point, is a quarter of an inch below the upper surface of the clavicle, its course being oblique. A line dropped perpendicularly at the articulation, the subject lying on the back, touches the inner margin of the united vein, or right vena innominata, which is very short, and runs down close by the right side of the arteria innominata, but a little farther forward. It soon meets the left vena innominata, to form the cava. The left jugular and subclavian veins meet sometimes a little higher than the right. The under margin of their union is just level with the upper margin of the clavicle, and the outer margin of the jugular, or angle formed by it, with the upper margin of the subclavian, is nearly half an inch above the clavicle, and about an inch out from the articulation. The left vena innominata thus formed, passes not horizontally, but with a slight obliquity across the inside of the sternum. Its inner margin is about three-eighths of an inch inward from the articulation, and a line dropped perpendicularly at the articulation, would strike the face of the vein. The vein adheres by means of its sheath to the inner surface of the sternum, about the median line; its upper margin is nearly level with that of the sternum; but as it slopes downward a little, it meets the right vena innominata five-eighths, or three quarters of an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle. There is, however, some variation in the elevation of the vein in differ- ent cases, for although this be the usual relation, yet the mar-133 rrin of the vein may rise above the level of the sternum, or it may be nearly three quarters of an inch below it, even at the meitin line. It may be noticed, however, that in some cases, a strong tendinous band is stretched from one clavicle to the other, along the top of the sternum, and adhering to it, which adds apparently to the depth. I need scarcely add, that the vein crosses the root of the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and that of the innominata. The Lymphatics from the head and neck accompany the veins, particularly the internal jugular. An interlacement of these vessels, intermixed with small glands, runs down along both the front and outside of this vein. They are still more distinct, and larger, near the angle formed by the jugular and subclavian veins, and, there, they usually unite into a trunk, which, on the right side, enters the angle, as the thoracic duct does on the left side; but, sometimes, a detachment enters separately into the jugular vein. On the left side they join the duct. The trunk formed by the axillary lymphatics comes up on the face of the subclavian vein, and either enters it in front or joins the cervical trunk, forming a vessel about half an inch long, and not much less than the duct. Many glands exist in the course of these lymphatics; some are placed in the course of the external jugular vein, just under the platys- mal fascia. These are named the superficial glands, and, in health, are very small. The deeper are larger, particularly at the upper part between the thyroid cartilage and jaw, and at the lower part above the clavicle. Near the jaw they are met with, in varying size, from the chin back to the mastoid process, and are covered by the platysmal fascia. Some lie on or near the anterior belly of the digastric, and several lie on the surface of the submaxillary gland, one of which, in general, is larger than the others, and, as the facial artery turns over the jaw blade, we often find a gland which has the artery between it and the submaxillary. Two or more are found in the angle, formed by the facial and temporal or maxillary veins, and others on the external carotid arteries. A small gland often lies on the hyo-thyroid ligament, covered134 by the fascia. When this swells it is bound down by the fascia, and extends backward so as to press on the pharynx, and thus, as well as by interfering with the free motion of the cartilages, it may impede, more or less, deglutition, and being firmly covered, it is long of opening if suppuration take place. If it be situated, as sometimes happens, farther for- ward under the thyro-hyoideus, it affects I’espiration. A puncture should be made as soon as matter has formed. A gland lies deep between the carotid artery and margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle, and if this swell, it may insinuate itself under the muscle, on the membrane, or it may form a fii’m mass like fibrin, and become attached to the thyroid gland and recurrent nerve, or some of the anterior branches of the sympathetic, and give much trouble in breathing. A pretty large gland lies behind the angle of the jaw, covered by the end of the parotid gland, but separated from it by a layer of fascia. From this we have a chain of glands, glandulae concatenatae, enclosed in a duplicature of the deep cervical fascia. These run down, partly on the front, partly to the outside of the jugular vein; a few lie on the face of the carotid, and others behind it, and some are scattered more outwardly, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, on the tract of the cervical plexus of nerves. At the upper part, or near the mastoid process, several small glands lie covered by the mastoid muscle, and one pretty large one rests on the top of the internal jugular vein. Lower, the glands are most numerous, just within the margin of the muscle. Several ai’e met with under the trapezius, on the lateral and back pai’t of the neck, and even pretty deep among the muscles, and one or two are in the tract both of the accessory and occipital nerves. Many are found near the clavicle, beneath the tra- pezius, as far forward as the mastoid muscle, and as far back as the acromion, or in lax cellular substance between these muscles; one or two even go forward, under the mas- toid, toward the trachea, and one rests below it on the scalenus. Several lie on the face of the subclavian. All of these glands are covered by the platysma, and some of them, we have seen, both by muscles and the deeper layer of fascia. The conse-135 quence of this is, that often when they swell they are prevented from enlarging outward, but are bound down, and extend more laterally, and involve important parts. A tumour begin- ning in an individual gland, and remaining apparently con- fined to it for a long time, may presently interest others, and at last, many and large glands, more or less distinct, and more or less moveable, enlarge, and disfigure the neck, or, one extensive and confused mass, may extend from the jaw to the clavicle, or, an individual gland may so increase as to occupy all that space, and either produce merely inconvenience from its shape, or more formidable evils from pressure on the larynx, trachea, or oesophagus, or give rise to mortal disorder of the general system. Even the more innocent or less suspi- cious tumours, known or supposed to be of a scrofulous nature, or, perhaps, distinctly arising from the absorption of acrid matter, are not free from hazard. They may suppurate extensively and protractedly, or by involving nerves, they produce pain or heat, and prickling or numbness of the shoulder or arm, or they, when not only pressing on one or more nerves, but also partially inflamed, may produce much pain in the head and neck, or stiffness and rigidity of the muscles, or wry neck, which may not be easily cured. We have seen that they are intimately connected with the jugular vein, and yet they seldomer produce obstruction to the return of the blood than might be expected; but when those at the upper part of that vessel inflame more acutely, the inflamma- tion may be communicated to the vein, and death, preceded by coma, be speedily produced, and thus, a man supposed to be in no danger to-day, or at most believed to have a curable fever, may be dead to-morrow. The glands, then, in every point of view, are of much importance, and their acute inflammation should be promptly attacked, and even their more chronic enlargement, especially in adults, must not be neglected. It would indeed be a cruel and unjustifiable course to cut out, in every instance, an enlarged gland, but, on the other hand, where, especially in adults, the tumour has been of considerable, perhaps long duration, and is tending to increase, it surely ought to be removed. It is well known136 to every attentive surgeon, that in too many instances such glands are allowed to remtiin, because they give, at present, no trouble, and are expected, from their nature, to remain stationary, or to suppurate, and yet in some time, when again examined, they are found not only to be of a fonnidable nature, and producing effects which must be fatal, but also to have so extended, as to render it quite impossible to re- move them. Glandular tumours which do not suppurate are always more suspicious in the adult, or in advanced life, than in the young person. The Nerves in the neck are divisible into those coming off from the spinal cord or base of the brain, to be distributed to the muscles of the neck, or parts about the throat, and those which from both sources, go to the more important viscera of the thorax and abdomen. In the triangle formed by the superior and inferior oblique, and the rectus major, we may, by clearing out dense cellular sub- stance, expose the vertebral artery, between the atlas and occi- put, on its way into the cranium. If we perform this dissec- tion cautiously, we discover in this triangle the suboccipital nerve, which passes out by the aperture in the broad liga- ment, which connects the first vertebra to the foramen mag- num, through which the artery enters, the two running in contrary directions. Its trunk adheres to the inner side of the artery, and passes out below it, nearly midway between the mastoid process and spine of the dentata. Under the artery, it forms a ganglion, which divides into an anterior and poste- rior branch, both of which may be seen, or found deep in the triangle. The posterior comes out from below the artery, just as the vessel is going into the foramen magnum, rather nearer the mastoid process, than to the spine of the dentata. It is found just between the artery and the atlas, at the supe- rior margin of the inferior oblique, and, immediately turning over the back of the artery, close on its coat, ascends to the inferior margin of the superior oblique, and divides into branches to these deep muscles, besides sending a branch to join the first cervical. The anterior branch runs forward in137 the groove of the atlas, by the inside of the vertebral artery, and appears on the front of the transverse process, just by the inside of the artery. It is so connected with it, and so related to the groove, that it appears to rise up out of the hole, in the transverse process, and then to bend down over the face of the process, between the rectus lateralis, and rectus minor, where it is readily found by separating these muscles. It sends branches up along these muscles to the base of the skull; but the largest branch turns down between them, and joins one coming up from the first cervical nerve, so as to form a continued arch between the two, and which would be said to rise either fi'om the one or other nerve, accordingly, as we begin to trace it. Thus, both the anterior and posterior branches communicate with the first cervical; the anterior bi-anch or arch, is bounded by the outer margin of the inter- nal carotid, and covered by the jugular vein. The suboccipital nerve is one of some importance. When the texture of the medulla is affected, or either glairy or serous fluid is effused in children, so as to act on the nerve, we find that the muscles, around the foramen magnum, become some- times paralyzed, and the head falls in every direction. If death do not soon take place, the articulation is at last much relaxed, and even such a change, in the position of the processus dentatus, may take place, as shall prove fatal. There can, however, scarcely be disease so limited, as to act merely on this nerve; and, therefore, not only more muscu- lar nerves are impaired, but others also arising from the vicinity. In some adults, we find the power of sustaining the head quite lost, but then other cervical nerves are also affected; the head sinks forward, and respiration is carried on with a hissing sound, and the whole body is feeble. If this arise from induration of the substance of the medulhi, nothing can cure It; but if from the mere state of the vessels, caustic issues have recovered the patient. The first cervical nerve comes out far back, but not so far as the suboccipital. It issues obliquely downward and backward behind the transverse process of the atlas, near the spine of the dentatii; it immediately divides into two branches. The ante-138 rior passes forward, winding close by the articulation of the atlas and dentata, between their transverse processes, at the outer margin of the vertebral artery, and deeply covered by the inter- transversalis muscle, and the head of the scalenus and levator scapula*. By pressing these two backward, and the rectus major forward, with the handle of the knife, it is seen issuing, and immediately subdivides into two portions; one ascends, and forms the arch already noticed, and also communicates with the upper cervical ganglion; another descends over the trans- verse process of the dentata, and forms an arch with the second cervical nerve, as is done above with the suboccipital, whilst a third, after giving off twigs to connect it with the superior ganglion, runs down a little way behind the outer margin of the jugular vein, then turns over it, and becoming more super- ficial, inclines about the middle of the neck, a little forward, to form a loop with the descendens noni on the face of the vessel. This nerve has been called the cervicalis descendens. It sometimes arises from the second cervical, sometimes both from it and the first, and may form a higher and a lower loop with the descendens noni, from which many muscular branches go off towards the front of the throat. In the horse this nerve is very large, and indeed is the trunk of the anterior branch. It receives a large ramus from the upper sympathetic gang- lion, and then the united nerve runs forward toward the thy- roid cartilage, and thence under the sterno-hyoideus and thy- roideus muscles, down on the trachea, all the way to the stei'num, supplying the muscles as it goes along. But the posterior division of the first cervical nerve, is the largest and most important. It runs first a little forward between the atlas and dentata, and then divides into two branches; one of which runs downward among the deep muscles. The other is the Great Occipital nerve. This, which is as large as a whip cord, runs first a very little downward, then turns up over the obliquus inferior, covered by the complexus. It either passes through a slit in this, or perforates it about three- quarters of an inch below its insertion, and about an eighth of an inch to the outside of the median line or spinous pro- cess. It is for a little way covered by the splenius, then only139 by the trapezius, which it perforates near the median line, and ramifies on the occipito-frontalis muscle. The trunk of the occipital artery is nearer the ear, than either this or the little occipital nerve, running between the latter and the auricular. But sometimes a large subdivision of the artery passes back- ward and upward over the nerve. The nerve is at first more superficial than the arteries, and the veins still more so than the nerve at the base of the skull; but as the nerve mounts up, it generally becomes deeper, and many branches go below the vessels. It is a nerve of sensation. It is exposed, and may be divided, by cutting the scalp down to the bone, along the track of the transverse occipital ridge, beginning at the median line, and going about half an inch in length outward. The second cervical nerve divides also into two branches. The posterior gives off many small twigs for the muscles; but one tolerably large, ascends deeply among them, gets on the surface of the complexus, and then pierces the ti-apezius to become subcutaneous near the head. The anterior branch is the most important, and gives off several nerves. Immediately after coming out from between the rectus major and scalenus, it sends olF a large branch, which subdivides into the Little Occipital and the Auricular. The former, called also the Mas- toidienne, passes first some way downward, and then upward and backward, between the mastoid muscle and levator sca- pulae. It then gets on the splenius, on which it runs till it reach the head, when it comes out between the margin of the implantation of the trapezius and mastoid muscles, or sometimes through a perforation in the former, and ramifies on the scalp, passing first over the veins, and then below them. It comes off about an inch and three quarters below the point of the mastoid process, more or less, according to the length of the neck. In its course up, it is hid for about an inch and a half by the mastoid muscle, being overlapped by its poste- rior margin, and this readily directs us to the nerve. Whilst covered by the mastoid, it forms a connexion with the acces- sory, for by turning forward that muscle, we see near its posterior margin, a broad, flat, irregular nervous substance or plexus, formed by the two nerves, from the upper part of which,140 the occipital seems to mount up, and the accessory to go off' lower. In other cases, there is less connexion, and the occipital appears to hook round the accessory; but still there is a union, and this should be remembered in pathology. This nerve, if necessary, may be divided by cutting across the scalp, a little more outward than for the division of the great occipital. The anterior branch of the second cervical nerve having given off' the little occipital, and sent communicating branches to the other nerves, to form the cervical plexus, divides into two, which come out at the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle; the one a little lower than the other, ox*, not unfrequently, a common trunk gives them both off. The highest is the great or posterior Auricular nerve, so called, to distinguish it from the little Auricular, a branch of the portio dura, that goes up behind the angle of the jaw, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the ear. The auricular nerve appears sometimes immediately at the margin of the mastoid muscle, sometimes it mounts a little under the muscle before it come out. It appears generally rather higher than mid-way between the mastoid process and clavicle, the exact distance below the process varying with die length of the neck, and the breadth and obliquity of the muscle. It is sometimes three inches and a half, sometimes barely two and three quarters. It runs straight up, quite under the skin on the surface of the muscle, consequently obliquely with regard to its fibres, going in the course of a line drawn to the front of the process. It passes by the posterior margin of the lower lobe of the pai'otid gland. It is distributed on the gland, and on the ear and skin, near the process. It may be divided by cutting * across the skin and fascia covering the muscle below the process. The lowest division forms the Cutaneus or Supei’ficialis Colli, which often being the largest, seems to give off the auricular, which indeed is just a branch of the same nerve, although it continue for a short way hid by the margin of the muscle. This, after separating from the auricular, speedily divides into two branches, the cutaneus medius, and inferior. The supe- rior is a branch of the portio dura. The medius appears at the margin of the muscle, about mid-way between the mas-141 toid pi ocess and clavicle, a quarter of an inch or more below the appearance of the auricular. It turns over the surface of the muscle, running obliquely across it, or a little upward, to the front of the larynx. It is quite superficial, involved in the fibres of the platysma, and exterior to the external jugular vein, excepting a few fibfilae, which pass below it. The trunk is variable in size, being sometimes as large as a stocking wire, sometimes like a small thread. The branches are numerous, but small; one runs up in front of the posterior jugular vein, toward the angle of the jaw and parotid gland; others go toward the digastric muscle, and one directly forward; others downward, so that it is a very extensive cutaneous nerve. The Infimus is the lowest branch. It runs downward, and either appears at the margin of the mastoid muscle, about half an inch lower, or continues a little longer overlapped by it, and then turns out to cross the muscle. It is rather deeper than the medius, for its trunk is not only under the platysma, but also below the posterior jugular vein. The branches, how- ever, become more superficial, and some of them are above the anterior external jugular. They go to the superficial muscles and skin, and a large one runs parallel to the clavicle, about an inch and a half above it. The distribution, then, of these nerves is very simple; three run straight up, and two across ; and all of these may be the seat of painful affections. Small glands lie in the course of the trunk of these, deep on the great occipital, or laterally, and mox-e superficially, over the others. When these inflame, the nerves may be involved, and pain felt in the tract of their distribution, or the parotid gland may be tender, or earache produced, or stiffness of the muscle occasioned, or, by other nerves being sympathetically affected, more distant parts are disordered. It is impossible to specify exactly what glands may be enlarged; but not one of the nerves I have described are unconnected with glands. Farther, although no gland, deep, or superficial, be enlarged, the nerves themselves may be the seat of disease, or the arteries and veins in their vicinity may enlarge and press on them. Branches of the vena cer- vicalis profunda run in the tract of both the occipital nerves.ami cover part o( them, so that fulness of this vessel may act on the nerve. Having, at pages 15, 112, and 130, made some remarks on affections of the spinal cord, I shall here only notice a most harassing neuralgia of the nerves, which may either proceed from pressure or irritation of the trunk, or a preternatural sensibility of the branches and extremities. It often begins with a sense of weariness in the neck and head, soon followed by pain, which passes for rheumatism, more especially, as it sometimes extends to the shoulders and down the arms. It is usually worst during the night, or when in a recumbent posture. Sometimes the sensation is that of burn- ing heat in the scalp and neck; at other times of sharp pain, darting and radiating up the back of the head, and particu- larly severe about the ears, or it is that of extreme weariness and weight, scarcely more endurable than the acute pain. The sensations are in the course of the spinal nerves, and the muscles supplied by them ; but other nerves coming off at the base of the skull are brought into disease. The fifth suffers, and different parts of the face are affected with severe and deep seated, as well as more superficial pain. The eyes are pained, and the eyelids heavy, or the vision impaired; the jaw is stiff, and sometimes the mouth can be only partially opened; the tongue is white, and sometimes raw and tender; the pulse is either accelerated or preternaturally slow; the eighth pair of nerves suffer, and sometimes the sympathetic; the appetite fails; the body wastes from want of sleep and want of nourishment; the feet swell; and if the disease per- sist, the patient sinks, or organic disease of some of the viscera is excited; and although the original symptoms may be miti- gated, a new and fatal train of evils is induced. It is not easy to say what remedies can remove the complaint. It may wear itself out, but neither arsenic nor bark, mercury nor copper, nor antispasmodics, have seemed to do much good, and opium has only been of use so long as it produced sleep. The diet should be regulated, the bowels fully opened, and then kept most strictly regular, either by formulae or aperient mineral waters; change of air and of scene, with model ate exercise, are also proper; and tepid or cold sea-bathing,143 according as the one or other shall be most comfortable, may be advised. In those cases, where glands are affected, more may be done than when the cause is obscure. Iodine in them may be given, and the part be rubbed with camphorated ointment, containing a little mercury. If the attack be acute and rapid, the detraction of blood from the arm, but particu- larly from the nape of the neck, is useful, and blisters should afterwards be applied. But in more insidious and chronic cases I have seldom seen these means do good, but have found advantage from bringing and keeping out a crop of pustules on the back part of the head and neck, by means of tartar emetic ointment; a caustic issue has also done good. Temporary relief has been obtained by applying an infusion of tobacco, or smoking tobacco, so as to produce sickness. In some cases, both diflhised pain and constitutional disorder may be produced by a very circumscribed affection of the extremities of the nerve; and in this case one spot on the scalp is found to be tender to the touch, and there may or may not be slow inflammation of the cellular substance and periosteum. This is sometimes the effect of a blow. It is remarkable how speedy the relief often is, that is procured by dividing the parts freely down to the bone; the patient sleep- ing well the first night, and soon becoming free from fever. The introduction of a seton is sorfietimes followed by so much uneasiness in the course of the nerve, or spasm of the muscles, approaching to tetanus, that it is necessary to with- draw it. The second cervical nerve also gives oflF a branch, which receives additions from the third, and becomes connected with a large branch arising from the third. These two constituting the acromial andsupra-clavicular nerves, sometimes unite early, so as to form a common trunk before becoming subcutaneous, but often they only are connected by interlacements, and the former can generally be distinctly traced chiefly to the second, and the latter to the third, cervical nerve; but the proportion furnished by these two nerves is not always the same, and, in some cases, the third gives the largest one to the acromial nerve. By raising the mastoid, and removing144 the fascia below, the bare nerve is seen coming out off at tlie outside of the jugular vein, about mid-way between the clavicle and the jaw. When these two branches arise from a common trunk, that is hid for some time by the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle, and is seen by drawing it forward. If we have merely removed the skin, and left the platysma, except at that part where we expose the part, we shall, by pulling the trunk upward, render its branches tense, and raise the fascia in radiated lines. The two divisions divaricate. The one which runs most anteriorly, is called the Supra-clavicular nerve. It comes out from between the muscles, generally about a quarter of an inch lower than the cutaneus colli, and at a distance from the mastoid process, varying with the length of the neck. It passes down by the posterior mai'gin of the mastoid muscle, and almost immediately divides into a number of branches, sometimes very small, in other subjects, as large as coarse threads. These radiate forward on the mastoid, and backwards on the trapezius, and descend over the clavicle toward the mamma. They grow smaller about an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle. Some go over both the anterior and posterior jugular veins, and even adhere to them; but within an inch and a half of the clavicle they are not so near the veins. It is quite a mistake to suppose that the jugular vein is less connected with nerves than those at the bend of the arm, for both the cutaneus medius, and supra-clavicular, pass over the veins; when the neck is long, the vein is least connected with nerves about the middle of the neck. The distribution of this neiwe may explain some cases of neuralgia, affecting both the neck and mamma, and will point out the place where applications should be made. We may perhaps discover a swelled and tender gland, either deep under the mastoid muscle, and pretty far back, or one in the course of the nerve; or we may ascertain that the parts about the third cervical vertebra are tender to the touch. Neuralgia of the breast, with feeling of burning heat, without any perceptible organic change of the gland, frequently arises from the state of the intercostal nerves, and is cured by blisters applied between the shoulders. But it may also arise from the con-145 dition of the supra-clavicular nerve. The more outward branch runs on the trapezius, toward the shoulder. It is the supra-acromial nerve, and it speedily divides, also, into many branches, distributed about the acromion, deltoid muscle, and the more outward glands in the neck; and hence when these are swelled and tender, or press on branches passing between them, pain is felt in the shoulder. One branch, which is so far forward that it might be claimed by the supra- clavicular, passes down some way first on, and then to the out- side of, the cephalic vein; another passes outward, parallel to the acromion, and then winds over it, and down on the del- toid muscle; others pass more backward over the trapezius. All these communicate with the neighbouring branches from other nerves, and many of the extreme twigs are interested in injury of the shoulder, and become very sensible in certain states of disease. Thus the neck is supplied with its more superficial nerves. But I must next notice, that there are also given off, some nerves which are distributed more deeply, and belong more exclusively to the muscles. These do not always arise in the same way, but, usually, a deep muscular branch is given off from the trunk of the sub- cutaneous nerve just described. This generally divides into two, or these may arise separately, either from the subcutaneous nerve, or from a distinct trunk coming off between the scaleni, from the third cervical nerve, or from the lower part of the cervical plexus. One division, the subclavicular, runs outwards and downwards along the levator scapulae, and under the trapezius. It runs deep by the outside of the fourth cervical nerve, passing in the direction of a line drawn from the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, at three inches and a half below the mastoid process, to the clavicle, about two inches and three quarters from its sternal end; when near the clavicle, the nerve ramifies under the trapezius, some branches going under, some over, the levator. The second division is more irre- gular, sometimes a mere twig from the first, sometimes fur- nished by a lower nerve. It is the deep cervical nerve, and runs more directly downward on the scalenus, in front of the II. L140 levator. It is, in some instances, not much farther out than the phrenic; but, being smaller, cannot even then be mistaken for it. It also very soon winds more outward. These deep muscular nerves are sometimes connected with the phrenic; and, from their distribution, we may expect, when they are affected by glandular tumours, &c. to have the deep cervical muscles stiff, and the shoulder itself may suffer. I have referred the origin of the branches I have described to particular cervical nerves, but these so interlace, that they form a plexus, from which they may also be described as arising. The cervical nerves come sloping out of the gutter in the transverse processes of the vertebrae, passing between the two points of the process, and winding a little downward and backward. The three first pass out between the scalenus medius and rectus major; but the anterior branch of the first is very small. The plexus, formed by the second and third, is covered by the mastoid muscle. If a line be drawn back- ward, level with the jaw-blade, it will correspond to the top of the plexus, and it extends downward for nearly an inch and a quarter. The jugular vein almost covers it, for it is only the nerves coming off from it that are seen at its outer margin. By raising the mastoid muscle, we see the deep muscles covered by a fascia and cellular substance, through which the nerves are discovered; they are easily displayed, and the branches run outward and downward towards the shoulder. In the horse we have no cervical plexus, but the branches come more dis- tinctly off from the individual nerves. If we attend to the effect of dislocation, we shall find that if we luxate the fourth vertebra, for example, by twisting it forward on the left side on the fifth, the spinal cord will be somewhat compressed, by the back part of the former coming forward, and the fore part of the latter going a little backwai'd. It is also twisted round a little. The nerve on that side, in the act of dislocation, is stretched, but afterwards is little, if at all, extended; but it is pressed on, and that in proportion as the oblique process of the fourth sinks down in front of that of the fifth. On the other side, the connexion of the processes is stretched, or they may be somewhat separated from each other.147 The nerve also on this side is a little elongated, but it must have been still more stretched in the act of displacement. The vertebral artery on this side is a little bent back, whilst on the other side it is tightened and pressed forward, or, in some cases, ruptured. In the act of dislocation, the marrow is apt to be somewhat stretched. Reduction cannot be effected without elongation and bending a little to the other side; but there is no occasion to twist it in any degree to that side, in order to disengage the processes. There are still two important muscular nerves in the neck (besides the axillary) to be noticed, the phrenic and the accessory. The Phrenic nerve generally arises from the third cervical, but sometimes from the fourth. It receives slight additions from, or has connexion with, the fourth and fifth, and some- times the second cervical, also filaments from the eighth, and from the connecting loop between the descendens noni and cervicalis descendens. When it arises, as it usually does, from the third, it passes down a little way, between the rectus and scalenus, and then gets on the latter; and, as at this part the former encroaches on, or overlaps the latter a little, the nerve at its origin will soon appear towards the outer margin of the scalenus. When it arises from the fourth, this must still more immediately happen, and no part then goes between the rectus and this muscle. It comes in contact generally with the outer margin, about a little more than two inches, sometimes near 2| inches, in a direct line above the clavicle; but its actual origin is still higher, being in long-necked people nearly three inches and a half above the clavicle. It passes, nearly perpendicularly, down from the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, to a point of the clavicle, three quarters of an inch out from the articulation, but oblique with regard to the muscle which expands a little outward, and the tendency of the nerve is to the inner margin of the muscle, which it does not quite reach till it be ready to leave it. This it does as soon as it has got below the level of the subclavian artery, and near the end of the muscle; but sometimes it gets very near the margin, half an inch above the davicle. The muscle148 is about three quarters of an inch broad, and the nerve passes down within a quarter of an inch of the inner margin of the muscle, so tliat we may cut full half an inch of it from the out- side without touching the nerve. It passes down into the thorax as the eighth does, but differing in this respect, that the eighth passes by the inner margin of the jugular vein, and the phrenic, nearer the outer margin, or behind the vein. In its course along the scalenus, it is bound down to the muscle by an aponeurosis on the face of the muscle. It is, therefore, more covered than the cervical plexus, which is only under a layer of fascia. One branch, indeed, of the plexus seems equally deep, and it winds down, covered by this deep aponeurosis, to the outside of the scalenus, and gets under the levator scapulee to the deep muscles. In its track along the lower part of the muscle, it is sometimes covered by a vein and a gland, which, when it swells, may press on the nerve, and irritate it, or paralyze it. This muscular nerve is easily found by raising the fascia off the face of the muscle. The pos- terior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the course of the nerve, is nearly in a line with that of the scalenus, and quite covers the nerve, which cannot be seen till the sterno- mastoid be raised or turned forward. The phrenic having gone down near the inner margin of the muscle, and toward the outside of the jugular vein, or beneath it, leaves the muscle as soon as it has traversed the course of the subclavian artery, and enters the thorax between the artery and vein, on the outside of the mammaria interna, and nearly in contact with ft. It passes down to the diaphragm, between the pleura pulmonalis, and pericardium, adhering to the latter, on which it is easily seen. The right goes, more direct than the left, and runs a little farther forward. If the finger be introduced into the thorax, and the nerve pulled, it can be found just behind the sternal end of the clavicle, so that injury of the bone there, may injure the nerve. It can be traced going toward the median line of the sternum, and right side of the pericardium. It is almost in contact with the sternum, and tends a little from without, inwards. The eighth, on the other hand, lies more backwardand central at first: it is on the side of the trachea, and soon gets a iittle behind it on the spine. The phrenic nerve, in quadrupeds, arises lower; in the horse, for instance, it arises by two large heads from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which unite on the scalenus, and go into the thorax. If we divide the nerve on both sides of a rabbit, the animal breathes laboriously, but without noise, rather panting, and usually dies within twenty-four hours. The diaphragm is red, but not inflamed; the lungs redder than usual, but without effusion; serum is contained in the pericardium; and sometimes the liver is darker than it ought to be. If the nerve on one side only be divided, the same symptoms take place, but in a less degree, and the animal lives longer. No operation can safely be undertaken which is to injure the phrenic nerve. We can easily see why some diseases of the liver should produce pain in the shoulder, from the connexion of the phrenic with the nerves going there. On the other hand, affections of the higher portion of the medulla spinalis, or tumour on the neck, or enlarged glands pressing on the nerve, may not only produce difficulty of breathing, but dropsical effusion, which oftener arises from affections of the nervous system, than is at present admitted. Disease of the liver rarely causes dropsy by any mere me- chanical effect on the venous circulation. Another important muscular nerve is the Spinal Accessory, which comes off from the medulla spinalis, generally about the fourth vertebra, but sometimes so low as the seventh, or so high as the second. It runs up in the canal between the posterior roots of the cervical nerves and the ligamentum den- ticulatum, enters the cranium by the foramen magnum, behind the vertebral artery, adhering to the suboccipital nerve as that is passing out; then it becomes attached to the eighth, so that the two, as they pass out by the foramen lacerum, often seem to be one nerve. On coming out, it becomes more con- nected with the ninth, by dense cellular substance. Then it runs between the eighth and the sympathetic nerve, over- lapped by the outer side of the ganglion, so that it is partly behind it. It is connected with the ganglion and receives150 additions from it, or gives them to it. The ninth, at this part, is more superficial than all these, lying more on their front. The accessory presently comes more forward, and passes by the outer margin of the internal carotid and eighth pair of nerves, crosses over the jugular vein, and under the occipital artery, downward and outward over the transverse process of the atlas, on the rectus lateralis, a little to the out- side of the anterior branch of the suboccipital nerve, which is deeper between the recti. It crosses the vein obliquely about an inch above the peak of the angle of the jaw, passing between the point of the styloid process and the vein. It reaches the outer margin of the vein, a little below the angle of the jaw, sometimes rather higher, covered by the upper part of the belly of the digastric, which must cross it. In some cases, it passes behind the vein. It soon comes on the upper head of the levator scapulae, and becomes connected with the under surface of the mastoid muscle, about an inch and a half below the mastoid pi'ocess. It either glides along the under surface, or it passes through its substance, and comes out at its posterior margin, in order to get to the under surface of the trapezius, on-which it I'amifies, and enters the substance of that muscle, and also gives twigs to the levator scapulae. This transit of the nerve, from the one muscle to the other, takes place about two inches below the mastoid process, or a little lower, if the neck be long. If we separate the two muscles, a little, here, we see the trunk passing obliquely, and near this place it forms the connexion I have already described, with the little occipital nerve, which is sometimes so intimate, that the accessory seems to rise from the plexus there formed. The nerve may also be found by turning back the anterior margin of the mastoid a little higher. I have next to mention, that whilst the nerve is in the mastoid muscle, it gives off a large branch, which ramifies in it, and supplies it, for it only receives small twigs from the cervical nerves. This distribution of the accessory, is well seen in the horse, where it soon divides into two large bi’anches, one entering the sterno-maxillary muscle, and running down deeply in its substance, another going backw'ard to the levator humeri.151 . Some glands lie in the course of this nerve. It passes through a cluster of two or three, as it leaves the jugular vein, and one often is met with where it joins the occipital nerve. If these glands swell or inflame, the nerve is apt to suffer, and both the trapezius and mastoid muscle become stiff, and sometimes painful. A very frequent cause of stiff and wry neck, is this enlargement of the glands, when the nerve is involved, A cure is generally obtained by using fomentations of tepid water, rubbing with diluted mercurial ointment, with the addition of camphor, strict regulation of the diet and bowels, and the use of iodine internally. Contraction of the muscle, or the opposite state of palsy, may arise from affection of the spinal cord, at the upper part of the neck, or of the vertebral artery, and in some of these the patient complains of feeling of great weight in the shoulders. The occipital nerve also may par- ticipate. I must next mention, that as this nerve is passing out by the canal of the dura mater, it gives off a branch which joins the eighth, and it also contributes to the pharyngeal nerve. We can thus understand how the muscular affections I have alluded to, may be complicated, not only with uneasiness in the pharynx, and difficulty of swallowing, but with disordered function of the eighth pair. The nerves to be next noticed, not only are distributed to the neck and its blood-vessels, but also go on to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. Of these the first to be described is the Sympathetic. The superior ganglion of this nerve is always large, being seldom less, but sometimes considerably more, than an inch long. It lies on the rectus major, where that traverses the front of the transverse processes of the atlas and dentata, and sometimes even is prolonged lower. Its relations have already been so far described at page 88, par- ticularly of the upper and thickest part. From the top there ascends a branch, which, dividing into two, enters the foramen caroticum. There, it forms on the outer margin of the artery, about the middle of the canal, a small ganglion, called the cavernose or carotic ganglion. From this, twigs are sent off to tlie trunk of the artery, and along the ophthalmic artery, and152 a communication also takes place with the lenticular ganglion. Small branches go to this ganglion from the fifth and sixth nerves, or connexions are formed with these nerves and with tlie glosso-pharyngeus. In the horse, we should say, that it arose from the fifth by one long head, which formed the trunk of the nerve, passing over the carotid artery; another smaller branch passes under the artery to unite with the former in the canal. Where the artery is taking its bend, there is between it and the nerve, a plexiform substance, of a reddish colour, about half an inch long, which unites the artery and nerve, for the trunk is not lost in it, but only skirts it. In this case, the fifth pair is still more entitled to be called a par vagum than the eighth. The principal reason for attending here to these connexions, is, that they enable us better to explain some affections of the eye and its appendages, arising from derangement of the sympathetic nerve: and from the intimate connexion formed lower by this and the spinal nerves, we can understand how the one may act on the other, and both remote, and otherwise unlooked-for, affections be produced. The superior ganglion, gives off several small branches, which pass outward, and form connexions with the cervical nerves, which send also twigs to the ganglion. These outer branches are lost in the muscles. If, after carefully raising the carotid artery, we draw the ganglion and its descending trunk outward, we see distinctly several branches coming off from them, and running inwards beneath the artery. They go to the larynx and pharynx, and even to the exterior muscles of the larynx, to the hyo-thyroid space, and to the thyroid gland, and form connexions with the branches coming from the eighth and ninth, &c. to these parts. Those going to the pharynx are very distinct, and contribute to the formation of the pharyngeal plexus. From the fore part of the inner mar- gin, there are given off twigs which are connected, very high, by interlacement with the eighth, ninth, and portio dura of the seventh. A little lower, a thick pulpy branch, reddish, and somewhat pellucid, is given off, which soon divides into at least five twigs, which interlace around the carotid artery153 and its branches. This interlacement is not so well seen on the common carotid, though that vessel be more or less encircled. It is better seen on the division, particularly on the external carotid; and on the branches of this, even with the naked eye, we sometimes discover a continued and beau- tiful net-work along the thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries; but in other cases, we require a glass to trace this. Some- times we only see scattered nerves, whilst in other cases, we discover a complete and inextricable sheath. These anterior nerves, from their softness, are called nervi molles. From the lower part of the inner margin of the ganglion, some other small anterior branches go olf, which soon unite into one, form- ing the Superior or Superficial Cardiac nerve. The ganglion then contracts sooner or later, and more or less abruptly, into a trunk, which descends along the rectus major and longus colli, to the middle ganglion. If we look at the lower part of the ganglion, we there see two long nerves descending from it, the trunk of communication with the next ganglion, and the Superior cardiac nerve. This last which often receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeus, runs down, generally, by the inner margin of the trunk, sometimes partly covered by it, some- times partly covering it. It runs behind the carotid, first by its inner, and then, as it descends, more by the outer margin, and often intimately connected with the sheath of the vessel. The distribution of this nerve is very uncertain. On the right side, it sometimes continues its course by the inside of the trunk, gives off a branch which turns forward over the outer margin of the carotid, and gets on its face, and then down on the innominata, even to the face of the aorta. This branch being given off, the nerve ends by intermixing with the branches of the recurrent, at the lower part of the neck. In other cases, and these not unfrequent, the superficialis either almost entirely ends in a junction with the main trunk, at the middle ganglion, or divides into two, the smallest going down by the outer margin of the carotid to the recurrent, the largest going, with a branch from the middle plexus or ganglion, to form the Middle or Great cardiac nerve. This last nerve rarely corresponds to the description given of it, which is, that it154 arises from the middle ganglion, and passes down on the face of the subclavian, in the angle formed by it and the cax’otid; then by the outer margin of the innominata to the cardiac plexus, behind the arch of the aorta. More frequently it arises, pi’operly speaking, from the superior ganglion, as I have described, receives an addition from the middle ganglion, then passes down beliind the subclavian, in a line with the outer margin of the carotid, and, just at the lower margin of the subclavian, it joins the cardiac branch of the eighth, which passes down in front, in the angle between the two vessels, in the place assigned by many eminent anatomists for the great cardiac nerve. The junction being formed by these two nerves, and additions received from the convexity of the recurrent, the great cardiac goes on by the outer margin of the innominata to the cardiac plexus. In some instances, a small branch of the sympathetic, all we have for the middle or great cardiac, passes down in the angle, and then unites with the cardiac branch of the eighth, or these two join before reaching the subclavian, and pass down in the angle. The inferior ganglion sends off inward and downward, a number of twigs which interlace like a plexus, from which issues a nerve that runs near the recurrent nerve, and connected with it by interlacements. It is the Inferior cardiac nerve, and goes obliquely under the great cardiac, on by the outside of the innominata, toward the face of the aorta, close on its sub- stance, to the anterior coronary plexus. But this, like the other cardiac nerves, is not very regular, for it may come olF from the middle ganglion, and only receive additional branches from the inferior ganglion and recurrent, or it may be a branch of the great cardiac, with the aid of these addi- tions, passing individually as slender branches over the aorta. The subclavian artery and the innominata, and often the root of the carotid, are covered with filaments of the nerve, and sometimes twigs of considerable size spread over these. We must, therefore, in the operation of tying the innominata or carotid, be particularly careful to have the sheath fairly opened. The cardiac plexus is a broad and pretty extensive sheet of155 nervous branches, so interwoven, as well to merit its name. It is formed not merely by the sympathetic nerve, but also by tlie cardiac branch of the eighth, and detachments from the recurrent. It is placed behind the arch of the aorta, between that vessel and the trachea, at its bifurcation, and several glands lie around, and many behind, between it and the trachea. It is not easy to say what effect would be produced on the heart, purely by enlargement of these, for they are seldom much affected without other disease, particularly in the lungs. But I am persuaded, that in many cases where they cannot be considered as the original seat and cause of the disorder, they do aggravate the symptoms, and am in the practice of choosing the district of this plexus, which is also not far distant from that of the pulmonary plexus, for the application of blisters or issues, when no other circumstance directs to another place. On both sides of the neck, there is very considerable irre- gularity in the origin, and even the course of the cardiac nerves; but I am not able to say whether these have any influ- ence on the heart, either in health or disease. On the left side, the superior nerve arises as in the right, and runs by the inner margin of the trunk. It forms a com- munication with the middle plexus, and sometimes then goes on by the inner margin of the carotid, to the front of the aorta, thence to the face of the pulmonary artery, and then behind it to the cardiac plexus. In other cases, after form- ing a communication with the middle plexus, it divides into two, so that we cannot say that either of the branches arises distinctly from one ganglion or other. One branch, as the superficial, goes down on the face of the aorta; the other, as the great cardiac, behind it. These two branches frequently go down quite behind the carotid; but sometimes one turns more forward, and at the lower part of the neck, is partially in front of the sheath of the artery, which ought to be remem- bered in tying the vessel below the middle of the neck, and calls for attention in fairly slitting up the sheath, and at the same time, avoiding all unnecessary irritation. If the great cardiac branch on this side, coming off from156 the middle ganglion, or separating from tlie superficialis, be large, it receives a second head from the lower ganglion, which is all that we have for the inferior cardiac. If it be small, then, there is a large nerve given off from the inferior plexus, near the root of the left carotid artery. This, at the angle between it and the left subclavian, divides into two; one goes over the face of the aorta, the other behind it, to join the great cardiac of the right side, and form the cardiac plexus. The eighth also, on this side, sends a cardiac branch to the sympathetic. The continued trunk of the sympathetic, from the superior ganglion, runs down behind the carotid, and by the outside of the superficial cardiac, to the middle ganglion, which is so named not from its situation in the neck, for it is usually placed between the fifth and sixth vertebrae, or on a line with the bottom of the cricoid cartilage, sometimes a little lower, but from its relation to the other two. As it lies either on, or a little above the inferior thyroid artery, it has also been called the thyroid ganglion. It is small, and somewhat rounded in its shape. Indeed, it is often rather a plexus, formed by intricate interlacement of fibres, than a solid ganglion. The continued trunk, as well as the superficial cardiac, generally pass over the thyroid artery; but in a few cases, we find the trunk go behind the artery. From this ganglion or plexus, some twigs go inward to the thyroid gland, and a very dis- tinct plexiform coating of nerves accompanies the thyroid artery to the gland. From this ganglion, besides the cardiac nerve, we have either a continued trunk, or two or more branches of differ- ent sizes, descending to the infex’ior ganglion, which is large and plexiform. On the right side, it is placed behind the subclavian artery, extending sometimes a little lower, or a little higher. The vertebral artery, at its origin, lies in front of it. It is involved in twigs from it, and one slender branch runs up with the artery into its canal. On the left side, it is behind the lower part of the carotid artery, and exposed by drawing that outward. The thoracic duct is before the nerve. The connexion with the middle ganglion is not always the157 same. la some instances, the trunk of communication passes clown to it, close on the surface of the longus colli,'behind the subclavian artery, resting on the pleura. In others, either no branch, or only a very small one, goes behind the artery, and the trunk goes in front of it, and then bends back, and a little up, to the plexus or ganglion; or there may be two or more fillets going behind the artery, and one small one in front hooking round like a recurrent. From this ganglion, a short trunk goes to the first thoracic ganglion, which is placed near the head of the first rib, close by the first dorsal nerve, with which it is connected by means of short but thick communications. It is about three quarters of an inch long, and nearly a quarter broad at the upper part, but it becomes smaller as it goes down. Branches are given off from this thoracic ganglion in all directions. The sympathetic nerve does not seem to be sensible in its healthy state, for it may be pricked or pinched without produc- ing pain; neither does its division even on both sides of the neck, in rabbits, cause any apparent effect beyond what is produced by the necessary incision. This, however, is no proof that it might be cut with impunity in man, for in the rabbit, no branch is given off in the neck. We have from the superior ganglion, one continued cord running behind the par vagum to the inferior ganglion, from which all its cardiac branches are given off. In the horse, the case is similar, but the trunk is more intimately adherent to that of the eighth. In the dog, twigs go downward and forward from the superior ganglion, toward the pharynx and larynx; but the main trunk is not much above a quarter of an inch long, and immediately joins the eighth so intimately, that it seems to form a part of it; at the end of the neck a ganglion or plexus is formed by this joint nerve; and the recurrent, amongst other branches, comes off from this. The next nerve to be attended to is the Eighth. This passes down on the transverse process of the atlas, deep, between the internal carotid and internal jugular vein, which overhangs it, and partly also the artery. The eighth, nintli, accessory, and superior jugular, are all intimately connected158 here by cellular substance, as well as by interlacement of nervous substance. 'Phe ninth is most superficial, lying between the artery and vein, till it reach near the angle of the jaw, when it crosses in front of the external carotid. Just behind it, and a very little more inward, is the eighth, with the superior ganglion by its inside. The accessory here is deepest of all, and overlapped by the outer margin of the ganglion. All these important nerves, are, at this part, covered at first by the distended jugular, and only the inner margin of the carotid is seen. Presently the ninth appears, and the accessory comes forward to cross the vein obliquely. At the lower margin of the digastric, the descendens noni comes off, and runs down parallel to, and often, for a time, connected with the front of the eighth- The trunk of this last runs down the neck, between the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, deeply buried between them, but connected with the vein, rather than the artery. It is seen by separating the two vessels; and when we come near the clavicle, it is even deeper with regard to the vein, for that comes a little more forward. It either covers the vertebral artery, or lies a very little to its tracheal side; and on the left side, it crosses the course of the thoracic duct. On the right side, it passes down over the face of the subclavian artery, very near its origin, the outer margin of the nerve being about half an inch inward from the scalenus. It then pro- ceeds into the thorax, in a direction downwai’d, and somewhat inwards, toward the median line. After entering the thorax, it is at first found by the side of the trachea, but it speedily gets deepei’, goes round by the back of the trachea, then * under the division of the two bronchiae, between the trachea and oesophagus. On the left side, as the carotid, near the clavicle, is rather deeper than on the right, the nerve is there more nearly level with its surface. It passes down by its out- side, and then over the aorta. The first branch of the eighth, is given off immediately after the nerve issues from the cranium. It is the superior pharyngeal, so called to distinguish it from a smaller one, which sometimes exists, and comes off lower. It descends159 obliquely inward, behind the internal carotid, to which it adheres, and passes down by its inner mai:gin, toward the upper part of the constrictor medius. It communicates with the accessory, glosso-pharyngeus, and with ramuli from the superior ganglion. It is partly distributed on and in the pharynx, as an independent nerve, and partly goes to the pharyngeal plexus. If we carefully detach the pharynx from the cervical vertebrae, and peel oflP a thin fascia from the back of it, we see this plexus, having for its groundwork, slender branches sent from the superior ganglion. It is placed on the upper margin of the constrictor medius, in a line up from the end of the horn of the os hyoides. A lower plexus exists to the inside of the superior ganglion, nearly in a line with the top of the thyroid cartilage. The infei'ior pharyngeal nerve, where that exists, goes to it, and it receives additions from the superior laryngeal. Lower, the pharynx is supplied with nerves from the recurrent and sympathetic. The distri- bution is of importance in considering palsy and spasm of the pharynx, and the effects of tumours of the tonsil, and at the latero-posterior part of the pharynx; and the production of tenderness and redness, perhaps also of aphthae, in conse- quence of affections, produced directly or remotely, of the par vagum, &c. At this time, it may be proper to leave the eighth, in order to notice the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. This is best exposed by removing the ramus and condyle of the jaw, and care- fully examining the parts at the base of the skull, where it is found between the jugular and internal carotid. It has the jugular and external carotid to its outside, crosses inward, slowly, and obliquely, the internal carotid, and gets under the pharyngeal vein, where that is entering the jugular. It passes between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus mus- cles, and then gives off the pharyngeal branch, which runs down to the pharynx. This branch is readily found even without sawing the bone; by dissecting at the angle of the jaw (page 53), we may separate the loose cellular connex- ion of the stylo-hyoideus and stylo-glossus and see the stylo- pharyngeus more inward or deeper. Along the under or160 posterior margin of this, appearing to come at first from its inner surface, we find this branch as large as a sew- ing thread, running to the pharynx, where it is distributed both as an independent nerve, and also intermixes with the pharyngeal plexus. Its distribution is most evident about the stylo-pharyngeus. The lingual division, or continuation of the trunk, goes a little way downward with the stylo-pharyn- geus, and then forward and inward to the side of the tongue, near the anterior pillar of the fauces. It enters the tongue and ramifies in it, but we cannot trace it forward as a distinct nerve. The glosso-pharyngeus partly traverses the region of the tonsil, and may be affected by swelling or inflammation of that gland. It appears to be a muscular nerve, and con- nects the action of the tongue and pharynx. The eighth gives off veiy high, the superior laryngeal nerve, but this remains in contact with the trunk, sometimes even so low as opposite the hyo-thyroid space. It crosses obliquely under the two carotids, near the bifurcation, and over the superior ganglion, to reach that space. A little higher than the horn of the thyroid cartilage, it gives off a pretty large branch, called the external, which unites with twigs sent forward from the ganglion, and goes to the lower pharyngeal plexus, the constrictors, the thyroid gland, and the muscles covering the laryngeal cartilages. The trunk of the nerve, or internal division, goes on to the hyo-thyroid membrane, under which it passes. It first reaches the horn of the thyroid cartilage, along with the laryngeal artery, which crosses the trunk of the thyroid vein at the thyroid horn. It next runs a little downward and then forward near the carti- lage, accompanied by its corresponding vein, which runs at first a little higher than the artery, and rather to its inside, though sometimes more external. The nerve is at first obliquely before, but as it proceeds, it is situated higher than the artery, nearly on a line with the top of the horn, lower than the cor- responding vein. In a few cases the nerve has been found lower than the artery. A smaller nerve, not always distinct, comes off from the superior ganglion, and passes on above the vein. Both the nerve and artery are under the membrane;161 and the former is discovered by pulling the trunk, which shews its place under the membrane; or, by cutting the mem- brane, we trace it. Having got into the hyo-thyroid space, it divides into two branches; the one goes forward within the front of the thyroid cartilage, chiefly to the investing mem- brane; the other goes to the arytenoid cartilage, and its smaller muscles, which act as constrictors. When a tumour either forms, or extends, under the thyro-hyoideus muscle, there is, if that and the other muscles do not relax and yield, or allow the tumour to protrude from between them, not only a mechanical effect produced by pressure on the top of the larynx, but likewise this nerve is affected. The voice is changed, and there is wheezing more or less constant, and in a degree proportioned to the pressure. In removing such a tumour, we must divide the muscles completely, so as to expose it, and then we carefully separate it from the mem- brane; for so long as that is entire, the nerve is safe, and so is the artery. The only risk is at the margin, and there we may not only cut the nerve if w'e go too deep, but if we go back carelessly, we may open the thyroid arteiy. If any arterial branch be opened, it must be tied before dressing the wound, for a very little blood effused under the uniting plaster produces difficult breathing; and if the wound be not opened, suffocation may take place. The branch next in order is the cardiac; but it will be better to notice first the inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve. It sometimes comes off so high as the thyroid cartilage, but remains intimately attached to the trunk, till it pass the subclavian on the right side; but frequently its origin cannot be traced much higher than the point where it leaves the trunk, and in scarcely any instance does it pass over the artery as a separate nerve. It leaves the trunk at the under mai’gin of the subclavian artery, and immediately winds back to its posterior surface, and runs up the side of the trachea. From the convexity of this hook formed by the nerve, different small branehes are given off, w'hich join the cardiac branches of the eighth, and of the sympathetic, and particularly the branches sent from the inferior jranfflion. It therefore con- O O162 tributes to the cardiac plexus, and to the meshwork on the subclavian and innominata. Branches also go to the pul- monary plexus, trachea, and oesophagus. The ascending nerve then mounts up by the latero-posterior part of the trachea, neaidy between it and the oesophagus. It is readily found by cutting between 'the carotid and trachea, when we find a quantity of yellow fatty cellular substance, imbedded in which, at the end of the cartilaginous rim of the trachea, the nerve runs. Its course may also be seen, after separating the carotid and trachea, by pulling the trunk of the eighth, as it is passing on the subclavian, when the recurrent is rendered tense. As it ascends, it gives small branches to the trachea and oesophagus, and to the thyroid gland. In the region of the gland, it lies behind the end of the cartilaginous segment of the trachea, overlapped by the margin of the gland, but not involved in it, for although many bi'anches go off as it ascends, and are distributed, as I have said, yet the trunk does not enter into the gland, but it sends a large branch into it. It runs up at the edge of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the cricoid, within the origin of the constrictor. It may be found just by the inside of the inferior horn of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the arytenoideus posticus. It here gives off a branch which dives forwai*d between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, whilst the trunk mounts up, covered by the outer margin of the arytenoideus posticus, and may be traced inward, between the thyroid and arytenoid carti- lages, in distinct branches, to the side of the epiglottis. It supplies the arytenoideus posticus, the mucous membrane of the larynx, and partly the crico-arytenoideus lateralis, and thyreo-arytenoideus, and proceeds up on the aryteno-epiglot- tideus, toward the side of the epiglottis. Although both the laryngeal nerves communicate, and cannot strictly be said to be confined to one set of muscles, yet, the constrictors principally depend on the superior, and the dilators on the inferior. Dividing, then, the inferior, must impair or destroy the action of the latter, whilst the former, being little impaired, continue to act, and contract perma- nently, to a greater or less degree, the glottis. It is, there-163 fore, found that the division of both sets is less injurious than tliat merely of the recurrent. If only the superior be divided, then the constrictors are affected, and the animal cannot close the glottis in swallowing, so that food or drink finds its way into the larynx. It is, in our experiments, to be observed, that, after death, all the muscles being quiescent, the glottis is found neither quite shut, nor so open, as it is in inspiration, and the extent of the opening is greater in old than in young animals. Hence, the division of the recurrent is more dan- gerous in the latter than in the former. If we divide these nerves in old rabbits, there is sometimes little effect pro- duced, except occasional wheezing or croaking, and sometimes a noise like an effort to vomit, which a rabbit cannot do. Young rabbits seldom live three days, sometimes not twenty- four hours. The effects produced, are, first, difficult breathing, from the diminished power of the dilators. Even when at rest, there are wheezing and cough, and fits of breathlessness; but when in motion, there are croaking, or barking cough, and severe paroxysms of noisy breathing; second, we have inflam- mation of the larynx and trachea inditced, which increases the difficulty, for, we find the inner surface of both of these of a deep red colour, and cheesy pus is found on the surface; third, we have, probably, in consequence of the laborious breathing, an effect produced on the lungs, which are red and gorged with blood, but not solid; more or less fluid is found in the thorax. This state of the lungs very generally is produced by croup, and other laryngeal affections; and, therefore, if an operation be contemplated, in any such cases, it ought to be early performed. One species of croup is, from first to last, laryngitis, and is to be treated accordingly; but another arises from the state ot the muscles, consequent to an affection of the eighth pair of nerves. It is called spasmodic, though oftener it is rather paralytic, or, at least, dependant on diminished or irregular action of the dilators. It often arises from the state of the origin of the eighth pair of nerves, produced sometimes by the condition of the brain, of which it may be the first symp- tom; sometimes by the state of the fifth pair in dentition;164. sometimes by that of the organs of digestion; often it is an attendant on the disease described p. 112. Fits of choking, or suffocation, may also be produced by the effect of swelled lymphatic glands on the recurrent nerve, or by enlargement of the thyroid gland. This may be the pi'oper place to make some remarks on the extirpation of this gland, for which purpose, I first of all refer to pages 20, 50, 64, 98, 122. The greatest number of cases of enlarged gland are of a strumous nature. The muscles relax, and also sepai’ate, so as to a^ow the gland to protrude at different parts, and then it is covered merely by the fascia and skin. So long as no inflammation takes place, and the coverings yield, there is little inconvenience in general, except from the weight or deformity, though sometimes both the breathing and swallowing are affected. When slow and partial inflammation takes place, then, matter forms in different parts, or I have known one large abscess produced. The treatment, here, is to be conducted on general principles, and, in cases of mere enlargement, without suppuration, iodine exhibited in the usual way, is likely to be useful. It is sometimes found to be assisted by the repeated application of small blisters. In many cases, not perceptible during life, we find, on dissection, the gland more solid, and a little larger than it ought to be. An operation is never perhaps necessary in the simple strumous swelling; but the nature of the tumour may change, and the gland acquire a size, dangerous, from its pressure, and still more so, from its effects on the constitution. It is perhaps not, strictly speaking, malignant in its nature, but it is incapable of being lessened, far less removed, by absorption. It wears out the strength by its mechanical effects, and, often, by the foiunation of matter, or other changes going on in the tumour itself, it affects the constitution. There is also a risk of other glands in the vicinity swelling, and of parts essential to life, becoming involved. In such cases, it comes to be a consideration how far it is necessary, in a tumour which is not stationary, to remove it. If we decide on the operation, and the thyroid gland alone be affected, we ought to arrange our external incisions, so that they may include those which we make, first165 of all, for exposing the thyroid arteries, which, in general, should be tied before we proceed to the dissection. The superior artery is to be exposed, as directed at page 99. It goes down just behind the horn of the thyroid cartilage. It runs obliquely downward and forward, and the vein being lower, in general, is either a little more backward or lower according to the spot; but where the artery would be exposed, it is rather behind, but partly covering it. In some cases, there are two venae comites, one above, the other below, the artery, which is almost hid by them. The artery then goes on under both the sterno-hyoideus and thyroideus, and its main trunk skirts the upper margin of the gland on the crico- thyroideus, whilst another division, often large, runs down by the side of the gland, and sometimes a large branch lies behind the margin. I have also seen a very considerable branch run down in front of the carotid artery, which would have required attention in exposing and tying that vessel. It cannot, in the region of the gland, be exposed, without cut- ting the two former muscles. The thyroid artery is usually large; but in diseased gland it is often greatly increased in size, and if only a single ligature be applied, the artery should not be divided till it come to be cut in removing the gland. The vein also is enlarged, and the valve, where it enters the jugular, or joins the facial, is not even in the natural state very distinct or apparent, and it is still less so in this case. It will, therefore, be prudent to tie the vein also. The ramus thyroideus of the inferior thyroid artery arches from behind the carotid to the side of the gland, a little below the cricoid cartilage, the distance depending somewhat on the length of the neck. It is found generally between a quarter and half an inch below the cartilage, or about an inch and a half above the clavicle, a little more or less according to the length of the neck, and very often it is obliquely crossed by the omo- hyoideus. By pressing the carotid gently outward, and the margin of the gland toward the other side, the artery is seen very deep, covered by the aponeurosis of the cervical muscles. At this point the artery crosses over the recurrent nerve; but if it subdivide soon, it is usual to find one of the divisionspass under the nerve. The middle ganglion of the sympa- tlietic is behind the carotid, nearly in a line with the lower part of the cricoid cartilage; and as the ramus thyroideus generally arches a little up before it bends down to get to the gland, it is usual to find it connected with the plexus, or ganglion, which extends down more or less. The ramus passes behind the nerve, but often one division of it runs over the face of the artery, and we have a number of small branches sent off along the artery towai'd the gland. The artery having reached the gland, does not immediately penetrate it, but goes on behind it, and mounts upward, so that its branches enter the gland higher. In exposing, then, and tying this artery, we must be gentle in drawing the carotid aside, lest we injure the sympathetic nerve,' and if, on the left side, we go low, we might also injure the thoracic duct. We must divide the deep aponeurosis before we can insulate the arteiy, which should be cautiously done both to avoid the recurrent, and also to free the artery as much as possible from the sympathetic branches. The lower thyroid vein does not accompany the artery, but two run down near the front of the gland, one belonging to each side, but very near each other. These receive branches from the front and sides, and they run down in the cellular substance, in front of the trachea, under the muscles, toward the jugular, or subclavian vein, and are con- nected with a venous plexus, formed by the tracheal veins. From the sides and back of the gland, other branches arise, which either enter into these trunks, or form on each side a distinct trunk, running downward and backward. We must also recollect, that occasionally there is an azygos thyroid artery, of lai’ge size, arising from the innominata, and going up to the gland. We have sometimes, without this artery, an azygos vein going to the vena innominata. We must also remember, that there are several cutaneous branches on the front of the neck in the platysma myoides. All of these dif- ferent vessels may be much enlarged, the veins visibly so, and the arteries felt pulsating in the tumour. The nerves are also sometimes enlarged. The venous branches alone, under the muscles, and on the gland, may, in disease, be so numerous167 and large, as to pour out much blood; and, in one case, it was found necessary to desist from attempts to dissect olf the muscles, which were cut through above and below, and removed with the gland. No particular inconvenience afterwards resulted from their loss. Klein was surprised to find, that in dissecting off a thyroid gland, there was no arterial haemor- rhage. The mystery was explained, by finding that his patient had died in'the preliminary stage. Besides the haemorrhage, which may take place from distinct vessels, there is a discharge from the substance of the gland itself, and the surface to which it has adhered, so that it is not always possible to remove the gland. In such cases, after detaching as much of the tumour as could be safely done, the remainder has been included in a double ligature, and the rest then cut off, leaving the middle portion to slough. In the natural state, the gland adheres more loosely to the trachea than to the cricoid cartilage, and this fortunately continues often to be the case in disease. It is easy to remove the^ gland, in the dead subject, even if a little enlarged, without injuring the trunk of the recurrent nerve; but, if greatly swollen, it must be very difficult to do so during life; and in those malignant diseases, where the operation should be most demanded, we find that the adhesions are more intimate. We dare not leave any part of such a tumour, but require to go rather beyond its boundaries. I feel justified, then, in looking on this operation as vei*y hazard- ous, independent of the risk of hemorrhage; and, if any faith can be placed on experiments made to ascertain the effects of dividing the recurrent nerve, we must admit, that when the gland was supposed to be extirpated, either part of it which the nerve naturally skirted, and in which it could scarcely fail to have been involved, had been left, or that the nerve had, notwithstanding the bleeding and the depth of the dissection, made a most wonderful escape. Only one lobe of the gland may be diseased, and this extends sometimes laterally over the carotid, receiving motion from it, so that it resembles aneurism. There is a narrow slip of gland sometimes running up on the front of the thyroid cartilage, to the os hyoides. This may swell and insinuate168 itself under the liyo-thyroideus nniscle, along the liyo-tliyroid space. In its natural state, the side of the gland, at the cricoid caitilage, is overlapped by the mastoid muscle; and as it slopes obliquely backward, we have from half to three quarters of an inch covered. When the gland enlarges much, it may ultimately extend over the muscle, but lisually it goes beneath it, or partly pushes it outward. In its progress, it is more'' likely to go over, than under, the carotid artery, but this artery has been found on its front, or imbedded in it. It is rare for the gland to increase much, without involving other parts. Below, it may become connected with the lymphatic glands, which lie on the trachea under the muscles, and then a firm tumour may extend to the sternum. Above, it may involve not only lymphatic glands, but also the sub-maxillary, whilst laterally there are many glands, both deep and superficial, which may swell and increase the mass, and, thus, both the carotid and internal jugular veins may be encircled. On the other hand, disease beginning in the conglobate glands, may involve the thyroid, and one extensive but irregular tumour, may extend from the jaw to the clavicle, and occupy both sides of the throat. It would be folly to attempt the extirpa- tion of such a mass, whatever were its origin. In simple enlargement of the gland, it has been proposed to tie the arteries, in order to deprive it of nourishment, and diminish the action. Carcinoma is not a common disease of this gland, and when it does occur, the conglobate glands are often found already affected, or the disease too far gone, before consulta- tion, to admit of an operation. I now return to the par vagum. Nearly opposite to the thyroid cartilage, but sometimes so low as an inch above the clavicle, the nerve gives off the cardiac branch. It runs down with the trunk, and so connected with it, that it looks like part of it, till it get near the subclavian artery, on the rifrlit side. It then, or in a few cases earlier, detaches itself more from the trunk, and passes separately over the front of the artery, about a quarter of an inch out from the hifurca-169 tion of the innominata. Hei*e it is often imbedded in glands jind cellular substance. It then goes on first by the outer mar- o-in of the innominata, and then behind it. It seldom goes on alone to the cardiac plexus, but generally at the lower margin of the subclavian artery, meets the great cardiac branch of the sympathetic, and seems to form the largest por- tion of the cardiac nerve. On the left side, it comes off nearly as on the right, perhaps a little lower. It goes down close by the trunk, at the outer margin of the carotid, which should be attended to, if we be obliged to tie that artery low. By the time it gets below the clavicle, it is more on the front of the artery, and then on the aorta. It is not necessary here to notice the farther distribution of the eighth nerve, in the thorax and abdomen, but only to advert to its essential importance. The division of the nerve on one side of the neck, in quadrupeds, is seldom productive of any troublesome, far less fatal effects. But if those on both sides be cut, and particularly if a small portion be removed, to prevent immediate reunion, the animal dies. Rabbits sel- dom live beyond twenty-four hours. The first and immedi- ate effect, is similar to that produced by dividing the recur- rent; but it is more rapid, and to a greater degree. The lungs, after death, are found of a red colour, and often gorged with blood; the bronchiae are more or less filled with frothy fluid, and there is effusion of serum into the thorax, and sometimes into the pericardium. The pleura costalis is more vascular, and so is the diaphragm. The liver is darker in colour, and more turgid, and even the intestines are some- times more vascular. The stomach, if the animal have ate, is distended, but its coats are not red. The food is undigested. • O There is, however, a difference in the rapidity, and in the degree of the effects, in different animals, one cause of which may be, that in some, the sympathetic furnishes more branches than in others, which depend chiefly on the eighth. Those animals which can vomit, generally do so, or attempt to do so, immediately after the nerve is cut. We cannot tell what the consequence of dividing one nerve would be in man, for when this has been done, there has always been other injury. I170 have seen the eighth and sympathetic cut, partly out on one side, with the carotid artery and jugular vein, without any effect on the breathing, or stomach; but the person died in a few hours, apparently of mere exhaustion fi’om the loss of blood, pain, &c. attendant on the removal of a large tumour. If a portion of nerve be cut out, it does not appear that the two ends become afterwards joined by any substance possessing the property of nerve, neither does the divided nerve acquire the power of supplying the parts it goes to, with energy, like a ganglionic nerve. In other words, the divided extremity of the eighth pair, cannot, by enlargement, or otherwise, be converted into a ganglion, so as to permit us with impunity to cut the nerve on the other side, as we may do with regard to the sympathetic. The trunk of the eighth pair, like the sympathetic, does not seem to be sensible, for we may cut it, or prick, or pinch it, without causing pain; but the parts to which it goes, are sensible, as we see in spasm of the stomach, griping, &c. Does the sensibility of these parts depend on twigs furnished by the spinal nerves to the ganglion ? Pain is felt when either the eighth or sympathetic nerves are inflamed. Lobstein relates an interesting case of continued vomiting in pregnancy, accompanied with burning pain in the region of the semi- lunar ganglion, which was found inflamed. The neck may be divided into a right and a left side by the median line; and into an anterior and posterior, by the lateral line. This line is drawn from the front of the mastoid pro- cess, the head being level, to the shoulder, or end of the clavicle, at a point just back from the coracoid process. The line between these two, and which subdivides this fourth of the neck into two, is drawn from the front of the angle of the jaw to the clavicle, about two inches from its sternal end. This line will meet the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle, about an inch below the angle of the jaw, and leaves its pos- terior margin, when the muscle is broad, about two inches and three quarters below the angle. The important vessels171 and vital nerves lie, except at the top, to the front of this line, or in the inner subdivision; the cervical nerves, in the outer. In the consideration of the relation of tumours, we should recollect the natural course of the outer margin of the jugular vein, which is marked by a line drawn from the back of the mastoid process to the clavicle, at about an inch and one-eighth from the articulation. Any tumour situated in this line, or before it, must, if it go deep, have very important connexions, whilst such as are entirely behind it, even if deep, are chiefly connected with muscular nerves, and the deep muscles, covered, probably, more or less, by the trapezius. Tumours which are moveable, and beneath which we can trace the sterno-mastoid or trapezius, are situated either in, or just beneath, the platysma myoides. This may be thick- ened, and bind down the tumour, so that it may not be very moveable, and its margin may be very indefinite. But if, by relaxing the fascia, we find that we can move the tumour on the subjacent parts, and particularly, if we can trace the mas- toid muscle below it, or, when we feel the carotid artery beat- ing at the lower part of the neck, and can move the tumour without moving the artery, we may expect a comparatively easy operation. If the tumour be not hard, but either doughy or slightly tense, and perhaps appear a little lobulated, wheh the coverings are stretched, we may consider it as of the nature called adipose. In this case, even when extensive, the opera- tion is easy, and the only parts which can suffer, or will require attention, are the external jugular veins and cutaneous nerves. A free incision through the mere skin alone, deceives and embarrasses the operator, for the fascia still binds down the tumour, and, if he dissect back the skin, he does not well know where to say the margin is. If the fascia be at the same time divided, the tumour is exposed, and in part starts out. It is generally in a thin capsule, and adheres by a little cellular substance, so that scarcely any dissection with the knife is required ; the finger is sufficient, with the aid of an occasional touch of the scalpel. There is, however, often a kind of neck, or adherent base, which requires to be divided, and there an172 aiterial branch may be expected. Smaller tumours, whether solitary or concatenated, ifsuperficial, maybe either steatomous, oi the lymphatic glands enlarged and altered. Their excision is not difficult, l^ncysted tumours are frequently met with, and it is safer to cut them out than to attempt the cure by seton or puncture. I have known induration left, after an apparent cure of the cyst, which must have been dangerous in after-life. The superficial glands often swell in scrofulous children, and are seldom extirpated; but in adults they may also swell. If very numerous, we would naturally confine ourselves to general or constitutional treatment. But if solitary, or there were no more than two or three, and these shewed no tendency to suppurate, but rather to increase, I believe that extirpation, along with constitutional treatment, will be the best practice, and their removal is the more necessary, if the patient have arrived at middle age. But tumours, evidently superficial at first, may spread deeper, or the deep-seated glands may be originally affected. I think most troublesome and dangerous tumours begin in the upper third of the neck, and whatever may be their progress upward or backward, they seldom fail to increase downward, probably by irritating the glandulae concatenatae; or, one of these glands may become diseased, and draw in the rest. If w'e turn off the mastoid muscle, we observe a firm fascia, which we can trace from the jaw downward, and from the median line of the neck backward, over the sterno-hyoideus, and the carotid artery, and the jugular vein, and cervical nerves. Two chains of glands lie under this, one on each side of the vein, but generally the largest is behind both the vein and the par vagum. These glands, however, are not always alike dis- tinct, nor confined to a straight line, for they are met w'ith on the surface of the carotid artery, or between it and the larynx and trachea. It is rare to meet with glands behind the artery in the healthy state, but they may extend under it when they swell. When they do exist, in the natural state, they are met with most frequently at the upper, and under the middle part, of the artery. So far as my observation173 goes, those glands between the artery and the larynx and trachea are frequently enlarged, but in every district they may swell either individually or collectively. Tumours thus formed are most serious, and if they do not evidently tend to suppuration, ought never to be allowed to remain, if they can possibly be extirpated. The consequence of delay too often is, that an extension of the disease takes place, so that it passes to the other side, or at least involves the thyroid gland- The tumour enlarges upward and downward, and becomes so connected with the vessels and nerves, that they may be said actually to pass through it. In such a state, it would be wrong to attempt an operation, for we should require to expose the neck from the clavicle to the base of the skull, to tie the carotid artery not only below, but very high above, to pre- vent retrograde haemorrhage; the jugular vein must be tied; and we have to meet all the consequences resulting from the division of the eighth pair of nerves and the sympathetic. The ligature of the carotid artery is not so free from danger as many suppose; and yet it is, I believe, not only the least troublesome, but also the safest part of such an operation. Whenever, then, we find a tumour penetrating deep, and particularly when it moves with difficulty, being firmly at- tached to the parts below, we must, in general, decline an operation; and the rule is absolute if the tumour be extensive. The firmness of the fixture is not owing to the tension of the fascia, for no position can affect it. It is from its attachment to the cervical muscles, to the thyroid gland, and to its con- nexion with the jaw, and possibly the base of the skull. The danger, which would be great in such a case, from the ex- haustion attendant on the operation, from the certainty, that if the artery and vein both required to be tied, the nerve could hardly expect to escape, and from the extent of wound which lequired to be healed, would, if it were possible for it to be increased, be rendered still greater, if the skin so adhered to the tumour, or were so diseased as to oblige us to remove so much as should prevent us from covering the wound. If the extirpation of a tumour, dipping deeply, be resolved on, from its being somewhat moveable, and neither reaching174 so near tlie clavicle as to prevent us from exposing, if neces- sary, the carotid, nor so high as to be impacted at the jaw, we ought to begin by freely exposing the actual surface of the tumour secundum artem. If the mastoid muscle, or sternal muscles, pass over it, these must be divided, if they cannot be readily turned aside. It is a good rule neither to cut any muscle unnecessarily, nor to spare any which bridles the tumour, and would interfere with its dissection. Attention to the origin, or insertion of the exposed muscles, or to their course, if not perverted, will be of use in ascertaining the relations of the tumour. Venous, and even arterial haemorrhage, in this stage, may be repressed by the finger. The tumour being exposed, we next find its margin, and setting it free there from any remaining covering of fascia, we begin to detach it at the spot where it seems most loose, and, at the same time, which is most distant from important parts. We proceed to raise the tumour, and detach it, partly by pulling, partly by the finger, or handle of the scalpel, and partly by touches with the blade, making it a general rule to get, as early as we can, to the under margin, where the artery and veins are; and I would advise the artery to be exposed, whei-e it is entering the tumour, so as to decide whether we may safely prosecute the dissection upward, and detach the tumour from the vessels, without wounding them, or shall require, from the intimate con- nexion of parts, to tie the artery before we proceed farther. Even in that case we should not rashly detach the tumour, but endeavour to save the nerves and veins. We should use the knife as little as possible, but rather the finger, or a blunt instrument; and if we come to any firm band, we divide that, and then resume our work. Towards the front, we must avoid the thyroid gland, if it be not involved, as it bleeds much. The thyi-oid arteries may possibly be also avoided, and we must take care of the recurrent nerve. If the jugular vein be divided, it will require to be tied above the tumour; and if the carotid cannot be saved, it will also require a ligature above. The division of the nerves, on one side of the neck, is not fatal, so far as experiments on quadrupeds can be relied on; but we have no proof that it would be safe in man.175 although it has been asserted that the eighth might be divided with impunity. The plan of dissecting the tumour partially, and then including the rest in a ligature, single or double, can only be adopted, when no nerves are concerned. It must also be recollected, that sometimes the vertebral artery comes off directly from the aorta, and runs up behind the carotid, or scarcely more outward, for a considerable way; and even when it arises naturally, it may run for two inches in that direction, and require attention. If we require to expose and tie the carotid on the left side, near the clavicle, we must remember that it is deeper at that part than on the right. The subclavian is scarcely in our way; for although it be almost in contact with the carotid at its outside, and a little behind, yet it scarcely rises above the margin of the clavicle. But we must recollect the course of the thoracic duct (p. 79). When any of the deep glands suppurate, whether quickly or slowly, the matter should be immediately let out; for being covered by firm fascia, and also by muscles, unless these have separated, the matter is apt to go in a dangerous direction. It has been known to burst into the trachea, and the consequence of this may be either instantly or remotely fatal. The abscess may thus contain pus and air, and if any part of its parietes gives way, emphysema takes place. Such tumours may readily be mistaken for aneurism. They may also press on the oesopha- gus, and burst into it, or remaining hard, they cause a species of constriction of the gullet, for there are glands close by the side of the gullet, and of the trachea, under the recurrent nerve, and when these swell that nerve may be involved. Thus the bi’eathing, as well as deglutition, may be affected. Glands lie in front of the trachea, under the muscles, above, and also within the sternum. When these swell, they cannot, at least for a time, form much external projection, but will rather extend downward or laterally. It is very rare, how- ever, that they require extirpation, as they most frequently either increase so slowly, as to give little inconvenience by pressure, or they slowly suppurate. In the last case, an opening should be made early, otherwise the matter mayburst into either the trachea or chest, and the patient die suddenly. Such abscesses sometimes pulsate strongly. A complicated case, but one seldom difficult to recognise, occurs, when the aorta or innominata are enlarged, and the glands hard and swelled; there is a pulsating, irregular, or nodulated tumour produced. These glands may often be considerably enlarged, without being detected during life, as they have the muscles stretched over them. In children, the thymus gland may swell, but extirpation, although practicable on the dead, is too hazardous in its consequences to be attempted on the living subject. If we require, in the adult, to e?:tirpate a tumefied or diseased gland here, we must recollect the vascular tissue on the front of the trachea, and the situation of the great vessels, to all of which the tumour may be connected. Near the clavicle we often meet with many enlarged glands. These may interest the supra-clavicular nerves, but are more likely to be connected with the axillary plexus, and frequently produce pain or numbness in the arm. They project irregu- larly, or may be felt in the space between the trapezius and mastoid muscles, and sometimes extend a considerable way under them, particularly under the former. When under the mastoid muscle, they are not only undefined in their margin, but by pressing on the jugular vein, may produce some little enlargement of that vessel, or they may affect the phrenic nerve or par vagum. If they suppurate, they burst more readily between these muscles than elsewhere, but in general the abscess should be opened early, for it may extend into the axilla, or under the pectoral muscle, or may burst above the rib into the thorax. Such abscesses often pulsate, and have been mistaken for aneurism. If the gland be far back under the trapezius, it may end in an extended ab- scess, working its way to the most dependent, or the most superficial, part. Both the sub and supra-clavicular glands may swell from carcinoma of the breast. Any tumour seated above the clavicle, if it is to be extirpated, will require a recollection of the situation of the subclavian artery and vein, and axillary plexus, which will afterwards be pointed177 out. The external jugular veins will be more or less inter- ested in the primary stage of the operation, and in the detachment of the tumour from the subjacent parts, we have not only to attend to the great vessels and nerves, but to the deep veins, and the transversalis colli artery, or the supra scapular; and, if we come far forward, to the carotid itself, and the ver- tebral, as well as the thyroid. The distribution of the vessels here is irregular, as has been described at page 117; but in explaining the relations of a tumour, I shall take them, as they are often found, referring to that page, et seq. for varieties. On the right side, any tumour under the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the articulation, may interest both the jugular vein and subclavian artery. That artery, from its origin to the inner margin of the scalenus, is from half, to three quarters of an inch long, and the greatest point of elevation, of its upper margin, is a quarter of an inch, above the surface of the cla- vicle. It is covered by the internal jugular vein, which also extends more or less over the scalenus, according to its diame- ter, whilst the vertebral vein descends behind it. It is con- nected in the following way with important nerves. At, or very near, the angle, or bifurcation, is the cardiac branch of the eighth pair, and, often, the great cardiac of the sympathetic, separately or conjoined. Close by it, to the outside, is the recurrent, if it be distinctly separated already from the trunk; then, beyond it, the trunk of the eighth; all nearly in contact. Then, perhaps, a quarter of an inch farther out, is that sympa- thetic branch, which, like a hook, turns back to the plexus, or portion of the sympathetic nerve, behind the artery, no part almost of which is therefore free, on its front, of important nerves, whilst more or less of the sympathetic is also behind. Lastly, by the inner margin of the scalenus, we have the phrenic nerve, which descends just by the outer margin of the thyroid axis, or partly covered by it, whilst the eighth goes down by the inner margin of the axis. Independent, then, of all hazard from wounding the artery, or the vein which covers it, or the carotid artery which mounts up from the articulation, it is evident that the removal of a deep tumour here must be most dangerous; and as for tying this portion of178 the subclavian artery, it is quite out of the question—not that we cannot expose it, or turn the vein aside, without wound- ing it, although this be not altogether easy to be done with efficiency and safety—but because it is scarcely possible to put a ligature round the artery, without either cutting or including important nerves, and, most certainly, not without, even in the dead subject, greatly disturbing them. On the left side, the subclavian comes up deep, lying, in full and large- boned subjects, two inches back from the skin coverintr the clavicle, and fully half an inch back from the inner surface of that bone. It ascends by the outside of the carotid, but deeper, or obliquely behind it; and its inner margin is within half an inch of the articulation. It rises to the level of the upper surface of the clavicle, and bends outward to the scalenus. It is in this course quite covered by the jugular vein, beneath which, there lies, on the artery, the vertebral vein; so that it is difficult to expose the artery without doing violence to the veins. The par vagum which goes down by the outside of the carotid, gets at the clavicle, either behind that artery, or at least deep, and passes over the subclavian, and tlien down in the angular space, between these two vessels. The cardiac branch of the eighth, runs over the subclavian, with branches of the sympathetic; and the phrenic, passes down at the margin of the scalenus, by the outside of the vertebral artery, then on the subclavian and mammaria interna. Fi’om the depth of the artery, its connexion with vital nerves, the double layer of veins which covers it, the risk of wounding the pleui'a below, or the thoracic duct, if we go too high, I am wan-anted to say that no attempt ought to be made to expose and tie this part of the artery. In all tumours at this part, if the internal jugular vein be not interested, we are safe with regard to vital nerves; but if we require to turn aside the vein to get at any part behind it, the danger is great, not merely on account of the nerves, but also of the artery. No man should attempt the removal of a tumour in such circumstances, unless he be sure that the por- tion there is small and loosely attached; neither ought any tumour to be extirpated which would require the division of179 the jugiilitt’ vein, and this rule with regard to tlie right side is still more applicable to the left. The situation of the j ugular vein is not always exactly the same; for, wliilst, often, its internal margin at the clavicle, is only about an eighth of an inch out from the articulation, in other cases it is considerably more; usually it is near the articulation, and partly overlaps or hides the carotid artery there. Its outer margin is from three quarters of an inch, to an inch, more out- ward, according to the breadth of the vein, Avhich always covers the subclavian artery, before it enter between the scaleni, and will even encroach more or less on the scalenus, as the inner margin may be nearer to, or farther from, tlie articulation. Often, the vein near the clavicle is crossed by an arterial branch which runs inward; and farther up the neck, one or more branches, from the carotid, sometimes run obliquely down on its face. This vein is of great importance in its relations. We have seen what it covers at the clavicle; from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch higher, it has the thyroid axis behind it, none of the branches of which are seen, excepting the transversalis colli, till the jugular be raised. It also hides the phrenic nerve, which often has glands lying on it, between it and the vein. When tumours are situated to the outside of the jugular vein, at the lower part of the neck, we have both arteries and nerves to attend to. If quite close on the clavicle, and dip- ping behind it, the subclavian artery, after passing the sca- lenus, may be interested. It emerges from behind the scalenus at a point, the subject laying on the back, perpendicularly down from the clavicle, varying, according to the size, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and five-eighths, from the articulation. The last is the usual distance. The upper margin of the artery, sometimes at this point, is a quarter, or three-eighths, of an inch above the upper surface of the clavicle, but often it is nearly level with it. Should a tumour involve this part of the artery, there is no room to tie it, were it cut; and, thei'efore, if the tumour could not be separated from it, the only resource would be to tie the innominata, and this would be more than usually hazardous, if we at the same time180 required, in the separation of the tumour, to divide the deep muscular branches, or to injure any of the nerves. A tumour extending from the neck, in any degree under the clavicle, so as to be impacted there, or connected with swelled glands under the pectoral muscle, ought not to be touched. But if it only rest, as it were, on the confines of the artery, not extending deeply behind the bone, and if so loose that it can be pressed, or drawn, up so far as to lose its pulsating motion, if it had pulsated, we may, if other circumstances be favour- able, undertake its removal. Enlarged glands are often met with here, and from their connexion with the nerves, produce both pain and numbness. In cases of a strumous nature, I have known blisters and iodine do good; and if tbe pain continued after the tumour * had suppurated, or been absorbed, an issue on the lower cer- vical vertebrae has been useful, if any pain had been felt there on pressure. Sometimes many glands are enlarged here, either separately, or almost agglutinated. They extend under the trapezius muscle, forming an undefined swelling, owing to the thickness of the muscle, and sometimes they press for- ward the mastoid, and a projecting tumour, is seen between these two muscles, or extending forward under the mastoid. Such glandular swellings are generally strumous, and end slowly in suppuration. But firmer and more intractable tumours may form, and require to be extirpated, if at all moveable, and not intimately connected with the axillary plexus, which may be known by the mobility, and by the effect, of the attempt to move them, on the nerves. If firmly attached to the deep muscles of the neck, such as the scaleni and levator scapulce, if pain and numbness be produced in the shoulder or arm, by trying to move them; and, par- ticularly, if they extend forward under the mastoid muscle, so as to be, in all probability, connected with the jugular vein, we should not touch them. If the state be more favourable, the operation may be undertaken, and the tumour, though deep, exposed by drawing forward the mastoid muscle, or cut- ting only a little of the outer part of the clavicular origin, and then dividing part of the clavicular portion of the trapezius.181 The arterial branches to be attended to are the following. The vertebral is given off before reaching the scalenus. It runs up deep by the outside of the carotid, or obliquely behind it. Just at the margin of the scalenus, we have the mammaria interna, which, like the vertebral, is so deep, that any dis- section injuring it, is likely to open the subclavian itself at the same part; from the upper part of that artery, and more super- . ficial than these, though still very deep, comes the thyroid axis, which gives off branches, some of which are apt to be injured. The axis itself, which is sometimes near a quarter of an inch in diameter, is safe, so long as the jugular vein is not turned aside. The thyroid ramus goes upward and inward under the carotid; and, therefore, so long as that artery is safe, it can only be touched near the axis. The ascending branch mounts on the scalenus by the inside of the phrenic nerve. It is covered by the jugular vein, but sometimes a branch from it lies farther out than the margin of the vein. The only branches then which can be injured, so long as the great artery and vein are safe, are those which run outwardly to the neck or shoulder. The transversalis humeri, comes olF nearly three quarters of an inch above the clavicle, and runs outward and downward across the scalenus, so that about the outer margin of that muscle, it is nearly level with the upper surface of the clavicle. It passes outward, in the angular space between the mastoid and trapezius, toward the shoulder. It passes in front of the emerging subclavian, between it and the clavicle, and if it be wounded here, the subclavian can scarcely escape; but nearer its origin, it alone may be wounded in the district of the scalenus. It also gives a branch which runs inward over the jugular vein toward the sternum. The transversalis humeri is sometimes very large, but even when small, it will bleed much. The transversalis colli is another thyroid branch, and is larger or smaller, according to the extent of its distribution. It comes off from the axis fully three quarters of an inch above the clavicle. It passes outward on the surface of the scalenus, over the axillary nerves, sca- lenus posticus, and levator scapulae, and under the omo- hyoideus and trapezius. It in some cases divides into twoj182 one branch going up under the trapezius, over tlie splenius; another going down in front of the margin of the levator, toward the scapula. These two •arteries are in danger, when tumours are extirpated from the lower and lateral part of the neck. After exposing such a tumour, by dividing the fascia, we should detach it at the outer and upper part first, and use the knife as little as possible. If we be careful of the aponeurosis of the deep muscles, we shall generally avoid wounding this artery, unless the tumour have adhered intimately to it and to the muscles. We must also be sparing of the knife near the clavicle. We must recollect, that often those branches near the jugular vein, are covered by the termination of the external jugular and deep muscular veins, so that we may be more incommoded by the veins than the arteries. But, besides these branches, particularly the transversalis colli, we have often another large artery, the supra-scapular, to attend to. This comes off from the subclavian, just at the outer margin of the scalenus. It passes through the plexus of nerves, some, generally two, above, the rest below or behind it. It arches a little upward, so as to get half an inch higher than the cla- vicle, and then turns down over the levator scapulae, under the trapezius. It sinks soon, so that, often, in the course of half an inch, that is, about two inches from the articulation, it is just on a line with the upper surface of the clavicle; and as it proceeds it .gets lower, so that at two inches from the end of the acromion, it is level with the under surface of the bone. It is a deep arteiy, lying, in its course, an inch back from the inside of the clavicle. This artery must be in danger, if we cut outward from the scalenus. It is lower than the transversalis colli, and if divided near its origin, it will bleed impetuously, and be very difficult to tie, for it may retract close by the subclavian artery, or be hid between the scalenus and the nerves. If divided after it comes out from between the nerves, we must not, unless its mouth be very distinct, strike the tenaculum into it, between the nerves, but should rather look for its trunk nearer the scalenus. Its correspond- ing vein generally runs a little lower, going to the angle between the jugular and subclavian veins. The posterior183 jugular vein sweeps forward at the clavicle, and the supra- scapular runs parallel to it by its inside; so that both of these veins are in the way in operations here. The cervicalis pro- funda, (page 120,) is so deep that it cannot be wounded, unless the nerves and scalenus be cut through, and, indeed, the subclavian itself injured. The axillary plexus must be attended to. It is of an angu- lar shape, the narrowest part being uppermost The highest nerve appears at the margin of the scalenus, about from one inch and three quarters, to two and a half, above the clavicle, according to the length of the neck, and the breadth of the muscle, generally about two inches and a quarter. The under margin of the last cervical nerve, as it comes out, is fully a quarter of an inch above the bone. The breadth of the plexus, at the clavicle, is about three quarters of an inch, and its outer margin passes down beneath it, at a point cor- responding to a perpendicular line, the subject lying on the back, dropped at two and a half or three-eighths of an inch from the articulation; or, if the neck be broad and flat, it may even be a little more. The inner margin will correspond to the outer one of the scalenus above the artery. The supra- scapular is the outermost nerve. At about three-eighths of an inch above the clavicle, it begins to wind outward, and is connected to the bone by aponeurosis. It is below the clavicle, at a point fully three inches out from the articulation. Its relation to the artery must vary, according as that runs higher or lower, and also according to the point we take it at. I shall afterwards have occasion to notice the course of these nerves. The phrenic nerve runs down by the outer margin of the jugular vein; but if the deep aponeurosis be not cut, this nerve is safe. I shall finish this part, by noticing tumours commenc- ing about the hyo-thyroid space. • This is completely covered by muscles. The deepest, or hyo-thyroid, does not come forward to the front, nor back to the end of the horn. It is a lateral muscle; but the deficiency in front is made up by the sterno-hyoideus, which covers most of the hyo-thyroi- deus; and what would have been otherwise bare, is covered184 by the omo-hyoideus. The posterior margin of the hyo- thyioideiis. then, does not reach to the ligamentous border of the membrane, or to the constrictor, but a part of the mem- brane intervenes. This is covered partly by the omo-hyoideus, and partly by a firm continuation of the deep fascia. The mastoid muscle, here, overlaps the back part of the space so much, as to meet the side of the sterno-hyoideus, either com- pletely, or by the intervention of a short portion of firm fascia, by which also it is bound down to the omo-hyoideus, which lies under it. Thus no part of the space is deficient in mus- cular covering, whilst over the whole is spread a strong platysma, with a layer of deeper fascia under it. A small lymphatic gland, sometimes not larger than a mustard seed, and of a blackish colour, lies behind, or to the outside of the hyo-thyroid ligament. When this gland swells, it generally protrudes at the margin of the mastoid muscle, covered by the platysmal fascia. But sometimes it extends forward under the different hyo-thyroid muscles, and upward on the surface of the constrictor medius, or inward behind the margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle. In this case, only a small part of the tumour may be external, the rest pressing inward the hyo-thyroid membrane, the pharynx, and perhaps the epi- glottis. The finger introduced into the mouth can feel the tumour at the root of the tongue, and also at the side of the pharynx. Much distress is produced both by the difficulty of swallowing and of breathing; and if there be any tendency to pulmonary disease, that is apt to be brought into action. This, if it do not suppurate, is always sooner or later a fatal tumour, and therefore it should early be extirpated; and this may generally be easily done, as the deep connexions of the tumour are seldom firm; indeed, in several cases, the tumour has been found enclosed in a capsule. The structure is sometimes like indurated gland, sometimes softer, and of a grayish colour, and occasionally part of the contents of the capsule is thin and albumenous. Such tumours may not only penetrate deeply toward the pharynx, but also extend up toward the ear, or over the jaw and cheek, and down on the neck; and from the firmness of the fascia which covers185 them, and their deep extent, it may be difficult to say whether they be quite adherent to the surrounding parts, or move a little. It is evident, that the propriety of an operation, par- ticularly in the case of an extensive tumour, must depend on the probability of its being defined by a capsule; for if directly connected to the neighbouring parts, and shooting between the muscles, and around the vessels and nerves, it is impossi- ble to remove the whole; and if any part be left, especially if its nature be malignant, we are sure to have a return, if the patient escape the immediate risk. If the operation be undertaken, the tumour is to be exposed by a convenient incision, and if any vein be necessarily divided, both extremi- ties are to be immediately pressed with the finger. The fascia is to be freely divided, and the face and margin of the proper substance of the tumour made quite bare with the finger, or a blunt instrument. The tumour may be separated, and by slight pulling, perhaps even by its own weight, it may be drawn from its deeper recess. If not, we must not pull strongly, as that causes great pain and difficulty of breathing, but must press in the finger to ascertain how it is connected, and the cause of its detention. By tearing, or cautiously dividing, some original contraction of the capsule, or an indurated band, or by rupturing some bag of soft cellular substance or fluid, we may get the whole away. There may be very little haemorrhage, for, the tumour being in a capsule, the arteries in the vicinity are .not divided, perhaps only the laryngeal requires to be tied, or one or two enlarged branches of the primaries given off by the carotid. Indeed, such tumours, whether large or small, are removed with comparative facility if contained in a capsule. But if not, the difficulty and the danger are great; for, both the external and internal caro- tids, and jugular vein, and the eighth pair of nerves, the ninth and glossopharyngeus, may be involved, and the tumour be so connected to the constrictors and mucous membrane of the mouth, and perhaps apparatus of the larynx, that the surgeon who, trusting to the account I have given of the capsulated tumour, has undertaken the extirpation of one which is directly adherent, may, even after tying the common18() carolid artery, be fain to leave part of the tumour remaining, preferring the certainty of its renewal, or a lingering death, to his patient dying, immediately, of the operation. If a tumour in the hyo-thyroid district be small, it is easily removed by dividing the platysma; and, if necessary, a small portion of the omo and sterno-hyoideus, and perhaps of the hyo-thyi’oideus, at the same time that we press back the mas- toid. The laryngeal nerve runs close by the margin of the thyroid horn, and of that part of the constrictor which covers it. It is under the membi’ane, and is easily avoided. The artery is not always very regular in its relation to the nerve, for it is sometimes higher, sometimes lower. The nerve, which is highest at first, generally descends as it proceeds, so that it at last crosses the artery on its inside, and then gets lower than it. The artery runs on the surface of the membrane till it reach near the front, where it penetrates it. There are generally two veinous branches, one runs lower than the nerve, but partly covers it, another is first lower than the artery, and then gets on its face, so that both artery and nerve are more or less hid by veins. If the artery be cut, we must be sure to secure it before dressing the wound. In considering Wounds of the neck we must remember that the danger arises from various causes. The first and most immediate is haemorrhage, which may prove almost instantly fatal. Next, we have to attend to the effect pro- duced by the division of nerves, to suffocation, to exhaustion, with or without fever, or with more or less irritation, and to the consequences, acute or chronic, of bronchitis or larjTigi- tis. The danger is farther increased by the state of mind, which often exists, in cases of wounds voluntarily inflicted. We may also, with advantage, direct our attention to wounds where there has been a free division of the parts, or puncture, or laceration, or gunshot. Some wounds are fatal, from neglect, which might have been easily cured, had they been early discovered. Several small wounds, from the necessary loss of blood, may prove fatal, although no one individually were of importance; and187 division of one or more of the branches of the external jugu- lar vein may cause death from continued bleeding, unless the patient faint early. The introduction of air into the wounded vein is also a cause of death. A very considerable proportion of wounds are inflicted in the hyo-thyroid space. Sometimes a superficial vein runs across here between the external jugulars, and may be cut; or, if the incision go backward, the anterior external jugular may be divided. The muscles which will be cut are the omo and sterno-hyoidei, the hyo-thyroidei, and, if we go backward, part of the margin of the constrictor medius, and perhaps even of the mastoid. The laryngea is apt to be divided, and so is the laryngeal nerve, if the membrane be cut. If the wound go directly backward, any where below the level of the peak of the thyroid horn, and beyond its margin, the superior thj^- roid artery will be cut near its origin. If, on the other hand, the incision be near the os-hyoides, and go beyond its horn, it will include the lingual artery, or the common trunk, which sometimes gives off both it and the facial. The lin- gual nerve will also be divided if the wound go in any degree upward. The carotid itself is in great danger, and must suffer if the wound be deep and go far back. If the wound do not go beyond the hyo-thyroid ligament no vessel of any importance is divided. If the muscles alone be divided, and the membrane be entire, we find that a probe, or the finger pushed in at the side, presses at the side of the epiglottis, at the root of the tongue, or, if the cut have been closer to the thyroid cartilage, and pretty far back, we press in on the aryteno-epiglottic fossa. If the wound have divided the membrane, then we enter at the side, into the fossa, and thence back to the pharynx. Very little of the constrictor can be cut in those cases where the carotid escapes, and therefore although the wound open into the pharynx, little, if any, of that muscular organ may be injured. The epiglottic gland, and connexion of the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, are divided, so that the epiglottis is attached only to the os hyoides. Its connexion with the glottis is destroyed, and if the incision go far back the constrictors are cut to a certain188 extent, and we expose the side of the upper part of the larynx. The tongue and epiglottis remain attached to the os hyoides, and the laryngeal apparatus is only connected with the divided pharynx. It is possible, if the incision have been very near the os hyoides, and carried upward, when the epiglottis was turned backward, that this may be separated fi'om the os hyoides and remain attached to the thyroid car- tilage, or connected to the os hyoides by only a fragment of the membrane. But, in such an wound, part of the epiglot- tis is more apt to be cut through entirely or partially. In all wounds here the epiglottis is impaired, and in most quite unfitted for its office, so that the arytenoid cartilages alone can act. These may also be injured if the incision go close by the thyroid cartilage and directly backward; for when they are at their highest elevation they project so far above the cartilage that an eighth of an inch may be cut off; and were the incision to go obliquely inward, at the side, the quan- tity divided might be considerable. An wound at the very side can scarcely go so deep, or so obliquely downward and inward, as to cut the arytenoid cartilage without also dividing the thyroid horn. A stab with a narrow knife, within the thyroid cartilage, and directed backward and inward, may wound the arytenoid cartilage. If fairly cut off, then the glottis cannot be closed, so as to enable the patient to swal- low, at least till the epiglottis be able to act. It has also happened that the cartilage has not been cut quite through, and the loose flap has been drawn into the rima glottidis, and suffocated the person. Even when these cartilages are entire, they seldom act efficiently, and effused blood, saliva, &c. cause troublesome cough, very soon aggravated by the inflammation, which takes place, and which sometimes either extends downwards, or is complicated with inflammation farther down. Wounds here are, ceteris paribus, dangerous, in propor- tion to their extent. Some interest only the front and part of the side, not going far back. In such, the danger is less, and the pharynx sooner recovers its power, perhaps never loses it entirely; and, at all events, if the position be1S9 favourable, the most of the saliva finds its way down to the oesophagus. But, if the division be extensive, the pharynx is more injured, and every such contraction, as it still can make, will force the fluid rather through the wound than into the gullet. The patient, therefore, not only suffers from want of nourishment, but is dreadfully tormented by thirst, as well as by cough. The appearance of a person, when the head is turned back, and the wound extensive, is quite appalling, for the head, at first, seems almost distinct from the body, the face is pale, as in death, but the eye retains expression. The first thing to be done is to stop the bleeding, which is done by pressing with the finger backward in the situation of the lingual and thyroid arteries, which are the vessels most frequently opened, for few cases become the object of treat- ment where the external carotid is divided. The vessels are then to be tied. Every branch which bleeds being secured, and the wound cleaned to make sure of this, and being satisfied that even the veinous branches are not to bleed, we bring the surfaces in contact by bending the head a little forward. The lips may then be retained by strips of plaster, but in no case are stitches to be employed. A compress is next to be applied, and over all a light roller or kerchief, and the patient is to be placed, and preserved, in such a position, by pillows, as shall keep the parts together. He must be constantly attended, particularly if determined against recovery, and a bandage has been contrived, to retain the head, forcibly, in its position, but moral command is much better. We must be sure that every vessel is tied before closing the external wound, for, if not, and the membrane be still entire, it is pushed in, by the blood, on the glottis, or, if it be divided, blood runs into the pharynx or larynx. The next point relates to the nourishment of the patient. Deglu- tition is a complex process. The upper part of the pharynx being widened by the action of the stylo-pharyngei muscles, receives the morsel, or liquid, thrown back by the tongue, and the contraction, in succession, of the different portions of the constrictor, from above downward, carries the food down190 into the relaxed portion below. The muscular fibres are deficient in front; and, thei’efore, were there no solid plane alongst which the food could glide, it never could get down. 1 his is afforded by the larynx, against which the morsel is pressed. Higher, it is in the first stage of deglutition pre- vented from rising into the nostril by the velum, and from coming forward again into the mouth by the elevation of the root of the tongue, which rises to fill up the arch of the fauces already diminished by the contraction of the palato- glossi and palato-pharyngei. That part of the tongue, which is on a line with the palato-glossi is raised by them, whilst the base, behind that, rather turns backward, carry- ing the epiglottis with it, or favouring its falling back. At the same time, the larynx is brought forward, so as to have the glottis, more efficiently, under the epiglottis, when that falls back. It is also raised a little nearer to the os hyoides, but not so much, as its apparent elevation would lead one to suppose, for the os hyoides also rises. It is neces- sary to recollect this process in considering the effect of wounds. In the sound state, the food or drink can no where find a passage but downward. It is resisted in every other direction, and the thyroid cartilage is pressed close up to the os hyoides and the fossa contracted. But when the hyo- thyroid space is divided, then the elevation of the tongue and os hyoides, in the act of swallowing, enlarges the aperture, through which the food or drink is moi’e easily pressed than downward. The larynx may be still partly raised by the constrictors and stylo-pharyngei, but it is not brought for- ward, and thus the gap is not filled up. It is necessary, both in order to prevent the opening of the wound, and also to aid deglutition, if that be attempted, that we have the chin depressed so as to relax the levators of the os hyoides, and the depressors of the thyroid cartilage, and that, in the attempted act of swallowing, the cartilage be pressed upward and forward against the os hyoides. We find, sometimes, that, in wounds of the throat, the patient, when he attempts to swallow, instinctively presses his chin down against his breast. A bolus of some tenacious food is more likely191 to pass than liquids, for it requires less contraction; and, if it do not break down, it does not enter the glottis. But, swallow- ing is often impossible, or, when it is attempted, it either opens or greatly disturbs the wound, and therefore it is seldom proper to permit the effort. It is better, if it can be done, to inject, into the stomach, liquid nourishment, by a tube introduced through the nostril. It unfortunately happens, however, that in a great many cases of wound in any part of the throat, the irritability is so great that a tube cannot be borne. It produces cough, and efforts to vomit, so painful and violent, that nothing can induce the patient to submit to its use. In such cases, it is necessary to have recourse to nutritive glys- ters. Thirst must be allayed by moistening the mouth frequently, by just as much as can, in a favourable posi- tion, trickle into the fauces. Sometimes the patient, par- ticularly if the wound be lower in the throat, and the epi- glottis be untouched, gulps water freely, so as to allow it to run out by the wound, and wash his mouth and pharynx in its passage. Wounds above the os hyoides are rare, and generally they are close by the bone. The anterior belly of the digastric is cut across, and the tendon of the muscle is separ- ated from the lateral part of the bone, or is more or less obliquely cut, and the other muscles attached to the bone, are divided to an extent proportioned to the depth of the wound. It may divide the whole of the muscles, that is, sever the attachment of the tongue, and yet not enter into the mouth or fauces, the mucous membrane being left entire. If it go in, it may either pass above the epiglottis, that falling down before the instrument, or it may make a transverse slit in it, or cut off more or less of it. The lingual artery and nerve are likely to be divided, and so is the facial and external carotid, if the wound go back. Stabs at the upper and lateral part of the neck may wound the trunk or branches of the carotid artery, and perhaps the jugular vein. If there be a mere puncture there, although the artery be opened, the haemorrhage may cease spontaneously, particularly if the wound be oblique.’ In this192 case the wound may either close, and an aneurismal tumour form, or the haemorrhage may return, after the wound has begun to suppurate. Even when the wound has been made with a spear, and entered also into the mouth, the haemorrhage, although great at first, has been suspended, in one case related by Mr. Collier, for five days. The treatment is plain. If an aneurismal tumour have formed, we must tie the carotid. If it have not, and the trunk be wounded, we shall require to tie both ends ; but if only the external carotid, or its branches have been wounded, retrograde hasmori'hage, if it occur, may be stopped by pressure, for it will be difficult, perhaps, in a lacerated wound, to expose the upper extremities. In Mr. Abernethy’s case the ligatures would not hold. I have just received from Dr. Paton of Paisley, an account of a case, where the internal jugular vein was penetrated by a piece of earthen ware, and a great quantity of blood was lost. The vein was exposed, and tied both above and below the wound; and although the boy had hooping-cough, yet he did well. The ligatui'e came away in ten days. An wound across the thyroid cartilage will divide the sterno-hyoidei, with some branches of the descendens noni, and either the hyo-thyroidei or sterno-thyroidei, according as it is higher or lower, for they meet not far from the middle of the cartilage. If near the lower margin, and the wound ffo along the side or inferior horn of the cartilage, the crico- thyroideus wall be injured. No part of the thyroid gland is touched, unless a little bit of the lower horn be interested. Some large branches of the thyroid artery are likely to be cut, and if the instrument sink dowm at the side the carotid will be opened, and probably the jugular vein. The cartilage is seldom cut through; but if the patient be not very old, and the razor be sharp, it does not require much force to divide it, and, then, the particular injury, done to the glottis, will depend, somewhat, on the direction of the wound, but it is always so disorganized that, even if the patient survived, the voice can never be perfectly recovered. At page 26, there is an account of the relation of parts here. In wounds, directly or remotely, affecting the cartilages, they are apt193 partly to perish, and be thrown off, if the patient survive, but generally he dies of phthisis laryngea. If the wound go to the back part of the larynx, as that forms the anterior boundary of the pharynx, we can easily see why fluids attempted to be swallowed, should come out by the wound, although, strictly speaking, the division have been confined to the larynx. Even when the posterior part, or base, of the arytenoid, or top of the cricoid cartilage, has not been gone through, the glot- tis may not be able to do its duty, and exclude liquid. When the wound is inflicted, in the crico-thyroid space, the muscles already noticed are divided. The gland escapes,unless the incision go to the side of the cartilage. If the instrument be not sharp, and the cartilage very hard, little more than the crico-thyroid membrane is cut, for, the cricoid, rising up within the thyroid cartilage, resists the knife backward. But, it may pass over the cartilage, and down on the carotid artery. The larynx is opened, more or less below the vocal ligament, ac- cording to the length of the thyroid cartilage, but they, at all events, escape. But, although the cricoid cartilage, when hard, resist the knife, yet, it is not in general difficult to divide it, although in some parts it be a quarter of an inch thick. More resistance is afforded, by the inferior thyroid horn, which is often ossified. If we go directly back, about a quarter of an inch of the horn will be cut off, and left connected to the cricoid cartilage, which is divided behind between the ary- tenoideus posticus and oesophagus, and the recurrent nerve is cut, on one or both sides. The oesophagus, begins to rise from the extremity of the cricoid cartilage, just where the arytenoideus ends. An wound here, then opens, not into that tube, but into the very termination of the pharynx. It is scarcely possible for such an wound to be inflicted, without, at the same time, dividing the carotid. This artery can only escape, if the instrument be sunk down in the median line, and opportunely raised at the sides. If razor-shaped and drawn rather slowly across, it is possible, if the extremity be sunk, as it is passing the middle of the throat, that the weight of the parts below, might push forward the cartilage, already half divided, and make the back part a little more superficial. II. o194 If the wound be directed obliquely upward, the base of the arytenoid cartilage is cut. In an wound here, we have veinous branches, on the anterior part of the neck, divided, and branches of the thyroid artery. These are to be secured, and the farther treatment, will depend on the state of the glottis. In many cases, the patient cannot breathe if the wound be closed, as the recurrent has suffered. We are, therefore, obliged to allow it to remain open, and to take precautions to keep it from filling with mucus, or after- wards with granulations. If the patient can bx’eathe by the mouth, and the pharynx be untouched, we close the wound and keep its sides in contact by plaster and position. If the pharynx have been opened, we can hardly expect the patient to be able to breathe by the mouth, and dare only close the ex- tremities of the wound, so as to diminish its extent. If the pa- tient can bear a tube to be introduced, from the mouth or nostril, into the stomach, we inject liquid nourishment. If he cannot, we try a tube introduced from the wound, and if neither can be borne, then, we must give nourishment by glysters, and assuage thirst either by the tepid bath, or if that be not safe, by fomentation of the extremities and abdomen. The great- est proportion of such patients die, but some recover, either so completely, as to be able to swallow, the pharynx becoming, again, entire, or, they become able to have a tube introduced from the wound. In some instances, the laryngeal canal be- comes quite entire, but a fistulous opening remains, leading, by its side, to the pharynx, and often, even when the pharynx has not been opened, a fistula remains, opening into the air passage. It either at last closes, by the usual means, or becomes so small, as to give no inconvenience when covered by a bit of plaster. In wounds of the throat, the patient breathing by the wound, the glottis seems to become more quiescent, and less able to prevent the entrance of fluids, or food, in the act of deglutition, and when any portion does get in, the effort to cough and eject it, can have no effect in preventing its de- scent, for the air is forced out, not by the glottis, but by the wound. In many cases, even, of laryngotomy, much cough-195 ing is excited, by attempts to swallow, and, in some, the fluid runs freely out by the wound. When the throat has suffered much by syphilis, food or fluids, from a different cause, may enter the glottis, and the patient die suddenly. Wounds of the trachea, are generally attended with divi- sion of the carotid artery, and, if the tube be cut to the end of the cartilaginous segment, the recurrent nerve is injured. The thyroid gland stretches across the upper part of the trachea, and is apt to be cut, for, it often covers the front, to the extent of three quarters of an inch, and, at the sides, it partly overlaps the carotid artery. Even if the gland escape, the vascular plexus, on the front of the tube, must be cut, and will throw out a good deal of blood. The oesophagus is at- tached to the posterior part of the trachea, which intervenes between the extremities of the cartilaginous segment, by means of pretty firm cellular substance, and, at the sides, by an ex- tension of fascia, which passes over it, to the vertebral column. It is impossible for the oesophagus to be opened by a trans- verse wound, without dividing the carotid arteries, unless the extremity of the instrument sink down in front, so as to make a stab there, whilst at the sides, it has been allowed to rise. It may thus he opened, with a curved knife, or by a direct thrust through the trachea. If the carotid escape, the branches of the inferior thyroid artery, traversing the side of the oesophagus, are those most endangered. We have to at- tend both to the state of the trachea and gullet. If the for- mer be completely divided, the lower end recedes, or sinks down, sometimes to an extent of three inches. If only its cartilaginous part be cut, the gap is seldom above an inch. Stitches have been employed to retain the ends together, but in very few instances can they be borne. Bending the head forward, not only brings the ends nearer, but prevents the lower edge of the wound, in the skin, from curling over the end of the trachea, and obstructing the breathing, for, in most instances, the patient can only breathe by the wound. In course of time, the trachea rises a little, and the side and back of the space, become again converted into part of a tube, but the front is rarely replaced, and a fistula remains. Whenm stitches can be borne, it is suflficient to use one, with a view to retain the divided ends of the trachea, as near each other as possible, leaving the external wound unstitched, for, till the trachea have united, to a considerable extent, it is safe, to avoid closing, by plaster, or otherwise, the wound in the integu- ments. Thepatient,fromthefirst,canswallow,but the liquid or food, runs out by the wound, and produces coughing. Attempts to inject by a tube, introduced either from the mouth or the aperture, often produce so much irritation, and such efforts to vomit, as renders it necessary to trust to the insecure method of glysters. If fungi form, so as to encroach on the calibre of the tube, they must be destroyed by caustic, so as to keep the passage open. If the membrane, above the wound, become thickened or oedematous, or the glottis from this cause become contracted, a bougie should be introduced upward, to open the passage, and the wound must be kept open, both for the occasional introduction of the bougie, and also to permit breathing. There is less risk of the obstruction below the wound, but even this should be watched. If the trachea or larynx, have been wounded in two places, the intermediate portion is most apt to have its canal narrowed, and will require the bougie; or, in extreme cases, when the lower wound has become small, it will be necessary to enlarge it, or if it have healed, to open the cicatrix. In certain cases, it may become distinctly neces- sary, to perform the operation of tracheotomy, lower than the seat of the wound. In all cases where the larynx or trachea is opened, if any large vessel be also divided, or if the external wound be small, blood may flow, quickly, into the trachea, to such a degree, as to suffocate the patient, and, even if a small vessel have not been secured, death may unexpectedly take place in this way. In wounds with musket balls, there is more disorganization, in proportion to the extent of injury, and the apertures are smaller. The cartilage, may be rent or broken, or the trachea torn. If immediate death do not take place, from injury of the vessels, air is thrown out, under the skin, in expiration. Emphysema is produced, and, partly, from the pressiu e thereby197 produced, partly, sometimes, from the injury done to the glottis, thepatientcannotbreathe. Fromastate, apparently,moribund, he may be restored to comparative comfort, if not to hope of recovery, by making a free incision, over the wound, in the cartilage or trachea, or enlarging the wound in the cartilage, for immediately the respiration is relieved. The parts are then to be placed, in as natural a condition as possible, but we must be cautious in closing the wound. When part of the cartilage, or thyroid gland, is shot off, with the integuments, the danger is great, not only, from the extent of wound, but, from the effort required to heal it. In gunshot wounds of the neck, there have been instances of the ball being discharged by stool. Gunshot, are more dangerous than incised wounds, from the higher and more extensiveinflammation which follows, and they are also more apt to produce effects on the nervous system and stomach, such as globus retchings, and great sensibility of the stomach, cough, great heat or flushing of the face, fre- quent pulse, &c. Bleeding, followed by laxatives and opiates, constitute the best practice. Various sensations may also be produced, by the effect produced on different nerves, which the ball may have skirted without dividing. In all cases of wounds of the throat, it is also to be remem- bered, that the ramifications of the bronchi are apt to suffer, or even the substance of the lungs may be inflamed. On this account, as well as from the effect of inflammation of sensitive and important parts, at the site of the wound, it may be re- quisite, although the patient have lost, originally, much blood, to have recourse to the lancet, or the application of leeches, with the free use of calomel, if the mucous membrane be much affected. Some practical writers, from the risk of in- flammation, augur best, of those cases where much blood was lost before the wound was dressed; but this opinion must be taken with limitation, and, even, if depletion may be afterwards required, we never ought to delay securing divided vessels. Wounds of the side or back of the neck, inflicted by a cut- ting instrument, are to be treated as in other parts of the body, namely, by securing the vessels, and placing the surfaces198 exactly in contact. By position, we relax the muscles, but must take care, that we do not preserve the position so long, as to favour permanent contraction. Wounds inflicted, with force, so as to cut down to the sides of the vertebrae, seem oftener to produce feebleness of the limbs by concussion, than actual palsy, unless some nerve have been divided. If the shock to the medulla be greater, or if it bave been, in any degree, injured or pricked, we may have tetanic spasm, or the patient falls down quite powerless, and perhaps devoid of feeling below the head. In some cases he recovers, slowly, the power of motion, but not of feeling, or, along with numb- ness, he is unable, from pain, to press his foot against the ground. If recovery take place, it seems rather by time, and attention to tbe general health, than by the use of issues, blis- ters, 8tc., though these ought not to be neglected after the wound has healed. CHAP II. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE HEAD. Before proceeding to the anatomy of the face, it may be well to consider that of the tongue and salivary glands. Some remarks on the former, and the muscles going to it, will be found at page 55, but by a strange mistake, the muscles have been transposed. I have, however, observed the confusion in time to correct it, both here, and in the errata. The tongue when laid out, on a table, measures about three inches and a half in length, but in situ it is curved or bends down at the base, toward the os hyoides, so that it is then, about three quarters of an inch shorter. It begins to bend down, about an inch and a quarter before the epiglottis, and the surface of all this curving portion is follicular, whilst that of the rest is papillary. The posterior pillar of the fauces, is199 implanted, nearly, on a line with the side of the epiglottis, whilst the anterior pillar, is connected to the side of the tongue, near- ly, an inch and a quarter farther forward. The breadth of the tonsrue, here, is about two inches, but it becomes rather nar- rower, as it proceeds to the point, which is rounded in its shape. The frenum,is first connected to the tongue, fully an inch from the tip, and all that portion isfree, audits under surface covered with mucous membrane, whilst, further back, we see less and less of that surface, as we proceed toward the insertion of the pillar. The thickness at the frenum, is five-eighths of an inch, but toward the sides it becomes thinner. Farther back, it is thicker, but at the os hyoides it is usually very thin. When the mouth is shut, and the tongue quiescent, its upper surface, nearly opposite the front of the last grinder, becomes level with the teeth of the lower jaw. Then it rises a little higher, whilst the tip is generally turned down, within the front teeth of the lower jaw, and the portion immediately behind that, is pressed against the foi’e part of the palate, or inside of the gum of the upper jaw. A wire therefore cannot be stretched across, firom the teeth of one side of the jaw, to those of the other, without galling the tongue. At the sides, the smooth under surface of the tongue, rests on the gum of the lower jaw, whilst the slopping margin, of the upper surface, is in contact with the teeth. Hence, the effect of a jagged pointof a tooth, as a perpetual irritation, producing and keeping up a sore, and hence, also, the scolloped appearance of the side of the tongue, when by any cause it is swelled. lo examine the structure of the tongue, we may first divide it into a right and a left side, by separating the genio-hyo- glossi muscles from each other. Doing this, we find, that from the front of the os hyoides, there is sent forward, a slip of firm cellular, or sometimes almost fibrous substance, which becomes less distinct as it proceeds onward. In some ani- mals, we have a long bony process in place of this septum, which, indeed, is not always very strong in the human sub- ject. There is always more or less fatty and cellular sub- stance, found between these muscles, and, if suppuration take place in this, the abscess must be deep and long confined.200 Matter may work down, toward the skin behind the chin, but it is more likely to point within the mouth, under the tongue. Next, we have the hyo-glossi muscles, one at each side, con- nected to the corresponding surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, by cellular substance, whilst the very margin of the tongue, is bounded by the stylo-glossi; but, as these traverse the hyo- glossi on their respective sides, they are intimately inter- mixed with these last. If we separate the hyo-glossus from the genio-hyo-glossus, we find that they are connected, merely, by cellular substance, up to the under surface of the tongue, but reaching this, we discover there interposed between them, a strip of muscle much finer and more delicate in its fibre or texture, extending all the way from the base to the tip. This is the lingualis, and we have one on each side of the tongue. If we now proceed to follow the genio-hyo-glossus into the middle of the tongue, we find it ending in a firm and dense intermixture of muscular fibre, which forms a thick stratum, reaching up to the covering of the upper surface of the tongue, and adhering strongly to it. This is three quarters of an inch thick, at the thickest part of the tongue, but it be- comes thinner toward the tip and the base, where it is very thin, and connected to the fibrous substance at the os hyoides, from which the genio-hyo-glossi rise. When we examine this muscle, we not only trace the genio-hyo-glossi into it, but also the hyo-glossi and inner margin of the stylo-glossi, all of which, either contribute to form this, or terminate in it. We also find, that it is not only connected, on each side of the genio-hyo-glossi, with the strip called lingualis, but is so identified with it, that we may not improperly say, that the intrinsic muscular substance of the tongue, consists of a broad sheet, extending over its upper surface, and covered with the corium, whilst it dips a little way down, between the genio- hyo-glossus and hyo-glossus, like a keel on both sides. The thick horizontal portion, has been described as divided into a right and left portion, by a median septum, but this is sel- dom visible. It is more correct to say, that the different muscles going to the tongue, are lost insensibly in this, than that they form it. The muscular fibres of this portion, have201 no cellular sheath like those of other voluntary muscles, neither do we find any fat in packets, but only a very fine lardaceous substance, in small quantity, interposed between the fibres. The tongue is covered by the mucous corium, and epider- mis, the former of which, on the under surface, is smooth and soft, but on the upper one, is firm and thick, and into this, the muscles, forming the substance of the tongue, are inserted, from its tip all the way back to its base, where the follicular portion commences. There, the covering becomes soft and thin, and thus extends to the os hyoides. The corium, here, is about an eighthof an inch thick, with irregularitiesor projections, arising from its substance to its surface. These are follicles, and the substance in which they are contained, is often of a yellowish colour, which seems to depend on a modification of the col- ouring part of the blood. Below the tonsil, and between the pillar of the fauces and tongue, or on the tongue there, the follicles have large apertures, or resemble a layer of glandular packets. If we remove from the under surface of the side of the tongue, pretty far back, its mucous membrane, we see, at the outside of the junction of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, an oblong layer of a glandular appearance, and which receives small branches from the fifth nerve. The dorsum of the tongue, exhibits, as already mentioned, both a papillary and follicular appearance. The former, when we make a perpendicular section of the tongue, seems to consist of minute elevations of the corium, covered by epidermis. But on better examination, it is found, that the extremities of the fifth pair of nerves, and farther back, those of the glosso-pharyngeal terminate in them, and are surrounded by a delicate vascular plexus and cellular matter. The papillas have been divided into different orders, but these are not al- ways distinct. The lenticular or largest, are described to be like inverted cones; they have a flattened tuberculated ap- pearance, somewhat of a pearl colour, and are often arranged in two bands, forming an angle with each other. The apex of this is at the foramen coecum, and, there, the bands divari-cate, till they terminate at the margin of the tongue. Their number varies from twenty, down to a very few. The fungi- form, or capitatae, are smaller, more globular, and are found chiefly toward the border, and middle part of the tongue. The conical, are still more numerous, and scattered over the whole dorsum, from the lenticular to the tip. The whole dorsum of the tongue, certainly secretes mucus, but, of the papillae, the lenticular ai*e most evidently glandular. The follicular portion is softer, and, somewhat, resembles pearl-coloured vesicles, but it is not vesicular, nor does fluid issue, if punctured. Often, but not always, at the angle formed by the bands of papillae, we observe a large follicle, surrounded bv a fold of the covering of the tongue, like a kind of prepuce, which forms what is called the foramen coecum. It is placed an inch, or more, forward from the root of the epiglottis. Peeling off" the vascular membrane, from the face of the epiglottis, and raising it forward, off the base of the tongue, we expose the bare corium, and follicles, and trace the former on to the papillae. Under this vascular membrane, is seen, when we make a vertical section of the epiglottis and tongue, a layer more or less distinct, of a soft yellowish or buff substance, which is traced from the epiglot- tis to the follicles, in which it is lost, or, of which it is a contin- uation. At the angle, between the tongue and epiglottis, we have a plexus of small veins with smaller arteries. Within, or behind this, on the face of the epiglottis, is a layer of fibrous substance, which connects the epiglottis, to the pos- terior margin of the os hyoides, extending all the way to the appendices, or nearly an inch, and forming what some have called the crescentic membrane. This sends a layer forward, over the upper surface of the os hyoides, to be blended or lost in the follicles, and in the origin of the genio-hyo-glossus, which rises, fleshy, from the anterior margin of the os hyoides. The lingualis is also connected with it. The follicular layer, corium, or whatever it may be called, rises, in one respect, from the crescentic membrane, and also may be traced a little way up, on the front of the epiglottis.203 It is covered by a soft mucous membrane, and goes on, over the whole dorsum of the tongue, first, as follicular, and then as papillary texture. Behind this fibrous membrane, on the epiglottis, we see a yellowish substance, which extends down between the hyo- thyroid membrane, and the peak of the epiglottis, to the thy- roid cartilage. This, which has been called the epiglottic gland, may be considered as a part of the yellow substance, which passes into the follicles. The appearance of the tongue changes much in disease, partly, from its connexion with the stomach, partly, from the state of the fifth pair of nerves. The mucous secretion may be increased or altered in its nature, and after it is dried, it forms a crust, varying in colour and thickness. In other cases, the papillae and follicles are inflamed. The surface has a fiery or red appearance, without mucous coating. This is a frequent attendant on gastritis. In some instances, the greater part of the mucous membrane becomes inflamed, and red, with the follicles particularly so, and also enlarged. Aphthae have been supposed to be inflamed follicles, with an increased secretion distending the epithelium, but this opin- ion is not established. Excoriations begin with small blis- tering of the epidermis, which breaks and displays a i*aw' surface, and sometimes the disease goes deeper and spreads like phagedena. In other cases, we find, especially from the irritation of a sharp tooth, that an erosion forms, which goes deeper, and then it also spreads laterally but slowly, and the base becomes slightly indurated. This, at first, is readily cured, by filing or removing the tooth, but if neglected, the corium assumes a malignant action, and the ulceration stead- ily spreads, both laterally and deeply, whilst, in some cases, the lymphatic glands, under the jaw, swell. There is a great discharge of foetid saliva, much pain, and the patient at last IS exhausted. The corium also undergoes more chronic changes. I he substance becomes denser and harder. The follicles, at first, seem wider, but after a time, they are, to appearance, lost in the thickened membrane, which be- comes rough, and presently it forms a hard tumour.2(H partly projecting from the surface, and partly sinking into the substance of the tongue, or it rises like a flattened tubercle, or forms a fungiform excrescence, or pretty deep chops form, or ulceration takes place, sometimes only inconvenient, but often malignant and fatal. It is not my intention to enter into the consideration of those different states and diseases, which have been treated of in detached memoirs or monographs. I only here remark, First, they may arise from a state produced, and kept up, by the condition of the alimentary canal. Hence, the early and persevering use of laxatives, bitters, chalybeates, sarsaparilla, with, or without iodine; small doses of mercury, but not to the extent of affecting the mouth, when the hepatic apparatus is in fault, regulation of the diet, followed by different washes or local applications, may do good. Arsenic, externally, and internally has, in some instances, done good, and if the sore be not malignant, but seated on indurated corium, nitrate of silver is a useful application. Second, they may depend on cere- bral disease, either primary, or induced by the stomach, affecting the nerves of the tongue, and requiring strict inves- tigation, and the use of suitable remedies. Third, they may be connected with constitutional disease, such as syphilis, per- haps scrophula. Fourth, if they resist the use of those reme- dies, which are indicated for the removal of the supposed cause, and assume, or at first possessed a malignant character, the diseased part, must, if it can be removed, be early extir- pated. If it cannot be perfectly destroyed by the knife, fol- lowed perhaps by cautery, we must be satisfied with palliation, for, if the removal be not perfect and effectual, the state of the patient is rendered incomparably worse. If the disease be troublesome, rather than dangerous, the operation is optional. Some of these excrescences, tumours, or even ulcerated surfaces, may be easily and safely removed, by slicing off, completely, the diseased substance from the surface of the tongue. In doing this, no large vessel is likely to be divided, for the trunk of the lingual artery is deep. The tissue, how- ever, is lax, and blood will flow as if from a sponge. It may205 be restrained by pressure with the finger, on a pledget wet with a styptic. Afterwards, if the surface be not healthy, escharotics, &c., must be used. Deeper tubercles, or tumours, may also, after being trans- fixed with a ligature, or seized with a hook, be dissected out, without great bleeding, unless we have to go very deep, and especially near the median line of the tongue. In cases of extensive disease, it has been proposed to tie, previously, the lingual artery, or arteries, and should this be determined on, I refer, for the relation of the parts, to what has been said at pp. 100—103. It is seldom, however, that this preliminary step will be required, and therefore, I would point out the relation of the artery to the tongue itself, and remark, that the tongue is supplied by two divisions of the artery. First, by the dorsalis lingum, not very large, which comes off, soon after the trunk has entered under the hyo-glossus. It mounts up to the back part of the tongue, at the side, and supplies the base and part of the body of the tongue, by numerous but not large branches. Second, the main trunk or ranine artery, enters the proper substance of the tongue, about an inch and a quarter farther back, than the frenum, and runs for- ward to the tip. In a thick tongue, at the frenum, it is half an inch below the surface; and in proportion as we go back from the frenum, this artery is in less danger of being wounded by an incision, perpendicular from the dorsum, unless we go, at about an inch from the frenum, down to the extrinsic muscles. These varying in extent, according to their contrac- tion or relaxation, must alter the position of the artery, and make it ascend more directly, or run more obliquely in differ- ent states. It will also be nearer, or farther from the base of the tongue, according as the muscles are less or more stretched. In the quiescent state, the artery emerges from the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, about an inch and a quarter, or lather more, back from the frenum, or, if the tongue be stretched, fully two inches from the tip, nearly on a line in from the margin of the masseter muscle, and about a quarter of an inch higher than the edge of the jaw blade. Almost im- mediately, it begins to enter the substance of the tongue.When we talk of the artery emerging from the hyo-glossus, it is not meant that it is quite bare, on the contrary, it immedi- ately is hid between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis. If, from the inside of the mouth, we cut the mucous mem- brane at the sides of the frenum, and a little farther back, we shall come on the submaxillary duct, and fifth nerve, and may find the ranine artery, and ninth nerve, in the substance of the tongue. The artery may also be exposed, as it comes out from the hyo-glossus, by cutting through the mylo-hyoid- eus, and dissecting up along the surface of the genio-hyoideus, till we come to the proper substance of the tongue, but this we should scarcely contemplate. The actual cautery conveyed through a canula, can always stop the bleeding. It is also sometimes practicable to tie the artery where it is divided. Along with the duct, there runs from the lingual artery, at the h3m-glossus, the sublingual, to the gland of that name. This often, however, comes off, in the submaxillary gland, from the facial, and, in that case, is large and runs along with a vein, under the side of the tongue, with a prolongation of the gland, more inward, and a little higher than the duct. When a tumour or ulcerated portion is to be removed, at the margin of the tongue, it may be done by fixing and drawing it forward, as already mentioned, and then cutting it away, or, in certain cases, it has been proposed to remove it by an an- gular incision, and then by stitches, to retain the cut surfaces in contact. At a very little behind the frenum, the artery is about three quarter's of an inch, from the margin of the tongue. The ligature has been proposed, as being less formidable, and unattended with haemorrhage, unless the ranine artery be pricked. The pain, however, is great, and if the fifth nerve be included, it is extreme. This nerve, after coming out from between the pterygoidei muscles, reaches the tongue, nearly about the anterior pillar of the fauces, and not fiir from this, the glosso-pharyngeus also enters it, and is distri- buted into the substance, at the base, whilst the fifth proceeds along the under surface of the tongue, at the angle formed , by it, and the mucous membrane, reflected off toward the jaw. On reaching the tongue, it splits, and forms a lash of branches.207 wliich i*adiate or proceed inward or median, into the lin- gualis muscle and substance of the tongue. The largest of these, goes forward, close by the frenum, as the continuation of the trunk, to ramify to the tip. The ranular vein, which a lit- tle farther back, was median to the nerve and lower, now, near the frenum, gets rather higher, and then, at the frenum, rather to the outside of the nerve, though sometimes it is not more outward but more superficial. The artery is higher, that is, more in the substance of the tongue, and perhaps a little more outward, but not much. The submaxillary duct opens close by the side of the frenum, and a little lower than all the other parts. The ninth nerve, on reaching the mar- gin of the hyo-glossus, plunges into the genio-hyo-glossus, and begins to ramify there, and in the substance of the tongue* Its continuation, or largest branch, runs forward in the tongue, first below, and then to the inside and above the artery. At the frenum, it is almost above the artery, that is, higher in the substance of the tongue. For about three quarters of an inch from the tip, there is at least half an inch of the tongue on each side, clear of the trunk of the fifth nerve. The nerve is less and less remote from the side of the tongue, as we go back toward the pillar of the fauces. If we pass the ligature, or carry the knife beyond the angle, where the membrane is reflected from the lower surface of the tongue, we not only come on the nerve and the sublingual artery, where it arises from the facial, but are apt to injure the duct, near the frenum, and the sublingual gland. Acute swelling of the tongue, is sometimes produced by an affection of the fifth pair of nerves, and the appearance is much the same with that produced by mercury. The pain may be great. Glossitis may also be produced by acrid sub- stances, injuries, &c., and if the swelling be great, deglutition is prevented^ and if the base be interested, the epiglottis is pressed back, the vestibule encroached on, and the size of the rima diminished, so that it might be necessary to perform laryngotomy. Topical bleeding, by scarification, or other- wise, does however often rapidly abate the swelling. When abscess forms, I have already noticed its course.208 Ihe SUBMAXILLARY GLAND is lodged between the bellies of the digastric. It partly overlaps the sweep made by its tend- on, but does not encroach on either of its bellies, but behind, a little of it rests on the stylo-hyoideus, which generally pre- vents it from touching the constrictor. It lies partly on the mylo-hyoideus, partly on the hyo-glossus, but the propor- tion on each, varies in different individuals. Perhaps half an inch extends on the mylo-hyoideus, whilst a narrow prolonga- tion, generally, runs forward under that muscle, all the way to the sublingual gland with the excretory duct, which comes off from the inner surface of the gland, pretty far up, and also far back, and runs for\yard for about five-eighths of an inch, where it reaches the sublingual gland, passes on above it, or involved in it, to open at the side of the frenum. That part of the gland which lies between the bellies of the digastric, or is seen in removing the fascia, is about an inch and a half long, one broad, and fully half an inch thick. If the finger were pushed up from the gland, toward the mouth, it would touch the mucous membrane, opposite the last grinder, and the gland, on the hyo-glossus, reaches up within the jaw, to the membrane. It is separated at the angle of the jaw, from the parotid, by a firm septum of fascia; a thin layer cover’s the gland, and on that is the strong platysma. The facial artery, touches first the back part of the gland, near the angle of the jaw. It then runs forward through, or in a sulcus, along the upper part of the gland, from which it emerges to turn up over the jaw blade. It is accom- panied by two small venae comites. The anterior facial vein, again, passes over the jaw blade, just behind the artei’y, and descends on the face or surface of the gland, to meet the pos- terior facial. The branches given off in the gland have been already noticed. On raising the gland, and cutting through the mylo-hyoideus, to expose all its connexions, we find that it was resting on the lingual nerve and ranular vein, with merely the interposition of a thin fascia. The ninth is related chiefly to the gland, and but little to the duct, for it begins to be distributed in the genio-hyo-glossus immediately on leaving the hyo-glossus. The ranular vein.209 however, continue to preserve the direction which would have been kept by the nerve, had it gone on. So long as the nerve is seen, it is lowest and most median. About rather more than an inch forward, from the back of the angle of the jaw, and about an inch up, from the margin of the blade, we see the fifth nerve appear, from between the pterygoid mus- cles. It runs along the under surface of the tongue, at the angle formed by the reflection of the mucous membx*ane. Just to the outside of the ninth nerve, is the duct, and to the outside of that, the fifth, but this as it proceeds, gets to the inside of the duct. The duct runs on, between the prolonga- tion of the submaxillary gland and the fifth nerve, to near the front of the os hyoides, where it hooks round by the in- side of the nerve, and goes on to the frenum. This nerve, must, at first, be higher than the duct and other parts. A wire introduced into the duct, is felt distinctly by the finger in the mouth, close under the mucous membrane, where it is reflected off from the tongue to the jaw. If we cut the mem- brane, close by the tongue, we come on the nerve; if nearer the alveolar process, we come on the duct. The Sublingual Gland, occupies all the space from the mar- gin of the hyo-glossus muscle, to the frenum, or near the in- side of the chin, and it is connected by a strip of gland to the submaxillary. Its size, however, is variable, from three quarters of an inch to an inch long, and from less than half an inch to three quarters broad, at the middle, for it is some- what ovate. It is about three-sixteenths thick. It either sends a duct to open into that of the submaxillary, or minute ducts open, directly, beneath the tongue, at the frenum. The finger introduced into the mouth, will, just behind the fre- num, press on the gland, through the mucous membrane. It is bounded, before, by the genio-hyoideus, on the inside, by the genio-hyo-glossus, which separates it from the gland on the other side, and it is covered, on the outside, by the mylo- hyoideus. The submaxillary duct, ranular vein, and fifth pair of nerves pass above it, or are involved in it. When the submaxillary gland swells, or becomes diseased, It may enlarge, principally downwai’d, so as to protrude the210 fascia and platysma. But it also may extend upward, and backward, and inward. If upward and inward, it will press on the tonsil, and side of the root of the tongue. If back- ward and inward, it will press on the pharynx and epiglottis. If forward and upward, on the membrane, betw’een the jaw and side of the tongue. It is rarely that the gland is diseased, but when it is, and requires extirpation, that ought to be re- sorted to early, for it may soon extend deeply, or form adhe- sions to the pharynx, &c. By dividing freely the platysma, and the proper fascia of the gland, which may be thickened, we can easily insulate it, but if it be indurated, and universally diseased, it will be generally necessary to divide the facial ar- tery, and also the vein. We may either dissect from below, upward, and from behind, forward, which will leave the di- vision of the artery, till the last, or, we may begin from below, and behind, in which case the artery may be seen, and tied, before being divided, or taken up when cut. We must recol- lect the prolongation, which goes under the mylo-hyoideus to the sublingual gland, and if that be diseased, it will be neces- sary, perhaps, to divide part of that muscle, or gently pull the glandular prolongation toward the wound, but no force must be used, as we may affect the sublingual gland. Unless we dissect, too carelessly, on the hyo-glossus, the ninth nerve is safe; and if the tumour have not extended up, and formed connexions with the fifth, that is also safe. Much more frequently, a conglobate gland is swelled, and altered in its texture. Young people of a strumous habit, have often such swellings, which do not require any opera- tion. But, if an adult be thus affected, and if suppuration do not take place, then, if the gland increase, though slowly, it is better at once to remove it. If stationary, and not incon- venient, it is a matter of choice. On the contrary, an operation ought not to be delayed, if the tumour be increasing, firm, and becoming fixed. If neglected, the original tumour ex- tends in all directions; other glands, perhaps, are involved, and at last, a fixed irregular mass, occupies the greatest part of the side and front of the neck, becomes connected with the thyroid gland, and involves both the carotid artery and211 jugular vein. The removal is easily effected, provided an inci- sion be made freely through the fascia. This enables us to turn out the gland with little or no dissection, or at most, cut- ting any slight attachment it may have formed to the sub- maxillary. As the tumour often is exterior to the vein, even this vessel is seldom divided. The artery is safe, and only nutrient vessels are cut, though, sometimes, from the exten- sion of the parts, the facial artery is seen bare, and writhing between the horn of the os hyoides, and the submaxillary, or angle of the jaw. If any vessel bleed, it is to be carefully looked for, and tied, for, by neglecting this, the wound becomes filled with blood, which presses on the glottis and pharynx, producing a sense of suffocation, and difficulty of swallowing. When the Sublingual Gland suppurates, the abscess breaks within the mouth, under the tongue, but if it press on the glottis, we must open it with a lancet. Chronic tumours, generally, are so far cystic, that although there be considera- ble induration, yet, the greatest part is formed by thick fluid, which has, without proof, been supposed to consist of inspissated saliva. That the ducts of this gland, and of the submaxillary, maybe obstructed, and become distended, form- ing what is called ranula, I doubt not; but surgeons have gone too far, when they considered this, always, to consist in a mere distension of the duct. It is often a cyst connected with the sublingual gland, and the contents are totally differ- ent from the saliva. A mere obstruction of the duct, should oftener cause swelling and inflammation of the gland, and if the distended duct were once laid open, it should always remain fistulous, so as to prevent reaccumulation. But the cure consists in obliterating the cyst, one way or other. Concretions may form in the ducts, and require to be cut out. The sublingual gland sometimes becomes indurated and ulcerated, with retorted edges, like cancer, or fungi sprout from it, under the tongue. It should be fixed with a hook or ligature, and dissected out, but it is impossible to remove it fully, without encroaching on the tongue, so as, in all proba- bility, to open one or both ranine arteries, and cut off part of the submaxillary duct, and fifth pair of nerves. We must212 also cut close by the bone, at the chin. Hjemorrhage is checked by the cautery, which is also useful in destroying any diseased surface, which may have been left. This appli- cation does not necessarily cause swelling of the submaxillary gland. The Tonsil is a thin, ovate, congeries of mucous follicles, placed between the pillars of the fauces. The posterior, or palato-pharyngeus, extends a little forward, so that the tonsil is laid, partly, on it, and, partly, on the constrictor pharyngis, with the posterior part of the pterygoideus internus to the outside, about five-eighths of an inch before the peak of the angle of the jaw, and fully as much above the blade. The inferior palatine artery, rises obliquely behind it, and a little to its outside. The external carotid is farther back, and more outward by, at least, half an inch. The internal, is more in the line of the palatine, but a little moi’e outward. It is more in the line of the tonsil, but half an inch farther back. The pharyngea is still farther back, and a little more outward. There is, thus, an important relation to vessels, the internal carotid lying more directly behind it, the external behind it, but more to its outside. There will be interposed also here, a large vein, the internal maxillary, or one formed by it, and the deep temporal. If the finger be pressed outward, behind the tonsil, at the side of the pharynx, we may feel the internal carotid, if injected, and we more or less distinctly feel, also, the external, and the maxillary vein. The gland itself is supplied by the tonsillaris artery coming from behind. The glosso-pharyngeus nerve skirts the ton- sil, and gives branches, which contribute to a plexus supply- ing it. Small as the tonsil naturally is, it often enlarges much and rapidly, in inflammation, or appears to do so, for I believe, that sometimes the swelling, and suppuration, are in the cellu- lar substance around it. When abscess forms, it always ex- tends more or less upward, and very soon forward, so as to push forward the velum and glosso-pharyngeus, or anterior pillar. In some cases, the swelling extends even to the pal- ate. The palato-pharyngeus, is also pushed farther back.213 The swelling may likewise descend by the root of the tongue, on the inside of the constrictor, and press inward, on the side of the epiglottis. It may also extend under the membrane, between the tongue and front of the epiglottis, so as to press that backward on the glottis. Or, it may press down, and a little forward, the mucous membrane and constrictor, above the submaxillary, or may press out the constrictor, just above the sweep of the digastric muscle, passing between the stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus, but confined long by the constrictor and fascia. This inflammation is not always caused by cold, but sometimes, and especially when in the circumjacent tissue, by fish bones, or even a bit of the beard of barley, sticking in the tonsil, and the effect naturally will vary with the extent of disease. Often, there is great difficulty of swallowing, and much of the liquid returns by the nostril, or there may be great difficulty of breathing; frequently, from the state of the pterygoid muscle, it is impossible to open the mouth, and sometimes the jaw remains stiff, long after the abscess bursts. In two instances, I have known the patient suddenly suffocated by the pus entering the glottis. It is seldom necessary to puncture the abscess, but when it is, we should do so, if possible, just behind the anterior pillar, not before it, through the distended velum. There is no fear of wounding any artery, unless we transfix the abscess, and direct the point of the instrument obliquely outward. Chronic enlargement of the tonsil, is very common, par- ticularly in strumous habits, and such are often peculiarly liable to suppuration. If the tonsil acquire a large size, it produces difficulty of swallowing, perhaps of breathing, par- ticularly when asleep, and also affects the speech. Should it be necessary to remove a portion of the tumour, it may be safely done by laying hold of it with a hook, and cutting off with a probe-pointed bistoury, the prominent part. By at- tending to the relation of the tonsil to the vessels, we are in no danger of injuring them, and need only divide the branches of the arteria tonsillaris, the bleeding from which may be readily checked by an astringent. The tumour cannot be safely entirely dissected out, but what remains, generally, cica-214 trizes, not being of a malignant nature. It may, however, require to be cut again. On looking into the mouth, we see on the back of the pharynx, a thin packet of follicles, called by Dr. Hunter, a third tonsil. When these are swelled, and covered with mucus, they are apt to be mistaken for ulceration of the part; a state, which may be produced both by struma and syphilis. The Parotid Gland may be considered, here, with more propriety, than afterwards. It divides itself into two portions, that which appears on removing the skin and fascia, and that which sinks deep. The superficial part, extends from the zygoma, for it does not pass above it, not only to the angle of the jaw, but sometimes even to three quarters of an inch below it. At the top, it is somewhat rounded, but from that to the angle of the jaw, it sometimes continues nearly of the same breadth, namely, an inch, though the part opposite the lobe of the ear, is often fully half an inch broader. When it extends beyond the jaw, it ends in a peak not above half an inch broad. This is called the descending lobe of the gland. It seldom covers a great part of the breadth of the masseter muscle, rarely above a third of it, for a considera- ble portion occupies the space between the ear and the ramus of the jaw. Its direction is downward and obliquely back- ward, so that it does not, in the least, encroach on the angle of the jaw, but passes backward, so as generally to rest on the front of the upper part of the mastoid muscle, whilst a part shoots in, below that muscle, between it and the belly of the digastric. In a few cases, the gland does little more than skirt the margin of the muscle. From the anterior margin of the gland, the duct proceeds, either accompanied, for more than half an inch, by a prolong- ation of the gland on it, or along the upper margin, or, a more insulated portion of gland, called socia parotidis lies on it. The duct, like the gland, is covered by fascia, and so imbedded in fat, as to be indistinct, till cleared. Its coats are pretty thick, and lined with mucous membrane. It glides down, over the masseter, on the buccinator, on which it runs215 for from a quarter to half an inch, connected to it by fascia, and passes through the muscle, at last, in a slanting direction, to open on the inside of the cheek, on a level with the margin of the gum of the upper jaw, opposite the anterior margin of the second grinder from behind. A small silver probe can be admitted into the duct, but its orifice is contracted, so that it only admits a small wire, or one of Anel’s probes. The course of the duct, is in a line drawn from the top of the lobe of the ear, to a little below the wing of the nose. It runs about an inch below the zygoma. The transversalis artery is higher, and different branches of the portio dura run forward, some with the duct, and the largest, either in a manner covers the artery, or is a little lower. The transver- salis veins accompany the artery, but are sometimes near the duct, and the facial vein crosses its very extremity, at the buccinator muscle. Farther. The gland sinks down between the meatus auditorius, root of the condyle, and zygoma, plunging deeply into the hollow formed between the ear and the jaw bone, and adheres firmly to the parts it is in contact with, the root of the zygoma, the meatus, the capsule of the joint, and it even winds, a very little, under, or within the ramus of the jaw. It will simplify the farther consideration, to notice, first, the relation to the fascia. The gland has no distinct or pro- per capsule. The exterior or anterior surface, is covered by the platysmal fascia, firm and strong, constituting what is called the parotid fascia, which is merely the fascia of the face, strong at this part. We shall best understand the relation of the fascia to the gland, by tracing it up from the neck. We find, that when it reaches to the inferior extremity of the gland, it passes over it as an exterior covering, extending backward to the mastoid muscle, and forward, and upward, over the chin and face. Besides this main or outer sheet, there is given off an inner layer, which passes up along the under surface, of the descending lobe of the gland, and under that part which extends below the mastoid muscle. It is, toward the front, lost in the septum, which divides the parotidfrom the submaxillary gland. This inner lining of the gland, is generally distinct, till we come up to the posterior belly of the digastric, where it is little more than cellular sub- stance, and higher, it is entirely cellular. Immediately above the digastric, the gland, with this thin cellular continuation, rests on the styloid expansion, which may, therefore, up to the styloid process, be considered as a posterior defence, or partial capsule to the gland; and as this is inserted into the ramus of the jaw, up to near its neck, it will shut out the gland from all communication with the mouth, or pterygoid and pharyngeal muscles. Thus, the gland rests on a layer of fascia, all the way forward, to the ramus. Next, let us at- tend to that portion which is before the ramus, on the mas- seter muscle. We find that a thin masseteric fascia, or layer, extends between the muscle and the gland, all the way back to the ramus, adhering to the muscle, and then reflected forward, along the under surface of the gland, but sometimes this is not distinct, and only one layer is found, adhering more to the gland, than to the muscle. When we dissect off the gland to the ramus, and turn it back, this layer is turned back with it, but is fixed at the ramus. We throw back it and the gland, like the leaf of a book, and feel, behind the angle of reflection of this fascia, the carotid artery, or, if we cut the attachment of the fascia to the ramus, the artery is then dis- covered, lying between the gland, and the styloid expansion, for it does not enter into the substance of the gland, till about three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw. Up, then, to this part, and to where the styloid expansion, in any indi- vidual, terminates, we have the gland, in its natural state, shut out from immediate contact with important parts. Near the condyle, and about the neck of the bone, it is less definite, adheres more strongly to the neighbouring parts, and adapts its shape to them. The internal maxillary artery passes for- ward here, and, for a very little way, a portion of gland accompanies it. At first sight, we should say that it went on with it, but it is only little packets of cellular substance. Still, it must be recollected, that when enlarged, the gland may go in this direction.217 The occipital artery, is hid by the parotid gland, in its re~ gion. The external cai'otid, passes up under or within the descending lobe, and enters the substance of the gland, per- haps near an inch and a half from its lower extremity, or about three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw'. In the gland it gives off the posterior auris, the internal maxillary, transversalis fasciei, and temporal. Hence it fol- lows, that so far as the arteries are concerned, we may raise up the parotid gland, for at least an inch, without injuring these. The superficial temporal vein crosses the root of the zygo- ma, and soon, if not immediately, enters the substance of the gland, passes down in it, sometimes to the extremity of the descending lobe, but in other cases, it comes to the inner surface of the gland, where the external carotid enters, and runs down between the substance of the gland, and the fascia which lines its descending portion, or, if in the proper sub- stance, it is very near the inner surface. In the substance of the gland, this, which is called the posterior facial vein, and which forms one of the external jugulars, receives the trans- versalis fasciei, and small masseteric veins, and often the inter- nal maxillary. At other times, the internal maxillary, or deep temporal vein, meets the artery, in the substance of the gland, and descends with it, within the styloid and digastric mus- cles, as accompanying veins, and enters the internal jugular. Sometimes the anterior facial is so far connected with the descending lobe, that it passes more in the course of the facial artery, along the upper surface of the submaxillary gland, and then under the fascia, on which the lobe lies, to enter the internal jugular. Next, with regard to nerves, the portio dura comes out of the foramen stylo-mastoideum, fully a quarter of an inch above the end of the mastoid process, consequently, lower than the meatus. It enters the gland behind the posterior facial vein, and speedily divides into its different branches. It is so strong, and so intimately connected with the gland, that, as it is passing into it, by a hook put under it, we can easily raise the head. The superficial temporal, from the^18 third branch of the fifth pair, passes back into tiie substance of the upper part of the gland, sends communicating branches to the portio dura, and then pierces the gland below the zygoma, to ramify on the temple. The auricular, from the second cervical nerve, runs up by the posterior margin of the gland, involved in it, and partly distributed on it. In some cases, it does not actually touch the gland, till nearly three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw. Next, amongst important parts, connected with the gland, are the lymphatic glands. One, lies on the surface of the gland, nearly opposite the antitragus. One or two, lie partly under the descending lobe, partly under the margin of the mastoid muscle. Sometimes, one is situated between this gland and the submaxillary, or some are, not very regu- larly, situated about, or on the margin of the lower lobe. All these are most important in disease. Lastly, before considering the practicability of extirpation, it will be well to note what parts are seen, when the gland is dissected out, in the dead subject, and we shall, by the styloid process, divide the space into two portions. First, this pi’O- cess runs obliquely down, about three-eighths of an inch within the ramus of the jaw. Above this, we find a deep space, bounded, behind, by the meatus auditorius, which has been cleaned, above, by the zygoma, before, by the condyle and cervix of the jaw, and below, by the styloid process. Between this process and the cervix, or upper part of the ramus, we have the remains of the styloid expansion, and higher, where that is deficient or cut, we see the posterior margin of the pterygoideus internus, covered by fatty cellular substance, but no vestige of gland. Deep, and behind, we may detect the cut trunk of the portio dura. The internal carotid is safe, unless the knife have unnecessarily been pushed obliquely back. At the under margin of the root of the zygoma, we see the end of the superficial temporal, or pos- terior facial, vein, and of the divided carotid, as it was issu- ing from the gland. In front, and below the condyle, we see the cut ends of the internal maxillary artery and vein, and a little higher, we see the temporal branch of the third219 division of the fiftli pair. Its other cut end will be seen at the zygoma. On the masseter, we find the remains of the transversalis artery and vein, branches of the portio dura, and the remains of the duct. Just below the styloid process, between it and the margin of the digastric, appears the mouth of the divided external carotid, with accompanying veins. Second, going downward from the process, toward the neck, we see closely adhering to the process, and running in the same direction, the styloid muscles, then the digastric, and still lower, a sheet of fascia, covering vessels, but no bare ves- sel is seen. The gland, here, then, has been resting on the process, on the muscles, and on a layer of fatty cellular sub- stance and fascia. Removing the layer of fascia, and press- ing up a little the digastric, we see the external carotid in its way up to that part of the gland, where it enters, and where it had been divided, and if the facial come off, or run high, as it sometimes does, it is nearly parallel with the carotid, behind the angle of the jaw. Behind, and to the outside of the carotid, is the jugular, with the internal carotid, more inward, so that it is hid by the vein, till that be drawn aside, neither is the eighth nerve seen, and still less, the sympa- thetic ganglion. In a few instances, the eighth is seen more superficial. The ninth nerve and occipital artery, are also seen, and the accessory, where that nerve does not pass behind the vein. It thus appears, that the parts, inevitably to be cut, are the posterior facial vein, the external carotid artery, and the branches it gives off in the gland, with the accompanying veins, and the nerves connected with the gland. The sound gland may then be extirpated, without injury to any vital part, and, supposing the gland to be affected by a malignant disease, but not altered in its relations, the only objection which can be brought against extirpation, is, that some granule of the gland, may, notwithstanding, all our care and scraping, be left behind, an objection not sufficient to forbid an operation. "When the gland becomes diseased and enlarged, it may swell most, outwardly and forward, over the masseter, anddown on the neck, but it may also extend deeply, and then we find, that above, it might come forward on the ptery- goideus internus, reach the tonsil, and press on the pharynx. Lower, it may involve the submaxillai’y gland, or press for- ward the septum, which separates them, and go upward along the pterygoideus, to the side of the root of the tongue. But, much more fx'equently, the disease begins, not in the parotid gland, but in the conglobate gland. That one, on the face or surface of the gland often swells, and in young strumous people, it may slowly suppurate. But in adults, it is more likely to enlarge slowly, and, therefore, if it neither be diminished by treatment, nor tend to suppuration, but become firmer and rather larger, it ought to be removed, which is easily done, and, even, if the surface of the parotid gland be cut, no harm follows. If neglected, it either in- volves the gland, or that is absorbed, and its place occupied by the diseased tumour. The conglobate glands, under the lobe may swell upward, and first raise, and then involve the lobe. The different glands, there, sometimes all swell, and then the tumour is irregular and lobulated. The parotid, may next enlarge, or the gland on its face, and, too often, the chain of glands down the neck swells, so that, at last, a large tumour is formed, extending from the zygoma and cheek, down to the clavicle, andsometimes stretching across the throat to the other side, or involving the thyroid, as well as the pai-otid gland. The size of such tumoui’S is sometimes enor- mous, and their attachments intricate. They may pass up, under the zygoma, backward, so as to press together the sides of the meatus auditorius, forward, not only to the chin and on the jaw, but within it, so as to push the tongue to a side, and affect both the tonsil, velum, and pharynx, and partly curl over the teeth. With regard to an operation, whether the disease have ori- ginated in the parotid gland, or have come only to involve it, the first consideration is, whether it be practicable to remove the whole with safety. I am aware, that tumours have been successfully removed, where the attachment wasmostextensive, but the success seems to have depended, on part of the pro-221 longation being a cyst, or capsulated, or on some favourable circumstance, which there was no warrant to calculate on. There are two directions, in which the tumour may extend, so as to add much to the danger, namely, toward the pharynx, glottis, and mouth, and, in this case, we have to consider, not only whether we can by dint of cutting, take all away, but also whether the patient could long survive the injury done; or, it may go down the neck, and, setting all other parts out of the question, if, along with the carotid, we must inevita- bly cut the internal jugular vein, pneumogastric nerve, and perhaps the sympathetic, the patient could not survive above a few hours at the most.* When the tumour is more strictly confined to the parotid region, I remark, that the seat of the greatest danger, is generally below the digastric muscle, for, there, the tumour is only separated from the internal jugular vein, and other important parts, by a fascia, and if the conglobate glands be swelled, there is even more risk here, than if the parotid alone were enlarged. From the lower margin of the digastric, to the styloid process, a thick layer of muscles is interposed, and above the process, the dissection is indeed deep, but not more hazardous, if means be taken to control haemorrhage. This leads me, then, to consider the question, whether the vessels should be tied, as they are cut, or the common carotid artery be secured, as a preliminary step. It may be said, that it would be better to begin, by tying the external carotid, more especially as this could be done without extending the incision beyond the limits necessary for the removal of the tumour, and might be accomplished in the early stage of the dissection, by raising the lobe of the gland; in doing which, by the bye, we must be prepared for haemorrhage, from the divided posterior facial vein. But it is only in particular cases, that the lower part of the tumour is in a favourable state for this, and gen- erally, I should prefer tying the common carotid. Even then, the operation is not bloodless, for the retrograde circu- The reader raay connect with these remarks, those made, at pages 164, and 184 to 186.9 00)6 laiion, kept up by communicating branches, will cause haemorrhage. In those cases, where the gland has been said to be extirpated, with little haemorrhage, and without tying the carotid, I believe that it was not extirpated at all, but only a tumour of the conglobate gland on its surface. The pro- per incision having been made, and the skin dissected off the surface of the tumour, we must next, cautiously, raise its lower part from the fascia, which intervenes between it and the jugu- lar vein, &c. In this stage, we also separate it, from its con- nexion with the mastoid muscle and submaxillary gland, and then, with the digastric and styloid muscles. Next, we turn it off from the masseter, and detach it from the root of the zygoma; in doing which, we have to divide the posterior facial vein. Then, we go down into the hollow, above the styloid process, between the ear and jaw, and clean the parts as completely as possible. The difficulty of clearing away all the gland, is greatest about the meatus, and capsule of the jaw. Should retrograde haemorrhage take place, sponge must be thrust into the cavity, and bound down. This is sufficient. If the carotid artery be not previously secured, we must expect impetuous bleeding, when we dissect the gland of the styloid muscles, and as the vessel there is deep, and the space confined, it is not easy to tie it, and the por- tion of gland raised up, would be a farther encumbrance. If the dissection be clean and fair, its mouth would be level with the surface of the styloid muscles. Even, should we stop in the dissection upward, before cutting the artery, and then proceed from the zygoma downward, leaving the artery till the last, we do not improve the matter, for the artery is cut, as it comes out to form the temporal, and even if the bleeding be restrained, by holding the upper part of the gland between the finger and thumb, we must soon divide the in- ternal maxillary and transversalis, which last, though small, will bleed enough to obscure the parts. Mr. John Bell put a needle through this part of the gland, and tied it with a firm ligature, leaving it to be thrown off. Some years after- wards, the patient consulted me on account of a renewal V y223 of the disease. The tumour in the parotid region was hard, irreo-ular, immoveable, and very painful. He died a lingering death. Before proceeding to the face, I cursorily notice the Ear, for it is not necessary to be minute here. The meatus externus is important, both as the seat of disease, and a conduit, occasionally, requiring to be syringed. The bony part of it, which is about half an inch long, and three-eighths in diameter, is very thin in front, and the wall which forms it here, descends directly behind the articulating cavity, and from below the root of the zygoma. It is very slightly bent, the concavity being directed upwards. It expands a little at the membrana tympani. The mastoid process is imme- diately behind, so is the outer, and back part of the petrous portion. The process also goes a little more outward. The chorda tympani passes out at the fissure, at the very end of the anterior wall, where the tendon of thelaxator tympani enters. The consequence of fracture of the meatus, or great injury about this part, may easily be understood. When blood is dis- charged from the ear, the membrane, in general, must be torn. Arterial blood may flow from the rupture of the little branches of the stylo-mastoidea and arteria media durae matris. If there be much and continued haemorrhage, par- ticularly of venous blood, it is to be feared, that the fracture is extensive, and communicates with the lateral sinus, which runs by the under margin of the petrous bone, and ends in the jugular vein, almost behind the tympanum. There is no great thickness of bone, intervening between the end of the sinus, and this cavity. The more external part, about half an inch long, is fibro-cartilaginous, lined with skin, under which are the ceruminous glands. The thin, but pretty strong membrana tympani, forms an angle with the lower surface of the meatus, slopping from above, downward, and from without, inward. Its texture is not uniform in every part. The malleus is connected to its inner surface, whilst the stapes is fitted to the fenestra ovalis, and both have deli- cate muscles, which can render the membrane tense, and also act on the stapes. The investing membrane of the cavity, is224 a continuation of that of the pharynx, along the Eustachian tube, which merits attention in certain diseases. The meatus internus, is in a line, almost directly, in from the external, and, between it and the tympanum, is the labyrinth. At the back part, the tympanum is almost cribriform, being connected witb the mastoid cells, whilst, from the anterior and inner part, goes off the Eustachian tube, which altogether is about an inch and a half long, and opens by an oval, or somewhat trumpet-shaped aperture, about a quarter of an inch long, on the upper and back part of the pharynx, behind the inner plate of the pterygoid process, and hid by the velum. If we wish to introduce a probe or bougie into it, that must be car- ried along the floor of the nostril; but as this is a very little arched, we must go neither upward nor downward, but directly back, and, then, if the end be slightly bent, and the point turned outward, it will enter the tube, about five-eighths of an inch, back from the margin of the bony palate. It passes on easily for nearly an inch. This is a manipulation rarely practised, and still more rarely either necessary or useful. Inflammation of the tympanum, is often followed by suppuration, and tbe matter is usually discharged by the ex- ternal meatus, very rarely by the Eustachian tube. If in- flammation spread to the mastoid cells, and matter form, it is long, though partially confined there; at last it escapes through the absorbed or destroyed surface, and points behind the ear. If the disease be circumscribed, and go no farther, the patient, with the exception of pain, at first, may suffer little, and ultimately recover. Much more frequently, the disease of the bone extends, often a considerable part is ab- sorbed, so that the dura mater may be touched with a probe. Pus is formed between this and the bone, and the patient dies comatose. In other cases, the inflammation appears either to be originally in the labyrinth, or soon spreads to it; the dura mater participates, and perhaps the brain also. Pus forms, and the patient dies, as in the former case, but gener- ally much more rapidly. If we wish to make a perforation, to let out matter from within the cranium, we must remem-225 ber, that the back part of the petrous portion corresponds to the back of the mastoid process, and its upper margin runs forward, from that, in a direction toward the root of the zygoma. If we propose, therefore, to trepan in the ti-act of this portion, we must go above that line. If we wish to trepan behind the petrous bone, we do so, just behind the mastoid process, and as far down as possible. In the NOSTRIL we have several points to observe. First, we remark the extensive surface of the mucous membrane, and the various cavities, and irregularities in which the secre- tion may be, for a time, detained. Next, the division of the nostrils by a septum, partly bony, and partly fibro-cartila- ginous, which embraces firmly the nasal spine of the maxilla; then, the situation of the turbinated bones, and the openings of the ducts and sinuses. The fibro-cartilaginous part of the septum, and the alae, are attached to the bone by fibres, and farther connected, more strongly, by a continuation of a fib- rous membrane from the one to the other, especially, on the inner surface of the aim. When this is relaxed, or torn, the cartilage may yield, a little, to one side, but, generally, the feeling of this is greater than the reality. The height of the nostril, from its floor, or palate, to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, is fully an inch and a half, and the length, from the root of the septum, at the maxillary bone, to the posterior margin of the bony palate, is nearly two inches. In the recent subject, the posterior opening of the nostril, is of a regular oval shape, fully three quartet's of an inch high or long, and half an inch broad, at its middle, or broadest part. On looking into it, we see the lowest, and middle spongy bones, the latter, ending about a quarter of an inch from the opening. The anterior opening of the nostril is three quar- ters of an inch long, and one quarter broad. On making a section of the nose, the first thing which is remarked, is the irregularity of the surface, caused by its three turbinated bones. The inferior turbinated bone, begins fiom thevery margin of the nasal process of the maxillary bone, nearly on a line,with the top of the bulging part of the alae, and luns straight hack, to the front of the inner lamella of the ptery-226 gold process. Its upper margin, where it is attached to the nostril, is nearly on a line, as high as the margin of the lower part of the orbit, about five-eighths above the floor of the nostril, but being somewhat arched, the highest part may be three quarters of an inch. The lower margin, which is car- tilaginous, is about a quarter of an inch above the floor of the nostril, but it is not quite straight. It is often soft, and, sometimes, it is not only soft, but pendulous, so as to reach nearly to the floor of the nostril, particularly at the back part. This is not natural, but it is not exactly of the nature of polypus. The middle, generally called the superior turbinated bone, begins about half an inch farther back, and an inch higher, being nearly on a line with the internal canthus of the eye. But as the middle bone is more horizontal, and the upper margin of the lower one arched, there is, at the most arched part, only, a distance of five-eighths, between the upper margin of each. It is about an inch and a half above the bony margin of the maxilla, at the root of the septum of the nostril. The distance between the lower margin of this, and the upper one, of the inferior turbinated bone, is about three-sixteenths of an inch. It does not come so far forward as the lower bone. Its convex surface approaches nearer the septum, than that of the lower, for if the septum be, as is often the case, bent a little to one side, there is only one-eighth of an inch between them at some parts. The highest or smallest turbinated bone, is often like a de- rivation from the middle one, its under margin going, almost, in a line straight back from the inner canthus of the eye, whilst that of the middle one, is curved a little downward. It closes the ethmoid cells towai’d the nostril. Between it and the mid- dle bone, is a very distinct sulcus, fully three quarters of an inch long. A line from the root of the septum of the nostril, to the anterior end of the bone, measures about an inch and a half; to its posteidor end, about two. In extracting polypus, it is important to attend to these particulars. If the polypus arise from the lower bone, for- ceps almost straight, may grasp it, if run directly back, abovethe floor; but, if the excrescence spring, as is more frequent, from the mitlclle bone, it is evident that no instrument can be applied along its margin, unless it be curved, so as to enable the operator to run it back, in a line with the lower margin of the nasal bones. Even then, it can only grasp that part, which proceeds from the lower edge of the bone. It is still worse, when the polypusis connectedwith the highest bone. Whoever looks at the position of these bones, even in the dried skull, and the relations of a polypus, must at once be convinced, that its eradication, by any plan whatever, is rather to be de- sired than promised, and the rapid reappearance of polypi, after the nostril has been conjectured to be cleared, is easily explain- ed, by an excrescence expanding from a spot, where it had been confined, by the portion removed. The destruction of bone, and dreadful spreading of the disease, may also be readily understood. It sometimes destroys the nasal bones, form- ing an external tumour, enters into the antra, and swells the face laterally, as well as in front, penetrates into the frontal and sphenoidal cells, swelling the forehead, and press- ing on the brain, protrudes the eyes, and pushes forward the conjunctiva, descends into the pharynx, encroaches on the palate, and, perhaps, carries the velum forward, almost, to the front teeth. The Lachrymal Duct, opens into the nostril, below the infe- rior spongy bone, about three-eighths of an inch back from its very end; or, the oblique line from the lower end of the ante- rior naris, to the orifice of the duct, will be about an inch and an eighth, and its direction is such, that a probe intro- duced into the sac, and kept as close to the frontal bone as possible, would go downward, and obliquely backward, into the nose, in a line to the palate, over the root of the foremost grinder, near an inch and a half back from the front of the maxillary bone, at the root of the septum naris. We may introduce a probe into the duct from the nose, by bending it for two inches at the end, somewhat like a tenaculum, and passing it under the spongy bone, and directing it upward at the point mentioned. If the opening be not at once found, by moving it backward and forward, a very little way, it will228 catch the orifice, probably when aboutanincliof the bent probe is within the nostril, but this varies a little according to the antrum. The convexity of the curve, in introducing it, will rest on the lower end of the opening of the nostril, and it goes easier up the duct, if the body of the probe," be directed as much as possible toward the septum. If too much or too little bent, it cannot be carried up to the sac. The duct, alto- gether, is about three-eighths of an inch long, and an inch and three quarters of the probe, before it is bent, will require to be introduced, ere its point be fairly in the sac. The Frontal Sinuses, in the male, are often large, three quarters of an inch high, one quarter broad, and nearly one and a half long, extending along the roof of the orbit, just be- hind the supercilium. The sinus opens, by a canal, under the middle turbinated bone, near the anterior extremity, in a channel which runs obliquely downward and backward, for more than half an inch, but this, in the recent state, is often not apparently so large. The orifice may be entered, by laying a probe flat, on the outside of the upper lip, and, carrying it in that direction, it goes upward and a little backward. If the end be slightly bent forward, it will enter the orifice, but is not easily carried up into the sinus. Worms sometimes lodge there, and if this be ascertained in any case, it may be proper, if diluted chlorine gas do not reach the sinus and dislodge them, to inject by a syringe with a long pliable tube, like a probe, either oil or a strong bitter infusion. Next, the Ethmoidal cells are just to the outside of the highest, and, in part of the middle turbinated bone, situated between them, on the one hand, and the os planum in the orbit, on the other, and covered above by a plate of the frontal bone. They have been divided into anterior and posterior, the former, opening along with, or just behind, the aperture from the frontal sinus, the latter, opening farther back, and higher, in a channel under the uppermost or small- est turbinated bone. It is practicable to touch their orifices, from the opening of the nostril, with a probe, but very diffi- cult to introduce it into the cells. A moderate force is suffi-229 cient to injure the mucous membrane, and if this be torn, the bone is easily broken. There can be no occasion for the trial. The Sphenoidal cells lie farther back, median of the inter- nal carotid artery, in its’ passage to the brain, and divided from the ethmoidal cells by a septum of bone. The end of the uppermost turbinated bone, as well as that of the sulcus, between it and the middle bone, are just in front of the cells, the fore part of which, lies over the very back part of the roof of the nostril, at the vomer, which is just under this. They extend back under the sella turcica, covered there, only, by a thin plate of bone, and bounded behind, by a slender wall, going downward from the posterior clinoid processes. Their size is variable, often, in toto, one and a half inch long, and three quarters high, but sometimes less. They are divided into compartments, separated by septa, and we know no- thing, practically, of their diseases. They open by a long aperture, behind that, from the posterior ethmoidal cells, in the sulcus above the middle turbinated bone. On looking at a perpendicular section of the head, we see the turbinated bones, partly connected with the ethmoidal cells, and farther back the sphenoidal cells. It is evident, that although destruction of the cartilaginous septum of the nose, may affect the shape of its lower half, yet, that of the bony septum, can have none in making the bones of the nose fall in. To produce a sinking in the upper half, the nasal bones must be destroyed. The turbi- nated bones, ethmoid, and septum, with the bones of the palate, are most likely to suffer in syphilis. At the side of the nostril is the antrum, which is large but irregular. Above, it is covered by the orbitar plate, before, it is bounded by the maxillary bone, not thicker than thick parchment, on the inside, by the plate at the side of the nos- tril, and by the membrane which fills up the void in it. It is generally wider above than below, the inner end of the roof being nearly on a line up from the outer margin of the canine tooth, whilst the inner end of the floor may be so far back, as the anterior margin of the foremost grinder. It goes as far230 back as the last grinder, and, there, is also broader, so as to extend more over the palate, though not much any where. It is about an inch and a half long, and nearly one and a half high, in some parts. Toward the nostril, a considerable part of the wall is membranous, and in this is a small rounded opening, into a sulcus, in the nostril, between the inferior and middle turbin- ated bones, hid by the latter, and situated at the upper part of the antrum. It is a little oblique, going downward and forward from the nostril, hence, no pi'obe can be passed from the anterior naris, into the antrum; but if acutely bent at the very end, it may be hooked into the orifice. The frontal sinus opens into the same sulcus, but a little higher and far- ther forward. In inflammation of the cavity, ending information of fluid, it has been proposed to let it out, by pulling a tooth, and perforating, up from the socket. Any of the grinders would suit this purpose, but we cannot depend on the extraction of any tooth farther forward. If all the grinders be sound, we may perforate, under the cheek, at the canine fossa. In this case, the instrument must be directed obliquely backward and upward, for, if we go upward and inward, we m^^yrunitinto the nostril. There is, however, no certain mark of collection of matter. Pain in the region, and even swelling, are not sure indications. Muco-purulent discharges may follow the pulling of a tooth, carious, or loose, and by keeping the parts clean, and injecting tepid water, a cure is slowly obtained. If the gum swell, so as to obstruct the discharge, a bit of bougie will keep the orifice patent. Enlargement of the bone may gradually diminish, after the matter is evacuated, but in a dis- ease, when swelling takes place, there is too much reason to suppose, not that matter is retained, but that the bone is dis- eased, or a species of exostosis formed, or, more probably, a fungus contained within the antrum. This also may begin in the gum, and extend to the antrum. The mucous mem- brane, reflected from the cheek and lip, is thick, firm, vascu- lar, and easily dissected down to the teeth. It is connected to the periosteum, by dense cellular substance, forming231 the outer gum, as the inner is by a continuation from the palate. When the gum is principally affected, especially toward the palate, the outward deformity may not be great. But when the antrum enlarges, the cheek is swelled, the orbitar plate raised, so that the eye is sometimes forced for- ward, and the cornea becomes ulcerated, the nostril and pal- ate are involved, and the disease may spread back to the sphenoidal cells. Usually, the skin ultimately inflames, and a fungus protrudes, at one or more points, externally, as well as into the mouth and nose. It is chiefly in an early stage, that an operation can be advisable, and, even then, the dis- ease is liable to be renewed. If confined to the antrum, we only require to make a free opening in its front, and clear the cavity, and apply some escharotic, to destroy the remain- ing diseased surface. But, usually, the operation must be more extensive. We may require to take away the alveolar process of the upper jaw, which extends back to the ptery- goid process, a portion of the palatine process, the fore part of the maxilla, covering the antrum, and very probably more or less of the turbinated bones, if these be not already absorbed or destroyed. It is not usual for the disease, if not beyond the reach of an operation, to make it necessary to remove the nasal process, orbitar plate, or malar bone. The two arteries of most importance, are the infra-orbitar, which goes into the antrum, and to the alveoli, and the alveolar which winds from the tuber of the jaw, round over the alveoli. If we go back, we may have the posterior nasal and descending pala- tine. In the preliminary step, we may have the more super- ficial arteries, such as the labial, &c., opened, for sometimes it is necessary to cut up the lip or cheek. The pterygoid muscles are only affected, if the disease have gone backward and downward; if upward and outward, the insertion of the temporal may be involved. If the disease be eradicated, the expanded bone, to a certain degree, resumes its figure, so that the eye, though protruded, may again subside, and the external appearance improve. The ORBIT is irregularly shaped, but tapers toward the back, wheie it terminates in the sphenoidal fissure. This, in therecent state, is shut up by firm fibrous substance, through which certain nerves pass. Just to the inside of this, is the optic foramen, whilst, obliquely before it, on the lower part, is the spheno-maxillary fissure, also shut up by fibrous substance. These openings are so situated, that an in- strument, directed straight along the inner wall of the oi'bit, would pass ^nto the cranium, by the sphenoidal fissure, and either wound, or miss the carotid artery, according to the obliquity of its direction. Run in, from a little below the inner canthus, close on the floor, and directed downward and outward, it would pass out by the spheno- maxillary fissure; and it would enter the orbit, by that fissure, if run straight forward, from the root of the zygoma. If it entered near the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and were directed toward the median line, it would pierce the os unguis or ethmoid bone, and enter the nose. If it went through the os unguis, and were directed upward and me- dian, it might enter the cranium, through the cribriform plate. The orbit is lined with firm periosteum, and, a pretty strong fibrous membrane goes off from its margin, forming the broad ligament of the tarsus. At the outer canthus, a dupli- cation of this, extends, for at least a quarter of an inch, back into the socket, forming the lateral ligament of the eyelid. At the internal canthus, the tendon of the orbicular muscle supplies the place of this. We cannot get into the cavity of the orbit, without either cutting through the membrane attaching the eyelid, all round, to its margin, or cutting the angle of reflection of the conjunctiva, within the eyelid. In either way, we come to a considerable quantity of fat and cellular substance, which lies between the socket and the muscles. Some are also found between the muscles and the optic nerve, and back of the eyeball. The Lachrymal gland, lies above the lateral ligament, in the hollow of the orbitar process of the frontal bone, just, in a line backward, from that ridge of the bone, which bounds the origin of the temporal muscle. It comes forward, to within one’ quarter of an inch, of the edge of the orbit, or sometimes almost to the very edge, and winds obliquely233 backward and outward, to about three quarters, back from the edo-e. It consists of two lobes which are, together, about three quarters long, and one half broad, at the broadest part. Its ducts, six or seven in number, open on the inside of the upper eyelid, at the outer canthus, near the reflection of the conjunctiva. When the gland enlarges, it must affect the position of the eye more or less, and sometimes even make it protrude. It can only be removed, by detaching the up- per eyelid, sufficiently, from the margin of the orbit, and then hooking the gland, and cautiously dissecting it out. The eye resumes its place, and, although the cornea may have become opaque, or ulcerated, by exposure, yet it may recover. The Eyelid, consists of a firm facial expansion, going off from the margin of the orbit, and continued to the tarsus, or fibro-cartilaginous border at the cilii. This is impi-operly called the broad ligament, and is more cellular toward the inner canthus. Then, on the outside of this, is spread the orbicularis palpebrarum, and above that, is cellular substance, without fat, and, last of all, skin. On the inside, it is lined by the conjunctiva, which is reflected from the eye and mar- gin of the orbit, at different distances, at different parts. The greatest distance is above, where it may go three-eighths of an inch back, from the margin of the bone. It forms a fold at the outside of the caruncula, called the semilunar valve, or membrana nictitans. The caruncula, itself, is a small du- plicature of this, containing follicles. On the inside, of the broad ligament, of the upper eyelid, is the levator palpe- bras. On looking at the inside of the eyelids, we see numerous chains of buff-coloured spots about a quarter of an inch long, and running to the very edge of the tarsus. They run paral- lel to, and very near, each other. They are the Meibomian follicles. Outwardly, they extend to the canthus, but in- wardly, they do not pass the puncta. They go deep, and form a considerable part of the substance of the tarsus, which. Itself, is not so thick and firm, as its fibro-cartilaginous texture would lead one to expect. It is often more like a duplica- tion of skin. The tarsi terminate near the inner canthus.234 1 he tendo oculi bifurcates, and is continued into each of them. From this point, the eyelids form an angle toward the nose, traversed by the tendon, and in which is situated the caruncula and membrana nictitans or valve. The edge of this angle, is formed by dense cellular substance, by the bi- furcation of the tendon, and the ducts. The Puncta, are seated just at the end of the tarsal liga- ments in both eyelids, and before the angle at the canthus begins. They are easily discovered, for they are placed in a very small tubercle. Both ducts run,’for a little way, in a verti- cal direction, the one up, the other down, and, then, they each traverse their respective margins of the angle, and enter separately or conjoined, into the middle, upper, and outer parts of the sac. The Sac, is lodged in a hollow, formed, partly, by the outer and posterior side of the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and, partly, by the anterior part of the os unguis. It is about three-eighths of an inch long, and three-sixteenths broad, at its middle, for it is somewhat oval. It consists of a mucous membrane, forming a sac, which is covered in front, or above, by a firm membrane or aponeurosis, adherent to the margin of the bony cavity. The sac extends, just so much, above the tendon of the orbicularis, that a probe introduced from the duct, is seen merely to raise it above the mat'gin of the tendon. It is covered by the orbicularis, and cannot be open- ed till this also be cut. The upper part of the sac, ends very nearly about the transverse line, going from canthus to canthus, and the under end, terminates, at that part of the orbitar edge of the nasal process, which is in a line up from the front, or, at most, the outer margin of the second incisor. It is readily found by feeling for the orbitar ridge of the nasal process, of the max- illary bone, at the internal canthus, where the tendon of the orbicularis crosses, and for three-eighths of an inch downward and outward. If an incision be made to that extent, just behind the edge of the bone, winding downward and outward, the sac, in its whole extent, must be opened. If an incision be made any lower, or more outward, behind, or even on, the235 orbitar ridge, the sac is not in that tract, but the eyelid shall be cut away from the orbit. The Nerves in the orbit, may be divided into those going to the eye, and those to its appendages and coverings. Two of the muscles, have their own proper nerves, the fourth, go- ing to the superior oblique, and the sixth, to the abductor. The third, goes to the other muscles, and also to the levator palpebrae. Then, we have the optic nerve itself, and the len- ticular ganglion, which is situated close by its outer side, in cellular substance, between the nerve and the abductor. It gives olf twelve, or more, very slender filaments, like fine threads, which run along all the sides of the optic nerve, parallel to it, and, entering the sclerotic, pass on, between it and the choroid, to the ciliary circle. The ganglion, which is small, is connected with the fifth and third nerves. The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair, soon after entering, by the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches. The lachrymal, runs outward, between the bone and abductor, to the gland, which it supplies, and filaments even pass out, to the eyelid, temple, and cheek. The nasal, is sent off, before pass- ing the dura mater, goes on, under the upper rectus muscle, to the anterior orbitar foramen, by which it gets to the up- per surface, of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and thence to the nose, within which it ramifies even to its extre- mity. It, as well as the third, is connected with the gan- glion. It also gives off a small branch, which passes out, be- low the pulley, called the infra-trochlearis, and goes to the eyelid, root of the nose, &c. The supra-orbitar divides early into two, which accompany each other,’closely, till about half an inch from the superciliary ridge, where they are more separ- ate. Both run on the levator palpebrm, and then pass above, and rather behind, the tendon of the superior oblique, which plays through a kind of pulley, just behind the superciliary ridge, at about an eighth of an inch outward from the inner canthus. The largest, or supra-orbitar, is the most back- ward, and a little more outward, passes out by the supercili- ary notch or foramen, under the muscles, which it presentlypierces, and becomes superficial. The smallest, called the super-trochlearis, passes likewise above the tendon of the trochlearis, and gets out on the forehead. Injury done to the extremities of the nerves, by a blow, &c., may affect their origins, so as to produce fatal disease, but, more frequently, the symptoms, though alarming, and resem- bling those of hydrocephalus, may be removed by bleeding, blistering the head, purgatives, mercury, &c. Paralysis of the levator palpebrae, is sometimes removed, by applying a stimu- lating substance to the eyelid, but frequently, with children, it is a precursor of fatal disease in the head. Affections of the orbicularis, more frequently, depend on the state of the portio dura. Amaurosis, is supposed, sometimes, to follow injury of the fifth nerve. The appearance of the eye, is attended to by physicians as indicating the state of the origin of the nerves. The fifth nerve, is of importance in the indica- tions in fever. The artery, properly speaking, of the orbit, is the ophthal- mic, which enters below, and to the outer side of, the optic nerve. It is of considerable size, and, soon gives off the lachx'ymal, to the gland, branches to the muscles and fat, the posterior and anterior ethmoidal, which enter into the nose, the anterior nasal, which passes below the tendon of the trochlearis, and out, above that of the orbicularis, to the inner canthus, the supra-orbitax*, and bx-anches to the eyelids. The accompanying veins, either pass back, by the sphenoidal fis- sure into the cavernous sinus, or out into the angular vein. On looking at the dissected face, we may observe a very natux'al division. The posterior part, on each side, is occu- pied by firm, solid, and adherent muscles, the masseter and temporal, whilst, in the intervening portion in fx’ont, we observe three bx-oad orbicular muscles, one, surrounding each eye, and, another, encircling the mouth. In the centre of these, we have the nose with its cartilages and muscles, whilst, beneath the orbiculax'is palpebx*arum, and to the outside of the ox’biculaxds ox'is, we have the buccinator and various muscles, tending all toward the xnouth, which may be coxxsid-237 ered both as an orbicular muscle, capable of moving itself, and also, as a point of fixture, for other muscles, arising from bone, and intended to draw it in different directions. The orbicularis palpebrarum surrounds the orbit, as well as the eyelids. It arises from the tendo oculi, or tendon of the orbicularis, wdiich is a tendinous line, passing from the nasal process of the maxillary bone, to the tarsi, and, there, forking, to be lost in them; it also rises from the angular process of the frontal bone. It sweeps up on the forehead, above the orbit, covering, and intermixing with, the occipito-frontalis, passes round, over the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, and down on the cheek over the origin of the zygomaticus. The .sheet extends often for an inch beyond the orbit, and the fibres are thin on the eyelids, but more fleshy beyond these. The occipito-frontalis, if traced downward, may be said to be inserted into the orbicularis, and the cellular substance, at the inside of the eyebrow, and root of the nose. The orbicularis is narrow at the inner canthus, and, therefore, the occipito- frontalis can be traced bare farther down, and a slip runs down the nose; more outward, it can be traced to the super- ciliary ridge, but is blended on the outer surface with the orbicularis, and I shall presently mention its relation to the temporal muscle, &c. Both of these, again, cover the corrugator supercilii, which is not seen arising from the root of the angular process of the frontal bone, till they be cut or raised. It sweeps out- ward, along the eyebrows, blending with them there, so that these three muscles are connected. The occipito-frontalis raises the skin and eyebrow, it is a levator, whilst the other two, are depressors and wrinkle it. The third orbicularis muscle, is that of the mouth. It is thin, half an inch broad, and consists of an upper and under sheet, corresponding to the two lips, meeting, or decussating, at the angles of the mouth, so as to form a kind of oval muscle. The portion in the upper lip, is the broadest, and is farther, both strengthened and enlarged by fibres, winding outward from the septum of the nose, to the angle of the mouth.238 A few fibres wind, sometimes, along the division in the un- der lip, from the buccinator, as far as the canine tooth. The various muscles, inserted into the mouth, expand on the or- bicularis, or intermix with its substance, so that, by some, they have been described as forming an outer layer of this muscle. On the upper part of the face, we have, besides those already noticed, the Temporal, very much covered by the oc- cipito-frontalis, to which, therefore, I revert. The anterior fleshy belly, is thin, and goes back, to about an inch and a half from the superciliary ridge, where it is lost in the sheet of tendon or aponeurosis. The posterior comes so far up, as to be fully on a line with the top of the ear. From this, a firm expansion, partly tendinous, partly dense cellular sub- stance, extends backward to the top of the neck. The mid- dle aponeurosis, as it is called, goes to the top of the mastoid muscle and ear, behind, whilst, in front, it covers the tem- poral muscle, and can often be traced under the orbicularis, to the outer margin of the orbit, and zygoma, and down, over that, to be lost in the parotid fascia, and that of the face. This extent is not always so distinct, and, correctly speaking, the occipito-frontalis-aponeurosis, cannot be said to go so far, but, in strongly marked subjects, it is really impossible to say, where that ends, and the mere fascia begins. This is a point of considerable importance, in the propagation of disease, the confinement and extension of pus, &c. Removing this, by whatever name it is called, we find another layer of fascia, arising from the margin of the oi’bit and zygoma, with dense fatty substance, lying between it and the muscle, near the temple, and which, when absorbed, makes the temple fall in. It passes up over the muscle, under the occipito-fron- talis, but gradually becomes almost cellular. Lastly, beneath this, there is the proper aponeui'osis of the temporal muscle, thin, but strong, and glistening. It, at the circumference of the muscle, is identified with the pericranium, and below, is united to the upper margin of the whole of the zygomatic arch. On sawing off this arch, and turning down the masse- ter, we can better see the muscle, and find that it arises be-hind, so low, not only as the root of the zygoma, but from the outer half of the front of the articulating cavity, before, from the temporal fossa, fully as far down as the level of the outer canthus of the eye. Below this, it is only connected to the back of the upper jaw, by low cellular substance. It is im- planted by tendon into the coronoid process, and also is con- nected to the sigmoid notch, all the way back, to about three- eighths of an inch, of the root of condyle, so as to hide the pterygoideus externus, excepting there, where cellular sub- stance fills the space between it and the masseter. It also extends down the anterior margin, and inner surface, of the coronoid process to near the teeth, so that it is in contact with the anterior margin of the internal pterygoideus. On aline with the last grinder of the upper jaw, a band of tendon, fully a quarter of an inch broad, is sent off from the temporal muscle, to be implanted into the corresponding, or back part of the buccinator, which is farther connected to the margin of the coronoid process, by a fascia which passes from the one to the other. On exposing the temporal mus- cle, at the anterior margin of the coronoid process, we find that a portion of fat can be traced from the buccinator, which extends a little within the process, and the muscle, to the pterygoideus externus. Fat and cellular substance, are also found betvveen the back part of the jaw, or posterior part of the buccinator, and the coronoid process, but not higher than its point. On cutting off the temporal muscle, as it is connected to the notch, we see more of the ptery- goideus externus, obliquely traversed by the maxillary artery, which runs upward and forward. The firm masseter, arises as far forward as the malar pro- cess of the maxillary bone, and from the zygomatic arch, back to near its root. It is about an inch and three quarters broad, but becomes narrower and rounded at its extremity. It extends, for about half an inch forward, beyond the anterior margin of the ascending ramus, but it does not quite cover the condyle or neck, behind, nor entirely reach the posterior margin, till fully an inch above the peak of the angle of the jaw. There are two portions or layers of the muscle, veryproperly described. The fibres of the innermost, extending half way down the ramus, run downward and forward, and those of the outermost and largest layer, go the whole way, some, perpendicularly, others, downward and back- ward. It is covered by an aponeurosis, and the parotid gland rests on its posterior part. The anterior margin which overhangs the buccinator, is connected to it, mei'ely, by fat and cellular substance, over which a thin continuation of fascia is spread. As far as the temporal muscle descends below the zygoma, it is, in a manner, blended with the inner surface of the masseter. In considerino; the action of these two mus- cles, we must also recollect the pterygoideus internus, which rising, muscular and tendinous, from the whole fossa, between the pterygoid processes, bounds the outer margin of the poste- rior opening of the nostril, and is directed downward and a little backward, but not meeting, exactly, the posterior margin of the jaw, till fully an inch above the angle. Higher, the bone where the muscle does not extend, is covered or lined with cellular substance, in which we see the internal maxil- lary artery crossing. The external pterygoideus, is large and fleshy, rising from the process, even to its root. Hence, the upper fibres run more obliquely than the lower, and can not only draw the condyle forward, but a little upward. The superior fibres go to the capsule and front of the inter-articular cartilage. In its course, and till near the condyle, it is bounded by the temporal muscle. The articulating cavity, is, in the recent subject, about three quarters of an inch long, and three-eighths deep. The inter-articular cartilage is thickest behind, and, moving along with the condyle, and also pulled forward by the pterygoideus externus, when the jaw is opened, it, from being thickest behind, comes to produce the same effect, as if the condyle were raised there, and, consequently makes it less ready to pass over the front of the cavity. The fore part, in the motion, is slightly turned down, over the face of the condyle, deepening thus, as long as the parts are entire, or the cartilage connected to the temporal bone, the articulation in front. If the jaw241 be greatly opened, and brought forward, the cartilage, from its shape, may act as a wedge, fixing the jaw, and becoming, itself, fixed for a time. This cartilage, adds to the security of the joint, which is farther defended, before, by the fibres of the temporal muscle, which I have described as rising from the outer half, of the front, of the articulating cavity, and run- ning downward and forward. These, 1 apprehend, must be torn before dislocation can take place. In dislocation, the head of the bone is carried more under the masseter, for, naturally, it is not quite covered by it. The anterior part of that muscle, unless the jaw be greatly opened, is rather slackened; the posterior fibres, at the upper part, are stretched, if not torn; the under part is little affected. The pterygoideus internus, is rendered more perpendicular, though very little. The portion of the temporal muscle, in front of the articulation, must be torn, or greatly stretched. The changes on the rest of the muscle, and pterygoideus ex- ternus, are too evident to require description. The chief resistance in reduction, is from the posterior and middle por- tion of the temporal, and the upper and back part of the masseter. But even the anterior portion of the temporal, and pterygoideus externus, may afford resistance, from being irritated, for it does not follow, that because a muscle may be somewhat shortened, it must necessarily be relaxed. The Buccinator, is the sheet over which the other, compa- ratively, loose and radiating muscles extend. This arises from the root of the alveolar process, of each jaw, from as far forward, as the first grinder, to the pterygo-maxillary liga- ment, which passes, perhaps, a quarter of an inch behind the last grinder. It also arises from this ligament, and runs then forward, to be connected with the orbicularis oris,&c. It must, at the back part, where it is continuous with the constrictor superior, be within the temporal muscle, and I have describ- ed a band going from that muscle to it, and, also, a thin fascia connecting it to the edge, or margin, of the coronoid pro- cess, whilst, betw'een it and the margin of the masseter, are fat and cellular substance. I have formerly noticed the relation of the parotid duct to it.242 Tlie looser muscles, all tend toward the orbicularis oris, Fitst, we have in the upper division, and most outward, the Zygomaticus major, running from the malar bone, at the zygomatic suture, to the angle of the mouth, traversing, ob- liquely, the upper and anterior part of the masseter. Its course is marked by a line, drawn from about an inch forward, from the root of the zygomatic pi'ocess, to the angle of the mouth. Second, the Zygomaticus minor rises lower, and more forward, is shorter than the major, runs higher, divaricating a little from it. Both, particularly the minor, cross the Le- vator anguli oris, near their insertion into the mouth, and both, at the upper part, are covered by the orbicularis palpe- brarum. Going from the nose, another sheet, formed by the following muscles, may be traced. At the nose, the Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, descends, almost perpendicularly. Adjoining it, separated by a line of cellular substance, and rising a very little below the orbit, is the Levator proprius. Thetwo, including thelineof cellularsubstance, are, altogether, about an inch and a quarter broad. Between the levator proprius and zygomaticus major, covered, in part, by the minor, is a kind of hollow, filled with fat and cellular sub- stance, traversed by the angular vein. On cleaning out this, we see, rising under the infra-orbitar foramen, in the canine fossa, consequently deeper than the other, the Levator anguli oris. It is nearly half an inch broad. Its origin cfinnot be seen, till the levator proprius be lifted, or drawn forward. It runs a little outward, to the angle of the mouth, whilst the other, runs straight down. Below the mouth, we find a similar radiation of muscles to the orbicularis. The Depressor anguli oris, rises just in front of the insertion of the masseter, but is not in contact with it, the facial artery passing between them. The anterior margin of the muscle, rises by a peak, from the side of the jaw, whei’e the square front of the chin ends, under the canine tooth, and the base of the muscle, ex- tends back, for about two inches. Its posterior margin, is straight, and runs obliquely upward and forward to the angle qf the mouth, but the anterior, forms a curve, the concavity directed forward. The shape, therefore, is not triangular.243 Its upper end is about half an inch broad. The Depressors of the lip, arise on each side, from the oblique line of the jaw, under the depressor anguli oris, and form two thin broad muscles, which mount upward and forward, appearing in front, from under that muscle, and decussating one another, as they go to the lip. They are not square as some represent them. The front of the chin, in the angle formed by their decussation, should be without muscular covering, were it not for the Levator menti, which arises on each side, from the jaw, at the incisor and canine teeth, sending its fibres downward, meeting with those from the other side, both ending in the lower lip, and skin of the chin. Thus, we find the orbicularis oris, surrounded by a radiation of muscles, which contribute also to the formation of the lip. The platysmal fascia, passes from the neck, up on the face. It is lost in, or forms, the parotid fascia, which covers the gland. It ascends strong and distinct, on the side of the jaw, and on the chin, but before reaching the lip in front, or the level of the mouth at the sides, it becomes thin and cellular. In this state, it covers all the rest of the face, under the skin, but in many instances, is not very distinct. On dissecting it off’, we find fatty cellular substance, in which, on the cheek, are imbedded the parotid duct, superficial muscles, vessels, and nerves. Cleaning this off, we expose the radiating muscles more distinctly, laid in one part, on the buccinator, to which they are connected by cellular substance. On the bony part of the cheek, and on part of the temple, we have also the expansion of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Tumours, confined to tiie region of the masseter muscle, and the upper bony part of the cheek, must, of necessity, be superficial, and, if not of a malignant nature, affecting the part on which they rest, they can be effectually removed. In one district, however, the parotid duct is in danger, and must; be carefully avoided. Branches of the portio dura, may also be divided, paralyzing the orbicularis palpebrarum, or other muscles. On the buccinator region, the parotid duct is, at the back part, still in danger, and more forward, we have the angular244 vein and artery. We must also be careful of the buccinator itself, and the other muscles covering the membrane of the mouth. A tumour may also occupy the cellular pit, which exists under the zygomaticus and levator proprius, connect- ed with the infra-orbitar nerve. Between the buccinator, and the anterior edge of the masseter, there is fat, into which, a tumour may extend to the margin of the coronoid process of the jaw. There is also, we have seen, a space, between this process and the back of the upper jaw and buccinator, where fat and cellular substance are lodged. If a tumour extend in this direction, it will occupy the place of this fat, and rest, before, on the back of the antrum; within and back- ward, on the buccinator; upward, outward, and backward, on the temporal, and it may press in, and so far back, as to touch the pterygoideus externus. The internal maxillary, in its course and distribution, will be interested, but this, and the nerves, require to be afterwards noticed. There is no fascia on the Lip, but, under the skin, is dense cellular substance, covering the orbicularis, which is rendered broader by the Nasalis labii superioris, or fibres which rise from the septum of the nose, or rather between the proper septum, and the nasal or moveable fibrous band, formed, apparently, by the turning down of the tip of each nostril, to the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and con- sequently double. This muscle can aid the Depressor labii superioris, which lies close on the bone, above the incisor teeth, and also draw down the nasal band. From the process, there descends, perpendicularly, in the upper lip, a dense fibro-cellular strip, with a slight hollow between its two mar- gins, forming the naso-labial sulcus. Partly covered by, and partly higher than, the nasalis muscle, is a thin Compressor naris, rising, narrow, at the canine fossa, and expanding on the wing of the nose. If we dissect off the levators, we find that they have contri- buted much to the formation of the lip, for, beyond the margin of the orbicularis and nasalis, we see little between it and the buccinator, but the mucous membrane, now, almost bare. This membrane lines the lips, being reflected from the gums,245 and passes out, over the prolabia, to the common skin. It is more easily separated, from the upper part of the orbicu- laris, and other muscles, than near the edge of the lip. It turns over this edge, and ends in the skin. A frenum is formed, by the membrane, within each lip. The artery runs nearer the inner, than the outer, surface of the lip, and rami- fies minutely. On dissecting off the mucous membrane lin- ing the lips, we find, all the way, from near the gums, between the membrane and the inner surface of the orbicu- laris, and extending over the prolabia, a distinct sheet of glandular follicles, imbedded in cellular substance. Many of these, are as large as canary seeds, soft, and of a dull pearl colour, like those at the root of the tongue. They are deficient at, and within, the angle of the mouth. They are much larger, and more numerous, on the lower, than upper, prolabium, which is one reason, for the greater frequency of cancer there, and, from the situation of the follicles, the disease is at first superficial, and the affected spot covered with a scab, some- times thin, sometimes elevated. When this is removed, the surface is sore, fiery, and irregular or granulated, from the enlargement and alteration of the follicles. It may continue long in this state, increasing very slowly, or, the margin of the sore may become thickened and indurated, the base also distinctly scirrhous. The sore spreads, either, toward the angle of the mouth, or, toward both sides, and also becomes deeper. The lymphatic glands swell, so that hard tumours, of various size, are formed under the chin, or toward the angle of the jaw, bound by the angular ligament and platysma, and sometimes connected with the periosteum of the jaw. So long as the lymphatic glands are sound, we may hope for benefit from an operation, and if so much of the prolabium be affected, as would make it difficult to brine: the surface O together, in the usual way, the whole diseased parts may be cut off, the vessels secured, and the inner membrane, and outer skin, kept in contact, by two or three stitches. The lip, though, at first, very deficient, improves by time. When the membrane of the prolabium is destroyed, by any cause, the follicles are seen, giving the surface an appearance24G somewhat like shagreen, and of necessity covered, soon, by a crust of dried secretion. Such sores are not, necessarily, ma- lignant, and may be cured, by defending the follicles from irritation. But, if not soon covered with epithelium, and there be no subjacent induration, a cure may be sooner effected, and the risk of an unfavourable change prevented, by shav- ing off the exposed follicles; then, the muscle below, is covered with a cicatrix. The principle is, where we cannot cover the secreting surface, to destroy it. There is, however, this advantage, in the angular incision, and use of the twisted suture, that, by adhesion, we avoid the risk of ulceration, which may become unhealthy. The membrane is likewise liable to excoriation, generally, preceded by slight vesication, &c., and immediately covered with a thin layer, like fibrin, or the vesicles may be filled with white coagulated albumen. The membrane, or its subjacent cellular tissue, may become thickened and ulcerated, inde- pendent of disease in the labial glands. It is also liable to phagedenic and sloughing sores.^ Hare lip, when the bones are defective, is dependent on the state of the inter-maxillary bone in the foetus. But, some- times, the bones are entire, and the lip only cleft. This is easily managed by dissecting the attached margins, a little, and making them raw in the usual way. The Facial Artery, has already been traced, from its ori- gin, to the jaw. It runs, for a time, nearly parallel to the blade, and within it, and then turns, in a tortuous manner, over its edge, to get on the face, a little before the anterior margin of the end of the masseter, between it and the de- pressor anguli oris, some fibres of which cover it. It is, however, chiefly covered by the platysmal fascia, a circum- stance to be attended to in wounds, for, the artery is apt to retract beneath this, and its mouth is not so easily found, unless this fascia be slit a little, or raised with the point of a hook. It pursues its course upward, and a little forward, in the direction of the inner canthus of the eye, to which it runs, but not as a straight line, for it is tortuous. In this course, it passes from five-eighths, to three quarters, of aninch, to the outside of the angle of the mouth, is imbedded in cellular substance, and under the fascia of the jaw, resting first on the buccinator, and running under the zygomaticus, and levator labii superioris proprius, and above the levator anguli oris, and the levator labii alaeque nasi. Between the margin of the jaw and the mouth, it gives off some irregular ramuli, backward, to the masseter, &c., and a branch foi- ward on the chin, which anastomoses with ascending twigs from the submental, and. some from the dental, coming out of the foramen. These, altogether, form a mesh work on the chin, and anastomose with the descending twigs of the infe- rior coronary. This last artery, comes off a little below the angle of the mouth, and passes under the muscles of the mouth, between them and the membrane of the lip. It runs forward, and joins the one from the other side, ramifying in the lip, and amongst the mucous glands, and sending down ramuli to anastomose with the vessels of the chin. The su- perior coronary, comes off a very little higher, and runs, in like manner, in the upper lip, and sends up a branch to the septum nasi. From these arteries encircling the mouth, they receive their name of coronary, and their deep situa- tion is to be attended to. By falls or blows, the teeth may cut the inside of the lip, and open the artery, which bleeds long and obstinately. It is readily secured by turning the lip down, and. taking up the vessel with a tenaculum, or we may use on the inside a common stitch, the thread being passed in front of the arteries. If the internal cut be long, perpendicular, and deep, reaching almost to the skin or front, then, although the lip be not divided, it is better to use the twisted suture, as this cures the part, without a fissure, or chop, and, at the same time, stops the bleeding, if the needle be passed close by the membrane behind. This is always to be attended to, in wounds of the lip, whether accidental, or made for the removal of cancerous disease, &c., otherwise, we not only have a fissure left, but the arter- ies not being pressed, continue to bleed, even, to an alarming The facial artery then continues its course, and gives off248 small branches to the cheek, anastomosing with the transver- salis faciei and infra-ovbitar. Next, iri’egular branches are given to the nose, the lateral, or dorsal, nasal arteries, to its skin and muscles. The trunk passes on, between the two origins of the levator labii alaeque nasi, lying, as it were on the line of union, and reaches the canthus, where it traverses the surface of the tendon of the orbicularis, running nearer the nose, than the proper line of incision, for opening the lachrymal sac. It anastomoses with the ophthalmic and frontal arteries. The supra-orbitar, is a branch of the ophthalmic, and ac- companies the supra-orbitar nerve. The frontal, and nasal, pass out of the orbit, at the inner canthus, between the tendon of the orbicularis, and that of the superior oblique, the one going to the forehead, the other to the nose, lachry- mal sac, &c. Another artery of the face, is the Transversalis Faciei. This comes off either from the inferior maxillary, or oftener from the external carotid, about three quarters of an inch below the root of the zygoma, and in the substance of the parotid gland. It gives off a branch, which runs in, between the bone and the masseter, whilst its trunk, pretty large, runs forward, rather covered by, than in, the gland, in a line about three-eighths of an inch below the zygoma, with one of the largest branches of the portio dura, along its under margin. It supplies the district which it traverses, all the way to the buccinator, anastomosing with the facial. It has an accompanying vein above and below, or, if there be only one, it is large. Just below the root of the condyle, or near an inch below the root of the zygoma, the carotid artery divides, in the parotid gland, into the Temporal and Internal Maxillary. The latter, which is as large as the radial artery at its origin, passes for- ward, between the neck of the jaw bone, and the internal lateral ligament, at about five-eighths of an inch, below the top of the condyle. It is not uniform in its course. Often, for a very little way, it runs obliquely forward and outward, along the under surfiice, of the pterygoideus externus, by the outer sur-249 face of the internal pterygoid, so as to get, presently, on the outer surface of the former. It then proceeds within the temporal muscle, obliquely, upward and forward, deeply, toward the spheno-maxillary fissure. When the mouth is shut, the artery, in this course, namely, running on the ex- ternal pterygoid, merely skirts the margin of the sigmoid notch, so that it is not seen. But if not pulled down by its attachments, it may, when the mouth is widely opened, be a little higher, and consequently wounded there, by a transverse stab. More frequently, it does not, so soon, turn on the sur- face of the pterygoideus externus, but proceeds on its inner surface, between it and the internal pterygoideus, into the spheno-maxillary fossa, turning over the muscle, near its ori- gin, or passing through two portions of it, to the back of the antrum. Sometimes, in the same subject, it runs differently on opposite sides. At the lower margin of the pterygoideus externus, it, according to its course, either crosses the outside of the dental and gustatory nerves, or passes between them, the dental running on its outside. Whilst traversing the neck of the bone, or in front of the root of the condyle, and before turning over, on the pterygoideus externus, it gives off two branches, of importance to surgeons. One goes almost straight up, or a little inward, to the fora- men spinale, which is situated to the inside of the very root of the zygomatic process, or of the front of the articulating fossa. It is as large as a crow quill, and from its origin, to its entrance into the skull, is about three-eighths of an inch long, skirting, as it ascends, the posterior margin of the pterygoideus internus. It is the middle arteiy of the dura mater. It is not in the way of being wounded, exterior to the cranium, unless, in cases where there is still more sex'ious complication; but, it is often torn, or ruptured, within the skull, and then compression is pi'oduced, fatal, if not removed. The other, or dental branch, comes off from the lower sur- face of the artery, nearly opposite the media, but some- times from the deep temporal, and goes obliquely downward and forward, between the lower jaw, and internal pterygoid‘250 muscle, and also the internal lateral ligament. It runs rather behind, and a little more outward, than the dental nerve, or it may perhaps be covered by it, (looking from the inside,) and gives off small muscular branches. It then, with the nerve, enters the canal, the commencement of which is in a line run back along the upper surface of the grinders. They go forward, in a canal, along the I'oot of the alveolar process, and pass out at the mental foramen, the former anastomos- ing with the facial artery. This foramen, is situated, exactly, below the fifth tooth, counting backward from the front, and is about midway between the under edge of the jaw, and the top of the alveolar process, about half an inch from each. The anterior margin of the depressor anguli oris, overlaps the hole, and the depressor labii, goes completely over it. The vessel which is now small goes to these muscles. The alveolar, or dental, artery, is sometimes torn in extract- ing a grinder, the process being fractured, and, in some cases, the bleeding is not only copious but obstinate, even when the trunk is not torn. A piece of cork, shaped to the socket, should be introduced, above a little lint, and kept firmly pressed down. If this do not stop it, it is to be taken out, and another pellet introduced, containing a bit of potassa fusa, of the size of a mustard-seed, which is also to be corked in. The artery is, also, sometimes torn, in fracture of the jaw, but, on reducing the bones, and applying a bandage, the haemorrhage generally soon ceases. From in- jury of the nerve, in pulling a tooth, tetanus has been produced. When the artery continues its course, altogether, within the pterygoideus externus, it gives off, at the same place, with the arteria media and dental, or very soon after them, the posterior deep temporal artery, which passes upward and a little forward, on the face of that muscle, and gets under the temporal muscle. If the maxillary turn up on the sur- face of the pterygoideus, the deep temporal, generally comes off, nearly half an inch farther forward, and runs therefore more directly upward, rising perhaps from the centre of the2.51 notch. In either case, it gets deeply covered by the tem- poral muscle, and mounts nearly half an inch before the root of the zygoma, pretty closely on the bone. Tlie maxillary, as it is skirting the notch, gives branches to the pterygoid muscle, and one, the masseterica, passes out at the margin of the notch, into the masseter muscle. This not only ramifies in it, but anastomoses with the super- ficial arteries. Farther forward in the fossa, it gives off the buccinator artery, which is as large as a small stocking wire, and runs downward and forward, with the buccinator nerve, between a part of the internal pterygoid and the jaw, to get to the buccinator muscle. It is distributed on the muscle, all the way to the side of the mouth, and also to the zygoma- ticus, and anastomoses with the other facial arteries. Some internal twigs, go to the membrane of the cheek. Then, farther forward, on clearing the external pterygoid muscle, is given off the anterior deep temporal. It mounts, deep in the temporal muscle, close by the bone, behind the superior orbitar process of the malar bone, or at the back of the outer side of the orbit. It also supplies the neighbour- ing parts. Next, there comes off the alveolar artery, as the maxillary is mounting on the back of the tuberosity of the jaw bone, and fully an inch above the margin of the gum, at the last tooth. It winds downward and forward, under the junction of the maxilla and malar bone, running closely along the front of the alveolar process, all the way to the fossa canina, termi- nating in the upper lip, supplying in its course, the alveoli and teeth, and sending up branches, to anastomose on the face of the bone, with the infra-orbitar. It also gives branches to the antrum. It is an artery interested in tumour of the gum, and bone, and antrum, and in the removal of the fungous tumour, at this part, or from the an- trum, it must be cut, but seldom gives great trouble, the hajmorrhage being, generally, stopped by pressure with lint, oi lint dipt in an astringent or escharotic substance. Sometimes before this, but generally very near the same place, and at the same height, the superior palatine artery,a considerable vessel, is given off. It descends in the poste- rior palatine canal, and after giving branches to the velum, gets, by the palato-pterygoid hole, to the palate, on which it ramifies, running, at first, close by the inside of the alveolar processes, and spreading between the palate plate, and soft covering of the palate, adhering to the periosteum, rather than to the covering. It comes out, at the junction of the palate and alveoli, at the back part, corresponding to the inside of the last grinder, or sometimes between it and the next one. An incision here, at the very side of the roof of the mouth, must divide this artery and the accompanying palatine nerve. Were it cut, in extirpating an excrescence, and the haemorrhage difficult to stop, this is the place, to in- troduce a small plug, or apply a bit of caustic. The artery, finally divides into two branches, each of which has been described as the continued trunk, though sometimes the alveolar looks like it. The one, goes to the nose, the other, to the infra-orbitar canal. The nasal artery, called also thespheno-palatine, which is as large as a common probe, gives twigs externally, and speedily enters the spheno-palatine hole, which is situated at the fore part of the root of the pterygoid process, below the posterior foramen lacerum, in a line directly inward, or transverse, from the under margin of the zygomatic suture. A probe, in the dried skull, may be intro- duced into it, by running it in a very little forward, at the bottom of the zygomatic suture, going closely behind the coronoid process; or, by introducing it before the coronoid process, under the malar bone, and directing it a very little upward. In the nose, it enters just above the posterior ex- tremity of the middle, and at the end of the upper, spongy bone, in the superior meatus, fully half an inch forward, from the termination of the vomer, and on a line with the surface of the cuneiform bone. A probe, introduced obliquely up- ward and backward, for about two inches and a quarter, from the root of the septum of the nose, close to it and to the septum, and, then, having its extremity directed outward, or previously a little bent outward, will come as near to it above the middle bone as possible, but still cannot exactly touch it.255 and if pressed much, may injure the parts. The artery sends oflF a large branch to the ethmoidal cells, and the rest ramifies, minutely, over the nostril. It is the principal source of the blood here, for the ethmoidal artery, from the ophthal- mic, is of less importance. It is easily ruptured, and bleeds freely, so much so, that epistaxis may be a very serious dis- ease. It is quite impossible to compress, either the trunk, or branches, of this artery. The first is too well protected, and the last are distributed on irregular and inaccessible surfaces. Should we, in epistaxis, wish to stuff the nostril with lint, dry, or wet with an astringent, I have mentioned how the probe may reach, nearest, to the entrance of this artery. But it cannot be effectually compressed, and therefore, we must trust, so far as local means are concerned, to coagulation, which is promoted, by introducing gently into the nostril, dossils of lint, wet with solution of alum, or some vegetable astringent, so as to retard the circulation. Or, by closing the anterior nares, and holding the head forward, the blood, after run- ning, for some time, from the posterior opening, coagulates. It is rarely necessary to plug both ends, but when this is re- quired, the posterior opening is plugged, by passing an elas- tic catheter, with its end cut off, and armed with a thread, along the’nostril, till its end, and the thread hanging out of it, be seen behind the velum. The thread is then to be laid hold of, and pulled out of the mouth. Being in the catheter, pulling it, does not fret, or rub, the floor of the nostril; a plug is then to be firmly tied to it, and the end of it, which is hanging out of the extremity of the catheter, at the anterior nostril, is to be pulled, so as to draw the plug into the mouth, and back to the root of the tongue. Being lodcced , O O there, but not so far back as to obstruct breathing, both catheter and thread, are to be pulled quickly, but not roughly, forward, at the same time, that with our finger in the mouth, ■we guide, speedily, the plug, backward and upward, behind the velum, so as to lodge it at the posterior opening of the nose, and by tightening or pulling the thread, it is impacted there. The anterior opening, or nostril, is easily stuffed. There2.54 are two tilings to be attended to here; that the ligature be firmly tied round the plug, for I have seen it slip, and, that the plug be neither too large nor too small. The plug, whether of sponge or lint, must be so large as, when pressed, to fit the aperture, the dimensions of ivhich have formerly been given. The other, and last, branch of the internal maxillary, is the infra-orbitar. It enters the orbit, by the anterior, or inferior, foi’amen lacerum, along with the infra-orbitar nerve, gets im- mediately on the floor of the orbit, and soon into a groove or canal, which ends in the infra-orbitar foramen, through which both artery and nerve issue. The artery supplies the parts here, and anastomoses with the other facial branches. It, in its course, gives twigs to the muscles of the eye, lachrymal sac, &c. The Superficial Temporal artery remains to be noticed. It passes out from the parotid gland, and up over the zygo- ma at its root, just before the ear, behind the vein, and be- fore the temporal branch of the fifth nerve. It does not perforate the parotid fascia, but is covered by it, or at least involved in it, as it goes up on the temporal muscle. The fascia becomes thinner as it ascends from the zygoma, and at last, is merely cellular. On the zygoma, the artery is not only covered by thin fascia, but also by the anterior auris muscle. Before passing the zygoma, the middle tempoi'al artery is given off, which runs up close before the trunk of the tem- poral, and plunges through the aponeurosis, just above the> zygoma, and ramifies in the substance of the temporal mus- cle, anastomosing with the deeper arteries. Sometimes, it does not come off, till the artery pass the zygoma. The trunk then proceeds up, on the aponeurosis, till it reach, about opposite the junction of the helix and skin of the temple. There, it divides into two branches, one of which, the poste- rior, ramifies backward, and anastomoses with the occipital, and auricular; the other, the anterior, ramifies forward, anas- tomosing on the forehead, with the frontal, and with branches from the other side. It also sends a branch downward and255 forward, by the outer canthus, toward the cheek bone, rami- fying on the orbicularis palpebrarum, and very apt to be divided in injuries of this part. The trunk of the artery, as it crosses the zygoma, is easily felt pulsating, and may be readily exposed and tied, by dividing the anterior auris muscle, and pai'otid fascia, but no ligature ought ever to be be applied here, unless the artery be wounded at this spot. The various temporal branches, communicate so freely with one another, that when any one is wounded, it must, if it bleed much, be tied where it is injured, for no good is gained by tying the trunk. There are no less than five temporal arteries, two deep, two superficial, and one middle, all of which anastomose so freely, that they may be considered as one ramification. I have, indeed, seen the trunk tied on the zygoma, to stop the circulation in an anastomosing aneurism, or the bleeding of a wounded branch, but with as little effect, as if the ligature had, only, included a portion of cellular substance. Pressure with the finger on the zygoma, never for an instant, restrains the bleeding. How then can a ligature do good ? When the temporal artery is intentionally opened, for the purpose of procuring blood, it is, generally, the anterior super- ficial artery which is chosen, and it is punctured, as it is run- ning parallel to the outer angular process of the frontal bone, and not quite two fingers’ breadth behind its edge. But any distinct branch, felt pulsating, may be taken, and the spot and tract being ascertained by the finger, the eye is to be kept steadily on it, and the lancet introduced, as in vene- section, so as to puncture the artery, and make an wound in the integuments, of from a sixth, to a fourth, of an inch long. Should the artery have been missed, the lancet going by its side, it is to be introduced, again, into the wound, grazing its bottom, more or less obliquely, across the tract of the vessel, but not deeper than the front of the vessel. It is known to be opened by the blood springing. When the desired quan- tity is obtained, some, cut across the vessel, to make it retract, or, after doing this, apply a ligature; others, divide the ves- sel with so firm a stroke, as fairly to open a deeper branch,25G and get more blood than they wish. I believe that it is quite sufficient, to lay the lips of the small wound in contact, and apply a little firm button of cloth over it, and a broader, but thick, compress above this, and secure the whole with a roller. If this be properly applied, it obliterates the vessel at the spot; but if the roller move, and do not act, the bleeding returns, and it is in general necessary to tie the vessel. In- deed, in a restless patient, or in the country, this may be proper at first, unless the roller, which should be long, and not, at the most, above two inches broad, be well secured. The artery should never be opened near the zygoma, and still less should we open the trunk before the ear, for the parotid fascia wdiich is thick there, makes it necessary to go deeper, and the blood may more readily pass under it, so as to form, speedily, a diffused swelling, whereby, we not only do not, perhaps, at the moment, obtain so much blood as we de- sire, but are troubled, afterwards, with an aneurismal tumour, or repeated haemorrhage, whilst the distension of the fascia occasions pain and erythematic inflammation. A scalpel is sometimes used to divide the integuments over the artery, and then a lancet is employed to open it, but this is quite unnecessary. The veins of the face correspond to the arteries. The angular or facial vein receives ramuli from the forehead, and runs down by the outside of the artery. It is, at the canthus, as large as an oat straw ; it partly rests on the tendon of the orbicularis, and is neai’er the sac than the artei'y. Then, some of the fibres of the orbicularis spread over it, and it continues its course, by the outside of the artery, over the levator labii, where it covers the infra-orbitar foramen, over the levator anguli oris, zygomaticus minor, and extremity of the parotid duct, or sometimes descends just before its en- trance. It goes under the zygomaticus major, and finally passes either on, or nearly parallel to, the anterior margin of the masseter, beneath the platysmal fascia. Below the jaw, it either forms a common trunk with the lingual, and enters the temporal or the internal jugular, or, it continues down the neck, as the anterior jugular.257 In this course, it receives branches, corresponding to those, of the facial artery, and which are often double, that is, one runs on each side of the arterial ramulus, whilst the facial vein, itself, is single. The posterior facial or temporal vein, is formed by branches, corresponding to those of the temporal and maxillary arteries. The superficial temporal veins form a trunk which passes over the zygoma, just in front of the tem- poral artery, and continues its course in the parotid gland, as formerly noticed, receiving the maxillary, &c. Most of these deep veins are double, that is, there are two accompanying veins to each artery, in some, running along the upper and under, in others, the outer and inner, margins of the arteries. Thus we have two small dental veins: two with the arteria media duraematris, one before, another behind: often two with the transversalis faciei, &c. The trunk of the maxillary artery, is accompanied by two large comites, which, at the condyle of the jaw, partly hide it, one is higher, another lower, and this last, at the ramus, gets rather to the inside of the artery. The veins are so connected with the arteries, that if both be well injected, it is difficult to dissect their ramifications in the fossa, particularly behind the orbit. The NERVES of the face are two in number, the fifth, and the portio dura of the seventh. The latter seems exclusively intended for motion; the third division of the former, for both motion and sensation; the other two divisions for sen- sation. There are three branches of the fifth, for the upper, the mid- dle, and the lower division of the face. The First, passes at once into the orbit, and its distribution has already been no- ticed. I have only now to observe, that it supplies, in so far, the forehead and root of the nose, and canthus of the eye, and is the nerve on which the common sensibility of the eye depends. A certain degree of injury of it, seems also capable of producing amaurosis, ophthalmia, &c. Should it be thought advisable to divide the supra-orbitar nerve, on account of neuralgia, it may easily be done, by cutting to the bone, to the extent of about a quarter of an2^8 inch, parallel to the superciliary ridge, and just "above the foramen or notch, which is, almost, in a line, directly, up from the outer margin of the canine tooth, or, about a finger’s breadth, outward, from the middle of the root of the nose. The nerve is as large as a pack thread. Division of the supra, and infra-trochlearis nerves, is made more inward, near the root of the nose, under the ridge. The Second branch of the fifth pair, passes out by the foramen rotundum, which is just behind the under end of the sphenoid slit, and before the root of the pterygoid process, in a line, directly, up from the end of the alveolar ridge of the upper jaw, and about an inch and three quarters, above the edge of the socket of the last tooth. It is hid by the maxillary bone, and just behind the posterior end of the spheno-maxil- lary fissure, so, that a probe introduced from the inside of the cranium, through the hole, naturally passes on to the orbit. There is a hollow, or sinus, formed immediately before the hole, between the outer and back part, of the orbitar process of the maxillary bone, and the junction of the root of the pterygoid process, and great wing of the sphenoid bone. There, the nerve lies, deep, just above the spheno-maxillary ganglion. The spot, where it issues from the cranium, is about an inch and five-eighths back, from that part of the margin of the orbit, which is below the inferior punctum, and about one and a quarter deep, or transverse, from the cheek bone. The nerve, speedily, enters the spheno-maxillary fissui'e, so, that a very small portion, only, can be seen in a deep dissection. Here, however, it receives two twigs from the ganglion, and gives off two branches. First, the orbitar, runs directly to the oi’bit, by the spheno-maxillary slit, and, immediately, divides into two branches, one of which, the temporal, passes directly from the orbit, by a small groove in the wing, situated exactly at the outside of the slit. It soon plunges into the temporal muscle, and becomes super- ficial. The other, or the malar, communicates with a twig from the lachrymal nerve, and passes out, on the cheek, by the malar hole, which is situated about a quarter of an inch below the edge of the orbit, in a line almost259 directlv down along the outside of the orbit. Second, the posterior dental, or alveolar, consisting of either one or two branches, which run down on the tuberosity of the maxillary bone, sink into small holes in the bone, reach the alveolar cavities, of the three posterior grinders, and supply these and the teeth. The continuation of the nerve, is called the infra-orbitar, for it runs in the infra-orbitar canal, and issues from the infra-orbitar foramen. Before coming out at the foramen, it gives off the anterior dental, which descends on the inside, of the fore part, of the antrum, and is distributed to the two first grinders, and teeth in front. The foramen is situated, three-eighths of an inch, below the edge of the orbit, and about one and a half, inward, from the angle, formed by the orbitar and zygomatic process of the malar bone, but the exact distance varies, a little, according to the arching of the jaw, and prominence of the cheek. It is generally in a line, up, from the fifth tooth from the front, sometimes the ante- rior, sometimes the posterior, margin of that tooth, accord- ing to the breadth of the teeth and the shape of the jaw. The nerve, where it issues, has its trunk covered by the artery, or, sometimes a very little to its outside, but twigs, also, surround, and pass over, the artery. It is covered by the levator labii. On raising this, it is seen splitting into numerous branches, on the surface of the levator anguli oris, which spread in all directions, and interlace with branches of the portio dura. It is distributed to the under eyelid, lip, nose, &c., becoming cutaneous. If we wish to divide the nerve, it is easily done, by intro- ducing a narrow scalpel, in the site of the foramen. A little blood flows, from the division of this artery, and perhaps a small swelling is produced, by effusion of blood. It has been proposed to make a regular dissection, turn aside the levator labii, and cut out a bit of the nerve. The other plan is ac- complished in half a minute, is less painful, and, I believe, equally useful. The patient, for a time, says the side of the nose, and lip, &c., are without feeling. Just at the spheno-palatine fissure, below this branch of260 the fifth, covered by the internal maxillary, is Mekel’s, or the spheno-palatine ganglion, small, flat, and irregular. It lies so deep, and is so defended by muscles, that it is not easily involved in any tumour, and can only be wounded by an instrument, going deep as the fissure itself. It gives off, up- ward, very short branches to connect it with the fifth. Sunk deep, it sends backward, through the pterygoid canal, the Vi- dian branch, which, on coming out of the anterior foramen lacerum, divides into two. One division, passes along the foramen caroticum, down to the superior ganglion of the sym- pathetic nerve, connected with the carotid artery. Another, turns up into the cranium, and enters a groove of the tempo- ral bone, where it is connected with the portio dura, and pro- ceeds Into the tympanum. This it crosses, as the chorda tym- pani, and issues at, or runs along, the glenoid fissure, for no part is seen in the articulating cavity. It appears like a small thread, just at the inside of the styloid process of the sphenoid bone, is speedily connected with the gustatory nerve, which it presently leaves, and forms a plexus round the submaxillary gland. From its origin, to its issue, at the styloid process, no part is visible, being hid by bone, and the fibrous mem- brane, covering the foramen lacerum. Other branches of the ganglion, the lateral nasal, go inward by the spheno-pala- tine fissure into the nose. One of these, goes down, even in- to the foramen incisivum, where, joining with the twig from the opposite side, it forms, what has been called, lately, the naso-palatine ganglion. Twigs, from this third division of the branches, go also to the palate. The fourth direction is downward, and these branches form the palatine nerves. The great palatine nerve, after sending a twig into the nose, descends in the pterygo-palatine canal, which ends in the palato-maxillary foramen. It is accompanied by the descend- ing palatine artery. Both ramify in the palate, and may be divided, by cutting at the roof of the mouth, close by the alve- olar process of the last tooth. The middle palatine nerve, comes out at a small foramen, before the pterygoid plate, and goes to the soft palate. The small palatine, is behind, and goes also to the velum, uvula, and amygdala.261 The Third branch, issues by the foramen ovale, which is situated in a direction, obliquely outward, from the outer plate of the pterygoid process, just behind the I’oot of the process, and in a line inward, from a point, half an inch before the condyle of the jaw. If the finger be introduced into the mouth, and carried up to the base of the skull, along the process, it will press on the foramen, through the phai’ynx. This division, differs from the others, in receiving on its under surface, at the Gasserian ganglion, a nerve, which rises rather farther forward, than the main trunk, from the tuber, and becomes combined with this division, after it issues from the foramen, but the gustatory nerve has the smallest proportion. This addition is a muscular, or motor nerve, so, that the third branch, unlike the two first, is a nerve both of motion and sensation, and in locked jaw, is a princi- pal agent, though, I have not been able to discover any mor- bid appearance in the nerve, from the tuber forward, after death. But neither do we, often, discover any disease in the motor portion of the spinal marrow, though the muscles it supplies, are dreadfully affected. The trunk, just after it issues from the foramen, divides into four primary branches. The First speedily subdivides into. First, two branches which mount in the temporal fossa, to ramify in the muscle. They are the Deep Temporal nerves, and like the arteries, are ante- rior and posterior, but the last is sometimes given off from the masseteric. Second, the Massetericus, which runs almost directly outward, crosses the upper surface of the external pterygoid, and, passing out at the sigmoid notch, behind the implantation of the temporal muscle, is distributed, minutely, on the under surface and into the substance of, the mas- seter. Third, the Buccinator, is, often, like the trunk or con- tinuation of this subdivision. It runs obliquely forward and downward, first, between the pterygoideii, and, then, be- tween the bone and internal pterygoideus, toward the front of the ramus, or coronoid process, and issues between the masseter and buccinator. The trunk comes out on the buc- cinator, from under the margin of the masseter, fully three quarters of an inch below the margin of the malar bone. It262 not only I'amifies on and in the buccinator, but sends down- ward and forward, in the direction of the alveoli of the lower jaw, a long branch, which is distributed to the angle of the mouth and lower lip, connecting itself with twigs of the por- tio dura. The nerve, at its issue from within the coronoid process, is first higher, but always deeper, than the parotid duct, and, then, from its oblique course, a little lower. Some- times, it issues in small divisions. Before this, it gives a branch to the temporal muscle. Fourth, two or more small pterygoid nerves, go to the muscles of that name, particu- larly the internal. The Second, Auricular, or Superficial Temporal nerve, runs backward and downward, passes between the pterygoid muscles, and down on the inside of the condyle, and upper part of the cervix of the jaw. It, from being.in contact, for some time, with the dental nerve, looks like a branch sent off from it, and it is often very little less than that nerve. It runs to the portio dura, becoming quickly smaller, uniting with it, or form- ing a plexus, whilst, before it is lost in the plexus, a branch, as large as a pack thread, turns up, from the nerve, in the substance of the parotid gland, between the condyle and meatus auditorius, and crosses over the zygoma, be- hind the temporal artery, mounting to the temple, and be- coming cutaneous. Some deep twigs go to the meatus. Its communication with the portio dura, and subsequent transmission of its substance along with it, is a fact of import- ance, in as much as, on the principles of Sir C. Bell, it ex- plains how the portio dura, in so far as it partakes of these branches, should evince sensibility. The third, and fourth, large branches, continue down, between the pterygoid mus- cles, but they then, or during this tract, separate. Both nerves, whether separated, or connected by cellular substance, usually cross, in their descent, the outside of the maxillary artery, about the lower margin of the pterygoideus externus, but, sometimes, the gustatory passes on its inside. The Dental or Mandibulo-labialis, after passing the pterygoideus externus, reaches the posterior margin of the internus, runs down be- tween it and the bone, either just before, or on the inside of,the dental artery, skirting the anterior margin of the lateral ligament of the jaw, till it come near the foramen, and then it passes between the ligament and the bone, entering the canal, sending twigs upward to the roots of the teeth, whilst the continuation of the nerve passes out of the mental hole, to be distributed, in a radiated form, upward and outward, chiefly, to the lip and chin. This foramen, is overlapped, by the anterior margin of the depressor anguli oris, and covered, by the depressor labii inferioris. It is situated about midway, between the under margin of the jaw, and that of the alveolar processes, rather more than an inch back, from the centre of the chin, under the fifth tooth from the front, or, if they be wide, or large, between the fourth and fifth. The continuation of the artery, issues with it. Before this nerve enter the canal, it gives olf a small branch, the mylo- hyoideus, which runs downward and forward, in a groove in the jaw bone to the muscle, from which it is named, and the anterior belly of the digastric. The Gustatory, or Lingual branch is smaller, and runs a little more forward, and always more median than the dental. It passes out, from between the bone, and internal pterygoid, about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the jaw blade, and joins the tongue, about the insertion of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Its relation to the tongue has been described at page 206. It also gives twigs to the internal pterygoid, and sublingual gland. This branch, is very early, whilst it is passing between the pterygoideus externus, and the outer surface of the circumplexus palati, [which traverses the posterior margin of the internus,] joined by the corda tympani, which continues connected with it, as it runs be- tween the internal pterygoid and the jaw. But, when the gustatory inclines toward the tongue, this soon issues, also, from between them, and forms a plexus on the submaxillary gland. The Portio dura, or Facial nerve, issues fully a quarter of an inch above the end of the mastoid process, from the fora- men stylo-mastoideum, which is situated nearly in a line.2G4 directly back, from the junction of the malar and maxillary bones. The trunk of the nerve, which is half an inch long, passes forward about a quarter of an inch, and a little down- ward, nearer the angle of the jaw, or lower than the cartila- ginous tube of the ear. It is about half an inch deeper, than the surface of the mastoid process, or from three quarters, to seven-eighths, deep from the surface of the skin. It is nearly in contact with the stylo-mastoid avtei'y, but higher. It crosses the styloid process near its root, just under the meatus auditorius, and is itself crossed, at its issue, by the arteria posterior auris. It enters the gland behind the posterior facial vein. On issuing from the stylo-mastoid hole, the nerve, very soon, gives off many branches. One, descends a little, and, then, curves upward and backward, on, or before, the mastoid process. It is the posterior auricular, and divides into two branches; one, is distributed on the back of the external ear, the other, mounts on the occiput. It is to be remembei'ed, that there is also an aiu’icular nerve, from the second cervical. Then, the stylo-hyoideus, and digastricus, or sub-mastoid, come off separately, or in a common branch, and are distri- buted to these muscles, and send twigs to the glosso-phar- yngeus, accessory, and superior ganglion, and even ramify on the vessels as the carotid, &c. Then, in the gland, the nerve divides into two large branches, the temporo-facial, and the cervico-facial. The first, is directed forward and upward, crosses the condyle, and splits into several rami. It gives off the superficial temporal, which ascends over the zygoma, and ramifies upward, dividing first into two branches, between the skin and aponeurosis. The more transverse, or facial rami, are subdivided into tlie malai’, buccal and masseteric, or the superior, middle, and in- ferior facial nerves, which are distributed, as their names in- dicate, to the orbicularis palpebrarum, cheek, mouth, &c. Two, go to the cheek, as malar, three, as buccal. 1 he largest branch, is variable, in its relation, to the transversalis artery, being most frequently higher, though sometimes lower, or on265 it. It runs higher than the parotid duct, whilst a mesh work usually covers the duct. The radiation of these nerves, has given them the appellation of pes anserinus. The cervico-facial, which, from the connexion of the por- tio dura, with the fifth, often seems, like a branch of the latter, runs obliquely downward, in the substance of the gland, and covered by the ramus of the jaw. At the angle, it goes obliquely forward, under the platysma, and divides into several branches. The facial division, or the inferior facial nerve, gives the supra-maxillary nerve, to the jaw and chin, and others, to the lower part of the cheek and lip. The cervical division sends, from behind the angle of the jaw, the sub-maxillary, which goes forward, below the jaw, to the chin. The descending, or cervical branch, ramifies on the upper part of the neck, and is connected with twigs from the cervical nerves. It is the cutaneous superior of some writers. Sometimes, the portio dura in place of divid- ing thus, in the gland, into two larger portions, a superior and inferior, splits, at once, into the various subdivisions. The ultimate distribution of the ramuli is pretty regular, but their exact course is somewhat variable. When this nerve is injured, in its function, by any cause, the muscles of the face, are either liable to spasmodic twitches, or become paralyzed. An example of the first, is seen in quiv- ering of the eyelid, and in chorea; of the second, in those cases, where the muscles of the face, on one side, being inert, the mouth is drawn to the opposite side, and, the orbicularis be- coming powerless, the eyelid cannot be closed. It is well known, that the first is often dependant on the state of the bowels, though, also, producible by disease of the brains The second, may be caused by an affection of the trunk, or par- ticular division of the nerve, in consequence of local disease, or tumour. It may also be produced by the state of the ear, in suppuration, or of the jaw, in dentition, particularly in getting a wisdom tooth. This, however, more frequently affects branches of the fifth pair, the buccinator, for instance. But if no evident local cause, exterior to the brain, can be detected, such paralysis, whether partial, or universal, of the266 side of the face, is always to be viewed with apprehension, as, in the young or the old, it is too often a precursor of hydro- cephalus, or, of fatal organic affection, of the brain. If there be no disease within the cranium, such affections, whether of , the orbicularis palpebrarum, or side of the face, are often re- moved, by a course of purgatives, tonics, and repeated small blisters before the ear. It is of essential importance, to remove the paralysis of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as con- stant exposure of the eye, produces inflammation, and loss of sight. As the effect of dividing this nerve, is to paralyze the muscles it supplies, we may foresee the consequence of acciden- tal wounds, or of regular operations, when the principal branches have been cut, the special effect, depending on the particular radiation divided. A general rule, in the extirpa- tion of tumours in its tract, is not to go deeper, than is abso- lutely necessary, when the nerve lies between them and the muscles. I conclude this chapter, by noticing some parts, which may be injured, in particular wounds. I have already described, (page 132) how a sharp instrument may enter the orbit or nostril. In wounds, strictly above the zygoma, the temporal muscle and its aponeurosis, the temporal arteries, and nerves are the parts to be injured. If the aponeurosis inflame, the muscle is also affected, and the jaw becomes very stiff: if matter form below it, there is a necessity for an early and free open- ing. If it go obliquely down, within the zygoma, the tempo- ral muscle and pterygoideii, the internal maxillaiy, or deep temporal artery, or nerve, moy be more or less injured, and the instrument may even proceed into the fauces. If it go deep, and obliquely downward, inward, and back- ward, it may wound the internal carotid; if still more back- ward, the external carotid and jugular veins, sympathetic ganglion and ninth nerve. If as directly downward, as pos- sible, it may either pass on the outside of the ramus into the masseter, or by its inside, through the pterygoideii into the mouth and tongue, or fauces.267 In the region of the notch, the masseter, perhaps part of the parotid gland, and the muscles, vessels, and nerves, already noticed, may be more or less injured, according to the direction of the instrument, with the exception of the ex- ternal carotid, which is less in danger, though not absolutely safe. It may run along the basilary process. Behind the ramus of the jaw, a stab or wound may injure the parotid gland, external carotid artery, facial vein, or the portio dura, or its descending branches. If it go deep, it may also interest the internal carotid, jugular vein, sympa- thetic ganglion, pharynx, &c. On the ramus, the masseter, parotid gland, or its duct, branches of the portio dura, and transversalis artery may be injured. From the mouth, back to the ramus, much injury may be done. The facial artery, and vein, with their branches, the continuation of the transversalis artery, branches of the por- tio dura, and buccinator nerves, and parotid duct, may be divided, or, the wound may penetrate into the mouth, or divide the side of the lip. Between the jaws, at the front of the coronoid process, the buccinator, and nerves on it, and the vessels, and parotid duct, may be divided. If the instrument enter, nearly, directly backward, the pterygoideus externus, internal carotid, and jugular, are most likely to suffer. If, above the lower end of the pterygoid process, it run as much inward as the bone will permit, but not much downward, it will go to the fora- men, where the ninth nerve issues. If it break the process, or run lower than its extremity, it may go across, at, or be- hind, the velum, to the other side, and injure there any of the great vessels or important nerves. If directed down- ward, it will injure the tongue or pharynx. If it be directed below the end of the pterygoid process, it may not only in- jure any of these parts, but go in such a direction, as to cut the sympathetic ganglion, or injure the glottis. In all wounds of the face, the general rule of securing the vessels, and bringing, and retaining, the surfaces, as close as possible, so as to prevent deformity, is to be observed. In268 the more resisting, or better supported parts, plaster may be sufficient, but in the looser parts, as the lip, the twisted suture is to be employed, and this is sometimes even required on the cheek. Puncture of the parotid duct, may be cured, without the obliteration of the portion nearest the extremity. But com- plete division of the tube, does not admit of reunion, so as to make a continuous canal. The saliva flows from the divided duct, and a fistula, as it is called, is produced. If the wound go through the buccinator, into the mouth, we have only carefully to close the outer part of the wound, and leave the inner surface, toward the mouth, unapproximated, so that a fistula is produced, opening into the mouth. The saliva flows thus, as if the duct were entire, only it enters a little farther back. If the duct be certainly divided, but the buc- cinator still entire, we must act on the same principle, push the knife through the muscle, and unite the external surface; for, in all such divisions, there must be a fistula, and we have only to choose, whether that shall open into the mouth, or outwardly, on the cheek, producing a perpetual flow of saliva there. The choice is not difficult to make, and if the duct be divided on the buccinator, a good cure may be effected. But, only about three-eighths of an inch, of the duct, run there, whilst thei’e may be about three quarters of an inch, on the masseter muscle. If the masseteric portion be divided, near the margin of the muscle, the treatment may be expected, at once, to succeed. But if divided farther back, the sinus which is to lead to the mouth, must be very oblique, and there is a risk of the saliva infiltrating itself into the surrounding parts, if it be prevented from flowing, by the external wound. It has been proposed, when an external fistula has taken place, (and in recent wounds, the same plan may be resorted to as a preventive,) to introduce a small trocar, from the wound, obliquely forward, to the buccinator, and pierce it. A piece of soft silver, or lead wire, is then introduced through the canula, which is next withdrawn. The trocar is again introduced from the same spot, but made to enter the mouth, at a little distance from the first puncture. The269 other end of the wire is then turned into the canula, and pushed into the mouth. An angular portion, of cellular substance and buccinator, is thus included between the two limbs of the wire, and the ends being twisted together, in the mouth, this is constricted. Like a seton, the wire gradually, by absorption, is more and more loosened, and to use a com- mon expression, eats its way into the mouth. In the mean time, we have, from the first, been keeping the external wound closed, and may thus produce, an oblique fistula, into the mouth. When the gland itself is injured, we must lay the external wound closely together, and use moderate pressure, other- wise, a glandular fistula may be produced. The object is to obliterate the extremities of the divided ramuli. If a fistula have been produced, the same object is to be kept in view. When a part of the gland suppurates, and the abscess breaks externally, or a part sloughs out, we have no fistula in gen- eral produced, because the vasa efferentia are thus obliter- ated. CHAP. III. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE CLAVICULAR REGION, AND UPPER EXTREMITY. The vacancy at the top of the thorax, is from four inches, to four and a half, broad, or from one side to the other, and one and three quarters from the inside of the sternum, to the front of the vertebrae: but if we go back to the articulation of the rib, at the side of the vertebrae, it is three and a half. There passes, behind, on the spine, the oesophagus, which, when distended, can allow a substance, an inch in diameter, to descend. Just before this, is the trachea, the antero- posterior diameter of which, varies, from five, to seven-eighths of an inch. It is not close to the sternum, but descends from270 five-eighths to nine-tenths behind it, the intervening space being occupied by the arteria innominata, and partly by the vein. The space is thus filled, completely, in the flaccid state of the oesophagus, and therefore, when a large morsel of food passes, the back part of the trachea, which is pliable, must, for the instant, be pressed a little forward, the whole tube moved a little, perhaps half an inch, forward, and the vessels more or less com- pressed. Hence, a bulky substance, if impacted there, or, at eight inches and a half, from the front teeth, of the upper jaw, may produce immediate suffocation, and, on the other hand, aneurism of the innominata, or enlargement of the thymus gland, may not only affect the breathing, but cause dysphagia. As the trachea is barely an inch broad, at the most, there must be a space, on each side of it, of about an inch and a half, and although this, at each end, is encroached on, to the extent of about a quarter of an inch, by the scalenus anticus, yet, the distance fi’om the trachea to the margin of the scalenus, is fully three quarters of an inch, and there is ample space left for the great vessels and nerves, and for lat- eral distension of the oesophagus, and the partial motion of that tube itself, which lessens the necessity for it, in the ante- ro-posterior direction. It also permits of more motion of the trachea, without affecting the vessels. The relation of the pleura to this space, and the covering of fascia, have been described at page 66. The rib is placed, obliquely, from the sternum, up to the transverse process of the verte- brae, where it is articulated, about an inch higher, than the surface of the clavicle. If we make a deep and extensive in- cision above the clavicle, and thrust back the finger to the spine, we feel the rib coming off from that, like a flat process, and can trace it forward and downward, to the end of the clavicle. The rib, at the sternum, is not quite half an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle. It is level with it, about an inch and three quarters, fi'om the sternal articulation, and then gets gradually higher. The most important point, is its height, at the outer margin of the scalenus, where the artery Issues. This must, of necessity, vary, a little, according271 lo the obliquity and curvature of the rib, the breadth of the scalenus, which determines the site of the artery, and the shape of the clavicle, and position of the arm; for, if the shoulder be raised, the clavicle rises higher, but it scarcely makes a difference of more than an eighth of an inch, at the spot where the artery passes. At the inner margin of the sca- lenus, the rib is very little higher, than the under surface of the clavicle. At the outer margin, where the artery passes, the rib is, generally, lower than the upper surface of the clavicle, though sometimes on a line with it. The degree varies from an eighth, to three-eighths, of an inch, and it must be remember- ed that the rib, being oblique, will be an eighth higher at the outer or upper, than at the inner, margin of the artery, at its exit. The depth of the rib from the inner surface of the clavicle, at the outer margin of the scalenus, is variable, owing to its curvature, and that of the clavicle, and the breadth of the muscle. Generally, it is five-eighths of an inch, but sometimes more, so that the face of the artery itself, even when injected, may be that depth, and the uninjected, seven- eighths. At page 10, et seq., I have described the scalenus and other muscles, which wind round the rib, shutting up, so far, the entrance into the thorax, and, at page 66, I have explained the oblique ascent of the pleura, and the fibrous covering it possesses, at the side of the trachea. At page 108, the course of the vertebral artery, mammaria, and cervicalis profunda, is described, and at 177, that of the subclavian on both sides, before entering the scaleni muscles, and also the relation to important nerves. At page 79, the thoracic duct is noticed; at 117, and 181, there is an outline of the arterial branches in this district, and at 183, the relation of the axillary plexus of nerves. By comparing all these, the necessity of repetition, here, is lessened. J The most important branches, in this district, are given off, at the inner margin of the scalenus, from one trunk or axis. These are, the transversalis humeri, or supra-scapularis, and the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular, with their corre- sponding veins. We have also other two sets of branches,272 01105 given off just before the thyroid5 consisting of the verte- bral and mammaria interna; another, after the artery enters behind the scalenus, consisting of the cervicalis profunda, and superior intercostal. Sometimes, the posterior scapular comes off from the subclavian, just as it issues from the scalenus. The subclavian itself, as it issues from between the scaleni, requires much consideration, both in its situation and rela- tions. If the subject be placed on the back, and we drop a line, perpendicularly, from the upper surface of the clavicle, to the outer margin of the scalenus, where the artery issues, this will be found to be, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and three quarters, from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion, the variation depending, partly, on the size of the adult bones, partly, on the breadth of the muscle. The usual dis- tance, in adults, of either sex, is an inch and five-eighths. The height.of the upper margin of the artery, relative to that of the clavicle, also varies. The range is from a quarter of an inch below it, to five-eighths above it. The number of instances below, is small; in many, it is level, but in most, it is above, and of these, the usual height is three-eighths. As the artery passes on the rib obliquely, its upper margin is not, necessarily, the full diameter of the vessel higher than the lower one. Behind the scalenus, the artery is sometimes higher than at its exit. It enters variably. Sometimes, it rises considerably above the clavicle, iir some instances nearly an inch. Then, it gets behind the muscle and bends downward. Generally, it enters very little above the clavicle, or nearly about the same height at which it issues, running almost horizontally. The length of the artery, in this course, depends on the breadth of the scalenus anticus, which, at the rib, is so related to the posticus, that although the artery is said to pass be- tween them, yet, it scarcely rests on the latter, lying from its origin, to the rib, on the pleura costalis, with the intervention of the fibrous fascia, which covers that there, and the sympa- thetic nerve, and on the right side, the recurrent. It issues between the anticus and rib, or is merely skirted as it were, behind, by the posticus, or rests on part of its thin tendin- ous extremity. Its depth here, like its height, is not uniformly273 tl)e same. The shape of the clavicle and rib, must have some effect, but it, still more, depends on the breadth of the scalenus, the difference of even an eighth of an inch, making an alteration. If the artery issue, at the usual distance, of an inch and five-eighths from the articulation, it is generally half an inch, or five-eighths deep, or back, from the inner surface of the clavicle. But, if it turn over the rib, farther out, the muscle being broad, it may be three quarters, or sometimes even seven-eighths. It is of more consequence to attend to the depth, thus taken, from the inside, than from the skin on the outside of the clavicle, for, in an operation, the bone is a better guide than the skin. Its depth from that, unless in unusually fat subjects, ranges from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and a half. The artery lies close on the rib, between it and the scale- nus. The first dorsal nerve, is just above the artery there, or may be behind its upper margin. It is either, almost immedi- ately, connected with the last cervical, so as to form a two-headed nerve, which is continued along the upper margin of the artery, or, it is continued individually. The whole plexus lies higher, and more outward, than the artery, but sometimes the anterior thoracic, or a small branch from it, crosses the face of the vessel, near the part which is to be tied in an operation. The subclavian vein, passes on the face of the rib, farther forward, separated from the artery, by the scalenus anticus, and at the point when the artery issues, it is scarcely three- eighths of an inch lower. There are veins, still more, connected with the operation, of tying the subclavian artery. The internal jugular, passes down, to a greater or less extent, on the surface of the sca- lenus anticus. Its outer margin, near the clavicle, always is fully an inch out from the articulation, fi'equently a quarter, sometimes even three quarters of an inch, more, so that it may, though rarely, lie on the point where the artei’y issues. Next, the external jugular vein descends, from the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle, to the clavicle, whicli it gen- erally reaches, at fully two inches, though sometimes at one and three quarters, out from the sternal end. It sweeps II. rp274 forward, within the clavicle, on a level with its upper margin, and close by the bone, to enter the root of the internal jugu- lar. These two veins, then, which run down, though at dif- ferent depths, unite below, by the passing forward of the ex- ternal, and in this intervening space, the artery is to be sought for, and we must, in order to avoid these veins, neither go too far forward, nor very far back, nor close by the mar- gin of the clavicle. The distance between the veins may be about an inch. It must, however, be remembered, that the internal jugular, sometimes goes far out, and the external, in others, is so far forward, as to meet the clavicle at the outer margin of the artery, or even at the spot where it issues. There may thus be less than half an inch between them. If we cut the platysma, in the space between the mastoid and trapezius muscles, we find under it, a quantity of cellular substance, with several glands. On cleaning this, which is somewhat triangular in shape, we find it bounded, behind, by the external jugular vein, below, by the clavicle, and that vein, whilst, farther inward, beneath the mastoid muscle, we shall find the internal jugular. Dissecting off a deeper layer of fascia, we expose, at a depth of at least half an inch back from the inner surface of the bone, the artery, with the nerves to its outside, and also higher. Fully an inch above the clavicle, we see the transversalis colli artery, crossing out- wardly, on the scalenus muscle, to get below the trapezius, whilst its large vein runs parallel to it, but lower, coming to enter the jugular. The transversalis humeri, also from the thyroid axis, runs outward, and descends on the scalenus, then, on the axillary plexus. From its oblique course, it soon meets the clavicle, and runs outward, just within its up- per margin, with its large corresponding vein, which enters the internal jugular, at the angle made with the subclavian vein. From the transversalis colli vein, there is often a branch sent down, by the outer margin of the scalenus, to join the transversalis humeri. This sometimes crosses the artery, just as it issues, and is in the way when we expose the vessel. Occasionally, we have also, just higher, a branch coming out through the plexus, to run in to the internaljugular, and therefore we must not go, at any point, unneces- sarily deep, or insulate the artery without proper inspection. The Lymphatics are not so much in the way of being in- jured, for, the cervical absorbents run with the internal jugular, and the brachial with the subclavian vein. Still, some must be divided, in the operation of exposing the artery, and several glands occupy the very space which must be dissected. When the artery is to be tied, the first thing is to mark, exactly, with the eye, at the upper margin of the clavicle, the point which is an inch and five-eighths out from its sternal end, for that indicates, as nearly as possible, the outer mar- gin of the scalenus. An incision about two inches and a half long, is next to be made, merely through the skin, parallel to the clavicle, and very little above it. We begin it three quarters of an inch, or an inch, from the articulation. We then cautiously divide the platysma, but not, at least, till we see if it be necessary, quite to the same extent. The exter- nal jugular vein, which is either in or under the platysma, is to be shunned; but as it is not uniform in the point where it meets the clavicle, it may be necessary to draw it either inward or outward in prosecuting the dissection. Having exposed the space between the mastoid and trapezius mus- cles, by dividing the platysma, and noting the point which corresponds to the issue of the artery, we next consider, how much of the clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle must be divided. This sometimes arises from the clavicle, for two inches and three quarters, from the articulation. Two and a half, is not an unusual extent, but even if less, it must be di- vided inward, for some way nearer the articulation, than an inch and a half, but, if possible, not nearer than an inch and a quarter, as it is desirable not to expose the internal jugular vein, which sometimes extends fully to that distance. At- tending to the safety of the external jugular, we proceed to cut, more and more deeply, down to the outer margin of the scalenus, but not nearer the articulation than that. -The glands and cellular substance, are to be laid hold of with for- ceps, and raised or rendered tight as we cut, and are,27G together with the integuments, to be held aside by retractors, but we ought not to cut out, or remove, any of the substance, if we can avoid it; but, if necessary, one or two glands are more usefully removed, than cellular substance. We recollect now the relation of the veins and arterial bi-anches, and steer clear of the immediate surface of the clavicle. The finger introduced into the wound, directly back, if the patient be sitting, will, at the point already noted, feel the resisting rib, at the mai'gin of the scalenus, and by cautious dissection, using the forceps and the sponge, the artery is exposed. But, in doing this, there is much risk of dividing the deep veins already described, which would bleed freely, and obscure the parts. If these cannot be avoided, or if any small artery be wounded, a ligatux'e should be immediately applied. It is also necessary to remember, that either the supra or posterior scapular artery, sometimes, comes off from the subclavian, just at this point, and therefore much circumspection is re- quired in sepai'ating the artery. This is farther unfortunate, in as much as if the ligature be applied beyond the origin of this branch, it must be so near it, as to render oblitei’ation less certain, and if nearer the heart, then, we are deprived of a valuable anastomosing branch, but this is the least of the two evils. This is also the case, when the artery rises a lit- tle farther on. In some instances, the transversalis humeri (from the thyroid) is close on the muscles and nerves, at the exit of the artery, in place of being more forward toward the clavicle. It may be so close on the artery, as to require to be drawn up. I have seen both of these cix'cumstances of the arteries, in the same subject, combined, also, with the ex- ternal jugular vein, covering the spot where the artery issued. The omo-hyoideus, is sometimes so low, as to require to be drawn up, in order to expose the artery. The finger, far less the knife, must never be carried lower, on the rib, than necessary, lest we lay the foundation of burrowing, or extension of matter afterwards, or immediately injure the subclavian vein. The artery lies close on the rib, and is to be insulat- ed with a blunt instrument. Its avex*age height, and depth fx’om the inner surface of the clavicle, have been already r277 mentioned. The lowest nerve is chiefly above, though also, partly, behind the artery. In a few instances, the artery is crossed here by a small nerve, from the axillary plexus, run- ning downward and inward, but this, if the artery be properly exposed, will be divided, and cannot therefore be included in the ligature. The instrument, whatever it may be, used for passing the ligature, is, with most advantage, to be directed upward and outward. The risk, arising from deficiency of circulation in the arm, after the operation, is small, if there be no disease there, for the anastomosing vessels are large. But, independent of the chance of haemorrhage, from the state of the artery, and failure of obliteration, we have not only to meet the serious constitutional consequences of tying a large artery (vol. i. p. 68), but also the effect on the brain, from the special disturbance, or excitement, of the vertebral and carotid arteries. These two causes, in spite of the mostefficient treatment, may carry off" the patient, long before there be time for death to be produced by secondary haemorrhage, and the danger is the more certain, if the arterial system in general, or the vessels going off from the aorta, be preter- naturally enlarged. In deciding on the propriety of an operation for subclavian aneurism, we must not only look at the condition of the arteries, as a system, and consider the state of the constitution, but we must have good ground to believe, not only that the artery, where it issues, and is to be tied, is sound, but, that there is a sufficient portion of sound artery between the aneurism, and the spot to be tied, to give a fair prospect, that there shall be no retrograde haemorrhage. It has been indeed proposed, to divide part of the scalenus, so as to tie the artery a little nearer the heart. We may, without touching the phrenic nerve, cut about half an inch of the scalenus, which is about a quarter of an inch thick. We then expose the subclavian, resting on the pleui’a cos- talis, or its fibrous covering, but we must tie it where it is going off the cervicalis profunda, and superior intercostal, and about the same place, it gives off the supra-scapular artery, where this does not come from the thyroid. The objections then to this pi'oposal, arc too strong to be got over. As to278 the proposal of tying the artery, before it enter behind the scalenus on the right side, it is, though difficult, doubtless practicable, if we look to the mere application of the ligature, but, it is quite inconsistent with safety. On dividing the sterno-mastoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, at the extremity of the clavicle, we expose the internal jugular vein. On drawing this aside, with a thyroid vein which often bounds its inner margin, we come to a fascia covering the artery, though sometimes the vertebral vein presents, instead of be- ing behind the artery. The relation of the nerves is noticed formerly, and even in the dead subject, a ligature cannot be passed without disturbing them. The artery is half an inch back from the inner surface of the clavicle, and its upper margin often very little above that of the clavicle. The whole space, from the giving off of the carotid, to the entrance be- hind the scalenus, is usually only about five-eighths of an inch, and there, immediately behind the artery and nerves, is the pleura, in danger of being injured. Add to all this, the chance of failure, from the carotid coming off so near the site of the ligature. It is much safer, as well as easier, to tie the arteria innominata (page 72). The operation is still more hazardous on the left side. There, it is from three quarters, to more than an inch, back from the inner surface of the clavicle. Its inner margin comes up, about a quarter, out from the articulation. The artery bends out to the scalenus, with its upper margin about level, with that of the clavicle. To insulate and tie the arter}', thus deep, without injuring the pleura would require great care and delicacy, even were there no other parts in connexion. But let us attend to this connexion. In dissecting here, under the muscles, we see, first, the carotid artery and jugular vein. Separating these from one another, we find the eighth nerve, on the vertebral vein, which is traversed, on its inside, by a thyroid branch. Under these, we have the vertebral artery, with a ganglion or plexus of nerves, both before and behind it. The vertebral artery and vein, are rather covered by the carotid than the jugular. Laying hold of the vertebral artery, we can pull up, a little, the subclavian, which gives it off’, and which is279 lying deep behind the clavicle. The phrenic nerve runs down, on the outside of the vertebral and subclavian arteries, the eighth descends on the face of the subclavian. But if these can, with difficulty, be preserved from injury, the sym- pathetic branches, even if the ganglion were safe, cannot escape. The recurrent nerve comes up, deep, at the side of the trachea, parallel to the subclavian, but not so near it as to be exposed. The thoracic duct winds outward, from be- hind the carotid artery, across the posterior surface of the jugular vein, and must be in great danger, even, although the subclavian, bend behind the scalenus, lower than the arch of the duct. Let us next attend to the Subclavicular or Pectoral, and Axillary region. This is covered, first of all, by the large Pectoral muscle, which is divided into a clavicular and sternal portion, sometimes, separated from each other, by a distinct, and even broad cellular line, but in other cases, distinguishable, only, by the course of the fibres. The line of separation, is not always, exactly, from the sternal end of the clavicle, but occasionally from half an inch, to an inch, more outward. If the arm be close by the side, it runs toward the humerus, or front of the axilla, to a point, near half an inch below the extremity of the coracoid process. The deltoid muscle, arises from the outer third of the clavicle, and its an- terior margin, bounds that of the pectoralis, at the clavicle, but, presently, lies a little over the latter, the tendon of which passes under it, and is wrapped over the biceps, to which it adheres, by cellular substance. The long head of the biceps, is just on the inside of the insertion of the pectoralis. The extent of this insertion, varies in different individuals, not merely owing to their size, but to the peculiarity of the muscle. The sternal portion of the muscle, is inserted, directly, by a thin tendon, into the upper margin of which, the clavicular portion is obliquely implanted. In some, the tendon extends for near two inches and a half, from the neck of the bone. In others, it does not begin to be inserted till more than an inch below its head. When the tendon is inserted abruptly, that is, with margins nearly parallel to each other, it may be 4280 little more than an inch and a half broad, but, often, it is prolonged, by a firm band, down by the outside of the coraco- brachieus, for an inch farther, or, altogether, even to five inches and a half below the top of the head of the bone. This must be remembered, in considering the action of the muscle, in fracture. The platysma extends down a little way, over the clavicle; and the superficial fascia of the axilla, is continued on the surface of the muscle. On raising the pectoralis major, we see a layer of fascia which covers the pectoralis minor and subclavius, and the space which inter- venes between them. If we dissect it off this space, which is sometimes more than an inch broad, we expose the vessels, and nerves, imbedded in cellular substance. The Subclavius, arising from the first rib, and costo-clavicu- lar ligament, is inserted into the clavicle, from about an inch of its sternal end, all the way out, to the coracoid process, and into that process itself. It is about half an inch broad, and, besides being lined with fascia, is covered by an apon- eurosis, which, at the margin of the muscle, is ligamentous, and being at the sternal end, inserted both into the rib and clavicle, it has been called ligamentum bicorne. From this, a fascia goes off to the rib, rendering it broader, and forming a more extended covering for the subclavian vein at that part. The upper margin of the Pectoralis minor, is nearly, though not quite parallel to the edge of the subclavius, but not in contact with it; the distance varyingfi'om five-eighths, to more than an inch, where the artery passes. It may be pretty correctly marked, by a line drawn from that part of the coracoid process, which can be felt about half an inch for- ward, from the clavicle, to the second rib, at the sternum, though the muscle do not rise from that rib. This will be from almost two, to two inches and a half, below the under margin of the clavicle, near the articulation. The under margin, is in a line, from half an inch back from the point of the coracoid process, continued downwax'd and forward, a very little above the margin of the pectoralis major, near the junction of the fold of the axilla with the thorax. The in-281 sertion of the muscle, is about five-eighths broad, and its breadth, at that part where the artery passes below it, is more than an inch. These muscles, form the anterior boundary of the axilla and subclavicular region, and, with the aid of the deltoid, at the coracoid process, shut it up every-where in front, below the clavicle. Behind, are the subscapularis, and latissimus dorsi, the last of which, with the teres major, which it in a manner encloses, form the posterior margin of the axilla, as the pectoralis major does the anterior. The Latissimus, at the ribs, is connected to the Serratus major, by a fascia, which is continued, with it, on the scapula, uniting it to the teres and infra-spinatus. It crosses the angular part of the scap- ula, covering completely the teres, for two inches from the angle. This last, then appears, first, between it and the infra-spinatus, and, then, farther on, between it and the del- toid. The anterior margin of the latissimus, gradually winds over, in front of the teres, yet, part remains behind, con^ nected to the infra-spinatus, thus forming a channel for the teres, which is enclosed between it, and the subscapularis. The muscle is not quite in front of the teres, till about an inch and a half of its implantation; all the tendon is before that of the teres. Indeed, in some cases, the fibres of the latter seem to be implanted into the posterior surface of the tendon of the latissimus, making use of it, but usually it is in- serted by a short flat tendon of its own. The tendon of the latissimus is about an inch and a half broad. Its upper mar- gin, is implanted, about half an inch below the edge of the head of the bone. It partly adheres to the biceps by cellular substance. The tendons of the latissimus and pectoralis, are implanted into opposite sides of the groove, in the os humeri, the space between them there, being half an inch, but from their divarication, it soon becomes wider. In this space, are lodged the biceps, coraco-brachieus nerves, and vessels. These muscles, with the bone, bound the axilla outwardly. On the inner or thoracic side, it is fenced by the ribs, covered with the serratus. Outwardly and backward, we have the scap- ula, lined with the subscapularis. If we proceed to the back282 part of the scapula, we shall find the axilla shut up, there, by the serratus, which is implanted into the base of the bone, and from that, forward to the tract of the vessels and nerves, is connected to the subscapularis, by loose cellular substance, or, to speak more correctly, the fasciae covering these muscles, are thus connected. To proceed to the upper part, we find, on cutting the trapezius, that the fascia beneath it, passes under the omo-hyoideus, to the inside of the clavicle, where it is implanted. But a still deeper layer, covering the deep muscles, nerves, &c., extends from the scalenus posticus, to the clavicle, to the levator scapulae, and the upper costa of the scapula itself, and supra-spinatus. This union is so intimate, that, at first, the levator seems to go to the rib, as well as to the scapula. Farther forward, a continuation of the layer, goes from the scalenus anticus to the clavicle, and also from the artery and nerves. Looking, then, from the neck, nothing can, without rupturing this fascia, get to the axilla. But were this the only defence, we might, from the axilla, raise up this, and get on the neck. The serratus is not only inserted into the base of the scapula, but its upper head is implanted, for at least half an inch, along the superior costa. From thence forward, the fascia, lining the serratus, is reflected on the inner surface of the subclavius muscle, thus shutting up, there, the axilla within. But it may be better to change the view, and trace, what may be called, the axillary fascia. First, then, the arm- pit, beneath the skin, is covered, or shut up, by a firm fascia, which descends along the arm, extends on the pectoralis ma- jor, thelatissimus dorsi, origin of the teres major and serratus, so, as every-where, to be continuous with that exterior fascia, which, more or less distinctly, covers the w'hole body. The shape of the armpit is triangular, the base being turned to the side or thorax. The distance between the folds of the axilla, is more than an inch and a half, and the cup, usually, is about an inch deep from the fold. An inner layer of this fascia mounts up, within the axilla, and lines it, whilst a thin sheet also is sent off, up between the pectoralis major and minor, all the way to the clavicle. But this, often, is indistinct and cellular. To attend to the lining of the cavity: the283 simplest idea tliat can be given, is to say, that from the ser- ratus, on the thoracic side, we trace a lining, more or less firm and distinct, up to the top of the axillary cavity at the clavi- cle, and thence reflected down on the subscapularis, pector- ales, and muscles at the humerus. But this would, if quite correct, prevent the vessels and nerves from entering. I must, therefore, in so far, modify it, as to explain, that where these pass below the clavicle, the fiiscia is not complete, but turns down with them, and over them, so as to form a general sheath, besides prolongations, with the particular branches, more or_^less distinct. These still, it is to be observed, shut up the axilla, but if we tear or cut the reflection, at the ves- sels, then, we can, along these, convey within this sheath, the finger up into the neck. Probably, on dissecting the parts, it may appear, that no fascia intervenes between the vessels and thorax, the connexion being altogether cellular. But more attentive examination, will show that the cellular sub- stance is between the fascia of the serratus, and a thin cover- ing over the vessels, &c. In this cellular tissue, which is loose and extensible, we have glands, branches of nerves, and vascular branches, and it also is evident, that in opening the axilla, we shall, easily, separate the great cord of vessels and nerves, from the thorax and serratus; but, being firmly con- nected to the subscapularis, and muscles at the head of the humerus, we cannot, without cutting the stronger investing fascia there, and doing violence to the whole structure, sep- arate them in that direction. Lastly, we recollect, that the ex- ternal fascia of the armpit, goes down along the arm, and there- fore, the vessels and nerves, pass down beneath it, as in a sheath, without piercing any part. We may reverse the mat- ter, and trace the deep fascia, up fi’om the coraco-brachieus, and other muscles of the arm, over the tendon and body of the subscapularis, between these and the vessels, up to the clavicle, and then down, to be identified with, or lost in the fascia of the serratus and pectoralis minor, and along the tract of the vessels, forming a kind of sheath for them. Now, this IS not useless minuteness; for, it explains how, in a puncture of the axillary artery, the blood must be confined within the284 axilla. If we, after introducing a sharp instrument into the artery, from above the clavicle, and cutting it in the axilla, inject wax, we fill the axilla, pushing aside the oozy cellu- lar substance, and make, as it were, a mould of the boundaries of the fascia, but no force we can employ, ever makes the wax pass up into the neck, or do more below, than extend a lit- tle way, and raise the hollow of the armpit, so as to make it protuberant. The whole mass of wax is not equal to the size of the fist, though doubtless, in an aneurism, the gradual distension may make the parts yield more. Further, a px’actical deduc- tion, not to be disputed, is, that in no case of false aneurism, dare we attempt to expose the artery below the clavicle, for, then, we surely open the sac: and even in the operation above the clavicle, we must be careful not to go lower than is abso- lutely necessary, a rule to be observed even in true aneui'ism. We have seen that a layer of fascia, extends over the pec- toralis minor and subclavius, and the intervening space. Un- der this fascia, the thoracica superior and humeraria, arising separately, or by a common trunk, are seen, with their corre- sponding veins, whilst the cephalic, in its course to the sub- clavian vein, crosses the artery, and skirts the margin of the subclavius. Under the fascia, a nerve, arising usually from the median, also is seen. It sends its ramifications over the surface of the pectoralis minor. The main artery, then, in its way to the arm, must traverse this space. It goes down from the clavicle, and meets the vein, at about a quarter of an inch out from the line of the scalenus. The vein runs outward, and a little downw^ard, the artery, more downward and less outward, so that they soon meet at an angle. In the space between the two muscles alluded to, the vein, whilst it is obliquely to the inside of the artery, also overlaps it more or less, so as, in some cases, to cover or hide it altogether. Where it does not cover the artery, smaller veins generally do. These are the superior thoracic veins and the cephalic. The nerves lie obliquely to the upper, and outer, side of the artery, sometimes overlapping its margin, and partly behind, so that it runs, here, in a kind of nervous channel. This is formed with some little variation, in different cases, but, usually,QS5 there is on the outer margin, and outside of the face, of the artery, the anterior, or outer, head of the median, connected, at its outer margin, with the external cutaneous. These, and perhaps a little of the outer margin of the artery, cover the spiral nerve, which, with those before it, hide or have behind them, the circumflex, and often the infra-scapulary nerve, or the circumflex runs along its outside. Then, the back part of the artery, rests more directly on the ulnar, in- ternal cutaneous, and inner head of the median, which comes out a little lower, between the artery and vein. We have, also coming out, generally from behind the artery, between it and the vein, in the space above the pectoralis minor, along with thearteria thoracica superior, a branch, or two branches, from the median nerve, which immediately split and ramify on the pectoralis minor, and into the major, and also outward on the subclavius. Twigs also go, within the axillary fascia, to the armpit, and with the mammaria externa. This is the thoracicus anterior, so named, to distinguish it from a larger nerve, that comes out in the neck, between the scalenus me- dius, and posticus, and descends on the outer margin of the former, over the transversalis colli artery, then behind the supra-scapulary nerve and axillary plexus, as far out as to- ward the acromion. It descends behind the great vessels, to the serratus anticus, &c., and is named the posterior or great thoracic nerve. The artery is thus almost enclosed, or cov- ered in, by the vein and nerves, and can only be fully seen by drawing these, particularly the vein, aside. The artery is sooner or later below the clavicle, according to the directness of its descent, and the size of the adult subject. Its inner margin appears at the subclavius muscle, if that be not very broad, from an inch and three quarters, to two inches, fully, from the sternal end of the bone. Its outer is two, or two and an eighth. The vein appears, with its inner mai’gin, fully an inch and a half from the articulation, and being very ob- lique, its outer, above two inches, sometimes three-eighths more, and from running more outward than the artery, it, at, and from, the margin of the subclavius, gets soon considerably on its face.286 From this view of the relation of the artery, below the cla- vicle, it is evident, that, independent of its depth, there must be a difficulty in safely exposing, and tying it, not altogether from the covering of the great vein and nerves, for these may be separated, but also from the arterial branches given off, and veinous branches entering in, between the subclavius and pec- toralis minor, to say nothing of the branches of thoracic nerves. It was at one time proposed to tie the artery here, in cases of axillary aneurism, but the anatomical objections are so strong and evident, that it is needless to describe an operation, which has not one countervailing advantage, over that above the clavicle. Farther, in true aneurism, we should thus apply the ligature, nearer the diseased portion, and in traumatic, or false aneurism, where the blood is confined in a sac form- ed by the axillary fascia, we are sure to open into that, dur- ing an operation. We never can contemplate the ligature of the artery here, unless in an extensive wound of the skin and muscles, complicated with so small an opening of the artery, as not to have proved rapidly fatal; a case rather to be ima- gined, than met with. The tract of the vessels and large nerves, from the clavicle to the joint, when the arm is at a right angle to the body, is that of a line running obliquely outward and downward, and the length of the portion of the artery, may be fully three inches and a half. When the arm is by the side, they are more arched. After passing over the rib, they, particidarly the vein, rest, first, on the upper intercostal muscle, then, on the serratus, in one direction, and on the subscapularisand ten- don of the latissimus, in another. They are much more firmly connected to these, than to the serratus. There are two views which may, with advantage, be taken of the relation of the parts; the one, from the front, the other, look- ing up the axilla. First, on removing the two pectoral muscles, but leaving the investing fascia, we see the vessels and nerves shining through this. When this is turned off, we see these more distinctly, though still covered with a sheath and cellular substance. When better cleaned, we display the parts in the following order :—Lowest, and also farthest forward, in the oh-287 lique tract of the vessels toward the joint, is the vein. At the lower margin of the subclavius muscle, it meets the artery, and gets on the lower, and inner part of its front, where it meets with the outer head of the median nerve, the two together covering the artery. At this spot, about an inch below the lower margin of the clavicle, and fully an inch and three quarters, out from its sternal end, the thoracica humeraria and superior appeal*, with the anterior thoracic nerve. Just be- low the root of the superior thoracic, we see the artery crossed, in a direction downward and outward, by a nerve, as large as a crow quill. It is an addition to the outer head of the me- dian. A vein, in a reverse direction, also crosses the artery here, whilst, just above this, it is traversed by the cephalic, which enters the subclavian at an angle. Detaching the axillary vein, so as to let it fall lower, we see the artery, bounded above, and in front, by the outer head of the me- dian nerve, with its additional portion or small head, the exter- nal cutaneous lying to the outside of the large head, and be- low, by the inner head, and internal cutaneous, coming out from between it and the vein. These heads of the median, speedily unite, and form a trunk on the face of the artery, which continues there, so that, excepting the small portion above the union of the heads, no part of the artery is seen, even when the vein is detached. The ulnar nerve, is moi*e behind the inner head of the median, and the artery. The spiral is behind all these, particularly the outer head of the median, and the outer half of the artery. Between the outer nerve, or external cutaneous, and the acromion, is an angle, filled with fatty cellular substance, in which, situated deeply, we see a long branch, generally, either directly from the spiral, or from the articularis nerve, descend- ing between the plexus and subscapularis muscle, toward the axillary fold of the latissimus dorsi, often accompanied with a large branch from the mammaria externa. Farther forward, we have the posterior thoracic nerve, going down on the serratus. It is not seen till it get lower than the tract of the axillary vessels and nerves, for it lies behind the plexus. The upper and back part of this space, which is part of the axilla, is288 crossed by the supra-scapular nerve. Coming off high, generally from the spiral nerve, we have a large nerve which runs down on the subscapularis muscle, between it and the other nerves, and is not seen till they be displaced. This divides into two, one, the infra-scapularis nerve, from which, or the common trunk, two or more branches, go into the snbscapularis muscle, whilst the continuation of the nerve runs down, and a little backward, to meet the infra-scapular artery, which it accompanies. It attaches itself to the face or up- per margin of its vein, and proceeds to the latissimus. The other, the articular nerve, runs down, nearer to the joint, passing under, or behind the infra-scapularis artery, to meetthe circumflex artery which it accompanies, going back between the subscapularis muscle and the artery, sometimes a very lit- tle nearer the angle of the scapula. Besides these nerves, there are other two, very important, in the axilla, called inter- costo-humeral. These come out from the first and second intercostal space, covered by the pectoralis minor, and the upper one, often, by the axillary vein. They, particularly the lowest, not only traverse the axilla outward, parallel to the face of the vein, and go to the fascia and skin of the axilla, and down over the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, to the triceps, but interlace with the thoracic nerve, forming a ramification which both accompanies the mammary vessels, and involves the axillary glands. In the axilla, they run about three quarters of an inch, back, from the inner surface of the pectoi'alis major. I finish this front view, by noticing the vascular branches. The arteries may be divided into those called thoracic, given off between the subclavius and the joint, and those given off at the under margin of the snbscapularis. The thoracics are usually described as four in number, the superior, the hume- raria, mammaria, and alaris. Generally, these come off either in two trunks, or, if separately, they are usually quite close. In the space between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, about an inch below the under margin of the clavicle, and from an inch to an inch and a quarter, to the inside of the coracoid process, the two first come off, either close by each289 other, or, by one short, but large vessel, from the face of the artery. The division called Superior, or Brevis, comes for- ward, between the outer head of the median nerve, and the great vein. It ramifies, extensively, between the two pectoral muscles, accompanied by branches of the anterior thoracic nerve. Both, are covered by the fascia of the pectoralis minor, which they pierce, to get also to the pectoralis major, and an inner detachment from each, will be found to ramify under the minor. A branch also runs inward, at the entrance of the cephalic vein into the subclavian, on the face of the latter, to the sternal end of the clavicle. The other divi- sion, or Humeraria, passes outward, in the course of the ce- phalic vein, between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, deep enough to be hid, ramifying into these, whilst still deeper branches, go to the outside of the joint, and supra-spinatus muscle. One, to the acromian, is named, the inferior acro- mial, to distinguish it from the superior, from the transversalis colli. These two thoracics are pretty regular; the others are not. The Thoracica Longa, or Mammaria externa, comes olF, often, about the middle of the pectoralis minor, sometimes a little higher, or almost with the superior, and may run for a little way on the face of the great artery. A large branch of this, runs within the lower margin of the pectoralis minor, then, by the under margin of the major, into the mamma. In almost every instance, a considerable branch, sometimes the largest, runs a little farther back, entering into the serratus. Where this is wanting from the longa, we may have a large branch coming off high, and immediately joining the posterior thoracic nerve, and accompanying it, in its distribution. A vein runs along the face of this artery. The mammary divi- sion, passes from the margin of the pectoralis minor, to the seiratus, just within the fold of the pectoralis major, and thence, runs, in two or more ramifications, into the breast. These are accompanied with twigs of nerves from the inter- costo-humeral, and perhaps from the anterior, but not, like the other division, from the posterior thoracic. I have also seen the subscapularis artery come off, high, from a common tiunk with it, ox’, whilst the large serratus branch, came off*high in the axilla, the proper mammary branch, arose from the brachial artery, and ran inward, across the fascia of the armpit to the breast; indeed, even when the mammaria is large and regular, this other branch so frequently exists in both sexes, that it may be admitted into our arrangement, under the name of the Thoracica Brachialis. Or, from the infra-scapular, originating high, there has been given off a branch, crossing the axila, to the serratus and thorax, down under the pectoralis major. Or, from the longa, a branch has turned up between the two pectoral muscles. From the longa, or inner division of the supi-ema, rami- fications are sent into the cellular substance, and around the glands in the axilla; but, in other instances, there is given off, pretty high, a distinct, but not large branch, particularly for this purpose, called the Thoracica Alaris. When the alaris arises separately, it is not confined to the glands, &c., but also goes inward to the seiTatus, sometimes principally to it. There is, then, it appears, great irregularity in the origin, and distribution, of the lower thoracic arteides. The branches given off, at the under margin of the sub- scapularis, are the infra-scapularis, and the anterior, and posterior circumflex arteries. The Infra-scapular artery, usually, arises from the axillary, just, at the margin of the subscapularis muscle. If we draw the nerves toward the angle of the scapula, leaving the great artery in situ, we see the origin of this vessel. It comes off, deep, behind the vein and the nerves, and is covered by its corresponding vein, and both, by a firm cellular coat or fascia, so that in dissecting into the axilla, that vein is first seen, and the artery, which it hides, is felt pulsating below it. The infi'a-scapulary nerve runs rather higher. All the nerves run down over, or on the face of the infra-scapular artery, except the articular, or circumflex, which is crossed by it. In some instances, this artery rises higher, and therefore will run, more obliquely, to the margin of the subscapularis, at the triceps. It runs along the margin of the subscapularis, between it and the teres major, to the posterior margin of the triceps,291 fully, three quarters of an inch back, from the axillary vein, and, there, divides into two branches. The smallest, continues its course along the mai’gin of the muscle, covered by its vein, to near the inferior angle of the scapula, giving branches to the subscapularis, and inside of the latissimus dorsi, and, off, to the serratus magnus, and side of the thorax, behind a division of the thoracica mammaria. It, or the posterior branch, sends a ramus upward, on the inside of the subscapu- laris, in the tract of the infra-scapular nerve, only, in a reversed course. The posterior branch, or rather the great trunk of the infra-scapular artery, winds back, over the margin of the teres minor, running along the boundary of that muscle, and the infra-spinatus. It passes back, in a space, bounded above, by the teres minor, below, by the teres major, and be- fore, by the long head of the triceps, and ramifies, extensively on the dorsum of the scapula, both above and below the spine, and close on the bone, as well as in the substance of the muscles. The branch which ramifies on the dorsum of the bone, often winds to it, not between the teretes, but be- tween the teres minor and the bone. The infra-scapular, anas- tomoses freely with the supra-scapular artery. The Circumflex artery, is often as large as the infra-scapular, and comes off from the axillary, nearly opposite to the infra- scapular; and, just to the inside of, or behind, the axillary artei'y, it plunges, almost, directly backward, between the teretes. It therefore resembles the infra-scapular in this respect, but it differs in passing at the anterior, whilst the infra-scapu- lar passes at the posterior margin, of the head of the triceps, which is therefore between them. If we separate the attach- ment of the axillary artery to the coraco-brachialis, and draw it toward the angle of the scapula, we see this branch, rising from its outer, or rather posterior margin. It passes in a space, bounded, above, by the teres minor, below, by the teres major, before, by the humerus, behind, by the anterior margin of the long head of the triceps. The circumflex nerve accompanies it, but lies nearer the angle, covered by all the other nerves, and they are both connected by a firm cellu- lar expansion. The vein lies on the face of the artery, or292 sometimes on tliat of the nerve. The artery winds back, a lit- tle below the neck of the humerus, and under the deltoid, in which it lamifies, and also sends twigs to the capsule, and the muscles implanted round the head of the hone. It anasto- moses with branches of the infra-scapularis, and thoracica humeraria. The anterior circumflex, goes round by the front of the bone. It is, generally, a branch of the posterior, or great cir- cumflex, sent off between the teretes, but it may also arise from the axillary. It goes close by the neck of the bone, under the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps, and, also, under the tendon of the long head, by the side of which, it sends a branch up to the capsule. The connexion of these branches, with the ramifications of the transversalis colli, and transversalis humeri, is important to the continuation of the circulation, after tying the subcla- vian artery. The retrograde course also of the blood, by the thoracica humeraria, when that remains pervious, whereby it may enter into the sac, may also be understood. The course is less direct from the other thoracics. In this front view, then, of the axilla, we see, that from the portion of the artery, which is between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, and which is included between the heads of the median nerve, no spot is bare or uncovered by nerves. Even, that portion, is often traversed by a small head of the median. But there are varieties often met with, which, if trusted to, would invalidate this description. For, we fre- quently have only two heads of the median nerve, and, thus, have more of the upper part of the artery bare. Farther, these two heads meet, sooner or later, in different cases, and their junction is formed more in front, in one case, and more to the inside of the artery, in another. Neither do the heads always unite, when they meet, but are often, even down to the top of the arm, connected, only, by cellular substance, sometimes so loose, as to allow a narrov/ line, of the face of the artery, to be seen between them, when they are cleaned; and this line, may go to the joint, so, that if there be three heads to the nerve, we see, first, above the small head, when293 it crosses the artery, a portion of the vessel bare, and then below it, a slip, longer or shorter, of the vessel. The student, however, must recollect, that, after, in his dissection, he has removed the fascial and cellular covering, parts recede, which were formerly kept together; and the surgeon must remem- ber, that it is a more delicate matter to expose the artery, in the living subject, between the nerves, than to clean and sepai-ate the parts, when the artery is injected. But, unless the axilla were extensively opened, by a casual wound, no one, I think, could be warranted in making such an incision, as should expose the front of the artery and nerves. I there- fore proceed to the second view of the axilla, that ob- tained, by looking upward, between its folds. On turning off the skin, and opening the fascia, covering the armpit, we see cellular substance, sometimes crossed by a slip of muscle (extending from the fleshy part of the latissi- mus dorsi, to the tendon of the pectoralis) and many glands. Drawing these down, and cautiously detaching them, we see, passing through them, from the thorax, to the top of the arm, the intercostal nerves. Cutting, or insulating these, we can, with little dissection, remove, en masse, the glands and cellular substance. In doing this, in the ordinary state, only little ramifications, of the vessels will be divided, the larger branches running more in contact with the different muscles, forming the boundaries of the axilla. Yet, in some instances, larger rami, particularly from the thoracica longa, will be divided, and this is especially the case, when we go high. Ihere, if we cut, instead of carefully detaching, by pulling and using a blunt instrument, the main trunk of the longa, or some other irregular, but large branch, must be'divided. This is still more likely to happen, if the arm be much raised, for then the arteries are put on the stretch, and more remov- ed from the parietes. By separating the glands, partly, by the knife, but rather, after freely dividing the fascia, by the finger, or handle of the scalpel, from the thorax, on the one hand, and the great vein, on the other, as well as from the anterior and posterior parietes, we can often tear them away from the roof of the cavity, without much difficulty, or dividing294 any large branch. In this process, we may perhaps see the intercostal nerves insulated, in which case, if they be firmly involved in the glands, we should snip them across. To avoid the risk of dividing any thoracic branch high, where it would be difficult to tie it, we have been advised, after insulating the glands, to apply a ligature, around the upper part, or neck, of the mass, before cutting that across. This, doubtless, will, in so far, prevent haemorrhage; but it is not easy to apply the ligature, with certainty, beyond the diseased chain, and if we afterwards discover, and endeavour to pull away, a diseased gland, we are apt to remove the liga- ture. Farther, as the knot makes the part tied, somewhat tumid, and hard to the feel, we are not so sure, that no small diseased gland may not be left. Cleaning the cavity, and looking up, the arm being raised at a right angle to the body, the first, and most prominent object, is the great axillary vein, which is a continuation of the basilic, enlarged by tributary branches. Besides the cir- cumflex and infra-scapular and thoracic veins, we have the deep venae comites, of the brachial artery, entering. The largest of these, enters, at an uncertain distance above the margin of the subscapularis muscle, sometimes near it, some- times an inch and a quarter, or more, above it. The large basilic, lies farthest back, or most inward. • The smaller, or comes, lies more forward or outward, between the coraco- brachialis and the nerves, and the two meet at an angle, the space intervening between them, before their union, being variable. Beyond this, is the coraco-brachialis. In every point, the veins are the most prominent objects in the cleaned cavity. The upper margin of the tendon, and sheet, of the latissimus dorsi, when dissected, turns a little forward and downward, so, as to make the posterior fold of the axilla, still more oblique, or perhaps appear like a part of the cavity; and at the top of this margin, between it and the subscapularis, we see the infra-scapular vein entering into the basilic or axillary. It either hides its artery, lying on its face, or, some- times, is a little higher. The nerve is generally highest, lying either on the upper margin of the vein, or a little295 above it. Removing the axillary vein, we see the nerves, which vary, slightly, in their relative position, but generally cover completely the artery, or hide it all the way up. We see the internal cutaneous, covering the ulnar; to the outside of these, we see the median. In axillary aneurism, the nerves are either separated, and spread over, and around the sac, or it protrudes more between them, pushing them aside. In neither case, is there, necessarily, decided weakness, or pain, in the arm. These effects are most likely to take place, when the tumour is so large as to make much pressure. This view, gives us little encouragement to dissect deep, in the axilla, in order to tie the axillary artery. The parts are so connected, and so important, that no one dare use the knife high, and even near the under margin of the subscapu- laris muscle, we can only think of insulating the artery, when the axilla is, already, by the accident, extensively opened. In“the extirpation of glands, the axillary artery cannot be wounded, without the most unaccountable rashness, for the vein defends it, and must first be injured. That may hap- pen, from using the knife too near the outer part of the cavity, and, in like manner, the infra-scapulary vein may be cut, by heedlessly going too near the margin, and surface, of the subscapularis muscle. I, next, attend to that portion of the artery, which traverses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Looking, outward, toward the bone, we see, first, the great vein, which is interposed be- tween the eye and the nerves, or, a part of the median nerve may be seen in front, the rest hid. Beyond this, is the coraco-brachialis. Drawing the vein backward, and down- ward, along the face of the tendon, we see the cord of nerves, generally, in the following order:—First, we see most inter- nal, or farthest back, the internal cutaneous and median. 1 he former lies on the ulnar, and hides it, till the parts be cleaned, and a little separated. It also lies partly on the median. Raising it, we see, first, the ulnar, then the median. The spiral is close on the tendon, sometimes hiding the ulnar, oftener, hid by the ulnar as well as by the artery. The external cutaneous is not seen, as it lies on the other side.There is, however, some variety in the relation of these parts. We may see, first, or most backward, the ulnar nerve, then, the internal cutaneous, both lying on, and nearly hiding, the great vein. Tlien, more outward, the median, on the artery; then, drawing the arteiy back on the tendon, we see, between it and the coraco-brachialis, a vena comes; the external cutaneous nerve, has, by this time, got into the muscle. In other cases, we see, first in order, the ulnar, then, farther forward, the vein, then, the internal cutaneous, whilst the median is not seen, till we pull down, or back, the internal cutaneous; or, we see, first, the vein with the internal cutaneous nerve on its face. Lifting up the vein, we see between it and the tendon, the cutaneous minor; the ulnar, covering the spiral, is seen on drawing the vein downward. Higher, or more forward, is the artery, and still more forward the median nerve. The portion of artery here, is more accessible, than any which is higher, though it be quite hid or covered. It is, except in extensive wounds, the highest spot which we ought ever to think of tying, the operation above the clavicle, being, in all other cases, preferable. To expose the artery here, the arm must be raised, and an incision made from the middle, or hollow, of the axilla, down, between its folds, for a little way, along the inside of the top of the ai-m. The cellular substance, over the vessels, being completely divided, we see the vein covered, as all the other parts are, by a layer of fascia. This being slit, so as to expose the vein, that is to be drawn downward, or backward, along the tendon. We then must examine the relation of the nerves to the artery, and proceed accordingly. In many cases, we expose it best, by drawing downward, or backward, the vein and ulnar nerve, and, the median and in- ternal cutaneous forward. The spiral does not require to be touched, lying behind the artery, or covei’ed by it. In others, we may expose it, by drawing all the nerves forward, whilst the vein is kept back. Or, we draw back, the spiral and ulnar, and the rest forward. Or, we, on inspecting the relation of parts, find it necessary to draw the brachial or axillary vein, internal cutaneous, ulnar, and spiral nerves, back, and the297 median, and a deep vena comes, forward or outward, close by the coraco-bx'achialis. Or, drawing down, or back, the vein, internal cutaneous, ulnar, and spiral, and pressing up or for- ward, the median, we expose the artery, often, so intimately connected with the vein, as to require great caution in the separation. The deep comes, is partly behind the artery, and requires caution, and, in many cases, the profunda is given off high, by the axillary artery, and, along with its spiral branch, which accompanies the spiral nerve, runs down behind it. We must also remember that the arterial branch, I have named thoracica brachialis, comes off near the upper margin of the tendon, and may be cut. By attending to the description I have given of the tract and relative position of the vessels and nerves, w^e may form a pretty correct judgment, respecting the parts which shall be injured, by stabs, or other wounds, at any given point below the clavicle. Before proceeding to the shoulder joint and arm, it wdll be proper to notice the Mamma, the connexions of which may be better understood now than earlier. The Breast, is enclosed between two layers of fascia. The deep axillary fascia, from under the pectoral muscles, extends under the breast, adhering firmly to it, and separat- ing it from the fibres of the pectoralis major, to which it is connected by thin cellular substance, never containing fat. The superficial fascia of the axilla, can be traced on the surface of the gland, but it is less distinct. It can be followed up along the nipple. From the corium, there descend numerous thin cellular septa, to the exterior fascia, and which are filled with more or less fat in different cases. The surface of the ffland O is not smooth, but somewhat irregular, small sulci or pits, be- ing filled with fat, which, when picked out, exhibits the hol- lows. Sometimes, especially during lactation, small packets of fat, are found intermixed in the substance of the gland. The appearance, as well as the size of the gland, varies at different ages, and under different circumstances. In child- hood, it is little larger than a sixpence, thin, and apparently homogeneous. In adult virgins, it is also usually homogeneous,^298 resembling a cake of thick firm whitish substance, in which, when cut, we see divided ducts, but scarcely, even with a glass, any appearance of acini. In old age, we have little but the two sheets of fascia, enclosing between them, a layer of dense, cellular looking substance, in which, we see numerous ducts, probably large, of a knotted appearance, running in a radiated direction, from the nipple to the circumference. It is in those who have lately nursed, but, still better, in those who are nursing, that we distinctly see the structure of the breast. In them, especially the latter, we, on making a section of the breast, find it to have an agglomerated appearance, like a multitude of millet seeds, the colour, sometimes reddish, but usually white, and rising from these, we observe many ducts. If we inject these ducts from the nipple, we findi that there may be twelve or fifteen, each ramifying and subdivid- ing, till the small branches end in acini, resembling curls of the duct. If we reverse the matter, and trace the branches from the acini, we see them uniting irregularly, so as to form a mesh-work, like the frame of a rustic chair, and the duct, at last, formed by their union near the nipple, sometimes dilates into what is called a sinus. Each duct, if injected, only fills a certain number of acini all the way to the circumfer- ence, and these compartments, belonging to the individual ducts, have been called lobes; but unless we inject the ducts with different colours, we can see no distinct boundary be- tween the lobes. Vei’y fine blood-vessels are seen in the sub- stance of the breast. The gland, not secreting, may be from four to five inches in diameter. During lactation, it ex- tends, and I'eaches, perhaps, within an inch and a half of the clavicle, and half an inch of the sternum, whilst part winds under the fold of the pectoi’al muscle, and sometimes reaches even to the axilla. Hence, in many cases, before the secretion be free,, there is painful hardness toward the axilla. Even when not nursing, and the breasts small, part usually winds under, or behind, the fold of the muscle at the ribs, a circum- stance to be attended to, in the operation for cancer. Lym- phatic glands can be traced from the margin of the breast, or lower part of the axilla, both close by the side and fold of the299 pectoral muscle, and also more in the proper cavity of the axilla, all the way to the clavicle, following, nearly the tract of the vein, and, near the clavicle, lying on its face, so that if we require to extirpate them, from a high situation, much care would be required in tearing, or detaching them, from the vein, lest that be injured. There are no lymphatic glands discernible in, or on, the substance of the breast. Small moveable tumours, are, more probably, indurated portions of the mamma, or new for- mations, in the cellular substance, than glands. At the fold of the pectoral muscle, an induration, may either be a part of the breast, which reaches there, or one of the lowest glands. The breast is supplied with blood, from the thoracica superior, intercostals, and mammaria interna, the minute branches of which, come out of the pectoralis major, and pierce the fascia. But, the principal supply is from the axilla, by the mammaria externa, which we have seen enters the breast, by different divisions, some, close by the inside of the pectoral fold, others, lower on the side. The injected artery is found to ramify, chiefly, in the cellular substance of the breast, pierce its external fascia, and run over it, under the skin. The veins form areolae on the surface, and also arise from the deeper cellular tissue, and run toward the axilla, where they form either one or two large branches, accompanying the mammary artery. The largest vein often comes from the lower margin of the breast. The nerves of the upper part of the surface, are continuations of the supra-clavicular. Deeper twigs, come from the anterior and posterior thoracic nerves, through the muscles. One or more long slender branches, accompany the vessels, from the upper part of the axillary nerves, but the most distinct are the intercostal branches, which come out between the ribs, in the axilla, forming what are called the intercosto-humeral nerves. All of these are sub- ject to neuralgia, sometimes dependent on the state of the spinal cord, sometimes, on the condition of enlarged glands in the axilla, sometimes, on that of the nervous extremities themselves, either without visible change, or connected with small tumours. The connexion of the breast witli the sympa- thetic nerve, seems to be only by filaments, sent from the300 cervical ganglion, to the axillary nerves, ami from the thoracic ganglion, to the intercostal nerves. From this account of the breast, we can readily see, that there are two ways, in which disease maybe propagated, inde- pendently of nervous influence, which is not to be disregard- ed. For, although a diseased texture be wholly removed, yet, the nerves going to it may be so affected, that their cut ex- tremities, shall resume, or rather carry on, the morbid action, and thus cause what is called a relapse; against this risk, I fear there is no security. But disease may also be propagated, by the absorption of matter, acting on the glands, which, if not removed, are sure to run the course the original tumour should have done. The state of the fascia, is another cause of relapse. The layer, on the outer surface, after a time, be- comes diseased, and, next, the skin over it, which, as is well known, may either at last be destroyed, and form an open sore, or, it may become studded over with cancerous tuber- cles. We ought, therefore, in extirpating the breast, to be careful to leave no part of this fascia, connected to the integu- ments, and must remember, that as it can be traced far be- yond the boundaries of the gland, we must go, in our dissec- tion, to a little distance from its margin, and also must leave no part adhering to the skin. Toward the axilla, more espe- cially if we have to remove glands, we should not be sparing of the fascia, but clean it from the sen'atus, and inner margin of the pectoralis. We cannot follow it far up, however. It is not unusual for the fascia, at the upper part of the arm, and on the face of the axilla, to inflame in relapses, and this is occasionally productive of erysipelas. The under layer is also liable to participate, and this is still moi’e con- nected with the deep axillary fascia. As it adheres firmly to the mammary gland, it is necessary to remove it entirely, so as to leave the pectoral muscle bare, and this is to be done without cutting the fibres, which always produces a trouble- some oozing of blood from the muscle. If this be attended to, we have seldom above one or two vessels to secure, on the face of the muscle, coming out through its substance. The most numerous, are in the cellular substance of the flajis, and301 the largest, are toward the axilla, particularly, within the fold of the pectoral muscle. This should, therefore, be either the first, or the last, part to be divided, after dissecting off the skin. It is generally better to let it be the last. We, after making an elliptical incision, (one end of which, if the state of the integuments permit, is toward the axilla,) includ- ing the nipple, and every suspicious spot of skin, turn off the skin, to some way, beyond the margin of the gland. If any arteries spring, in this stage, as usually happens, the assistant either stops the bleeding with his finger, or the operator may stop and take them up. The breast being quite exposed, is to be detached from above, downward, and within, outward, to the axilla, at the fold of the pectoral mus- cle, where, if there be no disease in the armpit, the sound fascia and cellular substance, &c., are to be cut across and the vessels tied. A recumbent position is the best for the patient. Leaving other particulars to writers on the operation, I only remark, that even where there is only a portion of the breast diseased, and that portion apparently sound, it is best to remove the whole gland. The tumour may, indeed, not be one of the gland, but formed in the adjacent cellular sub- stance, and could it be certainly known that it were so, in any particular case, the mere removal of that would be war- rantable. But, usually, however moveable the tumour is, it is found, in operating, to be a part of the gland, and cannot be removed, without cutting into the adjacent glandular substance. This rarely succeeds, for the disease generally returns. It is little less painful than removing the whole, and what is left is useless. But this rule, evidently, does not apply to subcutaneous tumours. The structure of the breast, will farther point out the dif- ferent kinds of abscess. We may have subcutaneous abscess, in one of the large cells, between the corium and mammary fascia. We may have abscess forming near the nipple, round one of the sinuses; or deeper, and, more externally, along and around some of the ducts, in the cellular substance, connect- ing the acini; or the glandular substance itself, ducts and acini, and their intermedium may be inflamed, and, perhaps.1 30^2 during suppuration, a part of the gland may die, and be thrown out as a slough. More rarely, abscess forms under the gland, between it and the pectoral muscle. It is not un- usual, for two or more lobes to suppurate, in succession, and sometimes, particularly in strumous habits, sinuses run in more directions than one, to a little abscess found in an indu- rated portion of gland. We try, first, the effect of enlarging the most dependent aperture, if the disease be tedious. It is rarely necessary to make extensive incisions, far less to fol- low all the sinuses, and cut up the breast in different direc- tions. The glenoid cavity, is an oval, an inch and three-eighths, by one inch. It is narrowest near the origin of the biceps ten- don, and the cartilaginous rim is thickest at the inner or lower part. The head of the bone, is also somewhat oval, an inch ^ and seven-eighths, by fully one and five-eighths, but a thread I traversing the whole convexity of the diameter, will measure i fully three inches. When the arm is close by the side, there j is a distance, of nearly an inch, between the margin of the acromion, and that of the tubercle. When it is elevated, the tubercles, particularly the great one, are brought up under the acromion, close to the glenoid margin, and more than an inch, of the articulating surface, projects beyond the glenoid cavity, on the capsule, between the teres minor and subscap- ularis. The capsule is very thin there. It is also thin be- tween the supra-spinatus and subscapularis, where it is ti'a- versed by the coraco-brachialis. At the tubercles, the capsule | does not go lower than their upper margin, but at the inner part it goes, or can be pressed down for more than a quarter of an inch below the line of the neck. The capsule not only is attached to the margin of the glenoid cartilage, but also by pretty firm fibres to the outer side of the coracoid process. If we roll the arm outward, we put these on the | stretch, and give them the appearance of a band going to both tuberosities, but especially the outer. It has been call- ed the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. This renders the coracoid process, really a part of the articulation. The strength of the capsule is increased, in many directions, by I303 the tendons of muscles. These being, in so far, coherent to the margin of the articulating surfaces, and to the capsule, act as thick bands opposing displacement. But, besides the security, from the strength and elasticity of these tendons, we have farther protection, from the muscles which act on them, and pull them tighter, whenever any effort (not instan- taneous), is made to force the barrier. The subscapularis offers resistance in one direction, whilst the supra and infra- spinati pull in another. The biceps, and coraco-brachialis, are also subsidiary. The capsule of the shoulder joint, is sufficiently slack, to permit of free motion, and considerable rotation, but the extent is not the same in every case. In some sub- jects, when quite fresh, we can, on removing the muscles, pull down the arm, so as to allow the finger to be push- ed between the head of the bone and the glenoid cavity, or can push the head half over the cavity, but complete luxation cannot take place, without extensive laceration. The extent of rotation also varies, when all the muscles are fresh and entire, from less than inch, to an inch and a half. If all the muscles be cut off, and their implantations alone left, the circumference of the head of the bone, covered by the capsule and remains of the tendons, is six inches and a half, and the extent of rotation, from an inch and a half, to two inches. A large bursa covers the anterior part of the capsule. It is attached to the margin of the coraco-acromial ligament, but rises a little higher within that, and extends down be- yond the cervix, covered by the deltoid muscle. When this swells, it raises that muscle, and a deep-seated fluctuation is perceived. The three muscles, most directly, or abruptly, connected with the head of the bone, are the two spinati and the sub- scapularis. The supra-spinatus is covered completely by the trapezius, acromion, coraco-acromial ligament and deltoid. From the root of the spine, forward, along the neck, it is separated from the infra-spinatus, by a firm fibrous septum, which, at the root of the acromion, is perforated for thetransmission of the supra-scapular artery. A small bursa, is found between its tendon, and tlie neck of the bone. In passing along this, it is connected by firm fascia to the cora- coid process, and also to the coraco-humeral ligament. The space between this muscle, the coraco-acromial, and the rhomboid ligaments, is filled with cellular substance. The former ligament is very broad, and is bound to the latter, and to the clavicle, by firm fascia which also covers the cellular substance. The infra-spinatus is covered, partly, by the del- toid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi, but part is covered, only, by aponeurosis and skin. The teres minor looks like a fasciculus of the infra-spinatus. On raising, or removing, the deltoid muscle, the arm being placed by the side, we see, if we look in the direction toward the side of the body, the head of the bone, covered by a thin, flat bursa, and the capsule. Behind this, the bone is covered by a sheet of muscular substance, ending in tendon, and covered by aponeurosis. This sheet, two inches broad, is divisible into an upper and under portion, by a slight sulcus; the former, the infra-spinatus, is partly covered, or overhung by the acromion; the latter, the teres minor, is the broadest at the bone. Looking in front, or from the inside, we see the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. More forward, we see the biceps better. A little farther down, cutting through, and turning down, the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps, we see the subscapularis going to the inner tubercle, with, frequently, a separate fasciculus, im- planted lower on the bone. The end of the muscular fibres of these two sets, namely, the subscapularis on the inside, and the infra-spinatus and teres, on the outside, are on directly opposite sides of the bone, and the space between them is above two inches. The supra-spinatus is not well seen till the acromion be sawed off, for its tendon is implanted into the top of the tubercle, nearly at a right angle to that of the teres, whilst the tendon of the infra-spinatus, is inserted more obliquely between them, at the upper and outer part of the tubercle. The tendons of all the muscles implanted into the tubercles, are said to pass through the capsule to get to the305 bone, and the margins of their insertions, to be covered by a reflection of the synovial membrane, whilst the fibrous capsule unites witli their margins on the outside. They rather are identified, in substance, at the implantation. Till then, the tendons, in their course along the capsule, are connected to it by cellular substance. The short head of the biceps, and coraco-brachialis, are ad- herent to the capsule or bursa. Both, cover the termination of the tendon of the subscapularis, and the latter, lies on the tendon of the lattissimus dorsi. The coraco-brachialis rises from the inside, whilst the biceps rises from the forepart of the process; but in some instances, they seem to have a common origin, and cannot be separated without violence, till we go an inch or two below the process: or, sometimes the union continues, till the tendinous insertion of the coraco- brachialis, in which case, we might say, the biceps had two heads, and two insertions. The origin of the first is fleshy, that of the second tendinous, and a firm aponeurosis goes off from this tendon, and the origin of the coraco-brachialis, and insertion of the pectoralis minor, down over the vessels and nerves, and the face of the coraco-brachialis, which, at the upper and broadest part, scarcely projects half an inch inward from the biceps, and as it descends, it gets gradually more covered by it, owing, partly, to becoming narrow itself, partly, to its shelving on the face of the bone, as far out as the inner margin of the long head of the biceps, and partly to that muscle becoming broader. At four inches and a half, it is quite behind or beneath the biceps. It begins to be im- planted behind the biceps, at about five inches and a half, below the process, or a little more, according to the length of the arm. 1 he long head of the biceps, is a strong tendon passing fiom the upper margin of the glenoid cavityj within the cap- sule, and out by the bicepital groove, or rather canal, for it is covered by strong fibrous substance, lost in, or continued to, the fascia on the pectoralis tendon. The synovial mem- brane being reflected over the tendon, both at its origin, and from the surface of the lower end of the canal, it may, II. X306 although within the fibrous capsule, be said, like the crucial ligaments of the knee, to be exterior to the synovial mem- brane. This is very thin and lax, at the reflection in the canal, so that the tendon may move without tearing it. The difference in the extent of tendon within the capsule, when the arm is fully raised, or close by the side, owing to the bulging of the head of the bone, is nearly three quarters of an inch. After coming out of the canal, it is connected to the tendon of the pectoralis major by fascia. Higher than this tendon, its tract is covered by the deltoid. In a large subject, it passes the head of the bone, nearly an inch behind the short head, which it, or its division of muscle, does not join, till about two inches and a half, sometimes more, below the coracoid process. The division of muscle belonging to the long, can, often, be separated from that of the short head, to near the tendon at the elbow joint. The latter is the inner- most and most superficial portion. The Deltoid muscle rises from the acromion, and whole of the spine of the scapula, a length of about five inches, and from the clavicle, for about three inches. From this extensive and angular base, the fibres convei'ge toward its insertion, on the outside of the humerus, between the biceps and triceps, and which begins about four inches below the top of the head of the bone. Its implantation is strong and tendin- ous, nearly two inches long, and about three quarters broad. The deltoid is connected by cellular substance to the bursa, as far as that extends, and then to the bone. The outer surface, is entirely fleshy, the inner, is moi'e or less tendinous from near the head of the bone, and becomes entirely so, higher than the implantation of the under margin of the pectoralis major, on which it partly lies. Its anterior margin is bounded by the pectoralis major, so far as that goes, then, it shelves under the biceps. This margin, is marked by a line drawn from the clavicle, three inches in from the acromion, to the outside of the humerus, at the insertion of the muscle, whilst the poste- rior, is in a line from the end of the spina scapulaj, to the same point, and thus we can readily estimate the action of different parts of the muscle. The back part of the muscle,307 from tlie acromion, to its mai'gin, is four inches broad : the front is less. Tracing round the shoulder, we see, first, in front, the pectoralis major, then, the deltoid overlapping in part the former, or if we go lower, we have first the biceps, then the deltoid. Looking from the back, we have the del- toid, with part of the infra-spinatus seen behind it. Lower than the latter, we see the latissimus dorsi, and between it and the deltoid, the long head of the triceps. Farther down, we have, at the fold of the axilla, the latissimus, then, the long head of the triceps, then the deltoid. Relaxing the deltoid, and turning it forward, we see, first, the long, and then, more forward, close on the bone, the second head of the triceps. Turning on the other hand, the front of the deltoid, back, we see that it has been covering part of the subclavius, and of the pectoralis minor, the coracoid pro- cess, with the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps; then, farther out, is the long head, then, the capsule and bone. The tendon of the pectoralis major slips under the deltoid. In the most common Dislocation of the humerus, into the axilla, the head of the bone passes out of the lacerated cap- sule, by the under margin of the subscapularis, or between it and its small fasciculus already noticed. The head, or neck, is bounded, above, by the subscapularis, below, by the small fasciculus, when that is not torn, and by the teres ma- jor; before, by the coraco-brachialis and biceps; behind, by the triceps, and the head, thus placed, in a kind of quadran- gle, and sometimes partly resting on the bare scapula, may be grasped, on all sides, by the contraction of these muscles. The nerves and vessels, are thrown backward or downward, on the subscapularis, the external cutaneous nerve is apt to be stretched, and so is the anterior circumflex artery. The deltoid muscle is more or less stretched, according as it pre- serves its connexion, with the upper part of the humerus. Both heads of the biceps, and the coraco-brachialis, are tightened, by passing over the bulging head of the bone, and the latter is sometimes partly torn. The tendon of the long head, sometimes, partially, starts from the groove. The subscapularis being pressed up, if not torn, must be stretched.308 riie infra, but especially the supra-spinatus are elongated, the latter sometimes torn across, or separated from its connexion with the back of the scapula. If not lacerated, it pulls the head of the bone against the glenoid margin, and fixes it there. If we roll the humerus inward in this dislocation, we may stretch a little the teres minor, and must stretch the spinati muscles, particularly the supra-spinatus, also the coraco-brachialis, and coraco-humeral ligament. Rolling the bone outward, stretches the subscapularis and teres ma- jor. In pronation, we tighten the biceps. From these pre- mises, it follows that we ought neither to roll the arm much outward nor inward, though the latter may, after suitable extension, tend to roll the head of the bone over the glenoid margin into the cavity, and that it ought to be raised, and the fore-arm semi-bent, or, if extended, it ought not to be decid- edly prone. This is different fx’om the opinion of Dr. Crampton, who found he could not reduce, till he produced pronation, and turned the whole arm inward. Dislocation forward, must be always primary, for, if the subscapulai'is be not torn across, the head of the bone goes out, by its upper, instead of its under margin, as in the common dislocation. The muscle is elevated, and curved over the head and neck of the bone. Both spinati are stretched, but the supra, less than in the dislocation down- ward. The head of the bone is placed on the cervix of the scapula, near the root of its coracoid process. The vessels and nerves are pressed a little nearer the thorax. VVe ought, first, to make extension in a direction somewhat back- ward, the arm not being quite so much elevated as in the ordinary case. Then, we roll the arm inward, to relax the subscapularis, at the same time, that we bring it forward, and press with the hand in the axilla, to aid the return of the head into the socket. The rotation, even to a slight degree inward, and the carrying forward of the arm, must stretch the spinati, but if this be not done, till the head of the bone be on a line, or nearly so, with the margin of the glenoid cavity, they will tend to draw it in. We can do no good by rolling outward, for then we tighten the subscapularis.309 In dislocation backward, the head of the bone appears between the infra-spinatus and teres minor. As the bone goes out by the under margin of the former, it is little stretched, but the teres is more so, for it is curved over the neck. The supra-spinatus is also stretched, so is the sub- scapularis. The biceps and coraco-brachialis are not mate- rially affected. The coraco-humeral ligament is tightened. Very little extension is required in reduction, which is rather accomplished by rolling the bone outward, but if the arm be much elevated, this will turn the head into the axilla, which is also, in part, to be guarded against by the hand. After reduction, the joint should be kept at vest, and perhaps a bandage would be useful, to reunite the teres and infra-spin- atus, for if this do not take place, and the capsule remain also open, the head of the bone, is apt, ever afterwards, to go out in particular motions. In Fracture of the humerus, near its head, cailled the chir- urgical neck, just below the tubercles, we find^ that if these be not detached, the subscapularis and teres minor nearly balance each other, and press the head on the socket. Both the infra and supra-spinatus, but particularly the latter, tend to roll the head, and turn tlie cervix a little outward. The teres major, latissimus, and pectoralis major, bring the end of the shaft more toward the axilla. The deltoid, not only draws up the shaft, if fairly separated from the line of the cervix, and, consequently, not resisted by any part of its fractured surface, but it also co-operates with the preceding muscles, in turning the end of the shaft toward the axilla, by drawing outward and upward, the middle of the shaft where it is implanted. The biceps, coraco-brachialis, and triceps longus, draw up the bone, the last can draw the shaft rather backwaid, the second a little inward. The practice is evi- dent; the shaft being drawn downward, is to be pressed out- ward, and prevented, by a pad in the axilla, from coming again inward. The elbow is not to be pressed up, or more supported, than is necessary to prevent the uneasy feeling of dragging. If the fracture be smooth, the upper surface may be directed obliquely outward, and, in this view, we310 should expect the under surface, or that of tlie shaft, to be more directly applied, if the elbow were kept a little from the side. But if this be done, we must take care that the end of the shaft, be not, thereby, directed inward to the axilla. In Amputation at the joint, by the double flap, anterior and posterior, these meet, or commence, at the point of the acro- mion, unless a part of that process is to be sawed off, in which case, they begin farther back, on its top or surface. The more superficial parts divided, are, before, the pectoralis major, and anterior and upper part, of the deltoid; behind, the latissi- mus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps, with the posterior and upper part of the deltoid. Deeper, the anterior incision, comprehends, before, the coraco-brachialis, and biceps; behind, the subscapularis, teres minor, and spinati muscles. The more superficial vessels divided, are the cephalic vein, thoracica humeraria, and branches of the supra- scapularis; the deeper, are the two circumflex arteries, the anterior comparatively small, and generally higher on the bone. If we cut from within, outward, we begin the disarticula- tion of the bone, by raising tbe arm a little, and rolling it outward, to stretch the tendon of the subscapularis, which we divide, without opening the artery or veins which are farther back. Then, bringing the arm pretty close by the side, we continue the sweep outward, introducing the knife a little under the acromion, and coraco-acromial ligament, and imme- diately turning its edge perpendicularly, or, we at once place it so, close by the process, and margin of the ligament, toward the head of the bone, on which we firmly cut, dividing, first, the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, then, the long head, and next the supra-spinatus. Rolling and turn- ing the arm a little inward, we, on the back part, divide the infra-spinatus and teres minor, and corresponding part of the capsule; we now draw the bone a little downward, keeping it also inward, and immediately introduce the knife, between the glenoid cavity and head of the bone, and divide the ves- sels, nerves, and any other parts ■which may not have been com- pletely cut. We may modify these steps, in so far, as to be-311 gin at the top, dividing the capsule, then, the subscapularis, by sinking the blade, and, lastly, the outer muscles, by sink- ing the handle. Or, having divided the subscapularis and upper part of the capsule, the knife may be introduced be- tween the head of the bone, at the inside, and the margin of the glenoid cavity, and every thing which remains, cut, by carrying it outward. The arm being removed, the mouth of the axillary artery is seen, in a line down from the acro- mion to the side, with the nerves and veins nearer the angle of the scapula. The posterior circumflex is found near the margin of the glenoid cavity. The infra-scapularis is not touched. The axillary artery is divided some way below the origin of both of these branches. The great vein and nerves, are nearer the side, or thorax, than the artery. In describ- ing the muscles divided, I do not mean to say that we are to do so slowly, and, seriatim, in an undeviating order, for we do not employ much time. But he who knows best, the bands or tendons which bind the joint, and the situation of the muscles, will be most expert in his operation. It has been proposed to do the whole by transfixing the parts, or otherwise making, at once, two deep flaps, but this is impossi- ble, for we cannot, by any dexterity, divide all, that is to be divided, by two strokes. From the posterior fold of the axilla, downward, to the elbow, the back part of the arm is formed by the triceps. The long head, comes out behind, or, to the outside of the latissimus, and teres major, between this last and the teres minor. To all of these it adheres by cellular substance, and also, by similar substance, to the upper part of the bone, to no part of which is it firmly attached; and lower than the meeting with the brevis, that head, is interposed between it and the bone. The second head, rises little more than half an inch below the neck of the bone, and continues its origin by strong tendinous strips for fully three inches. It appears from between the longus and deltoid, at from two and a half, to three inches, above the end of the insertion of the latter. It immediately joins the longus, but does not unite with it, till four inches below the neck. It forms the outer portion, or half312 of the belly of the muscle. Both heads, at first, are interposed between the deltoid muscle and the teres major. The secun- dus, may also be partly seen, from the inside of the arm, by turning back, there, the longus. It is more or less obliquely covered by the longus, till the point of their union or iden- tification. The third head or brevis, rises from the shaft of the bone at the inside of the bicepital groove, just below the insertion of the latissimus dorsi. It passes down between the longus, and also the secundus, and the bone, connected to the first by cellular substance, till near six inches below the neck of the bone, when the two are identified, the union com- mencing by tendinous substance. It unites with the secun- dus, a little higher. In some cases, there is only a cellular connexion with the other heads, till near the elbow joint. It forms, in its whole course, the deep layer of flesh on the back of the bone. The longus hides it almost entirely, as far out on the inner part of the arm, as the great vessels and nerves. Even when these are removed, only a narrow portion of the brevis is seen toward the biceps. Nearer the elbow joint, only part of the brachieus is seen between the margin of the triceps and biceps. When we remove the strong fascia of the arm, which covers the triceps, we see the back of the arm fleshy, with tendinous fibres on its surface, at the upper and inner part. When we descend to about four inches above the olecranon, we observe the broad tendon of the triceps appearing. At two inches above its insertion, it is about an inch and a quarter broad, flanked on the inside by a continuation of the muscular fibres of the longus, forming a band nearly an inch and a half broad, which goes down to the olecranon, along its side, and is also connected by aponeurosis to the back of the inner condyle, reaching to the origin of the flexor ulnaris. On the outside, the tendon is flanked by a strip, from the secun- dus, of muscular substance, a quarter of an inch broad, con- nected also with the olecranon and outer condyle, and marching with the anconeus. All these parts are covered by firm aponeurosis. The tendon of the triceps begins about half way up the arm, both from the longus and secundus, but i313 deepest and tliickest from the first. It becomes superficial at the part already mentioned, and from this downward, covers the muscle. It is inserted into the upper and back part of the olecranon, along the whole breadth of the bone, and also extends over its posterior surface, and along its sides. The muscular fibres of the brevis, continue connected with the capsule behind, or may be said to rise from it. It ends at the olecranon, in a thin tendon resembling an inner layer of the other one, and is implanted just before or along with it; but the two, can generally, without violence, be separated. The inside of the arm is formed, behind, by the triceps lon- gus, aided by the brevis; by the side or margin of the biceps, before, and, between these, by the coraco-brachialis and brachieus, with the vessels and nerves on them, between the triceps and biceps. At the condyle the origin of the prona- tor, is interposed between the triceps brevis, and brachieus, but more in front than at the side. The margin of the bre- vis, at its connexion with the longus, is also bounded, for at least three inches above the condyle, by a firm fibrous strip, which is inserted into the condyle, and also is identified with, or lost in, the general deep aponeurosis of the muscles of the arm. From its edge, a thin layer of fascia dips down between the triceps brevis, and brachieus. This is the internal inter- muscular ligament. It is implanted not only into the end of the condyle, but also into all its upper ridge or margin, and identified with the superficial fascia, and also with the deep aponeurosis, which extends over the brachieus, and down the fore-arm, so as to form, there, a kind of an oblique boundary, more or less distinct, and capable of interrupting the exten- sion of pus, &c., in that direction. Ihe outer part, of the shoulder and arm, is formed by the deltoid, then, when that ends, by the margin of the brachialis internus, and supinator, which bound that of the triceps secundus here. From the insertion of the deltoid, till it meet the supinator, the margin of the triceps is in contact with that of the brachieus, which rises where the deltoid ends, and its thick outer margin descends much in the line of the deltoid insertion. A fibrous naiTow band, called the outer intermus-314 cular ligament, extends from the insertion of the deltoid muscle, to the outer condyle, along the margin of the triceps, and a thin layer dips between it and the supinator, and higher, between it and the brachieus. The supinator rises from this, as well as from the bone. The front of the arm, is formed, near the shoulder, by the deltoid and pectoralis major, then, at its upper part, by the biceps and coraco-brachialis, lower, by the biceps and brach- ieus internus, which begins where the coraco-brachialis ends. On each side, the strict front, is flanked by the triceps. The median line of the biceps, coiTesponds to one, drawn from the coracoid process to the elbow joint, at the inner margin of its tendon. The inner margin, up to about two inches and a half of the fold of the axilla, is found by a line, from the inside of the tendon, to the inside of the shaft, close by the anterior fold of the axilla; but this line, higher than the spot mentioned, traverses not the biceps, but the coraco- bi’achialis. This margin, to near the joint, and consequently the tract of the artery, may also be found in slender subjects, if the fore-arm do not incline, naturally, much outward, by extending a thread, directly down, from the inside of the arm, just behind the tendon of the pectoral muscle, to the inside, or rather the back, of the pisiform bone, the hand being supine; or, to the inside of the fore-arm, about midway, between the elbow and wrist, if the arm incline much out- wardly, and, also, in strongly muscular subjects, in whom the belly of the muscle may be above two inches broad, whereas, in the former, or emaciated, all the muscles are small, and the biceps not an inch and a half broad. The narrower the muscle, the nearer the joint will the line I'epresent its margin. In strong men, the muscle tapers much, at fully an inch and a half above the joint. The whole arm is covered by a subcutaneous fascia, gen- erally divisible into two layers, the innermost, the thinnest and most cellular. Between these, the superficial veins lie, and are more or less fixed, according as this fascia is more or less cellular. A deep aponeurosis adherent to the muscles, and also to the intermuscular ligaments, invests the arm be-315 neatli this. If, on the inside of the arm, we trace the fascia from its union with the intermuscular band, we find it, there, dividing into two layers. The outermost, is the general deep aponeurosis of the arm, as well as of the fore-arm. It extends outward on the brachial vein and all the other vessels and nerves, to the margin of the biceps, and thence as an invest- ment round the arm. Often, in the whole course of the great brachial vein, it sends a thin septum down, between it and the internal cutaneous nerve, and the artery, venae comites, and median nerve, which are involved in a general sheath, that may be traced from the axilla, whilst septa may often be shown, dipping down between the individual vessels and nerves. The innermost, or deepest, layer of the fascia, may be traced from the same line (intermuscular) over the brachieus, under the basilic and cutaneous veins, to join the expansion from the biceps tendon, being either identified with its margin, or sending a thin layer, under it, on to the op- posite side. Returning to the intermuscular ligament, we find a layer of thin fascia extending from it, over the brachieus,. near the elbow, part of which, is lost in, or reflected up on the sheath of the vessels, which is very thin behind them, in so much, that the artery, in the arm, seems to lie on the muscles, with only a thin cellular layer interposed. It is necessary to add, that the layers of fascia, and even their pre- cise origin and course, are not always alike distinct, or appar- ently exactly the same. But, the whole extremity being covered by a superficial and deep fascia, and there being va- rious connexions and prolongations of the latter, we may understand how from a small origin, disease may be exten- sively propagated. There is great variety, not only, in the origin of the indi- vidual NERVES of the arm, but, also, in the formation of the axillary plexus, so that it is not possible, from an affection of a particular nerve, to be certain which of the cervical nerves is principally diseased. For instance, the fourth and fifth, may join, at the margin of the scalenus, and then separate; the fifth next receive the sixth, and their united trunks, join that formed by the seventh, and first dorsal. Or, a large316 division of the third joins the first, and the nerve thus formed, unites to the fifth, and presently this trunk subdi- vides: the fifth, and sixth, unite, and receive the separated branches of the third; next, the seventh and the dorsal unite; or, the fourth and fifth join, ami this trunk unites with the sixth, and, farther on, with the united trunk of the seventh and dorsal. The outer head, of the median nerve, is formed from the fourth and fifth, sometimes with an addition from the third, or from these, and the sixth cervical nerve. The inner head, from the seventh, and the first dorsal nerve, often chiefly from the latter. The internal cutaneous, has either the same origin with the inner head, or comes off from it. The exter- nal cutaneous, either comes off from the outer head, or rises as a separate nerve, from the fourth, fifth, and sixth, or the fourth and fifth cervical. The ulnar, rises from the first dor- sal, and last cervical nerve, with an addition, sometimes, from the sixth. The spiral, occasionally’rises, chiefly, from the last cervical, or from the fourth and fifth, or, fifth and sixth ; but is often connected with all, or, it rises from a common trunk, formed ultimately by all, and which also may give off the articular and infra-scapular. The nerves in, and near, the axilla, have already been so far noticed. The Supra-scapular, sometimes rises chiefly from the third or fifth, but generally from the fourth, passes out- ward, to get under the ligament, which stretches across the notch in the scapula, and is distributed to both the spinati, and neighbouring muscles. The Infra-scapular comes off along with the articular, from the sixth, seventh, and first dor- sal, or from the spiral nerve, or from a common trunk to which all the nerves contribute, and which may be considered as the head of the spiral. It runs obliquely downward and back- ward, on the subscapularis, to which it gives branches, and also to the serratus magnus-and latissimus dorsi. A large division of the nerve, from which it derives its name, runs along the margin of the subscapularis, with the infra-scapular artery, supplying the teretes. The Articular nerve comes off' with the infra-scapular, from the same source, though, some-317 times, it rises separately from tlie spiral, or the trunk forming it, and runs down, covered by the great vessels and the axillary nerves, till it reach the margin of the subscapularis muscle. It then winds backward, between the anterior margin of the first head of the triceps, and the bone, and between the ter- etes. Here, it divides into three large branches, which divari- cate, considerably, by the time they reach the anterior margin of the triceps. The middle branch, goes back into the del- toid, passing between the triceps and teres minor. The ante- rior, goes also into the deltoid. The posterior, gives filaments to the subscapularis, and proceeds to the infra-spinatus. The circumflex artery is farther forward, or nearer the joint than the nei’ve. The vein sometimes covers the nerve, being far- ther back than the artery. Some nerves, important in operations, have been already noticed in the axilla. The intercosto-humeral, from the second and third dorsal, pierce the intercostal muscles, between the second and third, and, particularly, the third and fourth ribs, and not only ramify and intermix in the axilla, but from the kind of plexus thus formed, a slender branch descends across the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and thence, quite subcutaneous, downward and backward, over the triceps, for at least half way down the arm, or, we find two distinct nerves come out, at different spaces, the highest, going on the posterior part of the triceps, the lowest, coming out between the fourth and fifth ribs, more forward on the chest, at the margin of the pectoralis major, goes to the axilla, and down on the forepart of the triceps. The first of these, often receives a communicating branch from the second. Another, and often larger nerve, rises very high from the root of the spiral nerve, descends behind the axillary vein, gets on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, more forward than the former branch, runs down the arm, on the inside of the brachial vein, till about the middle of the arm, where it leaves it, going backward on the triceps, all the way to the back of the inner condyle, or, it, sometimes, a little above the condyle, joins the inner division of the internal cutaneous nerve. For a considerable way down, it is under the fascia. It is named318 the superior, or little, cutaneous nerve. When wantintr, its place IS supplied by a division of the intercosto-humeral. Sometimes it comes off from the internal cutaneous, or receives a small head from it, which crosses the vein. A lit- tle above the condyle, this nerve, often, lies on the face of the ulnar. The relation of the other nerves, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, has already been described (page 295). The Median nerve, formed as we have seen, runs, for the greatest part of the arm, by the margin of the biceps, partly overhung by it, pretty nearly on the face of the artery. In a few instances, the two heads do not meet till near the middle of the arm, one lying before the other, partly behind, and partly on the inside of the artery. About four inches above the joint, the nerve begins to be more under the artery, which, near the bend of the arm, covers the nerve, and at the bend, is more toward the tendon of the biceps, that is, the nerve is to the inside of the artery, though in some cases it is found on it. No branches are given off, regularly, by the median in the arm, except filaments to the sheath or covering of the vessels. But, sometimes, the external cutane- ous comes off from it, or, where that nerve does not give off the brachial branch, it rises from the median, about half way up the arm. It is not much larger than a thick thread, con- tinues with the trunk till about a handsbreadth above the joint, when, crossing obliquely the artery, it gets to the brach- ieus internus, where it is lost. About an inch and a half above the joint, there is often given off, a small branch, that runs down on the face of the inner vena comes, to the pronator teres. The external cutaneous also, occasionally, comes off from the trunk of the median, either following its regular course, or, after running longer than usual, down in the coraco-brachialis, it comes out of that, and goes beneath the biceps. Indeed, most ffequently, this nerve comes off’ not distinctly from the axillary plexus, but from the anterior, or outer, head of the median. In some cases, this head like the external cutaneous, enters the coraco-brachialis, runs down in it for some way, and then coming out, joins the other319 head about the middle of the arm, to form the common trunk of the median. The Internal cutaneous, lies to the inside of the median, running, till below the middle of the arm, on the face of the brachial vein, or along one of its margins. If along the outer, it is a boundary between the vein and median nerve; if alono- the inner, it sometimes almost rests on the ulnar nerve. About two inches above the elbow joint, sometimes hiffher, it winds a little more backward, and divides into two branches; the smallest, goes down on the face of the inner condyle, in moreramuli than one; the largest, and outermost, also subdivides, and goes down by the median basilic vein, over the inner front of the fore-arm. Sometimes, near the axilla, a large branch is also given off, which soon becomes cutaneous, and runs down farther back than the trunk, or, about the middle of the arm, a branch runs beneath the brachial vein, inward to the face of the condyle. The Ulnar, for about half way down the arm, lies on the triceps, partly, to the inside of, and, partly, behind the other nerves and the vessels, generally behind the vein. Then, it divaricates inward and backwai’d, so as to get, at three inches above the peak of the condyle, behind the intermuscular lig- ament. The course of the nerve, as it proceeds to the con- dyle, may be marked by a line, drawn from the inside of the middle of the arm, to the back of the condyle. The profunda inferior accompanies it, and their relative situation will soon be noticed. This nerve, is always under the apon- eurosis of the arm, but in the lower half, it is enclosed as it were, in a sheath, by the aponeurosis which passes from the triceps to the brachieus, and sometimes a little above the joint, it is even covered by a thin fasciculus of the fibres of the triceps. Reaching the condyle, it passes behind it, cov- ered, and bound down, by a firm aponeurosis, which goes from the condyle and triceps over the nerve, as will be afterwards described. No branches are given off, by the ulnar nerve, in the arm.320 1 he Spiual, is behind the artery, till fully half an inch below the fold of the axilla, or latissimus dorsi. It, then, be- gins to wind outward, and, at three inches, is behind the bone, and about midway down the arm, it is fairly to its outside. It is placed, after leaving the latissimus, between the first and second head of the triceps, or, partly, on the face of the longus, then, it is lodged, for a little, between the second and third heads. It passes behind the bone, just where the second head ceases to rise by tendon from the bone, and runs be- tween it, and the origin of the brevis, so that its boundary there is tendinous. It then descends, buried deeply, first, between the triceps and brachieus, and then between the bi’achieus and supinator longus, in a sulcus between the two layers of the former. Between these, it is guided for- ward, to the front of the outer condyle, where it subdivides for the fore-arm. In its course behind the bone, it is accom- panied by the spiral artery, with its corresponding veins; their relation will soon be mentioned. Several branches are given off in the arm. Even when on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, it often gives off one or two rami, which wind over the tendon to the triceps, beneath the aponeurosis. Just after passing the tendon, it frequently gives off a small, but long branch, which descends on the triceps, covered by the ulnar nerve, to the elbow joint, where, getting anterior to the ulnar, it enters the brachieus internus. Sometimes, two pretty large bx’anches, but always one, may be found coming off from the trunk, before it crosses behind the bone. If only one, it runs sometimes behind, but, generally before the trunk, but adherent to it for some time. This divaricates outward, between the triceps and brachieus, giving off a branch which becomes cutaneous. The trunk continues deep, gets, for a short way, between the supinator longus and triceps, and about two inches and a half above the joint, appears on the outer margin of the supinator, and subdivides into two, the one division, running down on the back of the side of the fore-arm, the other, more on the side, scarcely in front. The external cutaneous, is more forward, on the fore-arm than these, which are, like it, superficial.321 'I'he External cutaneous, passes down by the head of the humerus, partly to the outside, but still more to the front of the artery. It begins to enter the coraco-brachialis, opposite the neck of the bone, (though sometimes not for fully an inch lower) is soon buried in it, and comes out, on its opposite side, about an inch lower than its entrance. It then, for a little way, runs between this muscle and the biceps, covered by the inner margin of the latter, till it reach the brachieus interims, on which, covered by its thin fascia, it rests, and on which, it continues its course downward and outward, till it pass out, from under the biceps, by the outer margin of its tendon, or end of its belly, about an inch and a half above the head of the radius. Just before this, it lies, pretty deep, between'the margin of the biceps and face of the brachieus. It then proceeds to the fore-arm, running superfi- cially, but under the cephalic vein, for a time, in the course of the anterior margin of the supinator longus. About three inches below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, or toward the middle of the arm, it gives off a large branch, the bi’achieus, which runs directly downward, whilst the trunk winds outward. It goes into the brachieus internus. When the cutaneous comes off from the median, it is generally below the fold of the axilla, running, for a time, by the outside of the median, and, after giving off the brachieus, it either passes through the coraco-brachialis, near its insertion, or through part of the biceps, or runs outward over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and under the biceps. Thus, we see, that the superficial nerves of the arm are, at the inner and posterior part, down to near the elbow, the intercosto-humeral, and cutaneus minor, and sometimes a descending branch from the spiral. Near the elbow, we have, on the inside, branches from the internal cutaneous, aided by the termination of the cutaneus minor. The outer part, is supplied by branches from the spiral, aided perhaps, near the joint by twigs, from the external cutaneous. The muscles are supplied chiefly by branches from the spiral and external cutaneous, or sometimes by the median in place of it. 11. Y32^ The Veins df the arm, leaving their particular relation, at its bend, for future consideration, consist of the cephalic on the outside, and the brachial, or continuation of the basilic, with the deep venae comites on the inside. From the back of the hand, two sets of veins arise; these unite at the middle of the back of the wrist, and form a trunk, called the cephalic, which winds up by the outside, or a very little farther for- ward, of the supinatoi-. It reaches the outer margin of the biceps, a little above the joint. From the hand, at the side of the thumb, veins rise, which run up by the side of the wrist, and radius, for a little way, receiving additions from the ball of the thumb. A little higher than the wrist, the trunk so formed, and called the median, runs up by the anterior margin of the supinator, then, more inward, in the direction of the flexor radialis, proceeding toward the middle of the elbow joint, or tendon of the biceps, on which it divides into two; the innermost, called the median basilic, runs upward, and inward, to join the basilic; the outermost, or median cephalic, runs up by the outer margin of the tendon of the biceps, meets the cephalic about an inch above the joint, and forms the common cephalic, which proceeds by the outer margin of the muscle, or sometimes a little on its face, till it reach the insertion of the pectoral muscle, where it continues on, between it and the deltoid, till it dip to the subclavian. The median cephalic, and perhaps the very commencement of the common cephalic, lie on, or cover the external cuta- neous nerve, where it comes out from beneath the biceps. Both veins, like the other subcutaneous ones, are under the superficial fascia, but the cephalic, in the fore-arm, is some- times under a deeper layer. The Basilic, is the continuation of the superficial ulnar. This, formed from a vein at the margin of the little finger, increased by additions from the ulnar division of the median, ascends by the back of the ulna, from which it winds forward, at about a handbreadth below the inner condyle, over the front of which, or rather the origin of the pronator, and flexor radialis, it passes obliquely upward and outward, mid- way between the intermuscular ligament, and tendon of the3‘2,S biceps, toward the inner margin of that muscle, or the line of the artery, which it reaches, perhaps an inch above the joint, and pi'oceeds upward toward the axilla, by the inside of the artery, as the brachial vein. Sometimes it subdivides into two. The addition from the median, viz., the median basilic, enters it about an inch above the joint, and a smaller vein, from the face of the ulna, often joins it lower. There is, however, considerable irregularity in the coui'se, the height at which the median basilic enters, and even the number of these superficial veins, for such they are, compai’atively at the elbow, as the brachial itself lies deep above the joint. For instance, it is not unusual for the basilic, to meet the artery, from two to three inches above the joint, whilst, from the cephalic, at the outside of the biceps tendon, is given off a large branch, which crosses the tendon obliquely, and mounts up to enter the basilic, where that meets the artery, and, con- sequently, it crosses obliquely both the artery and the median nerve. The cephalic in the arm, is sometimes merely a con- tinuation of the median, receiving a small tributary vein, from the margin of the supinator. In other cases, at the joint, it receives a large communicating branch from the radial comites. Two deep veins, usually, accompany the artery, one to its outside, the other to its inside, and closely in contact with it. These, called the comites, are formed by the union, at the elbow joint, of the comites belonging to the radial and ulnar arteries, each of which has two accompanying veins, which unite at the joint, to form the two brachial comites, one of which often lies on the face of the humeral artery, at the elbow joint. Besides these veins, the larger muscular branches, of the brachial artery, have their comites. The course, or line, of the brachial artery, has already been described. On the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and from that, till the origin of the triceps brevis, it lies on the spiral nerve, or has that behind it. From the margin of the tendon of the latissimus, to the triceps brevis, it rests on the tiiceps longus, with the intervention of the spiral nerve, and bounded on the outside by the coraco-brachieus. Then, it324 rests on the triceps brevis, a little overlapped by the biceps. At the insertion of the coraco-brachieus, it is between its ten- don, on the outer part, and the triceps brevis, behind. Then, it rests on the front of the side of the brachieus internus. The artery is accompanied by two venae comites, one, on the outside, another, on the inside, and here and there, com- municating branches between them, or, sometimes, muscular branches, entering into them, cross obliquely the face of the artery. The continuation of the basilic vein, called the brachial, from the point where it meets the artery, above the elbow, continues up by its inner margin. The relation of the spiral nerve has just been mentioned; the ulnar, for nearly half way down the arm, is behind the great vein, with the profunda inferior to its outside, and then it divaricates inward, and a little backwai’d. The internal cutaneous nerve, lies on the face, or margin of the vein; the little cutaneous, often, on the inside of the vein, and front of the ulnar nerve; the median, on the face of the artery, till near the joint, when it is to its inside. There is great variety in the origin and distribution of the brachial branches, but the most regular way is to send off a superior and inferior profunda, and the ramus anastomoti- cus, besides minor ramuli. First, the Superior profunda comes off, high, from the back part of the artery, either on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, or immediately after passing that. It gives a small division, which winds outward on the triceps brevis, and under the coraco-brachieus. A second and larger branch, runs downward and inward on the triceps, supplying the longus and brevis, whilst the largest division, or trunk, receives the name of the spiral artery. Its relation to the spiral nerve, is not uniformly the same. Generally, it is first on the front of the nerve, and then, after the turn, continues on its inside. Sometimes it is, soon after its origin, rather behind the nerve; then, in going round the bone, it is to its outside; and when fairly to the outside of the arm, the nerve is behind the artei'y, but soon crosses under it, and gets before it, so, that when we come to the supinator, the artery is found behind the nerve. A large muscular branch325 of the nerve, often goes down by the inside of the artery, into the triceps, whilst the superficial branch runs by its outside. The artery in its regular course, runs under the supinator, between it and the brachieus, down deep on the front of the condyle, meeting the recurrens radialis, so as to form a continuous vessel. In some instances, the artery runs on the back of the supinator, between it and the triceps, to join the interosseous recurrent. About the middle of the arm, when the spiral artery is yet behind the bone, and covered by the triceps secundus, it gives off the ramus posti- cus, which runs down the back of the arm, near the bone, deep, by the line of union of the first and second heads of the triceps. It gives branches, freely, into both, and con- tinues its course to the back of the joint, where it anasto- moses with the recurrens interossea. Thus, the upper part of the inside of the arm, its back and outside, are supplied, in great measure, by the profunda superior. Second, the lower half of the inside, is supplied by the profunda inferior, and ramus anastomoticus. The fii'st of these, comes off a little lower than the profunda superior, runs down on the triceps brevis, by the inside of the brachial artery, till the middle of the arm, when it divaricates inward, gets by the outer margin of the ulnar nerve, or partly covered by it, but sometimes partly in front of it. A branch of the spiral nerve, coming off near the axilla, runs down behind the ulnar nerve and great vessels, all the way to the elbow, entering the triceps. The artery follows the course of the ulnar nerve, passing behind the inner condyle, inosculating with the recurrens ulnaris, so as to form a continuous tube. Sometimes it sub- divides into two, which again unite. It also sends off, outward, ramuli to anastomose with the spiral artery. It gives off muscular branches in its course. Third, about two inches, sometimes only one, above the elbow joint, the articular artery, or ramus anastomoticus, as it has been called, comes off from the inside of the artery, winds a very little way upward on the brachieus internus, then bends down, and after giving one or two ramuli to the triceps, divides into two branches; one, goes backward, and winds a little outwardbetween the triceps and the bone, gives a branch to that muscle, then descends on the capsule, and down by the outer margin of the olecranon, to meet the recurrens interossea, which runs up, deep, between the radius and ulna, close by the radial margin of the latter; another, divides in front of the condyle, and anastomoses with the recurrens ulnaris. All these arteries, near the joint, anastomose freely, and when well injected, these deep branches, near the bone, both from the profundae and recurrents, form a very fine ramifica- tion. There is, however, much variety in these branches of the brachial artery. The spiral is sometimes given off by the circumflexa posterior, and the upper muscular branches, usually given by the profunda superior, as well as the posterior or perpendicular branch of the spiral, may come off separately from the parent artery. The ramus anastomoticus, is often, especially when it comes off high, aided by a still lower branch, rising very near the bend of the arm, which, after giving a division to the brachieus, runs down on the front of the inner condyle and of the capsule. Irreg- ular muscular branches, are also given off, from the brachial artery, which have no name. Most of these run outward, crossing, in some places, in front of, in others, behind the outer vena comes. One large branch is often sent off, high, to ramify in the biceps. Near the insertion of the coraco- brachialis, a small one runs downward and outward into the bone, and to the medulla. Its canal is on the inner and anterior face of the middle of the bone, and is too small to admit a catheter wire. All these branches have their vense comites. It is not very rare to find the radial, or, less frequently, the ulnar, come off high in the arm. It has been said, that when the radial comes off high, it is superficial, whereas, if the ulnar be the branch given off prematurely, it runs as usual under the fascia. My brother stated the case, in his dissections, to be quite the reverse. My own observation would lead me to say, that, though both arteries be under the brachial fascia, yet, the radial is more superficial, than the humeral artery ought to be. It is found by the margin of327 the biceps, at the outside of the median, and sometimes has, at the middle of the arm, the internal cutaneous nerve on its face. Two small venae comites accompany it, one on each side. The ulnar artery is more internal, sometimes consid- erably so, and rather deeper, with the median nerve on its face. The brachial vein is to its inside, and two comites attend it. It gives olF the profunda, and other branches emanating from the humeral artery. This distribution some- times exists in both arms of the same individual. If we find the supposed humeral artery to be more superficial than usual, or, in any way, different from its usual relation, we ought, before tying it, to ascertain the effect on the tumour or circu- lation, by pressing the vessel, where we intend to place the ligature. There is, however, sometimes at the elbow joint, a direct communication between the two arteries, the united trunk giving off the radial, and then passing down in the proper course of the ulnar. In this, or in any other modifi- cation of reunion, it is clear, that in aneurism at the bend of the arm, tying either artery, in the arm, could do no good: the aneurismal tumour would still be freely supplied, unless both arteries were tied, nor would this be more dangerous than the ligature of the brachial artery in ordinary cases. Sometimes the interossea comes off high in the arm, and runs down by the inside of the brachial artery. If we have occasion to tie the brachial artery, we would, if we had our choice, prefer doing it a little lower than the middle of the arm, so as to preserve the benefit of the pro- funda inferior. The origin of the ramus anastomoticus is so uncertain, and often so near the joint, and it is so little necessary to the success of the operation, so far as the main- tenance of the circulation is concerned, that we ought not to pay any attention to it. The course of the artery, and line of the margin of the biceps, have already been described. Close by that margin, and parallel to it, we make an incision of about two inches long, or, in fat people, half an inch more. This exposes the aponeurosis of the arm, which is to be cautiously divided, so, as distinctly to show the margin of the biceps, when the nerves and vessels, imbedded in cellular328 substance, are easily found. If the incision be made in the proper line, close by the muscle, and its edge be exposed, the median nerve is the first object seen, or felt like a firm cord. It is sometimes even slightly overlapped by the margin of the muscle, but it is impossible to miss it. To the inside of the median nerve, is the great brachial vein, with the internal cutaneous nerve, on its face. Sometimes we do not see the vein, to the inside of these nerves, but the ulnar nerve, which is also farther back, and the two hide the vein. The artery is, on the other hand, covered by the median nerve, which must, therefore, be pressed aside to expose it. In general, we expose the artery best, by gently bending the fore-arm, and then pi-essing all the nerves and brachial vein inward. But if the median nerve, be, more than usual, overlapped by the biceps, it may, in such cases, do to leave it in situ, and press the rest inwai'd. The artery is seen, placed between its two venae comites, unless these be so much distended, as partly to cover it. Looking between these veins, and gently separating them, we find the ai’tery, and, with a pair of narrow pointed forceps, raise its sheath, and slit it up for a little. It is then to be insulated, to the extent of near half an inch, by a director, or blunt probe, and an aneurism needle, with its ligature, carried under it, the extremity being directed out- wards. No sharp instrument is to be employed, for we may cut one or more of those irregular branches, given off to the muscles, especially to the biceps, and, also, toward the inner margin, might injure the profunda inferior, which runs, sometimes, for a considerable way, parallel to, and close by it. The lower we go, the farther does this branch recede inwards, with the ulnar nerve. If it be unusually large, it may resemble the trunk, or we may erroneously suppose, that the ulnar and radial arteries have divided high. But its rela- tions, and, pressing on it, having no effect on the pulsation of either arteries below, will, even in this case, prevent mistake. If we have occasion to tie the brachial artery higher, or near the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, we shall find the same relation of parts, with this difference, that the pro- funda superior, as well as the spiral nerve, are behind the329 artery. We also, here, go by the margin of the coraco- brachialis, instead of that of the biceps. The external cuta- neous nerve, if not already in that muscle, is at the outside of the artery. The neatness and facility of our operation, depend on laying the scalpel exactly at the edge of the biceps, and cut- tin» with its blade, directed backward, so that we are neither led under the biceps, nor directed from it. If we make an incision too far back, we miss the biceps, and the margin of the triceps brevis, about the middle of the arm, has actually been mistaken for it, and the ulnar, for the median nerve. If the brachial artery divide high, the relation of the two branches in the arm, must, with regard to one or other of them, be somewhat different from that of the brachial artery, when single. This will lead to suspicion of the case, and to farther examination, as well as to ascertaining the effect, on the aneurism, or haemorrhage, of pressure, on the exposed vessel. If the artery, be found more superficial than usual, and occupy the place of the median nerve, that is, close by the margin of the biceps, we shall probably find, by turning that nerve inward, that we expose, more deeply, a second artery, as large, or larger, which is the ulnar. Sometimes, we find, on the face of the radial artery, at the biceps, in the middle of the arm, a nerve, but it is smaller than the median ; it is the internal cutaneous, which, presently, winds inward, but, generally, it is, from first to last, to the inside of the artery, and of the median nerve. The radial artery, in such cases, is best exposed, by pressing every nerve, &c., inward; the ulnar, by keeping the median nerve, and radial artery outward, and pressing the internal cutaneous, and brachial vein inward. We do not apply the ligature to either vessel, till we ascertain, by pressing with the finger, whether it will accomplish our object. I have already men- tioned that it may be necessary to tie both. 1 he Lymphatics, are divided into the superficial and the deep. The first, accompany the superficial radial and ulnar veins, to the joint, when they ascend the inside of the aim to the axilla, where they meet with the deep absorbents.330 These, run in the course of the vente comites of the radial and ulnar arteries, and then accompany the brachial vein. 1 he glands, in the arm, are small in health, but when enlarged by disease, they form a chain on both sides of the vessels. One, is usually found on the face of the biceps, a little above the joint, and one, a little above the inner condyle. How the nerves may be either found, or avoided, in opera- tion, can be easily determined, by the description of their situation. It is chiefly the cutaneous, that we should think of intentionally dividing, on account of the consequence of laceration, puncture, &c.; but still I shall notice how the others may be exposed. The Median nerve, in the arm, till near the elbow joint, is found close by the margin of the biceps muscle. The Internal cutaneous, is exposed by mak- ing a short incision, a little more inward than the margin of the biceps, so as to come on the tract of the brachial vein, rather than of the artery. On its face, the nerve is found running down, not far from the inside of the median nerve. But it^^is only high, that we expose the trunk, for it soon splits into branches. For the division of these, therefore, it is best to make a transverse incision, in the course of the branches, which seem to be affected. The External cutaneous nerve, is exposed near the elbow, by making an incision par- allel to tbe outer margin of the biceps, beginning two inches above the head of the radius, and extending, for at least an inch down. This exposes the cephalic vein, and, on draw- ing it cautiously outward, the nerve is seen issuing from betow the biceps, at about an inch and a half above the r^ius, restincr pretty firmly on the brachieus. It would be difficult to expose it at the top of the arm. It usually begins to enter the coraco-brachialis, near the neck of the bone, and could only be exhibited there, by making an incision into the axilla, and pressing the artery, vein, and other nerves inward, at that point. It lies partly before, and partly to the outside of these. The Spiral, near the elbow, is exposed, by making an incision from the outer margin of the arm, nearer its back, than actually its side, about two inches ^^ove the external condyle, obliquely down to its face or front.331 ought to be in the line of the anterior margin of the supina- tor, and, near the condyle, will traverse the cephalic vein, which is not to be wounded. A considerable space intervenes, at the top, between the margin of the supinator, and that of the biceps, occupied by the brachieus, which marches with the former. But at the joint, the margin of the supinator and ten- don of the biceps, are very near. Looking in the tract of our incision, for the margin of the supinator, we detach it, and turn it outward from the brachieus, when we see the nerve, with the spiral artery, and its venae comites. Its outer and inner superficial branches, are divided, by a short transverse incision, in their course already described. The trunk, near the axilla, is found, by cutting rather more inter- nally in the arm, than we would do, for exposing the artery. The nerve lies behind it. The Ulnar nerve is found, for some way above the elbow joint, behind the intermuscu- lar ligament, covered by a pretty strong aponeurosis. If we draw a line from the inside of the arm, at its middle, to the back part of the inner condyle, we have nearly the course of the nerve. By cutting in that direction, near the condyle, or by making a short incision from the back of the condyle upward, and a little forward, and separating the lips of the wound, we may see the ligament, but not the nerve, which is not displayed, till we cautiously slit up the aponeurosis, just behind the ligament. The relations of the nerve, to the arteria profunda inferior, has been described. These descriptions, may enable us, on the one hand, to j shun, in our operations, important parts, and, on the other, to form an opinion, as to what individual nerves, or vessels, have probably been injured in any particular wound. We also, in amputation, know where, at once, to look for the pi'incipal branches, and how they are placed with relation to nerves. In punctures of the brachial artery, with a small external wound, the blood is confined under the fascia, and produces a tumour, more or less prominent and extensive. Should that be opened, in place of tying the artery higher, we may expect, generally, to find the vessels and nerves, in their usual relations, both to the bone, and to one another..332 But if the puncture have been more to the back of tlie artery, it may be thrown a little forward, and even turned a little outward, so, as at the margin of the biceps, to be more super- ficial. It is prevented from going inward, by the muscular branches given off outward. The profunda?, also, though to a less degree, limit the displacement of the artery. A punc- ture of either of the profundae, if these be large, will produce an aneurismal tumour, which may, with difficulty, be dis- tinguished from that following an wound of the main artery. The strength of the pulsation at the elbow, or wrist, will assist the diagnosis, and the situation of the tumour itself, may be more inward and backward. When the humerus is Fractured, just below the fold of the axilla, the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis, will draw the upper part a little inwarch unless the tendon of the latter be, as often happens, prolonged downward, and remain entire. The other muscles, draw the shaft up, with little obliquity, perhaps a little outward. The second head of the triceps, helps to brace the fractured end of the bone. Sometimes, the superior portion of the deltoid, especially if it be lacerated near its insertion, may make the upper part project forwai’d, but this is less likely, than when the bone is broken near its middle, just at the end of the insertion of the deltoid. In this case, especially if the origin of the brachieus be torn, the upper part is elevated forward, and also drawn a little out- ward, whilst the under part, is drawn a little inward, by the coraco-brachieus, and upward, by it and the other muscles, such as the biceps and triceps. There are instances, where we cannot bring, or keep, the ends in contact, and the shaft straight, otherwise, than by bringing forward and outward the elbow. Fracture considerably lower than the insertion of the deltoid, is seldom attended with shortening of the bone, for the triceps and brachieus adhere to it, so that it is more liable to bend by position, than to have the lower end drawn up by the muscles. The tendinous insertion of the del- toid, is extensive, perhaps an inch and a half long, and the bone is rarely broken in the tract of that. If it were, though it might bend, yet, the ends should otherwise be little dis-333 placed. A transverse fracture, at the very end, just above the condyle, has, at first, little or no real shortening of the bone, unless the brachieus be lacerated, and the fracture very oblique. The olecranon is drawn backward, and a little upward by the triceps, the articular extremity of the bone, rolling or bending a little backward. The brachieus is, in the same proportion, stretched over the lower end of the shaft, which projects higher than the articulating end in disloca- tion, and sometimes the arm is a little twisted. The patient is easiest when the fore-arm is semibent. If it have been allowed to hang down, the brachieus is irritated, and the articular end may be more pulled up. There is, in this fracture a resemblance to dislocation, but the distinction is easily made, by attending to the exact relation of the parts, the position of the condyles, their natural distance from the olecranon, the existence of crepitation, the facility of reduc- tion, and the readiness with which the parts are again displaced. The semibent position, and the bent splints, are the best, for a cure, with passive motion in due time. Oblique fractures, at the articulating extremity, unless they merely belong to the edge of the condyle, extend into the joint. The inner condyle stands, more off, from the shaft, than the outer, and may be knocked off, without communi- cating with the joint. The pronator teres, will tend to draw the condyle forward, more especially if the arm be supine, whilst the flexor carpi radialis, will draw it downward. If a little more of the root of the condyle at the shaft, or the shaft itself, there, be obliquely split, the sigmoid cavity is intersected, as well as the articulating surface, receiving the ulna, but that bone cannot be carried upward, owing not only to its connexion with the radius, but from there being still enough of the outer part of the shaft entire to resist it. If the arm be stretched, the brachieus may turn forward the upper end of the fractured part, but in general it is resisted by the triceps, whilst the intermuscular ligament tends also to keep the part right. The flexors and pronator, may roll the broken piece a little forward. There is no necessity for any great separation or displacement, but the part may be.334 separated by tlie blow, and afterwards kept so by supination, 1 he fore-arm being bent to a right angle with the humerus, and rather prone, the broken portion is to be pressed into its situation, if displaced, and compresses laid, so as to keep it close by the shaft. Bent splints, or strong pasteboard, wet, and then moulded to the shape, and a roller are next to be applied, and the same position of the arm preserved. As there is often, at first, considerable swelling and pain, firm pressure, cannot, perhaps, be immediately endured; but as / these subside, it should be employed, and regular exami- nation made into the position of the bone. Passive motion is to be employed, as soon as reunion has taken place. Fracture of the outer condyle, must interest the radial articulation, but the broken part can neither rise nor descend, as it remains bound to the radius by the articulating apparatus, and that bone again is kept in its place, by its connexion with the ulna. If the split interest the whole condyle, it runs up in a line, by the inside of the head of the radius, and outside of the coronoid process. The part broken off, is that which gives origin to the supin- ator, and that muscle, especially in pronation and exten- sion, should draw the upper end of the piece a little outward, and rather forward. The extensores carpi will also tend to turn the part a little out. The supinator brevis, rising from the back of the condyle, if stretched, may drag the condyle forward, and turn its back a little round. The inter- muscular ligament is useful, and so is the connexion with the ti'iceps. The arm should be semibent and supine, and the same process followed as in the former case. If there be also a transverse, as well as a longitudinal or oblique fracture, there is more deformity, and, generally, besides the effect of the former, already described, we have more separation of the condyle. The arm is often easiest in the prone position, and, therefore, in such cases, is found in that state. The treatment is similar to that just advised, only, we must pay attention to keep both condyles in their situation; and, as a difference may occur, from the greater degree to which one side has suffered, we must, in the particular case, observe whether335 proiitition or supiniitioii 1)6 most £iilv£iiit£ig60iis Qncl com™ fortable. To understand fracture of the olecranon, and dislocation of the elbow, we must, first, attend to the fibrous capsule. This, in front, rises from the face of the outer condyle, and from a line extending inward, from that, to the side and root of the outer trochlea. Its line there slopes a little upward, across the fore partof the humerus, abouthalf an inch above the top of the articulating surface of the trochlea, but a little peak or fold, descends like a frenum, to the middle of the ti’ochlea. The fibrous tissue can be traced some way up the shaft, losing itself in the periosteum. It adheres to the surface of the ulnar side of the inner trochlea, extending down, on that surface, identified with a fasciculus of the brachieus muscle, which descends there. Behind, it extends from the one con- dyle to the other, just above the sigmoid cavity, adhering to the back of the inner condyle, and also to the still broader back of the outer condyle, so that it covers every part, but that intended to receive the olecranon. When the joint is bent, a little vacancy, or fossa, indeed, appears at the inner condyle; but when the arm is extended, this is filled by the inner side of the olecranon. The capsule, rising thus, is implanted into the articular margins of the olecranon behind, into those of the coronoid process before, and into the under margin and extremities of the ulnar sigmoid cavity, and thence extends to the neck of the radius, which it surrounds, and is there lost in, or identified with the periosteum. The fibres arising from the ends of the sigmoid, or articulating, fossa of the ulna, are thickened, so as to form a strong band, as broad as the side of the head of the radius, called the annular ligament, which binds it to that fossa. The under margin of this, as part of the capsule, is continued down into the periosteum, but so slackly as to permit of the radius being rolled, within a certain limit, without tearing it. It is implanted into the neck, about half an inch below the top or surface of the head, and in pronation and supination, the fibres become alternately straight and oblique. The rota- tion IS not intended to be greater, than the extent of that partot the side ot the head ol’ the radius, which is covered with cartilage, minus the lengtli of the articulating surface of the ulna. The first, is about an inch and a quarter; the second five-eighths. If then, the end of the cartilaginous rim, of the radius, do not pass beyond the little socket in the ulna, which it may be made to do, the extent of rotation, would be about five-eighths of an inch, or a little more than a fifth of the circumference of the head, (confirm- ed by experiment,) and about a seventh of the circumference of the neck, for the head projects more over the outer side of the neck, than the innei’, and the neck also inclines a little outward. The biceps, supinator brevis, &c., when in action, tend to limit rotation, and the oblique ligament does so also. This, which is more than an inch long, and fully an eighth broad, rises from the outer and fore part of the coronoid process, or rough portion at the top of the shaft, identified with the coronoid origin of the flexor profundus, partly covered by the brachieus, runs down on the ulnar side of the biceps tendon, or along its end or implan- tation, when the ai’m is supine, and is inserted into the inside of the radius, about half an inch below the tubercle. When the radius, especially in children, is much, and suddenly twisted outward, we may not only have the cap- sule stretched, perhaps partly torn, at the coronary liga- ment, but its connexion with the ulna, as well as the oblique ligament, may also be strained or lacerated. A fascial expansion going over the brachieus, and connected with the flexor radialis, and sublimis, and sheath of the biceps tendon, may be injured, or the little head of the pronator lacerated. In violent rotation inward, some of the strong tendinous fibres, which intermix with the supina- tor brevis, are stretched. The biceps tendon, and its fascial expansion, over the pronator, as well as its deeper connex- ions especially if the arm be extended, are strained, and so may the capsule, and some of the fibres of the lateral liga- ment. The sides of the capsule are strengthened, by additional fibres, named the lateral ligaments. From the very side ot337 the external condyle, strong fibres, forming the external liga- ment, rise along with the origin of the supinator brevis. It is impossible to separate this ligament, from the tendinous origin of the supinator, and they are so identified, that we might say that they were one, were it not that the termina- tion is different. The inner layer, called the ligament, spreads, as it goes down over the head of the radius, and seems to be lost in the annular ligament. A few muscular fibres of the supinator, also cover this, especially at the fore part. Behind, and toward the ulnar side, the capsule is fortified by the tendinous origin of the extensor ulnaris, which extends from the condyle, to the posterior ridge of the ulna, below the little sigmoid cavity, and adheres to the capsule. To the outside of this, but still behind, the capsule is strength- ened, by the origin of the extensor communis, which adheres to it. At the outside, the lateral ligament and supinator brevis, are covered by the extensores radiales longior and brevior, con- nected only by thin cellular substance. The inner lateral liga- ment, forms, in a manner, the floor of the fibrous canal, in which the ulnar nerve runs. At the inner condyle, besides the strong fascia investing the triceps and fore-arm, we have another deeper layer, going over the condyle, and back to the olecranon, connected with the intermuscular line, and lost, above and below, in the triceps and flexors. This, which forms the covering, or face, of the sheath enclosing the ulnar nerve, divides, at the margin of the condyle, into two layers. The outer and firmest, extends, as just noticed. The inner and thinnest, dips down under the nerve, and outward to the olecranon, when it mounts up again, to meet the aponeurosis there. Thus, there is formed a distinct tube, or canal, for the nerve. Slitting up this canal, we expose the nerve, imbedded in a little thin, but dense, cellular substance. On turning out the nerve, we see the floor of the canal, covered with the thin layer of fascia just described, and when this is dissected off, we then find those distinct fibrous bands of the capsule, called the internal lateral ligament. From the back of the inner condyle, nearly on a line with the sigmoid cavity, fibres go directly back, to the end of the.‘338 olecranon and triceps. Then, lower, they go to the side of the olecranon, and others go forwai’d to the coronoid process. Altogether, this ligament is broad, the band going directly outward, being near halt an inch broad. Besides this internal lateral ligament, we also find the fibrous capsule strengthened, by fibres running from the coronoid process, backward and upward, along the side of the olecranon, and rising like a wall at the side, as high nearly on the lateral surface of the trochlea, supplying the deficiency of bone at the side of the coronoid process. It is hid by both heads of the flexor ulnaris and the nerve. The root of the olecranon, corresponds to the line of the articulating surface, or that of the head of the radius. If the bone be broken just below that, it is a fracture of the shaft, and no retraction takes places. But, if above that, the triceps tends to draw up the broken piece, and does so in proportion, as the firm fibrous coverings of the bone already described, and the capsule connected with the margin of the process, may have been lacerated. The anconeus has little effect, unless the fracture be low, and the fibrous expan- sion much lacerated. Unless the fore-arm be much bent, the retraction is sometimes so slight, that the existence of fracture, is only discovered by crepitation. Union by ossific substance, unless near the shaft, is not to be invariably expected, and, therefore, it is of more importance to have the intermedium small. The extended position, with pi’oper compresses and rollers, is well adapted for the purpose, but some advise the semibent state, on the supposition, that the other leaves a deficiency in front, apt to be filled by irregular callus. This can only happen, if the compresses be inaccu- rately placed, so as to permit separation of the bone. It is possible for the broken portion, to form an adhesion to the margin of the sigmoid cavity, and, then, motion can only be performed by the pliability of the intermedium, or the forma- tion of a new joint, at the line of the fracture. This is to be prevented by passive motion, begun at the proper time, but so conducted, as not to separate the surface of the fractured part. As the fracture must communicate with the joint, if339 the process be broken across, we must guard against inflam- mation. Compound fracture, not only greatly endangers the joint, but, especially, if comminuted, the whole arm, up to the shoulder, may swell; matter forms under the fascia, and the patient speedily sinks. Attending, next, to the parts under the aponeurosis, we find, behind, at the olecranon, the broad tendon of the triceps, with the aponeurosis going off at each side. The posterior surface of the olecranon is covered by aponeurosis, and, partly, by the anconeus. Then, from the lateral ridge of the bone, just above the outer condyle, we have the extensor carpi radialis longior, (the supinator is higher as well as more forward). Then, going backward, we have the back of the condyle almost bare, except in so far as it has been covered by aponeurosis. From the fore margin, of the side of the condyle, rises the extensor brevior. From the very end, just behind that, is the extensor communis. Then, from the inside of the middle of the condyle, rises the anconeus. Some of its fibres go directly across, or back, to the side of the olecranon. It then runs obliquely do^vn, for more than two inches, on the ulna. At the broadest part, it is about three quarters of an inch broad, but ends in an obtuse point, so as to have an angular shape, like the scapula. It marches, at its radial side, with the margin of the extensor carpi ulnaris, and, on separating them, we see the supinator brevis, and higher, part of the capsule, obliquely traversed by a band of the origin of the flexor ulnaris. Deep, it marches, at the upper part, with the supinator brevis, and, at its end, with the top of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Its inner margin, is bounded by the posterior ridge of the ulna. At the front of the joint, we have the biceps, with its tendon, and a strong aponeurotic expansion, from a quarter, to above half an inch broad, going off* from it, obliquely over the pronator and flexor radialis. The inner margin is formed by the pronator, aided, on the inside, by the flexor radialis, then, by the palmaris and flexor ulnaris. The outer margin is formed by the supinator longus, which is met, at an angle, by the pronator, at from an inch, to an inch and a half340 below the bend. From the upper part of the condyle, the pronator is, partly, covered by the flexor radialis, but, at from a half, to three quarters of an inch, below the point where it meets the supinator, it is quite hid or covered by the flexor, which thus marches with that muscle. In this angle, so formed, is lodged the tendon of the biceps, with a little of the brachieus, seen between it and the supinator, on its outside. None is seen on the inside, till the pronator be drawn inward, or the vessels, &c., be removed, for, the space between it and that muscle, is occupied by the vessels and median nerve. The supinator is covered only by the com- mon deep fascia. The pronator is at, and a little above, the condyle, bound to the brachieus by strong aponeurosis. Lower, or at, and below the joint, it is bound to the tendon of the biceps, by the broad expansion of aponeurosis which rises from the face of the muscle, at its termination, and from the front and inner margin of the tendon. This tendon begins at the outer mai'gin of the muscle, about two inches above the bend, then, lower, the front is tendinous. The length of pure tendon, is about two inches and a quarter, and it is implanted into the posterior margin, of the tubercle of the radius, for an extent of more than half an inch, so that the tendon there is flat, and of that breadth. It is connected to the surface of the tubercle, by dense cellular substance. It marches with the upper margin of the main body of the supinator brevis, and is placed between it and the insertion of the brachieus. The oblique ligament passes between it and the flexor sublimis. The deep fascia of the arm, covering also the brachieus, more or less distinctly in different cases, involves the tendon like a sheath. Besides, we find, that the upper part of the supinator brevis goes off as a strip, about a quarter of an inch broad, which passes inward, behind, or under the biceps tendon, to the inside of the neck of the radius, where it is inserted tendinous, or, sometimes, the most of the strip resembles ligament. The upper margin of the body of the muscle, traverses the under margin or front of the tendon, which thus lies in a kind of fork, but the ends of this, arc so connected with a continua-341 lion of fascia from the brachieus, that a semicircle is there formed. Thus, the tendon, at its implantation, is almost surrounded by a band, partly muscular, and partly fascial, connected with the insertion of the brachieus, the oblique lio-ament, and flexor sublimis. Behind the tendon, between it and the neck of the radius, is a bursa which may swell and push forward the tendon, or produce a fulness at the front of the joint. Complete pronation, only stretches, or draws down, the tendon to the extent of scarcely half an inch. If the apon- eurotic expansion from the tendon, or even its deeper connexions be relaxed, or torn, the tendon is apt to start up a little in flexion. But this may happen to a certain extent, from mere contraction of the muscle, consequent to inflam- mation, productive of rigidity of the joint. Cutting the expansion, allows the pronator to fall a little inward. On cutting across, and turning down the biceps, and removing the vessels and median nerve, we expose, in so far, the brachieus, for part, at the inside, is still covered by the pronator, which, indeed, is bound to it by strong fascial fibres, running from the brachieus, downward and inward. On its outside, it is bound also, by fascia, to the supinator longus. The muscle, for about two inches above the bend, is glistening, being covered with tendinous or strong aponeurotic fibres, but not all the way across, for under the biceps tendon, the surface is fleshy; more inward, the tendinous fibres are thinner. We find the tendon implanted into the root of the coronoid process, and, obliquely, down the rough portion, of the top of the shaft, and also extending, though more thinly, up all the inner margin of the process. To see this, requires some displacement of the muscles at the sides. A part of the brachieus, also turns down, over the side of the inner trochlear surface of the humerus, and is bound to the front of the condyle, by aponeurotic fibres running upward and inward. On separating and turning out the supinator longus, which is connected to the glistening margin of the brachieus, we expose a deeper fleshy portion of that muscle, about hall an inch broad, lying partly on the condyle, and partly342 on the head of the radius. This, generally, is pretty much identified with the more superficial, or larger portion, which uses high, by two tongues, one on each side of the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Ilut, sometimes, it can be separated as a distinct layer, rising, much lower, from the bone and face of the intermuscular ligament, adhering also, intimately, to the front of the capsule, and inserted by a thin broad tendon, covered by that of the other portion. There is, at the out- side, a kind of sulcus, or angle, between the two portions, on which, or, partly in it and partly on this deep fasciculus, the tendon of the biceps is lodged. At the inside, it extends to nearly half an inch of the margin of the condyle, and is traversed obliquely downward and outward, by the deep tendinous origin of the flexor radialis, to which it is connected by fascia. Dislocation of the elbow may take place, in two degrees. In the first, the coronoid process is placed in the hollow, at the back part of the articulating trochlea. In the second, or greatest, it is lodged in the sigmoid cavity. The head of the radius is higher or lower, in these, on the back of the condyle. We recognise either of these, by the altered relation of the bones, which should be compared with that of the sound side. The fore-arm cannot be fully extended, nor completely bent, is sometimes a little twisted, and, especially if the soft parts be swelled, the general aspect as that of a diseased elbow joint. The end of the olecranon, is higher than a line drawn, transversely, from the one condyle to the other, and it is also farther back from the peak of the external condyle. It is highest in the greatest degree of luxation. If the capsule, and ligament be freely torn, the mobility is greatest, and if the patient be seen immediately after the accident, and before the muscles have recovered their tone, the bones are sometimes replaced, in the mere act of examination. If the posterior part of the capsule remain entire, as is generally the case, no power can fully bend the fore-arm, without first tearing that. If the anterior portion be quite torn, and the brachieus do not resist, the fore-arm may be considerably, sometimes entirely, extended; but even then, from the position of the343 bones, the joint does not appear straiglit. Both the external, and internal, lateral ligaments, resist displacement, and must be eitlier torn or stretched. If the anterior fibres of the external one be not torn, they, being stretched, may press the head of the radius, against the back of the condyle. The internal ligament is also extended, and it, with the upper part of the side of the capsule, if not torn, may resist, in so far, the production of the second or greatest degree of luxa- tion. If all the capsule behind, be not torn, but, chiefly, the inner and back part, the fore-arm may, by the action of the rest, which is stretched, be twisted a little inward, with a tendency to throw part of the side of the coronoid process, over the inside of the trochlea. The fold, or portion of capsule, which goes down between the radius and ulna, to the outside of the root of the coronoid process, is stretched, and increiises the tendency to twist. If this be torn, the bones can be carried higher. The aponeurosis, even of the ulnar nerve, is stretched, and if not torn, so as to allow the nerve to start, that is apt to be stretched, and so may the radial, if it keep its cellular connexions, or, the branch it gives to the supinator brevis. The higher branches of the pronator nerves, given olf by the median, are also affected. The brachieus and biceps will be stretched. The extensors, particularly, the extensor ulnaris, are stretched, and so is the anconeus, which may even be partially separated from the extensor ulnaris. The triceps, is in one respect corrugated, but, by the extension of the capsule, some of its fibres may be expanded. Its lateral aponeurosis, and the condyloid origin of the flexor ulnaris, must be more or less tightened, by the carrying back of the olecranon. In the greatest degree of dislocation, unless all the posterior part of the capsule be torn, the proposal of reducing, by bending the fore-arm over the knee, or in any other way, never can succeed. The remaining capsule is tightened, and presses the coronoid process more into the sigmoid cavity, and, till we lacerate the capsule, this plan must fail. Direct extension from the wrist, aided, if neces- sary, by such opposite pressure on the top of the fore-arm, and end of the humerus, as may tend to unlock the bones, is best#In the first degree, when the coronoid process is not so higli, if the brachieus act smartly, the plan of flexion may succeed by rolling the coronoid process over the trochlea, and if it once begin to do so, the very tightening of the capsule will assist. But, notwithstanding, the method by extension, is the most to be depended on. The ulna has been sometimes reduced, ■whilst the i-adius remained displaced. In others, the liead of that bone, after reduction, is felt to be more forward than it ought to be. This requires the application of a firm compress, and bandage, for a time. After these remarks, I add the measurement of a joint, which had been several weeks dislocated, the notes of which ai'e before me. The distance from the peak of the inner condyle, to the point of the oleci’anon, was two inches and three quarters, for that point, •was both farther back, and higher than natural. The mar- gin of the head of the radius, as felt through the soft parts, ■was about two inches behind the side of the outer condyle. The tendon of the biceps was rigid, and the distance between it and the olecranon, was four inches. The supinator had started somewhat forward, like a ridge at the upper part of the fore-arm, and the flexor radialis seemed a little more project- ing. In dissecting an old unreduced dislocation, we find a new articulation formed. The end of the humerus projects forward. The head of the radius lies in a shallow smooth artieulating surface, formed on the back of the condyle, which often expands more backward than natural. The inner condyle also extends a little farther back. The coronoid process is not absorbed, but either goes into the sigmoid cavity, or into a new hollow at the back of the trochlea. Considerable motion is permitted. It is possible for the ulna alone to be dislocated, whilst the radius remains in its place; but there are few instances of this. Lateral dislocation is usually inward, and caused by a heavy body, such as a cart-wheel, passing over the part. It is, there- fore, not unlikely, to be combined, with fracture of one or other of the bones. The inside of the ulna, is on a line with the peak of the inner condyle. The radius is much more inward3i<5 than it ought to be. The outer condyle forms a marked projection, and tlie integuments there, are sometimes so stretched, that they inflame and ulcei’ate. The fore-arm is prone, may be extended, and the mobility, laterally, is preternatural. In a case, I have just examined, the outer margin of the coronoid, or articulating surface, is to the inside of the trochlear ridge, and the surface, itself, is between that, and the peak of the condyle. The articulating surface of the radius, is placed, where that of the ulna ought to have been, leaving the face of the outer condyle unoccupied. The upper part of the radius, and its head were dead, and surrounded by foetid pus, part of the coronoid process absorbed, the outer condyle was soft, and, ossific matter had been thrown out, in more parts than one. The health had suffered so much, that amputation was performed. Much more frequently, what is called lateral dislocation, is, merely, a modification of the displacement backward. It is generally inward. The outer margin, and surface, of the coronoid process, is placed at the very top of the back of the inner surface of the trochlea. Its front rests on the lower part of the back of the inner condyle, and scarcely any of the face extends inward beyond that, so that the breadth of the joint is not increased. The olecranon is higher, and farther back than usual. The inner side of the head of the radius, is on the outer surface of the projection of the trochlea. Its outer side, is a little more outward than the external ridge of the trochlea. The head is felt farther back than it ought to be, just below the sigmoid cavity, and the face of the external condyle, so far as the radius is con- cerned, is bare. The inner ridge of the trochlea sinks, behind, between the radius and ulna. The fore-arm is semibent, and, in general, slightly prone. The external appearance is much the same, then, with that of the com- mon dislocation, from which it is only to be distinguished, by carefully observing the relation of the parts. One obstacle to reduction arises from the outer surface of the coronoid process, being applied to the inner surface of the trochlea, which resists its being drawn outward to its place. The34f) surfaces, acting against one another, become broader, when the fore-arm is bent than extended, and, consequently, the obstacle is increased by this, which also tightens the posterior part of the capsule. We should, thei'efore, try direct extension, and then aid this, by pressing the ulna outward. A dislocation outward, requires even more injury of the capsule. The joint is a little broader, for the head of the radius is to the outside, and the coronoid processes on the back, of the outer condyle. The degree of twisting of the for e-arm will depend much on the portion of the capsule which is entire. The treatment is the same, but if it do not tighten the back of the capsule, there is not the same objec- tion to bending the fore-arm, for the outer ridge of the trochlea would rather direct the coronoid process inward, and allow the brachieus and biceps to act favourably in drawing the bones right. Dislocation of the head of the radius, backward, is most likely to take place, when the fore-arm is extended, for then it is not in contact with, nor supported by, the face of the condyle, and when a force is directed backward, in a state of great pronation. Even then, much resistance is afforded by the origin of the extensors, particularly the extensor carpi ulnaris. The annular ligament, and capsule, must be torn. The upper part of the interosseous ligament, is either lacerated or stretched, and so is the oblique ligament. The anterior- face of the head, is placed on the posterior mai-gin, of the articulating surface of the condyle. Its inner side, is pressed on the posterior end of the ulnar sigmoid fossa, whilst a rough ridge, on the very upper part of the outside of the shaft of that bone, and the soft parts covering that, are pressed into the hollow of the neck of the radius. The anconeus is pressed a little inward. The fore-arm is semibent, but can often be extended, and it is somewhat prone, not from the direction of the displaced radius, but from the stretching of the prona- tor teres, which may be more or less. This also, together with the state of the upper part of the ligament, prevents the fore-arm being made much more supine. The biceps is stretched, and more in proportion to the degree of pronation.347 The radial nerve, and its branch to the supinator brevis, may be slightly extended. If we trace the shaft upward, the back part of the head of the radius, instead of being in a line with the back part of the condyle, is felt, well defined, farther back, and can be rolled under the finger. The hollow, or deficiency in front, is not always so well made out. Sometimes, extension, with supination, and pressing the head forward, succeeds, but, in general, it is more useful, during extension, and whilst we press the head forward and inward, to make a strong pronation, which rolls the side of the head of the radius, inward, over the ridge, or posterior margin, of the articulating surface of the condyle. This, no doubt, tightens the biceps, but if we once clear the resistance behind, that will tend to bring the bone forward. Should we fail, we may vary the plan, in so far as to keep the fore- arm a little bent, and draw the upper part of the radius backward, as well as the shaft downward. Dislocation forward, is more difficult to produce, as there is greater resistance in that direction. It may be caused by a blow directly from behind, but is most likely to take place, when a force, acting from behind, is combined with great supination. Extreme, or undue supination, cannot be effected without luxation, that is, neither the interosseous ligament, nor the pronators, nor the capsule prevent this, I’or j when all these parts are cut, still, we cannot materially increase supination, without throwing forward, either, the head of the I radius, or the carpal end of the ulna. I In this dislocation, the fore-arm is semibent, and cannot 1 be completely bent. The shaft of the radius is directed I forward, which may give the upper part of the fore-arm, an j appearance of pronation, but the wrist is supine. Rotation I is difficult. A hollowness is perceived behind, below the ^ outer condyle, and the head is felt, though obscurely, for- 'I ward and inward. It rests on the outer fasciculus of the i brachieus, which it may partially raise, and on the outer 4 margin of the coronoid process. This displacement is resisted { by the annular ligament, attachment of the capsule to the s cervix radii, the oblique ligament, and upper part of the348 interosseous. The two first, must be fairly torn, and the two last, if not torn, are stretched to the extent of about an eighth ot an inch, and the tightening continues till about half way down between the two extremities of the radius. Any attempt to increase supination, stretches the interosseous ligament more. The lower part of it is not affected. The supinator brevis and radial nerve are stretched, and the tendon of the biceps cax'ried forward. We reduce the luxa- tion, by pressing the head of the radius outward and backward, at the same time, that we produce strongly pronation, which rolls the head into its place. It is scarcely useful to extend the radius. Children are more liable to dislocation of the radius, than adults, probably from the soft parts being more easily torn. The head of the radius being cartilaginous, for several years, we might expect that the neck should be fi'equently detached from it, simulating luxation, but this does not appear to be the case. As the bones are comparatively pliable, a force, which, in an adult, would px'oduce fracture or dislocation, only bends one or both bones. When the x’adius is bent forward, at the upper part, there is a fulness at that part, and the fore-arm is fixed, in a state of semi-px*onation, fx'om the tightening of the ixitex'osseous ligament. By px’oper pressure, the bone is made straight, and free ixxotioxx restox'ed. Reverting, now, to the soft parts in fx’ont, at the joint, I remark that, at the outer side, the space between the margin of the biceps, axid its tendon, and the supinatox’, is occu- pied by the cephalic vein, and sometixues also by the median cephalic, when that runs xxp xnore parallel than usual, to the former. Both, in that case, but always the cephalic, cover the extex'ixal cutaneous nexwe, and that again lies often on an arterial branch, coming across from under the biceps, and runnimr down on the brachieus. The radial nerve is farther out, and deepex'. The vein here, has no particular branch of nerve on it, and the external cutaneous can only be pxdcked in venesection, by transfixing the vein, which may also wound the artex'y, and produce an aneurismal varix, but this, so far as 1 know, has never happened. At the inside, as has beendescribed, we have the basilic, and median basilic veins. These, lie on the deep aponeurosis, covered by, or involved in, the superficial fascia. Both, but particularly the latter, are traversed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, which may be wounded in venesection, and sometimes this is inevitable. Were it thought proper to divide the injured branch, that is done by a short transverse incision, a very little above the puncture, which, if carried fairly down, across the face of the vein, must cut the branch. How the trunk is to be exposed has already been described. The median basilic, generally at the joint, crosses, more or less obliquely, the course of the artery, which is felt beating below it, and may be wounded, if the vein be transfixed, or it may be opened alone, by the vein slipping aside. When the veins are involved in a firm fascia, they are fixed, but when the fascia is lax, and the connexion almost cellular, they roll under the finger, and if not fixed, and especially if the lancet be at all blunt, the vein is very apt to be pushed aside. Leaving out of the consideration, those varieties which have already been noticed, in the distribution of the arteries, I shall describe the relative situation of the parts at the inside of the arm here. On tiu’ning off the skin and superficial fascia, we turn off with them the subcutaneous veins, and expose the expansion of the aponeurosis from the biceps muscle, and the deep fascia covering the fore-arm. This expansion, (page 339,) which is strong and broad, covers the artery at the joint, and is traversed by the median basilic vein. Cutting across, and raising this expansion, we see, if the deep veins be removed, the artery, close by the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps, and the median nerve a little more inward. Going from without inward, we have, in order, the tendon, the artery, the nerve which has changed the rela- tion it formerly had to the vessel. So far, then, it appears, that the artery, here, may be very easily exposed. But it is ijj quite the contrary, for the venm comites have not been taken ^ into account. These, are formed by the deep radial and f ulnar veins, both of which, of course, are double, the former, i in the most favourable case, unite at the joint, and form the350 outer, the latter, the inner brachial comes, having the artery here between them. But it is rarely that this occurs. Usually, the deep inner ulnar comes, runs up by the inside of the main artery, whilst the outer ulnar, at, or near the bifurcation of the artery, meets the radial veins, to form the outer great comes, which runs up, rather on the face of the artery, at that part, than by its outer margin. Not only is the artery here very generally covered, more or less, by a vein of greater or less size, but it is not unusual, for some inter- lacements to take place, near the part, which renders the exposure of the artery, still more difficult. Just to the inside of the inner comes, is the median nerve, and close by it, on its inside, is the anterior recurrent vein, descending to the deep ulnar vein. To tie the artery, just at the joint, we must make an incision, parallel to the inner margin of the biceps tendon, merely thi-ough the skin. This exposes the median basilic vein, if the distribution be as usual, with perhaps one or more branches of the internal cutaneous nerve traversing it. The vein is generally best put aside, by drawing it inward with a blunt hook. We then have to divide, cautiously, the expansion of aponeurosis connected with the biceps, and a little of the deep fascia, higher than that. We now see, sometimes, but seldom, the artery. The greater inner comes, is most likely to appear, covering or hiding the ai’tery, and having the inner comes beside it, and the median nerve to the inside. By partly raising, and partly turning outward, the outer conies, we detach it from the inner one, which, if large, it may have partially covered, and expose the artery. All this, is, in some cases, comparatively easy, but in others, communications exist between the veins, or smaller ones enter the greater, in such a way as to render it ver}^ difficult to insulate the artery. Even, drawing all the deep veins inward, off, or over the artery, does not certainly expose it, for a deep radial vein, may perhaps be found crossing the artery, a little higher than the joint. Add to these natural difficulties, the effusion of blood, and sometimes matting of the parts, or alterations in the relative position of the artery and veins, which may take place, in S t351 those cases, most likely to require the operation, and we shall come to the conclusion, that it is only to be performed, when there already exists a considerable wound, or when the extensive diffusion of blood, in a case of puncture, renders the exposure of the vessel, at the spot, necessary. If we be to tie the artery, higher, perhaps an inch and a half, or a little more, above the joint, we shall take the margin of the biceps for our guide, and, as in the former case, have to draw inward the median basilic vein. Then, we divide the deep fascia, extending from the biceps, over the artery, &c., but do not require to cut the aponeurotic expansion from its tendon. In all probability, the basilic vein, (brachial) will not yet have joined the artery, which will be found between its two comites, or with one of them rather on it. Its relation to the median nerve, is not always the same. !^The nerve may be to the inside of the artery, or it may be a little behind it. Different species of injury are met with here. The aneurismal varix, as it has been called, is perhaps the most frequent, and the nature and symptoms, of this have been described in the first volume. No operation ought to be performed. From the circumstance just described of one of the comites, very often, lying on the face of the artery, at the bend of the arm, it might be expected that a double varix should not be rai'e. The median basilic is first transfixed, then the comes, and, last of all, the artery is pricked. Although the deep vein must be bound down, by the expan- sion from ,the biceps, and deep fascia, yet, it is not always easy to make a certain diagnosis. But this is of less importance, as the treatment is the same. Varicose aneurism must be rare, for the vein being carried forward by the circumscribed aneurismal sac, and soon lined, more or less thickly, with coagulum, is less likely to have the communi- cation with the artery preserved, than in the former case, or varix. We, indeed, often observe, after emptying the vein in aneurismal varix, that a throbbing tumour remains below it, but this is small, cannot be diminished, and seems to be merely a thickening round the artery. Varicose aneurism is, to all intents and purposes, a false circumscribed3.52 aneurism, and, unlike the varix, requires an operation. No doubt, instances have occurred, where regular and judicious pressure, has restrained the growth, perhaps even effected a cure; but I believe, that most cases, whicli seemed to do well, without an operation, were really, merely, cases of aneurismal varix, with the throbbing thickening, over and around the artery, which I have just mentioned. Instead of being small varicose anem’isms, they were of a very different description. When the aneurismal sac is at all considerable, it is mucli more tense than the varix, for it is bound down by the fascia, and, sometimes, so firmly by the expansion from the biceps, that it is small at that part, and projects more under the thinner fascia, which is higher. I have, in the first volume, given reasons why we should rather tie the artery, where it has been wounded, than high in the arm. But if we do tie above the sac, we should make such moderate pressure on the dilated vein, as will obviate, as far as can be done, the effect of retrograde circulation, or the blood passing still from the sac into the vein, thus preventing coagulation. When the artery alone is wounded, and the blood extensively diffused up the arm, it is much better to enlarge the wound, and tie the artery above and below the puncture, than to apply the ligature hish. But, in circumscribed false aneurism, there is no occasion to depart from the general rule of tying below the origin of the profunda inferior. On removing the skin of the fore-arm, w'e see, in front, covered by aponeurosis, the superficial layer of muscles, the outer margin of which, is formed by the supinator longus, skirted, or rather supported, behind, by the extensores radiales, the brevior seen, on tiu’ning off the longior; the inner, by the flexor ulnaris. Near the joint, or at the upper part of the fore-arm, the supinator forms about a third of the front. It soon meets the pronator, nearly in the median line, and, in the angle between them, is lodged the biceps tendon and radial artery. Passing inward, still at the upper and thick part of the fore-arm, we have, as mentioned, the pronator, then, the flexor radialis, with the tapering belly of the palmaris, covering its inner part, then, we have pait of the353 flexor sublimis, flanked by the flexor ulnaris. The flexor radialis and pronator, have a common origin, and, for a time, the same direction, hut within two inches below the joint, the former overlaps the latter, which gets deeper. About the middle of the arm, we have, at the outside, the narrow part of the supinator, skirted by the extensor i*adialis. Then, going inward, we have the flexor radialis, becoming now narrower and more tendinous, with its ulnar margin almost in the median line, perhaps, a little nearer the radius. From that, to the inner margin, formed by the flexor ulnaris, we have a considerable part of the surface of the flexor sublimis, with the tendon of the palmaris on it, to the ulnar side of the flexor radialis. Sometimes, the palmaris does not rise as described, hut is a thin, tolerably broad, fasciculus of the !, flexor sublimis, only to he distinguished from it, by its inser- 1 tion. At the upper part of the lower third, we have, at the outside, the tendon of the supinator, between which, and that of the flexor radialis, is seen part of the flexor sublimis, in a space, perhaps half an inch broad, whilst, to the inside of that tendon, between it, and the tendon and muscular fibres of the ' flexor ulnaris, in a space less than an inch broad, is seen more of the flexor sublimis, with the tendon of the palmaris. At the wrist, we have, at the root of the thumb, the insertion of the supinator into the radius; then, on a line with the fleshy hall of the thumb, is the tendon of the flexor radialis. At the inside, in a line up from between the little and ring fingers, is the tendon of the flexor ulnaris, wdiilst, in the intermediate space, are those of the flexor sublimis, and that of the palmaris. If, in order to observe the deeper parts, we 1I10W cut through the flexor radialis, palmaris, and pronator, and turn their opposite ends up and down, as well as we can, we see the flexor sublimis, flanked by the supinator longus and flexor ulnaris. If we draw the former outward, we r display the front of the supinator brevis, and can trace the I flexor digitorum sublimis, which rises by two heads; the t innermost, thick and large, from the inner condyle, united to . t the flexor radialis and pronator, hut deeper, being covered 3 1 by them; the outermost, thinner, and deeper, from the root II- 2a.of the coronoicl process, ami from the ratlins at its tubercle, tlownwartl, for some way beyond the insertion of the prona- tor. The two heads meet at an angle, and unite at a little more than an inch below tlie top of tlie radius. The flexor radialis, subliinis, and pronator, are very intimately united at first, rising from a common tendon. If we suppose the first of these, to rise by a tendinous substance, becoming broader, and extending more outward, as it descends in the thick part of the fore-arm, but not covered in the whole of that extent, by its own proper fibres, and next, that the pronator, rising a little higher than the flexor, from the condyle, appropriates the uncovered part of this tendinous sheet, and continues to rise from it, we shall have a tolerably just idea, and may almost consider these two, as one muscle, dividing for different insertions. We cannot separate them higher, than to fully two inches and a half below the joint, and, down to that extent, the common tendon descends. With the under surface of this, the flexor sublimis is also connected, for about two inches down. With regard to the pronator, it still remains to mention, that besides this great origin, there is a separate and small head, rising deeper, by a thin but broad tendon, from the inner margin of the coronoid process, just at the outside of the insertion of the brachieus, covered by the origin of the flexor sublimis, and bounded at the margin, by the profundus. The two heads, till they unite, which is soon, are lined with aponeurosis and cellular sub- stance, forming a very distinct slit, through which the median nerve passes. When they unite, it is by means of tendinous substance, which also connects them, there, with the flexor sublimis. The belly of the pi’onator I’uns downward and outward, to be inserted, by a tendon more than an inch broad, into the radius, about three inches, or three and a half below its top, and thence descends as far as the breadth of the tendon. Removing the flexor sublimis, and the other still more super- ficial muscles, already described, we see the flexor profundus, which was covered by the sublimis, the radial origin of which, separated it from the supinator brevis, and pronator teres.It rises from the coronoid process, where the brachieus is inserted, botli from its root and sides, and from the radial side, front, and inner ridge of the ulna, as fur down as the pronator quadratus; from the interosseous ligament, and even from the ulnar margin of the radius, or at least it is connected with it, from the termination of the supinator brevis, down- ward, to the pronator quadratus. At the outside, and on the face of the radius, there seems to be a distinct, thick, and broad fasciculus of the same muscle, connected with what looks like its outermost tendon. But this has a separate origin and insertion. It is the flexor longus pollicis. It rises from the face, and ulnar side, of the radius from its tubercle, down to the pronator quadratus, covers the front of the radius, and overlaps the flexor profundus to a considerable extent. Altogether it is about three quarters of an inch broad. It is separated from the supinator brevis, by the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, as if by a partition. Lastly, raising the flexor profundus, vve see the pronator quadratus, which begins to rise from the ulna, about two inches and a half above the end of the bone, down to a quarter of an inch of its extremity. It is, therefore, at the ulna, above two inches broad, but it is rather narrower at the radius. When this, and the flexor profundus, are scraped off, we see the inter- osseous ligament, which rises from the ulnar margin of the radius, just below tbe insertion of the oblique ligament, and is inserted into the radial margin of the ulna. It extends down to the very end of the interosseous space, identified there with the junction of the bones, and reflected forward at that junction, both to their face, and also to the margin of the pronator quadratus. It must obviously be deficient, for a small space, at the top, between the neck of the radius and ulna. In this space, is the tendon of the biceps, part of the brachieus, cellular substance, &c.; and if a probe be pressed down here, it will touch, behind, part of the supinator brevis. In the space between the interosseous and oblique ligaments, the arteria interossea passes backward. There is, also, a well defined oval opening in the ligament, a little above the pro- nator quadratus, for the transmission of a division of theS5G anterior interossea. The direction of the fibres, is obliquely downward, from the radius to the ulna. They are strongest from half an inch above the foramen, to a quarter below it, forming there almost a distinct band. On the back part, a band has been described rather higher, running so as to decussate the general fibres, and this has received the name of the posterior, but it is often not to be detected. No degree of either pronation or supination affects the mem- brane, in the natural position of the bones. Looking at the back of the fore-arm, we observe its inner margin, to be formed by the flexor ulnaris, its outer, at the very top, by a strip of the supinator longus, then, almost immediately, by the extensor radialis longior and brevior, the latter, fleshy much farther down, and extending more inward than the former. A little below the condyle, we see between these marginal boundaries, the extensor communis most outward, the extensor carpi ulnaris most inward, and betwixt them, the extensor minimi digiti. These three, can- not be distinctly separated from each other, higher than three inches below the peak of the olecranon. The flexor and extensor ulnaris, are not in contact, but are only connected by a strong sheet of thick aponeurosis, varying in breadth, according to its distance from the olecranon. At fully three inches below that, it is half an inch broad. It covers the flexor digitorum profundus, which rises from the posterior ridge of the ulna, and therefore is covered both by this and the flexor ulnaris. If we look at the fore-arm more in parts, we have, at the very top, the olecranon, the back of which, from its peak down, for three inches, is covered at its radial side, by the anconeus, leaving an inner portion uncovered. Then, at an inch and a half below the peak, the thin origin of the flexor pi'ofundus, is found on the back of the bone. There is, therefore, a part uncovered by muscle, but this becomes narrower, as we descend, till it end in a point. The flexor profundus, from its origin, continues to march with the anconeus, which, again, is bounded at its radial margin by the extensor carpi ulnaris. All these, as well as the unoccupied part of the olecranon, are covered by very357 strong aponeurosis, continuous with the expansion from the triceps, and with that strong broad aponeurosis, which extends between the flexor and extensor ulnaris, binding them to one another, and covering the flexor profundus. Thus, at the condyle, and for a little downward, we have, in succession, a little of the supinator longus, the extensores radiales, extensor digitorum communis, or, beginning a little lower than it, the extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, partly, on the outer side, partly, on the back of the ulna, then, the strong aponeurosis covering the bone and the flexor profundus, lastly, the flexor ulnaris. About the middle of the fore-arm, we have, in succession, the extensor radialis, extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, a strip of aponeurosis, and flexor ulnaris. At about three inches above the wrist, we have, partly, the tendon of the flexor radialis, then, that of the extensor metacarpi pollicis, the very slender tendon of the extensor primi internodii, and still more ulnar, that of the extensor secundi. On the back of the ulna, is that of the extensor ulnaris, and in the inter- mediate space, those of the common extensor and indicator. Turning off the superficial extensors, we find the deep layer to consist, high, on the radius, of the supinator brevis, then lower, of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, these conjointly covering the back of the radius, till within an inch and a half of the end. Between these and the ulna, the interosseous space is filled with the extensores internodiorum pollicis, and extensor indicis. The extensor primi internodii, appears like a lower, deeper, and more ulnar fasciculus of the exten- sor ossis metacarpi, rising in the same way, but not quite so high, and sending its slender tendon just behind (ulnar of), the broader one of the other. The extensor secundi inter- nodii, rises from the back of the ulna, with the extensor indicis, but more radial, and also from the interosseous liga- ment. It is separated from the extensor primi and meta- carpi, sometimes by a septum of fibrous substance, rising as a duplicature from the interosseous ligament, and extending obliquely from the top of the middle third of the ulna, to the end of the radius. Attached to the ulnar margin of this, is the35H extensor indicis, which-also rises from the back and radial margin of the ulna, higher than its middle, by a tendinous strip, and from the ulnar margin of the interosseous liga- ment. The Brachial artery, usually, divides into the radial and ulnar, about half an inch below the bend of the arm, or an inch and a half below a line drawn across the arm, from the top of the peak of the inner condyle. It runs on the brachieus muscle, just by the inside of the biceps tendon, and its course is a very little outward. The Radial artery, at its origin, is either obliquely in front of the ulnar, that is more superficial, or it is to its outside. It runs nearly straight down, inclining a very little outward. Immediately, it crosses the biceps tendon, and then meets the inner margin of the supinator longus, in the tract of which it proceeds toward the wrist, sometimes so very superficial, as to be scarcely covered by that margin, but generally it is a little deeper, being quite hid or covered by it. The course of the artery may be pretty correctly described, by a line drawn from the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps to the radial margin of the flexor radialis at [the wrist. After leaving the biceps tendon, it lies on the supinator brevis, till it meet the prona- tor, having the radial nerve partly behind it, partly to its outside. At first, it is between the supinator longus, on the outer, and the pronator and flexor radialis, on the inner side, but, the pronator stretching outward, as it descends, the artery comes to rest on its tendon, after which, in its pro- gress, it lies on the flexor sublimis, for perhaps half an inch; then, the flexor pollicis, appearing from below that, it rests on it, and that flexor becoming narrower, when it reaches the origin of the pronator quadratus, the artery rests on it, and finally on the face of the end of the radius, by the radial side of the tendon of the flexor radialis. Besides irregular muscular branches, the radial artery, in this course, gives off* only one that is named, till it come to the wrist. It is the recurrens radialis, which rises about a quarter of an inch after the bifurcation. It is as large as a crow quill, and dives down toward the supinator brevis, and then immediately359 winds up by the outside of the biceps tendon on the brachieus, covered by the supinator longus, and having the radial nerve, partly on it, partly to its outside. It joins the spiral artery, and also gives twigs downward, to the extensores carpi radiales. The course of the Ulnar artery, cannot be described by one line. A thread stretched from the radial side of the pisiform bone, directly up to the inside of the coronoid process, is the nearest, but not quite correct. There are two portions of the artery, requiring two lines; one, where it may be easily exposed; another, where it is covered by muscles whicli cannot be separated, and there the course is more oblique. We cannot separate the superficial flexors from one another, higher than to three inches and a half below the peak of the inner condyle. Up to that, the artery is very nearly in the course of the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris, and this is marked by a line from the radial side of its tendon, to the peak of the inner condyle. From that part of the fore-arm, till its origin, the artery runs obliquely outward, and in the course of a line from the margin of the ulna, at that distance below the peak, to the inside of the biceps tendon. The artery, if it come off at the joint, lies first on the brachieus, but if a very little lower, it does not. It then passes down- ward and inward, and a little backward, betw'een the biceps tendon, and the small head of the pronator teres, traversing, for a short way, the tendinous insertion of the supinator brevis. It next, at fully an inch and a half below' the bend of the arm, passes between the tw'o heads, or in the fork, of the origin of the flexor sublimis, or sometimes goes through a part of its substance, to get on the flexor profundus, on which it continues to the wrist, where it passes over the annular ligament. As already mentioned, it, at first, is covered by the united belly of the flexors, till nearly four inches below the condyle. If we trace it dow’n from this, we find it is overlapped by the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris; but less, as we proceed downw'ard. It is also first beneath, then, partly overlapped, but not quite covered by the margin of the flexor sublimis. At nearly an inch and360 three quarters above the pisiform bone, it is found on the flexor profundus, between the sublimis and flexor ulnaris, covered only by the aponeurosis and skin of the fore-arm. In all this tract, it, and its venae comites and ulnar nerve, are flxed on the flexor profundus, by the thin fascia which covers that muscle, and them. Almost immediately, the ulnar artery gives olf a small branch, the anterior recurrent, which runs up on the brachieus, by the inside of the main artery, and innosculates -with the ramus anastomoticus. The posterior, comes off lower than fully an inch below tbe bifurcation, and on the flexor profundus, covered by the small head of the pronator. It winds upward, and a little backward, on the profundus, or in a kind of sulcus, between it and the ulna, at the coronoid process, covered by the sublimis. It next reaches the flexor nlnaris, passes between its origins, and proceeds to the back of the inner condyle, first, by the radial side of the ulnar nerve, and then, having reached the condyle, behind it. It anastomoses with the profunda inferior. Immediately after this branch, the ulnar gives off the interossea, which sinks deeply backward, and after sending up one or two small anterior recurrents around the coronoid process, it gives off' a branch which runs down by the outside of the median nerve, into the flexor sublimis. This sometimes rises directly from the ulnar. At the slit, between the oblique and interosseous ligaments, the interossea dividesinto the anterior and posterior. The first, accompanied, on its radial side, by the interosseous nerve, and covered by the flexor profundus and pollicis, runs down on the face of the interosseous ligament, to very near the upper margin of the pronator quadratus. There it divides; one branch, the smallest, runs down under that muscle, to the front of the wrist; another, larger, passes back through the foramen in the ligament, and descends behind to the wrist. The second appears at the inferior margin of the supinator brevis, and gives off a recurrent branch, which runs up on that muscle, to between the olecranon and outer condyle. It is covei’ed by the anconeus and extensor ulnaris. The inter- ossea, then, continues its course dowitward, on the margin of361 the extensor secuncii internodii pollicis, bounded by the other extensor of the thumb, accompanied by the posterior branch of the radial nerve. Both, are covered by the extensor communis, and pass at the wrist, under the annular ligament. This is the principal muscular artery on the back of the fore-arm. The ulnar gives off in front several irregular branches to the muscles. The veins require no farther description. The subcutaneous Nerves, are. First, a branch given off from the spiral, sometimes as high as the margin of the latissimus dorsi. It winds round behind the bone, between the first and second heads of the triceps, comes down the outside of the arm, by the margin of the triceps and supinator, and then descends on the condyle, on the outer edge of the supinator. Presently, it gets more backward, on the extensor radialis, winding to the back of the arm, and reaching almost to the utmost side of the wrist. It runs farther back than the exter- nal cutaneous. It is called by some, the posterior, or supe- rior, external cutaneous nerve. A smaller division of this, or a separate branch from the spiral, passes out, lower, between the third head of the triceps and supinator, or it perforates the anterior margin of that muscle, goes down, first, on its margin, and then it winds down to the wrist, by the outer margin of the radius and of the cephalic vein. At the condyle it is more inward or forward than the larger branch. Second, The external cutaneous comes out from beneath the biceps, about an inch and a half above the joint, covered by the cephalic vein. It descends by the inner or anterior margin of the supinator longus, therefore not quite in the median line of the fore-arm, between the median and cephalic veins, generally by the inner margin of the former, consequently it is more ulnar, or forward, than the spiral branch. For about the upper third of the fore-arm, it descends on the inner margin of the supinator. Then, it winds a little outward, so as to get on the tendon of the supinator; then, a little above the wrist, it is on that of the extensor metacarpi pollicis, winding to the outside of the root of the thumb. It continues on, by its outer margin, and also3G2 sends off a branch to the back of the hand and fingers. At the wrist, a branch goes off to the ball of the thumb, both muscles and skin, and also to the palm of the hand. Third, the internal cutaneous, about the middle of the arm, or lower, gives off a branch, which runs down by the margin of the biceps, and at the joint, superficially, between the median nerve and basilic vein, and trunk of the internal cutaneous, and down the fore-arm, winding a little inward. A large branch comes off above the joint, and descends on the peak of the inner condyle, winds with the basilic vein to the back of the ulna, and down that side of the fore-arm. The trunk of the nerve, or at least, a large division of it, runs nearer the median line, over the pronator teres, with, or on, the median basilic vein, down the fore-arm. The branches and twiirs of the internal cutaneous nerve, cross, or run more or less on the veins, where we bleed, with the exception of the cephalic. The median cephalic is also comparatively free. Fourth, The continuation of the radial nerve, near the wrist, becomes subcutaneous on the back of the fore-arm. The Radial nerve passes down on the outer condyle, buried deep between the outer fasciculus of the brachieus, and the supinator and extensor longior, both of which cover the nerve, the latter, however, for little more than an inch, as it then begins to taper outward. Higher than the con- dyle, the nerve divides into two; but these cohere, till they reach the lower part of the condyle. Both are crossed by the recurrens radialis, and both, at first, lie on the extensor radialis brevior, and inner margin of the longior. The Superficial branch, as it is called, is anterior to the other, even whilst they cohere. It descends, first, on the head of the radius, then, on the inner margin of the extensor brevior, till it reach the tendon of the pronator, then, at the under margin of this, it lies for a little on the flexor pollicis, then, on the face of the radius, and, lastly, turns out, or backward, from under the tendon of the supinator, about three inches and a half, above the root of the thumb, covered by the cephalic vein. It appears between the tendons of the supin- ator and extensores radiales, and subdivides immediately into i363 two brfiDcli6S) ori6j goes directly down to the side of the root of the thumb, and subdivides into a branch for each side; another, goes by the back of the thumb, and is distributed to the fore and radial side of the mid finger. The radial nerve meets the artery a little below the joint, or about the junction of the flexor radialis and supinator. It continues by the radial side of the artery, but not in contact with it, for half way down the fore-arm, there being a space of a quarter of an inch between them. This branch, then, is a cutaneous nerve. The other, or Deep division, gives off, im- mediately, small branches to the supinator longus and exten- sores radiales, and then it winds back, deeply, on the head of the radius, and the inner surface of the extensor brevior, between it and the supinator brevis, into the upper and outer part of which it enters, along with a small artery from the recurrens radialis, which continues to accompany it in the substance of this muscle. The nerve, winding backward and downward, comes out, behind, at the under margin of the supinator brevis, and attaches itself to the radial margin of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, running between it and the extensor metacarpi pollicis and primi internodii, and having given branches to them, and the extensors of the fingers and extensor ulharis, it sends a long branch, called the posterior interosseus, down, passing under the annular ligament, to the upper part of the back of the hand. The continuation of the posterior interossea, accompanies this, by its ulnar side. The Ulnar nerve winds forward, from behind the condyle to the fore-arm, between the heads of the flexor ulnaris, and then runs down straight to the wrist, on the flexor pro- fundus, covered by the flexor ulnaris, and in a kind of channel between them. The artery, winding a little inward, meets the nerve fully three inches below the joint, and, rather higher than midway down, they are in pretty close contact, the nerve to the ulnar side of the artery. Both pass under the strong aponeurosis, but above, or on the surface of the carpal ligament, by the radial side of the tendon of the flexor ulnaris, the nerve partly to the ulnar side of, partly covered364- by the artery. The nerve, just after passing the condyle, and whilst between the origins of the flexor ulnaris, gives off, at least, two muscular branches; one, long, to the flexor ulnaris, another, to the flexor profundus. Fully three inches above the wrist, a large branch, the dorsal, rises, but remains nearly in contact with the trunk, first on the flexor profundus, then, on the very margin of the pronator quadratus, till about an inch above the end of the ulna, where it passes between the flexor ulnaris and ulna, to become subcutaneous, running down on the margin of the bone, and its styloid process. It immediately divides into two. The smallest and most ante- rior, runs down by the inner margin of the little finger. The other winds more backward and outward, first, on the carpus, and then to the back of the ring finger. The con- tinuation of the ulnar nerve, or palmar division, belongs to the hand. The Median nerve passes down at the elbow joint, by the inside of the artery, connected to the brachieus by a layer of fascia. It, almost immediately, is covered by the great head of the pronator, and passes between it and the small head, at fully an inch and a half below the inner condyle. Then, about a quarter of an inch farther down, it dips between the two heads of the flexor sublimis, though some- times it penetrates its substance, in order immediately to reach the flexor profundus, on which it proceeds to the wrist. There, it passes under the carpal ligament, on the tendons of the profundus, covered by those of the sublimis, which go to the fore and mid finger. At first, the nerve goes down by the inside of the ulnar artery, but not so deep, and separated from it by the little head of the pronator. Proceeding straight down, it passes to the hand, rather nearer the radial, than the ulnar margin of the wrist. The line of the nerve is not straight from the elbow to the wrist, as it, at first, inclines inward, and then runs directly down. A thread placed with one end on the wrist joint, a very little nearer its radial than its ulnar margin, and the other on the face of the inner condyle, will mark the course of the nerve, up to about three inches and a half below the condyle. A line from the inside365 of the biceps terulon, to the ulnar margin of the wrist, marks its track higher. By combining these, we have the course of the nerve. / Two or three inches above the elbow joint, the pronator nerve is detached, but it runs down on the hice of the trunk, not separating from it, till at least an inch below the joint. It enters the pronator muscle, and either sends branches freely to the flexors, or these come off separately from the trunk. When the nerve passes between the heads of the flexor sublimis, it detaches the interosseus, though this can be separated from the back of the nerve, for a little above the joint. It is, for a very short way, on the face, and then runs down by the radial side of the interosseous artery, giving off branches to the flexors of the finger and thumb, and passes with it through the foramen in the interosseous ligament, and down to the back of the wrist. Near the foramen, an anterior division comes off, which descends, covered by the quadratus, to the face of the wrist. About three inches above the wrist, the median gives off’ the superficial palmar branch. This runs down by the radial side of the trunk, and, whilst that passes under the carpal ligament, this becomes superficial, running on the face of the ligament, to the skin of the palm of the hand. Besides these branches, the median, in its course down, gives some to the flexors, and communicates with twigs from the ulnar. The Radial artery maybe exposed and tied in any part of its course, which is in a line from the inside of the biceps tendon, to the face of the os trapezium. From the wrist, till at least four inches upward, the radial nerve is not near it, and it is only accompanied by its venas comites. At the wrist, it lies midway between the lateral tendon, or that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and that of the flexor radialis, covered by the skin and fascia. There, and a handbreadth higher, we cut by the radial margin of the latter tendon, through the superficial fascia, and then expose a deeper layer, under which the artery lies. It is to be separated from the two veins between which it lies. In making the external incision, we shall find a branch of the median vein, a little more outward than the artery, with aSG6 ramus of the external cutaneous nerve, by its ulnar, and one of the radial nerve, on its radial side. In this region, if the flexor radialis and supinator, be a little more distant than usual from each other, the artery is covered only by skin and fascia. In the Middle third of the fore-arm, we take the ulnar margin of the supinator for our guide, or go only a very little inward from its line, which, in this district, is from the outer margin of the tendon of the biceps, to the front of the side of the radius, or the side of the root of the thumb. The median vein, runs nearly in that track with the largest division of the external cutaneous nerve, close by it, generally on its radial margin, if not covered by it. The cephalic vein winds, from behind, to the front of the radius, at about four inches above the wrist, and runs up on the supinator, more or less near its margin, but too much outward to be endanfiered. Avoiding the median vein and the cutaneous nerve, we have, in this district, still another nerve, the super- ficial branch of the radial, to attend to. This is overlapped by the supinator, and when the margin of this, is carefully separated, from its connexion with the flexor radialis, and pressed outward, this nerve is either pressed with it, or, if not, it is seen more outward than the artery, and usually in no danger, if the needle be not pushed from within out- ward, to a very unnecessary extent. At the same time, it must be remembered, that in a few instances, the artery is nearer the nerve, and more superficial. The artery is on the flexor pollicis, covered by a thin layer of fascia, and must be detached from the venae comites. In the Upper third, we still take the supinator for our guide, unless very near the joint indeed. The line of the margin, so high as this, is, however, a little different from the rest, owing to the bulging of its belly. It is traversed by a thread, drawn from the outside of the biceps tendon, to the pisiform bone. The median vein is to the ulnar side of the incision, but a communicating branch between it and the cephalic, is likely to come in the way. The supinator over- laps the artery, and must be pressed outward. The nerve is3C)7 still more covered, and is seen by the margin of the extensores radiales. It does not approach the artery, till about the meet- ino- of the supinator and flexor radialis, and, there, it is a quarter of an inch more outward. Towards the origin of the artery, or very near the joint, we cut along the outer margin of the pronator and flexor radialis, in the line already described, as that of the artery, avoiding the median basilic or median cephalic veins, according as these run more or less obliquely. The artery runs in that cellular substance which hides, or covers, the supinator brevis. The venae comites, are not lateral as farther down, but, obliquely, before and behind. The Ulnar artery, cannot, without great violence to the muscles, be exposed and tied, higher in the fore-arm, than to within about four inches below the peak of the inner condyle. From the wrist, up to that point, it is easily exposed, by cutting along the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris, the line of which is from the I’ront, near the ulnar side, of the pisiform bone, or of the tendon of the muscle, up to the peak of the condyle. Till nearly an inch and three quarters above the os pisiforme, it is found by the radial margin of the tendon, and the ulnar margin of the flexor sublimis, lying on the profundus, between its two veins, and with the ulnar nerve, close by its ulnar side, both covered by a deep layer of fascia. It is, therefore, readily tied here, by separating the ulnaris, from the tendons of the sublimis, going to the little and ring finger. If the tendon of the ulnaris, which is more strictly lateral, than on the front of the ulna, have not been accurately exposed, these may be mistaken for it. The external incision can only divide a small venous branch, going to the median vein. In the middle third, branches, going to the median vein, are still in our way, and so may be a ramus of the internal cutaneous nerve. The line of junction of the flexor ulnai’is and sublimis, is not exactly on the front of the ulna, but rather obliquely toward the side. Separating them from each other, and turning the ulnaris inward, we find the sublimis to be bound by firm fascia, which must be divided,368 before we expose the artery or nerve. The nerve is, as it were, on the margin of the ulna, almost hid between the sublimis and profundus, and on drawing outward the latter, we expose it better, and see the artery to its radial side, with its veins, from which it is to be separated. As the nerve is, in all this track, near the artery, we must be more on our guard, than in tying the radial artery, and, on no account, are we to make a random plunge with the needle, or permit its point to separate from the artery. It should be directed from within, outward, and ought to be blunt. The artery is easily insulated, by raising the fascia from its face, by a pair of forceps, and then, with the end of a probe, separating it from the veins. When we proceed higher, or, to about three inches and a half, or four, below the peak of the condyle, the mus- cles adhere, so that we cannot, without cutting through them, expose the artery, which, if traced upward, is found to be covered by the united mass of flexor radialis, sublimis, and palmaris. But, in casual injuries, such a large wound may have already been made, as, with veiy little enlarge- ment, shall expose the vessel. We must remember, that, here, the nerve is not our guide, for the artery descends toward it, at an angle, from its origin, and they do not meet till about four inches below the peak of the condyle. At the joint, we can expose the artery, by cutting, there, along the radial margin of the pronator. We turn it inward, and then see the end of the brachieus, with the median nerve on it. Pressing inward, the nerve, the artery is seen to its radial side, but a little deeper, and bounded, radi- ally, by the biceps tendon. Its venm comites are oblique. The dissection is rather deep, and not likely to be practised; but in cases of open wounds, it is well to know the rela- tions. Fracture of the radius more frequently occurs, than of both bones, and that of the ulna, alone, is comparatively rare. When the radius is fractured just below the tubercle, the biceps tends to roll the neck outward, as in supination, and369 to tilt it forward; but if the supinator brevis be not torn, that ■will help to keep it down. The proper position, is flexion, with semipronation. In due time, we employ passive motion, to prevent stillness. Of two evils, permanent pronation, would be better than fixed supination. Fracture of the upper part of the ulna, requires much force, or a direct blow to produce it, and, therefore, is likely to be accompanied with considerable extravasation. The anconeus should tend to draw the upper part outward, but, on the other hand, this is resisted by the flexor profundus, which rises high. The brachieus tends to draw the upper part forward, but the strong fleshy origin of the pi'ofundus, helps to brace it down. If both bones be broken about three inches below the end of the olecranon, the brachieus and biceps tend to draw the upper portion forward; but the back part of the supina- tor brevis, and origin of the extensors of the thumb, in so far, counteract this. In both cases, the semibent position is the best. From this point, downward, there is, from the action of the pronator, and the obliquity of the fibres of the flexor pi'ofundus, drawing the ulna toward the radius, and of those of the flexor pollicis, drawing the radius toward the ulna, a tendency to narrow the interosseous space, bringing the broken extremities nearer each other. The fore-arm, therefore, appears rather rounder than formerly, and may also be somewhat bent. The reduction is accomplished, by making the fore-arm supine, which relaxes the extensor muscles, and also, in some degree, the interosseous ligament. It brings the two bones more on a level, whereas, in prona- tion, the radius rolls more obliquely with regard to the ulna, overhanging it. In pronation, the deep muscles, such as the profundus, and flexors of the thumb, are pressed more together in the interosseous space. The bones being reduced, it is certainly useful to press the muscles in that space, by means of a thick compress, guarded by splints, suffi- ciently broad to prevent lateral pressure by the roller. The fore-arm should be kept semiprone, or moderately supine, which is easier to the patient than complete supination. Passive motion, in due time, is to be employed. The same II. 2 B370 treatment is proper, if only one bone be broken. Fracture at the lower part is not attended with farther approximation of the bones, it it be within three quarters of an inch of the end of the radius, for they are there, already, in contact. The length of the fossa, itself, of the radius, for receiving the ulna, is half an inch. Fracture of the radius, very near the wrist, must generally be accompanied with sprain, and, consequently, with swelling. But, besides this, the shaft of the bone is likely to be carried forward, and the hand is thrown a little backward and outward, and turned more or less to the radial side. Hence, there is some depression at the margin of the radius, where it is broken, and a corresponding pi'ojection at the low'er part of the ulna. Transverse fracture very near the end, may exist without much displacement, but the radius is usually broken obliquely, and by causes which, at the same time, force the shaft forward. If the radius be not separated from the ulna, and ride on it, there can be no diminution of the breadth, for the reason already stated. The reduction is accomplished by extension, after which we must not only,, by a splint long enough to comprehend the hand, prevent it from bending backward or forward, but must also so con- trive, as to resist the tendency to turn the hand outward or radially. In childhood, the bones being pliable, are sometimes bent, but that oftener happens to the radius alone. It is usually bent forward, the interosseous ligament is stretched, the bone being arched, and the forearm is rigidly in a state of semi- pronation. The bone is to be pressed into its proper shape. The Wrist joint has a double construction. The radius is articulated with the scaphoides and lunare. The os cunei- forme, which also makes part of the carpal articular arch, slopes more abruptly than the other two, and therefore the ulna, not being longer than the radius, cannot touch it. The intermediate deficiency is supplied by a cartilaginous plate, sent off from the ulnar margin of the articular cartilage of the radius. This, which is called the interarticular cartilage, extends between Uie ulna and cuneiforme, and is attached by371 pliable fibres, to the styloid process of the former, round ■which, as a centre, it plays, or revolves, in the rotation of the radius, with which it is identified. A strong capsule passes down from the radius and ulna to the carpal bones, all round, and consequently that portion which descends to the cuneiforme, is connected with the marofin of the interarticular cartilage. This is strengthened at the sides by additional bands, called the lateral ligaments, which of course lie deep, quite on the capsule. The external, or radiocarpal, rises from the styloid process of the radius, and becoming broader as it descends, is inserted into the side of the scaphoides, and trapezium and general capsule. The internal, rises from the styloid process of the ulna, adheres, in its descent, to part of the margin of the inter- articular cartilage, and goes to the cuneiforme, and even forward to the pisiforme. Transverse bands also go between the two bones, at their extremities, both before and behind. • There are two joints at the wrist. If we cut through the capsule and lateral ligaments, close by the carpal bones, we expose the great joint intended for flexion and extension of the hand. It is lined by synovial membrane, which covers the carpal bones, the cartilaginous extremity of the radius, and the under surface of the interarticular cartilage. The other joint is for i-otation. The upper surface of the interarticular cartilage is covered with synovial membrane, which is reflected over the under surface of the ulna, ascends up on the smooth articulating surface of the ulna, to the top of the sygmoid fossa of the radius, down which it passes, till it reach again the interarticular cartilage. There is, then, no communication between the great and the little carpal articulation. The pisiform bone is articulated to the projecting face of the cuneiform, by a fibrous capsule, which allows of a little motion. The posterior annular ligament is a fibrous band, more than half an inch broad, extending not quite transversely, but slightly downward, from the radius to the ulna. It is covered by the superficial fascia, whilst the deep fascia, or372 aponeurosis of the forearm, is lost in its upper, and that of the hand, proceeds from its lower margin, so that it is not quite well defined. It rises from the styloid process of the radius, and from the ridge on the margin of that bone, for more than half an inch up, and crosses to the extremity of the ulna, and its styloid process, and obliquely round, to the pisiform bone. It is also connected to the cuneiform bone. It is not free, from one end to the other, like the anterior liga- ment, but it adheres to, or rises from, the ridge on the side of the radius, and, in its course to the ulna, it is fixed to a knob, about the middle of the back of the radius. This is slightly hollowed, so that the ligament adheres to its borders, leaving a small channel between them, through which passes the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, which afterwards, in its course outward, crosses obliquely the ten- dons of the extensores carpi. Going, radially, from this knob, we are carried back to the lateral ridge on the radius, and, in the intervening space, we have the tendons of the extensores radiales, the longior, or largest, being outermost, but, both have their own synovial sheaths. We may next trace the ligament outward, from the ridge, so as to stretch over the extensores primi internodii, and ossis metacarpi, each of which has its separate groove. It is connected with the aponeurosis in front, and also with the ext. lateral ligament, and often the ' origin of the abductor pollicis. The portion which extends from the knob to the ulna, first covers, or binds down, the tendons of the extensores diffitorum. It next forms a small channel, for the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti, and still more ulnar, a larger onej for that of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Then, besides being implanted into the ulna, it is identified with the aponeurosis, vvhicli is strong, on the back of the ulna, turns round to the aponeurosis in front, and, also, is connected by dense cellular substance, to the lateral ligament. The anterior carpal ligament is thick, strong, more than half an inch broad, and not much less than an inch long. The one end is firmly attached to the trapezium, and expands over its face, identified at its end, with the capsule of the373 metacarpal bone, and origin of the muscles, of the thumb. The other end is inserted into the cuneiform bone, expands over it, and is identified with the origin of the muscles of the little finger. It also sends a layer, or detachment, upward, to the pisiform bone, which has considerable effect in fixing it, for when this is cut, the bone can be pushed more ulnar, and its capsule is stretched. The ulnar nerve passes in a channel between the main ligament, and this detachment, that is, it is covered by the latter. The upper margin of the ligament is braced, by being connected with the deep aponeu- rosis of the forearm, whilst the under one, is lost in the palmar aponeurosis. On cutting through the ligament, we see that the flexor tendons, median nerve, and ulnar artery, have been passing under it; the two former, at least, in synovial sheaths or bursae. These may be traced in different ways. We may look on them as formed by septa, descending from the inner surface of the ligament, involving and surrounding the ten- dons individually, and connected, beneath, with the face of the capsule of the wrist. But, besides this, we may also trace the fine synovial membrane as covering the capsule, and lining the ligament, and at the margin of the ligament, reflected up around the tendons in the forearm. From this, it is easy to understand the effect of strain, or other causes of inflammation. We have the sheaths or bursae distended with synovia. There can be no swelling in the situation of the ligament, unless, perhaps, slight inflammation of the cellular substance. But, above the superior margin of the ligament, there is often very considerable swelling, and there may also be painful tension at the upper part of the palm of the hand. Fhe twisting of the hand, which sometimes takes place, depends not so much on displacement, effected by the mechanical cause of the sprain, as on the stretching or lacera- tion of the ligament, and channels for the tendons, and the extension of the tendons themselves, whei’eby antagonist muscles are enabled to act more exclusively. The sides of the wrist are each marked, or bounded, by a strong tendon. On the radial side, by that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, which not only is covered by the apo-374. neurosis, but runs in a strong fibrous channel, on tlie side of the radius. On the ulnar side, the tendon is thatof the extensor carpi ulnaris, which may he felt when tense, but cannot be seen till the posterior annular ligament be cut, for it runs in a channel covered by it, in order to get to the upper end of the metacarpal bone, into the margin, and partly the front, of which it is implanted, covered by the abductor minimi digit!. If we take the tendons behind, from the radial side, we find, first, the small one, of the extensor primi internodii, close by the posterior margin of that of the extensor ossis metacarpi. It runs down by the outer, or radial, margin of the bone of the thumb, bound to it by firm aponeurosis. Then, we have the larger tendon of the extensor secundi internodii, crossing those of the radial extensors of the wrist, and running by the inner margin of the back of the thumb. Just behind the tendon of the extensor ossis meta- carpi is that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, going to the outer margin and back of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, and then that of the brevior, going to that of the midfinger, in a line by its radial side. Both are retained in channels, covered by the posterior annular liga- ment, and lined with synovial membrane, and both are crossed by the tendons of the extensor secundi internodii. Next, we have the tendon of the extensor digitorum com- munis; then, that of the minimi digit!; and, lastly, thatof the extensor carpi ulnaris. In the front, if we go from the radial side, we have after the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi, that of the flexor radialis, passing under the carpal ligament, close by the ulnar margin of the trapezium, overhung by its projecting process, and contained in a syn- ovial sheath. It goes deep, to be implanted into the upper end of the metacarpal bone of the fore, and partly of that of the mid finger. Close by it, and deep, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis. Then, the space to the pisiform bone is filled with the flexors of the fingers, (sublimis and profundus,) that of the forefinger lying about three quarters of an inch inward, from the outer margin of the radius. Lastly, the tendon of the flexor ulnaris is implanted into the pisiformbone, by embracing its front like a cap, and also is connected with the origin of the flexor brevis minimi digiti. All these tendons are included in synovial sheaths, or surrounded by the bursae already noticed. If the hand be strongly bent forward, the front, or face of the scaphoides, and lunare, is placed more on the articulating surface of the radius. Ihe posterior part of the capsule is stretched, and so are all the extensor tendons, with the exception of that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The lateral ligaments are scarcely stretched, but the oblique continuation of the posterior annu- lar ligament at the ulna is. If the force be continued, so as to produce dislocation, the lateral ligaments are more or les? torn ; the capsule, if not morbidly lax, must also be lacerated. The radius may be thrown forward, without necessarily being fractured. But, in this position of the hand, it may nlso go backward. Much more depends on the direction of the force in determining the course of the radius, than on the position of the hand, with regard to flexion or extension. When the hand is extended, and much force employed, the capsule is torn in front, the lateral ligaments are stretched or torn; but the oblique continuation of the annular ligament is rather relaxed. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is stretched, which should draw the thumb outward. The flexor tendons resist. The posterior surface of the carpal bones is more on the articulating surface of the radius, the back part of which being forced against the carpus, will resist dislocation, and is likely to be obliquely broken off, unless there be very extensive laceration. If the hand be fixed, and the radius driven strongly backward, it is possible for it to be thrown in that direction, but most cases are forward. In dislocation of the radius forward, the flexor tendons are much stretched, and so must the extensors if the annular ligament be not torn up. The hand cannot be greatly bent back, for the more it is so, the more are the flexors, and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis stretched. If there be exten- sive laceration, the mobility is great. There will be projec- tion before and behind, corresponding to the end of the radius and the carpal bones.376 In the more difficult dislocation of the radius, backward, the same projections, but reversed, will take place. The flexors are much stretched. The extensors of the thumb somewhat, hut not so much as in the former case, the fingers are bent, and the hand slightly extended. The degree to which the hand, in either case, is twisted, will depend much on the extent and direction of the laceration. The I’eduction is accomplished by extension and pressure, with sometimes a little torsion, in a direction reverse from that to which the hand is inclined; afterwards, a splint and roller are to be applied, so as to keep the hand in its proper position. Dupuytren says, that, in all cases of supposed dislocation, the injury is really fracture of the end of the radius, and requires to be treated as such. There is certainly nothing so peculiar in the construction of the wrist joint, as posi- tively to prevent luxation; and, therefore, independent of any actual specimen of the injury, we should not be prepared to admit his sweeping proposition. On the other hand, it must be confessed, that a too ready admission of the frequency of luxation has prevented that careful examination, by dis- section, which could have established the real nature of some reported instances. I believe that, in not a few cases, both oblique fracture, and dislocation, are conjoined. The ulna may be dislocated, especially forward. When the displacement is complete, the hand is in a state, intermediate, between pronation and supination, and, the lower part of the forearm beins: lessened in its diameter, is more rounded. The end of the ulna is felt projecting in front, whilst, there is a hol- low behind, if the swelling be not considerable. The lateral ligament, and implantation of the interarticular cartilage at the styloid process, are torn, as well as the capsule. The quadratus is stretched, or torn. The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, if it do not start from its canal, must be stretched. So is the ulnar end of the posterior annular liga- ment. The posterior end of the articulating surface of the ulna, for the sigmoid hollow of the radius, lies on the side of the face of the radius, and the styloid process on the face of377 the cuneiform bone, but scarcely touching it. The reduction is accomplished by extending the hand, and rather toward the radial side, at the same time that the end of the ulna is pressed into its place. The lacerated interarticular cartilage may be so placed as to oppose reduction. Luxation may also be partial. The hand and fingers are enveloped in a continuation of the superficial fascia of the arm, which forms a glove, more or less firm, and distinct, in different cases. The deep aponeu- rosis of the arm, after being intimately connected, if not identified, with the carpal ligaments, is also extended over the hand, but the palm is more firmly braced, by what is called the palmar aponeurosis, which is not a sheet of equal thickness, but rather consists of strong fasciculi, or bands, united to each other by thinner substance, and near the end of the metacarpal bones, strong fibres are interwoven trans- versely. It is distinct in the palm, but, at the sides, it,is lost in the fascia, covering the muscles of the thumb and little finger. If, near the wrist, we turn off the superficial fascia of the forearm, we find, below it, and, there, exterior to the deep aponeurosis, the tendon of the palmaris longus. This passes down over the carpal ligament, by the ulnar side of the tendon of the flexor radialis, and top of the ball of the thumb, and is implanted on its face, by several strong fibrous detachments, whilst the rest passes on, and is lost in, so as often to seem, by expansion, to form the palmar aponeurosis. This, however, may rather be considered as a continuation under another and stronger form, of the deep aponeurosis of the forearm and carpal ligament; but the tendon acts on the whole fascial covering of the front of the hand, as far as the commencement of the fingers. At the end of each meta- carpal bone, the flexor tendons, which, till then, had been merely enveloped in a synovial sheath, enter a strong fibrous covering. This arises from the cross bands of the palmar aponeurosis, which are found near the end of the palm. A layer, more or less firm, is also then sent down, to be con- nected with the thin fascia, covering the deep or interosseous muscles, and also with the transverse ligaments of the meta-378 carpal bones. From this, the back wall of the sheath is formed, which adheres to the capsule of the joint, but does not pass much farther, the rest of the tract being formed on the periosteum, covei-ed by synovial membrane. The front, again, is formed by the expansion from the cross fibres already noticed. It is strong, and implanted all the way down the phalanges into the sides of the flat groove on their face. The synovial membrane, then, lines the whole of this canal, whether formed by periosteum or fibrous mem- brane, and encloses the tendon; but it does not, in general, communicate with the synovial sheath in the palm, being at the end of the metacarpal bone, reflected from the groove, or canal, to the sheath, thus forming a shut sac. The remaining description of the palmar aponeurosis may now be understood. It not only sends septa, at the end of the meta- carpal bones, down, to be identified with the interosseous fascia, and gives origin, from its transverse fibres, to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, but, at each side of the top of first phalanx it is implanted into the side of the groove, and at the same time into the side of the sheath, consequently, not by abrupt, well defined, tongues or slips. Hence w^e understand the effect of chronic inflammation, or contrac- tion of the aponeurosis, in producing permanent flexion of the fingers, not merely as Dupuytren supposes, by acting on the phalanges, but also on the sheaths of the tendons, and disease may extend more or less down these sheaths. A transverse division of the aponeurosis, even at the end of the metacarpal bone, may not be sufficient in all cases. In some, an additional one, higher in the palm, in others, lower, on the phalanx itself, may be required. The muscles may be divided into those which form the two margins, and those found, w'ith the tendons, in the palm between these. The thickest and strongest muscular margin is at the thumb. There, the most superficial is the abductor pollicis, which rises from the middle of the carpal ligament, but not all the way to the under margin, for there the flexor brevis rises. Its origin extends obliquely outward. Often, a little of the next layer, or flexor ossis metacarpi, projects379 to its outside, %vhilst part of the flexor brevis is always seen on its ulnar side. Taking off the abductor, w'e see the thick flexor ossis metacarpi, which rises from the face of the carpal ligament, much in the same way with the former, but as a deeper layer. It lies on the face, and a little on the radial side of the metacarpal bone. The flexor brevis rises by two heads; one, on the same plane with the last muscle, sometimes not at once distinguished from it, from the lower part of the face of the carpal ligament, and partly from the inner surface of the trapezium; another, and deeper portion, rises from the trapezoides and os magnum. Between these, and overlapped by the superficial portion, runs, in a bursa, or sheath, the tendon of the flexor longus, and, by drawing out- ward this, and the superficial head, and inward the flexor tendons of the fingers, we see better the deep portion, part of which, indeed, is visible without doing so, on the plane of the adductor pollicis. This is traced deep from the ulnar border of the metacarpal bone of the mid-finger, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Though deep in its site, compared to some of the others, yet, it is uncovered by any, from the border of the web between the thumb and fore- finger, for half an inch, up to the margin of the flexor brevis. The posterior muscular layer of the web is seen by turning the hand. It consists of the abductor indicis, which rises by tw’o heads; the outermost, and largest, from the ulnar margin of the os metacarpi pollicis; the other, from that of the fore-finger itself, leaving between them an ii'regular opening for the radial artery. These two muscles, to a cer- tain extent, decussate each other, so that the margin of the w'eb, or fold, is formed near the fore-finger, by the abduc- tor indicis, near the thumb, by the adductor pollicis. The ulnar border of the hand is formed by the abductor minimi digiti, rising from the pisiform bone, carpal liga- ment, and implantation of the flexor ulnaris. Then, in front, looking somewhat like a radial fasciculus of the former, w’e have the flexor rising from the ligament and unciform bone. This, at its origin, forms, at the margin of the carpal ligament, an angle with the flexor brevis pollicis, the two380 divaricating from each other, whilst tl)e palmar aponeurosis expands between them. It is broader at its origin than its insertion, for it tapers in the ulnar direction. Under these, and therefore not seen till they be removed, is the adductor, rising also from the ligament and unciform bone, and inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. A very little of the adductor is seen near the carpal ligament, covering the tendon of the long flexor, but this speedily comes out from below it, and, in its turn, hides that part which is not quite covered by the flexor brevis. From the annular ligament, there passes inward, the thin layer of subcutaneous muscle, called palmaris brevis, expanded on the upper part of the ulnar muscular border. Between these two fleshy borders, in the palm, we have the tendons of the flexores digitorum, sublimes et profundi, with the lumbricales, which, with the bursae, unite them, as it were, in a mass. The tendons of the sublimis are most super- ficial in the palm; but, near the middle of the first phalanx, each splits into two strong tendons, between which that of the profundus appears, and partly lies on these lateral tendons, so that when it is I'aised, it seems to have been in a kind of Sutter. It is from the radial marsin of the tendons of the profundus that the lumbricales rise. Their short slender tendons pass down in front of the transverse ligament, which binds one metacarpal bone to another, and exterior to the fibrous sheath, to be inserted into the radial side of the top of the first phalanx. On cutting through all these tendons, w'e expose the deep hollow on the carpal and metacarpal surface, with the interossei between the bones. These send a delicate tendon, behind the transverse ligament, down the side of the fibrous sheath of the flexor tendon, to be inserted into the back of the ulnar side of the first phalanx, anterior to the insertion of the posterior interossei. The fascia passes off" behind, from the annular ligament, to envelope the hand, and complete the glove behind. The veins and nerves are under, or partly involved in it, whilst it is adherent, by cellular substance, to the synovial sheath of the tendons, so as slightly to keep them together, or connect381 them with one another laterally. Toward the thumb we see its extensors, whilst the back part of the fleshy web between it and the forefinger, is formed by the abductor indicis, run- ning downward and ulnar to the root of the finger, and by a part of the abductor pollicis, seen near the end of the os metacarpi pollicis, running more transversely. Toward the little finger we have its tendon, and between these margins we have those of the other fingers. The posterior interossei, are bound down by a thin fascia, and overlap the margins of the metacarpal bones a little way. The extensor tendons are each enclosed in a synovial sheath, which, at the knuckle, is lost by reflection, up on the tendon, so that this canal does not proceed down the finger. That portion of tendon which runs along the finger, is described as being attached to the bone, merely by loose cellular substance, but, in some in- stances, we observe somewhat the appearance of a synovial bursa. The tendon at each articulation, adheres to the syn- ovial capsule, supplying there the place of fibrous capsule. Its sides and dorsal surface, are identified with the fibrous I expansion which binds down the extensor tendons. For a firm fibrous expansion, connected with the deep anterior fascia and transverse ligaments, rises up from between the metacarpal bones, at their end, and becomes connected with the superficial aponeurosis there, and with the sides of the tendons. It continues down the fingers, attaching the sides ) of the tendons to those of the bones, where it is connected r with the implantation of the anterior sheath. It is also lost, as r was just noticed, in the dorsal surface of the tendons. These ; therefore, are not properly in a fibrous sheath, nor loose, like > those of the flexors, but rather attached at their margins, 1 though not tightly, to the sides of the bones they traverse, and therefore they must act on every part of the phalanx. On ] the last phalanx, the tendon is very thin indeed, and the corium is very near the bone. Under the nail, the bone is covered by a thick, tough, red substance, something like the soft hoof of the horse. This, which" is both vascular and nervous, is considered to be a modification of the corium, and at all events is identified with it. This overlaps a little382 the insertion of the nail, so as to form a sulcus, into which it is implanted, and which, when the nail is pulled off, is seen like a semicircular groove. The epidermis, both at the root and sides, extends a little on the margin of the nail, and at the point of the finger, it is reflected back to the face of the nail, fixing it there, and preventing any thing from getting below it. The point of the finger is made up of dense cel- lular substance, and numerous branches of vessels and nerves. From the connexion of the corium with the nail, and of the aponeurosis, tendon, and periosteum, we can readily under- stand the various effects, both in degree and extent, which may be produced by fretting or inflammation of any one part. In some cases, we have mere superficial inflammation just under the epidermis, and extending from the root, or side, of the nail, up the back of the phalanx. It is marked by heat, smarting, redness, and slight swelling, ending soon in vesication, more or less extensive, containing bloody serum, or sometimes sero-piirulent fluid. It bursts, if not punctured, and the skin below is found red and tender, and festers, like a common blistered part. The cuticle presently dries over it, and then peels off. This is easily managed, and requires little more than time, or a small puncture of the vesication. In others, the inflammation is deeper, and spreads under the nail, or round to the front of the finger, or partly up the back of the phalanx, but still it is at first only skin deep, or exterior to the tendon. It is moi*e frequent on the face than the back of the finger. There is much heat, and considerable pain, very early a feeling of throbbing, and some swelling, so elastic as to ffive rise to the idea that a fluid is contained. A O free incision gives relief, by taking off tension, and procuring a topical discharge of blood. If this has been postponed till matter form, the incision is required to let that out, for it is longer of bursting itself, is apt to spread, and the opening, when it does take place, is small, and often a fungus pro- trudes, or the nail is thrown off*, or the inflammation goes so deep as to affect the periosteum, and destroy the bone, which requires to be removed. If the bone live, and a free dis- charge have been procured, we may hasten the cure by383. touching the fungus with nitrate of silver, and using mode- rate pressure; and if the nail be detaching itself, the separa- tion may be sometimes hastened by scissors, but this is seldom necessary. Matter forming under the nail, which is still so adherent as to confine it, may be let out by scraping tlie nail, so as to get cautiously through it. If it find its way out by the edge, a fungous excrescence is apt to form, kept up by the nail, which ought to be pared, and the fungus touched with nitrate of silver. If the disease spread, to the neighbouring phalanges, incisions should be early made. But such extensive disease generally begins deep, in the fibrous aponeurosis of the tendon, on the last phalanx, or very often it begins in the sheath of the tendon, on the middle phalanx, where the pain is severe, though the swelling may be at first comparatively little. The inflammation spreads along the aponeurosis, so that the hand, wrist, and forearm, swell, and become very tense, as if much matter were con- tained, though, for a time, there be only a little bloody and glary fluid. In some cases, the finger swells, even more than the hand, or, the swelling of the hand subsiding, that of the finger remains. The degree of fever, and the rapidity, as well as extent, of the disease, will greatly depend on the state of the constitution. Early and free incisions are to be employed, and as the sheath of the flexor tendon, is often dis- tended, that must be laid open, whereby glary fluid is eva- cuated. Later, pus is obtained, and if the swelling be exten- sive, we must open the aponeurosis, perhaps in more places than one, and even above the wrist. When the disease begins in the periosteum, the pain is severe, but there is said to be little swelling, which is held as a diagnostic mark. This, however, is not always the case, and such never can be long so, for the superjacent part must, sooner or later, parti- cipate. The periosteum is early raised, or detached, and the bone dies. In no species, is a deep and free incision, to the very bone itself, more useful or morenecessary. These different degiees may be produced by very slight causes, a prick with a pin, or inadvertent, sliglit, laceration of the skin, at the side of the nail, the insinuation of irritating substances under the384. nail, &c. There may also be varied combinations of the inflammation of different parts, or, technically, of the diffe- rent species of whitlow, in different individuals, and in some, the disease has been described as of a malignant nature. The practice has often been empyrical, and therefore of a very opposite nature. When one Anger is affected, pain is often felt also in others, from the communication of nerves, and, thereby, even inflammation may be produced in another Anger. I next attend to the articulations, and first, of the thumb with the trapezium. This is effected by a simple capsule, which admits of more or less motion, in every direction. When the thumb is dislocated, by bending it back, and throwing the upper end of the metacarpal bone forward, we find the back part of the top of that bone lying on the pos- terior half of the articulating surface of the trapezium. The front, if not the greatest part of the capsule, is torn, and, if its outer and inner portion be not lacerated, they must be greatly stretched, and bind the one bone against the other. The muscles of the ball are pressed by the head of the bone, and the tendinous origin of the flexor brevis, from the ulnar side of the trapezium, is stretched. The extensor ossis metacarpi is somewhat stretched, so is the extensor secundi internodii, if it do not start from its channel. The reduction is accomplished by moderate extension, bending the thumb inward, and pressing the head of the metacarpal bone outward. Direct extension cannot succeed, but bending the thumb rolls the bone over the resting point. The facility of reduction is greatest when the capsule is most extensively lacerated. We may, if other means fail, bend the thumb still moi'e back- ward, and draw it in that direction, so as to pull it a little more on the trapezium, and then, still keeping up the exten- sion, bend it forward, so as now to roll the bone into its place. When the metacarpal bone is thrown backward, the relative position is just the reverse. The higher fibres of the flexor brevis may be torn. The manipulation is also to be reversed, whilst we extend. When we find it difficult to reduce, but succeed at last, there is reason to believe that we385 have (lone so, by lacerating more freely tlie capsule, bands of which, may have been fixing one bone against another. The phalanges of the thumb and fingers, are connected by a fibrous capsule, and a lateral ligament at each side. The capsule is considered as deficient on the back part, where its place is supplied by the extensor tendons; at all events, if the capsule exist there, it is identified with the tendon. In dislocation, the lateral ligaments, if not quite torn, tie, by being stretched, the bulging head of the one bone against the neck of the other; and reduction can only be accom- plished, either, by extending, with so much force as to lace- rate completely these bands, or, by bending the finger, so as to roll the one head over the other. The arteries of the hand are the radial and the ulnar. At the wrist, both send off two small branches across, one before, the other behind, which anastomose with each other, and are named, the anterior and posterior, carpal arteries, of their respective trunks. The anterior, passes below the flexor tendons, the dorsal, which is larger, crosses beneath the extensor tendons, about the second row of the carpal bones. About the top of the carpal ligament, or perhaps a little higher, the superficialis volae is given off, which runs directly down, in the line which the trunk has been followinjr. It is bound by fascia, to the face of the ligament, and dips over, or through, the origin of the muscles of the thumb, to join the ulnar arch. An wound, deep enough to touch the front of the ligament here, must divide this branch, whilst the radial artery itself is safe, from having made its turn back- ward. The radial artery passes backward, under the styloid pro- cess of the radius, deep on the capsule and external lateral ligament, and covered by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, in some cases even by that of the extensor radialis longior. It goes, bound by fascia, between the end of the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger, in a separa- tion between the^^o origins of the abductor indicis. It then turns into the palm, very deep, between the abductor pollicis II. 2 c386 and metacarpal bone of the index, on the front of which it rests, and then it crosses the interossei, to form the deep arch, which lies under the flexor tendons, and extends to the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it com- municates with the ulnar artery. This arch, crosses about half an inch below the articulation of the thumb with the trapezium, and, at an average, about two inches and a half above the web, or junction, of the fingers. The branches of the radial artery are very simple. First, we have the two dorsals of the thumb, which come off just when the artery has, turned back, under the extensor ossis metacarpi, and these run along the two margins of the back of the metacarpus and bones of the thumb. Second, from the front of the artery, whilst it is deep between the two metacarpal bones, the magna pollicis is sent off, which runs close by the metacarpal bone, buried between the abductor pollicis and abductor indicis. At the end of the metacarpal bone, it is found just behind the tendon of the long flexor, and soon after this, it divides into two branches, one running along each side of the phalanges. Third, on the metacarpal bone of the forefinger, the radialis indicis is given off, which runs down by the radial side of the forefinger, and also anastomoses with the magna pollicis. But, sometimes it is as large as the con- tinuation of the trunk which forms the arch, and in that case it also sends a large branch, which, at the end of the meta- carpal bone, divides into two, one, for the ulnar side of the forefinger, the other, for the radial side of the mid-finger. Lastly, the continuation of the radial artery, or the deep arch, runs deeply across the metacarpal bones and interossei, in the situation already described, and, we may say, either, that nearly in a line with the unciform bone, it tin ns up by the ulnar side of that bone to join the ulnar, or, that the ulnar artery sends down, in that direction, its communicating branch to join the radial. The deep arch sends down small branches to the interossei, but they do not go to the fingers. The ulnar artery, having given off its carpal branches, passes down on the face of the carpal ligament, close by the387 Vadial margin of the pisiform bone, bound or covered by a firm expansion, already noticed, and then, by the palmaris brevis, and palmar aponeurosis. Generally, just below the pisiform bone, it gives off the communicating branch, which sinks backward, by the radial side of the flexor brevis, along with the deep division of the ulnar nerve. They then run radially between this and the abductor, the artery joining the radial arch. The artery then descends for nearly an inch, pretty directly down, in a line from the radial margin of the pisiform bone, and afterwards winds obliquely outward, to form the superficial arch, as it is called, but often it merely runs obliquely downward and outward, to the space between the fore and midfingers, and all we have for arch is a small continuation toward the ball of the thumb for the skin there, or to join the superficialis volas. This superficial arch some- times runs as high as the deep arch, but, generally, it is half an inch nearer the fingers. At, and above the wrist, the nerve is to the ulnar side of the artery, but at the pisiform bone, the former is often covered by the latter. It first of all sends down, along with the deep division of the ulnar nerve, the communicating branch, which penetrates between the flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti, to join the radial artery. It then proceeds, as the arch, dividing in its course, into four digital arteries, and terminating by anastomising with the superficialis volas and radial branches ; irregular twigs are also given to the lumbricales. The first digital branch, runs down the ulnar side of the little finger, the others, at the commencement of the finger, subdivide into two, one for each side of the finger, running with the digital nerve, covered by aponeurosis. The ulnar side of the index is thus supplied, if the radialis indicis have not been so large as to supply both sides. The fingers are thus plentifully furnished with blood, and, toward the point, the branches on each side anastomose very freely. The veins require no particular notice, as the deep ones accompany the arterial branches, one on each side of the arteries. The superficial ones form on the back of the finger, then between the knuckles, pass up to the back of the hand, and thence, in two large divisions,388 by the back of the wrist. 1 lie back of the liancl is supplied with nerves by, First, the external cutaneous, which, about the middle of the forearm, divides into two. One, goes down by the outer margin of the tendon of the flexor radialis, to the front of the radial side of the wrist, and sometimes to the ball of the thumb. Another, more outward, descends behind the cephalic vein, and either joins the superficial branch of the radial nerve, or also sends branches to the back of the wrist. Second, the superficial branch of the radial nerve, after coming out from behind the tendon of the supinator, about two inches and a half, or in long arms more, above the wrist, divides into two different branches. The anterior, runs on the margin of the fore-arm, directly down by the front of the tendon of the extensor metacarpi pollicis, along the outer side of the thumb, and to the ball. The posterior, runs a little behind the anterior, to the space between the articulation of the metacarpal bones of the thumb and index. It crosses the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii, runs behind it on the abductor indicis, and gives branches to the thumb and fore-finger: other branches also run on the back of the hand, more ulnar. Third, the posterior interosseus runs deep also on the back of the radius, under the annular liga- ment, where it swells like a long ganglion, from which branches almost like a plexus go off to the bursae. If any pass down farther to the back of the hand, they must be very small. The ganglion adheres strongly to the radius, and partly to the capsule. Fourth, the dorsal branch of the ulnar, comes out, perhaps, an inch and a half above the widst, and rather on the side of the ulna, covered by the flexor ulnaris. It, at the end of the ulna, gives off small twigs, which cross the back of the carpus, and immediately split into considerable branches for-the little, the ring, and ulnar side of the mid finger. These run down the sides of the fingers, as posterior digital branches. In front, the median nerve sends off, above the wrist, the superficial palmar, which goes on the face of the carpal ligament to the palm. The anterior interossei are supplied partly by the median, but principally by the ulnar nerve. This last also goes to389 the little finger, and the ulnar margin of the ring finger; the other, and the thumb, are supplied by the median nerve. The ulnar nerve having, at the pisiform bone, given off some twigs, or a distinct branch, to the abductor minimi digiti, divides into the superficial and deep branches. The first is the longest, and immediately subdivides into two rami, one, runs directly down by the margin of the abductor, and over- lapped by it, on the flexor, to supply the little finger; another, goes more outward, under the ulnar arterial arch, to the ulnar side of the ring-finger. The deep branch dips down, crossed by the ulnar artery, at the under margin of the unciform bone, to get beneath the tendinous origin of the abductor. It then winds outward, like an arch, beneath the flexor tendons, across the iiiterossei, supplying these, and terminating in the abductor pollicis. It runs either on, or just by, the upper margin of the deep arterial arch. The median nerve passes under the carpal ligament, close by the trapezium, on the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and overlapped by those of the flexor sublimis. It comes out on the tendon of the flexor indicis, by the radial side of that of the mid-finger. Just before coming out, it begins to subdivide into the digital branches, which are deeper than the ulnar arterial arch, and on a level with the flexor tendons and lumbricales, It gives off five branches, besides twigs, to the muscles of the thumb. Firsthand second, it sends off, when still covered by the carpal ligament, two branches to the thumb. They run first by the ulnar face of the tendon of the long flexor, and, presently, by its two margins, the anterior branch also by the margin of the abductor. These supply both sides of the thumb, all the way to the point. Third, one which runs down by the radial margin of the lumbricalis to the radial side of the fore-finger. Then, one which subdivides for the ulnar margin of the fore, and radial, of the mid-finger. Lastly, one which supplies the other side of the mid, and radial of the rinff-finger. These, like the digital arteries, are placed at the sides of the finger, under the fascial glove, and run to the very point. They are in front of the arteries. 1 he skin of the front of the hand, is supplied by the ulnarS90 and radial nerves, and partly by the external cutaneous. The median, sends off‘, near the wrist, a small branch, called the palmar, which runs by the radial side of the wrist, then, gets more forward, and passes on the carpal ligament, along with the tendon of the palmaris. On this it divides, one branch goes over the ligament, but is soon lost; another goes deeper under it to the muscles of the thumb, particularly the flexor brevis. If either of the arteries be wounded at the wrist, the ends must be tied in the wound already made, or we must enlarge it upward in the direction formerly described. Should the wound be situated on the carpal ligament, it is to be remem- bered that the ulnar artery is there covered by a firm fibrous expansion. If the wound be at the side of the wrist, out- wardly, the radial artery may be injured when it has turned round. It is exposed, there, behind the trapezium and tendon- of the exterior internodii, just above the end of the metacarpal bone, covered by fascia, which must be freely divided. If, however, the wound be not considerable, it may be easier tu tie the artery on the face of the wrist, than to enlarge the wound, and seek for it so deep. In wounds or injuries of the palm, it is always difiScult, and often impossible, even by enlarging the wound, to tie the divided arteries securely or safely. It is much better to tie the ulnar artery at the wrist, which commands the superficial arch, except in so far as that is supplied by the communicating branch, and pressure may generally be safely made to such an extent as controls that. It is only in wounds at the radial third of the hand, or going deep into the palm, that the radial artery requires to be tied. An injury of the magna pollicis, at the ball of the thumb, is generally best managed by tying the artery at the wrist. If spasms or other bad symptoms follow puncture of a nerve, the minute description given, will point out the nerve injured, and the best way of dividing it. The thumb may be amputated, at the articulation with the trapezium, without touching the trunk of the radial artery, if we do not cut beyond the joint. If we remove a finger, along with the metacarpal bone, both arterial arches, as well391 as dio-ital branches of the nerve, must be divided, unless we o can cut from the back of the hand, and save the palm. Even in this case, we must, in removing the metacarpal bone, take care not to separate the adjoining fingers much, as we thereby stretch or lacerate their carpal connexions. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger cannot be entirely removed, without cutting the insertion of the flexor, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. In removing that of the midfinger, the in- sertion of the extensor brevior is cut. Tumours, generally of a fibro-cartilaginous nature, often form on the finger, and usually on its face, or from its side. They may spring either from the periosteum, or from the inside of the bone itself, and in both cases, the surface is more or less absorbed. The flexor tendons are sometimes separat- ed, so as to be placed on each side of the tumour, but they may also be covered by it, and in both cases remain healthy. From the condition of the bone, amputation of the finger is generally necessary, for extirpation cannot be depended on. CHAP. IV. ;OF THE PELVIC REGION. At, and above the brim of the pelvis, there are five parts to be observed. The iliac fossa, and corresponding portion of the brim; the more anterior portion, where the iliacus and psoas pass out; the space between the inner or anterior margin of the muscles, and the symphysis ; behind, the wing of the sacrum, and transverse processes ol the lumbar vertebrae; the pro- montoi'y of the sacrum. In the cavity, we have also five, the symphysis and smooth back of the pubis; the foramen thy- roideum ; the inclined plane of the ischium; the sacro-sciatic392 opening; the sacrum. All that part of the cavity, which is below the reflection of the pelvic fascia, to the bladder, rectum, &c. is concealed. The iliacus occupies and rises from the whole of the iliac fossa. It is bounded by the crest of the ilium, and the mus- cles implanted into or rising from it, and at the back part by the quadratus. It passes out under Poupart’s ligament, filling the space between the superior and inferior spinous processes, covering the top of the rectus, and, itself, partly covered by the sartorius, and with the tensor on its outside. It descends on the outside of the acetabular portion of the bone, and seems as if it employed the tendon of the psoas, which passes over the face of the acetabulum. The psoas is at first sunk between the lumbar vertebrae and ilium, till we come to the brim, on which it scarcely encroaches, for it is directed a little outwai’d. About midway between the sacrum and Poupart’s ligament, it is intimately united to the iliacus, looking like a portion of that muscle doubled outward over itself. The united muscle passes out, with its pubal margin rather less than two inches from the tubercle, that of the psoas being almost half an inch nearer than the iliacus, or not quite three inches from the spine of the ilium. On raising the intestines from the pelvis, we sometimes see the right iliac fossa,covered to a considei'able extent,by thedis- tended caecum, but, generally, that intestine scarcely descends beyond the crest of the ilium. On the left side, the rectum turns down at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and the muscle, for- ward from that, has the sigmoid flexure of the colon resting on it. In the male, the collapsed bladder lies on the face of the rectum. In the female, the uterus is interposed. From the rectum and caecum, forward to Poupart’s ligament, the brim is skirted by the external iliac artery seen through the peri- tonaeum. The vein is to its pubal side, or sometimes partly covered by the artery. Next, if we take a side view, we see under the peritonaeum, the vas deferens which separates from the spermatic vessels at about half an inch from Poupart’s ligament. The former run up more on the face of tlie iliac artery, whilst the latter proceeds obliquely inward on the393 vein, dipping down ovei- the brim, at from an inch to an inch and a half from Poupart. Deep, it meets the ureter and crosses it, the latter going between it and the pelvis. In the female the round ligament ascends out of the pelvis about three quarters of an inch back from Poupart’s ligament, and gets immediately on the vein, on which it continues till it almost reach the superior inguinal aperture. The ovarian vessels cross the external iliac, and go into the pelvis nearly three inches back from Poupart’s ligament, but there is often a difference of more than half an inch on the two sides. At the sacro-iliac symphysis, but not seen till the caecum or rectum be raised, is the ureter, which crosses, first the external, then the internal, iliac artery. In the angle between the ureter and the iliac vessels, we see the obturator vessels and nerve, with the remains of the obliterated hypogastric artery. Lower than the ureter and internal iliac vein, is the plexus of nerves, resting on the pyriformis, but not seen till the rectum be drawn aside, and the peritonaeum and cellular substance be turned off. On the iliac fossa we see several nerves to be presently noticed. If we cautiously remove the peritonaeum from the cavity of the pelvis, and also the lax cellular tissue on its outer sur- face, we expose the pelvic fascia, which can be traced from what is called the great pelvis, down on the walls of the cavity to the outlet. If we separate the bladder from its cellu- lar attachments, we see this fascia reflected up on it, from the bottom of the pelvis, and also partly on the rectum. We may run the finger along the angle of reflection, and thereby ascertain that the fascia passes off at the arch of the pubes, where, strengthened by fibrous substance, it forms two folds going back to the bladder, or rather the upper surface of the prostate gland, which is covered by this fascia. They are called the anterior ligaments. It continues to be reflected from within the rami of the pelvis and ischium, and a little above the tuberosity of that bone and from its spine. When we get so far back as to reach the sacral vessels and nerves, we find it passing over them, and, partly by a continuation of a thin layer with the vesical arteries, and partly by a reflection at394 the side of the rectum, and to the posterior part of the side ot the bladder, we are prevented from sweeping the finger beyond the sacro-sciatic notch. In the female, on removing the peritonaeum, and separating with the finger the cellular connexion of the bladder, we find, as in the male, the fascia attached all the way down to the bottom of the pelvis, and then reflected to the bladder, vagina and rectum, the finger capable of sweeping along the angle of reflection, back to the pelvic vessels and broad liga- ment, where a layer seems to pass in toward the uterus, between the folds of the peritonaeum usually said to form that ligament. From the rectum we can trace the fascia formed on the nerves and vessels, till we are stopped in this direction by the same fold. The cavity of the pelvis, from the brim down to the obtura- tor, or for a space of near three-quarters of an inch, is devoid of muscle, and covered only by peritonaeum and fascia. The Obturator is the highest muscle, and rises as far forward as a little beyond the margin of the foramen, from the whole of the membrane of the foramen and from the plane of the ischium as far back as the notch, and as high as a line from the upper part of the foramen back to the notch. Its fibres are somewhat like a fan, the anterior ones running backward, the posterior a little forward to the'notch. It bounds all the margin of the notch, and the pyriformis passes out behind it. It turns out through the small notch as it is called, and there it is thick, partly muscular and partly tendinous, and as broad as the notch, that is about an inch. The Pyriformis behind, rises by three digitations from the 2d, 3d, and 4th divisions of the sacrum, its origin on the left side being covered by the rectum, on drawing which aside, we see the muscle adhering to the sacrum, and connected also to it at its margin by a fascia. Between the margin of the pyriformis, and the sacro- sciatic ligament is a space nearly half an inch broad, and less than an inch long, for the passage of the vessels and nerves, which we have already seen are covered by fascia. Besides this muscle, we find another of great importance, the Levator ani. If we draw a line from the spine of the ischium, for-395 ward to the inside of the side of the pubis, near its arch, we shall find, in that part, a tendinous band more or less distinct and strong. Its situation is low in the pelvis, its upper margin being fully an inch and a half below the top of the foramen thyroideum, consequently, it only hides or covers the lower part of the obturator, but sometimes it does rise higher. The muscular fibres, of the levator ani, are not seen from the cavity of the pelvis, for it is covered by the fascia lying on the outer surface of the portion I'eflected to the bladdei", &c. If we trace the pelvic fascia down, over the obturator, to this angle of reflection, we shall find that at the line of the origin of the levator, a thin layer passes down on the rest of the obturator between it and the levator, which thus has a layer on both surfaces, and indeed has, besides, a proper thin aponeurosis on its pelvic face. If we cut and dissect off the fascia, as it is reflected to the bladder, &c., we expose the i muscle, and find that it runs backward by the side of the lower part of the bladder and prostate gland, to the rectum in the male, and in the female, by the bladder and vagina. The anterior fibres run downward and backward, on the inner sur- I face of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Those from the .{ spine of the ischium, run downward, and almost directly i inward, to the point of the coccyx. Its insertion and its ^ appearance from the perineum will be afterwards noticed, t Its margin is bounded behind by the coccygeus, a triangular i sheet, going to the coccyx and side of the sacrum. The $ upper margin of that muscle is bounded in its turn by the ^ pyriformis, and covers the upper saci'o-sciatic ligament. On 4 removing the viscera, then, and the pelvic fascia, we find the I floor still defended in the sacro-sciatic interval, and down to k the coccyx, by the pyriformis and coccygeus, and, in what is 0 more properly called the outlet, by the levator ani. The aorta, having the vena cava to its right side, divides B into the two common iliac arteries, sometimes so low as the last, I or so high as the third lumbar vertebra, or from two to three I inches above the sacrum. The vein, divides generally about an inch lower, and often c so much to the side as to have its bifurcation covered by396 the right common iliac artery, and continuing for sometime under it. Each artery runs down by the side of the body of the vertebra, and, on the inside of the psoas muscle at the lower part of the last vertebra, it subdivides into the external and internal iliacs. The external, for some way, continues rather by the side of the psoas, then on it, and partly covers the vein about an inch and a half, or more from Poupart; the artery is on the muscle to the ilial side of the vein, which often overhangs somewhat the brim, and, ultimately, as it passes out, lies on the rim of the pubis and the origin of the pectineus, whilst the artery here, that is, just within Poupart’s ligament, is on the side of the psoas, covering the tendon of the psoas parvus, scarcely, if at all, on the angle between the psoas and pectineus. The relation of the spermatic or ovarian arteries will be more properly considered presently. The epigastric artery comes from the face of the external iliac, almost immediately behind Poupart’s ligament, though sometimes farther back, and mounts by the ilial side of the vas deferens or round ligament. It is accompanied by a vein on each side, or, if there be only one, it is on its pubic side. The circumflexa ilii comes off about the same place from the outer margin of the artery, but sometimes higher. It speedily gets under the iliac fascia, and runs outward parallel to Pou- part’s ligament till near the spine of the ilium, when it gets between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. Its vein, if not double, runs either lower or is covered by it. The obturator sometimes comes off from the iliac; but the more minute consideration of this branch must be delayed. The internal iliac, or hypogastric, turns over the iliac vein, and gets on the face or to the front of its corresponding vein. At the side of the lower margin of the last vertebra it gives off the ilio-lumbal, a large branch, which immediately sub- divides into two: one goes directly backward to the muscle, another outward, both passing beneath the external iliac vein and the psoas magnus. Sometimes it gives a branch down by the side of the sacrum, sending twigs into the foramina. Between it, on each side, and the sacra media, which comes off from the aorta at its bifurcation, is a vein belonging to the lat-397 ter. About an inch and a half farther down, and on the face of the vein, tlie internal iliac gives off the umbilical, a large short stump in the adult, which quickly subdivides into the obtura- tor, vesical, uterine, vaginal, and middle haemorrhoidal, though sometimes these, especially the first, come off separately. From the end of this stump there proceeds, by the side of the bladder, the consolidated remains of the artery, which in the foetus is the main trunk. Just where the umbilical comes ofF, or perhaps a little above it, a very large branch, the Glutea, from the back of the artery, dives, at once, backward and down- ward, between two of the nerves of the sacral plexus, and passes out at the upper margin of the pyriformis. What appears to be the continuation of the artery, is the Ischiatic, which goes down on the nerves and pyriformis, and out by its under margin. The Pudic artery, which passes out with it, comes off sometimes at its origin, but generally from it about an inch above its exit. It is more external or nearer the side of the pelvis than the trunk. These all are either covered by, or involved in, the pelvic fascia, so that although they and the nerves pass out, there is no direct communication between the outside and the inside, that is, the finger cannot pass by their sides either out or in without lacerating a layer of fascia, and hence, if the arteries be wounded externally, and an aneurism be formed, the blood passes not into the pelvis, and if the tumour intrude at all, it must be by carrying the fascia before it. When we peel off the peritonaeum and rectum, we see large veins on the side of the sacrum coming from the fora- mina and sacra media. The abdominal parietes are supplied with nerves, princi- pally, by the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves. The Last Dor- sal is large, runs along the lower margin of the last rib, and is easily seen on removing the peritonaeum. It speedily divides into two branches, one of which runs downward and forward to be lost in the muscles; another runs higher, and more transversly or outwardly, to the quadratus and other muscles behind. It also sends a branch along the crest of the ilium for a little way, when it penetrates the muscles attached there, turns over the crest, and is distributed externally to the in-398 legumentsand fascia, covering the gluteus, tensor, &c. Tliis branch sometimes comes exclusively from the first lumbar nerve, and sometimes from the external cutaneous. The First Lumbar nerve generally divides speedily into two branches. The one, passes through the substance of the psoas, then downward and forward, on the inside of the muscles, to the back part of the crest. It gets between the transversalis and internal oblique, pretty far back, and runs about half an inch above the crest, to be distributed to these muscles. It also often sends a cutaneous branch over the crest. It is called the ilio-lumbar nerve. The other, named the ilio-pubal, runs also to the crest, but keeps along its inside more or less close to it. Before it reach midway along the crest, it is hid under the iliac fascia, and presently gets between the transversalis and internal oblique, to which it gives branches, and the latter of which it pierces about two inches and a half forward from the spine of the ilium, and, covered by the ten- don of the external oblique, it proceeds on the surface of the internal, to meet the upper margin of the cord or round liga- ment, along which it proceeds, and issues out of the inferior aperture, following nearly the course of the superior pillar of the aperture, to be distributed on the pubis, scrotum or labium. Sometimes, a branch of the genito-crural unites near the canal with the nerve just described, and forms a common trunk. The ilio-pubal also sometimes runs more inward on the surface of the ilium, piercing the muscles near the spine, a little above Poupart’s ligament. The second, third, and fourth Lumbar nei'ves, are more decidedly connected by interunion or interlacement, forming the lumbar plexus, whilst the fifth nerve goes to join the sacral plexus. To see the plexus, the situation of which is easily understood from the particular nerves which form it, or indeed the trunks of the nerve, the psoas muscle must be destroyed, for, though some nerves pass through it, more or less obliquely, and some under it, yet, we cannot other- wise see the trunks of the nerves themselves. Whilst a plexus is formed, we still can trace individual branches, more particularly to certain trunks. ^The second lumbar gives399 oft the external cutaneous, which runs down on the iliacus muscle, generally most outwardly, with the exception of the ilio -lumbar. It passes out beneath, or through, Poupart’s li<rament, generally in the space corresponding to that be- tween the superior and inferior spinous processes, about half an inch forward from the former. It sometimes passes out in two divisions. From the second, we have, also, the genito-crural, which runs for some time in the substance of the psoas muscle, then it emerges, and at the last lumbar vertebra is crossed by the ureter, and at the division of the iliacs it separates, some- times into three, but, usually, into two branches. Both of them lie to the ilial side of the artery ; one of them, the largest and most external, enters the inguinal canal, and runs behind the vas deferens, to be distributed on its egress. It has been called the external spermatic. The other, passes out to the groin with the femoral artery. If there be a third division, it is small, and goes to the abdominal muscles or joins the first. The trunk of the second nerve then proceeds behind the psoas to join those of the third and fourth, in order to form the anterior crural nerve, which runs between the psoas and iliacus muscles. From the two last, there comes the obturator nerve, which descends into the cavity of the pelvis to reach the opening in the membrane of the foramen. The ilio-lumbar nerve, can only be seen high, and far back, scarcely, if at all, on the ilium. The ilio-pubal, sometimes runs on the outer margin of the ilium, but more frequently along the crest in the muscles, and therefore not seen. The nerves traversing the iliacus usually are, first and most outward, the external cuta- neous, runningdownward and outward, and, second, the genito- crural, dividing higher or lower into its branches. Besides these, there may be irregular nerves to supply the deficiency of others. The anterior crural, is deeper between the psoas r and iliacus muscles, either not seen till they be separated, or ) only seen near Poupart’s ligament. Along the ilial side of J these, there often runs a small nerve, which gives twigs out- ' ward to the iliacus, and then passes out by the side of the ^ great nerve, to be lost in the rectus cruris.400 The sacral plexus is formed by the three uppermost sacral nerves, and the lumbo-sacral, which is just the fifth lumbar nerve, with an addition from the fourth, and which descends in front of the sacro-iliac symphysis, overhung by the psoas. The nerves forming this plexus are more united into a mass than the lumbar. It is nearly an inch broad, and about an inch and a quarter long. The sacral nerves come off high, from the lumbar region, for, if we open the canal there, and slit up the sheath, we find numerous cords running down in a bundle ; hence, in disease of the sacral nerves we apply issues, or other remedies, over the lumbar vertebrae. From the lumbo-sacral, or sometimes the fourth lumbar, comes off the superior gluteal, which passes out above the pyriformis, to be distributed to the glutei muscles. The largest portion of the plexus, or its continuation, and in the composition of which all the nerves going to it are interested, passes out beneath the pyriformis, as the great sciatic nerve. From the same mass, or, more particularly from the first sacral, comes off the inferior gluteal nerve, which passes with the ischiatic nerve, but by its inner side. It is distributed to the gluteal muscles, and then down the thigh, and to the integu- ment, forming cutaneous nerves. It is therefore likewise named, the little sciatic nerve, and in that case, the inferior gluteal, strictly so called, is described as one of its branches. Fi’om the general mass, or sometimes evidently from the first and second, or second and third sacral, is given off the pudic. A branch from the plexus, follows also nearly the same course with the pudic, but passes out anterior to it, then, turns into the pelvis and is distributed in the obturator internus. The third sacral nerve not only goes to the plexus, but also sends a branch downward and outward to join the fourth, and the united nerve passes between the levator and coccygeus, and then out beneath the lower ligament, and across to the anus, and cellular substance round it. It is the hemorrhoidal nerve, and it is accompanied by a hemorrhoidal branch from the pudic artery. The fifth sacral nerve goes to the coccygeus, &c. The pelvic viscera derive branches from the plexus. The lumbar ganglia lie on the vertebrse at the inner margin401 of the psoas muscle, and communicate with the spinal nerves, by branches as large as a bell-wire. The sympathetic nerve passes into the pelvis, deep, in a hollow, betw'een the psoas muscle and the promontory of the sacrum, so that, in labour, it is not pressed on. The sacral ganglia lie on, or a little to the out- side of, the foramina, by the side of the rectum. If we wish to expose, and tie the external iliac artery, we must attend to its course, which is that of a line from the side of the lumbar vertebrae, or sacro-iliac symphysis, to Poupart’s ligament, at the point where it issues. This varies a little, as shall hereafter be stated; but, in the adult male, in the greatest number of instances, the pubal margin of the artery, is two inches from the tubercle of the pelvis. In the female, the most frequent distance is, an inch and three-quarters. It is evident, that, in making our incision, we must cut, at least, as near to the tubercle, as the artery is, otherwise we cannot easily expose it. On the other hand, if we go too near the tubercle, we interfere with the cord to an unnecessary degree, and disturb the parts near the brim of the pelvis. The incision should be made parallel to Poupart’s ligament, and a quarter, or barely three-eighths, of an inch above it. It should be three inches long in the skin, but it is generally sufficient to make it half an inch less in the muscles ; if, how- ever, it be required, it is easy, afterwards, to enlarge it a little, in the direction found to be most useful. The pubal ex- tremity of the incision should reach to between an inch and a quarter and an inch and a half from the tubercle. The ilial extremity will come more or less near the spine of the ilium, according to the length of Poupart’s ligament. In cutting through the skin and fascia, the superficial epigastric artery and vein must be divided. The former, if large, may be tied before proceeding. The tendon of the external oblique is next to be divided, and gently drawn up, so as to expose the internal, on which the ilio-pubal nerve is seen. This, where the artery is situated, is about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, and, runs downward and forward, to meet the lower margin of the cord at its issuing. It is easily avoided. On the lower part of the internal oblique, there is often seen II. 2 D402 a vein, which comes off, within the muscle, from tlie epigastric, and passes out at its edge, to get to tiie lower margin of the cord. The internal oblique and transversalis, are next to be divided, so far as they have been uncovered. From the point where the artery issues, to the pubal extremity of the incision, the internal oblique is, with the exception of some fibres of the transversalis, the only muscle to be cut. But we have the fascia transversalis to be divided, and this, near the liga- ment, is often strong. This incision exposes the cord, in its course along the canal. Only the under margin of the cord is seen, at least the whole is not uncovered. A consider- able branch from the circumflexa often goes to the muscles, and, unless we keep pretty near Poupart’s ligament, it is cut. By gently drawing up the edge of the divided muscles and the cord, we come to the fascia transversalis which is firm, and often the superior aperture of the inguinal canal well marked. It is to be cut, or rather scratched through, and then we meet the peritonaeum. Exterior to the peritonaeum, or sometimes involved in the fascia transversalis, is the epigastric artery, which, coming off from the inner side of the external iliac, either mounts, at first directly upward, at the pubal margin of the upper aperture of the inguinal canal, or it sweeps a little inward, toward the tubercle, before ascending. It is evident, that, if our incision go nearer to the tubercle than the margin of the iliac artery, which it does, the epigastric, unless it sweep very much inward, must, with its vense comites, be exposed ; we take care, in dividing the fascia transversalis, that it be not injured. It is to be slightly pressed inward. The peritonaeum is now to be gently pushed up, by the finger, from the face of the artery, and, along with it, we raise, in the male, the spermatic vessels, which run close by the outer margin of the artery, or partly on its face ; and also the vas deferens which is on the artery for fully half an inch, and then winds obliquely across the vein, to dip into the pelvis, about an inch back from the ligament. In the female, we raise the round ligament, which, at Poupart’s ligament, is obliquely on the face of the artery, but soon leaves it to get on the vein, and thence into the pelvis, about three-quarters of an inch403 from Poiipart. We do not touch the ovarian artery, unless we go up for two and a half or three inches. I'he artery is now felt under the finger, but not always seen, for it is covered, or traversed, by the circuinflexa vein, w’hich runs outward ; but, besides this, very often, glands, perhaps enlarged, lie on the artery, and hide it for a considerable way up. We must either raise or remove these glands, and, by insulating the artery, and tying it an inch back from the ligament, we avoid the circumflex vein. If we tie it near the ligament, the vein must be drawn down, whilst we insulate the artery. The epigastric vessels, at the same time, are pressed inward. The artery lies at no great depth in the w'ound. Indeed, when the muscles and peritonaeum are drawn up, it appears almost superficial, and, therefore, it is very easily tied. If the in- testines press down the peritonaeum much, it occupies less room to keep it up with flat, pliable retractors, than with the fingers. Elevating the pelvis, may assist us, except in so far as the descent, or protrusion, depends on the action of the abdominal muscles. As the vein lies close by its inside, the blunt needle should be introduced between them, cautiously, and carried outward, and no attempt is to be made to pass it, till the artery be insulated, by slitting up its sheath. We thus avoid, also, injuring the genito-crural nerve, which is not likely to be raised with the peritonaeum. This nerve, which divides, at least, into two branches, is first to the ilial side of the artery, covered, perhaps, by the spermatic vessels. T.he outermost, and largest branch, continues in that relation, and need not be disturbed; but the innermost, or that which passes out with the cord, is generally on the face of the artery, at the spot where it is to be tied. It must, on no account, be included in the ligature; and, therefore, it must either be raised or cut across. T. he ligature does not require to be large; one end is to be cut off, and then the lips of the wound kept together by adhesive plaster. Simple as this operation is, it may be mismanaged, even if the incisions be made correctly. For, if we do not raise the peritonaeum fiom the face of the artery, in the proper direction—namely, towaid the sacro-iliac symphysis, but carry the finger inward,404 we detach that membrane from the vein, and toward the brim of the pelvis. The consequence of tliis is, that, when matter forms, it is apt to insinuate itself under the peritonaeum, down into the cavity of the pelvis. If the epigastric artery be much exposed or separated, it will be right to put a ligature round it, as it might afterwards give way. The common, is much more easily tied than the internal iliac artery. From its origin, about two inches above the promontory of the sacrum, to its subdivision, it, on the left side, either covers the common iliac vein, or the latter pro- jects a little at its inner margin. On the right side, the artery either covers the vein, or the latter projects a little at the outer margin. It is crossed by the artery. Often on the right side, the artery has the vena cava, for a little, on the outer margin, in which case, when the common iliac is given off, that runs down behind its artery. It is a general rule, that the vein is behind, or covered by its artery; or, if not, the projection from beneath is ilial on the right, and pubal on the left side. The space that we can expose, on either side, is about an inch and a half. The ureter descends by the outside of the artery at first, then it gets more on its face, and, just at the division into the two great branches, it turns on the face of the internal iliac, to cross and dip into the pelvis, so that, strictly, no part rests on the external. The superior haemorrhoidal artery, on the left side, runs down partly in front, partly, toward the outer margin of the com- mon, and then in front of the internal iliac artery. It is loose, and must always be turned aside with the peritonaeum. The spermatic vessels go down by the outside of the artery; so do the ovarian, which, like the former, descend by the outer margin of the external iliac, but cross it about an inch and a half from the sacro-iliac symphysis, or sometimes midway between it and Poupart’s ligament. In raising the peritonaeum, in order to insulate the artery, the spermatic, or ovarian, vessels shall most probably be raised with it, and the ureter always is. Such being the relation of the artery, it remains to explain how it is to be exposed. Our object is, to get as directly, and with as little disturbance of parts as possible, to the side405 of the last lumbar vertebrm, or about the sacro-iliac symphysis. This is best accomplished by making an incision through the skin, beginning an inch and a half beyond the spine of the ilium, and fully three-quarters of an inch above the level of the crest. It is to be continued forward, parallel to Pou- part’s ligament, and fully half an inch above it, for three inches and a half. The skin being drawn up, the muscles are to be divided, to the same extent, and fully as distant, from the crest and Poupart’s ligament, as just marked. If the incision be carried nearer the crest, or ligament, we are apt to wound the circumflex artery. I need not say that the muscles increase in thickness as we proceed backward. The fascia transversalis is more distinct as we proceed forward^ and sometimes is very strong. It is to be divided, and the peritonaeum gently and cautiously raised from the iliac and psoas muscles, in a direction toward the sacro-iliac sym- physis. On the right side, if we raise it much in a direction farther up, and more toward the top of the crest, we raise the coecum with it. The front of the artery is about four inches and a quarter, in from the spine of the ilium, and a little higher than it. If the peritonaeal bag be pressed down, we must have it kept up by the broad retractor and position. The sheath of the artery is now to be cautiously torn, or opened by dissecting forceps, guided by the finger; or we employ the nail, or the end of a director. It is seldom safe to use a sharp instrument. The finger, aided, perhaps, occasionally, by a blunt hook and director, is to be employed to insulate the artery from the vein, the relation of which, on the two sides has been pointed out; and, indeed, in most cases, we from first to last, trust chiefly to the finger. The ligature is next to be applied and tied, as described by writers on surgery. To tie the internal iliac artery is much more difficult and dangerous, more especially from its relation to the vein, which is the same on both sides. The external iliac vein comes out from between the external and internal iliac arteries, pretty firmly attached to outer surface of the latter. The artery dips down into the pelvis, covering the internal iliac vein, which lies in front of it, sometimes a little more outward, but406 oftener, as it descends, a little more inward. It adheres firmly to it. It is crossed by the ureter, but this is easily raised. It is about the same distance from the spine of the ilium as the common iliac, but not so high; it is more directly in, and is touched by pressing the finger down at the sacro-iliac symphysis. The trunk of the artery itself is not an inch long, for, within that distance from its origin, it subdivides into its branches. The steps of the operation are the same as for the common iliac artery, only the incision may require to be a very little longer, and we direct the finger rather lower, seek- ing for the front of the sacro-iliac symphysis. We have not an inch of the artery to work on ; and it adheres to the face of the external iliac vein, and still more firmly to the internal, which lies to its outside, or is in a manner covered by it. In this and the former operation, we discover and distinguish the artery both by its feel and pulsation, and also by knowing its situation. No one, then, would attempt to tie this artery ill preference to the common iliac, were it not that in the latter case the supply of blood to the thigh and leg is more curtailed. Long slender fingers, with a dexterity in using blunt instruments in a deep cavity, are requisites, first, for the safe insulation of the artery, and then for conveying the liga- ture round it and tying it;—much is to be done by digital work.* There are some large arteries exterior to the pelvis, which, if punctured so as to produce false aneurism, cannot be exposed without an operation, so severe, that in general it is better to tie the internal iliac. But in open or lacerated wounds it may be requisite to secure them where they are divided; and this may be facilitated by knowing their relations. Should, how- ever, an incision be required, I have only to remark that this is to be made in the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus, and if we can separate between two fasciculi of the muscle so much the better, for it is very vascular. The course is obliquely downward and forward. • Some prefer opening at once the abdominal cavity, considering that this is less dangerous than tlic extensive operation of the peritomeura, necessary in the other operation.4<07 The Glutea comes out at the upper part of the notch, a little forward, in an obtuse angle, formed by the sweep of the bone, or the end of that line which runs up from the spine of the ischium. The artery is large, and whenever it appears at the notch, it subdivides into muscular branches. The stump, or trunk, issues about two inches forward from the inferior pos- terior spinous process of the ilium, and fully four inches below the crest of that bone. But it is not necessary to be minute in measurement, for, if the finger be directed to the upper part of the notch, and forward to where it begins to sweep down, it must touch the artery. The vein is lower, and a little farther back, and deeper : a branch goes forward across the artery. The nerve is still lower, or sometimes covered by the artery, and this makes it dangerous to secure the artery by a random stroke of the needle. Before the trunk appears the vein is below and behind it, interposed between it and the great ischiatic nerve. We must be sure that we really tie the artery, and not merely an expansion of fibrin from it. Whilst the Glutea comes outat the upper, the Ischiatic issues at the under margin of the pyriformis. If a line be drawn di- rectly back from the top of the trochanter to the extent of three inches and a half, the artery will be found at that point, or, it is three and a quarter, up from the end of the tuberosity, and rather more than an inch forward, from the side of the sacrum. The great sciatic nerve lies before it, and the little sciatic or inferior gluteal is between them. This last nerve accom- panies the artery in its divisions. The vein is behind, and deeper than the artery. If the finger be placed at the under part of the notch, a little before the point of the spine of the ischium, or up from its root, it touches the artery, more of which can be displayed if the pyriformis be pressed up. The Pudic artery issues with the ischiatic, which, along with its vein, covers or obliquely crosses it, and also here sends one, or sometimes two, pretty large branches, the coccygeal, backward across it. There is not altogether a length of half an inch between the emerging of the artery and Its getting under the sacro-sciatic ligament; and even where it is not covered by the ischiatic, it is so close to it, in front.408 with its nerve, that it not only at first is difficult to say which is wounded, but in securing it, attention must be paid to its insulation, and also to avoid the coccygeal branch. It issues more backward than the ischiatic, and more obliquely in that direction, whilst the former goes downward, or a little for- ward. The pudic nerve lies farther back than the arteiy, and the vein is covered by the artery. The pudic artery is on the spine, about two inches and three-quarters above the end of the tuberosity, and in a line back from the top of the troch- anter. It has been proposed, in cases of bleeding from the penis, to compress the artery on the spine, but this must always be uncertain, and can only be done, in any case, before it get beneath the ligament which defends it. In cases whei’e false aneurism has been punctured by mistake, as an abcess, it has unjustly been alleged that the operator wounded the artery, and caused the hemorrhage. A mus- cular branch may be cut, but if a common lancet have been employed, no trunk could be touched. The gluteus itself is, in ordinary subjects, near an inch thick; and granting that the disease were at first an abcess, the muscle must be raised from the issue of the vessel. Connected with this subject, I may notice ischiatic hernia, which can protrude at either margin of the pyriformis, but most likely at the upper, along with the gluteal arteiy. The neck of the sac may be situated five inches higher than the inferior margin of the gluteus maximus. If it protrude at the inferior margin, it is an inch less. Were an operation necessary, the division of the stricture should be made for- ward. Before proceeding to the lower part of the pelvis and penis, I merely notice the foramen thyroideum, and the relation of hernia thei'e. There is, properly speaking, no foramen, for a fascia covers the opening, and the vessels and nerves fill it. But when these are removed, we then see the size and direction of the opening. It is about half an inch long, but not quite so much broad at the broadest part. It is rather oval, and the long diameter is directed downward and backward. Its under margin is an inch below the brim409 of the pelvis. The relation of the nerve and vessels has already been noticed. When hernia takes place, it is most likely that the intestines shall pass out above the vessels and nerve. The sac issues about an inch and a half below the tubercle, but fully half an inch more outward. It rests on the obturator externus, between the surfaces of the pec- tineus and triceps longus, so deep, that its neck is an inch and a half from the margin of these muscles. The circumflex vein crosses below it, and sends up two large branches, one before, another behind it, along with corresponding arterial ramuli. This variety of hernia is rare, and so difficult to detect, that I believe most frequently it has not been discovered till after death. If an operation were necessary, the easiest way to expose the sac would be, to cut from a point half an inch out from the tubercle, and a little below it, downward and outward for three inches, but not so much outward as to come on the vena saphena. The fascia being divided, the line between the pectineus and triceps longus may be dis- covered, and these muscles separated so as to expose the sac, which is then to be opened. But it is difficult to say in what direction the stricture should be divided. If we attended merely to the obturator vessels before they pass out, we should cut inward, but if we look at the veins and arterial rami just described as being external, we must see that there is a hazard in cutting in any direction. If we can see the vein on the pubal side of the sac, and draw it and its corre- sponding artery inward, that will be the best direction. - At the arch of the pubis a thick, strong ligament) fully a quarter of an inch broad, stretches across, and fills up the angle. It is called the pubic ligament. From this there descends a fascia, which is very distinct to a certain distance from the ligament, where it becomes thinner. It is generally well marked to about three-eighths of an inch below the liga- ment, where there is a margin felt, whence the thinner and moie indistinct continuation descends all the way to the anus. But there is great variety in this respect, for whilst in some it passes down, without alteration in thickness, for an inch, or410 even to the rectum, in others it ceases to be distinct a quarter of an inch below the ligament. From its shape, it has been called the Triangular Ligament, but from its texture, it should rather be called Triangular Fascia; yet even this name is per- haps not strictly correct, for it is not an entire fascia. If, after separating freely and fully the erector from the acceler- ator, we press the finger upward in the wound, we feel the margin of this fascia, which is also marked generally by a vessel traversing it. If we run the finger farther up, toward , the pubic ligament, we feel that there seems a slit near that, or, in other words, that we come, first, to a broad firm band j of fascia, stretching across, then, to a more yielding part. It I is through this slit that the dorsal vein of the penis enters the pelvis. This fascial expansion in a manner divides the external from the internal muscles, forming a ground-work on which the former rest, and on which the canal of the urethra is placed, and through which it passes after leaving the bulb. To understand the formation of the fascia, I observe, that it consists of two layers, the external traced from the outside, the internal from the inside of the pelvis. If we examine the symphysis pubis, we find a fibrous substance covering it, w’hich J can be traced down behind the penis, over the ligament, to j this triangular substance; we should therefore say that it formed it. But if we examine the crura penis and the urethra, 1 we find each of these covered by a fibrous sheath, but the fibres of one are connected with those of another. At the angle where the crura divaricate, a fold of the fibrous en- velope of the urethra passes off to the pubis, forming a sus- pensory or connecting band. All these parts being continuous, we may trace the outer layer of the triangular fascia either from this suspensory, or from the crura, or from the fibrous covering of the symphysis. The inner layer is formed not by the common pelvic fascia, but by a deeper fibrous layer, adherent to the inside of the symphysis and rami. The levator ani rests on this, and it is essential to observe, that this layer not only extends down on the outer surface of that muscle, more or less distinctly, all the way to the anus, tending thus to411 render the margin of the triangular fascia less definite, but it also sends a lamina backward over the urethra to the prostate gland. At page 393, I have mentioned, that the proper pelvic fascia is reflected to the bladder at the sides, and also in front, where it forms two duplicatures, called the anterior ligaments. These are often found to be strengthened, within, by similar folds from the fibrous layer just noticed. The pelvic fascia not only covers the obturator internus, and the levator ani (viewed from the pelvis), to the angle of reflection, but a thin layer passes down between these muscles, and is indistinctly continued, on all the inner surface of the levator to the anus. If we introduce the finger between the obturator and levator, and run it forward to the anterior margin of these, we find it stopt by a reflection of thin layer from the one to the other. Farther, if we confine our view to the pelvic fascia, we find it reflected as described at page 393, and if we peel it off at the pubis, we exhibit the inner layer or surface of the tri- angular fascia. It is of much importance to understand how the prostate gland is invested, and we may trace its covering in different ways. If we proceed from the side, we find, that whilst the pelvic fascia is reflected at the vesical end of the gland, or neck of the bladder, up on the bladder as vesical fascia, a layer, at the same spot, passes off in a reversed direc- tion to go over the gland. This gives the best practical idea of the covering, for we see that the whole gland may be cut, and yet the wound does not enter the cavity of the abdomen, or even reach the peritonseum, the angle of reflection of the fascia remaining intact. But as reflections of fascia pass also from the pubis, and likewise from the triangular fascia, to the gland, we may trace the covering of the gland if we please from them. But do as we will, let it be remembered, that there is one fascial covering to the gland, connected or iden- tified with one reflection, as much as with another. The pelvic fascia, when it gets so far back as the rectum, becomes thinner, but it is, in good subjects, seen reflected from the rectum to the bladder, at the upper part of the prostate gland, under the peri- tonaeum. We also find, that at the under or urethral extremity of the gland, it is reflected down on the extremity of rectum.412 Thus, in these well-marked cases, there might be said to be a circumscribed cavity between the rectum and gland, for a thin layer of fascia lines this. But they are really connected by cellular substance. Collection of matter may, however, take place here. The Urethra passes down on the outer surface of the tri- angular fascia, and turns in through it, when it, under the name of membranous portion, proceeds to the prostate gland. If we introduce a staff, and press from within the pelvis, at the pubis, we feel it through the pelvic fascia and two layers of triangular fascia; and if w'e go a little more backward, nearer the gland, we feel it under the pelvic fascia. The extent to which we can thus feel the staff, is, from the margin of the ligament to the gland, about five-eighths of an inch. The urethra passes tlu'ough the triangular fascia, about half an inch below the margin of the pubic ligament. The distance at which the urethra passes above the margin of the fascia, varies according to its depth. Sometimes it is close by the margin, sometimes nearly half an inch above it, but it is seldom so much. An expansion, or reflection of the inner layer, passes on with it to the prostate gland, on which it is lost, identifying itself with the reflection from the pelvic fascia. The canal of the urethra is thus fixed, and must main- tain a definite position. From the account given, it appears, that if we first peel off the peritonaeum, and then dissect or remove the pelvic fascia, at, and between the anterior ligaments, we should, just below the pubic ligament, expose the triangular fascia with the urethra on its outer surface, and then, near the prostate gland, we should find the membranous portion after it had pierced the fascia. But this is not the case, for I next re- mark, that under the reflection of the pelvic fascia, seen by dissecting it off, we find some blood-vessels, particularly veins, lying on the inside of the triangular fascia, and passing by the side of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. But besides these, we observe muscular fibres extending back from the arch of the pubis on the upper surface of the urethra to the prostate gland. These we also find, passing down by the sides413 of the urethra to its under surface, so that what has been called the membranous portion of the urethra, is really surrounded with muscular fibres, some, going distinctly from before, back- ward, so as to draw forw'ard the gland a little, or tend to shorten the urethra; others round it, supporting it like a sling. These muscular fibres have been variously described, some holding them to be merely anterior fibres of the levator ani, others, as separated from it by a thin fascia, or by veins ; and Mr. Guthrie has represented them as forming a pretty broad sheet of muscle, between the layers of the triangular liga- ment. Mr. Wilson has described them as a kind of sling round the urethra. The truth is, that they are sometimes so indistinct, as scarcely to be discovered, especially, if the sub- ject be not perfectly recent. But, when distinct, I believe they will be found to correspond to the account just given. These fibres go back to the gland, and may even, in some cases, be traced on it. The levator ani goes down close by the sides of the prostate gland, connected to it by a thin layer of fascia and cellular substance. Having seen how the pelvis is every where shut up within, by reflection of fascia, and how the prostate gland is fixed in its place, let us next examine the dissection from the peri- naeum. This space, extending from the scrotum to the anus, measures, in the adult, about two inches. The superficial fascia is continuous with that of the thighs and abdomen. This also covers the scrotum and penis. It envelops the latter completely, passing on within the prepuce, to be reflected at its margin, and lost in the corona. From the penis, it is traced as a bag over the scrotum, and thence to the perinseum, and laterally to the thigh. ^When urine escapes, by destruc- tion of the membranous part of the urethra, it is confined within this, and directed not only to the scrotum, which it distends, but also to the groin, &c. Removing this superficial fascia from the perinaeum, we find a deeper layer adherent to the muscles, affording a covering to each, and sending thin septa between them, down even to the triangular fascia and its prolongations. Clearing off this deep fascia, we expose certain distinct4U muscles in perinseo. But in doing so, we remove one thin circular muscle, just under the skin, involved in the superfi- cial fascia itself—namely, the external sphincter. I’his is about half an inch broad, sometimes more. It partly rests on the accelerator, at the end of the bulb, and extends laterally to the erectors, so that it connects these. It also, at the anus, is identified with the lower margin of the internal sphincter. The Accelerator rises by a tendinous origin, from the inside of the crura at their junction, and also from the proper sus- pensory fold of the urethra. It continues to rise all the way down from the triangular fascia, to the point where the urethra enters. It is spread over the uretlira, and embraces its bulb, turning in beneath it, and supporting it like a sling. Fre- quently, it extends outward and backward to be connected with the root of the ramus of the ischium; or this portion, if more separated, has been described as the transversalis perenaei alter. A layer of the deep fascia of the perinaeum covers the muscle, and fixes it better to the triangular fascia. If we dissect off the muscle, we do not leave the urethra or its bulb loose, for a thin layer passes from the triangular fascia over these, and under the muscle. Both the canal of the urethra, then, and its bulb, are fixed. The urethra is surrounded by its spongy substance till it pass through the triangular fascia, and when the accelerator is removed, is about half an inch in diameter. When the canal turns in, the spongy substance expands like a bulb, and descends toward the anus, ending about fully five-eighths of an inch above the orifice. It is from half an inch to three-quarters long, and generally about one broad, if covered by the accelerator. If we next cut through the suspensory band, and detach the urethra in its course downward, we find that it has been con- nected, all the way, to the triangular fascia, as was formerly explained, and that it has been lodged in a hollow between the two crura. This is more than half an inch deep, smooth, and formed by the outer layer of the triangular fascia. The Corpora cavernosa rise from the margin and inner sur- face of the rami of the pubis and ischium, so that they are on4J5 a level with the outer surface of the bone. They begin a little above the end of the bulb of the urethra, and are nearly an inch and a quarter long before they meet. The erector rises lower from the margin of the ramus by tendino-mus- cular fibres. These, as they go upward, are thin and tendinous at the ramus, the muscular part being in front, and also wind- ing round the corpus cavernosus, and down to the triangular fascia, and its continuation, and to the inner margin of the ramus, thus inclosing that part of the corpus which is not in absolute contact with the bone, as in a sheath. It overlaps somewhat the accelerator, which cannot be fully seen till it be drawn outward. The two muscles are in contact, therefore, as far as the accelerator goes; but the erector extends a little farther back. The angle, or vacancy, between the rounded part of the former and the continuation of the latter, is filled b}^ the oblique muscle, called transversalis perinaei, which is really an adjunct to the accelerator, steadying its termina- tion, and enabling it to contract more efficiently on the urethra. At, or just behind the origin of the erector, not far from the tuberosity, the transversalis perinaei arises, and passes obliquely forward to the bulb, meeting there with the one from the opposite side, and with the accelerator, in a kind of tendinous point, and covered by, as well as connected with, the anterior margin of the sphincter. It sometimes goes more directly across, but generally it lies over the strip of the accelerator, going back to the ischium, and often looks more like a superficial fasciculus of that muscle, than a distinct one. It is embedded in fat, and lies in an angular mass of fat, which leads me next to remark, that, on removing the perinaeal fascia, we find a triangular space, formed by the accelerator on the one side, and the erector and ramus on the other, whilst the base is to be placed between the tuberosity and the anus. The angle, or anterior extremity, is made larger, and more dis- tinct, by separating the accelerator from the erector. This is not diffused, but circumscribed. It is covered by the superficial fascia, and, when we remove this, and pick out all the fat and cellular substance, we come to the levator,416 covered by a deep fascia, that, at the tuberosity, is found to be reflected outward, on tlie gluteus. In short, when we make a clean dissection, we find the muscle below, and the end of the rectum covered by a fascia, forming the floor of this pit, and, by its adhesion to the ramus and inside of the tuberosity, shuting up the pelvis there, or fixing the levator to the bone. We may cut this, and then we can trace a layer going up between the levator and the obturator. It is into this pit that we cut in the operation for lithotomy, and it is here that we find some important arterial branches. Having cut the transversalis penis, and exposed the Levator, as far as it can be done, by removing the fat, we find, that it is every where spread on the face and sides of the rec- tum, adhering to it, and hiding it. But, by introducing a finger into the gut, we find that it is immediately behind the shelving muscular sheet, and must be opened, if that be rashly divided; for it bulges forward, and really occupies, though deeply, a part of the perinaeal region. If the urethra be cut off, we find the muscle covered, toward the pubis, by the triangular fascia, and, toward the anus, by the continuation of that already noticed. The two levatores meet in the me- dian line, below the margin of the triangular fascia, whilst higher they divaricate, and, in the intervening space, the urethra enters. At the sides, or ramus, we find the muscle attached to the bone by fascia, which must be cut before we can get the finger up between it and the obturator. In the course of the erector, it is separated from it merely by the triangular fascia, and its continuation, and both being attached to this common medium, they may be said to be connected. Pressing the finger upward, on the face of the muscle, we feel the border of the triangular fascia; and, if a staff be in the urethra, we feel it when it is passing into the pelvis, but, beyond that, it is indistinct, from the intervention of the muscle. If we now carefully detach the muscle, both fi’om the ramus and at the triangular ligament, and from its adhesion to the bulb, which rests on, and is attached to it, still keeping in417 the staff, we expose and feel the membranous part of the urethra, surrounded by some cellular substance, and the mus- cular fibres, already described. In its natural state, neither stretched nor detached fi'om its connexion, it is about three- eighths of/an inch long. It is described as being longer, perhaps nearly an inch; but then the parts are more sepa- rated, and the measurement is taken, not from the triangular fascia, but the bulb of the urethra. We also find, at the lower surface of that portion, just within the levator, a little behind the bulb, and before the prostate gland, two small glands, one on each side, which open, by ducts, into the urethra. They are larger than coriander seeds, and are always covered by the levator, unless in those cases where the muscles, from the opposite sides, are not properly connected in the median line. Removing more completely the levator, we see the prostate gland. In doing this, we ascertain that the muscle not only is connected to the side of the gland, but, as a sling in perineo, supports it and the membranous part of the urethra. The -gland, which has, in shape, been compared to a chestnut, varies in size, being sometimes, at the sides, an inch, at other times, an inch and three-quarters long. It is usually an inch and an eighth long at the sides, and an inch in the median line. Its breadth varies from three-fourths to one and five- eighths of an inch. Usually, at the broadest part, it is one inch and a fourth ; but, more frequentl}', a little above rather than under that. It is about three-fourths of an inch thick ; but, occasionally, it is seven-eighths. From the side of the pros- tatic portion of the urethra, to the surface of the side of the gland, is from one-half to five-eighths of an inch. In its natural state, then, the gland is broader than it is long. i\s it extends a little higher at the sides than at the middle, it has been divided into two lobes, one on each side of the median line. Between these, at the upper part, there is often, but not always, seen, a little portion projecting upward. It is called the third lobe, and is exhibited by dissecting and turning down the vasa deferentia, or, rather, the common duct, formed by them and the vesiculae. The under end of ir. 2 E418 the gland, where it joins the membranous part of the urethra, is narrow, and is called the apex. The upper margin is broad, and slightly concave, where it seems to join the bladder. It is partly laid on the neck of the bladder—that is, we can trace the bladder a little way within the gland; and, at the back part, the vesiculae and vasa deferentia can be traced down between them, till they enter the substance of the gland. Sometimes this part of the bladder is thin, but often it is thick, and its mucous coat so identified, as it were, with the gland, that we cannot precisely say where the one ends and the other begins. The urethra passes through the gland, at least an eighth of an inch nearer its upper than its under surface. At the apex, therefore, the upper surface of the urethra is nearly on a line with that of the gland, whilst the under surface is higher than the under surface of the gland, and may, by the point of a catheter, be pressed down against it. On slitting up the gland, we observe, on the under surface, or floor of the canal, a longitudinal ridge, or elevation of the mucous membrane, about half an inch long, and fully an eighth of an inch high. This, which is called the veru montanum, is somewhat pyramidical, for the end nearest the bladder is about a quarter of an inch broad, whilst that toward the urethra is narrow. Its bulb, when the gland is long, may be half an inch from the neck of the bladder. If short, the narrow end is sometimes prolonged into the commencement of the membranous part of the urethra. The common ducts, two in number, formed by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae, enter the gland, or form in it, and passing forward, open on the top of the bulb, whilst, on its sides, small ducts from the gland itself have their orifices. If we trace the gland from its apex, we find, if the subject be placed on the back, and the bladder be empty, that it, as well as the lower part of the bladder, is directed downward, not quite perpendicularly, but sloping a little upward. The direction is nearly parallel to a line drawn from the sym- physis pubis to the promontory of the sacrum ; or we say, that a straight staff introduced, and allowed to go on in the419 natural direction, would touch the hollow of the sacrum,about two inches above the end of the coccyx. If the handle of the stall’ be depressed, we render' the gland more prominent. In the erect posture, it slopes a little upward. If the bladder be inflated, its under part goes more directly backward in the erect posture. The gland does the same, and is brought about a quarter of an inch nearer the sacrum. The urethra, therefore, in this state, is more straight. The apex of the gland (the subject being supine) is about five-eighths of an inch from the margin of the pubic ligament. Its base is an inch and five-eighths. Its surface is about an inch deep, from the face of the ramus. The relation to the anus varies a little, as that orifice is more or less sunk, &c. Usually, the urethral extremity of the gland is fully an inch-from the anus. The upper margin is not higher by the whole length of the gland, for it goes obliquely back- ward. When the bladder is fully, but not over, distended, it is ovoid in its shape. The long axis, from the fundus down- ward, is about five inches and a half. It is about four and a half broad, and four deep. The gland and urethra are not attached to the axis, but before it, at the front of the under part of the bladder, which expands behind them into the sacrum. This portion is called the bas fond, and it may extend for two inches and a half behind the gland. The bladder distends unequally, for the greatest difference in size is at the bas fond and the fundus. The first goes more back- ward than upward. The upper part is more than doubled in height, and the middle portion not quite doubled. In this distended state of the bladder, the peritonaeum goes off* from it to the abdominal muscles, about two inches above the pubis. Behind, the peritonaeum passes from the bladder to the face of the rectum, at from five to seven- eighths of an inch above, or behind, the gland. But, at the sides of the rectum, the peritonaeum passes off higher, so that there is a cul de sac formed, about an inch and a half broad, and not quite so deep. Into this, intestine may descend, and become impacted; or, descending lower, a perinaeal hernia420 may be formed. At the upper margin of the gland, and lower down, a similar layer passes off from its apex, and from the membranous part of the urethra, and becomes identified with the first—so that the gland, urethra, and rectum, are bound together by these at the sides, and, in their course, by dense cellular substance. If matter form here, it may be circumscribed. From the back of the bladder, a reflection of the fascia also goes off within the lateral folds of the peritonaeal cul de sac, strengthening it. The vesical fascia, furnished by the pelvis, passes off a little lower than the reflection of the perito- naeum, both directly backward to the rectum, and also at the sides, forming lateral folds within the peritonaeal sides of the cul de sac, strengthening it, and fixing the two viscera more firmly together. The layer turns down on the face of the rectum, covering it thinly, so that, before any thing can be foi’ced up between the two, this reflection must be torn. We have, also, to remember, that, whilst this layer is given off, the main continuation of the vesical fascia goes down on the gland and membranous part of the urethra, sending off, at their margins, a layer to fix them to the rectum, and losing itself in the continuation of the fascia reflected from above; so that, not only have we the parts connected, by the cellular onion of the vesical and prostatic fascia, with the reflection, on the face of the rectum, but we may, if matter form there, have it thus circumscribed between the two. I have, in this account, traced the fascia from the bladder downward; but it, as formerly seen, may be traced from the sides of the pelvis to the bladder, gland, &c. Removing the rectum and peritonaeum, we see some im- portant parts connected with the bladder and gland—namely, the ureters, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae semenales. The ureter meets the bladder, in the distended state, about an inch above the margin of the cul de sac, not at the side, but at the latero-posterior part. It runs downward, but still more forward, for an inch and a half, under the peri- tonaeum, and covered by the fascia, which binds it to the bladder, which it enters obliquely, about an inch, or an inch and a half, backward, and a little upward, from the gland.421 nearly in a direct line up from its side. It runs parallel to the vas deferens, but about seven-eighths of an inch farther out, and .with the vesicula interposed. Its termination in the bladder is covered by the margin of the vesicula. The vesiculae are bound down, or fixed, by the vesical fascia: They are about two inches long, and, at the broadest part, which is the middle, they are from five to seven-eighths of an inch broad. They are close by the outside of the vasa, and their extremities are two inches and a half distant, for they divaricate. At the gland they approach, but have the vasa deferentia interposed, so that they do not meet. Veins lie to their outside, sweeping down, not exactly by the. side, but a little more toward, sometimes the back, sometimes the front of the gland The vas deferens, which is, at first, nearly round, meets the bladder, when distended, about the middle. As it proceeds along the inner margin of the vesicula, it becomes three-eighths of an inch broad; and the two meet at the vesical end of the gland, within the angle of the vesiculae. At two inches above, or behind, the gland, the distance between the two vasa is an inch and three-quarters.' If we keep close by the median line, we may puncture the bladder from the rectum, at any point, three-quarters of an inch above the gland, so far as the vasa are concerned. At this point, they are three-eighths of an inch separate. Imme- diately above that, they are half an inch separate. We are scarcely safe half an inch above the gland, for, at that part, the vasa are only a quarter of an inch distant. We wish to perforate under the reflection of the peritonaeum and fascia, and, therefore, do not introduce the trocar higher than is necessary to avoid the vasa, say rather less than an inch above the gland. On dividing the levator, we feel not only the mem- branous portion of the urethra and the prostate gland, but, especially if the bladder be distended, we, by carrying the finger, or using the knife, a little farther upward and backward, expose, and may wound, the vesiculae—a fact to be attended to in performing lithotomy. If we make a lateral section of the pelvis, and distend thebladder, we find, that the urethra goes down on the pubic ligament, and then turns in through the fascia. The pros- tate gland, in the erect posture, lies below, and a little back- wai'd, from the margin of the pubic ligament, the space between them being half an inch. The rectum sweeps for- ward, behind the gland and membranous part of the urethra. The bas fond extends into the lower part of the hollow of the sacrum. The Pudic artery, as large as the radial, on re-entering the pelvis, at the spine of the ischium, runs forward, on the inside of the tuberosity, and then at the ramus, toward the arch of the pubis. It lies partly on the margin of the obturator, covered by the levator, but separated from it*by a fascia, which also binds it firmly in its place, and obscures it. The external ligament sends a prolongation forward, along the ischium, forming a sulcus, or channel. The artery does not exactly lie on this, but it is a little higher, and is defended by it. The branches given off must pierce the aponeurosis which covers the artery. At the implantation of the ligament, it is about three-fourths of an inch above the margin of the bone. As it proceeds, it is an inch and a quarter from the very end of the tuberosity, and presently less than an inch from the margin of the ramus. If the finger be introduced into the rectum, up to the second joint, the artery may be felt beating through it. Venae comites accompany it. It consists of two divisions—one intended principally for the perinaeum and rectum; the other for the penis. The first consists of four branches, the second of two. ]. About three-fourths of an inch from the entrance of the artery, near the implantation of the ligament, and on the obturator, before that pass out, there is given off, the haemorrhoidea externa, which runs across, and a little for- ward, ramifying, in the angular pit of fat, already de- scribed ; and also sending twigs to the anus and end of the rectum. 2. Near an inch more forward, on the tuberosity, some- times at the root of the ramus, is given off the perinea super- ficialis, which, turning out by the margin of the erector, runs ,up in the sulcus, between that and the accelerator, and also on both, till it reach the scrotum, where it ends. Being a superficial artery, it is found in the first step of our dissection, and its accompanying veins are easily seen without in- jecting. 3. Very often, as a branch of this last artery, though sometimes as a distinct ramus, there is given off the trans- versalis perinaei. It,.with its veins, runs across the angular pit, either on the surface of the transversalis muscle, or on the levator ani, in front of the rectum. It is distributed chiefly between the anus and bulb. 4<. Nearly opposite to the commencement of the bulb, deep, and hid by the crus, a large branch is given off from the trunk. It runs deep, along the margin of the triangular fascia, in which it is involved. It goes to the inner surface of the bulb, which it enters by divisions. It also gives twigs to Cooper’s glands. It is the artery of the bulb. 5. About midway between the margin of the ramus and the foramen thryroidem, the pudic trunk gives off the artery of the corpus cavernosum, or, sometimes, it comes off with the artei*y of the bulb. It runs on, within the ramus, to near the junction of the two corpora, or a little below the pubic liga- ment, where it enters the crus by the inner, or median sur- face. There is a communication through theseptem, between the arteries of opposite sides. 6. The continuation of the pudic artery gets to the margin of the ramus of the pubis, passes through the slit in the trian- gular ligament, for the transmission of the dorsal veins, gets on the dorsum of the penis, at the root, where it meets the one from the other side. It runs on, parallel to its fel- low, in the slight groove between the two crura, and proceeds to the glans and prepuce. It is the dorsalis penis. Sometimes all, or most of these branches, come off from a blanch of the internal iliac, within the pelvis, running by the side of the neck of the bladder, or gland, the pudic giving, pel haps, only a perinaeal artery. The veins from the lower part of the scrotum, crura of the penis, and surface of the perinaeum, ramify pretty exten-424 sively in or under the fascia, and pass through the angular pit of fat, to join, far back, the hajmorrhoidal, or pudic vein. Those which return the blood from the different regular branches of the pudic artery, accompany these branches, with the exception of the vena dorsalis penis, which, entering the slit in the triangular fascia, passes along the side of the prostate gland, to communicate with the vesical vein. The pudic nerve, like the artery, re-enters the pelvis, by passing over either the spine of the- ischium, or end of the ligament, and, like it, is firmly bound down by fascia. Often it divides into two before entering, and the artery lies between them; if not, it divides, immediately afterwards. One divi- sion, for the perinaeum, &c., runs lower than the artery; another, which is continued to the pubis and penis, runs higher. This last accompanies the dorsal artery, passing out, generally, to the inside of the artery; but, when fairly on the dorsum, it often lies almost on the artery, that is, more superficially. It is distributed on the crura, &c., all the way forward. The first gives off the external haemorrhoidal, transversalis perinei, superficialis perinei, accompanying, more or less closely, the corresponding arteries. The gluteal nerve sends forward twigs to the skin of the perinaeum. A catheter, of almost any shape, straight, or gently curved, may be introduced into the bladder. One gently curved toward the extremity passes readily. The acce- lerator, on each side, rises high at the suspensory of the urethra, and might be supposed capable, by contracting, to press the sides of the canal nearer each other, and thus pre- vent the flow of urine, or entrance of the catheter. But it is not so. Spasm, were it to exist, can do no more than tighten- ing the muscle, by pulling it down, does, and this has na effect. In the healthy state of the urethra, there are two points, where difficulty may be experienced, in passing the instrument. The first is at the triangular fascia, just at the very origin of the bulb, where it departs from the canal, which here passes through the triangular fascia. The bulb is fixed to the fascia here, and so is the membranous canal.425 in the manner described. Now, when the point of the catheter arrives here, it meets with a firmer texture than heretofore. It may pass directly along the canal, through the aperture in the £ascia, or it may be caught by the margin of the aperture, and press the canal down, that is, carry it on its point over the rim. This is more likely to happen, from the urethra being, if any thing, rather wider, just before the aperture, so that a kind of small sinus exists. If force be employed, the under surface of the canal is depressed, and carried beneath the rim, and, if the instrument be still pressed on, the canal is ruptured just between the rim and the origin of the bulb. Its point may be driven into the bulb, but this is rare. Usually, it is carried either by the side, or commonly by the under surface of the membranous portion, to a greater or less extent, between it and the rectum. It is rare, indeed, for the urethra to be ruptured at the upper surface. If the point be elevated, and force used, no doubt this may be accomplished, and the instrument would rupture also the triangular fascia, and get forward between the anterior ligaments of the bladder. That there is a natural obstruction, as it is called, at this point, is proved on the dead subject. Let a sound be intro- duced, till it meet with an obstruction, and then dissect the parts, and mark the cause. I do not, when I use the term natural obstruction, mean, that, in every case, the same degree of catching exists. Far from it; for, in some, the fascia is more lax, and the connexion with the urethra less distinct, so that the canal cannot be turned over the rim. In general, if we introduce a sound into the bladder, and, in withdrawing it, keep it, or its point, a little up against the upper surface of the canal, we are sensible, when the point passes over the rim there, that it has slipped over a resisting band. From this account, we conclude—1st, That a catheter so large as to occupy the urethra, ought to pass more easily than a small one, which is more likely to have its point caught by the yielding urethra at the rim. 2d, That, if we meet with an obstruction, that is not to be overcome by force, but42G by withdrawing, for a quarter, of. an inch, the instrument, to let the floor of the urethra recover its position, and then slightly elevating its point. We may, also, at this time, derive some advantage from drawing the penis a little for- ward, so as to put the urethra just as much on the stretch as shall make it less likely to fold or yield. 3d, That, if this be not sufficient, we shall derive much advantage from intro- ducing a finger into the rectum, which, by its filling the anus, as well as supporting the face of the rectum,* keeps up the urethra, and makes the point of the instrument glide smoothly on its surface. Another spot for obstacle is, where the urethra meets the prostate gland. Often, but not always, a slight transverse ridge is observed, when the parts are slit up from above; and, in this case, the point of the sound may be caught, just as it was by the rim of the triangular fascia, and, if forced on, the canal is ruptured, and the instrument enters the substance of the gland, or, much more frequently, passes between the gland and the rectum. This is not so frequently the seat of obstruction as the one first mentioned. But when it is, the same means are to be employed—namely, slightly withdrawing the instrument, and then elevating its point, and introducing the finger into the rectum, if necessary, which is still more useful than in the first case. In that case, when the urethra is ruptured, it can scarcely be said to be in the membranous portion, for it is rather anterior to it. In the second case, the rupture is at its very termination. The tract of the membranous portion, itself, is seldom ruptured, even by ignorance, unless there be stricture, or some unnatu- ral obstruction. The catheter, or sound, ought always to be oiled, and made of the same heat as that of the urethra. If the urine be too long retained, it is sometimes impos- sible to void it, partly, from defect of power in the bladder, partly, from spasm of the muscular fibres at the membranous part of the urethra. Some deny this, and suppose that the obstruction is from inflammatory swelling. It is usual to em- ploy the warm bath, &c.; but, I believe, the best practice is, k427 at once to introduce the silver'catheter of full size. If it go in readily, so far well. If it be obstructed, we generally succeed by allowing the point to remain for a little in con- tact with the contracted part, or we make only the slightest pressure. Presently, the resistence yields. If it should not, we try a smaller catheter. If there be pain, and tenderness of the part, and especially if the pulse be quick, and the skin hot, we let.blood from the arm, and use the hip bath. Should we still fail, a very small, smooth, elastic catheter, without a wii*e, is to be introduced. It stops, perhaps, at the spot; but, if kept there for a minute, the water often flows by the side of the catheter, which can now be passed into the blad- der. A fine catheter, with a wire, requires much caution. If the wire be intended to enable us to use force, it only puts it ’in our power to pierce the urethra. Should we still fail, and bleeding have been premised, if the part be tender, then we pass down a sound, having a depression on its point, which we fill with soft wax, and sink into it a minute bit of alkaline caustic. This is gently pressed against the obstruc- tion ; and, if the sound itself do not pass, we often find that the patient exclaims he is going to make water, and it fol- lows the sound when withdrawn, or, if not, we are now able to pass a small catheter. Distension of the bladder, if long continued, may be followed by inflammation of that viscus,and adhesion of the fundus to the peritonaeum lining the abdomen. I have known the point of adhesion to thicken so, by deposi- tion of fibrin, as to form a tumour, felt externally below the umbilicus. In this case, it is evident, that, although the patient may frequently void water, or even have an inconti- nence of urine, yet he never can empty his bladder. In permanent stricture, inflammation may take place be- hind the obstruction, and the urethra either slough there, and the urine find its way under the fascia, or the circum- jacent cellular substance inflames, and an abscess forms, which communicates with the urethra. It both discharges pus by the urethra, and can receive urine from it. This state can- not last long. The coats of the abscess give way, and urine is immediatedly infiltrated into the neighbouring parts. We428 cannot too soon open this abscess ; and then we have to treat the case as a perinaeal fistula. This must not be confounded with abscess of Cooper’s gland, or abscess succeeding a com- mon inflammation, or scrophulous inflammation in the peri- naeum. The history of the case, and the difficulty of making water, if such exist, following, not pi'eceding, the abscess, will point out its nature. But still we are to open early. The prostate gland may enlarge either upward or down- ward. It is not usual for it to enlarge exclusively, or even chiefly, in a direction away from the bladder; but it some- times does so, and also expands laterally. It must come nearer the perinaeum; and the prostatic portion of the urethra is lengthened. Generally, it enlarges upward on the bladder, and inward, carrying the coats of the bladder before it. On opening the bladder, we see the lateral lobes pro- jecting upward, often to a great degree, into the cavity, whilst, very often, there is also a middle projection, that may also go upward, but more frequently, it bends forward, over the orifice of the bladder, so as to overhang it like a valve. If we slit up the gland, we find the prostatic portion of the urethra to be altered in its course. It is often curved very much to one side, and sometimes it is bent forward. From this, we see that there may be great difficulty in passing a catheter. If force be employed, a false passage is made. If the canal be tolerably straight, and the middle lobe not much projected forwai’d, a full-sized silver catheter can be intro- duced pretty easily. But, in contrary circumstances, we must use a flexible catheter, and allow it to remain for some time at the obstruction, pressing only most gently till it bend a little, and take the proper direction. In this view, we would prefer a catheter which was as flexible as was consistent with sufficient firmness to enable us to carry it on. If a wire be used, it should, when we reach the gland, be withdrawn for two inches. It is scarcely safe to give the catheter a curve at the end by the wire. The bladder may be much dis- tended, although the urine dribble constantly away. If the catheter can be readily introduced, the patient derives not only great relief from its use, but the progress of the disease is429 rendered slower, by the absence of irritation. If it be difficult, and also give much pain, we introduce it only as often as is necessary, to avoid a greater evil. In performing the operation of lithotomy, we have two stages to consider. The first includes the steps necessary to reach the membranous part of the urethra; the second, those required for getting into the bladder. The staff should be as large as the urethi-a will easily admit, and is better straight than curved. The groove should be deep. It is per- fectly useless in the first incision; and all that is to be at- tended to is, to have it kept in the bladder. The external incision should begin near the root of the scrotum, and pass about midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, going just beyond the posterior margin of the anus. This, in the perinaeum, is not deep, for it only exposes the perinaeal fascia, or superficial muscles. Toward the anus, it is deeper, entering into the angular pit of fat. Veins and subcutaneous arteries and nerves are divided ; and, behind, branches of the external haemorrhoidal artery and nerve are cut. The second incision goes deeper, but much less so above than below. Above, we divide between the accelerator and erector, recollecting the breadth of the urethra. If we go too near the median line, we cut the bulb; and, if too near the ramus, we cut the crus. The first is the most frequent error. The bulb, covered with the accelerator, extends to about half an inch out from the median line, or raphe. The erector runs farther back than the accelerator, but they are in contact all the course of the latter, and, as I have already described, the space, which would otherwise be vacant, between its rounded end and the erector, is filled by the transversalis perinei, and sometimes a prolongation back- ward and outward, toward the tuberosity, of the accelerator. This strip, when it exists, and the transversalis, must always be divided; but we may separate the accelerator itself from the erector without cutting either. We do not require to detach them far up, or, at the most, beyond the proper extent of the bulb itself. This descends more or less, in different instances, from the point where the membranous430 portion turns in through the triangular fascia. It may be from half an inch, to three quarters, but, generally, it is nearer the former than the latter. We do not go deep here, for we have no object. If we separated the parts well, as we may on the dead subject, and inti’oduced the finger, with the nail uppermost, into the space here, between the accelerator and erector, at the origin of the bulb, we should have the back of the nail pressing up on the margin of the triangular fascia, the side of it on the accelerator, the edge of the nail on the membranous portion of the urethra, felt through the levator, and the front of the point of the finger on the pros- tate gland, covered also by the levator. Now, we wish to avoid the margin of the triangular fascia* or the transverse line, near the end of the bulb, for the artery of the bulb runs there. If we say that the bulb extends to about five-eighths of an inch of the anus, and that the urethra leaves it to pass through the fascia, nearly as much above the end of the bulb, we conclude that the incision does not require to be deep, more than an inch above the anus, and hence the artery of the bulb is safe. We may go so far as to separate the accelerator and erector, but not so deep as to expose the fascia. It is quite suflScient to separate or divide a little in the sulcus, between the muscles; but we never ought to go deep enough to detach them completely to the bottom. By the side of the bulb, we go quite to the levator, on which that part rests, but we do not go so near the accelerator as to injure it. We introduce two fingers into the wound, gently pressing the bulb to the other side, and the levator and rectum downward. From near the top of the bulb to the tuberosity, we go as deep as the levator, and fairly through all the cellular substance, or fat covering it, which is always more and moi'e as we go backward. In this, we recollect that the levator lies on the face of the rectum and its sides; and, therefore, we do not divide the muscle in that tract. In front, or in the tract before the anus, we press the muscle backward, and perhaps a little to the other side. At, and beyond the anus, we cut clear of the outer, or what, in the erect posture, would be the under surface of the muscle, pressing it a little towaid431 the median line. Although I have noticed the parts which are divided, it is not to be expected that these are now exhi- bited distinctly. There is just a simple line of wound resulting, deep, between the tuberosity and anus, shallow, at the top of the perinaeum. It is, altogether, from three inches to three inches and a half long, according to the fatness and size of the adult. Distinct muscles are not seen, for they are not cleaned. It is more like a wound in cellular sub- stance. The transversalis artery, and perhaps the super- ficialis perinaeal, and twigs of the external haemorrhoidal, are the only vessels cut. If the finger now be introduced into the wound and pressed gently upward behind, or deeper than the bulb, we feel the staff through the levator muscle. The staff is to be kept steady, and then, the back of the knife being downward, we may either cut upward, so as to divide that portion of the muscle which is interposed between the finger and urethra, or, we insert the knife, below the passage of the urethra through the fascia, close behind the bulb, with the blade downward, into the urethra, and slit it in the direction toward the gland. In either case, a small narrow-bladed scalpel is best. If we cut upward, with a broad scalpel, we art apt to wound the artery of the bulb. We are told to divide the muscle freely; now, if misled by that term, we cut more than this portion, and a little of that on the urethral end of the prostate gland, we gain nothing, but may do much harm. We may, if we divide it backward and upward, possibly escape the rectum; but we expose the prostate gland, and perhaps cut the vesiculae semenales. Even if we do not go so high, but more downward—that is, backward—we endanger the rectum. A free exposure, or regular dissection of the gland, is useless, and hurtful. To divide the muscle laterally is safer ; but this is done better afterwards. We cannot cut more forward without dividing the triangular fascia and artery of the bulb. It is then only a small wound which is actually made, whatever be the term employed, or the intention of the operator—namely, that which bounds the tract of the membranous part of the urethra, and the extremity of the gland. In doing this, wekeep behind the bulb altogether, and take care not to come so far forward with the knife as to cut the triangular fascia and the bulbous artery, far less the bulb itself. The opening being made in the levator, the staff is now better felt. If it be curved, it is to be kept steady, and the urethra being opened, a straight director is to be introduced, on which, after the staff is withdrawn, a probe-pointed bistoury is to be run forward. But it is better to use a straight staff; and, in this case, the groove is turned toward the anus, till the cutting instrument be introduced, when it is turned to aside. With regard to the opening of the urethra, 1 have to advise, that the staff be kept steady, whilst the levator is opened by the knife, guided by the finger. The scalpel is then to be intro- duced through the opening, and guided, by the finger, to the staff. Its point is to be sunk into the groove, or the tract may be pricked gently, to be sure that the point is on the groove. When inserted, the membranous portion covered by the membranous fibre, is to be divided freely; but it is to be remembered, that the tract is only about three-eighths of an inch long. The nail of the finger is to be inserted into the opening, and, on it, the bistoury, or scalpel, is to be intro- duced, rubbing the probe point a little backward and for- ward at first, to be sure that it is on the bare groove. It is then, the staff, or director, being held steady by the left hand, to be run bn with the blade to one side, so as to divide the gland. It requires to be carried pretty deep, for the gland is at least an inch long. The incision, in a lateral direction through the gland, must be from half to five-eighths of an inch—that being the usual semidiameter of the gland. We may cut more than this in the tract of the membranous portion of the urethra and commencement of the gland, so as thus to divide laterally, as I expressed above, a little more of the levator. But we ought not to cut the gland, except at the urethral end, so freely as to fully divide the fascia covering it. If we do so, we may cut the veins—an accident specially to be avoided in old men. The veins run chiefly by the upper margin of the side of the gland ; others run at the under margin ; whilst the very side is usually free. We433 are in no risk of going through the fascia, into the cavity of the pelvis, if we cut exactly, the side, in the long axis of the gland, for we thus go parallel to and below the fascia, as it is reflected to the pelvis. The staff, if straight, is directed toward the hollow of the sacrum, parallel to the has fond. We do not wish to divide the neck of tlie bladder beyond the vicinity of the orifice, nor is it necessary to cut it so com- pletely through, as to carry the knife to the parts on its outside. It is safer to leave a thin partition, which, if it do not dilate in extracting the stone, gives way if more space be required. But, even if we cut the neck fairly through, or go a little more to the side with the knife, still we do not cut the reflection of fascia, if the staff be in the direction of the bas fond, for the fascia passes off in a line parallel to that, to go to the pelvis and side of the rectum. The knife would go below that, and above or before the vesicula. But, if the blade be directed obliquely upward, and especially if the point of the staff be too far forward, the fascia, at the upper side of the gland, may be opened, and the veins cut. On the other hand, if the blade be directed obliquely downward, the end of the vesicula may be cut. The knife being withdrawn, the staff is to be left, and the finger introduced, on it, into the bladder, after which the staff is withdrawn. If we feel that the opening is tight, and embraces the finger, we can intro- duce the bistoury on it, so as to enlarge the aperture a little. If the finger enter easily, we convey on it the forceps. In extracting the stone, if the levator resist the exit much, we can safely cut a little more of the tightened margin of the opening. We are told to divide the gland freely, but we must not do more, especially in old men, than divide its sub- stance, but scarcely its covering, for the veins are often very large, and, if divided, bleed profusely. W^e can, by pressure* stop the haemorrhage ; but the result is often fatal. It is said that the pudic artery may be cut by the scalpel, or bistour}^, and especially by the gorget. It may be so, if the operator be so determined; but it lies out of the way, and, unless the bistoury have its point turned very much to one side, so as to make the blade sweep across the inside of the 2 F434 ramus on withdrawing it, the vessel is safe. A large artery has, as a lusus, run by the side of the gland, and might be wounded. But the great cause of haemorrhage is either the division of veins on the prostate gland, or of the artery of the bulb ; for the two terminal branches of the pudic artery can hardly be injured if the operator keep within his proper limits. Haemorrhage, from the superficial arteries, is some- times considerable, and a ligature may be necessary. The artery of the bulb, if cut, should rather be tied than com- pressed. My object, in this account, is, to enable the student to operate by anatomical rule, in the mode he likes best, re- ferring, for other particulars, to systems of operations. Before describing the groin, it will be useful to make some remarks on the connexion of the abdominal muscles. There is, in the loins, on each side, close by the spine, a thick and tolerably broad mass of muscle. The portion nearest the ridge of the spine, is the longissimus dorsi; the one more outward, is the sacro-lumbalis. Both are covered by the tendon and aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi; and beneath the sacro-lumbalis lies the short muscle, called quadratus lumborum. This is inclosed between two layers of fascia—one rises from the spinous px’ocesses of the vertebrae, and covers the outer surface of the muscle; another, from the transverse processes, lines the inner surface ; and these at its anterior margin unite, forming a sheet, from which arises the transversalis. This fascia, so constructed, is called the lumbar fascia. The tendon, or aponeurosis, of the latissimus dorsi, at the margin of the sacro-lumbalis, dips down, to be lost in this fascia ; and, from the line of implantation, we may trace the fascia back to the spine, or forward to the margin of the quadratus, and thence to the fibres of the transversalis. It is of importance to attend to this arrangement, in consider- ing the effect of strain, lumbago, &c. The External oblique, behind, is bounded by the margin of the latissimus dorsi, where it is going to dip down, and is con- nected to it only by cellular substance, forming a slight line ofIS5 demarcation ; but, superficially, they are bound together by a general fascial covering. The line of the margin of the muscular fibres is almost perpendicular from the lower margin of the last rib, to the crest of the ilium, fully two inches and a half from the posterior spinous process. The muscular fibres terminate in the broad tendon, in a slightly convex line, ex- tending from the end of the seventh rib to the crest, scarcely an inch back from the anterior spine. They come so low, as little more than an inch above Poupart’s ligament. The broad tendon is said to terminate in the median line, called linea alba.* The Internal oblique rises by muscular fibres from the two anterior thirds of the crest of the ilium, or as far • The Linea Alba is formed by the union of the tendinous and fascial layers, which are external and internal, to the recti muscles. For instance, the tendon of the external oblique passes, at the under third, with those of the internal oblique and transversalis, across the I’ecti muscles—the tendons of the one side being continuous with those of the other. But, in the median line, between the recti, the tendons so sink, or the fascia transversalis so rises from within, that a firm line of union is formed. The tendons are said to be inserted into this line, but they only contribute to form it, and can be traced from side to side. In the two upper thirds, a layer of the tendon of the internal oblique passes behind the recti, and there these two muscles are not so near each other as farther down. The linea alba, there is more than half an inch broad, whilst nearer the pubis, it is a mere line. Very near the symphysis, the tendon of the external oblique iS connected with a fascia on the inner surface of the pyramidalis. The linea semilunaris, at the outer margin of the rectus, is formed by the union there of the tendons and fascia. The cross bands on the rectus adhere intimately to the muscle, but are super- ficial. The umbilicus, viewed from the inside, after removing the peritonteum, seems a small depression, shut up by the peritonieum, identified with the remains of the obliterated vessels, urachus, and a doubling in of the skin from without. When hernia takes place in the adult, it may be covered almost entirely by skin, or chiefly by aponeurosis, in close contact with the peritoneal, or herniary sac. In this last case, the surface of the hernia is, in colour, somewhat like the tumour in spina bifida, and often is fretted. I'he peritoneal sac, and aponeurotic covering, are often, especially in front, adherent to each other, which requires attention in operating. In operating, if the vessels be obliterated, we may dilate or cut in any direction; but we are safest in cutting toward the left side, or, if we go up- ward, obliquely to that side. Sir Astley Cooper recommends to make an incision below the aperture, like the letter T, so that the orifice of the sac may afterwards be covered. He justly, however, prefers making a small incision over (he orifice, by which the hernia protrudes, and cutting the stricture exterior to the neck of the sac. In children, the sac is covered by firm aponeurosis, surrounded by the common integuments.436 back as, or a little farther than, the implantation of the external oblique. Its posterior margin ascends to the last rib, and, in its course up, is connected with the line of fascia lumhorum, at the margin of the quadratus. It rises also from Poupart’s ligament, to within a distance, varying in different cases, of the tubercle of the pubis. The direction of the fibres, and their implantation into tendon, I need not at present describe. On removing the external oblique, and turning back the latissimus, we see a little of the Transversalis uncovered, at the upper part of the internal oblique. This last being taken off, we find that the transversalis rises from the fascia lum- borum, at the margin of the quadratus, from the inner surface of the six lower ribs, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from Poupart’s ligament, forward to the superior aperture of the inguinal canal. The muscular fibres do not, at the top, rise so far back, and, therefore, there, more of the fascia lumborum is seen. This stronsf fascia can be traced under the muscular fibres, as far forward as the end of the last rib, where it becomes thin, and is lost in a cellular lining of the muscle. Near the linea semilunaris, the tendon of the muscle commences, and, with that of the internal oblique, passes behind the rectus muscle, till midway between the umbilicus and pubis, when both pass before it. (In the upper part, the internal oblique is said to send a layer in front of the rectus.) Often the transversalis, near the ensi- form cartilage, is muscular under the rectus. The tendon of the internal oblique, and that of the transversalis, are so con- joined, that we should say, the muscular fibres of the former employed the tendon of the latter, were it not that we can, for a very short space, distinguish a tendon proper to the oblique. At the inguinal canal, the tendon of the transver- salis is, of necessity, separated from the lining, or tendon, of the oblique, and, at the margin of the rectus muscle, we may trace the tendons from the point of union, either on the inner surface of the oblique, or to the transversalis, as if the one were reflected to the other. Lastly, it is to be recollected, that the pelvic fascia, ot437 which the iliac is a part, passes up from the symphysis, to line the recti muscles, which, at the lower part, have no tendinous sheath. The iliac fascia binds Poupart’s ligament to the muscle, and rises up, lining the transversalis, and constituting the fascia transversalis of Sir Astley Cooper, to whose exami- nation of the parts concerned in hernia, the profession is so deeply indebted. It is strong for fully a quarter of an inch above Poupart’s ligament, but, from thence, upward, becomes thinner, and, at last, cellular. It covers that implantation of the ligament which has been called Gimbernat’s ligament, and is continued down into the crural canal. It, in short, lines the pelvis, and, distinctly, every part of the lower portion of the abdominal parietes; and, were it not perforated at one spot, the coi'd, or the round ligament, could not get out. How it is connected w'ith the fascia of the thigh, will be pre- sently explained. We now attend more strictly to the groin. The tendon of the external oblique is implanted into the spinous process of the crest of the ilium, and, thence, stretches to the tubercle of the pubis. In this extent, it is fixed internally by the fascia already described, externally by the aponeurosis, or fascia of the thigh. Internally, it is quite bound down to the iliacus, till we come to the femoral artery. From this point, the border, or ligament, as it is called, forms a slight ledge, or shelving, backward, that is, toward the pelvis ; and the upper surface of this, in the natural state, is slightly grooved, so that it forms a superficial channel on which the cord rests. This has, of necessity, two margins, or borders—the anterior, which is the outer surface of the ligament, and the posterior, which is continuous with the crescentic portion. This last margin is of importance in femoral hernia. The breadth of the groove, between the two borders, is a quarter of an inch in the female, rather more in the male. If we pull up the tendon, the groove is indistinct, but still the line, or shelving remains. Some, consider what is called Poupart’s ligament, as a distinct band ; others, merely as the border of the tendon turned inward. The former appear the most correct, from this circumstance, that, when the implantation takes place438 into the tubercle, it does not stop there, but curves, or extends outward, attached to the upper surface of the bone, or the fibrous edge of that part of the lineo ilio-pectinea, called the ligament of the pubis, and to the’pectineus. This is variable in its strength and extent, being sometimes very indistinct, or extremely short; at others, strong and fibrous, and perhaps an inch long, binding the ligament, to that extent to the bone and the pectineus; or, we may say, that the ligament begins to be implanted there, by a lunated margin, and then is continued on to the tubercle. It has been called Gimbernat’s ligament. To prevent confusion, it may be called the Crescentic implantation. The length of Poupart’s ligament varies in different adults, and in the two sexes. In the male, it is from four inches and three-quarters, to five inches and a half; but the greater number somewhat more than five. In the female, it is from four inches and a quarter, to five inches and three-quarters ; the greater number under five and a quarter. Viewed from within, this ligament has a slightly arched appearance, on the vessels and crural ring, on which account, some call it the crural arch. The broad tendon of the external oblique, near the tubercle of the pubis, splits, so as to leave an aperture for the issuing of the cord, or round ligament. This separation has, of course, two margins, or sides, called its pillars, and these are, at the commencement of the separation, interwoven by cross fibres, called intercolumnar, which bind the two together more firmly there, and also give that end of the aperture a semilunar shape; and the pillars near the tubercle ap- pi’oaching towai’d each other, the opening is nearly oval. Even farther out, cross fibres are observable. The inferior band, or pillar, has been confounded with Poupart’s liga- ment, but is separable from it, and is implanted into the front of the root of the tubercle, and goes a very little more in- ward than the ligament, which is inserted into the tubercle itself. The superior band, goes over the fiice of the pubis, attached to it, decussating that of the opposite side, without being united to it. Sometimes it is divided into two bands, and, generally, a strip can be traced by the inside of the439 thigh, even’to the glutens maximus. The aperture is, in the male, about half an inch broad; in the female, about a quarter. The lunated margin of the aperture, which deter- mines its length, is distant from the tubercle, in the male, about half an inch ; next to that, five-eighths ; and so on, up to an inch. In the female, the usual distance is half an inch, and next to that, five-eighths, up to seven-eighths. In a few cases, the ligament scarcely passes out, and the aperture is small, and even indistinct. In both sexes, the superficial aponeurosis of the abdomen passes over the aperture, and down on the cord, or ligament. But, besides this, a layer, like a continuation of the margin of the aperture, goes down, even to the scrotum, as an envelope, called the fascia propria of the cord. The shape, or edges of the aperture, are not distinct, till this be detached from it. If we turn off the tendon of the external oblique, in the male, we expose the muscular fibres of the internal, which arise from Poupart’s ligament, to about the upper, or lunated margin of the aperture, just described. But all the way forward to the tubercle, we see muscular substance, more or less distinct. This descends on the cord, and is the cremaster muscle, which is said to arise from Poupart’s ligament, but seems rather an offset from the internal oblique, and passes out with, and on the cord, going down to the scrotum. If we clear away this muscle, and define the margin of the internal oblique, we find that it covers the cord, down to the lunated margin of the aperture, and there arches over it, to be in- serted, tendinous, into the tubercle and covering of the rectus muscle—the portion of the cord, which would other- wise be uncovered with muscle, being covered by the cre- master. The internal oblique is, at the margin of the rectus, so connected, as has been described, with the tendon of the transversalis, that, were we to trace from that margin, out- waid, we might say, that one thin layer went to line, for a very short way, the oblique, and another, stronger, went to the transversalis. If, next, we remove the internal oblique, we see the trails- versalis rising from at least the outer third of Poupart’s440 ligament, or as far forward as the point where the cord issues from the abdomen, and arching over it, as the internal oblique did, but farther out, or nearer the ilium. The fibres either arch over, or pass obliquely across, the cord, just at its exit, or soon after it. Immediately after this, they end in tendon, which is implanted into the ligament, or adherent to its inner margin, from this point, all the way forward to the tubercle, and forward on the rectus muscle. In all that course, to the margin of the rectus, it is identified with the fascia transversalis, as its inner layer, and, as we have seen, this united and inseparable substance, is reflected or extended outward, over the crescentic implantation of Poupart’s liga- ment, also on the origin of the pectineus, and down into the crural ring. The implantation of this tendon, then, is extensive, goes lower than that of the internal oblique, and, when the muscle contracts, or is pulled, the whole course of implantation may be tightened, or rendered tense—viz., behind the cord, on the crescentic ligament^and at and in the crural ring. The direction of the fibres is not always the same, for sometimes they go obliquely downward and forward; in other cases, they early arch, or curve outwards, so that the margin of the aperture is rendered tense by the action of the muscle. Even where they pass upon the crescentic implantation, they are not alvvays curved. It often happens, that a thin layer of muscular fibres, from the transversalis, goes behind the cord, to the tubercle, and also a few before it, so that it may, in these cases, be said to be enveloped in a muscular sheath. A fasciculus sometimes descends more perpendicularly behind the cord, at the supe- rior aperture, going to be inserted into the pelvic fascia, near the crescentic implantation of Poupart’s ligament. The muscular fibres of the transversalis, behind the cord, often arch down to Poupart’s ligament, and, in that case, form “ the folded muscular fibres” of Sir Astley Cooper. When they curve much, they must so act on the aperture as to lessen the risk of protrusion; but if that do take place, this structure will resist the return. This muscular layer is, in some cases, strengthened by a considerable fasciculus from441 the internal oblique, going behind the cord to the tubercle. It is not unusual to find the cord passing in a slit between two muscular fasciculi, one above, another below, and both partly behind. Lastly, when we take off the muscular portion of the transversalis, we see a thin layer of fascia, which had been interposed between it and the peritonaeum. It is perfo- rated, or has an oval aperture, by which the cord passes out. This is situated nearly above the point where the femoral artery issues, and is called the superior aperture of the in- guinal canal. As soon as the tendon of the transversalis commences, this unites with it, and is inserted, as has been described. When the cord passes out here, we find that the peritonaeum accompanies it, as a covering, and that the peritonaeum, in its turn, is covered by, or carries out with it, a continuation of a thin layer, from the margin of the supe- rior aperture. The cord, therefore, has two coverings, down- ward, from the abdominal parietes, besides the cremaster, fascia propria, and superficial fascia, five in all, under the skin. If, instead of dissecting, seriatim, from the outside, we look from the inner surface, we see, after removing the peritonaeum, the transversalis muscle lined with thin fascia, and which is perforated for the cord, or round ligament, and can be traced in all directions, as formerly explained. It is often strengthened, from the margin of the rectus muscle outward, by perpendicular fibres, which descend to the ex- pansion over Gimbernat’s ligament, to the pelvic fascia and crural ring. Sometimes one band is stronger than the others, especially going to the pubal margin of the ring, and this may tighten the neck of the sac in crural hernia. Ihe cord thus passes obliquely out, and its tract is named the inguinal canal. The front of this is formed by the tendon ol the external oblique muscle, and, at the upper end, by the muscular substance of the internal, partially, by that ol the transversalis. The posterior wall is formed at the top, by the fascia transversalis, and, as soon as the tendon of the transversalis muscle commences, by it, in addition to, or union with, the fascia. As the internal oblique arches over442 the cord, and the tendon of the transversalis goes behind it, attached to Poupart’s ligament, it is evident that, here, the latter descends lower than the former. The floor, toward the inferior aperture, is formed by the channel in Poupart’s ligament; the upper margin, by union of the muscular fibres of the internal oblique to the wall behind. The length of the canal varies. It is measured from the lunated margin of the inferior, to the pubal margin of the superior aperture. This, in the male, in the natural state, is from an inch and a half, to an inch and seven-eighths, generally an inch and five-eighths. In the female, from an inch, to an inch and three-quarters, most frequently about an inch and a half. The size of the upper aperture, in the male, is not always well defined—the ilial and upper margin being often blended with cellular substance. It is oval, the long diameter being directed obliquely upward. It is scarcely an inch long, and the breadth is a quarter of an inch less. Sometimes, it is considerably less, and more accurately fitted to the size of the cord. The height of the lower margin, above Poupart’s ligament, is not less than three-eighths of an inch; but, as the cord is not always close on the margin, it frequently issues a quarter of an inch higher, especially the ilial margin, which may be a quarter of an inch higher than the pubal. The cord winds gradually downward and inward, and reaches Poupart’s ligament within an inch of the lunated margin of the inferior aperture. Near its exit, it is a quarter of an inch higher than the margin of the ligament. It passes out with its pubal margin, pretty close to the tubercle, and there it is about half an inch broad. When we remove the coverings of the fascia transversalis, we observe that, at the upper aperture of the canal, the peritonaeum, from the pressure of the neighbouring parts, protrudes a little over the cord, like a short funnel. Now, when the canal is wider than usual, a similar projection takes place, and this increases till a regular sac protrude, contain- ing intestine, or omentum. It often happens, that fat is deposited in the canal, widening it, and, when this is443 absorbed, the canal does not contract, and hernia takes place. A large proportion of elderly men have incipient hernia, / especially on the right side. A short canal also predisposes to hernia, but it is often also an effect; for, when the contents of the abdomen protrude, the pubal margin of the canal is naturally pressed inward, so that, in old hernia, the canal is not only very short, but is scarcely oblique. From the fixed position of the constituent parts of the cord, previous to its exit, it is evident, that the sac must, in common inguinal hernia, come down in front of the cord. There are, doubt- less, instances where, in this hernia, its component parts have been separated, lying partly on the sides, or altogether on the face of the tumour; but, in this, there must have been some peculiarity in the state of the aperture, or some laceration of the fascia there. It is conceivable, that, where strong ad- hesion has been formed between the cord and the sac, the great enlargement of the latter may decompose the former, but it never can place it in front. As the vas deferens hooks round the epigastric artery, in passing to the pelvis, it is evident, that this artery must be placed to the pubal side of the neck of the sac, in all cases of common inguinal hernia. The herniary substance is covered with different tunics. First, we have the peritonaeal sac itself, which immediately receives the intestines; next, we have the thin prolongation of fascia transversalis, which goes out with the cord; but, by the time that the hernia clears the inferior aperture, this may be cellular ; then we have the cremaster ; then, the fascia propria of the cord; and, lastly, the cellular substance, and common integuments. Above the inferior aperture of the canal, the sac, is covered by the muscles which cover the cord. The peritoneal coat is sometimes thickened, but it is chiefly the others, especially the fascia pi’opria and cellular coat which thicken. 4 he fibres and loops of the cremaster are often, in large hernia, strong and distinct. Stricture, or tightening of the tumour, may take place in different situations. It may be pinched or tightened by the pillars of the inferior aperture, and the border of4<^4i the fascia propria, ami intercolumnar fibres. Or, from the relation of the muscles, it is evident, that the internal oblique, or transversalis, as they arch over tlie sac and cold, may be rendered tense, and act as a band, sometimes just at the margin of the ring, oftener farther up. We have also seen, that frequently the cord passes between two fasciculi of fibres, sometimes very strong, and even in- closing it like a sheath. These may compress the sac, as if between two bands. The aperture, in the fascia, may also, if the margin be strong, and distended by the tumour, re-act on it, and grasp it. This is rendered more effective by the tendon of the transversalis. Both the muscular and tendin- ous structures act at the upper aperture, where, especially in smaller and recent hernia, the stricture usually is situated. Another cause, operating at that spot, is contraction of the neck, or orifice of the sac itself, in consequence of inflamma- tion, induced by pressure, or other causes. It is not my intention to repeat here, the usual instructions given for accomplishing reduction. I believe, in every instance after death, a hernia can, if there be no adhesion, be easih' reduced. During life, the difficulty proceeds very much from the elasticity of the protruded parts, or their curling over the margin of the stricture, during pressure, and carrying it before them. A fold may also be so placed, during pressure, as to act like a valve, and prevent the return even of flatus. The seat of a stricture also is tense, and re-acts on the part attempting to distend or force it. After death, all these causes cease, more or less, to operate. Could we, by any means, induce, without killing the patient, the same local state that exists after death, or lessen, if not destroy, the elasticity of the part, without inducing gangrene, we should generally succeed. This we cannot do; but we can approximate. I have shown, in the first volume, that we may by cold, render an intestine perfectly flaccid and pale, without killing it. The application of pounded ice, in a bladder, to the part, for such a time as effectually to act on and alter the condition of the contents, is one of the most likely means of success. This may be rendered more j)ower-445 ful, by mixing salt with the ice, and a shorter application suffices. I distinctly say, that no good can be derived unless we cool the parts within, so as to lessen greatly their elasti- city. The resisting parts are also acted on, but we chiefly look to the effect on the contents. If ice cannot be procured, solutions, generally described, may be employ- ed. The exhibition of tobacco, as a clyster, produces great depression and faintness, such as may be supposed to bring the system, and the parts, into a state as nearly similar to that of death as can safely be done; and if this remedy be combined, so as to act when the cold has produced its full effect, we should expect as much benefit as art can procure. But no means can bring the muscular and fibrous textures, into the same state during life as after death, otherwise we should scai’cely fail in reducing hernia and dislocations. The means used are, also, not so effectual, in cases where the stricture is greatly dependent on inflammatory contraction of the neck of the sac. Two causes of the fatality of the operation are, injudicious and painful, attempts to reduce—and procrastination. I believe, if surgeons went into the opposite extreme, and operated in all cases, including those which might have been reduced, fewer lives should be lost. Without going to this extravagant degree, I would strongly advise an early ope- ration, in place of persevering and fruitless attempts to reduce. I omit many particulars connected with the history of hernia, referring to works professedly on the subject; and do not give a minute description of the operation from beginning to end. Our object is, to enlarge the stricture, and a subordinate one, is to be able to act with the finger directly on individual portions of the intestines, seriatim; at least, this is sometimes necessary. In the first and essential view, we should say that, were we sure of the state of the intestine, it would be sufficient to make a small incision over the stricture, and cut it, even, without opening the sac, unless we ascer- tained that the stricture was resident in its orifice. This has been very explicitly advised by Sir Astley Cooper, who.41.6 if the neck of the sac be contracted, advises that it should, in like manner, be divided; and I believe that this will be oftener necessary than many suppose. The external incision ought to commence at the upper orifice of the canal, and is to be carried down so far as to expose just as much of the hernia as enables us to operate freely. There is no necessity, in a large hernia, to go to its extremity. The external pudic artery is cut in this incision. Next, we divide the fascia propria and cremaster, from the external aperture, downward, which is best done by cutting, cautiously and seriatim, at one point, till we come to the sac, when, on a director, we can enlarge the opening. The sac is next to be opened, near midway between the extremities of the external incision, or at least, an inch below the ring. We take hold of its front by dissecting forceps, and pull it forward, so that we can shave off as much as admits a director. If we have slit up the fascia and cremaster to the ring, we can hardly mistake any cellular layer for the sac, nor can we mistake it for intestine. The sac is rougher, though distinctly like a serous mem- brane, and its vessels, though they may be numerous, and make the membrane red, yet are irregular, whilst the intes- tine is more polished, and, however red it may be, its vessels run more in one direction, ramifying across it, if much be seen. The director being inserted in close contact with the sac, we slit upward a little way, and downward so far as enables us to introduce the finger, and feel the state of matters at the top. If the stricture be at the inferior aperture, w'e do not find it necessary to enlarge the incision in the sac. If it be, as usual, higher, w’e may find it ne- cessary to divide the sac a little farther up, for we must be able to touch the stricture easily with the finger. We have one main object in opening the sac—namely, to get to the stricture and relieve it. There can, in ordinary and favourable cases, be no possible advantage in opening the sac from top to bottom, or doing more than enabling us to operate readily on the stricture. We must do this effectually ; more, adds uselessly, to the I’isk of inflammation. If the stricture be at the external aperture, or ring, we introduce a director underi^ippcr iTitir^inj or pillurj oF tl)C tonclonj £incl divide it upwards. If it be higher, we, on the finger, carry the director through the stricture, and divide directly upward, to a suflBcient extent to enable us to reduce the bowel, but not more. We may, in common hernia, divide outward, also, for the epigastric artery is safe in either way; but, as Sir Astley Cooper observes, it is better to keep to a general rule, provided that be safe in all cases, without special exceptions. The parts cut here will be the margin of the internal oblique muscle, and the transversalis, or its tendon, and the fascia. Unless the hernia be very oblique, or the inferior aperture tight, it is not necessary to cut much, if any, of the tendon of the external oblique. The general rule is, to divide, so as to allow the finger to enter the abdominal cavity, by the side of the protruded parts. A very free incision renders the reduction more difficult, as one fold slips out as another goes in. From the view just taken, it may be asked, why not confine the external and deeper incisions to a very small space—viz., from above the inferior aperture to the seat of the stricture ? I believe that this would often be sufficient, and cause less hazard of inflammation. If we wish to cut the stricture exterior to ihe sac, sup- posing the neck of that to be not permanently contracted, we make no larger an incision than is just sufficient to expose the spot. We cut the integuments above the inferior aperture, or ring, to the extent of fully an inch, enlarging the wound afterwards, if necessary. We next divide the tendon of the external oblique, but not the ring. A thick, smooth probe is to be carried down from this, into the ring, which ascer- tains its degree of tightness. If it pass freely, and especially if, by pressing gently forward the margin of the ring, we raise it readily from the face of the sac, and make no im- pression on the tumour by pressing, we conclude that the obstacle is higher. We withdraw the probe, and expose the margin of the internal oblique and transversalis, and gently with a blunt hook, draw them up, or if necessary, divide a little of them upward. Next, we press, with two fingers, the sac gently downward, so as to elongate a little its neck, and remove448 any projection or curling up which may have existed at the aperture. A director is now to be inserted between tlie sac and the tight spot, but neither far nor forcibly, lest we perforate the peritonaeum. On this, a little of the margin is to be divided, upward, and then the director may, if neces- sai’}', be introduced with more ease, and, consequently, more safety, a little farther, or we try to move a little the constricted margin by the end of the finger, or on the nail, and cautiously cut it from its surface inwards, or, we insert a narrow probe- pointed bistoury a little way, and cut toward the surface. We may still fail to reduce the hernia, and yet the neck of the sac may not be permanently contracted. A very narrow filament of fascia, or muscle, may still be undivided, and act like a thread. A smooth probe,‘carried closely along the surface of the sac, will ascertain this; foi*, in this w'ay, it is either stopt or enters under it, and is felt to be bound by it. If we do not keep close by the neck of the sac, we pass exterior to the band, along the tract of our former division. If, on the other hand, we press too much on the sac, and especially if we give the probe a wrong direction, we pene- trate the sac. This plan has particularly been advised in large herniae; but it is applicable to all. It has also been practised in irreducible herniae, as we relieve the stricture, and may get the more recent protrusion returned. In hernia confined to the inguinal canal, the external in- cision extends from the superior to the inferior aperture. ^The tendon of the external oblique, but not its ring, is to be divided, and the deeper muscles drawn up, or, if requisite, partially cut, after which we relieve the stricture, in one or other of the ways just described. In the variety of inguinal hernia, called direct, or ventro- inguinal, the peritonaeum is not protruded by the superior aperture and along the canal, but directly above the ring, passing down under the margin of the internal oblique, and then out by the ring, along with the cord. It is clear then, that the sac must either pass through a separation of the fibres of the tendon of the transversalis, and fascia transver-449 salis, or carry both before it, as a covering, or the former may separate, and the latter remain entire. In most cases, the fascia transversalis is entire, and protruded by the sac. There is a difference of the covering of the sac in this species. It is covered by the fascia propria, but not by the cremaster, for that muscle accompanies the cord, which is covered by the sac, or lies to its outer side. It is covered, generally, by the fascia tranversalis. The course of the hernia is almost directly downward, or, if traced to its point of appearing, the obliquity, if any, at the neck, is toward the navel. The situation of the tumour is nearer the pubis, or closer by the side of the penis. The most important point of difference, however, is, that, in this species, the epigastric artery is to the ilial side of the neck of the sac, as it does not issue by the natural aperture, but nearer the pubis. The steps of the operation are similar to those described, whether we open the sac or do not. But we must recollect, that, exterior to the sac, we shall most likely find a layer of fascia, or of the conjoined tendon and fascia; and, on dividing this, we some- times find a pretty thick layer of fatty substance, which must be cleaned away, or divided, before the sac be exposed. Next, we must recollect the different relation of the epigastric artery, which is divided if we cut outward, but safe if we adhere to the general rule of cutting upward. If we do not divide the sac, the artery might perchance escape, even if we cut outward, for the director might go exterior to it, as well as to the peritonaeum. Sometimes the opening of the peritonaeal process, which accompanies the cord, and envelops the testicle, does not close at the superior aperture of the canal, and hernia may take place into the tunica vaginalis, which is then the only herniary sac, and contains also the testicle, in common with the intestine. This is called hernia congenita, and is distin- guished, not merely by its existing from birth, though that is not always the case, but by the testicle being so involved in the contents, that it cannot in general be felt, so long as the tunica vaginalis remains filled. In this hernia, an incision to the bottom of the tunica not only renders it difficult to II. 2 G450 keep the testicle covered, but also inflames it greatly, and adds much to the hazard. We should conduct the operation on the principle already laid down ; and, if the sac he opened, the incision ought not to be larger than is just necessary. Sometimes the intestine is constricted pretty low in the sac, and, in that case, it must he opened farther. There is a variety of this hernia, where a herniary sac pro- trudes into the tunica vaginalis, so that the bag is double. The next point for consideration is, the crural ring, or what ought rather, to prevent mistake, to be called the crural sac, or funnel. If we look at the inside of Poupart’s liga- ment, in situ^ we observe, just at the pubal side of the vein, a very slight depression of the peritonaeum. On removing that membrane, we see that the fascia dips down there, so as to form a funnel, or pouch, generally about three-eighths of an inch deep, from the margin of Poupart’s ligament, but some- times double that. If we trace the fascia from the ti’ansver- salis muscle, we find that it expands on the crescentic im- plantation, and extends a little beyond it. Then it dips down as described, and is reflected upon the vein, and then back again into the pelvis. If we trace from the pelvis, we find it going down on the pectineus, and then sending a layer up in front, to Poupart’s ligament. In one w^ord, the fascia forms a sac between the vein and crescentic implanta- tion, and the aperture, or mouth of this, is nearly circular, whence its name, and about three-eighths of an inch in diameter. The pubal margin is considered to be bounded by the crescentic implantation, or Gimbernat’s ligament; but it is really formed by the fascia, which extends a little more ilial than that implantation. In like manner, its front is said to be formed by the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament, and certainly this braces most firmly the anterior margin of the orifice. The ligament here is broad, forming a floor, on which the cord, or round ligament lies, and the posterior border of this, arches off, to form the crescentic implantation. The distance of the pubal margin, from the tubercle, varies from three-quarters of an inch to an inch and a quarter, which is a very common distance. The mouth is451 covered by a layer of cellular substance, or sometimes by a thin lamina of fascia. The face, or pubal side of the sac has one or two openings for the transmission of the lymphatics, which enter by it, and some call this the cribriform fascia; others, give that appellation to a superficial layer over it in the thigh. This sac is sometimes very thin, and almost cellular, so that it is easily torn, and is not observed ; but when the fascia is strong, tliex'e is no mistaking it. Besides this sac, we have a prolongation of the fascia along the vessels, forming a sheath for them at their exit, called the crural sheath. We must not confound the two. The sac contains loose cellular substance, in which are the lymphatics, and sometimes a gland. If we dissect off the skin and glands at the top of the thigh, we find that the sac is not only covered by the superficial fascia, but overhung by a falciform portion of the deep fascia. To understand this, I remark, that, near the groin, the muscles may be divided into two sets, one a little more prominent than the other. The inner, consisting of the pectineus and triceps longus, is more sunk, or on a lower level, than the outer, consisting of the sarto- rius, rectus, &c. Between the two, in an angle, are the intermediate muscles, on which the vessels rest—viz., the iliacus and psoas. Now, although the fascia covering these be continuous, or one united sheet, yet, we may, with advan- tage, trace it from two sources, or describe it as made up of two portions, which become continuous. One, which may be called external, rises from, or is iden- tified with, Poupart’s ligament, and the tendon of the external oblique. Not that I say that the tendon is con- tinued down the thigh, but we cannot mark a distinct boundary. Now this portion of fascia is deficient over the pectineus. It forms an arched border downward and out- ward, like a scythe, the point of which begins, just, under the lunated margin, of the external aperture of the inguinal canal, and its breadth, there, is about a quarter of an inch. It sweeps downward, and is lost in the general fascia, above an inch below the ligament, sometimes sooner. At the inside, a similar, but smaller, limb extends down to the fascia, covering452 the pectineus, sometimes like a distinct band, oftener like a continuation of tlie falciform process, giving the whole the appearance of an arch. Another, or internal, division passes out from the pelvis, tinder Poupart’s ligament, in front of the vein, and by the crural aperture. This not only forms the crural sac, but is expanded on the pectineus and triceps longus, and identified with the other portion just described. At the sac, it is reflected on the inner margin of the vein, and thence to the inner surface of the falciform process, which thus consists of two layers, one derived from the external, another from , the internal fascia. This process, which I first detected in an oedematous subject, and have never since failed to find, over- hangs the femoral vein. The vena saphena passes under it to enter the former: cellular substance, fat, and lymphatic glands, fill the rest of the space. If we clean the part, and introduce the point of the finger under the process, and on the pectineus muscle, we feel, in front, the bridling of the superior limb of the process, and, a little higher and farther back, the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament. At the outside, we shall have the vein covered with fascia; and, at the upper part, and also toward the vein, we shall have the crural sac. No probe can enter the abdomen till this sac be torn. If we examine from within, and remove the peri- tonaeum, we find the mouth of the sac, and covered, as already described, by a thin layer. Femoral hernia usually enters the crural sac, and distends it, so that it bulges out, under the upper and outer margin of the falciform process. If we dissect from without, we have, first, the skin ; then, the superficial fascia, with lym- phatic glands and cellular substance ; then, the crural sac, or fascia propria of the hernia, beneath which is frequently an irregular layer of fatty substance; lastly, the peritonaeum, covering the intestine. The sac rests on the pectineus, and is traversed, at the top, by the upper limb of the falciform process, or summit of the arch of the fascia of the thigh. If we examine the mouth of the peritonaeal sac, we find it em- braced by the mouth of the crural sac, which is bounded45S behind by the bone and origin of tlie pectineus; in front, by the posterior border of the channel in Poupart’s ligament; on the inside, by the crescentic implantation, and its cover- ing of fascia; on the outside, by the femoral vein. Now, what is it which tightens the herniary sac? It may be the edge of the falciform process; but this is more likely to obstruct reduction, than to be the sole seat of stricture. If we press the hernia, it is apt to curl over the process, rather than recede under it. Still, the process may not only aid the production of strangulation, but actually cause it, partly, by its own direct pressure, and, partly, from the circumstance, that its inner surface is lined, as we have seen, by a layer reflected from the crural sac, which may be thus acted on. The division of the edge has, of itself, been sufficient for permitting reduction ; and I am certain, that, in the old operation, where the ligament was supposed to be divided, it was only this part of the process which was cut. The anterior boundary of the crural sac is frequently the cause of stricture. This is formed by the pretty sharp posterior border of the channel, or groove, in the ligament, and which is stretched, or pressed on, by the sac. If, in the natural state, we insert the finger up along the pectineus into the crural aperture, or ring, we feel this edge very distinctly; and, in hernia, it must bind the parts in proportion as it is pressed forward by them. The fascia, which forms the mouth of the crural sac, adheres to this border, and if the one be stretclied, or act as a band, so must the other. The whole circumference of the fascial mouth of the crural sac may constrict the herniary sac, or this latter may, by in- flammatory action, have its neck thickened and contracted. It is necessary to make a distinction between the mouth and the neck of the sac, whether crural or herniary. The mouth of both is at the crural ring. The neck is the narrow canal, extending from that to the margin of the falciform process, where the sac expands. The sac is like a round bottle, with a short neck. In front, if the process be cut, we measure it from the anterior margin of'Poupart’s ligament to the pos- terior, which is very little higher, but more backward.454 In operating, we make an incision in the skin, like an inverted T, the superior line extending to a little above Poupart’s ligament. The flaps are to be dissected down, and, if the superficial fascia have not been thin, and turned down with them, it is next to be divided. Sometimes it is of considerable tbickness, and tbe glands involved in it are enlarged. We now come to the fascia propria, or ' crural sac, which is often mistaken for the herniary sac. It is to be freely opened, when we shall frequently find a layer of fatty substance. This being cleaned off to a suf- ficient extent, the true sac is exposed, which is to be opened in the usual way, when, often, a small quantity of fluid spouts out. The sac being slit up, the finger is to be carried in front of its contents, to the edge of the process, which is to be divided up to the ligament, on a director, or by Sir Astley Cooper’s bistoury. The neck of the sac is, at the same time, cut at its under end, just before it expands. This, if the seat of the stricture have been at the process, which will be felt to bind the sac tightly, will be suffi- cient to enable us to effect reduction; but, if it be not, we have lost nothing, for we have only taken a step pre- liminary to the next—namely, the division of the mouth of the sac, and its circumambient margin. The tightest and most efficient part of the margin, is the front, formed by the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament, which may be felt like a narrow tense band, stretched across the sac. It is not in a line up from the anterior margin, but obliquely back from it, and is aided by its covering of fascia transversalis going down into the ring. We divide it by cutting forward, either by a probe-pointed bistoury on a director, or by Sir Astley Cooper’s knife. The border alone, with a very little more of the ligament, is all that we require to divide. The anterior margin remains untouched. The round ligament is safe, neither should the cord in the male be in any danger. The posterior border, and even the floor of the channel, were that necessary, may be divided with safety, by any man who ought to operate. This incision, at one and the same time, divides the mouth of the peritonaea!, or herniary sac.455 and of the crural sac, or prolongation of fascia, and also the border of the ligament adherent to that fascia. We are not to cut deeper there, nor beyond the border, for it is useless, and endangers the obturator artery. It would, if necessary, be better to cut a little of the ligament, as it is forming the channel, not going quite through to the floor on which the round ligament lies. The obturator often comes off" from the epigastric, runs along the fascia, above the poste- rior border of the groove, and winds down, close, by the lunated margin of the crescentic implantation. 1 first detected the falciform process, in the beginning of this cen- tury, in an oedematous female, and, in her, the artery ran thus. It was, at that time, asserted, that this origin was rare, but it is now admitted to be exceedingly frequent. It still is, on high authority, maintained, that, in most cases of this kind, the artery must go down by the outer margin of the hernia. This can only be, if the artery do not make a sweep, and attach itself, which it often does, to the lunated margin. If the artery run so, it can only be avoided, by not carrying the incision high, for the artery is not so low as the mere border. A small artery often runs pretty near the bordei’, from the epigastric to the pubis. It has been proposed to cut inward—that is, to divide the crescentic implantation and the fascia which covers it. This, inevitably, must divide the obturator artery, should it be attached to the pubal margin of the ring. But, besides this objection, we find that a much more extensive incision will be required, to relieve the stricture, than if it be made in front, where the finger ascertains it to be most powerful. We must also go deeper with the bistoury, for the neck is longer here than in front, and the incision must be more difficult, and the intestine more endangered. Sir Astley Cooper’s arguments on this point are very conclusive; and whoever dissects the crescentic implantation, must see, that, if traced from the lunated margin, it goes obliquely inward, or toward the pubis, and backwai'd. The bistoury must be carried, to a considerable extent, obliquely inward. It has been proposed, in femoral hernia, to divide the456 stricture, without opening the herniary sac; but this has been restricted to large hernije. When the hernia descends into the sheath of the vessels, it is first by the inside of the vein, and then partly on its face. I do not know any peculiarity in the operation; for, though the herniary sac be in contact with the vein, yet we have no occasion to go exterior to it, and expose that vessel. Femoral hernia may curl over the top of the falciform process and the edge of Poupart’s ligament, so as to re- semble ventro-inguinal hernia. It may also lacerate, or burst through, the crural sac, so as to be divided into two tumours, or to assume a nodulated appearance. CHAP. V. OF THE ANATOMY OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. When we look at the front of the thigh, after the muscles are dissected, we observe, that, at the very top, the Tensor and Sartorius bound the outside. At the inside, we have the marginal line, formed by the Gracilis. Outward from this, is the Adductor Longus, and then the Pectineus. Between the outer and inner set, we have, in front, the Iliacus and Psoas. About a hand’s breadth below Pou- part’s ligament, we see the Rectus coming out from between the tensor and sartorius, forming the anterior line of the thigh, and obliquely crossed by the superficial muscle, the sartorius. On the outside, between the tensor and rectus, the Vastus Externus appears, and is continued down to the patella and knee. On the inside, from the adductor longus, downward, we see, in like manner, the Vastus Internus. If, having removed the sartorius, we cut across the rectus, and turn it down, we find, that we cannot displace it fartherthan within a hand’s breadth of the patella, for there its tendon is identified with, and bound down by, the fibrous terminations of the vasti and crureus. We expose, how- ever, a mass of flesh, clinging closely round the bone, from the inner margin of the linea aspera, all the way round to the outer. It is only in that line that the mass is defi- cient, and that line is occupied by the insertion of the adductor magnus, and on the outside of that, by the origin of the short head of the biceps. The line formed by the attachment of these two muscles, is the only interruption to the complete encircling of the shaft (from the upper part, down to the divarication, of the linea aspera, to the two condyles) by this mass, which, when examined, is found to consist of three portions, or to be a triventer muscle. 1st. The Vastus externus, which rises from the base of the great trochanter, and thence down from the linea aspera, and its continuation, toward the outer condyle. The origin is seen by drawing forward the tensor, and backward the gluteus minimus. Part of the muscular fibres cover the fibrous capsule of the knee joint, and the whole ends in a broad tendon, which goes obliquely downward and forward, to be united with the tendon of the rectus, and then, along the side of the condyle, to the margin of the patella and its ligament, down to the tibia. In this course, it is united to the fibrous capsule of the joint, if it do not, with the expansion of the other muscles, actually form it. Besides this attachment, it also crosses under the tendon of the rectus, in a lunated form, to be identified with that of the vastus internus, and of the crureus. 2d. The Vastus internus rises from the base of the little trochanter, the linea aspera, and its continuation, to the inner condyle. It is implanted like the externus, only on the inside, instead of the outside. 3d. If we draw outward the vastus externus, we see the Crureus rising from the front of the bone, about an inch and half below the top of the great trochanter. It continues between the vasti, with which it is intimately connected, down to near the patella. About a hand’s breadth above that, it is inter- mixed with tendinous fibres, and presently ends in a tendon..458 whlcli becomes united with that of the vasti, and with the under surface of the rectus tendon. The muscular fibres adherfi to the face of the bone, till the synovial membrane commences, and then they are attached to it, so that they can pull it up. The rectus muscle covers this one, and is firmly connected, at its margin, to the vasti, by strong fascia. Let us next attend to the adductors. On the inside of the thigh, its margin covered by the gracilis, and rising from the front of the pubis, to the inside of its tubercle, we have the adductor Longus, a large and strong muscle, which'is inserted into the linea aspera, from the termination of that of the Brevis, for fully three inches down. The lower half of its implantation is intimately connected with the adductor magnus. The Brevis is also a strong _^muscle. It rises lower than the longus, and from the ramus of the pubis. Its implantation is into the linea aspera, from the little trochanter downward, for above four inches, and till it meet that of the longus. It is hid by this last, and by the pectineus. If we draw these asunder, we see the brevis covering the obturator externus, except for a very little at the upper part. If this, and the other muscles were cut away, we should then see the obturator entirely, and going to the trochanteric fossa. If we look at the implantation of the brevis, we see that the pectineus is inserted just in front of it, for the space of an inch and a half, down from the little trochanter. It is a strong muscle, about an inch and a half broad, marching with the outer margin of the adductor longus. The adductor Magnus rises from the ramus of the pubis, and ischium, even toward the tuberosity, and is implanted into the linea aspera, from its commencement down to, at least, its bifurcation. The upper margin is bounded by the lower one of the quad- ratus. Its inner, by the gracilis, and, at the end, it is inti- mately connected with the longus; and, from the union of both, a pretty strong tendon passes directly down to the top of the inner condyle. The under margin, partly tendinous, but chiefly muscular, about four inches above the condyle, arches from the linea aspera to this tendon, so as to form a lunated border, looking downward. Below that, fascia,459 more or less distinct, intervenes, having, also, a lunated border, looking upward. Through the opening thus formed, and more fully described afterwards, the artery and vein pass, to get to the ham. No pressure can be made on the vessels by the action of the muscle, for the aperture is not a mere slit, but a lunated opening, protected also from pressure by the agency of the round tendon. Turning to the back of the thigh, we see distinctly, on removing the fascia, the Gluteus maximus. Its superior margin is marked by a line from the crest, one inch and a half forward from the posterior spine, to about one inch and a half above the trochanter, though the insertion be lower. This also shows the meeting of this with the medius, which shelves under it. The inferior margin is in a line, from the end of the coccyx to the outside of the thigh, about six inches and a half, below the top of the trochanter. It begins to be implanted into the linea aspera below the top of the trochanter, and it is continued down for about five inches. Cutting it across, and turning it aside, we see the whole of the Medius, which rises from the crest and dorsum of the ilium, from its anterior spine, to the notch. The under, or posterior margin, is in a line from the posterior spine of the ilium to the top of the trochanter. It marches with the pyriformis. The anterior margin is in a line downward, from the superior spine of that bone, to the outside of the thigh. This is connected with the Tensor. It is inserted into the top or margin of the trochanter, and all along its front, by a very thick tendon. The Minimus, is seen by raising the medius. It rises from the anterior spine, back to the notch, and often down to the spine of the ischium, and is inserted, by a broad tendon, into the inner surface of the trochanter, just within the medius. Its anterior margin is much the same with that of the medius, and it is covered by the tensor, and, along with the rectus, it covers the outer and anterior part of the capsule. If we remove the gluteus medius, we see better the deepest layer. Tracing downwards, we have, first, the gluteus-minimus, either skirting the upper margin of the pyriformis, or passing so far under, according as it continues more or less its origin, down along the notch. The pyriformis is next, then the gemellus superior, then the inferior, with the tendon of the obturator internus almost hid between them, part of its muscular fibres seen near the notch. Lastly, we have the quadratus, covering and hiding the continuation of the obturator externus. The pyriformis, at its issuing, is an inch and a half broad, and pretty thick. The gemelli, in- cluding the obturator internus, fully an inch and a quarter. The quadratus, nearly two inches. The implantation of the tendons is important. First, we have that of the gluteus minimus inserted, broad and strong, into the inner surface of the trochanter, from the front, up to its top, and a little way down behind. The pyriformis is inserted just at its posterior margin. Then, at the root, or in the fossa, we have, highest, the tendon of the superior gemellus, then that of the obturator internus, then the gemellus inferior, and, lastly, that of the obturator externus. Thus the root of the neck of the bone is, for a considerable part of its circum- ference, embraced by strong tendons. The quadratus has no part in this, but is inserted into the posterior margin of the great trochanter, beginning about an inch below its top. The great mass of flesh behind, is formed by the ham- string muscles, which arise from the tuberosity, by a thick and strong origin, covered by the gluteus maximus. They soon appear from under its margin, and become broader as they descend to the under third of the thigh. They are bound together by the common fascia; but, on removing this, we see the division into an outer and inner portion, separated from each other, as they become tendinous, near the joint, but requiring more dissection to separate them above. The outer portion, or biceps, receives a second head from the linea aspera, beginning as high as the termination of the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and continuing its attach- ment for above five inches, or till about three inches and a half of the top of the condyle. It is in the line between the adductor magnus and vastus externus. Its tendon goes to461 the side and back of the head of the fibula, and also sends an expansion obliquely down over the origin of the peroneus longus. The inner portion seems at first to consist chiefly of one muscle, tlie semitendinosus, rising along with the biceps. It is almost united with it for a hand’s breadth below the tuberosity, and continues attached to it till about halfway down the thigh, when it divaricates a little, and presently still more, to get to the inner side of the ham. On drawing it a little aside, and dissecting upward, from a second tendon that we see, a deeper muscle, to which that belongs, and which had been covered by it, is exposed. This is the semi- membranosus, arising, also, from the tuberosity, but more forward. The margin of this muscle, for more than half way up the thigh, is seen between the semitendinosus and gracilis. On removing the strong fascia, at the ham, we see the tendons. On the outside, that of the biceps, with still some muscular fibres, passes down the back, and partly the side, of the condyle, to the head of the fibula. It is bound to the outer origin of the gastrocnemius by fascia. On the inside, that of the semitendinosus is nearest the median line. It goes down to the head of the tibia, bound to the inner origin of the gastrocnemius. Next, we have that of the semimembranosus, in a manner hid by the other, implanted more inward, and not quite so low. That of the gracilis is still more inward, and goes more forward, on the tibia. The sartorius is muscular over the condyle; then its tendon goes still more forward. That of the triceps is hid by this muscle. The whole thigh is covered by a fascia, very strong at the outside, less so elsewhere. We shall understand it better if we trace it round from the outside, under the rectus, and over the vastus externus, crureus, vastus internus, triceps, and flexors, behind, round again to the outside. We shall thus see that it covers, and binds together, all these muscles, and also passes under the great femoral vessels, as it goes from the vastus to the adductors, whilst another layer passes over them. Next, we find, that it not only attaches the two margins of the rectus to the vastus, but a layer can be traced462 on the surface of the rectus, which is thus contained in a sheath of fascia. The sartorius, which lies on the surface, has, in like manner, a thin layer going over and fixing it, so that this muscle also is in a sheath. Lastly, the tensor is implanted into the strong fascia by a broad, thin tendon, lost in or on it. This construction requires attention, for as the fascia con- tinues down, not only to the knee, but along the leg, we find that, if pricked, or otherwise hurt, it inflames, and pus forms beneath it, which may be long retained, and extensively undermine it. About the knee joint, if this be let out early, and the limb kept easy, and the parts kept in contact by a roller, the patient recovers. But, if allowed to remain, the joint becomes stiff, perhaps irreparably diseased. In all such affections, we must not forget the account given of the im- plantation of the tendons about the joint. In other instances of fascial inflammation, the matter extends along the whole thigh; and, if the patient is to be saved, it is only by judicious openings and methodical bandaging. From in- flammation of veins, which are involved in the fascia, we often have it extensively affected, and the whole limb swells to a great size. The connexions and fixtures of the fascia, also explain how, in puncture of the great artery, the swelling may be much circumscribed, and even the pulsating character of the aneurism lost. Let us next attend to the anatomy of dislocation and fracture. We cannot study either, perfectly, by artificial displacement, but we gain, thereby, much knowledge, which may be advanced and improved by cases occurring in the living subject. The most frequent species is that on the dorsum; and a little consideration must convince us, that the appearances cannot, in every instance, be equally well marked. It is evi- dent, that the shortening of the limb must be proportioned to the elevation of the head of the bone, which is not alike in every instance, neither is it always carried to the same de- gree backward. Much depends on the direction of tiie forcing cause, and its elevating power, as well as the degiee463 to which the muscles are torn. The head may be placed on the upper part of the back of the acetabulum, between the inferior anterior spinous process, and the notch, the top of the cervix being level with the margin of the acetabulum, and the head resting on the gluteus minimus, or pushing it up; or, it may be carried more upward, resting on the gluteus medius, near its inferior border, which traverses, or bounds the cervix. It either goes out, so as to pass above the pyriformis, or that muscle is torn. If not torn, it must be much stretched, and its tendon may either cross the upper part of the neck, which will prevent the head from going so high as it otherwise would do, or it may go along the under surface, as that of the obturator internus does. In the former case, the neck is embraced between two tendons. If the gluteus minimus rise low, as it sometimes does, it must, if not torn, curve over the neck. The obturator externus is stretched, goes along the back of the root of the neck, and, like the others, will draw the head of the bone against the ilium. The gemelli and quadratus are stretched ; so are the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor brevis. The other adductors, the rectus, and hamstring muscles, are relaxed or shortened. It is evident, that all those muscles which are stretched in one case, may, in another, be torn ; and it is doubtful if any dislocation of this bone take place without partial or entire division of a greater or less number of muscles, especially the smaller ones behind. The round ligament is always ruptured, and the capsule must be more or less torn. It is important to remark, that the anterior part is least apt to be torn, and, in that case, is stretched, like the tendon of the psoas, across the mouth of the aceta- bulum, but more tensely, and must draw the head against the ilium, rendering reduction more difficult. It is not the muscles which are stretched, which alone resist; for those which are either little affected, or are shortened, counteract us such as the adductor longus, and magnus, glutei, and flexors of the leg. We recognise this luxation by the short- ening of the limb, accompanied by preternatural immobility. The shortening is not less than an inch and a half, some-4C4 times an inch more, and is generally most perceptible when sitting. The foot is turned inward, and the knee drawn inward, and a little advanced on the other; but, when ljung on the sound side, it may be behind the other one; the great toe rests on the instep of the other foot. No force, short of that which reduces the dislocation, can elongate the limb, nor can the toes be turned out as usual, nor the thigh abducted. If thin, the head of the bone can be felt, and even seen, forming a tumour in its new situation. If not reduced, the head of the bone is altered in its shape, and the neck shortened by absoi’ption, a new joint is formed, some- times a distinct bony socket, and the limb rendered still shorter. The acetabulum, at the same time, becomes shal- lower, and its cavity fills up with ligamentous substance. Some, can walk with a staff in a few weeks, although the bone be still displaced, but others, cannot do without a crutch for years, if ever. The manipulation in reduction, consists in fixing the pelvis, and extending the thigh, by means of pulleys, in a direction which wdll draw the head toward the acetabulum—namely, downward, and forward, and inward. When the head approaches the acetabulum, we should gently rotate the knee outward, which rolls the bone into the socket, and this is farther assisted by drawing or pressing the upper part of the thigh in the proper direction. This last, of itself, might do more harm than good, by pressing the head against the ilium, or jamming it against the bulging part of the acetabulum. Adduction not only relaxes some of the muscles, but also the band of capsule crossing the cavity. If we do not succeed by this process, it may be useful, whilst we keep up extension, to abduct the thigh a little, at the same time that we rotate outward. There are instances where moderate rotation inwai’ds, has thrown the bone into the socket. In dislocation into the notch, the head of the bone may pass either by the upper margin of the pyriformis, or be- tween its lower margin and the gemellus superior, or even between this latter and the tendon of the obturator internus ; but it always rests on the pyriformis. The same set ofi<C)5 muscles, as in the former case, are torn, relaxed, or stretched, though in a different degree, owing to the head of the bone not being so high, but farther back, than it generally is in that case. The gemelli and quadratus often suffer most. The capsule is either torn all round, or entire at the outer side. In this dislocation, the limb is only half an inch shorter than the other, unless the head be rather lower than usual. The foot is turned inward, so that the great toe rests on the ball of the other foot. To reduce, bend the leg, make extension in the direction of the acetabulum—that is, forward—then abduct, slowly, the thigh, continuing the extension, so as to roll the Head into the socket. If this fail, still extend, and try adducting it, so as to draw the head over the rim of the acetabulum. The head may also be dislocated into the lesser sciatic notch, resting on the spine of the ischium, above the inferior ligament below, and the back of the tuberosity before. It passes be- tween the inferior gemellus and the quadratus; but the former, with the other gemellus and obturator tendon, are likely to be torn, or must be stretched. The gluteus medius and minimus are stretched, and so are the pectinaeus and adductor brevis. The trochanter is farther down, farther back, and sunk ; the toes turned in, and the limb elongated to the extent of two inches. In one case, detailed by Mr. Keate, the thigh was much bent on the body, the leg as much bent, and great abduction, the knee and foot much everted, and the limb elongated to the extent of from three, to three inches and a half. This account is circumstantial; but it must surely be an error of the press when it is said that the toes were everted. The spine of the ischium is about two inches lower than the upper margin of the acetabulum ; consequently, the upper surface of the head must be more than an inch below the spine, or very near the end of the tuberosity, to produce the elongation described. This was a secondary dislocation, for the head appears to have been first thrown into the foramen ovale, and then back. In reducing, we ought to draw the head in a direction upw^ard and forward, in a line toward the superior spine of the ilium, and, when level with the outer II. 2 H466 margin of the acetabulum, abduct the knee. If we do so too soon, the head of the bone is thrown into the foramen thyroideum. I only know this dislocation from studies on the dead subject, and from a preparation I saw in St. Bar- tholomew’s, In dislocation into the foramen thyroideum, the limb is about two inches longer, and advanced before the other; it is also abducted, and the toes turned outward. The tro- chanter is farther from the spine of the ilium, and more inward than natural. The head rests chiefly on the obtura- tor externus, the adductor brevis being pushed downward and inward, if not torn. It is covered by the pectinaeus, which is, also, often lacerated. The posterior small muscles —namely, pyriformis, &c., are torn, or greatly stretched. All the glutei are stretched, the minimus especially, at its lower margin. The adductors are lengthened. The psoas and iliaeus are not much affected, but rather tightened. They cross the neck. The capsule is very tense when it is not torn. If not reduced, the obturator externus is absorbed, and the foramen converted, by bony deposit, into a new acetabulum. This, and other changes, in the old acetabulum, are illustrated by a preparation of Sir Astley Cooper’s. Re- duction is effected by fixing the pelvis, so as to prevent it moving with the thigh. Extension can rarely be required in any degree. It is sufficient to adduct the thigh forcibly, which turns the head of the bone over the shallowest part of the acetabulum into its place. It is well observed by Sir Astley Cooper, that if, in doing this, we carry forward the knee, the head of the bone passes beneath the acetabulum, and is thrown into the sacx-o-sciatic notch. It would be well to have the sound thigh directed rather backward, or it may be directed forward, and the dislocated thigh drawn inward behind it. Dislocation upward, may take place in different directions. In the usual kind, the head passes up between the iliaeus and pectinaeus, if the latter be not torn. The tendons of the iliaeus and psoas are stretched over the neck, and the sub- stance of the former may be raised, so as to partly cover the467 head. The gluteus minimus, and part at least of the medius, with the posterior rotators, are on the stretch, or lacerated, and the same may be said of the adductor brevis. The capsule is extensively lacerated. The head of the bone is on the pubis, higher than Poupart’s ligament. The tro- chanter lies either at the anterior margin of the acetabulum, or may correspond more to its mouth, if the head be less forward. The femoral vessels are to the inner side of the head, but if it go more outward, the relation is reversed. This dislocation, upward and forward, from the acetabulum, is recognised by the limb being about an inch shorter, the foot is turned out, and the thigh a little abducted, and slightly bent forward. The head is felt on the pubis, at the groin, or it may be higher, having, in that case, torn up Poupart’s ligament. The reduction is accomplished by fixing the pelvis, and drawing the thigh downward, back- ward, and outward. We also, with a towel, draw the upper part of the thigh a little forward, especially if the head be high, in order to make it clear the pubis. We next, when it has been di’awn to the side of the cavity, rotate inward to throw the head into the cavity. In the dislocation, more directly upward, the head of the bone is farther out, being lodged on the pubis and ilium, close by the inside of the inferior spinous process. The trochanter is higher than natural, and on a line, only, a little to the outside of the superior spinous process, consequently its proper projection is lost. Poupart’s ligament must be torn up, from its attachment to the iliacus muscle, and that muscle so far raised or torn. The adductors, posterior portion of the gluteus medius, the minimus, and small rota- ors, must be stretched or torn, and the capsule lacerated, ihe limb is two inches shorter, and, in Mr. Morgan’s case, the foot was so much everted, as to give the toes a direction backward. The limb was so adducted as to throw the heel over the instep of the other foot, the projection of the tro- chanter was lost, and the head felt under Poupart’s ligament, by the inside of the spinous processes. In Dr. Cummin’s case, the head was more outward, being lodged between the468 superior and inferior spinous processes of the iHum. The limb was still shorter. To reduce, fix the pelvis, and pull the thigh downward, and a little outward; then, when the head is on a line with the brim of the acetabulum, roll it in, by rotating inwards, and, at the same time, bending the thigh on the body. If not reduced, a new acetabulum is formed; and, in Sir Astley Cooper’s preparation, in Guy’s Hospital, there is, between the old and the new acetabulum, an articulating surface for receiving the top of the trochanter, which thus becomes both a prop for the trunk, and a point of motion. The fibrous capsule of the joint rises from the circum- ference of the acetabulum, and goes to be implanted allround the root of the neck. Above, it I’eaches very near the trochanteric fossa, and, behind and before, to within a little of the respective interti-ochanteric lines, intermixing with the implantation of the tendons, already described at page 460. It is strongest at the upper and anterior part, being strength- ened in front by a band of fibres descending from the in- ferior spine of the ilium. A synovial membrane lines this capsule, reflected from its cervical attachment, up along the neck, head of the bone, and ligamentum teres, to the acetabu- lum. The periosteum and synovial membrane conduct small vessels along the neck, between the head, and point of reflec- tion of the membi'ane, at the root of the neck. These enter into the bone, and nourish it; hence, if torn, there is a deficiency of nutriment. Some also pass along the ligamentum teres. These arteries come either from the internal circum- I flex, or obturator, but frequently from both. A fracture of the cervix, to be quite without the capsule, must be close by the trochanter, and go obliquely down, both in front and behind, at, or without, the respective intertrochanter lines. It. may be a little nearer the head, without being within the synovial membrane, or tearing the vascular ramifications. Whenever the fracture is in the cervix, properly so called— that is, beyond its root, it is within the capsule. The upper surface of the neck is five-eighths of an inch lower than the very margin or rim of the head ; three-quarters Ii<69 of an inch lower than its upper surface, or the upper margin of the acetabulum. The length of the neck, from the root of the trochanter, above, to the rim of the head, is an inch ; at the back, it is a quarter more. The neck, within the capsule, is one inch and a quarter thick, and one and a half from above to below. If, therefore, the bone be not crushed, the one surface cannot get quite beyond the other, unless the shaft rise an inch and a half, or the portion attached to the head be turned much down. From the top of the root of the trochanter, down to the under surface of tlie root of the cervix, is two inches; hence, the shaft must be more elevated in fracture without the capsule, in order to get beyond the surface belonging to the neck. The cervix stands obliquely up from the shaft, and must naturally keep the latter distant from the acetabulum ; but, if broken, that may not only come nearer, but rise higher. From all this, it follows, that, if we get rid of the whole neck, and bring the shaft in contact with the head, at the acetabulum, the elevation of the bone should be from five-eighths to three- quarters of an inch ; if carried beyond the head, there is no definite limitation. The capsule must, if entire, check the elevation. It is difficult to press, in that case, the trochanter more than a quarter of an inch higher; but to what greater extent the capsule may be stretched by falls, or great force, it is impossible to say. If the upper part be torn, we can press the bone up half an inch. If the under part be also lacerated, it may be pressed up nearly an inch. To what extent the capsule may be stretched, by great force, in the living subject, without laceration, is not decided. It is further evident, that, when the shaft rises, if the root of the neck be in contact with the portion attached to the head, it must turn it upward; and, therefore, if union take place, the head stands out more directly from the shaft; its obliquity is diminished. The neck of the bone is affected by age. Until fifty and upwards, the cancelli are compact, and com- paratively small; the shell of the bone, at the cervix, is hard and strong, particularly at the under part, where it resists, like an arch. But, at advanced age, the cancelli become470 larger, and even the crust of bone more brittle. There is a marked difference in the resistance to the saw, in making a longitudinal section of the two bones. Hence the cervix is more easily broken after fifty, and more readily within the capsule. Hence, also (although it may happen at any period), the cervix, when broken near its root, is sometimes driven into the cancelli of the shaft, and fixed there; or the whole circumference may not enter, but only the under half, or two-thirds, so that the neck is partly embedded in, partly laid across, the top of the shaft. The union, in extra-capsular, is effected, as in other frac- tures, by bone. The obliquity of the neck is preserved more or less according as the shaft is kept down. The surfaces unite, but often there is exuberant deposition around the trochanter. If the neck be driven into the cancelli, it may unite with the shaft in that manner, or it may remain long loose, yet so embraced, as to prevent detachment, and, ultimately, union takes place; or, the pressure of the end of the neck, on its former site, may cause absorption of that part, forming a hollow, into which it sinks. In both cases, the length and obliquity are diminished. It appears, that the neck may be only partially broken—that is, the shell, at the under surface, and part of the cancelli; and, in this case, the shell is usually carried a little way into the cancelli of the shaft, and the obliquity somewhat lessened. Such cases are, perhaps, not decided to be fractures till a section be made. In intra-capsular fracture, the union is rarely—some say, never—accomplished by bone. Sir Astley Cooper first made the strong distinction between the mode of union in the two species, believing that, in this case, the nutritive vessels being injured, bone was not formed. We find,— 1st, That the head remains in the acetabulum, attached by the round ligament. Its cartilage is absorbed, and its surface exhibits many small white patches, like ivory. It is changed in shape, and sometimes expanded, in which case, the acetabulum is enlarged. This is lined, more or less, with ivory- looking substance, and, in certain cases, the head cannot,471 without violence, be detached. 2d, The neck is absorbed, so that the shaft is brought nearer the acetabulum. The surface may be covered with ivory-looking substance, whilst the surface of the head is slightly hollowed by the pressure; or, on the other hand, it may expand somewhat. 3d, The capsule, which is generally entire, is greatly thickened, and so is the synovial membrane, not only where it lines this, but along the remaining part of the neck. It contains more fluid, in which are, sometimes, detached portions of cartilagi- nous-looking substance. 4th, Bands of ligamentous substance pass from the thickened capsule to the margin of the two fractured substances, and occasionally part goes between them. These bands keep the bones so far in contact, but this is, some- times, more effectually done by an intermediate and uniform layer of ligamentous substance, uniting tlie surfaces. The thickened capsule, with the assistance of these bands, forms a modified articulation in the site of the acetabulum. 5th, There may be altogether a new articulation, formed beyond the acetabulum, if the capsule be torn, and the neck carried up without it. In one case, the head was absorbed to a great extent, and what remained was united to the acetabulum, like an effusion of osseous matter. The margins of the latter were also more or less destroyed, especially at the outside. There was an irregular deposition of bone, on what should have been the outside of the acetabulum. The neck was quite gone, and the shaft, at the root of the trochanter, flattened, so as to lie on the new shallow articu- lating surface. The whole was surrounded by a thick, imperfectly organised capsule. I have seen exactly the same in the dog, in a case of more than ten years’ standing, only the remains of the head were more perfect, and the arti- culating surface of the shaft and ilium polished. 6th, The irregular deposition of osseous matter, which sometimes takes place, shows, that, although the obstacles are great to ossific union of the fractured surfaces, yet it is not impossible, and, in point of fact, even discarding those cases where, by macera- tion, a separation takes place, we have occasional examples of this mode of cure.472 1 have already noticed the situation of fracture exterior to tlie capsule, and it is evident, that, although the muscles implanted about the trochanter shall generally be entire, yet they may be more or less lacerated. The gluteus medius, and minimus, and pyriformis, must remain attached to the shaft, being inserted into the trochanter: and the anterior portion of the two first is raised on the top of the trochanter, and stretched more in proportion as that is carried backward. The tensor, from its connection with the first, may also be carried upward, and a little backward, or it may be stretched by blood extravasated under the fascia. The gemelli and obturatores are likely to remain attached to the fossa, if they be not lacerated. In that case, they and the quadratus are stretched more than the pyriformis, and resist the elevation of the shaft. So does the upper part of the adductor magnus, which is altered in its direction, going, in considerable degrees of elevation, more upward than down- ward. The iliacus and psoas are not much stretched, unless the trochanter minor be carried backward as well as upward. They are attached to the fore, as the gluteus minimus is to tire back part of the capsule, and brace it. The trochanter minor may be involved in the fracture, so as to prevent their acting at all on the shaft. Pain is frequently felt in this situation. The fibrous continuation of the capsule, at the root of the trochanter also resists elevation, if not quite torn. The broad surface of the fracture is also a means of preventing great elevation. The whole glutei muscles tend to draw the shaft upward and backward. All the muscles rising from the pelvis, externally, and going to the thigh, contribute to this. The small rotators draw backward. Most of these remarks, so far as the muscles are con- cerned, apply to intra-capsular fractures. But there is this difference, that the fractured surface is not so broad, and the head still more easily rolled, so that the levators can act with less opposition. Fracture of the cervix is marked by more or less shorten- ing of the limb, eversion of the toes, the trochanter is less prominent and higher, flexion is painful, especially if made473 inward, toward the pubis; and there is crepitation felt if the limb be extended and rotated for some time. Taking this statement as a text, I must explain and qualify. The trochanter, if raised directly up, is nearer the spine of the ilium ; but, if carried backward, is really farther from it. The radius it describes, in rotation, is less, but the shaft does not revolve on its own axis. Flexion is, chiefly, opposed, if the trochanter be far back, for, in this motion, the gluteus medius and minimus, the pyriformis, &c., and even the quad- ratus, are stretched. The immediate shortening of the limb must, in its extent, be regulated partly by the extent of injury, and partly by the degree and direction of the force which produced it. Ceterus paribus, we should not expect much difference, at first, between the two species, for, in the extra-capsular, the breadth and obliquity of the surface, opposed to each other, and the remaining attachment of muscles, or fibrous substance, may prevent much elevation; whilst, on the other hand, if the fibrous covering and ten- dinous connexion be entirely separated from the surface of the bone, though the latter may not be torn across, the shaft is not kept down by the capsule, and, if the elevating force have been considerable, it may be driven up. In intra- capsular fracture, there is nothing likely to bind, with any firmness, the surfaces of the bone, the synovial membrane being not only weak, but torn. The broken surfaces being smaller, and perhaps less oblique, are more easily displaced. The same muscles are concerned as in the former case. In so far, we should, from an equal force, expect a greater eleva- tion. But, then, we have the counteracting influence of the capsule, which certainly prevents much elevation, if it be not gieatly stretched, or torn, by the force. The fracture may be, in some cases, oblique and irregular, so as to retain the surfaces better together for a time. Now, in point of fact, different opinions have been given, by eminent men, and, I dare say, it will be conceded, that, although, ceterus paribus, we look for more shortening in the intra than the extra- capsular fracture, yet there is no positive rule. There may, at first, be little shortening, in either case, or there may be474 much in the latter. The distinction laid down is, that, in intra-capsular fracture, the shortening is from one to two inches; whilst, in the extra-capsular, it is rarely an inch, and often very little. Immediately after the injury, espe- cially if the weight of the body have not been sustained by the limb, there may be very little difference in the length ; but, when the muscles come to produce the full effect of their action, which may not be for some days, then the greatest degree of what may be called the primary shortening is produced This, in the extra-capsular fracture, is little, if at all, increased afterwards; but, in the intra-capsular, there is a secondary shortening from the absorption of the neck, so that the limb is much shortened. This can be effected within two months. We, in forming a diagnosis between the two species, consider other circumstances besides the difference of length. The intra-capsular fracture occurs from comparatively slight causes, is attended with less pain, and occurs at a more advanced age. Extra-capsular fracture may also be produced by a mere fall; but, generally, it requires more violence than the former, is attended with more pain, and more likely to be complicated with serious bruising. I have seen extensive extravasation about the muscles, on the inside of the ilium, as well as around the joint. Next, although almost universally the toes be turned out, yet the contrary may take place. It is easy to see how this may happen, if the fracture be situated be^'ond the insertion of the deep rotators outward, whilst the gluteus maximus, &c., from bruising, may have their action partially suspended. In these cases, the anterior portion of the gluteus medius, and minimus, and the tensor, may roll inward. But it has been ascertained, that inversion may occur also in intra- capsular fracture. This has been attributed to partial laceration of the capsule^, or to the end of the neck being placed on the ilium, as in dislocation, or to the direction of the force; but, I believe, we must attribute it rather to the activity of the rotators inward, whilst those outward are impaired in their powers. Irritation, or pressing up of theanterior portion of the gluteus medius, in that case, may cause it; and it ought also to be more likely to occur, in proportion as the trochanter is carried backward. Circum- stances, connected with the fracture and its obliquity, may have an influence. I have just been favoured with a prepa- ration of extra-capsular fracture, taken from a woman, who died a few days after the injury, which was produced by a fall, when drunk. The limb was greatly shortened, and the toes turned in, so as to resemble a dislocation on the dorsum ilii. The neck was broken across at its root, the posterior part of the trochanter major was broken off*, and the minor, also, detached, and drawn upward and forward. Part of the gluteus medius and minimus was attached to the separated portion of the great trochanter, and also to that which remained connected with the shaft. The quadratus, pyri- formis, &c., were attached to the posterior portion, which was broken oiF, and this explains the case. The treatment must be regulated by our object and ex- pectation. In extra-capsular fracture, we wish to have the limb properly extended, and the surfaces also kept in con- tact by circular pressure, at the same time that we enjoin a state of rest. But, in intra-capsular fracture, we cannot expect ossific union. At the most, we look for a cartilagi- nous intermedium ; but, principally, we trust to a new state of the joint, a thickening and strengthening of the capsule, and shortening of the neck—a production of ligamentous bands, perhaps some irregular deposition of bone. Our object here, is to keep the parts quiet, allay inflammation or disturbance of the process, and obviate, as far as can gently be done, great retraction of the muscles. The patient is, generally, elderly, and often frail. If the plan recommended in the first case give no pain, there can be no objection to adopt it; but, generally speaking, the milder method, pro- posed by Sir Astley Cooper, of slight flexion of the knee, over a pillow, like a double inclined plane, will be the best. Rest should be enjoined, till the parts are no longer so tender as to suffer from motion ; then the patient may rise, and sit for some hours on a high seat, with a sloping support476 behind the limb, so that it is not bent on the body. Pre- sently he uses crutches. Dates, must depend much on sen- sation, and the effect of a trial. The trochanter may be broken off from the shaft. It is covered by the gluteus maximus, but the connexion is by cellular substance. The other glutei muscles are inserted into its outer and inner surface and ridge. They must, therefore, draw it up, and either backward or forward, according to the direction of the fracture. If, however, their fibrous continuation along the surface of the trochanter, and the expansion of the insertion of the gemelli, &c., and origin of the vastus externus, be entire, no perceptible displacement may take place. If the fracture be within the implantation of these muscles, closer on the cervix, the trochanter must be drawn back. If the control of the anterior portion of the glutei be lost, we shall have eversion of the foot. If the trochanter be pressed into its situation, and moved back- ward and forward, or the thigh be rolled, crepitation is perceived. Sitting, or bending the thigh on the body, by stretching parts partially torn, or tender, is very painful. The treatment consists in pressing the trochanter into its situation, and retaining it there with a compress and circular band. The patient should lie on his back, with the limb straight, and a little abducted. If proper means be not used, the separation increases. In fracture, just below the trochanter minor, the upper portion is apt to be projected by the iliacus and psoas, and partly by the adductor brevis, and perhaps the upper portion of the pectineus. It may be rolled outward by the pyri- formis, &c. The projection forward is partially resisted by part of the glutei, and by the origin of the crureus, and vasti, binding down the extremity, if it be not torn. The lower portion of the shaft is carried inward, and a little backward, by the adductor longus and magnus, and upward by the rectus and long posterior muscles of the thigh. In almost every instance, the knee must be brought forward by laying the thigh on an inclined plane, so as to make the lower portion accommodate itself to the position of the upper.477 for this cannot be pressed down. Sir Astley Cooper advises a strong, broad, leather belt, properly stuffed, to be buckled round the part. We may also use a splint, to steady, farther, the limb. Sometimes, after two or three days, the tendency to tilt forward diminishes,- and the straight position can be employed. But experiment must decide this. In the middle third of the thigh, there is much less tendency in the upper portion to project; but the under one is drawn inward and upward, behind it. 7’here is a tendency in the two ends to meet, at an obtuse angle, directed inward and forward, whilst the foot revolves outward. The pectineus and adductor brevis, though partly neutralized by the gluteus maximus, draw the upper end inward and forward, whilst the longus and magnus draw the under end upward and inward. The short head of the biceps may draw it back- ward. Our object is, to steady the muscles, by the many- tailed bandage, applied as firmly as the sensibility permits, and regulated, also, by the progress of the swelling. This dimi- nishes the risk of retraction, and the tendency to spasm. The usual application of splints, &c., is then to be made, and daily attention paid to the length of the limb, its straight- ness, and the correctness of the axis, so that the toes are not allow’ed to turn out. It is evident, that, if the knee be bent, the rectus, crureus, &c., must be stretched, though the long muscles behind be relaxed. No countervailing flexion can relax these last muscles. In the straight posture, all are put on an equality, as far as possible, and we can much better ascertain the length, &c. One great source of displacement, is from the trunk sliding down, whilst the leg does not, in the same proportion, precede it. It is not necessary to describe the means of preventing this. In transverse fracture, above the condyles, there is not necessarily any shortening, or even much displacement. But, at the time of the accident, or after it, the knee may bend forward, and carry the end of the bone with it, whilst the upper end goes backward. It is aided in this by the gastrocnemius and popliteus. It resembles dislocation, from the distortion, but is easily distinguished. A considerable478 tumour is felt above the ham. If any force act on the upper part of the shaft, in a direction forward, its end, in place of going backward, pushes forward the crureus, and a fulness is perceived above the knee. When the fracture is oblique, the upper end may be driven into the crureus, and, if not carefully withdrawn, the action of that muscle, and, in a great measure, of the vasti, on the knee, must be lost. The lower portion is carried back, unless the obliquity be of that description in which the upper end keeps the lower forward. The upper portion is drawn a little inward. Generally, the straight position is best. A roller should be applied, from the toes upward, which steadies the gastrocnemius. These are relaxed by keeping the foot extended. By pads, splints, and proper bandages, the bone may be correctly united; but, as soon as is safe, in five or six weeks, passive motion should be commenced, otherwise the joint may long be stiff. In some cases, the double inclined plane, at least for a time, may be required. Our practice must, in some respects, be empirical—that is, we must decide by the effect, at the time, of our trial. The bent position stretches the crureus, &c.; but, if we find that the straight plan allows the bones to be displaced, we shall produce great deformity if we persevere. Oblique fracture of the condyle, whether external or internal, extends down to the joint. The joint appears to be broader, and the broken condyle is apt to be drawn back- ward by the gastrocnemius. As soon as the inflammation and state of the parts permit, a mould of the lower part of the thigh, the ham, sides of the knee, and upper part of the leg, is to be taken by thick pasteboard, previously soaked in hot water, till it becomes soft. We apply the many-tailed bandage, and then lay the limb straight in this deep gutter, having a lining of cotton wool. It is to be secured by strips of cloth. Passive motion is to be cautiously begun, in about a month or six weeks. There is a difference in the two sexes, as to the distance from the tubercle of the pubis, at which the femoral artery issues from under Pouparl’s ligament. In the male, the pubal479 margin is sometimes only one inch and three-quarters from that point; in other instances, two inches and three-tenths; but, generally, two inches. In the female, it varies from one inch and a quarter to two inches; but, generally, it is one inch and three-quarters. There is seldom any difference between the two sides ; but, when there is, the distance seems to be greatest on the left. If we go nearly a quarter of an inch farther out, we get on the front of the artery, and a perpendicular line from this, which goes to the front of the inner condyle, will indicate very nearly its course down to the point where it winds into the ham. It inclines gradually back- ward as it descends, so that it is most superficial at the upper part. It lies on the psoas, bounded without by the iliaciis, within by the pectineus. If the psoas be not broad, it may rest partly on the face of the pubis. The vein is interposed be- tween the artery and the outer margin of the pectineus. The iliacus soon begins to wind inward, and then the artery is, for a very short space, on it; next, it is on the pectineus, till nearly four inches below the ligament; then it is on the triceps longus; and, lastly, for about an inch and a half, on the magnus. In this tract, it is lodged and bound down in an angle between these muscles and the vastus internus. A firm fascia passes, as we have seen (page 462), under the vessels, from the vastus, over the adductor, &c., binding them together. A more superficial layer, from the rectus and vastus, and under surface of the sartorius, to the pectineus and tri- ceps, passes over the vessels, which thus are enclosed, as it were, in a sheath. This, however, does not begin at Pou- part’s ligament, but generally a little below, where the sarto- rius begins to cross the artery, sometimes about three inches, or even a little higher, sometimes not till fully five below the ligament. Till then the artery is enclosed only in its proper sheath, not very strong here, and covered by a layer, not of fascia, but of cellular substance. For about three-quarters of an inch below the ligament, it is overhung by the falci- form process, though this chiefly rests on the vein. The entrance under the layer of fascia is sometimes indistinct;.480 often, the mouth of the canal is well defined. At the liinated margin of the triceps magnus, both of these layers pass oft’ more or less distinctly with the artery, as it winds toward the ham, but are presently lost in its proper sheath. A thin continuation goes down between the vastus and tendon of the triceps, to the condyle; and this thin septum is perforated, or lunated, as we have seen, at its upper part, forming with the lunated border of the triceps an aperture, through whicli the artery passes, and from which it carries the fascial prolongation, just described, in the same way as the cord carries with it a prolongation of the fascia transversalis. Sometimes the perforation is in the tendinous implantation of the muscle, which, in that case, is continued farther down the bone. The vein passes down, at first, by the outer margin of the pectineus, and inside of the artery, though somotimes, even then, it is partly covered by it. Usually, it continues by the pubal side of the artery, for from an inch and three-quarters, to two inches. It then winds backward and outward, so as to be quite behind the artery, at from three inches to near four. It seems to be a little earlier in females than males. This relation continues to the ham. The Anterior Crural nerve passes out by the ilial margin of the artery, and gives off some branches connected with it. Two, or sometimes three, cross the artery, to be expended in the adductors. The highest of these muscular nerves begins to cross at a distance from Poupart’s ligament, varying in dilferent instances; sometimes at an inch, oftener at fully two. It may cross so abruptly as to be soon on the other side; but more frequently its course is oblique, so that it is on the face of the artery for between two and three inches. The lowest often crosses it near six inches below the ligament; another pretty large muscular nerve, going to the vastus, runs down, like the saphenus, by the outer margin of the artery, but is at no time on its face. The Sartorial! nerve comes off also from the anterior crural, and begins to cross the artery-perhaps an inch and a half below the ligament. It then comes more forward, and481 attaches itself to the inner border of the sartorius, very near where that meets the line of the descending artery. It con- tinues attached to the border, for about two inches, more or less, in different cases. It then, the muscle going obliquely inward, passes down on its face for a little, and next is found by the outer margin. It gives twigs to the muscle, or some- times it is principally spent on its undersurface; but it is also a cutaneous nerve, traceable to near the knee. The Saphenus, or nervus longus, runs behind the external circumflex, and down by the outside of the femoral artery, exterior to its proper sheath, but covered by the fascia. It, in its descent, gets a little more forward, so that, about seven inches below the ligament, it is as far forward as the artery, close by its outer margin ; and, at two inches above the perforation in the triceps, or sometimes earlier, it is more forward than the artery, which, by that time, is inclining backward. When the artery turns through the perforation to get to the ham, the nerve continues its course downward on the vastus, and emerges from under the sartorius at the knee, where it meets the vena saphena, and goes down to the foot—hence its name of longus. Many small muscular branches are, as it descends, given off, which Fischer has been at the pains to number. About four inches above the condyle, a large branch is given off, which runs on the under surface of the sartorius, and then either perforates it, or passes out by its margin, to be distributed to the skin about the knee, and upper part of the leg. The sartorius muscle meets the artery at a distance below Poupart’s ligament, varying from one inch and a half, to three and a half. This does not depend on sex. If the fascial connexion of the muscle be removed, it, by receding, seems to meet the artery lower than it really does. A very frequent distance is two and three quarters, oftener a little less rather than more. The muscle itself varies in breadth, being some- times only an inch, in other cases near two inches broad. The obliquity of its course is also variable, so that sometimes it has quite crossed the artery, and its ilial margin corre- sponds to the line of the vessel, at three inches and a half, II. 2 I482 below Poupart’s ligament, whilst, in other instances, this is not the case till eight inches. More frequently,it is six or seven. Besides the sartorian nerve, which we find at one part of the margin of the muscle, we have the vena saphena, and sometimes a pretty large arterial branch. The femoral artery, just before it emerges, gives off the superficial circumflexa ilii, which crosses the crural nerve, winds outward, and presently becomes superficial, near the spine of the ilium. The superficial epigastric, mounts up- ward, whilst the external pudic crosses the femoral vein, to be distributed on the pubis, scrotum, and perinaeum. Like the epigastric, it is cut in the operation for hernia. These either give ramuli to the glands, or small branches come off from the femoral artery to them, whilst a vein, from them descends to enter the saphena. The Profunda sometimes comes off close by the ligament; in other cases, not till three inches. Usually, it is from an inch and a half to two inches. It rises from the back of the femoral artery. If we draw that artery inward, and the crural nerve outward, we see the profunda lying on the tendon of the psoas muscle, in the angle between it and the iliacus, obliquely behind the femoral, and separated from it by the circumflex vein, which crosses between them. It is im- bedded in cellular substance, and covered with fascia, so thin at first, that it may be seen through it. Presently, it is covered by the strong fascia, which extends from the vastus to the adductors. On removing the femoral artery, it is not seen, being hid by this fascia. It goes down on the pectineus, and either perforates it near its lower margin, or passes, at that margin, on the tendon of the brevis, then behind that of the longus, between it and the magnus, which it finally pierces, to get, chiefly, to the biceps. The circumflex arteries come sometimes from the femoral, just where it sends off the profunda, but generally from this last, within five-eighths of an inch from its origin. The external is the largest, and, occasionally, is scarcely less than the profunda itself. It passes outward, between divisions of the crural nerve, over the psoas and iliacus483 muscles, covered by the sartorius and rectus. On drawing this last inward, and the tensor outward, the artery is seen on the crureus, dividing into three sets of branches, each accompanied by a double vein. The strictly circumflex, or transverse, pass across the crureus and vastus,pierce the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and become superficial. Some, deeper, enter the vastus externus, and get close to the bone, below the great trochanter, anastomosing with the internal circumflex, and descending branches, from the ischiatic and gluteal arteries. The ascending, mount under the tensor, and anastomose with the gluteal. The descending are large, and go down into the extensor muscles, some even to the knee, where they inosculate with the ramus anastomoticus. One runs down on the under surface of the rectus, others on the vastus externus, covered by the tensor and its fascia. It is an important artery in the supply of the thigh. The internal circumflex, which is smaller, comes off, some- times, a little higher, but, generally, lower than the external. It passes inward, behind the femoral artery and vein, and then backward, between the tendon of the psoas and the pectineus, covered by the femoral vein. If it come off lower, it passes between the pectineus and adductor brevis. From behind, it is seen on separating the quadratus from the adductor magnus; but we must, to see it there, displace the lower portion of the gluteus maximus, and the sciatic nerve. In its course, it sends branches to the superior adductors, gracilis, and perinaeum—one to the articulation, and others to anastomose with the obturator. It next is divided into two sets of branches; one, more transverse, winds backward, between the quadratus and adductor maximus, to the gluteus maximus, and upper part of the flexors, and anastomoses with the neighbouring branches; another, not so large, goes more upward and outward, toward the trochanteric fossa, is distributed to the external obturator, and muscles at the inside of the thigh. It also anastomoses with the obturator, the exernal circumflex, and glutea. Next, the profunda sends off the first perforating branch, which goes backward, between the pectineus and brevis, or484 through the upper margin of tlie latter, and presently througli the adductor magnus. If we look from behind, it appears over- lapped by the gluteus maximus, and covered by the lower part of the quadratus, and by its veins. It runs down, first by the outer margin of the great nerve, and then by its inner, along the back, covered by the flexor muscles. At its perforation, it is separated from the internal circumflex, by the breadth of the pectineus. It supplies the muscles it traverses, and anastomoses with the ischiatic, circumflex, and neighbouring arteries. The second, usually, passes back at the under margin of the brevis, and perforates the magnus. It sends branches upward and downward to the diffei'ent muscles and anastomoses freely with the higher and lower arteries. It forms extensive rami- fications on the back of the thigh, and also sends a branch into the bone. The third passes back, at the upper margin of the longus, pierces the magnus, and gets to the muscles behind. The continuation of the artery passes behind the insertion of the longus, and pierces the magnus pretty far down, and close by the bone. It is then covered by the long head of the biceps, and goes to be spent on its short head, and, ultimately, toward the ham. It anastomoses with the popli- teal branches. There is a variation in the number of the perforating arteries, and, consequently, of the place where they go back, but they all pass close by the linea aspera. Besides the profunda, the femoral artery gives off, in its descent, several small muscular branches; and, just as it is about to turn back, at the margin of the triceps magnus, it gives off a large branch—the ramus anastomoticus. This inclines a little forward, on the vastus internus, and then runs nearly in the course of the saphenus nerve, toward the inner condyle, and not far from the tendon of the triceps. It sends branches upward, which anastomose with the termi- nations of the external circumflex, whilst its continuation inosculates with the internal articular artery. I’he obturator artery, the course of which, in the pelvis.485 is noticed in the addendum to page 409, passes out at the pubal side of the vein, and subdivides into three. One branch runs inward, pierces the obturator, and ramifies even to the triceps magnus, gracilis, and perinaeum. A second, runs nearly in the same direction, but deeper in the obturator. A third, or rather, the trunk, goes more directly down. The internal circumflex artery sends ramuli up- ward, to join this vessel, and these may encircle the neck of a herniary sac. The relation of the femoral Vein to the artery has already been explained. It gives off the profunda, near the origin of the corresponding artery, and the trunk immediately subdivides into two—one going obliquely before, another obliquely behind, the profunda. Two venae comites attend each perforating artery. The circumflex veins come off about half an inch below the origin of the arteries, and in like manner subdivide. The external crosses the profunda, behind the femoral artery, and subdivides into numerous rami, accompanying every where the arteries, both transverse and descending. The gluteal and ischiatic veins have also branches in the thigh. The most important superficial vein, is the great saphena, which runs up, imbedded in the fascia, in a line from the back of the internal condyle to the femoral vein, which it enters within two inches of Poupart’s ligament, sometimes close by it, and about an inch and a quarter out from the tubercle. Traced upward from the condyle, it is first at the anterior, or ilial margin of the sartorius, then it passes obliquely up, on its surface, and gets to the pubal margin, about six inches below the ligament, continues so, for about three inches, and, then, leaves it, as it proceeds more directly upward to the femoral vein. Different tributary branches enter obliquely from the surface of the adductors; or often it is joined, near the ligament, by a long, though smaller, vein, which comes up a little more inward than it. The Nerves of the anterior part of the thigh are deep, or superficial. The Obturator is the deepest. It subdivides into two, immediately on issuing from the pelvis. One, either48G perforates the triceps brevis, or traverses its margin, running down on its surface. Another, deeper, is seen, on removing that muscle, ramifying on the obturator, and thence to the inside of the thigh. Both of these, accompanied by nume- rous arterial and veinous ramuli, are covered by fascia. The anterior crural nerve, issuing close, and pretty deep, by the outer margin of the femoral artery, immediately splits into different branches. Some of these have been already noticed—such as the saphenus, the vastus, and other muscular nerves. The circumflex nerves are external and internal. The first goes outward, under the sartorius, and over the psoas and iliacus, to the muscles. One long branch goes into the vastus externus. The second, not so large, goes, beneath the vessels, to the pectineus and adductors. Some, name the individual branches, from the muscles they go to. The superficial nerves are,—First, The Inguinal, or crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, which is distributed over the groin; Second, The External cutaneus, (page 399). This issues from under the ligament, usually, between the two spinous processes, but, sometimes, from half an inch to an inch more forward. It pierces the fascia, at a distance varying from one to three inches, and subdivides then, if not earlier, generally into two branches. The outermost, and smallest, runs down on the sartorius, rectus, tensor, and vastus, rami- fying on the outside of the thigh, even to the condyle. The innermost goes down on the sartorius and rectus, a little more forward, supplying the latero-anterior part of the thigh, to the knee. Third, The Cutaneus medius, separating at the outer margin of the psoas, within the pelvis, comes out still more pubal, perhaps two inches from the spine of the ilium. It runs down, nearly perpendicularly, first on the sartorius, and then on the rectus and vastus, going down to both sides of the patella. This may be considered merely as a branch of the former; for it is connected with it within the pelvis, and often is wanting, its place being supplied by the inner- most branch of the Externus, which divides into two. Fourth, The Cutaneus anterior, runs, for a little, by the outer margin of the artery, then, when the sartorius meets the vessel, it487 comes forward to its margin, and soon descends on its surface, then it gets on the rectus and vastus internus, down to the inside of the patella, dividing, higher or lower, into two branches. It is sometimes a branch of the sartorian nerve. Fifth, The Cutaneus internus, comes off immediately below the ligament, passes inward, under the vessels, and is distributed at the inside of the thigh, over the pectineus, adductor longus, and gracilis. It is small, and not very regular. Tumours pressing on any of these nerves, or blows in- flicted, may produce either pain, numbness, or distressing feeling of heat in the skin. A bruise, for example, over the spine of the ilium, by affecting the external cutaneous nerve, may produce pain in the knee. Behind, the great sciatic nerve (page 400), comes out from below the pyriformis, and passes down between the tuberosity and trochanter, across the gemelli and quadratus, to the triceps magnus, along the back of which it descends, covered, first, by the gluteus maximus, and then, by the biceps, and other flexor muscles, and exposed, by separating the former from the latter, in the median line. The two sets of ham-string muscles divaricate, after passing the middle of the thigh; and, on removing the fascia, which binds them in their course to the ham, we see two large nerves accompany- ing the external and internal tendons—the largest, which goes more directly down, is the tibial, the smallest, the fibular nerve. This last separates from the great nerve, about the middle of the thigh ; but, very frequently, it comes out, separately, from the pelvis, either at the upper margin, or through the substance of the pyriformis. The Cutaneous nerves, are, the posterior division of the external cutaneus, which supplies the upper and outer part of the thigh; and the Posterior cutaneus, which comes off from the sciatic soon after its exit. This subdivides into four branches, which pass down from beneath the gluteus maximus—two running parallel to each other, under the skin ; two on each division of the flexors, all the way to the ham. Although the femoral artery may be tied in any part of the thigh, yet, some places are better than others. When we488 have oiu’ choice, we expose it where it is most superficial, and least likely to have the operation affected by the Pro- funda. This sometimes comes off at three inches below the ligament; and, therefore, though its origin, generally, be much higher, yet we would not wish to tie the artery higher than four inches from the ligament. Referring to what has been said of the sartorius muscle, the nerves crossing the artery, and vena saphena, it will appear that we may best perform the operation by beginning our incision three inches below the ligament, or a little higher, if the thigh be short. We continue it down for from two inches and a half to three inches, according to the depth of the cellular substance. The direction is in a line from the point, where the artery issues (page 478), to the front of the inner condyle. It is perpendicular. This does not correspond exactly to the margin of the muscle, but rather to the course of the artery. If we prefer that, the line inclines a very little inward. We do not cut, at once, down to the muscle, lest we injure the vein, but we leave a thin layer of cellular substance, to be divided on retracting the lips of the incision. The vein is imbedded in the fascia, which is, here, sometimes thin, some- times very firm and strong. If we do not see the vein, we press above it, to make it distinct, should it be exposed. The fascia is to be divided on its pubal side, and at the margin of the muscle, which we are then able to draw out- ward, along with the vein and sartorian nerve, which are not to be detached, or otherwise disturbed. If we do not at once see the margin of the muscle, we detach the fascia a very little, outward or inward, or both; then we see a slight cellular line, and, pi'essing, there, with the handle of the scalpel, we make the obtuse margin more visible. We can- not go wrong if we cut no fibres; and we cannot mistake the pectineus or adductor for the sartorius, unless we have gone far out of our course, and do not attend to the different direction of the margin. One or two slight touches of the scalpel, separate the cellular connection of the inferior surface of the muscle. Sometimes, an arterial branch skirts the margin, and it may be cut; but it is not likely, if we do not4S9 wound the muscle itself. We ought now to be on the artery. But this, which, till it meet the muscle, is only covered by thin fascia, often almost cellular, enters about this place, under a firmer expansion (page 479). It does so, some- times, within three inches, sometimes not till five, below the ligament. We divide this for nearly an inch, and then the proper sheath is seen. This sheath is to be slit up, for about three-quarters of an inch, and a blunt needle, with a ligature, introduced between it and the artery. The cellular fibres, which are pushed before its point, on the other side, are to be scratched through. This is better than a more extensive insulation, for the less the artery is detached the better. The spot which we tie, is from four to five inches below the ligament.- Sometimes the margin of the muscle, in our line of incision, corresponds to the tract of the artery, in so far, that it merely covers it; but, generally, it extends more inwardly, over it. In fat subjects, or when the muscle is strong and thick, we see the artery better if the foot be rolled outward. We cannot mistake the artery, if we trust to the eye, and not to pulsation—a portion of cellular substance has been tied, in place of the vessel. We attend to the deep nerves already described. The saphenus is to the outside of the artery, at the most, only involved in the sheath, not within it, and, therefore, it cannot be injured. The sartoi’ian nerve, which crosses the face of the artery, is raised with the muscle; but a muscular nerve, we have seen, crosses, to go more deeply. If it do so at this spot, it is easily detected, and may be avoided ; at all events, it never can be included in the ligature, if the sheath be fairly opened. We do not wish even to divide it, if that be not necessary, for the less adventitious mischief we do to the limb the better. The vein lies behind, and is safe, if the instrument be kept close by the artery. One end of the ligature, which should not be large, is to be cut off, and the lips of the wound united by plaster. The artery is never now tied in the lower part of the thigh, if there be no special reason for it. In this operation, the object is, to expose it, a little before it passes the triceps, to get to the ham. The easiest way is, to cut by the ilial,490 or what is now more the anterior, margin of the sartorius. This must vary in its course, according to the obliquity and breadth of the muscle. Where the incision should be made, may, however, generally, be marked by a line from the side of the inner condyle to the outer margin of the spine of the ilium. An incision, nearly four inches long, is to be made in that direction, ending about three inches above the con- dyle. This exposes the superficial fascia, which is to be divided to the same extent, and the margin of the muscle sought for. It lies here on the vastus, which is covered by the deeper layer of fascia, or aponeurosis. If the finger, or handle of tlie scalpel, be run inward on this, it is likely to turn up the margin of the sartorius, the fibres of which run in a different direction, and, superficially, have a more muscular appearance. The saphena is more pubal than the incision. Having detached the margin, to the extent of three inches, the muscle is to be raised from the vastus, and, on carrying the finger deep to the bone, at the angle formed between that muscle and the adductor magnus, the artery is touched. We have only to dissect as deeply as we can get— that is, to the very connexion, or binding together of the muscles, to reach the artery. It is not seen, for it is covered by strong fascia, which must be divided ; and, even then, the artery is bound in the angle. We wish to tie it about five inches above the condyle. The vein is behind it, and the saphena nerve is in front, connected to the side of the vastus. At this part, the ramus anastomoticus comes off, and, with its vein, lies parallel to the artery, but soon goes more toward the round tendon of the triceps. We avoid it by opening the sheath, quite, on the face of the artery. The spot where the artery perforates, or turns back, must vary according to the length of the thigh, &c.; but, generally, it is about four inches above the top of the condyle. The state of the part below this is not always the same, even in the same subject; for sometimes, on one side, the implantation ends in a lunated tendon, or musculo-tendinous border, connected with the round tendon, and thence, dow n to condyle, there is only a layer of fascia, more or less firm ; whilst, on the other.491 the tendinous implantation is continued along the divaricating linea aspera, as far as it goes, and a regular opening exists in this for the artery. In the former case, if matter formed, it would be more diffused toward the ham than in the latter. In this operation, the artery is exposed, more or less easily, according to the depth of fat, the general size of the thigh, and length of the incision ; but, particularly, according as the sartorius is drawn more or less extensively inward. The objection to the mode of operating here, is, that when matter forms, there is no dependent opening, and it is apt to spread. It has, therefore, been proposed to cut on the pubal, or posterior margin of the sartorius, between it and the gracilis. The direction of the margin of the gracilis, here, is in a line from the posterior edge of the inner condyle, upward, and slightly forward, as if it went to the pubal side of the femoral vein, at the ligament, or, to the face of the pectineus. This is, as nearly as may be, the course of the muscle at this part. The general line of the margin would lead to the groin^ at the pubis. The incision must be fully four inches long, and reaches to three above the condyle. The vena saphena is more forward or ilial than this. By attending to the course of the muscular fibres, after the fascia has been divided, and looking for a cellular line, between those which go straight down, and those which go obliquely in- ward, we may discover the separation, and, that once done, the sartorius is easily raised, and turned outward. The finger is carried on the face of the adductor, toward the vastus, in place of being conducted, as in the other operation, by the latter. The artery is deeper, from the surface of the wound, than in the former case, and, therefore, the operation is more severe. The only superiority, is that which depends on the discharge of matter. We do not willingly tie the artery above the origin of the profunda, but that may be necessary. A perpendicular incision, from two to three inches long, according to the thickness of the covering, is to be made, beginning about half an inch above the ligament, or a little higher, if the artery is to be tied close to it. The falciform process is492 divided, if the vessel is to be exposed high. If not, only its end may be cut. We have to go through glands and fat; but we do so, without injuring the gland or lymphatics, more than must be done by the mere incision. We do not detach them laterally, by cutting, but by gently pressing to each side, so as to expose and insulate the artery, which is very superficial. It is bounded on the pubal side by the vein, and on the ilial, by the anterior crural nerve. The profunda, most frequently, comes off at two inches below the ligament, from the back part of the artery. It lies to the ilial side of the vein, and, generally, obliquely to the ilial side of the artery. The two arteries are close together, and, therefore, we must be careful in our separation of the femoral, for we are not sure how high the other may rise. If it rise high, we may also, if we detached freely, injure the circumflex. The superficial epigastric artery and glandular twigs, coming from it or the femoral artery, are more or less injured, by the incision, and, in insulating the artery, we remember that these, and the origin of the external pudic arteries and circumflex ilii, require attention. In dissecting the ham, we see, involved in the fascia, a vein (saphena minor), which comes up from the outer margin of the tendo Achilles. It enters the popliteal vein, and is often accompanied by another, smaller. On removing the fasciaj which firmly covers this space, and in which these veins are involved, we see a quantity of fatty cellular substance, in which are embedded the vessels and nerves. The fibular nerve runs down sunk by tbe margin of the outer ham- string, and gets on the outer margin of the head of the gastrocnemius, and then turns over the fibula, immediately below its head. More in the median line, we have the greater division, or popliteal nerve. Then, a little deeper, and more inward, is the popliteal vein, covering the artery ; but, at the upper part, the artery is partially seen, being rather more ' inward. The upper portion of artery is covered by the semi- membranosus, and the lowest is partly hid by the head of the gastrocnemius. The intermediate portion is covered by fascia. The artery, after passing the triceps, lies on the back of the493 femur; next, it gets between the condyles, and on the ligamentum posticum; and, lastly, on the upper part of the popliteus. It gives off, first, one or two superior irregular muscular arteries; and then the articular, which are five in number. Two superioi', external and internal, which run in opposite directions, under the tendons and above the condyles, ramifying, as they proceed to inosculate with each other, in front. A deep branch is, also, sent into the joint. Two inferior, in like manner, go round the joint, below, close to the bones. These two sets not only ramify minutely round the joint, but join with the external circumflex, the anastomotica, and a recurrent from the tibial. From the front of the artery, there comes off the articularis media, which penetrates the ligamentum posticum, to get into the joint, in the intex*ior of which it ramifies. Lastly, there are inferior muscular twigs. In puncture of the popliteal artery, producing false aneu- rism, it would be better to tie the femoral; but there may, though rarely, occur such a description of wound, as should require a ligature to be applied at, or near, the injury. The best place to expose the artery is in the upper part of the popliteal space, between the hamstrings, higher than the intercondyloid fossa, and before giving off the superior arti- cular arteries. An incision, fully three inches long, is to be made through the skin, in the median line, or a very little nearer the inner hamstring. This exposes the fascia, and, possibly, in, or under it, the saphena minor, which is to be drawn aside. The fascia being cut, we come to cellular substance, in which we see the popliteal nerve, though, per- haps, the vein may be first seen. The nerve has the vein to its inside—that is, nearer the tibial side. Under it, or par- tially covered by it, so as to be a little to its inside, is the artery, connected pretty firmly to the vein. The latter is to be detached, and drawn outward, unless it quite cover the artery, in which case, we find it best to draw it inward. The artery, being insulated, is to have the ligature applied, by means of a blunt needle, carried from without, inward. We must not be free in our insulation, w'ere it for no other reason494 than avoiding the superior articular arteries. There can hardly be any occasion on which we would tie the artery in the intercondyloid space, where it rests deep in the ligamentum posticum. I have already noticed the knee, in so far as the fibrous covering, and the ligament of the patella, are concerned. The joint is strengthened by a broad sheet of fibres, the popliteal, or posterior ligament, going upward and outward, from the back of the tibia to the external condyle. The tendinous origin of the popliteus muscle, from the outer con- dyle, also fortifies this part. The internal lateral ligament is flat and broad, and extends from the tuberosity, on the side of the internal condyle, to the inner side of the tibia. It is lined by the synovial membrane, and covered by the tendons of the gracilis, sartorius, and semitendinosus. The external lateral ligament is more rounded. It descends from the tuberosity, on the outer condyle, to the head of the fibula. It is strengthened by a shorter ligament, behind it. It is covered by the tendon of the biceps, and the fibrous expansion from the vastus externus. Within the capsule, we have two Crucial ligaments. The anterior extends from the inner side of the external condyle to the tibia, at the anterior horn of the internal semilunar cartilage. The posterior goes from the inner condyle to the tibia, behind, at the posterior horn of the external semilunar cartilage. These ligaments are very strong, being about half an inch broad, and a quarter thick ; and they are connected in their course by intermediate fibres, and expansion of the synovial mem- brane. These ligaments are supposed to prevent rotation of the bones; but, if we cut every thing else, we find that we may roll the tibia. We can roll it inward, so as to make the foot point directly in, or even a little backward; and we can roll it outward, so as to make the toes point backward, or even go round a little toward the opposite side, especially if the ligaments be lax. Rolling outward, untwists the ligaments, and makes them parallel. They are chiefly of use in keep- ing the bones together, and resisting attempts to bend the knee backward, or push the tibia backward or forward. Ro-495 tation is prevented by the capsular, lateral, and posterior ligaments, and so is flexion backward. Two Semilunar interarticular cartilages are connected to the surface of the tibia. The external is most curved, being almost circular. The horns are directed to the spine, or median elevation of the tibia, and are also connected with the crucial ligaments. The inner is more crescentic, and its posterior horn meets the crucial ligament. The internal is narrow before, but five- eighths broad behind. The external, at its broadest part, is only three-eighths. Between the two anterior horns, extends a small band, called the transverse ligament. These cartilages are very thin at their lunated edges, but grow thicker as they approach the outer margin. That is attached to the fibrous investment of the joint, and, at one part, to the popliteus muscle, at another, to the external lateral ligament. That margin is nearly a quarter of an inch thick, so that the ai'ticulation for the condyles is deepened. Both surfaces are covered by a reflection of the synovial membrane, and, consequently, have no adhesion to the bones. If, therefore, the exterior attachment be relaxed, they can shuffle more out or in. If one go inward, the thick margin is caught, or pinched, between the bones, and pain or lameness, for the time, pro- duced. This is relieved by bending the leg greatly, either outward or inward, according to the cartilage which is dis- placed. This stretches the capsule, and pulls the cartilage into its place. The margin of the cartilaginous surface of the femur is marked by a projecting ridge, between the face and sides of the condyles, most prominent on the inner condyle. In front, where they stand off from the shaft, it sweeps up, crossing from the one to the other, in a crescentic line across the shaft. Behind, it follows the outline of the projection of the condyles, and crosses the shaft between these. All along this line, the synovial membrane is attached. It is, also, attached to the margin of the patella, and lines that bone, as well as the capsule, and ligaments at the side and back. It lines the patellar ligament, with the interposition of a bursa and fatty substance. Finally, it is implanted inta496 the tibia, all round its articulating surface, and over that. So far, then, we should say, that the synovial membrane formed a simple shut sac, bounded as described. Under the tendon of the rectus muscle is a bursa, separated from this synovial sac by a thin septum. But this is frequently defi- cient, and, in that case, the sac seems to ascend higher be- tween the rectus tendon and the bone, and, also, by its sides. But the sac is not so simple as I have described. For, from the implantation of the crucial ligaments, it can be traced along each of these, affording an investment to them ; and this is, in their course, connected by fibres, and a little fatty- looking substance, so that they cannot be separated or un- twisted, till this be torn or removed. The synovial membrane, also, is expanded, over both surfaces of the semilunar carti- lages. Lastly, from the_ under half of the margin of the patella, this membrane forms a duplicature into the joint. Its margin is irregular and thick, from interposition of a little fibrine. The duplicature extends outward and inward, on both sides, over the semilunar cartilages, to the capsule, at their margins. From thus stretching from the lower part of the patella, like wings, these have been called the alar ligaments. From the median line of the duplicature, a septum, or fold, goes, backward and upward, to the intercondyloid space, where it meets the membrane, covering the articular cartilage and crucial ligaments. This is called the ligamentous mucosum, and contains a few ligamentous fibi’es within its folds; and on its surface there is often a fatty-looking substance. All these portions of the membrane are continuous, or, traceable from any one spot over the whole. When the synovial fluid is increased in quantity, the patella is raised, if the leg be stretched, and it can be made to strike on the condyles, and rebound. The capsule protrudes at both sides of the patella and rectus tendon, and is very tense when the knee is bent. If there be a communication with the bursa, there is swelling under the tendon. Sometimes a projection takes place into the ham and the artery lying over it, pulsation is felt. It cannot be mistaken for aneurism, for the tumour disappears, or becomes quite slack, by bending the joint.497 The fibula does not enter into the articulation. The articu- lating surfaces of it and of the tibia are covered by cartilage, and a synovial membrane is spread over this, as in other joints. A fibrous capsule secures the whole, and over this is the origin of the peroneus longus, and, in front, that of the extensor digitorum. The fibula may be displaced backward by vio- lence, but generally from relaxation of the capsule. It is easily replaced, but requires afterwards a firm compress and bandage. In the greatest degree of flexion, the capsule, at the sides, and the lateral ligaments, are somewhat stretched, and so are the crucial ligaments, and synovial duplicatures within. The patella is drawn down more against the intercondyloid fossa, the surface of the condyle is removed from that of the tibia, excepting the back, or what, in standing, would be the ascending part. This rests on the posterior part of the semilunar car- tilages. If the capsule be removed, or what is the same, much relaxed, we can roll the tibia outward, so that the external condyle is carried forward on its surface. In diseased, or contracted joint, this is the state, and occasionally the outer part of the head of the tibia expands forward to accommodate itself to the projecting condyle. In greater degrees of disease, the tibia is drawn more backward, and the condyles project more, and even expand somewhat, so that a species of luxation is produced. Complete dislocation of the tibia is not common, but when it does occur, I believe it is most frequently compound. When complete, it is usually backward, and a distinction has been made according as the tibia has been acted on, by the violence, pressing it back, or the femur, pressing it forward. In the former case, the limb is described as bent, and ex- tension impossible; in the latter, it is straight, and flexion is impossible. This, however, still requires confirmation. There can be no complete displacement, without extensive laceration of the capsule, and most likely of the ligaments. If the dislocation be backward, the ligamentum posticum, and the origin of the popliteus must be torn. A part of the capsule must be lacerated, generally, the lateral ligaments, ti. 2 K498 and, probably, the implantation of the rectus into the patella, or the ligament of that bone. One or both of the crucial ligaments must generally be torn. If we remove every thing but the ligaments, and attempt to press the tibia back, the postei’ior resists the anterior. If we cut the posterior, the tibia can be pushed back very considerably, and if the ante- rior be lax, complete luxation may be produced. No disloca- tion can be produced, in the dead subject, without cutting the ligaments of every description, with the exception of the patellar. The leg in this luxation is shortened, the condyle projects, the ham is full, and the leg is straight, or thrown forward. But it is evident that the position in this respect, must be modified by that of the leg at the time, and also by the extent of laceration. The tibia does not go up along the back of the shaft, but only to the intercondyloid space, between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The patella is drawn back if its ligament be not torn. The reduction is accomplished by direct extension, and then pressing the bones into their place. Should this not succeed, the exten- sion should be made forward, so as to draw the tibia over the projection of the condyle, then the leg is made straight, and the bones, at the instant, pressed in opposite directions. The foot should be extended. Much care must be paid afterwards to keep down inflammation, and no attempt at motion should be made so long as there is acute pain, or as it causes pain. It has been considered that anchylosis was the natural cure, and therefore that strict rest should be enjoined to favour that. But amongst other cases, that of Mr. Luland, recorded by Sir Astley Cooper, proves that anchylosis is not necessary. He recovered the use of the joint completely in five months. Dislocation forward is more difficult. The same parts, as in the former case, are torn, with the exception of the patellar lifTament or tendon of the rectus, which is not necessarily O injured. The origin of the gastrocnemius muscle is more apt to be torn. The tibia is elevated in front, there is a hollow above it, and the condyles project into the ham. The leg is thrown forward. Reduction is accomplished by ex-499 tension, and then drawing the tibia a little backward, at the same time that its head is pressed backward. If we cut the posterior ligament, the other defences being destroyed, we can press the tibia so far outward, as to make the outer condyle rest on the spine, or median ridge, of that bone, but we cannot press it inward. Division of the ante- rior ligament allows the reverse to take place. It is evident, then, that one or other of these must, generally, be torn in lateral dislocation, and that the other securities must be njore or less injured, yet, there have been instances where the ligaments have only been stretched. The knee must be broader than usual, though this may not be so well ascer- tained, from the general swelling. The joint is also twisted a little, one or other of the condyles being generally more forward from the rotation outw'ard or inward of the tibia. The patella, if its ligament be entire, is carried obliquely to the side to which the tibia goes. What is called the lateral dislocation is often very partial, the bones being more twisted than carried to a side. One of the condyles projects too much, but the joint is not broader. It is chiefly in such in- jury, I believe, that the ligaments escape laceration. The leg, in either case, is to be extended, not violently, but merely to render the bones more moveable. The tibia is at the same time to be pressed into its place, and if twdsted, to be rolled in the opposite direction. Compound dislocation generally requires amputation. The patella may be dislocated, and most frequently out- ward, in which case, if the capsule be not relaxed by previous disease, the opposite side is torn. The bone is felt placed to a side, there is a hollowness in front, and the insertion of the rectus and vastus internus, as well as the patellar ligament, aie stretched. The patient cannot bend his leg. It is reduced by making the leg quite straight, supporting it thus on the heel so as to make the knee sink as much as possible. The patella is then^ to be pressed over the condyle into its place, and active means used, afterwards, to allay inflammation. In dislocation inw'JifS, the appearances are the reverse, i he treatment is similar in principle.500 The patella may be fractured transversely or perpendicularly, or in three or more pieces. It is most frequently transverse. 1 he limb cannot be extended if there be laceration of the fibrous covering and of the capsule, neither can the patient support himself, as the knee is apt to bend under him. There is a depres- sion, more or less, at the knee pan, and if the separation be considerable, the skin can be pressed, there, down into the joint. If the fibrous capsule or tendons of the vasti and crureus be quite entii'e, the bone alone being broken, there is very little separation, and the hollow is scarcely to be discovered. The outer surface or margin of the broken patella is turned for- ward, so that the internal edge is less separated than the external. If the capsule, &c., be extensively torn, the two por- tions are separated in proportion to the degree of laceration, sometimes even for some inches, or, if one side be more torn than the other, the bone is drawn up obliquely. Crepitation is seldom perceived, and only if the bones can be brought into perfect contact. The pain at first is slight, if the soft parts have not been much bruised; and, if there have been little laceration, the symptoms may continue mild. The synovial membrane lining the patella must always be injured, and if the laceration be more extensive, inflammation takes place. Both blood and synovia are effused under the skin, and smart fever may come on. In every instance, the leg is to be kept extended, so as to prevent increase of separation. If the injury be comparatively slight, we may at once press the broken portions together, and retain them by compress, and the usual bandage, applying also a splint behind to prevent flexion. This in such cases lessens the risk of synovation. But if inflammation come on, or if the part from the first be swollen and tender, no pressure can be safe. The limb is kept extended, and leeches are to be freely ap- plied, after which we use either tepid fomentations, or cold water as may be most comfortable. Afterwards, we apply the bandage, and take care to see that^it is always correct and efficient. Passive motion should not be commenced for five weeks, and when the patient begins to walk, a support- ing bandage should still be used for some weeks. From tlie501 difficulty of keeping the surfaces in perfect contact, the union rarely takes place by osseous matter, but by ligamen- tous intermedium. Our object is to have that as thin as possible. In perpendicular fracture, the lateral implantation of the extensor muscles draws the two portions separate, and this is greatly increased if the knee be bent. A longitudinal de- pression can then be felt. The treatment is the same as in the other case, only we apply lateral pads, and being better able to obtain and preserve complete coaptation, osseous union may perhaps be accomplished. Fracture in three or more pieces, may be attended with more severe symptoms, but the principle is the same. Com- pound fracture generally requires amputation, but if the wound be small, we assuredly try to produce adhesion, and save the limb. The superficial fascia from the thigh is continued down the leg. Beneath this is a deeper aponeurosis, which ad- heres firmly to the shin or ridge of the tibia, and if we trace this outward, we find that whilst it covers the peroneus, it also sends a layer under that, between it and the extensor digitorum, to be attached to the fibula. It goes round the back of the leg, covering the gastrocnemius. On removing the deep aponeurosis in front, from between the tibia and fibula, we see the intervening space to be filled by muscle, but in the upper two-thirds there is no distinct line of sepa- ration, yet, on looking more narrowly, a fine cellular line may be discovered, which runs in the direction of a thread, one end of which is placed midway between the front of the tuberosity of the tibia, and the anterior side of the head of the fibula, or perhaps a very little nearer the tibia, and the other on the anterior margin of the malleolar process of the fibula. Separating cautiously at this line, in the upper part of the leg, we detach two portions of flesh, the innermost belonging to the tibialis anticus, the outermost to the flexor digitorum, about half an inch broad here. The tract of the lower half of the first muscle, is marked by a line from the side of the502 head of ihe fibula to the front of the ankle joint. The muscle keeps close by the tibia all the vvay. In the under third, its tendon keeps close to the shin, and extends not quite half an inch outward. I he tendon of the extensor digitoruni begins about the middle of the leg, and lower than this, perhaps within three inches, sometimes little more than two, above the joint, another tendon appears between it and that of the tibialis. This belongs to the extensor pollicis, which, if traced upward, is soon found to become muscular, and to sink backward between the other two muscles to the interosseus ligament and fibula, up to near its head. Thus, there are three distinct tendons near the ankle, but, higher, we see only two muscles, the third being sunk between these. The fibula is covered by a long line of muscle, in contact, in front, with the extensor digitorum, and behind, at the calf, slightly overlapped by the gastrocnemius. One portion of this ex- tends from the head of the fibula downward, to pass behind the ankle. It is somewhat vvedge-shaped, and at the thick- est part, in muscular subjects, may be an inch broad. From its length it is called the Peroneus longus, to distinguish it from another portion rising from rather more than the lower half of the fibula, and, if we look from behind, almost hid or covered by it. A little of its tendon appears at the margin of the longus. This, the brevis, is lodged between the longus, and extensor digitorum and the face of the bone; it is like an ante- rior layer. The tendon is covered by that of the longus, that is, it is anterior to it, especially at the ankle. There is a third and still shorter portion rising no higher than the lower third of the bone. It goes down between the brevis, and extensor digitorum, and sends its tendon along with that of the latter. It is named the peroneus tertius, but properly it is an ad- junct to the extensor. All these muscles may be best sepa- rated by tracing upwards from their tendons. Behind, we have, under the superficial fascia, a deeper and stronger layer, covering the gastrocnemius, and connecting it to the two bones all the way down. Even at the tendon it exists, and this cannot be defined till that be removed. If the gastrocnemius muscle be entirely cut off, we see a deeper503 layer crossing from the tibia to tlie fibula, over the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve, and in the region of the tendon, we have these muscles farther obscured by fat and cellular substance. The gastrocnemius rises first tendinous, and then fleshy, from the femur, just above the condyles, by two heads, and also from the capsule behind them. These two origins con- verge for about an inch, when they unite, first, by cellular, and then, lower, by muscular substance, but so as to possess evidently two bellies which form the calf of the leg. The innermost head is the longest and thickest. Just below the calf, the muscle ends in a flat strong tendon, which for the present we must leave. The Soleus, or gastrocnemius internus, rises from the upper and back part of the head of the fibula, and from its ridge for about a third of its length. The muscle from its origin slopes downward and inward toward the tibia, but does not reach it till about from three to four inches below its head. It now begins to arise O from it also. The fleshy belly of the gastrocnemius externus is lined by a fascia which at the calf is reflected upon the surface of this muscle. The muscular substance of the soleus does not however stop here, but is implanted into the tendon of the former, and continues down attached to it till near the ankle. It therefore makes use of its tendon. But besides this, a tendinous cord issues from the substance of the muscle, to be lost in that tendon. There is thus a strong O tendon about four inches long, common to both, formed, and named the tendo-Achilles. This is implanted into the end of the os calcis, fibres extending over its sides and from its under surface, to be continuous with the plantar aponeurosis. Its connexion with the bone is so strong, that if great force be used, its surface is torn away, rather than the tendon ruptured. At the upper part of the end of the bone, a bursa, nearly half an inch in diameter, is interposed. Between the tendon and the astragalus, is a considerable thickness of fatty cellular substance. If we separate the gastrocnemii muscles as far as we can, we see between them a delicate tendon which comes from a small pyramidal muscle, the.004. plnntaris, rising above the outer condyle. This tendon passes down by the inner margin of the great tendon, over- lapped by it, and is inserted with it. Lifting these muscles, we expose the deeper layer, covered by a strong fascia ex- tending from bone to bone. The first muscle seen, or pop- liteus, is oblique. It rises by a tendon from the outer surface of the outer condyle, beneath the lateral ligament. It be- comes muscular at fully half an inch from the margin of the condyle, reaches the tibia about an inch and a half below its articulating surface, and continues attached to its ridge for two inches and a half. Its margin is therefore sloping, and corresponds to that of the soleus. On the muscles farther down, we observe, on removing the fascia, a slight sulcus marking the boundary between the flexor pollicis, on the fibu- lar, and flexor digitorum on the tibial side. Separating these, or raising the former from the ankle upward, we find that it has been hiding or covering a muscle, closer on the interosseous ligament, the tibialis posticus. The flexor pollicis begins to rise from the fibula at four and a half, to nearly five inches below its head, and continues to do so till near the outer ankle. Its tendon looks as if it came out of the substance of the muscle, within an inch and a half above the end of the ankle. The flexor digitorum rises rather higher, from the tibia, below the line bounding the popliteus, and continues to rise till within three inches of the inner ankle, but muscular fibres are intermixed with its tendon lower. The two meet, at two or three inches below the origin of the flexor pollicis, and cover the tibialis posticus, a little of which, at first, is seen between them. This xdses from the tibia at the line of the popliteus, and from the fibula nearly opposite. It continues its origin from them and the interosseous ligament, till about a hand breadth above the ankle, where the tendon begins and becomes dis- tinct without muscular fibres. The fascia, at the ankle, is particularly strong, yet it is a continuation of the general aponeurosis of the leg. It ad- heres to the malleolus very firmly, and therefore braces the parts better. It is strengthened in front by an oblique band of fibres, extending across from the outer ankle to a505 depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. This is called the anterior annular ligament, though it be quite contin- uous with the aponeurosis. In its course over the ante- rior tendons, at the ankle, it, at the margin of each, dips down to be fixed to the bone, and also sends a layer under the individual tendon, which thus is lodged in a fixed sheath, or short canal, lined by the synovial covering of the tendons. Behind, the aponeurosis extends from ankle to ankle, cover- ing and' bracing the tendo-Achilles, which also has its own covering. The aponeurosis is thick and fibrous, and covers every thing. Like the fascia in fi’ont, it forms canals for the tendons, and is called the internal annular ligament. Adhering firmly to the inner ankle, it extends backward over the tendon of the tibialis posticus, where it becomes fixed to the bone. It then passes over the flexor digitorum, and becomes again fixed, then it passes over the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and is fixed to the ridge at the posterior sur- face of the astragalus. Thus the tendons are prevented from slipping. If we trace these canals thus formed, upward, we find that they are strong and fibrous, to the end of the shaft above the ankle, when they are lost in the finer individual aponeurosis of the muscles. A prolongation is in like manner traced toward the insertion of the tendon, but presently be- comes indistinct. The synovial membrane of the tendon, lines each of these canals, whether long or short. The floor is formed by the cartilaginous surface of the bone covered by synovial membrane. At the outer ankle, the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis are bound down in a common canal, in the same way, by the strong aponeurosis extending from the fibula to the os calcis. Ihe order of the tendons at the ankle, is this. In front, close by the tibia, is that of the tibialis anticus. It winds inward over the face of the naviculare, then, under the short muscles going to the great toe, and is implanted into the side and under surface of the cuneiforme internum, and partly pro- longed to the metatarsal bone. About three-eighths of an inch farther out, is the tendon of the extensor pollicis, which runs directly on to the first, and, thence, to the second phalanx.506 About the same distance, still farther out, is the tendon of the extensor digitorum, which splits into four, for the last phalanges of the toes. Further out, we have the tendon of the peroneus tertius, going-over the extensor brevis, to the outside of the metatarsal bone of the little toe at its com- mencement. Behind, close by the inner ankle, we have the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which passes by the side of the astragalus, and under the naviculare, bound by a strong sheath. It is implanted into the under surface of the latter, and of the cuneiforme. Deeper, and farther back, so as to be only partially seen on account of the tibialis, is that of the flexor digitorum. It passes along a groove in the os calcis, gets into the sole, and divides into four tendons which go to the toes. (At this point a small muscle rises from each tendon, and runs on, to the inner side of each toe, except the great toe, and under the extensor tendon. They are the lumbricales.) Still deeper, (looking from the side) and a little farther back, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis, which traverses a sulcus in the astragalus, and is crossed, obliquely, by that of the flexor digitorum, which is more superficial. It goes on between tw-o portions of the flexor brevis, to the base of the second phalanx. It gives a tendon to join that of the flexor digitorum. At the outer ankle, the tendon of the peroneus brevis is most anterior, that is, nearest the bone, covered as it were by that of the longus. It passes deep, close by the bone, to be implanted into the side, and, partly, the under surface of the head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. That of the longus is behind. It passes down the outer surface of the os calcis into the sole, and along the groove in the cuboid bone, to be implanted into the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The principal short muscle, on the dorsum of the foot, is the extensor brevis, which rises from the os calcis, and lies on the outer part of the foot. It sends off four slender tendons which go obliquely inward, under those of the extensor lon- gus and peroneus tertius, to the first phalanx of all the toes, except the little one. There are four slips of muscle, filling the interosseous spaces, covered by the lascia of the foot.507 and inserted into the first phalanx of the toes. They are the superior or dorsal interossei. On removing the skin, and aponeurosis, from the sole of the foot, we see three divisions of muscle, an outer, an inner, and a middle; the middle, or flexor brevis, rises tendinous from the under surface of the os calcis, and from the plantar apo- neurosis. It proceeds, fleshy, toward the toes, but soon ends in four tendons which go to the under surface of the second phalanx of the four small toes. These tendons are perfo- rated by those of the flexor longus. The mass on the inside consists of the muscles of the great toe. The innermost, or most lateral, the abductor, rises from the inside of the os calcis, and the fibrous covering there. It presently ends in a tendon, which bounds the margin of the foot, is connected with external head of the flexor brevis, and finally inserted into the inside of the head of the first phalanx. The adductor rises from the trochlea, the middle and external cuneiform bones, and the head of the metatarsal bones of the little toe, and one next it. It is fleshy, and runs, obliquely, to be inserted with the external portion of the flexor brevis. This last rises tendinous from the cuboid bone, and partly from around it. The muscle presently adheres, on each side to the abductor and adductor, divides into two parts which are respectively inserted into the two margins of the first phalanx. The tendon of the flexor longus runs between them. The muscles on the outside are two. The abductor minimi digiti rises from the outer and under surface of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia, which stretches from the os calcis to the metacarpal bone of the little toe. It ends in a tendon inserted into the outside of the first phalanx. The flexor brevis rises, tendinous, from the head of its meta- tarsal bone, and covering of the peroneus longus, runs fleshy along the under surface of the bone, and is inserted tendin- ous into the first phalanx. If we cut off the flexor digitorum brevis, we see a flat and not very thick sheet of muscle, somewhat rhomboidal, rising from the os calcis, and running inward to be implanted into508 the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus. It is the accesso- rius. Turning it, and the tendons outward, we see the ad- ductor pollicis, and at the digital articulations of the meta- tarsal bones, we see a narrow strip of muscle, the transversus pedis, stretched between that of the little and that of the great toe, somewhat blended with the muscles of both, parti- cularly the adductor of the latter. The relation of the tendons in the sole, is this. At the inside, but not going farther forward than the cuneiform bone, is that of the tibialis posticus, which near the heel is quite to the inside of the other tendons. At the outer margin, is that of the peroneus brevis, crossed by that of the longus, which runs close by the bones, obliquely, across the sole. More superficially, and going forward, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis, which is to the outside of the tibialis posticus. That of the flexor digitorum, is a very little more superficial, and to its outside. On removing all these muscles, we still see three, rather beneath, than between, the metatarsal bones of the little and two adjoining toes. They are called the inferior or plantar interossei, and are inserted into the first phalanges of the toes, and the extensor tendons. The whole foot is covered by firm fascia, but, at the sole, that is so strong as to be called the plantar aponeurosis, which is distinguishable into two portions, continuous, however, with each other, an outer, or narrovv, and an inner, or broad. At the inside, between the heel and great toe, the continuation of the fascia from the dorsum is still thin, but from the heel to the little toe, it is strong and thick. This not only bounds the muscles at this margin, but covers them below, having a slight sulcus at their inner margin, where it becomes contin- uous with the main portion of the aponeurosis. This last is traced from the os calcis, forward, over the flexor brevis, toward the toes, separating, as it proceeds, into five digitations, still, however, connected, though more thinly, with each other. These, at the commencement of the toes, subdivide into two strips, one attached to each side, and flanking each flexor tendon, which passes in the angle. The origin from,509 the heel is very thick, and continuous with the implantation of the tendo-Achilles. It is covered by dense cellular sub- stance, forming a firm cushion. But the foot is not merely thus enveloped in a fascia, but, from the main, or broad por- tion, there passes off, at each margin of the flexor brevis, a thin but distinct septum, which goes between it and the lateral muscles, to be connected with a deeper layer which crosses between the flexor brevis, and flexor longus. A thin fascia also separates these from the still deeper muscles. Next, we attend to the articulations. The tibia and fibula are connected by ligaments covering a synovial capsule. An ante- rior, proceeds downward and outward from the tibia to the fibu- la. A similar one is found behind. Both are flat and strong, and divisible into two fasciculi, a higher and a lower. Below the posterior, is a transverse band going from the end of the fibula to a small eminence on the tibia. The ends are join- ed by a short interosseous band. The tibia and fibula are in close contact at the malleolar articulation, for about an inch and a quarter, and the extremity of the latter projects down along the side of the astragalus for an inch. The tibial malleolar process, extends down, on the astragalus, for above half an inch. The interosseous space, at two inches and a half above the end of the fibula, is a little more than an eighth of an inch broad. The tibia and astragalus are connected by a synovial cap- sule, which is spread, as in other joints, over the articular cartilages, and also up a little way between the tibia and fibula. This is covered by ligaments and irregular fibres, constituting an outer capsule. The ligaments at the fibular side are three. The middle, or perpendicular, goes from the point of the malleolar process, to the side of tli^e os calcis. From the front of the lower part of the process, the anterior goes obliquely, forward and downward, to the fore part of the body of the astragalus. From the back of the peak of the fibula, there goes its posterior ligament, the strongest, obli- quely to the posterior part of the astragalus. This requires a little cleaning to be displayed, but all are involved in a fibrous layer, though not very distinct. At the inner ankle, the.510 deltoid ligament rises from the inferior margin of the malle- olar process, and goes down to the inside of the astragalus, os calcis, and even the naviculare. It receives its n^me from being narrow above, and broad below; but sometimes it is broad above, rising more extensively from the tibia. None of these ligaments can be displayed, till the aponeuro- sis and tendons be removed. The astragalus is connected to the os calcis by a strong band, called the interosseous ligament, which runs between the bones, in a sulcus of the former. It is embedded in cellu- lar fatty-looking substance, and consists of a rounded liga- ment made broader by fibrous fasciculi. A capsule is found at the margius, strengthened by a strong external ligament, going downward and a little backward, from the astragalus to the side of the os calcis, and a posterior one, going behind, between the respective margins. The astragalus is connected to the naviculare by a fibrous capsule, strengthened on the upper part, or dorsum, by a broad band going obliquely forward from the one to the other. The surfaces are covered with synovial membrane. The os calcis is joined to the naviculare by a capsule, strengthened by two ligaments. The inferior, is flat, and runs horizontally on the under surface; the external, runs from the inner side of the os calcis to the naviculare. Fibres or bands, extend also on the upper surface, and to the cuboides. If we clean the plantar surface of the foot, we see two strong broad ligaments extending forward. They are called the plantar. The longest goes from the under surface of the os calcis, forward to the cuboides and metatarsal bones. The shortest, called also the oblique, goes more exclusively to the cuboides. The other bones are connected not only by a general fibrous expansion, but by individual interosse- ous flat ligaments) divided, according to their situation, into dorsal and plantar. The metatarsal bones are bound to each other at their tarsal extremities by a transverse dorsal and plantar liga- ment, wanting between those of the great and the adjoining toes. The digital extremities are connected by intermedi-511 ate bands on the plantar surface. Tliey are, at each end, lost in, or connected with, the periosteum, and a fine fascia, which encloses the interosseous muscles. The phalanges are connected by synovial membrane, a lateral ligament, an inferior ligament, and, on the dorsum, by the extensor tendons. At the first phalanx of the great toe, are two sesamoid bones, like little patellae, one on the under surface of the articulating trochlea, the other on the outer, or fibular surface. They are connected with the liga- ments and tendons, but not with that of the flexor longus. In fracture of the middle third of the tibia and fibula, the leg may, or may not, be shortened, according as the bones are broken obliquely or transversely, and according to the direction of the force. If the fibula be entire, no shortening takes place, except what may arise from the bending of the tibia. There is seldom difficulty in keeping the bones of the proper length, they are more apt to be crooked, or have their axis altered. The best position is the straight, the patient being laid on his back. A broad board, properly covered or stuffed, should be laid below, from the middle of the thigh to beyond the foot. Between the tapering part of the leg and the heel, tow or soft cloth is to be introduced, so as to afford a uniform support. The limb is to be managed with lateral splints, having each a foot piece, intervening pads, and the usual bandage. Our objects are, chiefly, to prevent the tibia bending, and the under portion from rolling too much out- ward or inward. The first is accomplished by attention to the line of the shin, and comparison with the other leg. It is easy to judge whether it project, or sink too much, at the seat of the fracture. The second is managed by attending to the relation of the ankles, and head of the tibia. The anterior mai'gin, of the inner malleolus, should correspond to the whole line of the shin up to the tuberosity, the pos- terior, to the inner margin of the tibia, up to the inner bulg- ing of the head. The metatarsal bone of the great toe should correspond to the front of the tuberosity of the tibia. The extremity of the malleolus externus, should be in a line with the head of the fibula. The foot is to be supported not512 only at the sides to prevent rolling, but on the sole, to pre- vent pointing of the toes. There is a third kind of displace- ment meriting attention, namely, the lower end of the frac- tured tibia may be drawn toward the fibula. This seems owinof to the action of the fibres of the extensor dicfitorum. If this take place, there will be a slight curve of the shin outward. It is obviated by placing a narrow pad along the muscles in front, which presses the tibia inward. A similar pad may perhaps be required behind. Oblique fractures may, from the breadth of the tibia and roughness of the broken surfaces, by due attention, be cured, without shorten- ing, in the extended position. If fracture of the tibia near its head be transverse, the same treatment is proper; but if oblique, and the shaft be drawn up behind, or on either side of the upper portion, the double inclined plane is better. If the fracture extend upward into the knee joint, the straight posture is proper, the part being laid in a mould of paste- board, and secured by strips of bandage. There is danger of a stiff joint, and therefore we are taught to employ, in due time, passive motion. The tibia may be broken near the ankle, and yet without interesting the joint, but generally the fibula also is frac- tui*ed. The shaft of the tibia projects a little above the inner ankle, and the foot is inclined somewhat outward. The appearances are still better marked, if the fibula also be broken. In either case crepitation is discovered on roll- ing or moving the ankle. The fracture is to be reduced, and attention paid to the relation of the malleolus to the shin, and of the great toe to the leg and patella. The patient is to be placed on his back, with the leg straight; but if the obliquity be considerable, it may be found necessary to bend the knee, a little, over a small pillow placed below it, with sufficient padding, however, to support the rest of the leg. We use two long lateral splints having foot pieces. The chief risk is that the foot be turned outward, as in dislocation of the tibia, inward; but proper padding and bandages pre- vent this. If the fracture be oblique, and extend in a direc- tion inward, going through the articular surface, it is most513 likely to interest the groove for the tibialis posticus. The foot is inclined more or less inward, and, in the same propor- tion, the outer ankle projects. The straight position gene- rally answers well, but as the foot tends to incline inward, in place of outward, the other treatment must be the reverse of what is proper in the former case. The tibia may also be broken just above the joint, and thrown backward on the os calcis. In this case, the leg is a little shortened, the foot from the front of the ankle, seems longei’, and the toes are pointed more or less downward. The remains of the tibia, or the astragalus, are felt in front of the end of the shaft. As in this case there is a complete separation, and displacement, extension must be used in the reduction, and afterwards we must so support and pad the tibia above the heel, as to keep it in its place. I saw an instance of this, where, the bone not having been reduced, the patient afterwards felt so much inconvenience, that he insisted on the limb being taken off. Sir Astley Cooper mentions, that the fibular portion of the end of the tibia may be split up in jumping, and the astragalus rise between the two bones. He advises the same treatment as in dislocation inward. The fibula may be broken any where, but, usually, it is about two inches above the ankle. There are, besides crepita- tion, other marks, as for instance, the outer margin of the foot is more or less everted, so that the leg rests more on the inner side than it ought to do. There is, in proportion to the degree of this change, a depression of the broken part. There can, however, be no distortion resembling dislocation, unless the lateral force have been so great, as to lacerate, or greatly stretch, the fibular ligaments, and to tear the interosseous. If there be little eversion, the chief mark is crepita- tion on pressing the spot, or on rotating the foot. There is pain at the part, followed by swelling. It is usual to lay the leg on the fibular side, and semibent, and having brought the foot to the right position, we keep it so, by ap- plying on each side a splint with a foot-piece secured by the many-tailed bandage. The firmness must depend on the sensibility. It is of importance to have the holes for the H. 2 L514. malleoli properly fitted, so as to avoid pressure on these prominences. If there be much pain, we must, till the in- flammation, by the usual means, be subdued, trust more to due support on the outer margin of the foot, than to bandages. If we do not attend to our manipulation, the cure, if such it can be called, is accomplished with a foot more or less dis- torted, the patient walking, not on the sole, but obliquely, on the inside of his foot. In the proper position, a line drawn along the dorsum of the great toe and its metatarsal bone, if continued, should lead to the tuberosity of the tibia. The most frequent dislocation at the ankle, is of the tibia inwards. There can be no dislocation without fracture of the fibula. If this occur at two and a half inches above its end, the lower portion must be much bent, and the inter- osseous ligament stretched. But if the fracture be on a level with the top of the astragalus, the shaft of the fibula goes more directly with the tibia, its end rests on the articu- lating surface of the astragalus, and its ligamentary connex- ion with the tibia remains entire. If it be an inch higher, just at the top of the natural connexion with the tibia, the interosseous ligament is not stretched, but the apparatus connecting the two bones, must be torn, or in some cases the corresponding portion of tibia is broken off, and remains with the fibula. The deltoid ligament must be torn, and the tendons behind the inner ankle, if they follow the tibia, are stretched. The end of the tibia, or inner ankle, projects very much, forming a tumour under the skin and aponeuro- sis. It rests on the inner side of the astragalus, whilst the broken end of the fibula is on the top of that bone. The sole of the foot is everted, and its inner margin rests on the ground. There is free rotation. To reduce, the leg must be bent to relax the gastrocnemii, and it is best to lay the patient in bed on the affected side. The leg and thigh being held, an assistant makes extension of the foot from the leg, at the same time that he points the toes downward, and turns the outer margin inward. During this manipulation, the surgeon presses the tibia into its place. He must see that the reduction is perfect, and the great toe in the line of515 the tuberosity of the tibia. The reduction is easy or more difficult, in proportion as the tibia has descended on the side of the astragalus, and as we relax the muscles. But when reduced, displacement soon takes place again, foi, the fibula, being broken, no longer acts as a defence, or resists at the outer ankle. We must therefore, after applying leeches, if necessary, employ two splints with foot-pieces, inteiposing pads of cloth, wet with water, and continuing to moisten these so long as required. The use of the splint is to prevent the foot from being again everted, and this may, if neces- sary, be assisted by first of all taking a long band of cloth, the middle of which is to be laid under the inner ankle, the two ends crossed over the outer ankle, then brought under the sole to the inside, and then drawn up along the leg, to be fixed below the knee, under the splints. This pulls the outer margin of the foot inward. The patient is to be laid on a firm mattress, the leg bent, and placed on its fibular side. Much care is necessary to allay inflammation. The splint must be used for six weeks, and as soon as the fibula is con- solidated, passive motion is to be employed. When the patient first walks, he must use crutches. It is about three months before the cure be perfect. Dislocation outward must be more severe, as it requires greater force to break off the internal malleolus, without which it cannot happen. The outer ankle in this case pro- jects much, and the other appearances are the reverse of what is met with in the first case. The extent to which the tibia is fractured, varies, and generally the fibula also is broken, and if not, its ligaments, are torn. The deltoid liga- ment is entire. The foot is pointed downward. The reduc- tion and subsequent treatment are to be conducted on the same principle as in the first case, only, the bones are pressed in a reversed direction, and our attention is directed to pre- vent the foot from being inverted, or the toes pointed down- ward. The leg is to be placed on the fibular side, and semibent. In dislocation forward, the foot seems shortened, but the heel does not appear so much lengthened, as might be sup- posed, owing to the tendo-Achilles and skin curving above51G the heel. The toes are pointed, and tlie foot inverted. The’ fibula is broken just above the astragalus, the malleolar pro- cess remaining attached to that bone, whilst the end of the shaft is carried forward with the tibia, which perhaps scarcely touches the tarsal bones, or, if it do, it rests obliquely on the astragalus or naviculare. The malleolar process of the tibia is also in many cases broken. The fibula, and outer side of the tibia, are twisted a little forward. The capsular liga- ment is opened, and the deltoid more or less torn. Reduc- tion is to be accomplished, by fixing the thigh. The foot is to be laid hold of by the dorsum and heel, and pulled in a direction forward. We then press the tibia back, whilst we gently bend the foot forward, to turn the bones into their place. Splints, with foot-pieces, are as usual to be applied. The foot is not to be extended, and pads, if necessary, must be applied in front. The advantage of the supine, over the lateral posture, is, that we can place the heel on a cushion, which tends to prevent displacement. Sir Astley Cooper describes a partial dislocation forward. The fibula is broken. The tibia rests partly on the astra- galus, partly on the naviculare, the foot appears but little shortened, nor is there much projection of the heel, which is drawn up, whilst the toes are pointed downward. The treatment is the same. The only case that I have seen of supposed dislocation backward, turned out on dissection, to have been a fracture of the end, with a displacement of the shaft, of the tibia. The astragalus has a bod}', articulated with the tibia and os calcis, and an anterior projection, which joins the navicu- lare. Its dislocation is prevented by the interosseous and the posterior ligaments, aided by the deltoid, and two of the external lateral. A complete dislocation is therefore rare, but oftener the anterior projection is separated from the naviculare, and raised, whilst the body is not so entirely dis- placed, as to permit the tibia to rest on the calcaneum. When the projection is thrown outward, it rests partly on the os calcis, and partly on the cuboides, and the hollow of the naviculare is vacant, 'riie anterior margin of the tibia517 is applied to the back of the astragalus, which is detached from both malleoli, if these be not broken off, and carried with -the bone. The toes are pointed downward and inward. To reduce, the leg should be fixed, and extension made by the foot and heel. When this has been done, we add flexion of the foot forward, to roll the tibia over the astragalus, at the same time that we press that bone strongly inwards. If the astragalus be dislocated inward, the projection rests on the naviculare, and forms a prominence on the inner margin of the foot, whilst there is a depression under the end of the fibula. The toes are turned out, from the tibia twisting in- ward. The under part of the astragalus, still rests on the extremity of the os calcis. In attempting to reduce, we pull the foot, and then flex it as in the former case, whilst we press strongly backward and upward. If we press outward, we only force it against the side of the os calcis. If the re- duction cannot be accomplished, it would be better to remove the bone than let it remain. The tibia then rests on the os calcis. In compound luxation, this is still more warrantable. , There is a modification of this dislocation, in which the astragalus remains properly attached to the tibia and fibula, but is dislocated from the os calcis and naviculare. In this case, the toes are turned very much inward. To reduce, make extension, and turn the toes out. If the foot be strongly twisted downward, or outward, the os calcis, and astragalus, may be separated from thecuboides and naviculare. One half of the os calcis, rests on the arti- culating surface of the naviculare. The astragalus projects, to the same degree, over the inner margin of the naviculare, and, especially, if this last be in any degree separated from the cuneiform bone, the heel is bent down. In a case of this kind described by Sir Astley Cooper, the appearance was very like club foot. To reduce, make extension, and twist the foot upward, or inward. I he internal cuneiform bone may be displaced upward, and inward, producing a projection in that direction. It is to be pressed into its situation, and retained by a compress and band^ age. Ihe foot is to be turned up, to relax the tibialis aiiticus.518 The metatarsal bone of the great toe, may be displaced upward, from the cuneiform bone, for instance, by the action of the stirrup on the foot, if thrown from a horse. Extend the bone, and press it down. The first phalanx of the great toe, may be dislocated from the metatarsal bone, upward, or downward. The cap- sular ligament is torn, but the lateral may be entire, locking the ends of the bones, as in the thumb. The sesamoid bones may also be so placed, as to oppose reduction. The prin- ciple of treatment, is the same as I have described in notic- ing dislocation of the thumb, where the sesamoid bone also sometimes is an obstacle to reduction. In the club foot of adults, the os calcis, and astragalus, are chiefly affected, though the other bones are also altered in their position. The os calcis, which is always more or less bent down, is very much turned forward toward the sole, and also obliquely inward. It is so altered, that its articulating sur- face for the astragalus, is on what should be its side. It is joined at an angle to the cuboid bone, which, with the cunei- form bones, form a greater arch, directed downward, instead of across, so that the person rests on the outer margin of the foot. The astragalus is altered in shape, its tibial articulat- ing surface is flattened, and its projection, which goes to the naviculare, is altered, so as to be more or less angular, or wedge-shaped, whilst the naviculare itself is turned inward. All the bones are smaller than usual. The tibia rests on the astragalus, but so that its malleolar process is directed for- ward, whilst that of the fibula is backward. The bones, then, behind the last row, or cuboides, &c., namely, the os calcis, astragalus, and naviculare, are most affected in the adult. All the muscles of the leg, but particularly the gastrocnemius, are small; the limb therefore seems shapeless. These changes take place slowly, for in infancy the bones deviate less from their natural shape; and Scarpa asserts, that till the age of four years, the astragalus is less displaced than all the other bones. It is evident from the state of the parts, that some of the muscles must be shortened, for instance, the tibialis posticus, and muscles on the inner margin of the519 sole; but the one chiefly affected, is the gastrocnemius. It has therefore been proposed to divide its tendon, by a slender bistoury introduced under the skin, and then by suitable apparatus to keep up extension, and bring the foot ultimately into the proper position and shape. The tendon unites by an intermediate substance, and in proportion as the deformity is rectified, the belly of the muscle improves. Cures have been accomplished, without dividing the tibialis posticus. It is not yet decided at what period this operation must cease to be useful, but certainly we should not think of resorting to it in infancy, or at an early age, when apparatus may be effec- tual. If this fail, then with propriety we resort to it. As it is sometimes necessary to remove part of the foot at the articulations, it is requisite to know their I'elative position, and how they are best found. If we wish to remove the foot at the extremities of the astragalus and os calcis, we shall find that of the former, with the naviculare, about three-fourths of an inch before the end of the tibia. At the inside, we discover with the finger, a projection on the side of the navi- culare, and the junction is just above, that is, tibial of that. If we press on the side of the sole, at the outer margin, we perceive a projection of the cuboides, and the articulation of the os calcis, is just to the tibial surface of that. To ampu- tate here, we may either make an incision obliquely round the whole foot, so as to leave a greater length in the sole, than on the dorsum, or a transverse incision on the dorsum, and a flap in the sole. If we choose the latter mode, we make, with a very short knife, the transverse incision, fully an inch before the end of the tibia. We do not begin ex- actly at the sole, nor make the incision perpendicular at the inside, but commence a little above the sole, below the front of the inner ankle, so that this extremity is inclined obliquely backward. At the outside, the foot being thinner, we go very near the sole, about an inch before the front of the outer ankle. We wish to leave as much skin as shall overlap the margin of the bone. The flap in the sole, is made by cutting across the skin at a right angle to the surface, so that the margin, or skin, shall not be thin and slanting. We cut.oso somewhat obliquely, so that the Hap is a little longer at the inside than the outside. Ihe middle of this oblique line, is from five, to five and a half inches from the end of the heel, according to the size of the foot, and the extent of skin left on the dorsum. It is best to confine our incision at first entirely to the skin and cellular substance, and the difference in point of time is very little. The skin on the dorsum is now to be drawn back, and the extensor tendons, and extensor brevis, divided close by its margin, and down to the bone. The tibialis antica is at this time divided, and is to be com- pressed with the finger, if a tourniquet have not been used. We, next, either disarticulate the bones, and complete the flap below, by cutting the muscles ; or, we cut them first, bending the foot, so as to stretch the flexor tendons. If this be not done, they, especially that of the longus pollicis, are apt to project. We begin the disarticulation with the astragalus, and feel for that by the tuberosity of the navicu- lare. It is also in a line up from the inner margin of the toe next the little toe. If we bend tbe foot inward, it is still more distinct. In front, we feel for the sulcus, between the os calcis, and cuboides, having previously divided the exten- sor brevis; or, we feel for the tuberosity of the latter bone, at the side of the sole. No force is to be used, as that is apt to affect the ligaments of the ankle joint. The arteries divided, are the anterior tibial, and the posterior, after it has subdivided into the two plantar vessels. Ramuli may also require to be tried. If the flap do not fit perfectly, it must be pared a little, or if, at the ends, it pucker or project much, it is easy to make it fit; but that is not to be done, unless the error be considerable. I need scarcely say, that it is better to make the flap too long than too short. The foot may also be removed, leaving the naviculare, in which case, the incision on the dorsum is more oblique. If we be to remove the toes and metatarsal bones, at their junction with the tarsus, we feel, on the outside, for the angular projection of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Its articulation, with the cuboides, slopes a little forward, that of the others goes directly inward across the foot. Or,5^1 at the other margin, we feel for a little sulcus between the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the internal cuneiforme. This is just above, or tibial, of the implantation of the tibialis anticus into the metatarsal bone, and just beyond the con- nexion of the posticus with that bone. We may either make a flap below, or, it answers very well to make a simple inci- sion round the foot, so as to cover the ends of the bones, equally, from above and below. For removing the great toe alone, with its metatarsal bone, feel for the slight depression between it and the cuneiforme. Make then, just before this, on the median line of the inner margin of the foot, an incision forward for half an inch. The extremity of this is to sweej) off, on the upper and under surface, toward the junction of the great toe with the adjoin- ing one, forming thus an upper and under flap, when the skin is dissected outward. The extensor tendons are next to be divided, and the knife sunk between the'surface of the bones, and then the toe with its metatarsal bone and muscles attached to it, are to be cautiously detached. No force is to be used in separating, and more especially if the tendon of the flexor longus be not yet divided. The advantage of the first straight incision is, that we thus better cover the flat surface of the cuneiform bone. The Popliteal artery, (page 492,) flanked on the outside by the plantaris, descends on the popliteus, and at the lower margin of that muscle, two inches below tbe articular surface of the tibia, divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arte- ries. Previously, it gives oflF a branch, which runs down on the cellular line, uniting the heads of the gastrocnemius, and two others, one descending on each belly of the muscle. The Posterior Tibial artery is the continuation of its trunk. Covered by the soleus, it proceeds down on that very small portion of the tibialis posticus, which is visible between the popliteus and flexor digitorum. Then, it rests on the latter till near the ankle, when the muscle becoming narrower and tendinous, it leaves the artery, which is then separated from the bone itself, only by a padding of fat and cellular sub-stance. At the ankle, it winds forward behind the tendon of the flexor digitorum, to get to the side of the os calcis, where it divides into the two plantar arteries. Its course is oblique. At the top of the leg, it is nearly in the median line. At the top of the middle third, in males, it is fully an inch, in females, only three-fourths, out from the edge of the tibia. At a handbreadth above the ankle, it is half an inch; lower it is rather less. It is accompanied by two veins, one on each side, except at the ankle, where they are obliquely before and behind. They are often nearly of equal size, but generally the innermost is largest, and opposite the top of the condyle it receives the smaller from the inside, forming thus the pop- liteal vein, which partly covers the popliteal artery. The posterior tibial nerve at the upper part, has the belly of the plantaris muscle close by its outside. As it descends, it keeps by the margin of the flexor pollicis, and consequently from first to last, close by the fibular margin of the artery. There is, however, in some cases, a little difference, for at the top, the nerve, looked at from behind, may sometimes rather cover the artery; and, at a handbreadth above the ankle, it may be partly covered by the artery and its veins. About three quarters of an inch below the origin of the tibialis antica, the Peronea rises. It descends by the outer margin of the tibial nerve, and by the inner one of the flexor pollicis, for three inches. A little above the middle of the leg, it is overlapped by that muscle, then, is close behind the edge of the fibula, between it and the attachment of the tibi- alis posticus, but, strictly, cannot be said to rest on the inter- osseous ligament. When it rises lower, say an inch and a quarter below the antica, it gets very soon covered by the flexor pollicis. About two inches above the outer ankle, it sends a branch called the anterior peronea, through the in- terosseous ligament, which descends on the tibial margin of the fibula, forms an anastamosing loop with the tibialis antica, and is distributed on the neighbouring parts. A branch goes down under the peroneus tertius, and over the tendon of the peroneus longus; another goes to the outside of the heel. The continuation of the trunk is called the posterior peronea.523 It runs behind the ankle to the side of the os calcis, is dis- tributed to the heel and sole of the foot, and anastamoses with the posterior tibial. In its course in the leg, the pero- nea supplies the muscles, particularly the flexor pollicis. It also gives a branch to the bone itself. The Tibialis antica goes almost directly forward, between the popliteus and origin of the tibialis posticus, through a vacancy in the interosseous ligament, and gets on its anterior surface. It is, within three inches below the top of the tibia, met by the anterior tibial nerve, which descends close by its fibular margin, for nearly two inches, then it is on the front of the artery till within two inches of the ankle, when it lies to its outside. Two veins accompany the artery, one on each side. The artery lies close on the ligament, at first, between the tibialis anticus, and extensor digitorum, but about five inches, sometimes sooner, below the head of the fibula, the extensor pollicis coming more forward, separates the vessel from the ex- tensor digitorum. It has always the tibialis anticus on the tibial, but on the fibular side, these muscles bound it succes- sively. At the ankle, it passes forward under the annular ligament, with the tendon of the tibialis anticus on its tibial, and that of the extensor pollicis, at first, on its fibular side, but almost immediately the latter crosses it, to get on the other side, so that the artery is between it and the tendon of the extensor digitorum. It proceeds in the direction of the interosseous space between the great toe, and the one next it; and when it reaches that space, it is defended, by being sunk in it. When the artery, at the top of the leg, comes through the interosseous ligament, it immediately gives off* a recurrent branch, which penetrates the tibialis anticus and peroneus, to ramify under the ligamentum patellae, and over the front and side of the tibia. Then, in its course, the artery gives off many muscular ramuli, and within two inches of the ankle, it furnishes an outer and an inner malleolar branch. The first crosses the front of the fibula, ramifying over its process, and down on the side of the heel, and also joining the posterior peronea. The second, crosses the tibia, under521 the tendon of the tibialis anticns, to ramify on the inner ankle, and outer side of tlie heel. Hie arteries are accompanied, each, by two venae comites, which at the ham unite to form the popliteal vein. The superficial veins arise from the dorsum and sides of the foot. That from the inside, can be traced from the great toe to the front of the inner ankle, and thence up the inside of the leg, near the margin of the tibia, and then by the side of the inner condyle to the thigh, where it has been already described under the name of the saphena major. It receives its name from being manifest, or very well seen, in the naked foot and leg. The vein from the outside, arises near the little toe, turns at the outer ankle toward the tendo-Achiiles, along the outer border of which it ascends, to get on the belly of the muscle, then^between its heads, where it dips to enter the popliteal vein; but sometimes it proceeds higher, to enter into the end of the femoral vein. It is called the saphena minor. These form a net-work on the dorsum of the foot, and also communicate in their course up the leg. The superficial nerves are, first, the Saphenus, (page 48],) which accompanies the vena saphena all the way to the great toe. It pierces the fascia about two inches below the head of the tibia, and runs by the posterior margin of the vein, or partly overlapped by it. It supplies the inside of the leg, and ramifies both backward and forward. It sends branches over the inner ankle, and along the inside of the foot. The saphenus minor is distributed on the side of the knee and upper part of the leg. Secondly, on the outside, we have the superficial division of the peroneus, (to be presently noticed,) which generally before coming from between the peroneus and extensor digitorum, divides into two branches, one, continuing under the fascia, proceeds along the back of the ankle, and outside of the foot, toward the little toe; another, pierces the aponeurosis above the ankle, and goes by the front of the ankle, and onward, on the dorsum of the fool, quite cutaneous, toward the great toe. A third branch perforates lower, and is distributed about the ankle. Thirdly, the continuation ol the anterior tibial nerve, passes from525 under the annular ligament, over the face of the artery, but quickly goes to its outer margin. It is at first covered by the extensor brevis, but after that, is distributed to the skin, on the front and inside of the dorsum. Fourthly, the back of the leg is supplied at the upper part, by the descending branches of the cutaneous nerves on the back of the thigh. But the two principal nerves come off in the ham, one, from the tibial nerve, called the communicans tibite, descends on the fibular margin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius, with a vein to its inside. Sometimes it passes down in the sub- stance of the muscle, even to the calf. It pierces presently the aponeurosis, and sends branches in different directions, whilst the trunk continues down, to be distributed about the inside of the heel, and sole of the foot. The communicans fibulae, in like manner, comes off from the fibular nerve,- often high, even above the ham. It descends on the outer head of the muscle, perforates the aponeurosis about the middle of the leg, and is distributed like the former, only on the outer aspect of the leg, heel, margin, and sole. Its largest division joins the tibial, about the middle of the leg. Both of these nerves often continue under the fascia all the way down, and only send branches through it to the skin. Thus the leg is completely supplied, on every aspect, with cutaneous nerves, which communicate with each other. The deep nerves are the tibial and fibular. The former is ’ the continuation of the great sciatic, and it immediately gives off several very considerable branches to the head of the gastroc- nemius muscle, the soleus, and popliteus. These are seen on removing the fascia from the ham and top of the leg, and separating the heads of the gastrocnemius. The nerve then proceeds down, with the posterior tibial artery, to the ankle, giving in its course branches to the tibialis posticus and flexors. 'I he fibular, or smaller division of the sciatic nerve, just below the head of the bone, divides into two, which de- scend for a little nearly parallel, by the outer margin of the head of the gastrocnemius, at the latero-posterior part of the top of the fibula. The posterior branch, or trunk, as it is526 called, descends by the outer margin of the bone, going first through the substance of the peroneus longus, and then im- mediately between it and the extensor digitorum. It sub- divides either before, or immediately after, coming out from between them, into two superficial branches, as has been already noticed. It comes out about midway down the leg, but the point is somewhat variable. The other, or anterior division, called the anterior tibial nerve, at about an inch and a quarter below the top of the head of the fibula, turns forward between the bone and peroneus longus, and under the extensor digitorum, to join the anterior tibial artery, giving at first a recurrent branch to be distributed about the knee, and afterwards, in its descent, branches to the tibialis anticus and extensors. It passes to the dorsum of the foot under the annular ligament, and besides the superficial branches formerly noticed, it is distributed to the dorsal interossei and extensor brevis. I now proceed to the arteries and deep nerves of the foot. The tibialis postica passes behind the inner ankle, by the side or hollow of the os calcis. It is, at the ankle, covered not only by the general fascia which envelops the leg, and binds the tendo-Achilles to the bones at each side, but also by a still deeper layer. The strong aponeurosis called the internal annular ligament, which binds down the tendons, does not, properly, extend over the vessels, but the fascia covering the deep flexors of the legs, and the vessels there, is continued over them at the ankle, and is lost in the annular ligament. (Being also, here, often strengthened by some thicker fibres, the ligament is supposed to cover the vessels as well as the tendons.) Cutting this, the artery is displayed quite distinct from the sheath of the tendons. The order of parts here as viewed from the side, is this: The tendon of the tibialis pos- ticus is foremost, and close by the tibia. Obliquely behind it, that is, deeper, partially appearing from behind it, is that of the flexor digitorum; both bound down in their sheaths. Then, is the artery with its venae comites, then, farther back, the nerve. All these, are in dense cellular substance. Deeper527 in this view, that is, more toward the opposite side of the foot, but scarcely farther back than the nerve, is the tendon of the flexor-pollicis, which is therefore more or less hid by it, in this lateral view. The abductor pollicis rises from the inside of the os calcis, an inch forward from the end of the bone, and from the fibrous covering at its junction with the naviculare. The first head is the largest. The artery pro- ceeds to enter between these originsj and before passing between the bone and the muscle, or, just Avhere it has got covered by the outer or thickest origin, about three quarters of an inch below the malleolus, it divides into the two Plantar arteries. Just before this division, or sometimes from the external plantar, there is sent off to the heel a pretty large branch, which ramifies minutely on that side, whilst the fibu- lar side is supplied from the peronea. Both ramify in the cellular substance of the heel. The Internal plantar artery runs forward, covered by the smallest head of the abductor; then, between that muscle and the flexor brevis. It supplies these muscles and the skin, and, at the first phalanx of the great toe, it ends in ramuli. The External plantar is the largest division, or rather the continuation of the trunk. This goes obliquely forward and outward, to the root of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Then, it winds inward, toward that of the great toe, joining there with the connect- ing branch of the antica. The kind of arch thus formed, is from an inch, to an inch and a quarter, from the articulation of the first phalanges. The artery in its first course, (outward,) is covered by the abductor pollicis, and flexor brevis digitorum, and in this tract it is seen, merely by raising the latter, to traverse the outer margin of the accessorius, and tendons of the flexor longus. In its course forward, it runs by the outer margin of the flexor brevis, covered by it, with the nerve to its tibial side. It is fully an inch tibial of the side of the foot, at the head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. When it winds inward, it becomes deeper, and is covered by the tendons of both flexors, and the lumbricales, crossing the bones and interossei. In the first part, many irregular mus-.528 cular branches are given off‘. From the arch on its concave side, similar small vessels arise. From its upper surface, three or four posterior perforating arteries, ascend to the interossei, and pass on to the dorsum of the foot. From its convex surface, four digital arteries proceed to the little toe, and three adjoining ones, subdividing so as to furnish a branch to each side; and near the subdivision, a small branch perforates to the dorsum. These are the anterior perforating arteries. At the interval, between the metatarsal bone of the great and adjoining toes, the artery sends a pretty large branch, across the former, to the margin of the toe, whilst the trunk joins in the space, the anterior tibial artery. The general course of the Tibialis antica has already been described. Within two inches above the ankle, it gives olF.two malleolar arteries. The internal, passes inward, covered by the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and ramifies over the ankle, anastamosing with the posterior branches. The external, runs outward, close on the bone, is distributed in like manner with the former, and anastamoses with the peronea. Other irregular branches ramify in front of the joint. The dorsal artery, as the trunkis called, gives off, at the naviculare, the tar- sal branch, which runs outward, supplying the extensor brevis, the bones, muscles of the little toe, and, finally, communicates with the plantar artery. The metatarsal, rises farther forward, at the commencement of the metatarsal bones. It arches outward under the tendons, supplying the parts it traverses, and also sending forward from the arch, three, or perhaps four small branches, along the interosseous spaces, to the interosseous muscles, to the sides of the small toes, and to anastamose with the perforating arteries. Both of these arteries also send branches inward. The dorsal artery, goes in the interosseous space, by the outer margin of the tendon of the extensor brevis, to the great toe, and a little beyond the proximal end of its metatarsal bone, dips down into the sole to join the plantar arch. This termination is called the communicating branch. Just before this, the dorsal artery gives off a pretty large branch, the dorsalis pollicis,5^29 which at the cleft of the toes divides into two; one, runs iiiw'ard, covered by the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and goes along the inner margin of the great toe; another, subdivides to supply its outer margin, and the inner one of the adjoining toe. The posterior tibial nerve divides generally sooner than the artery, or just behind the ankle, into the two plantar branches. The inner, or largest, goes in the angle between the two plantar arteries, at their origin, obliquely outward, under the abductor, then, straight forward, between it and the flexor digitorum brevis, on the accessorius and tendon of the flexor longus. It, besides givinjj ramuli to these muscles, divides soon into four branches, to the great toe, the two adjoining, and the inner margin of the fourth. At the commencement of the toes, these subdivide into the marginal nerves. The external plantar nerve passes near the os calcis, more across the origin of the abductor pollicis, and flexor digitorum brevis, over the acces- sorius, and along the outer margin of that muscle. It runs by the inner margin of the artery. It gives twigs to these muscles, and then subdivides, for the little, and outer margin of the adjoining, toe. It communicates with the inner plantar. There are branches of nerves both above and below the ten- dons of the flexor longus. The nerves on the dorsum have been already described. In giving directions for exposing the arteries in the upper and, even, the middle part of the leg, I do so rather for the purpose of assisting their discovery in patent wounds, than from a belief that in punctures the operation shall be often resorted to. To expose, and tie, the posterior tibial artery, at the top of the leg, begin the incision opposite the top of the condyles, and carry it down, in the median line, for three inches and a half. This exposes the fascia, involving the saphena minor, with the communicating tibirl^nerve, by its outside. An arte- rial branch often descends in the same situation. These are to be as little disturbed as possible. The fascia being divid- ed, they, with the inner head of the gastrocnemius, are to be 2 M530 drawn inward, and tlie heads separated, by going through tliat line of cellular substance which connects them, till about three inches below their origin. It is also generally neces- sary to divide a small part of the muscular union itself. A vein from the saphena minor dips clown here to join the pop- liteal, and requires attention. Drawing, now, the heads in opposite directions, the nerve is seen first, and it gives off, here, muscular branches, which it is not possible always to save. It covers the vessels, or lies a little to the outside, and is to be drawn outward. Two veins are now exposed, which cover the artery. These are to be separated, and drawn to opposite sides, unless in any particular case, it be found easier to carry them both in the same direction. Sometimes the union is very lax, so that the separation is easily made. In other cases, it is firm, and great care is required not to injure the vein. The artery lies deepest of all, on the popliteus muscle. The tendon of the plantaris is to the outside of the nerve, and is to be drawn outward with it; or, if the belly be large, it may require, for room, to be pressed aside. Some muscular nerves, not very regular, may suffer division, for it is not always possible to turn them out of the way. Arte- rial branches are also divided, and should be tied before pro- ceeding farther. In this operation, the artery is tied before giving off the antica. To tie it lower, would require the in- cision to be commenced lower, and more of the gastrocnemius to be cut. It is evident then, that whilst this operation is more severe than that of tying the femoral artery, it has no advantage over it in false aneurism, unless we tie below the antica. In open wounds, however, or some cases of compound fracture, it may be necessary to tie it here, and in that case, these instructions, with regard to the relation of the parts, will be useful. If the artery be ever to be tied at the calf, an incision is to be riiade just at the inner edge of the tibia, so as to expose the attachment of the gastrocnemii. The vena saphena, if seen, is to be pressed back. The aponeurosis is then to be cut, and the muscles being separated, for at least three inches531 from the bone, are to be drawn backward. In doing this, the leg is to be bent, and the foot extended. There is a layer of fascia, stretching between the two bones, over the deep muscles and vessels. If this be, improperly, detached, it is raised with the gastrocnemii, and the vessels and nerves carried with it. In that case, they are to be found on the surface of the elevated muscles. If this fascia be not touched, the vessels are left in situ. It is to be divided for at least an inch over them. The artery lies between two venae comites, with the nerve on its fibular side. It is fully an inch out from the edge of the tibia here, and therefore we require to make an incision nearly four inches long. A handbreadth above the ankle, and also at an inch and a half above the end of the malleolus, the artery may be more easily exposed. We make an incision three inches long, be- tween the edge of the tibia and tendo-Achilles. The vena saphena is to be avoided. The strong aponeurosis between the tendo-Achilles and tibia being cut, we, by a little dis- section, expose the layer of it which' covers the vessels on the deep muscles. This is to be divided up and down, and then the artery is exposed, about five-eighths of an inch obli- quely outward, and backward, from the edgp of the tibia, between its veins, and having the nerve either obliquely be- hind, or more frequently fibular. This fascial covering is sometimes so thick, as to be an aponeurosis, and occasionally, though rarely, an accessory slip of the flexor digitorum, having a slender tendon, covers the vessels. This is to be raised and turned outward. If w'e wish to tie the artery at the ankle, we begin the in- cision fully an inch above the end of the ankle, and carry it nearly to the same extent beyond it, in a direction down- ward, and forward, toward the side of the sole. It passes a finger’s-breadth behind the ankle. The general fascia being divided, as it extends from the ankle to the tendo-Achilles, we expose, and must open, the particular layer which covers the artery. 1 his, immediately behind the ankle, is often strength- ened by fibres from the annular ligament. It is to be divided532 over the artery, but we do not thereby expose the tendons, (page 506,) for they are covered by their annular ligament. We ought not to see them, in the wound, behind or below the ankle. The artery is lodged in dense cellular substance, with the veins obliquely before, and behind it. Farther back, though we have no occasion to display it, is the nerve, which in a side view, covers the tendon of the flexor pollicis. A little lower than this, the nerve divides into its two plan- tar branches, one is behind the artery, another more covered by it. We would not, if we had our choice, tie the artery so near the articulation, not merely on account of the risk of articular inflammation, but also of subsequent stiffness, for a time, from inflammation of the sheaths of the tendons. An inch and a half above the end of the malleolus, is a very good spot. In puncture of the plantar artery, it would be both foolish and severe, to search for the vessel in the sole, for it is three quarters of an inch deep, from the aponeurosis, and cannot be exposed without great injury to the tendons,’ &c. It is better to tie the tibial artery above the ankle. It may be wounded by a puncture from the dorsum. At the upper part of the leg, the peronea may be got at, by cutting in the sulcus, between the gastrocnemius and per- onei muscles. Raising the former, the artery may be found on the margin of the flexor pollicis, with the tibial nerve to its inner side. But, as it presently is covered by the muscle, we cannot thus expose it lower; for it is out of the question to raise and draw outward the muscle. At, and below, the top of the middle third, we must cut close by the back of the fibula, behind the peroneus, and then detach the flexor polli- cis from, its connexion with the bone. By introducing the finger close by the bone, and sinking its point down at the tibial margin, to the interosseous ligament, we must touch the artery. It is not easy however to insulate it, and there- fore the needle must be passed cautiously round its tract, including none of the ligament. Or, the artery may be divided, and its orifice being seen, it can be taken up. It is533 chiefly in cases of compound fracture, that we can be called on to tie it. It is not necessary to give directions for exposing the tibialis antica, on the dorsum of the foot, as it, if wounded, should be tied in the wound. Its course has been de- scribed. A handbreadth above the ankle, it is exposed, by making an incision, between two and three inches long, close by the outer margin of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. This is about three-eighths of an inch broad, and consequently we cut, at that distance, outward from the ridge of the bone. The tendon is seen for fully four inches above the ankle. Slitting up the aponeurosis, there, a thin cellular line may be discovered, between it and that of the extensor pollicis, which is visible for two, or two and a half, inches above the ankle. These tendons are to be separated, and the detachment completed down to the interosseous ligament, by the handle of the scalpel. Pressing the two muscles asunder, the nerve is seen either on the front, or to the fibu- lar side of the artery. Putting it cautiously aside, should it be on the front, we see two veins, close by the margin of the artery, or perhaps overlapping it. These are to be drawn in opposite directions, when the artery is exposed, and can be insulated. It is about five-eighths of an inch deep from the shin, or aponeurosis of the muscle. In this operation, we must be careful to keep close by the tendon of the tibialis, for if we mistake that of the extensor pollicis for it, we miss the artery altogether, by going between that muscle and the extensor digitorum. The tendon of the former is superficial, or visible, for from two to four inches above the ankle. Soon after that, the muscle sinks dowVi. In the lower part of the middle third, or belovv the middle, the tibialis anticus scarcely shows any admixture of tendinous substance. An incision three inches long, is to be made in the line described (page 501,) or, in a slender leg, in the course of a thread, one end of which is placed on the outer margin of the tendon of the tibialis, or a very little beyond it at the ankle, and the other on the front, or a little on the outside.534 of the head of the fibula. 'Fhe aponeurosis is to be scratched through, and then slit up on a director. The margin of the extensor digitorum, is, often, tendinous for more than half way up the leg. The tibialis anticus does not show tendon till lower, perhaps four inches above the ankle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis appears from between them, sometimes at four inches, sometimes only two above the ankle. We can easily distinguish the tendons by their distance from the shin. If we are a little higher than the tendons, we look for a cellular line. We first, with a light touch of the point of the scalpel, exhibit the boundary, at the same time that we press the muscles in opposite directions. The separation down to the ligament, is to be completed by the handle. The rule is to keep close by the individual muscle nearest the tibia, and to see, that not the slightest cellular line lies to the tibial side of our incision, otherwise, we go on the wrong side of the extensor pollicis. We separate, in a direc- tion obliquely inward, as if we were going to the back of the tibia. The artery, here, is nearly an inch deep, from the aponeurosis, between its two veins, and with the nerve on its fibular margin. In the upper part of the leg, we require, as the artery is deeper, to make the incision a little longer, in the line de- scribed (page 501), as marking, there, the boundary of the muscle. Or, in a slender leg, in the course of a thread, one end of which, below, is placed on, or a very little forward from, the anterior margin of the fibular malleolus, and the other, above, on the outside of the head of the tibia, that is, between it and the head of the fibula. The aponeurosis being slit up, we look carefully for an indistinct cellular line, and to make this more visible, we press the muscles to opposite sides. As we can readily make a false division, with the scal- ■ pel, it will be better to employ, the flat end of a firm probe. We cannot, without force, with this, go into the substance of the muscle, and if we once make a slight separation, and find the surface smooth, or covered with a very thin cellular layer, or sometimes a septum of fascia, we are sure of our ground.535 and have no difficulty in completing the separation. We adhere to the former rule of keeping close by the tibialis down to the ligament. The extensor pollicis is variable, in the height of its origin, arising, sometimes, as high as little more than three inches below the head of the fibula. We must therefore attend to the rule of keeping close by the surface of the tibialis, otherwise we may get on the wrong side of the extensor pollicis. If the extensor rise lower, the rule is still good. As the artery is very deep, the operation is more severe than at the lower part of the leg, and is not very likely to be often resorted to. THE END. # Glasgow !—E. KmiLL, Printer to the University.V*/ ■ Ll'i; »• . * '* ^ > I i » ••^ •> * ^ .li':. .1. I •V> • 1 ■Vi I •’Ml..,. /;4*i*s.'lii; ■'iiy’>;f7 ■’ ; •■'• •'ii-,'»_< 1.1-, 47‘^!*' ^j,'A ^ Cl (^flO *, ,.,k I ,!•, , ■,i^^ 7'/.Ml. . ■.■frlVj: . infj ■ .i'ftir.ihc Ida ■ ' • •'■■■''-' '' *>{1^ ■ --■•y ’•‘♦■v-vj:*-yf‘» - K •» ' • / ' ^ ••; -ii.y }'< < isij,-. > . *»n>. 1 ;. «..{{; ; . v'lOj^ J Ow *1 ’ ;,:a ,_i,/ . .i7'f "1»W i ■ ' •’.*’ * *'. •> - - # -V « /h ■•^ ^•- li-. I ■'. T>j 1 r^i ■ .■.l-iC: Ciak» ’a* 3t. fev' s '. /, d. V' , '' A ■ ...'i-o;ri, fufl - "A (I ■ 1.1 ' ■ ■ '^r s, /1111114111