I EEGIONAL SUEGEEYTo he Published in TJiree Parts. PaET II WILL INCLUDE THE TETTNK AND UPPEE EXTREMITY. „ III WILL INCLUDE THE GeOIN AND LOWEE EXTEEMITT.REGIONAL SURGERY INCLUDING SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS A MANUAL FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS Past I THE HEAD AND NECK BY F. A. SOUTHAM, M.A., M.B.Oxon., F.R.C.S.Eng., ASaiSTAMT-aURGKON TO THK MANCHKSTKH ROYAL INPIBMABV, ASS UTAN T-LKCT U K t B ON 3UHGBKI IN TUB OWENS COLLEGE SCHOOL Ur UKDICINK LONDON J. & A. CHUECHILL 11, NEW BUELINGTON STEEET 1882PEEFACE In the following pages an attempt has been made to group together the principal surgical affections which T 1 1 • AiTTT EREATA Preface, line 18, for " complication " read " compilation." Page 17, „ 1, after " cellulo-cutaneous " insert " erysipelas." „ 40, „ 24,/or "tumour" j-eaci " tumours." „ 52, margin,/or " syyhilitic " read "syphilitic." „ 54, line 8, for " calculous " read " calcareous." „ 86, 15,/or " mylo-myoid " reaci " mylo-hyoi(l," „ 128, „ 9,/or "entropion (212)" read "ectropion (213).' I am also much indebted to my friend, Mr. T. H. Pindar, for kindly revising for me the chapters on Diseases of the Ear, F. A. SOUTHAM. 96, MosLEY Steeet, Manchestee; . October, 1882.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2196905xCONTENTS CHAPTER I Tumours of Scalp and Vault of Cranium PAGE Table of tumotirs of scalp and vault of cranium . Meningocele, enceplialo- cele, hydreneephalocele Sebaceous cyst (congen- ital) .... Nsevi . . . • Moles .... Sebaceous cysts (acquired) Fungating sebaceous cysts Vascular tumours . Gumtnata Nodes — syphilitic, rheu- matic, strumous . Sarcomata — periosteal, central Exostosis. . . . 4 5 5 5 6 7 7 Eungous tumour of dura mater . Abscess . Epithelioma Horns and papillomata Enlarged glands Lipoma . Fibroma . Hajmatoma — cutaneous subaponeurotic, sub pericranial . Pott's puffy tumour Nodes—traumatic . Hernia cerebri Collections of cerebro-spi nal fluid PAGE 9 10 10 11 11 11 11 12 14 15 15 15 CHAPTER II Affections of Scalp and Vault of Cranium Erysipelas 17 1 Hydrocephalus 21 Necrosis and sinus . 17 Cutaneous affections— 21 Osteoid thickenings round anterior fontanelle Eczema 21 17 Impetigo . 22 Craniotabes 18 Eczema impetigi- Rodent ulcer . 18 nodes . 22 Sinus over mastoid pro- Pityriasis. . 22 cess .... 19 Psoriasis . 22 Shape of cranium in Herpes zoster . 22 rickets.... 19 Alopecia syphilitica . 23 Hypertrophy of cranium— Tinea tonsurans or 23 rickets, ostitis dcfor - ringworm mans, leontiasis ossea. Tinea favosa 23 osteomalacia 19 1 Tinea decalvans 24CONTENTS TIU CHAPTER III Injuries of tlie Head Contusions Scalp wounds . Fractures of skull— fractures of vault Fractures of base Complications of injuries to the head— Concussion Compression PAGE 25 25 25 25 27 28 28 29 Diagnosis of concus- sion and compres- sion Diagnosis of compres- sion—extravasated blood, depressed bone or body, pus PAGE foreign 29 30 CHAPTER IV Affections of the Face Acne vulgaris . Molluscum contagiosum Lupus Diagnosis of lupoid ulcer, rodent ulcer, and epi thelioma Leprosy . Ulceration—lupus, rodent ulcer, epithelioma, sy philis, struma Cicatrices round mouth Contusion of eyelid," black eye" . Prominence of frontal eminences . Prominence of cheek Sinus Salivary fistula Abscess . Erysipelas Cancrum oris . Facial carbuncle Malignant pustule or char bon Nffivi Sebaceous cyst Facial paralysis — Bell'; palsy . Facial spasm—convulsive tic . . , 32 33 33 34 36 36 37 37 37 37 38 38 38 38 39 39 39 40 40 40 42 Evidence of congenital sy- philis .... 42 A flections of frontal si- nus— .... 42 Distension . . 42 Exostoses.. . . 43 Polypi . . . . 43 Fracture ... 43 Afi'ections of parotid gland .... 44 Simple tumours . 44 Malignant tumours . 45 Parotitis or mumps . 45 Abscess or parotid bubo ... 45 Congenital malformation of mouth— ... 46 Microstoma congeni- tum ... 46 Atresia oris . . 46 Cicatricial narrowing of mouth .... 46 Emphysema of face. . 46 CEdema of face— . . 47 Renal disease . . 47 Myxcedema . . 47 MorphoBa ... 48 Strumous or scrofulous dia- thesis— ... 48 Evidences in the face 49CONTENTS IX CHAPTER V Affections of the Nose PAGE PAGE Depression of bridge of Polypi—.... 54 nose .... 51 Mucous or gelatinous 54 Expansion o£ bridge of Fibrous or sarcoma- nose .... 51 tous (naso-pharyn- Destruction of nose . 51 geal, naso-orbital) 56 Hypertrophy of nose 52 Cancerous 57 Ulceration— lupus, rodent Conditions simulating po- ulcer, epithelioma, sy- lypi . . . . 57 philis .... 52 Enehondroma . 57 Fracture, of nasal bones . 52 Osteoma .... 58 Coryza . ." . 52 Chronic discharge from Ozsena .... 52 the nose 58 Ulceration of Schneiderian Adenoid vegetations in membrane . 53 the naso-pharynx. 59 Necrosis of nasal bones . 53 Afl'ections of the septum Foreign bodies in nose 53 nasi— .... 60 Rhinolithes or nasal cal- Deviation. 60 culi . . . . 54 Blood tumour . 60 Chronic thickening of mu- Abscess 60 cous membrane . 54 Perforation and de- Meningocele of nasal struction 60 fossa .... 54 Tumours . 61 CHAPTER VI Affections of the Lips Congenital fissures— Hare-lip . Median fissure of upper Hp Fissure of lower lip Fissure of lip and cheek, " macrosto ma" . . Ulceration of lip—simple, strumous, syphilitic, cancerous Herpes labialis 62 62 62 62 62 63 63 Fissure of lip, or "cracked lip" . . . . 63 Chancre of lip . . .64 Hard or infecting . 64 Soft or non-infecting 64 Epithelioma ... 65 Mucous cysts ... 65 Na3vi .... 65 Hypertrophy, " strumous lip" ... 65 Eversion following burns 66CONTENTS X CHAPTER VII Affections of the Jaws PAGE PAGE Tumours of upper jiiw— . 67 Tumours of lower jaw 74 Hydrops antri, or Closure of the jaw . 74 dropsy of antrum . 68 Diseases of temporo-max- Dentigerous cysts 69 illary joint . 75 Fibroma . 69 Chronic rheumatic ar- Enchondroma . 70 thritis . /o Osteoma . 70 Rheumatic anchylo- Malignant tumours— sis ... 75 sarcoma, carcinoma 70 Suppurative arthritis 76 Abscess of antrum . 71 Periostitis of lower jaw . 7fi Alveolar abscess or gum- Dislocation of lower jaw . 77 boil . . . . 71 Fracture of lower jan' 77 Necrosis . . . . 72 Fracture through glenoid 78 Fi-acture of upper jaw 73 cavity .... Enlargement or expansion Alteration in shape of of lower jaw 73 lower jaw 78 In congenital syphilis Mercurial, rocky, or honey- combed teeth CHAPTER VIII Affections of the Teeth . 80 81 In rickets, struma " Craggy teeth " CHAPTER IX Affections of the Mouth Stomatitis ... 84 Affections of the mucous lining of the cheeks . 85 Ranula .... Sublingual sebaceous cyst Salivary calculi Chronic superficial glossi tis, " smooth tongue " Psoriasis linguae Ichthyosis linguse . Ulceration of tongue— Irritable ulcer . Dyspeptic ulcer Syphilitic ulcer Cancerous ulcer Diagnosis of epithelioma and deep syphilitic ulcer CHAPTER X Affections of the Tongue Syphilitic affections of 87 tongue.... 87 Desquamative syphi- 87 lis of tongue . 89 Chancre . 89 Mucous tubercles 89 Chronic superficial 90 glossitis, psoriasis, go ichthyosis Gummata 91 Ulceration Fissured tongue 82 83 85 86 86 92 92 93 93 93 93 94 94CONTENTS . Ill 114 Epitheliomatous Paralysis of muscles xi CHAPTER Ylll—Continued PA&E Acute glossitis... 94 Abscess .... 95 Macroglossia or hypertrophy 95 Tniigue-tie Naevi PAG-E 95 96 CHAPTER XI Affections of the Palate Cleft palate Arched palate . Elongation of uvula Ulceration of palate— Syphilitic. Epitheliomatous Perforation of hard pa late 97 Swelling or prominence on 97 roof of mouth 98 98 Displacement forwards of 99 98 soft palate . 98 Gummy tumours of , pa- 98 late .... 100 Necrosis of hard palate . 100 98 Abscess .... 100 CHAPTER XII Affections of the Gums Polypoid growths . . 102 Vascular tumours . . 102 Epulis . . . .102 Epithelioma, " malignant epulis" . . .103 Mercurial stomatitis In lead poisoning In scurvy Gingivitis Ulceration 103 103 104 104 104 CHAPTER XIII Affections of the Tonsils Acute tonsillitis . . 105 Chronic tonsillitis . . 105 Syphilitic ulceration . 106 Malignant disease- noma, sarcoma Calculi Chancre . -carci- 107 107 108 CHAPTER XIV Affections of the Pharynx Acute pharyngitis . . 109 Stenosis of pharynx 112 Chronic pharyngitis . 109 Prominence of posterior Strumous pharyngitis . 110 wall of pharynx . 112 Syphilitic pharyngitis . 110 Post-pharyngeal abscess . 112 Diphtheria . Ill Pharyngocele . 113 Ulceration— . . Ill Tumours .... 113 Syphilitic. . Ill Caries and necrosis . 114xii CONTENTS CHAPTER XV Affections of the (Esophagus Dysphagia Stricture— . , Spasmodic Cicatricial or fibrous Cancerous PAGE 115 116 116 117 117 Paralysis of muscles Foreign bodies Scalds Dilatation, oesophagocele Rupture • PAGE 118 119 119 120 120 CHAPTER XVI Affections of Tinea tarsi 121 Phthiriasis 121 Hordeolum, or "stye" . 122 Inflammation and abscess 122 Ulceration 122 Syphilitic affections— . 122 Chancre . 122 Secondary or tertiary ulcers . 123 Ecchymosis 123 Emphysema . 123 Tumours— 123 Meibomian or tarsal cysts . 124 Naevi 124 Papillomata 124 Sebaceous cysts 124 the Eyelids Tumours—continued Molluscum contagio- sum 125 Xanthelasma, or Xan- thoma . 125 Epicanthus 125 Anchyloblepharon, sym- blepbaron . 125 Entropion 126 Ectropion 126 Trichiasis • ■ 126 Lachrymal fistula 127 Ptosis 127 Affections of muscles of eyelids— 127 Levator palpebrarum 127 Orbicularis » • 128 CHAPTER XVII Affections of the Lachrymal Apparatus Inflammation of the la- chrymal gland . . 129 Cysts of lachrymal gland 129 Fistula of lachrymal gland 129 Tumours of lachrymal gland . . , .130 Inflammation of lachrymal sac ... . 130 Fistula of lachrymal sac . 131 Epiphora . . . 131 Displacement of puncta , 131 Closure of puncta . . 131 Obstruction of canali- culi .... 132 Obstruction of nasal duct 132CONTENTS XUl CHAPTER XVIII Affections of the Ortit PAGE PAGE Exophthalmos . . 133 Enchondroma . . 138 Orbital cellulitis . 134 Fibroma . . 138 Abscess . . 134 Grummata . 138 Periostitis . 135 Hydatid cysts . . 138 Caries or necrosis . . 136 Aneurism . 138 Orbital haemorrhage . 136 Nsevus . 140 Orbital emphysema. . 136 Malignant growths . . 140 Tumours of orbit . 136 Extra-orbital tumours . 140 Exostosis . 137 CHAPTER XIX Affections of the Neck Affections of lymphatic glands— . , . 142 Inflammatory — Sim- ple adenitis . 142 Strumous adenitis 143 Syphilitic adenitis 146 New growths—Lym- phadenoma . 146 Carcinoma . . 147 Lymphosarcoma . 148 Tables of tumours or swel- lings of neck , . 144 Cystic tumours . . 149 Hygroma or hydrocele 149 Deep sebaceous cysts 149 Bursal cysts . , 150 Hydatid cysts . . 150 Abscess . , . . 150 Bronchocele or goitre . 151 Cervical aneurism . . 153 Carotid aneurism . . 153 Diagnosis from other tumours . . 154 Aneurism at root of neck 155 Diagnosis of carotid, sub- clavian, and innominate aneurism . . . 156 Aneurism of arch of aorta .... 156 Arterio-venous aneurism . 157 Affections of sterno-mas- toid muscle . . . 157 Anthrax or carbuncle . 158 Lipoma .... 158 Sebaceous cysts . . 160 Eruption on nape of neck 161 Sinus .... 161 Strumous ulceration .. 161 Strumous scars . . 162 Cancerous ulceration . 162 Fistulous openings in neck .... 162 Emphysema . . . 163 Cicatricial contraction after burns . . , 164xiv CONTENTS CHAPTER XX Injuries of the Neck PAGE Wounds of throat . . 165 Practure of hyoid bone . 167 Dislocation of hyoid bone 167 Fracture of cartilages of larynx . . . .167 Rupture of trachea . . 168 Scalds or burns of larynx 168 PAGE Foreign bodies in air-pas- sages— . . .168 In larynx . . .169 In trachea . , 170 In bronchi or their subdivisions . . 170 CHAPTER XXI Injuries and AflFections of the Cervical Spine Sprains .... 172 Dislocation . . . 172 Fracture .... 173 Cervical caries . . 175 Rheumatic arthritis, "spon- dylitis deformans" . 177 Curvature of cervical spine— . . . 177 Angular . . . 178 General bowing . 178 Curvature of cervical spine—continued Lateral bowing . 179 Rigidity of cervical spine 180 Spina bifida . . . ISO Hyperostosis . . . 181 Sarcomata . . . 182 Carcinoma . • . 182 Irregularities of spinous processes . . . 133 CHAPTER XXII Affections of the Larynx and Trachea Acute laryngitis . . 184 (Edema glottidis . . 185 Croup, cyuanche trachea- lis ■ . . . . 185 Laryngismus stridulus, " spurious croup " . 186 Diphtheritic laryngitis . 186 Chronic laryngitis . . 187 Ulceration of larynx . 188 Constriction of "larynx or trachea, " stricture " . 189 Necrosis of cartilages . 190 Tumours . . 190 Dyspnoea. . 191 Aphonia . . 191 Paralysis of muscles of vocal cords . . 192 Spasm of glottis . 193 Leprosy oi: larynx . . 194 Tracheocele . 194 Aerial fistula . . 194CONTENTS XV CHAPTER XXIII The Ear—Affections of the Auricle PAGE Malformations. . . 195 Absence .... 195 Cutaneous affections . 196 Tumours.... 196 Hsematoma . . 196 Sebaceous cysts . 197 Fibrous or keloid tu- mour . 197 PAGE Tu m ours—continued. Vascular tumours . 197 Epithelioma, lupus, rodent ulcer . . 197 Enchondroma and sarcoma . . 198 Tophi or challi-stDiies . 198 Hypertrophy . . . 198 CHAPTER XXIV The Ear—Affections of the External Meatus Cerumen. • . .199 Parasites. . . .199 Foreign bodies . . 200 Otitis externa diffusa . 200 Otitis externa circum- scripta . . . 201 Ulceration . . .201 Caries . . . .201 Tumours— . . . 201 Exostoses. . . 201 Sebaceous tumours . 202 Polypi . . .202 Discharge of pus, otor- rhcea . . . 202 Discharge of blood . . 202 Discharge of watery fluid 203 CHAPTER XXV The Ear—Affections of the Memhrana Tympani Myringitis Perforation Rupture . 205 205 206 Appearances in catarrh of middle ear . . .207 CHAPTER XXVI The Ear—Affections of the Middle Ear Acute catarrh . . . 208 Ciironic catarrh . . 209 Eustachian obstruction, " throat-deafness" . 210 Complications of suppura- tion in middle ear . 211 Polypi . . . .212 Disease of mastoid cells . 213XVI CONTENTS CHAPTER XXVII The Ear—Affections of the Internal Ear PAGE Nervous deafness . . 215 Deafness in congenital sy- philis .... 215 PAGE Implication of internal ear in fractured skull . 216 Meniere's disease . , 216 CHAPTER XXVIII The Ear—Diagnosis of the Cause and Seat of Deafness History and symptoms . 218 Examination with specu- lum .... 218 Examination of throat . 218 Tuning-fork . . . 218 Inflation of tympanum . 219 Tinnitus .... 220EEGIONAIj suegeey CHAPTER I TUMOUKS OF SCALP AND VATJLT OP CRANIUM 1. The tumours met witli on the scalp and vault of Tumom-s or scaip the cranium may be divided into three great classes, '"''mum^ according as they are— — 1. Congenital, or present at birth. 2. Traumatic, or the result of injury. 3. Acquired or Idiopathic, occurring in after-life as the result of disease or without any apparent cause. They may also be classified according as they are connected with— 1. The Scalp, including the soft structures which overHe the cranial bones. To this subdivision the term " BermaV may be applied. 2. The Pericranium. To this subdivision the term " Pericranial " may be applied. 3. The Bones of the Cranium. To this subdivision the term "Cranial" may be applied. 4. The Brain and its Membranes. To this subdivision the term " Cerebral and Meningeal" may be appHed. In the following table the tumours most commonly met with in this region have been arranged according to both these methods of classification:BEGIONAL SUEGEKT 1-^ CD W 05 o S3 E o o Si a m 15 as CO ^ -s g W 02 si a o s W o a ^ -P m rn r/i -S^ a e3 a cS u 0 na o CO bo a a ,£3 ^ 'I' W3 .2 ■t^ CO 8 a ^rS Si c ^ " s eTUMOURS OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CRANIUM 3 2. Meningocele, Encephalocele, Hydrencephalocele are the terms applied to— Congenital tumours formed by a protrusion or hernia of the membranes of the brain or the brain itself, through an opening in the skull, either in the line of one of the sutures, or at some spot where the cranial bones are deficient at birth. In a Meningocele, the protrusion consists only of a sac formed by the membranes (dura mater and arachnoid) filled with subarachnoid fluid. In an EncepJialocele, the brain itself is contained in the external tumour. In a Hydrencephalocele, in addition to subarachnoid fluid, the brain itself also protrudes to some extent into the external tumour. Another variety of hydrencepha- locele is described where, in addition to brain sub- stance, the tumour contains a portion of one or both ventricles filled with fluid. These tumours form soft, rounded or oval swellings, attached by a broad base, or in some cases by a narro J pedicle, varying from the size of a pea to that of a tumour exceeding the child's head. When large, the integuments are much thinned and the skin is often of a bluish colour. Fluctuation is generally present. The tumour in- creases in size, and becomes more tense on strong expi- ratoiy efforts, as when the child cries or coughs - it is partly or entirely reducible within the cavity of the skull, and after reduction the aperture in the bone can be felt. In many cases, cerebral symptoms (from pres sure upon the brain) are produced upon their reduc" tion. Pulsation, synchronous with the pulse, can be detected when the tumour consists mainly ;f l>rain substance. '' Congenilal Tumours. Meiiiiistocele. Eacephalocele. Hj-dreuceplia- locele.4 EEGIONAL SUEGEEY Conr/eiutal Tumours. — In exceptional cases, however, where the aperture to the skull is very small, or where it has become oblite- rated after birth, the symptoms just described as pecu- liar to these tumours of intracranial origin may be altogether absent. They may form in the line of any of the sutures, or at any of the fontanelles, but are most commonly situated in the middle line, often at the back of the head just behind the foramen magnum. Another favourite seat is at the root of the nose between the two halves of the frontal bone, or in the temporal fossa near its external angular process. Much more rarely a protrusion of the membranes of the brain may take place at the base of the skull, causing a swelling at the back and upper part of the pharynx. The same condition has been found at the point of junction of the frontal and ethmoidal bones, the meningocele under these circumstances presenting itself as a tumour on the roof of the nasal fossae. Sebaceous Cysts. 3. Small round or oval tumours, often somewhat flattened, and not uncommonly multiple, present at birth, slowly increasing in size, and rarely attaining a greater diameter than about two thirds of an inch, are congenital sebaceous, dermoid, or cutaneous cysts. These tumours have often deep attachments, being connected with the pericranium, in some cases perforating one or both tables of the skull, and not unfrequently lying in contact with the dura mater. Sometimes they contain hair in their interior. Small meningoceles or encepha- loceles are very liable to be mistaken for these tumours, but they may be distinguished by the fact that a seba- ceous cyst is not reducible, never pulsates, does not in- crease in size on violent expiratory movements, and is often found in situations where a meningocele could not exist. If pressure upon the tumour causes cerebralTUMOURS OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CRANIUM 5 Congemlal rumours. symptoms it may nevertheless be a sebaceous tumour lying in contact with the dura mater. 4. Capillary Ncevus.—A slightly elevated or flattish staining of the skin, of reddish, bluish, or purplish colour, is a capillary ncevus or " mother's mark." Venotcs Ncdvus.—A more or less prominent swelling, soft and puffy to the touch, at times somewhat lobu- lated, diminished in size on compression, and slowly swelling up again when pressure is removed, without bruit or pulsation, increasing in size during strong ex- piratory efforts, of a blue or purplish colour, is a venous ncevus, involving usually both skin and subcuta- neous tissue. This variety of vascular tumour is often of consider- able size at birth, and, as the result of external irritation, the skin over it not uncommonly becomes abraded or slightly ulcerated. The purely venous nsevi are usually confined to the subcutaneous tissue, those involving the skin only being always of a capillary nature; where, however, both skin and subcutaneous tissue are implicated, the nsevus is generally of the mixed kind, viz. both venous and capil- lary. 5. The scalp is not unfrequently the seat of moles, i.e. Moles, pigmented spots or patches, varying in size and usually of congenital origin. The patches, which are on a level with the surrounding surface, or more or less raised above it, may be smooth or covered with long hairs, hence the term " nsevus pilosus " or hairy mole. Moles are liable to undergo various degenerative Acquired changes, and may in after-life become the seat of mela- notic sarcoma or epithelioma. 6. Movable tumours of slow growth, soft to the Sebaceous Cy»ts. touch and at times fluctuating, varying ia size from aREGIONAL SURGERY 6 pea to an orange, often multiple, and in many cases hereditary, without pulsation and non-reducible, are sebaceous, cutaneous, dermoid cysts or wens. The skin covering them is unaffected, but on attempting to raise it from the tumour a slight dimpling is often observed, and a black point is sometimes present on the summit of the tumour, indicating the opening of a hair follicle, and showing that the tumour was formed by the ob- struction of the duct of a sebaceous gland. In other cases, when no such dimpling or obstruction of a follicle is apparent, the tumour is probably a new formation of a cystic nature, developed in the skin. The contents of the cyst consist of sebaceous matter, more or less inspissated, mixed with epidermal scales, and not unfrequently crystals of cholesterine are also present. The acquired form of sebaceous tumour differs from the congenital (3) in its more superficial situation, always being developed in connection with the skin, and lying above the occipito-frontalis or its aponeurosis. As the result of some irritation, the skin over a seba- ceous cyst may ulcerate and give way, and the contents of the tumour having discharged themselves externally, an irregular growth, consisting of exuberant gi-anula- tions, may spring from the internal surface of the cyst- wall, and presenting itself externally as a fungating vascular mass, may simulate very closely an epithelio- matous ulcer of the scalp (15). The diagnosis may be made by attention to the history of the case, viz. by the previous existence of a tumour, probably for some length of time, having all the characteristics of a sebaceous cyst; also by the absence of any infiltration of the margins of the open- ing, as would be the case in an epitheliomatous ulcer.TUMOTTES OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CRANIUM Acquired, Timours- Tu- niours. a. Affivi. ^. Cirsoid Aneurism. y. Aneurism by anastosmosis. S. Arterial Vurix. 7. NcBvi are generally congenital (4) or make their v-ascui^ appearance soon after birth. In some cases, however, they are first met with at later periods of life, and then probably they are of traumatic origin. A large, irregular, compressible, somewhat lobulated, pulsating tumour, with the skin covering it unchanged or thinned, and of a blue or purplish colour, over which a bruit can be heard, with enlarged and tortuous arte- ries running into it, pressure on which partly arrests the pulsation, situated most commonly in the neigh- bourhood of the branches of the temporal artery is a vascular or erectile tumour, made up chiefly of enlarged and tortuous arteries. The tumour is termed— Cirsoid Aneurism when the trunks of the larger vessels are involved. Aneurism hy Anastomosis when the smaller vessels and capillaries are chiefly affected. Arterial Varix when the trunk of a single vessel (as in the case of a varicose vein) is dilated, tortuous, and lengthened. 8. Solid rounded elevations of the skin and subcuta- oummata. neous tissue, single or often multiple, and collected into groups, very liable to break down and ulcerate, are syphiUtic gummata, and along with them there will usually be found other evidences of constitutional syphilis. 9. Nodes.—A circumscribed swelling, round or oval Nodes, in shape, soft and doughy, often fluctuating, fixed and immovable, attended by more or less pain, which is often worse at night, is a local periostitis or node, which may be due to syphilis, rheumatism, struma, or injury. The sypJdlitic node is the most common variety, and a. SyphiliticAcquired ^ KEGIONAL STTEGEET Tmnonrs. may occur in either the secondary or tertiary stage of the constitutional affection. In the secondary node, the periosteum, thickened and inflamed, is raised up and separated from the bone by a more or less fibrinous effusion. Along with this there is generally associated some inflammation of the surface of the bone itself. The simple inflammatory swelling thus formed may become absorbed and dis- appear, or it may ossify and remain as a permanent periosteal thickening, sometimes termed a "syphilitic exostosis." In the tertiary node there is, in addition to simple periostitis, a deposit of gummatous matter in and upon the surface of the bone, which is very liable to soften and break down, exposing a carious or necrosed condi- tion of the bone itself. Syphilitic nodes are often multiple, and usually attended by considerable pain, which is worse at night. *. Rheumatic. The rheumatic node is a much rarer affection than the preceding; it is usually single, and unattended with much pain, even at night. It is softer and more fluctu- ating than the syphilitic variety. The cranium is the favourite seat of this form of local periostitis, which is due to simple inflammatory thickening of the periosteum and fibrinous effusion between it' and the bone. c. strumous. The so-called "strumous" node differs from the pre- ceding varieties in the fact that it is hardly ever a purely periosteal swelling. In this form there is thick- ening and expansion of the osseous tissue itself, but the swelling is chiefly due to infiltration of the periosteum and superjacent soft tissues with inflammatory exuda- tion, which is very prone to break down, exposing a soft and carious condition of the bone. A variety of strumous node is described as due to aTITMOTJKS OP SCALP AND VAULT OP CRANITTM 9 Jcquirei Tumours. circumscribed deposit of tubercle outside the bone, but this condition is very rare. 10. The bones of the cranium are sometimes the seat sarcomata, of sarcomatous growths, which may spring either from the bone or periosteum. Periosteal Sarcomata usually appear as rapidly grow- a. Periosteal, ing tumoui-s connected with the exterior of the bones of the skull. They are commonly multiple, and, though the neighbouring lymphatic glands usually escape, they are soon followed by secondary growths in internal organs, rapidly destroying life. Central Sarcomata usually appear as rapidly growing »■ Central, tumours springing from the diploe of the cranial bones. They closely resemble the preceding in their rapid course and fatal termination, but differ in the fact that the primary growth is rarely multiple, and is usually found in somewhat older subjects. 11. Smooth globular tumours, hard to the touch and Exostosis, perfectly immovable, springing from the cranial bones, causing generally no pain, of small size, slow growth, and often multiple, are ivory exostoses. This growth may be distinguished from the " syphi- litic exostosis," or periosteal node that has undergone ossification, by the absence of any inflammatory sym- ptoms, by its slower progress, and by its uniform hard- ness throughout its whole course. 12. Fungous Tumours of the Dura Mater, or Perforat- Fungous Tu- ing Tumours of the Shull.—Under these titles are de- Dura Mater, scribed cancerous and simple growths growing from the membranes of the brain, mainly from the dura mater, and perforating the skull, distinguished by the im- perfect pulsation they receive from the subjacent brain or from their own rich vascular supply, and also by the cerebral symptoms which they produceAcquired 'IHtmours 10 REGIONAL STJEGEET Abscess. £pitlielioma. from pressure, such as headache, epileptiform convul- sions, &c. Probably many of the growths formerly described under this name are sarcomatous tumours, springing from the diploe of the bone, or which, originating either from the dura mater or pericranium, penetrate the skull either from within or without, and subsequently present themselves externally as more or less fungat- ing tumours. 14. A soft, fluctuating, more or less rapidly forming swelling, preceded by symptoms of inflammation, which will vary in intensity according as the process is of an acute or chronic character, is probably an abscess. If superficial to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the suppuration is usually limited in extent, forming a well-defined swelling; but if beneath, it may (as in the case of extravasation of blood) spread widely in the loose areolar tissue between the aponeurosis of the muscle and the pericranium. In many cases an abscess of the scalp is due to some cause of local irritation, e.g. pediculi, or it may form as the result of injury, or without any apparent cause; when occurring in syphilitic subjects, it is often due to the softening and breaking down of a gummatous de- posit (8, 9 a.) When situated behind the ear, an abscess may be due to suppuration of a lymphatic gland (17), or to disease of the mastoid process (361). When at the back of the scalp, it may be connected with the oc- cipital lymphatic glands (17). 16. Epithelioma may attack the scalp in the form of a foul ulcer with a hardened base, raised and irregular surface, and prominent, everted and indurated edges. After a time the neighbouring lymphatic glands become enlarged and nodular, and the surrounding parts be-TUMOTJES OF SCALP AND VAULT OP CEANIUM 11 Jcqmred Tumours. coming gradually involved, the subjacent tone may subsequently become implicated in the disease. The characteristic appearance of the ulcer, the history of the case, and in many cases the age of the patient (usually over 40), will usually serve to distinguish epi- thelioma from a fungating sebaceous cyst (6), with which affection it is liable to be confounded. 16. The scalp may become the seat of " horns" or Honis. warty growths. These structures usually result trom the drying up of the contents of a sebaceous cyst, which has either ruptured spontaneously or been burst acci- dentally ; in other cases they resemble more the struc- ture of a simple wart or papilloma. 17. Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands at the back Enlarged Glands, of the head along the attachment of the occipito-frontalis (occipital), or behind the ear at the upper end of the sterno-mastoid (posterior auricular), is often seen and may be due to numerous causes (246, 247, 248). The inflammation, to which the enlargement is most commonly due, and which may be either of an acute or a chronic nature, may gradually subside, or it may go on to suppuration and the formation of an abscess (14). 18. Lipomata or Fatty Tumours are sometimes met Lipoma, with on the scalp, most commonly in the occipital re- gion and at the back of the neck (268.) 19. Fibromata, Molluscum Fibrosum, or small tumours Fibroma, consisting of a simple outgrowth of the connective tissue elements of the skin, are sometimes met with at the posterior part of the scalp and back of the neck. The little tumours, which are often multiple, are at first sessile, but as they slowly increase in size they be- come pedunculated and pyriform in shape; they are usually of softish consistence, and are covered by normal skin. They generally occur in adults, giving rise to noTumours of Traumatic Origin. 12 REGIONAL SUKGEET Hsematnmata or Blood Tumours. pam or inconvenience, except from the deformity they produce. 20. Extravasation of hlood occurring in the scalp may take place in one of three situations, viz, a. Cutaneous—in the integument superficial to the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis tendon. 13. Subaponeurotic—in the loose cellular tissue be- neath the occipito-frontalis, between the muscle or its tendon, and the pericranium, y. Subpericanial—between the pericranium and the bone. o. Cutaneous. When extravasation of blood occurs in the dense cellular tissue which connects the skin to the occipito- frontalis and its tendinous aponeurosis, it is usually limited in extent, presenting itself as a small, well- defined, more or less hard unyielding swelling. When extravasation takes place in the loose cellular tissue between the tendon of the occipito-frontalis and the pericranium, owing to the laxity of the tissue in this situation, it is usually much more widely spread, in some cases extending over one side or even the whole of the scalp, the swelling being generally most promi- nent in the temporal region. This variety most com- monly occurs in children as the result of a fall or blow. When limited, the fluctuating swelling which is formed may simulate an abscess, from which, however, it may be distinguished by the absence of any symptoms of inflammation, and also by the history of the case. The blood-tumour, which is formed in the cellular tissue between the pericranium and bones of the skull, usually occurs in new-born children as the result of pressure upon the head during delivery. Owing to the connection between the pericranium and the subjacent bones being especially strong at the p. SubaponeU' rotic. y. Subpericra- nial.TTJMOITES OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CEANITJM. 13 Tumours of Traumatic Origin. diflferent sutures, this form of extravasation is generally confined to a single bone, and is bounded by a distinct ridge. It is most commonly situated over one of tlie parietal bones, occasionally over both, and is more fre- quent in male than female children. The tumour generally increases in dimension for the first few hours after birth, and may reach the size of a small orange. It is not unlikely to be confounded with a meningocele or encephalocele (2), but may be distinguished by its usual situation, viz. over one of the parietal bones and not at a fontanelle, or in the line of a suture, by the absence of pulsation, by no increase in size occurring during violent expiratory efforts, and also by its non- reducibility on pressure. The term cephalhcsmatoma is often made to include the different varieties of blood-tumour occurring on the scalp, but by some writers it is applied only to the subpericranial variety. 21. When a blood tumour of the scalp has existed Diagnosis of . . HsemHtoma for some time, it often becomes bounded at its margin from depressed by a hard ridge or raised border formed of thickened skull, tissue and inflammatory exudation; under these cir- cumstances the soft centre, surrounded by a raised and hardened margin, may simulate a fracture of the vault of the skull with depression of the fragments. The diagnosis between the two affections may be made as follows:Tumours of Traumatic Origin. REGIONAL STTKGEET Diagnosis of Scematoma from Bejpressed Fracture of Vault of Skull. Pott'8 Puffy Tumour. ScBmatoma. 1. The margin bounding the depression is raised above the level of the surrounding surface of the skull. 2. The margin is rounded, and on pressing the finger-nail upon it an impression can often be made. 3. The outline is regular, and often creseentic. 4. The apparent depression within the ridge will probably yield sufficiently to the pressure of the finger, so that the smooth surface of the skull can be felt below. 5. No symptoms of compres- sion of brain. Fracture. 1. The margin of the depres- sion is on a level with the sur- rounding surface of the skull. 2. The margin is sharp and irregular, and upon pressure no impression can be made upon it. 3. The outline is very vari- able, often irregular. 4. If any bone can be felt at the bottom of the depression it will be loose and irregular. 5. Cerebral symptoms pro- bably present. 22. A circumscribed " pufEv " tumour forming upon the scalp some days after the receipt of an injury (wHcli may or may not have been accompanied by ex- ternal wound), attended by symptoms of inflammation of the brain or its membranes, terminating in coma or paralysis, generally indicates the presence of pus between the bone and dura mater at the seat of injury. The puffy swelling upon the uninjured scalp, or in the neighbourhood of the external wound, when one is present, is the result of a localised periostitis excited by the injury, and the inflammation thus excited ex- tending inwards, and involving in succession the diploeTUMOTTES OF SCALP AND VATTLT OF CRANITTM 15 Tumours of Traumatic Origin, and inner table, is generally followed by intracranial suppuration (i. e. between the bone and dura mater). 23. A circumscribed swelling connected witb the bone Nodes, and periosteum, attended by considerable pain, worse at night, appearing on the cranium shortly after the receipt of an injury, is a traumatic node, the result of a localised inflammation of the periosteum. 24. A fungating mass, of ten pulsating synchronously Semia Cerebri, with the brain, consisting of cerebral substance, more or less mingled with inflammatory products, following laceration or sloughing of the dura mater, the result of a compound fracture of the skull, or the removal of a portion of the skull-cap with a trephine for injury or disease, is a hernia cerebri or protrusion of the brain. It is termed a false hernia cerebri when the protruded mass consists mainly of inflammatory exudation and granulation tissue, and true hernia cerebri when it is composed chiefly of real cerebral substance. 25. A small fluctuating swelling, situated upon some Collections of ^ . . ^ . . cerehro-apiiial part of the vault of the cranium, in some cases exhibit- fluid, ing slight pulsation, more or less completely reducible, varying in size from time to time, but generally be- coming larger and more tense during violent expiratory efforts or on lowering the head, usually occurring in children, and following an injury to the head, generally unaccompanied by any external wound, is a collection of cerebrospinal fluid beneath the tissues of the scalp.* This condition is generally the result of a simple fracture of the vault of the sliull, whereby the subarach- noid space, or possibly one of the ventricular cavities of the brain having been laid open, the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes through the crack or fissure in the bone, and gives rise to the localised swelling beneath the tissues * Clemtiut Lucas,' Guy's Hospital Reports,' 1876, 1881.„ .16 REGIONAL STJEGERY Tumours of Traumatic Origin. — of the scalp. In some cases the edges or margins of the fissure through which the fluid escapes can be felt through the scalp in the neighbourhood of the tumour. If the swelling is explored with a fine trocar, a clear liquid will be extracted, presenting the usual character- istics of cerebro-spinal fluid.CHAPTER II AFFECTIONS OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CEANItTBI b. Cutaneous. 26. Phlegmonous or Cellulo-cutaneous.—A hot, tense, Erysipelas, painful swelling of the scalp, spreading rapidly over the " monous. whole or greater part of the head, and often involving the face, attended by considerable oedema, showing a great tendency to terminate in suppuration and slough- ing of the soft structures, so that the pericranium is often destroyed and the bone exposed, accompanied by rigors and severe constitutional disturbance, is phleg- monous or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas, probably ap- pearing in connection with some injury to the scalp. CzitoeoMs.—When of an idiopathic nature, viz. occur- ing without any external wound, the cutaneous tissues only are often involved, and under these circumstances the affection generally runs its course without being attended by formation of pus. 27. A sinus, or unhealthy ulcerated surface, dis- Necrosis, charging fetid pus, with the surrounding soft parts thick- ened, infiltrated, and undermined, leading down to bare bone, which can be detected with a probe, is found in cases of necrosis of the bones of the cranium, the result probably of syphilis, struma, or some injury which has been followed by destruction of the perios- teum, and consequent death of the subjacent bone. 28. Thickenings of the cranial bones, especially Osteoid tiucke,,. parietal and frontal, most marked at the margins of the rK'er " 2REGIONAL STTEGEEY 18 anterior fontanelle, and producing more or less distinct prominences in this situation, occurring in young children the subjects of congenital syphilis, usually ■within the first two years of life, are due to syphilitic osteitis, the substance of the bone itself being involved, as well as that of the periosteum covering it. In many cases there are four of these little bosses or prominences round the anterior fontanelle, separated from one another by the coronal and sagittal sutures. From the supposed resemblance to the " nates," the term " natiform eminences" is sometimes applied to the little elevations or thickenings of the bones of the skull produced in this way. The thickenings of the frontal bone continuing may, at a later period of life, produce the peculiar and cha- racteristic protuberance of the frontal eminences, which is so diagnostic of hereditary syphilis (47).* Craniotabes. 29. Abnormal softening of portions of the occipital and parietal bones, causing them to yield to moderate pressure and impart to a finger pressed upon them a sensation like that derived from stif£ parchment or from the surface of a bladder, is craniotahes, or extreme thinning, followed in some cases by perforation of the bones of the skull, the result of the pressure of the brain and the counter-pressure of the pillow upon the softened and spongy osseous tissue. This condition is sometimes found in young children the subjects of rickets, but by some it is looked upon as an evidence of congenital syphilis.f iiodeni Ulcer. 30. The scalp is sometimes the seat of rodent ulcer, the general appearance of which is described in Table (44). * Parrot, ' Brit. Med. Journal,' vol. i, p. 789, 429. t Ibid.AFFECTIONS OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CRANIUM 19 * Paget, ' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. Ix. 31. A sinus behind the ear, discharging pus and ^^jiagto\^''pj.o leading down to bare bone, is often found in cases of <=esa. disease of the mastoid process (361). In other in- stances, it may simply be the result of non-closure of the cavity of an abscess which has formed in the soft tissues, or in connection with the lymphatic glands in this situation (14). 32. We find two types of head associated with ^''''P^ of rickets. Rickets. In some cases it is of a square shape, as though flattened on its superior, lateral, and antero-posterior aspects, so that the forehead and parietal protuberances are unduly prominent (33), In other cases it is long and narrow, as though com- pressed from side to side, the forehead projecting and its antero-posterior diameter being unusually length- ened. At the same time we find that the sutures and fon- tanelles are late in closing, and craniotabes (29) is occasionally present. 33. Hypertrophy, or enlargement and thickenins of Hypertrophy , . ° ° Cranium. tiie bones ot the cranmm, may be due to various causes. It may be dependent upon simple chronic inflammatory changes, the result of injury, syphilis, or struma; or it may be due to rickets, ostitis deformans, leontiasis ossea. It is also produced in some cases of osteo- malacia. In Rickets the bones of the cranium, especially the «• Ricketg! parietal and frontal eminences, are often much thick- ened, and consequently unduly prominent (32), owing to the development of new osseous tissue from the deeper layers of the periosteum. In Ostitis deformans* the cranium very slowly and i. OstitiR de-* Paget, ' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. Ix. Uyptrtrojihy of (h-anium. 20 EEGIONAL SUEGEEY c. Leontiasis 03sea. gradually increases in size, owing to thickening of the bones entering into its formation. The bones of the face generally remain unaffected, retaining their normal condition. At the same time the normal curvatures of the vertebral column gradually become much exagge- rated, so that the patient's stature is considerably diminished, while the spine itseK becomes stiff and rigid (308 c). The long bones of both upper and lower extremities enlarge and soften, becoming in many instances un- usually curved and misshapen. This affection, which appears to be of a chronic in- flammatory nature, is very rarely met with before middle life. It runs a very slow course, usually lasting for many years. A curious feature in connection with it is that malig- nant disease (especially cancer or sarcoma attacking some portion of the skeleton) eventually shows itself in a large proportion of the subjects of this affection. This condition differs from leontiasis ossea in two important points:—1st, in the more advanced age of the patients ; 2nd, in the fact that the facial bones are not involved. In Leontiasis ossea* a very rare affection, which is generally met with in early life, sometimes in young children, the bones of the cranium and, in addition, those of the face (and in some cases those of the ex- tremities also),becoming greatly thickened and enlarged (108). In consequence of these changes, the cavity of the cranium is greatly contracted, and when the bones of the face are involved (in which respect it differs from ostitis deformans) the orbits, antrum, frontal sinuses,AFFECTIONS OF SCALP AND VAULT OF CBANItTM 21 Hypertrophy of Cranium. d. Osteo- malaciii. and nasal fossae, gradually become encroached upon, so that after a time these cavities are often found more or less completely obliterated. In certain cases of Osteomalacia the bones of the skull are after death found to be thickened, irregular in structure, and very porous, presenting a peculiar mor- tary appearance. Hypertrophy of the cranium, due to thickening of its bones, must not be confounded with the enlargement or expansion of its cavity, dependent upon chronic hydro- cephalus (34). 34. In Chronic hydrocephalus, owing to accumulation Hydrocephalus, of fluid in the ventricles of the brain and subarachnoid space, the cranial bones become expanded and thinned, sometimes to such an extent as to yield a crackling sensation on pressure; the fontanelles and sutures are at the same time widened out and rendered unduly prominent, so that in many cases fluctuation can be distinctly felt. The head is consequently much enlarged and the forehead projects; the eyeballs protrude, owing to pres- sure from within upon the orbital j)lates of the frontal bone. In comparison with the size of the cranium, the lower part of the face looks unusually small. Hydro- cephalus is either congenital or comes on soon after birth, and is in many cases found associated with rickets. 35. The scalp is not unfrequently the seat of one of the following affections: in two instances. Tinea ton- surans and Tinea favosa, the condition is dependent upon the presence of a vegetable parasite. In Eczema the eruption consists of irregular groups of small vesicles situated on patches of inflamed skin j Cutaneous Affections Eczema.Cutaneous yiffec- tions. Impetigo. 22 BEGIONAL ST3TIGEEY Eczema impetigi- nodes. Pityriasis. Psoriasis. Herpes zoster. these bursting, discharge their contents and form scabs and yellowish crusts, by which the hairs are matted to- gether. In Impetigo the eruption consists of numerous small pustules, grouped together in clusters, which burst and form thick scabs and incrustations, glueing together and entangling the hair. In many cases the eruption is accompanied by enlargement of the cervical glands, and appears to be due to the irritation caused by the presence of pediculi. The connection between eczema and impetigo is a very close one, and by some impetigo is regarded as a pus- tular form of eczema. A combination of the two affections is not at all uncommon, the pustules of the former being often present along with the vesicles of the latter. In Pityriasis the scalp is covered by an increased formation of very fine epidermic scales, like those of bran, which are readily rubbed off and fall in the form of scurf or fine powder. There is no thickening or apparent inflammation of the cutis, as in psoriasis, and the affection is of an entirely superficial cha- racter. In Psoriasis the skin, which is somewhat thickened and inflamed, is covered with raised patches of dry white epidermic scales. It is distinguished from eczema, with which it is somewhat liable to be confounded, by the fact that the thickened patches are simply made up of proliferating epidermic scales, and not of dried-up secretion, as is the case in that affection. An eruption of vesicles on slightly-inflamed patches of skin, arranged in groups, often preceded by a sensa- tion of heat and local pain of a neuralgic character, situated upon one side of the forehead, and followingAFFECTIONS OF SCALP AND TAULT OF CRANIUM 23 p^^^^^^,,^ jp,, lions. tlie course of tlie frontal nerves, is an instance of Rerpes zoster or " Shingles" (H. frontalis). Along with other symptoms of constitutional syphi- ^'"P^^^'^^ 'yp^'"^- lis, and most commonly during the earlier stage, the hair of the scalp, becoming dry and withered, comes away ia large quantities, and leaves the patient more or less completely bald. Pityriasis is often present at the same time, the shedding of the hair being often accompanied by superficial desquamation of the epidermis. In Tinea tonsurans, or ringworm, there are round or Tinea tonsurans ° -J OY Kingworm. oval, slightly elevated patches on the scalp, covered with fine white scales, upon which the hairs, rendered dry and brittle by the invasion of the fungus, have been broken off close to the skin. The patches tend to increase in size, spreading at their circumference, and in some cases reach consider- able dimensions. The disease, which is usually found in children, is due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, the TricopJiyton tonsttrans, the spores and tubes of which will be seen if the scales or hairs are examined tmder the microscope. In Tinea favosa portions of the scalp are covered with ^inea favosa, small, yellow, cup-shaped crusts, each of which contains a hair in its centre. As the disease progresses the crusts, increasing in size and becoming confluent, pro- duce large, irregular, thickened yellowish masses, which on their removal leave somewhat ulcerated sur- faces. In some cases a peculiar offensive odour is per- ceived, like that of mice or cat's urine. This affection, which is most common in children, is only occasionally met with in this country; it is due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, Achorion Schonleinii, and if the yel- low scabs or crusts are examined microscopically they24 REGIONAL SUEGEET will be found to be made up of the spores and tubes of the fungus. Tinea decaivans In Tinea decalvans or Alopecia areata tbere are round areata. or oval patches of baldness, from which the hair is com- pletely removed. The patches are distinguished from those of Tinea tonsurans by the fact that the skin is perfectly smooth, and not covered by fine epidermic scales and short truncated hairs, as in that disease. It is said to be due to a vegetable parasite, the Microsporon Audouini, but in most cases the presence of the fungus cannot be detected.CHAPTER ni INJURIES or THE HEAD 36. As a consequence of some local injury without Contusion, external wound, blood may be effused in small quantity into the tissues of the scalp, producing an ecchymosis or simple bruise ; when, however, the injury is followed by considerable extravasation of blood, a hsematoma or blood-tumour (20) is formed. 37. Wounds of the scalp may involve only the soft Scaip-wounds, structures which enter into its formation, or they may be complicated with fracture of the skull; owing to the extreme vascularity of the scalp they are often accompanied by considerable hsemorrhage, and when the external wound is of small size, as in the case of a simple puncture, the blood may accumulate in consider- able quantity beneath the tissues of the scalp. 38. Fractures of the Skull may be divided into fracture ^'^'^gl''^" °^ of the vault and fracture of the base, or, again, into — fractvire of the vault and base combined. Fractures of the Vault may be simple or compound, a. Fractures of that is, without or with external wound; they may be classified as follows, according as one only of the tables, or as the whole thickness of the skull is involved. 1. Fracture of the outer table only. This form, in which the outer table only is depressed and driven into the diploii, is most common in the neighbourhood of the frontal sinuses, where a considerable depression may beFractures of Shtll. 26 EEGIONAIi SUEGEEY produced without the inner table being in any way injured. 2. Fracture of the inner table only, without any injury to the outer table, is a rare injury; it may be accompanied by depression of the fragments. 3. Eracture of the whole thickness of the skull—the most common variety—may occur under various forms, viz. a. Simple cracks or fissures—when there is no dis- placement of the fragments. 6. Fracture with depression—when one or more of the fragments is driven inwards. c. Fracture with elevation—when one or more of the fragments is forced outwards ; this is of very rare occurrence. d. Comminuted fracture — when there is extensive splintering of the fragments. e. Punctured fracture—when the injury being caused by a pointed instrument, the outer table is merely perforated, and the inner one extensively splintered and often depressed. /. Starred fracture—when there are numerous fissures radiating from a common centre. g. Gutter or saucer-shaped fractures—where the injury having been caused by a blunt instrument the bone is depressed in a gutter or saucer-like shape, the depression being greater at the centre than at the cir- cumference. In some cases, viz. in young children, where the bones are soft and pliable, the vault of the skull may be in- dented and driven in without being accompanied by any actual fracture beyond a slight yielding or giving way of the substance of the bone, a kind of so-called, green-stick fracture being produced.Froclnres of INJURIES OF THE HEAD 27 Skull. Simple fissures and fractures without displacement of the fragments may he unattended hj any symptoms, but when the fracture is complicated with displacement, symptoms of compression of the brain are generally present, and when there is an external wound, the fissure or depressed portion of bone can generally be seen or felt with the finger. Simple extravasation of blood, bounded by a raised and thickened margin, with an apparent depression in its centre, is very liable to be confounded with a fracture with displacement inwards of the fragments; for the diagnosis between these two affec- tions, cf. 21. Fracture of the Base may occur without any external 'BMe. ""^* ° wound, but is, in the majority of cases, a simple exten- sion downwards of a fracture of the vault, which may be either simple or compound. 1. Anterior Fossa.—In fractures of the anterior fossa, when the orbital plate of the frontal bone is involved, there is extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue of the eyelids and orbit. This extravasation is dis- tinguished from that attending an ordinary " black eye " (46) by its being more in the ocular and less in the palpebral conjunctiva, and also by its being most marked as it passes backwards towards the posterior part of the orbit. Persistent epistaxis is often present, the blood escaping through a fissure in the roof of the nasal fossa, and indicating a fracture through the ethmoid or body of the sphenoid bone. Hsematemesis is often jDresent, owing to blood which has been swallowed being rejected by the stomach. Paralysis of the nerves of the orbit may also be pro- duced. 1. Anterior Fossa.Fractures of Skull. 2. Middle i'ossa. 28 EEGIONAL SXJRGEB.T 3. Posterior Fossa. Complications of Injuries to the Head. Concussion. Discharge of a clear watery fluid (ceretro-spinal) from the nostrils is very rarely present (88). 2. Middle Fossa.—In fractures through the middle fossa involving the petrous portion of the temporal bone, hsemorrhage from the ear is often present, owing to rupture of the membrana tympani and escape of blood from one of the vascular channels at the base of the skull which has been wounded in the fracture (351). Discharge of clear watery fluid from the ear is often associated with the hsemorrhage, and is due to escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, owing to the prolongation of arachnoid which accompanies the seventh pair of nerves having been laid open, when the fracture involves the internal auditory canal (352). Paralysis of the facial nerve and deafness are often present (58). 3. Posterior Fossa.—Fractures involving the posterior fossa are often followed by extravasation of blood in the neighbourhood of the mastoid process, or in the occipital region, or at the side of the neck; in many instances there will be tenderness on pressure over the mastoid process, and when the mastoid cells are involved emphysema may be also present (277). 39. Any injury of the head, whether it be a simple contusion, scalp wound, or fracture of the skull, may be followed by symptoms of concussion or compression of the hrain. Concussion.—Bj concussion of the brain is meant the state of shock or nervous depression which follows an injury to the head, and which in some cases is said to depend upon simple disturbance of the cerebral circulation, while in others it is attended by some visible lesion of the brain or its blood-vessels (contusion of brain substance or minute extravasations of blood).Fractnrei of 29 INJTTKIES OF THE HEAD Skull. Compression.—Compression of the brain may be pro- compression, duced in several ways, e. g. from the presence of— 1. Depressed bone. 2. Blood extravasated upon the surface of tbe brain or its membranes, or into its substance. 3. Pus formed within the skull. 4. Foreign bodies lodged within the skull. In the following table the main points of diagnosis between concussion and compression are laid down : Tahle sliowing Chief Points of Distinction between Con- cussion and Compression of Brain. Onset of symptoms Mental faculties Respiration Pulse Skin Tempera- ture Pupils Concussion. Immediately after the receipt of the injury Partial insensibility: patient can be roused to answer questions Quiet, shallow, ii-regu- lar Quick, weak, irregu- lar or intermittent Cold and clammy Lowered Often contracted: sen- sible to light Compression. If due to extravasation of blood, the injury is imme- diately followed by symp- toms of concussion; these may pass off, and then after an interval of more or less perfect consciousness, those of compression set in; or, ■without any return of con- sciousness, the symptoms of concussion may speedily pass into those of compres- sion. If due to depressed bone, pus, or foreign bodies cf. (39 ; 2, 3). Complete or profound insen- sibility. Slow, laboured, stertorous. Slow and full. May be cool, but often hot and perspiring. Normal or increased. Dilated or unequal: sluggisli or insensible to light. Diagnosis of Con- cussion and Compression.Diagnosis of Con- cussion and Compression. 30 EEaiOSTAL SURaERT Diagnosis of Coni' pression. 1. Extravasa- ted Blood. a. Meuin- Bladder Bowels Vomiting Voluntary muscles Concussion. Not paralysed; but owing to relaxation of its sphincter, there is often an involun- tary flow of urine There is no paralysis ; but owing to relaxa- tion of the sphincter ani,there are'of ten in- voluntary discharges of f'ajces Often comes-on as the symptoms of concus- sion pass away Not paralysed, though often flaccid and much relaxed. Sphincters not para- lysed, but simply re- laxed Compression. Paralysed, therefore retention of urine is often present, followed after a time by in- continence, the result of overflow from a distended bladder. Paralysis of sphincter ani is present, and as a result in- voluntary evacuations often occur; or the bowels may be torpid and constipated. Not generally present. Paralysed, generally on one side of the body, and oppo- site to that which is the seat of compression. Sphincters are completely paralysed. Compression of the Brain may, as previously stated, be due to several causes, e. g. ; 1. Extravasation of Blood upon the surface of the brain or its membranes, or into its substance. a. When Meningeal—viz. when the extravasation takes place upon the surface of the brain or its membranes, without laceration of its substance, the symptoms of compression come on after an interval of consciousness more or less complete. The injury is followed by symptoms of concussion, from which the patient more or less perfectly recovers; then, after an interval of consciousness, symptoms of com- pression set in, and as these increase in severity he falls into a state of coma, more or less profound, accompanied by general paralysis or hemiplegia ofINJURIES OF THE HEAD 31 /3. When Cerebral—viz. wlien tlie haemorrhage is de- pendent upon laceration of some portion of the brain, and when the extravasation takes place into its sub- stance, the interval of consciousness does not occur, but the symptoms of concussion are speedily followed by those of compression. In these cases the patient is generally restless and excited ; the paralysis is usually incomplete, and conviilsive movements and twitching of the limbs are often associated with it, affecting chiefly the side of the body opposite to that which is the seat of the cerebral lesion. 2. Depressed Bone or a Foreign Body. When due to the presence of depressed bone or the lodgment of a foreign body, the symptoms of compres- sion are present from the first, following the injury at once without any interval of consciousness. 3. Pus formed within the skull. When due to the presence of pus, the symptoms of compression come on a considerable time after the re- ceipt of the injury, often not for ten or fourteen days, and are preceded by symptoms of inflammation of the brain or its membranes, e.g. considerable pyrexia, great heat of head, hot skin, quick pulse, flushed face, pain in the head, intolerance of light and sound, and more or less delirium. Rigors often occur in the later stages of the inflammatory process, and are usually diagnostic of the commencement of sup- puration. When present, Pott's puffy tumour (22) is a valuable indication of the formation of pus within the skull. Diagnosis of Compression. the side opposite to that which was the seat of in- — ^. Cerebral. 2. Depressed Bone or Foreigu Body. 3. Pus.CHAPTEE IV AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 40. The face is a favourite seat of Acne vulgaris, a disease of fhe skin, most common about the age of puberty, characterised by the appearance of small tubercles or pustules, the result of obstruction of the sebaceous glands and effusion into the skin around them. It is termed : Acne punctata—-when the retained secretion (*' co- medo"), acting as an irritant, excites only a slight amount of inflammatory redness. Acne indurata—when in addition to redness, there is a considerable amount of exudation round the tubercles. Acne pustulosa—when suppuration takes place at the apex of the tubercles. Acne rosacea—when the tubercles are accompanied by considerable hypersemia of the surrounding skin, due to injection of the capillaries, producing a red, shining, greasy appearance. This form is most commonly seen on the nose, whence it may extend to the adjacent parts of the cheek. Acne hypertrophica is a more advanced form of the last condition, accompanied by considerable hypertrophy of the surrounding tissues, as a result of which the nose becomes much enlarged and covered with tuberculated and pendulous masses. To this condition, most com-33 AFFECTION'S OF THE FACE monly seen in those of intemperate habits, the term " Lipoma nasi" is sometimes applied, 41. The face, most commonly in children, is some- Moiiuacum con- times the seat of small pedunculated or sessile tumours, '^Ewsum. varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, which present on their summit a small depi'ession, the orifice of a sebaceous gland, and from which, when the tumour is squeezed, a soft white substance is forced. This condition, which is due to hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands, and not to retention of secretion, as in the case of acne, appears in some cases to be of a contagious nature. 42. The face is a favourite seat of the different forms Lupus, of lupus, the cheeks and alse nasi being the parts most commonly affected. Lupus non-exedens is characterised by an eruption of pale or reddish tubercles, covered with white scales or scabs, which on coming away leave behind a smooth, white depressed cicatrix; this form is most common on the cheeks. Lupus exedens.—In this form, the tubercles break down and ulcerate, giving rise to the presence of the lupoid ulcer, the characteristic appearance of which is described in table, p. 34. Lupus erythematosus begins generally as a reddish patch upon the nose, whence it extends to the cheeks, covered with scales or thin crusts, and seldom ulcerat- ing, but leaving a superficial white scar, which is often permanent. Extending in this manner, the charac- teristic " butterfly" appearance is produced, the patches on the cheeks representing the wings, and that on the nose the body of the butterfly. This variety of lupus is usually met with at a more advanced age than the preceding forms, viz. gene- 334 REGIONAL SUEGEEY to 1^ 3 1^ s o MS CO o f-i .2 a s ^ a O M si ^-S a 0) . !h to 535 5 (U ^ O "3 C O S CM ^ ,i3 ^ 0 C3 O a _ M S3 2 a ^ 8 S 2 a S -3 M = 1 <u 5 ^ , a " • o <D O CD P C HI S o s o pi: o o > P Ph &D PI 3 o a cs -^2 a> P 2 ^ p ^ . 53 > b g ^ .9-a p 03 U U t4 ' «.2 CI o3 p-3 P ai " g g * a S ^ ^ p £ g p beg. S -r p ;3 o ^ p bo -•^ P e 5 P (D > t3 P bo S 02 6C P P 03 to 0) ai -3 13 P p p ^ p 5 P P P s CO p \1 S3 P P 'p ,2 ^ 13 1^ P R « O C S P ^--r u ^ g .5 P a; tici3 - eS P m ^ ^ 13 p Jr5 _o <i> t: P '-3 ^ CO P 'O P P m o P Ph P a p •t3 o CO § ^ g ^ •T3 p. p b 2 =i 2 ^< 2 P a -P Cu p4 c3 P -t^ t>-. ■' CO o3 P !>^-P S A" P -F p cu a bD^ M -:3 P P ao p be 0) CO a s r3 SS P rP «4 P u 0^13 o =^ 2 <o u P s a p bc/3 £. be «p g o P P o C P 0) P4 P 1-0 p bo a p ■-(3 0 g "bp o g u p boAFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 03 a .2 a -gSS^ "-"-a S^sl^ ui ^ ^ o< r3 in CO rt W)'a S § a o ID a t: rul <U 0) »—< o enei a no be si CS a a od; th >ys t ealth No No a) ^ u e3 O a53 > .S o -S a o -a •3 -5 :2 .2 o +3 fee u a =4- es O " a C O) u Oh a ^ o a toj p » •S X) a S oJ o a o 0) .a a •2 .2 a-^ .2 § ■Sal OJ aj S CO IS J3 Pi O U a <u Oh a u a: "a a 5 <U u36 EEGIONAL SXJEGEBT Leprosy. Ulceration. Syphilitic. Strumous. rally in middle life, and most commonly in tlie female sex. 43. In tlie tubercular form of leprosy, " Lejpra tube- rosa," an affection rarely seen in this country, the face often becomes studded over with small round tubercles, varying in size from a small pea to a nut. The nose, cheeks, forehead, lips, and chin are all liable to become affected, as a result of which the countenance is much altered, giving rise to the presence of the so-called " facies leontina." 44. Ulceration of the Face may be due to Lupus, Bodent ulcer, Epithelioma, Syphilis, or Struma. In the table, p. 34, the differential diagnosis between lupoid ulcera- tion,'rodent ulcer, and epithelioma is laid down. As one of the later symptoms of constitutional syphilis, ulceration of the face is not unfrequently met with, the result of the breaking down of the tubercular syphilides, or of gummatous deposits in the skin and subcutaneous In the former case, the tubercles breaking down and ulcerating form multiple, more or less circular sores, which when they heal, leave behind indelible white scars ' To this form the term syphilitic lupus is some- times apphed. When due to the softening and break- ing down of gummatous deposits in the subcutaneous tissue, the ulceration extends more deeply, leaving a circular sore, which looks as if the skin had been punched out over it. •, p • x In strumous children xilceration of the face is not un- common, especially in connection with an eczematous condition of the surrounding skin. The ulceration is generally of a superficial and irregular character, with undermining of the edges of the sore; the pus usually scabs on its surface, and in many cases heahng takes37 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE place without tlie formation of any scar. This condi- uiceratio.u tion is often associated with enlargement of the lym- phatic glands in the neck, and the patient usually shows other evidences of the strumous diathesis (71). 45. Children, the subjects of congenital syphilis, often cicatrkes^rouua present a peculiar, scarred and fissured condition of the cheeks, most marked at the angles of the mouth, the relics of the cutaneous eruptions from which they suf- fered during infancy. 46. The ecchymosis or bruising of the eyelid, " black y*^- eye," the result of a direct blow upon the part, must be eye." distinguished from the effusion of blood into the same region, which follows a fracture of the base of the skull. In the case of fracture, the palpebral effusion is pre- ceded by ecchymosis of the ocular conjunctiva, and appears some time after the receipt of the injury. It is entirely subcutaneous, and is probably unattended by any bruising of the eyelid. In the case of a simple contusion there is more or less bruising of the skin, and the ecchymosis is chiefly into the cutaneous tissue. If it is accompanied by ecchy- mosis of the ocular conjunctiva, this is most marked at the anterior part of the eyeball in the neighbourhood of the cornea, fading gradually away as it passes back- wards out of sight, just the reverse of what occurs when it is due to a fracture of the base (38). 47. Children, the subjects of congenital syphilis, often Prominence of present a remarkable bulging or prommence of the nences. frontal eminences, due to thickening of the frontal bone, the result of ostitis and periostitis during infancy (28). 48. Swelling and undue prominence of the cheek may Prominence of be due to a contusion or bruise, or it may depend upon the presence of an abscess confined to the soft tissues, arising spontaneously, or forming in connection with38 REGIONAL SUEGEEY carious teeth (cf. Alveolar abscess, 111) or necrosed bone (112). Or, it may "be due to some affection of the superior maxilla pushing forwards the cheek, e.g. Suppuration within the antrum (110). Hydrops antri (cystic degeneration of the mucous lining of the antrum) (104). Solid or cystic tumours springing from the superior maxilla (104—109). 49. A fistulous opening, surrounded or covered over by projecting granulations, and discharging unhealthy pus, is probably a sinus leading down to necrosed bone (112), or the fang of a carious tooth (111). Saiiyarj-Fistula. ^ fistulous opening over the parotid gland, or in the course of Steno's duct, discharging clear saliva or a mixture of saliva and pus, is a salivary fistula, produced as the result of some obstruction in the course of the duct, e.g. a salivary calculus, or in consequence of some wound or ulcerative process by which the gland or its duct has been laid open. Abscess. ^ soft, fluctuating swelling, preceded and accom- panied by symptoms of inflammation, is probably an abscess, which may arise spontaneously or as the result of injury, or form in connection with carious teeth (111) or necrosed bone (112). Erysipelas. 52. A rapidly-spreading, hot, red, painful condition of the skin, accompanied by more or less cedematous swelling, which is often considerable when the loose areolar tissue of the eyelids becomes involved, preceded by rigors and attended by considerable elevation of temperature, not unfrequently followed by the forma- tion of vesicles or blebs, is an attack oi facial erysipelas, which may arise spontaneously or extend from a wound on the face or scalp.AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 39 If idiopathic it very commonly commences in the neighbourhood of the nose, whence it spreads, often involving the whole face and part of the scalp (26). 53. A swollen and indurated condition of the cheek Cancium oris, or lip, of a dusky red colour, quickly followed by phagedsenic ulceration and sloughing of its whole thickness, which in some cases may extend deeply and involve the gums and bones of the jaw, occurring in ill- nourished and weakly children, and often following one of the eruptive fevers, is cancrum oris, a form of gan- grene which is peculiar to childhood. 54. A painful, acute inflammatory swelling, preceded Facial Carbuncle, or accompanied by the formation of a small vesicle or pustule, commencing usually in the upper lip and rapidly extending to the face, associated with great constitutional depression, is a facial carbuncle. This form of carbuncle, which is usually found in young people between fifteen and twenty-one years of age, is often accompanied by phlebitis or thrombosis of the facial veins, and this condition, often extending to the cerebral sinuses, death not unfrequently results from an acute form of blood-poisoning. 55. Malignant Pustule or Gharlon, a contagious dis- Malignant Piis- ease communicated to man from the bodies or skins of Ijoq.'" animals that have died of splenic fever, not uncom- monly attacks the face, or any part of the body exposed to inoculation. It commences as a small papule at the seat of inocu- lation, which soon develops into a vesicle, and this after gradually enlarging bursts, and discharges a clear or bloody fluid. At the seat of the original vesicle a dry, darkish- coloured slough forms; this soon becomes surrounded by a ring of vesicles, which run a precisely similar40 EEGIONAL STJEGERT course, so that iu this way the central dark slough gradually increases in size until it reaches the dimen- sions of a shilling, or even larger. The surrounding tissue is indurated and inflamed, assuming a vivid, purplish-red colour, and the adjacent lymphatic glands become enlarged and painful. The constitutional symptoms vary in severity: in some cases they are entirely a^hsent, while in others there is high fever, with great prostration and delirium. In many instances (unless the aiJected part is freely excised in the early stage) death occurs in four or five days, or even less, from a very acute form of blood- poisoning. The prominent symptoms of this affection are the comparative absence of pain, the dry character of the central black slough, which is not accompanied by any formation of pus, the fact that the sloughing com- mences in the skin, and thence extends to the subcuta- neous tissue, and not in the reverse direction, as is the case in carbuncle, and the very fatal character of the affection, which in many cases speedily destroys life from septic poisoning. NwTi. 66. The face is very frequently the seat of ncevi, or vascular tumour, which in many cases attain a consider- able size, and may then cause much disfigurement. All three varieties are met with, viz. the capillary or " mother's mark," the venous, and the mixed form, where both skin and subcutaneous tissue are involved (4). Sebaceous Cyst. 57, The cheek is not unfrequently the seat of the simple sebaceous cyst (6), especially in male subjects, in whom it is often developed in the hairy part of the face, just in front of the ear. Facial Paralysis. 68. In paralysis of either facial nerve, the affected Bells Palsy. ^^^^ ^^^^ smooth, motionlcss, and void of ex-41 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE pression; the eyelids are widely separated, and cannot be closed; there is dropping of the angle of the mouth and often dribbling of saliva, while on the un- affected side, to which it appears to be drawn, its angle is raised. Articulation is often impaired, the patient is unable to blow or whistle, and mastication is interfered with, owing to the food collecting between the gum and cheek. In some cases there is perversion of taste, with slight thrusting of the tongue and pointing of the uvula to the affected side. This condition may be the result of—1. Organic mis- chief in the brain. 2. Injury or disease affecting the nei-ve in its course through the temporal bone. 3. Causes affecting the nerve after its emergence from the stylomastoid foramen, e. g. injury, pressure from tumours, exposure to cold, &c. The diagnosis of the condition on which it depends may be made by attention to the following points : 1. In cerebral disease, the muscles of the eyelid gene- rally escape, those only of the lower part of the face being affected. In all the other forms, the whole side of the face is paralysed. Hemiplegia is often present, affecting the opposite side of the body. 2. If due to disease of the temporal bone, deafness and otorrhoea are usually present. If due to fracture of the base of the skull, involving the petrous portion of the temporal bone, there will be a history and other evidences of injury (38). It is only when the nerve is implicated in its course through the temporal bone that the palate and tongue are affected. 3. If the nerve is affected after its emergence from the stylomastoid foramen, some cause of pressure is ob- vious, or there is a history of injury or exposure to cold.REGIONAL STJEGEBT 42 Facial Spasm. " Convulsive Tic." Evidence of Con- genital Syphi- lis. Affections of Frontal Sinuses. a. Distension. 59. Clonic spasm of a portion or the whole of the muscles supplied by the facial nerve is sometimes seen, giving rise to contortion and twitching of the affected side of the face. This condition may be due to some cerebral affection or to reflex irritation of the facial nerve, and the attacks, which usually come on in paroxysms, are unattended, by any pain, and generally disappear during sleep. 60. Children or young adults, the subjects of con- genital syphilis, often present a peculiar physiognomy, the chief characteristics of which are— Prominence of the frontal eminences (47). Imperfect development and depression of the bridge of the nose (72). Opacity of the cornea, due to interstitial keratitis. Pits and scars on the face and forehead, cicatrices and fissures on the cheeks and at the angles of the mouth (46). Malformation of the permanent teeth, especially the central incisors of the upper jaw (123). Deafness is also often present (363). If the roof of the mouth is examined, it is often found to be extremely arched, presenting a dome-shaped appearance (151). 61. Distension of the Frontal Sinus by retained mucus or pus is sometimes seen, giving rise to a prominent swelling at the upper and inner margin of the orbit above the level of the tendo-oculi, and causing displace- ment of the eyeball in a downward, outward, and for- ward direction. This condition may be the result of an injury or of inflammatory changes, in consequence of which the communication (infundibulum) which normally exists between the frontal sinus and middle meatus of theAFFECTIONS OF THE FACE jp^tign, of Frontal Sinvset. nose becomes closed; or it may depend upon some morbid condition of the sinus itself, e.g. tlie presence of polypi, hydatids, cystic or other forms of tumours. It may be either of an acute or a chronic character. When acute the distension is generally due to the presence of pus, which, accumulating in its interior and perforating its bony walls, may discharge itself either externally at the inner margin of the orbit, or internally into the nose. This condition is attended by consider- able pain of an acute or dull aching character, along with redness, tenderness, and swelling of the eyelids and soft tissues about the inner canthus. When chronic the distension is, as a rule, simply due to the accumulation of secretion, which may remain pent up for a considerable period without giving rise to any symptoms except the presence of a swelling at the inner and upper margin of the orbit, which causes a gradual displacement of the eyeball. This condition is liable to be mistaken for distension of the lachrymal sac (222). The frontal sinuses are occasionally the seat of ivory j. Exostoses. exostoses, which, in some cases having very narrow attachments, are liable to undergo spontaneous fracture at their base, and thus they may be found lying loose in the interior of the air-cells in this situation. To this variety of bony tumour the term " enostosis " is some- times applied. Similar growths are sometimes found in the interior of the antrum (108) and nasal fossae (87). The frontal sinuses are sometimes the seat of polypi, c. Polypi, which, as above described, may give rise to " disten- sion." In other cases they may cause a clear discharge from the nostril (83). Fractures involving the frontal sinus may be gene- rf. Fracture.44 BEGIONAL SUEGEKT rally easily recognised by the displacement due to de- pression of the outer table and by the presence of bony crepitus. Considerable emphysema, due to the escape of air from the sinuses into the subcutaneous tissue, is often present in the neighbourhood of the fracture, forming a more or less diffused puffy swelling, which imparts to the finger a crepitant or craclcling sensation (68). yiffections of 62. Afirm, hard, nodular, well-defined swelling, situated — ■ below and behind or in front of the lobe of the ear, ^'mourl^" stationary or of very slow growth, with deep attach- ments, but somewhat movable beneath the skin, which may be thinned over it, but is not adherent, with no enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, is a / simple tumour, probably a fibro-enchondroma or fibro- myxoma, connected with one of the lymphatic glands which lie over the parotid in this region, or springing from the fibrous capsule or substance of the gland itself. As the tumour slowly increases in size, it may dip down deeply into the substance of the gland, more or less displacing it, and often sending prolongations beneath the ramus of the jaw; at the same time it may cause paralysis of the face on the affected side from pressure on the facial nerve, and not unfrequently diflS.culty of mastication and deafness are also produced. The growth, which may consist of pure cartilage, fibro-cartilage, or a mixture of fibro-cartilage and im- perfectly formed glandular tissue, is usually invested with a tough capsule of connective tissue, which in many cases is intimately connected with the surround- ing structures. These tumours are, as a rule, of a simple nature, not returning if completely removed. Malignant Tu- g3^ rj^]^Q parotid gland may become the seat of sarcoma- mours. ± o jAFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 45 jff,,t,o„, gj- Faro lid Gland. tons or carcinomatous growths, whicli show themselves as infiltrations of the substance of the gland itself. In either case the tumour is of a more or less rapid growth, deep- seated, and immovahle, with ill-defined outline. As it in- creases in size, surrounding parts become infiltrated and incorporated with the new growth, serious pressure effects being produced. The skin covering it becomes adherent, discoloured, and the seat of ulceration, and, in the case of cancer, the neighbouring lymphatic glands become at the same time enlarged, points of importance as serving to distinguish between the simple and malienant varieties of tumour found in this situation. 64. Pain or swelling in one or both parotid regions, with stiffness of the neck, accompanied by slight febrile disturbance, and occurring usually in children, is ^arofiiis or mumps, a contagious inflammatory affection of the parotid gland, which may occur sporadically or prevail as an epidemic. The swelling gradually estends from below and in front of the ear (the situation of the parotid), along the side of the neck, as the submaxillary and subliagual sali- vary and the neighbouring lymphatic glands generally become secondarily involved. In the course of a few days the swelling gradually subsides, it being very rare for suppuration to occur. "Metastasis" occasionally takes place, that is to say, the inflammation may sud- denly leave the parotid and attack the testicle, or more rarely the mammary gland. 65. Inflammation of the Parotid Gland is not un- Aiiscess or common as a complication or sequela of some of the eruptive fevers, e. g. typhus, variola, scarlatina; more rarely, it may occur idiopathically or in the course of a case of pyaemia ; under these conditions suppuration very often takes place, differing in this respect fromREGIONAL STJEGEEY 46 what occurs in parotitis or mumps (64). If an abscess forms in its substance, it is always accompanied by severe pain, owing to the pus being confined and bound down by tbe firm fascia wbich. covers the parotid gland, and for the same reason it cannot readily point or come to the surface, but has a tendency to burrow in various directions. Mastication is always much, interfered with, and the general symptoms are of a low adynamic type. The shape of the swelling, which corresponds with the situation of the parotid, viz. in front of and below the ear, its unilateral position, its tendency to go on to suppuration, the previous history of the case, and in many cases the age of the patient, will serve to dis- tinguish this condition from simple parotitis or mumps occurring in children, with which it is liable to be con- founded. Congenital Mai- 66. Excluding the different varieties of fissure of the formation of i-tii t i> ^^ • • ^ Mouth. lips (94), the mouth IS liable to the followmg congenital malformations, viz.— a. Microstoma a. Microstoma congenitnm, or contraction of the orifice congemtuni. mouth, may be present at birth, and in many cases the deformity is associated with a defective de- velopment of the inferior maxilla. h. Atresia oris. h. Atresia oris, or complete absence of the mouth, a condition somewhat analogous to imperforate anus, is of extremely rare occurrence, cicntriciai Nar- 67. Contraction of the Orifice of the Mouth is often rowing of n c • • j • • j^i i! Mouth. produced as the result of cicatrisation m the case or burns or wounds involving the lips or cheeks and accom- panied by much loss of tissue ; also in the case of ex- tensive ulceration or destruction of the parts, e. g. lupus, cancrum oris, &c. Emphysema. 68. Emphysema of the face, due to the escape of airI AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 47 Oidema of Face. a. Renal Dis- ease. into tte subcutaneous connective tissue, and giving rise to considerable swelling of the parts, especially about the eyelids and loose areolar tissue in tlie neigbbourbood of tbe orbit, may be due to a fracture of the bones of tbe face involving some of tbe sinuses or air-cavities, e. g. frontal sinus, antrum, ethmoidal cells, nasal fossa, or it may be due to extension of the same condition from the neck or chest (277). The nature of the swel- ling is usually very characteristic; it has a peculiar puffy appearance, and is soft and compressible, com- municating to the finger pressed upon it a crackling or crepitant sensation. 69. (Edema of the face, which presents a dull white, puffy and pasty appearance, pitting on pressure, is often an early and prominent symptom in chronic renal disease. The oedema, which is generally most marked in the loose areolar tissue of the eyelids and beneath the orbit, varies from time to time, being generally most apparent in the early morning. (Edema of the face, which presents a swollen, semi- j. Myxoedema. transparent, waxy appearance, with in many cases a delicate blush on the cheeks, not pitting on pressure, most marked about the eyelids, and lips, which present a peculiar thickened appearance, usually occurring in middle-aged females, is seen in myxoedema*. This affection is by some supposed to be due to chronic kid- ney disease, but inasmuch as the urine is, at least for a considerable time, generally found to be normal and free from albumen, and nervous symptoms a,re often present, it is by others believed to be the result of " a cretinoid state coming on after adult life in women." * Ord, ' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' Ixi. Mahomed, ' Lancet,' vol. ii, 1881, p. 1079.48 REGIONAL SUKGBBY The oedema, -whicli is more or less general and forms so characteristic a symptom in tlie disease, is of a solid nature (differing from that which is present in the common forms of Bright's disease by not pitting on pressure), and appears to be due to an excess of mucin in the subcutaneous tissue, which is itself swollen and hypertrophied. Morphcen. >^q rpj^g fg^^g -g favoui-ite seat of Morphcea or Addi- son's Tceloid, a rare affection of the skin characterised by the presence of smooth, well-defined, waxy-like patches of a pale pink or yellowish colour, and sup- posed to be due to some affection of the vaso-motor nerves. The patches, which are abruptly limited by the middle line of the face, and which often follow the course of the supra-orbital or other branch of the fifth nerve (as in herpes zoster, 35), are not associated with any alteration in cutaneous sensibility, though slight tingling and tenderness on pressure are sometimes present. In some cases the sldn, fascia, and subjacent muscles all become adherent and bound down, in consequence of which the countenance becomes fixed and rigid, and a peculiar corpse-like appearance is produced. This affection, arising spontaneously, must not be confounded with the keloid of Alibert, which forms on the cicatrices of burns or any other extensive and slowly healing wound, and which presents itself in the form of gigantic tubercles, or nodular, elevated patches, of oval or fusiform shape, sending out claw- like processes, at first of. a red or pinkish colour, but gradually, as they extend, tending to become pale. strumous or Scro- 71. Struvia or Scrofula is the term applied to a con- fuionsviathens. g^-^^^-^j^j^^ diathcsis, either hereditary or acquired, inAFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 49 Strumous or Scro- , . , . fuloits Diathesis. Which there is a tendency to inflammation of a low — , j.rj.'i •, • ^ Bvidences in the type, that is to say, it is characterised by a " condition J'ace. of the body or of certain portions of the body in which inflammations are easily excited, in which they tend towards suppuration and ulceration, and in which the power of spontaneous recovery is very feeble."* The parts most frequently involved in scrofula are the sMn, mucous membranes, lymphatic glands, bones, and joints. Two forms of scrofula are described, the san- guine or serous (identical with the so-called tubercular diathesis) and the ^phlegmatic or melancholic (or scro- fula proper). Evidences of the characteristics distinctive of these two types will usually be found in the face. Table showing the Characteristic Features of the two Types of Struma. Shape of face Skiu Complexion Expression Eyes Nose Lips Teeth Lower jaw Hair Sanguine. Oval Thin, clear and transparent, the veins often showing throua:h Oftener dark than fair Bright, sharp and animated Bright and often dark; e^-elashes long and silky Sharp and longj alae con- tracted Thin White, often brittle (125) Small and angular Fine and si Iky; often dark; not over-abundant Phlegmatic. Round and plump. Thick, pasty, muddy. JJsually fair. More or less dull, heavy,and apathetic. Large and full; usu- ally pale. Large; alaj thick, no- trils open and dilated Thick, especially the upper. Soon decay (125). Larf,re and* broad. Generally fair, thick and coarse. The majority, however, of so-called " strumous sub Surg!"r24L'"°'"'' E-yC.o'f 4EEGIONAI, SUEGEEY 60 jects" belong to a medium type between the two just described. " Sucb a type would include what is known as ' p'^etty struma.' The general features of individuals, so termed, belong to the so-called ' phleg- matic ' type ; but the coarseness of the features is toned down ; the lips would be called' full,' not tumid, and a coarse flabbiness would subside into a pretty plump condition of the body. The skin may not be thin and fine, but it is soft, white, and clear. The general ex- pression is not absolutely apathetic, but would be termed rather gentle and eminently feminine."* The various affections to which the parts about the head and neck are commonly liable in these so-called strumous or scrofulous subjects are as follows : 1. ^fcm.—Various eruptions on the scalp and face: eczema, impetigo, lichen, lupus, ulceration of face (44). Eczema of the auricle and skin behind it. Otorrhoea (350). Strumous ulcerations (272), scars (273), and sinuses (271) about the neck. 2. Mucous membranes.—'Eje: tinea tarsi (195), stru- mous ophthalmia, ulceration of cornea. Nose: catarrhal inflammation, chronic thickening (83), ulceration (79), coryza (77), ozsena (78). Lip: ulceration (95), hypertrophy (102). Mouth and pharynx: catarrhal inflammation, sto- matitis (127), strumous pharyngitis (176). 3. (?Zanc?s.—Lymphatic of neck: adenitis, acute or chronic (247, 248), often going on to formation of abscess (256). Tonsils: hypertrophy (170) 4 7iomes.—Necrosis of nasal bones (80), superior or inferior maxilla (112), caries of cervical vertebra (304) so-called " strumous nodes " on vault of cranium (9). * Treves, 'Scrofula and its Gland Treatment,' p. 88.CHAPTER V ATFECTIONS OF THE NOSE 72. Depression or flattening of the bridge of the nose Depression of ,, n 1 Bridge of Isose. may result irom several causes. 1. It may follow a fracture with displacement of the nasal bones (76). 2. It is often found in children or adults, the subjects of congenital syphilis, the nasal bones being imperfectly developed, as a result of extension of inflammation during infancy from the mucous membrane lining the nasal fossse to the periosteum covering their internal surface (77). In these cases other symptoms, of con- genital syphilis will be usually present (60), and the child will have suffered from " snuffles" during early infancy. 3. It also not uncommonly appears in the later stages of acquired syphilis as the result of ulceration and de- sti-uctiou of the cartilaginous septum, vomer, nasal, or palate bones. 73. Expansion of the bridge of the nose due to dis- i;xp.,nsinn of placement of the nasal bones from pressure within the nasal cavity, producing the condition termed "frog's face," is generally due to the presence of a fibrous or malignant polypus (84). It is less commonly found in cases of mucous polypi (84). 74. Destruction of the nose may result from lupus Destruction of exedens, rodent ulcer, epithelioma, or syphilitic ulcera-52 KEGIONAL STJROEEY tion. In extreme cases the whole organ may be de- stroyed, a gaping chasm remaining, in which the remains of the septum and turbinated bones are plainly exposed to view. Hypertrophy of 74 0. Hypertrophy of Nose.—" Lipoma nasi" (cf. 40). LupuT "^5- '^^^ ^ favourite seat of Lupus exedens Syvhiiitic uicera- ^42^ 44.)^ Lupus erythematosus (42), and Syphilitic ulcer- Rodeiit Ulcer. ation (44). It is less commonly attacked with Rodent Epithelioma. ^^^^^ ^^^^ Epithelioma (44). The latter, when at- tacking the nose, usually commences at the nostril, just at the junction of the skin and mucous membrane. The former generally appears in the skin at a little distance from its junction with the mucous membrane. Fracture ot Nasal 76. Fracture of the Nttsal Bones is usually accompanied by some depression of the bridge of the nose, and in many cases considerable deformity results. 77. Coryza is the term applied to an excessive dis- charge of mucus or " running " from the nose. It may depend upon simple catarrhal inflammation of the Schneiderian mucous membrane, upon chronic thickening, upon strumous or syphilitic affections, or upon the presence of a polypus. Persistent coryza, or " snuffling," occurring in young infants, is one of the earhest symptoms of congenital syphilis. So long as the discharge is not accompanied by f oetor the term "coryza" is applied, but when it is at- tended by an offensive odour the term "ozoena" is employed. 78. Ozcena is the term apphed to a more or less thick, purulent discharge from the nostrils, attended by an offensive odour. It may depend upon various conditions, e.g. chronic catarrh of the Schneiderian mucotis membrane (83). Coryza. OzKiia.« AFFECTIONS OF THE NO^B Ulceration of the mucous membrane of tlie nose, simple, strumous, or syphilitic (79). Caries or necrosis of the nasal bones (80). Ulceration of the cartilage (92). The presence of foreign bodies (81), rhinolithes (82), polypi (84). Suppuration within the antrum, where the pus drains away through the opening into the nasal fossae (110). Idiopathic or constitutional. In some cases, with the exception of slight congestion and thickening of the mucous membrane, there is no apparent or assignable cause for the foul discharge, and it is then termed " idiopathic." 79. Ulceration of the Mucous Membrane lining the ulceration of J. Scliiii-iilerian nasal fossae may occur as one of the symptoms oi Membrane, struma or syphilis ; or it may be due to lupus ; or de- pendent on the presence of a foreign body; or follow one of the exanthemata. There is generally a purulent discharge from the nostril (ozsena), and if the interior of the nose be ex- amined with a speculum the mucous membrane will appear swollen, congested, and the seat of ulceration. 80. Necrosis of the Nasal Bones may occur as the result ^^^l^^l °^ ^^^^ of struma, syphilis or injury. It is usually accom- panied by a fetid, purulent discharge from the nostril (ozsena), and on examination with a probe, bare bone will probably be detected. 81. Foreign Bodies are not unfrequently passed into Foreign bodies in the nasal cavity in the case of children, and if allowed to remain often give rise to a foul discharge, exciting inflammation of the mucous membrane, ulceration, and even necrosis of the nasal bones. In all cases of ob- struction and discharge from the nostrils occurring in children, the possibility of the symptoms being due to54 REGIONAL STJEGEET the presence of a foreign body shotild "be borne in mind, especially if the affection is unilateral. RiMnoiitiies or 82. BMnoUthes or nasal calculi are sometimes found, Isasal Calculi. most commonly in the inferior meatus. In most cases they form round some foreign body, which serves as their nuclexis. Less commonly they form spontaneously, apparently as the result of some alteration in the nasal secretion, which leads to deposition of calculous matter. The symptoms they produce are very similar to those of a foreign body (81). ^'in'"'of m'ucous Chronic thiclcening of the Mucoits Membrane, more Meiuiiraiie. especially that covering the inferior turbinated bone, is not uncommon, especially in strumous children. The symptoms of this affection, viz. chronic discharge from the nostril, impairment of the sense of smell, and more or less obstruction to respiration, may render it very liable to be mistaken for a polypus (84); but on exami- nation with a speculum, the nature of the obstruction, due to general hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, which is more or less reddened, swollen, and covered with secretion, will be at once recognised, presenting, as it does, an appearance very different to that which is found in the case of polypus. Meningnreic of 83 a. In very rare instances a meningocele (2) may present itself on the roof of the nasal fossse. Polypi. . 84. The nasal fossse are not unfrequently the seat of abnormal growths of various kinds, to which the term polypus is applied. Three great varieties of polypi are described:—1. The mucous or gelatinous. 2. The fibrous, including fibrosarcoma and pure sarcomata. 3. The cancerous. 1. Mucous or The presence of the mucous or gelatinous polypus (the Gelatinous. ^^^^^^ ^^^^ commonly met with) is usually marked by a constant discharge from the nose, with more or lessAFl^ECTIONS OF THE NOSE 55 rnh/pi. obstruction to breathing, the patient being unable to blow through the affected nostril, and the voice acquiring a nasal intonation. On directing the patient to blow down the affected side the greyish, semi-translucent, glistening surface of the polypus can generally be distinguished, in many cases without the use of a speculum. In the following table the main points of distinction between the two first varieties, those most commonly met with, are laid down. Differential Diagnosis of Mucous or Gelatinous and Fibrous Polypi. Origin Structure Number Shape Colour Consistence Hemorrhage Discharge Mucous or Gelatinous. Mucous membrane cover- ing middle or inferior turbinated bones Myxomata or fibro-myxo- mata, often containing adenoid elements Usually multiple Pear-shaped, pendulous, and pedunculated, with a narrow base Greyish, semi-translucent and glistening Softish Not often present Constant thin mucoid dis- charge fibrous (including Sarco- mata). Periosteum of roof of nasal fossa, or base of skull behind the posterior nares; less frequently from the septum (93). Fibrous tissue, or im- perfectly formed fi- brous tissue mingled with sarcomatous ele- ments, or pure sar- comata. Usually single. Irregular,with a broad base, moulding itself to the cavity in which it is contained. More or less red, opaque, and fleshy. Firm and resistant. Frequently occurs; often a prominent symptom. More scanty and sa- nious, liable to be- come foul aud oza3nic, Diagnosis of Mu- cous and Fi- brous Polypi.REGIONAL SUEGERT Polypi Differential Diagnosis, Sfc.—continued. Influence of weather Progress Deformity Mucous or Gelatinous. " Hygrometric" in charac- ter; in dry, warm wea- ther they contract, and the symptoms are allevi- ated ; in damp weatlier they enlarge, and the symptoms are aggravated Slow and stationary Sometimes produced; less common than in fibrous. Slight expansion and flat- tening of nose may be present, and epiphora (224) from obstruction of the nasal duct Fibrous (including Sarco- mata). Undergo no change of volume with changes in weather. Tend to increase in size more or less ra- pidly. Often considerable from expansion of bridge of nose (73); epiphora (224) often present from pres- sure upon the nasal duct. May encroach on cavity of mouth depressing palate, or growing into antrum may expand it and produce prominence of the cheek or other deformity (cf. below, naso-pharyngeal and naso-orbital polypus) 2. Fibrous or In the preceding table the characteristic features of Sarcomatous. ,1 ^7 . 7 • i i • • the jiorous or sarcomatovs polypi nave been given; m many cases they are of an essentially malignant nature, as their removal is often impracticable ; or if removed, they speedily return, and eventually destroy life from pressure effects, either by interference with respiration and deglutition or from implication of the nervous centres. Several varieties of fibrous polypi are described c. g.:AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE 57 Polypi. Naso-pharyngeal — y^hen the polypus grows down- "•rfugtf"" wards and backwards into the pharynx, appearing behind and pushing forwards the soft palate, at the same time that it makes its way anteriorly into the nasal fossa. Naso-orlital—^hen penetrating the inner wall of the orbit, the growth makes its way into the interior of that cavity, and causes more or less displacement of the eye- ball, generally in a downward and outward direction. Sight will be more or less interfered with, and on ex- amining the interior of the nostril on the same side it will be found to be obstructed by the growth, which will be readily recognised. Carcinoma, usually of the encephaloid variety, may 3. cancerous, grow in the form of a polypus from the mucous mem- brane hning the nasal fossa; it is generally to be recog- nised by its very rapid growth, its extensive infiltra- tion of the adjacent cavities and structures, and the great deformity it produces ; it is usually accompanied by severe haemorrhage, and the growth often projects from the nostril as a fungating bleeding mass, the neighbouring lymphatic glands are involved at an early period of the disease, evidences of the cancerous cachexia soon appear, and life is speedily destroyed. 85. The other affections of the nasal cavity which are ^°"tj^g pof^i'^" liable to be mistaken for polypi are— Chronic thickening of the mucous membrane (83). Deviation of the septum to either side (89). Abscess (91), blood tumours (90), or other tumours (93) of the septum. Cartilaginous (86), or osseous tumours (87) of the nasal fossa. 86. JEnchondA'omata, or cartilaginous tumours, are EncUondroma. sometimes found in the interior of the nasal cavity,68 REaiONAL SUEGEET springing, as a general rule, from the septum, to which they are attached by a broad base. They are usually of slow growth, firm consistence, and often cause consider- able displacement of the septum. Osteoma. 87. Osteomata, or osseous growths, are very rarely found in the interior of the nose, springing either from its bony walls or invading it from without. In some cases they are found lying quite loose in the nasal fossa, like the exostoses, which are occasionally found detached in the antrum (108) and frontal sinus ChronicDiscl,ar.e ^^^^' from the Nos- 88. A chronic discharge from the nostril may be due to several causes. If purulent, it is termed ozsena (78). If thin and mucoid, it is probably due to the pre- sence of a polypus (84), or some morbid condition of the mucous membrane lining the nasal fossa (cf. Coiyza, 77). If perfectly clear and watery, presenting the reaction of cerebro-spinal fluid, and following the receipt of an injury to the head, it shows that a fracture has taken place through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, through the fissure in which the cerebro-spinal fluid constantly drains away. Under these circumstances it will probably have been preceded by a history or sym- ptoms of fracture through the anterior fossa of the base of the skull (38). In rare cases a constant and copious discharge of a clear, colourless, watery fluid, free from smell, and con- taining little or no albumen, is met with from the nostrils, the interior of which is, on examination, found to present a perfectly normal condition. The fluid, which at times may be so abundant as to flow in an almost continuous stream, is probably secreted by the lining membrane of the antrum or frontalAFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE 59 sinus, and is sometimes associated with the presence of a polypus, or with some morbid condition of the mucous membrane lining the interior of these cavities* (106, 61). 88 a. "Adenoid Vegetations in the Naso-pharyngeal Cavity" t is the term applied to little growths or vegeta- tions, which, though they may spring from any part of the mucous lining of the naso-pharynx with the excep- tion of the septum nasi, are most commonly found situated on its upper and posterior walls. The growths, which are often vascular and bleed readily on slight irritation, vary in size and shape, appearing either cristate, cylindrical, or flat and sessile. They appear to be due to simple hypertrophy of the glandular or adenoid tissue in this situation, and the condition is generally found associated with thickening and hypertrophy of the surrounding mucous membrane. If few in number and of small size, they may give rise to no symptoms whatever ; if exuberant and plenti- ful, blocking up more or less completely the nasal fossse, considerable impediment will be offered to respiration. The voice is altered, becoming thick and losing its resonance in the naso-pharynx. Hearing is often affected, owing to the Eustachian tubes being more or less obstructed by the presence of the growths about their orifices. In severe cases, owing to the fact that the patient is compelled to constantly breathe through the mouth, the nose after a time somewhat collapses, becoming thin and compressed. On digital examination of the naso-pharynx from the mouth the vegetations can often be felt as softish * Paget, ' Clinical Society's Transactions,' 1879. Spiers, ' Lancet,' 1881, vol. i, p. 369. t Meyer, ' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. liii.EE&IONAIi SUKGEET 60 * Richardson, ' Lancet,' 1882, vol. i, p. 397. Ajfections of Septum Nasi. 1. Deviation. 2. BloodTu- mour 3. Abscess. 4. Perforation and Destruc- tion. masses, sometimes "like a bunch of earthworms," hang- ing down from the roof of the pharynx, and more or less completely blocking up the posterior nares. 89. Deviation of the Septum to either side may occur as a congenital malformation or as a result of injury, causing more or less constriction of the corresponding nostril and consequent obstruction to respiration; on examination of the nostril the nature of the deformity, which in extreme cases might lead one to suspect the presence of a polypus, will at once be apparent. 90. Blood Tumours of the Septum generally occur as the result of injury, and are often accompa,nied by frac- ture of the septum. They may be confined to one or appear on both sides of the septum, and, if of con- siderable size, may offer considerable obstruction to breathing. 91. Ahscess of the Septum, acute or chronic, may re- sult from injury or form spontaneously ; it usually appears as a painful, more or less prominent, fluctuating swelling, causing obstruction to respiration, and being in many cases followed by perforation of the septum. The situation of the swelling and other symptoms will readily distinguish it from polypus, with which it may be confounded. 92. Perforation of the S'ep^Mm is not uncommon as the result of syphilitic ulceration of the mucous membrane covering it, or of abscess of the septum; more rarely it is found in strumous subjects, and in these cases it is sometimes due to lupus attacking the interior of the nose. Workmen exposed to the vapour of bichromate of potash are liable to a peculiar form of perforation of the septum, which in some cases leads to its complete destruction (' Bichromate Disease '*).AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE 61 jffectiom of Septum Nail. The presence of a perforation is sometimes indicated by an unpleasant whistling sound when the patient speaks, and on examination of the nostril, the opening in the septum will generally be apparent. 93. The septum is sometimes the seat of cartilagi- 5. Tumours, nous tumours (86), or of sarcomatous growths (cf. Polypi, 84).CHAPTEE VE AFFECTIONS OF LIPS Congenital 94, 1. Harelip is tliG term applied to a, consrenital Fissure. ^ '- , i j. ^ — jEssure or cleft through the upper lip, the result of an arrest of development. Simple or Single.—When the cleft is on one side only of the mesial line, corresponding with the line of union of the intermaxillary and superior maxillary bones, it is termed simple or single harelip. Double.—When the cleft is on each side of the middle line, it is termed double harelip. In these cases the nose is usually depressed and the nostrils widened, and between the two clefts a small projection is found, formed by the intermaxillary bones, which, remaining in a rudimentary condition, have failed to unite with the superior maxilla. In many cases harelip is associated with a cleft con- dition of the palate (150). i2. Median Pis- 2. Median Mssuve of Upper Lip.—In very rare in- sure of Upper g^^^^^gg ^l^£|. Qj^. £sgm-o maybe exactly in the middle line of the upper lip. The lip only may be involved, but more commonly this condition is associated with a complete cleft of the palate and absence of the inter- maxillary bones. 3. Fissure of 3. Congenital Memre, or Clefts of the Lower Lip, are Lnwer Lip. „ , , of extremely rare occurrence. Li'irand °^ 4. Macrostoma, or Congenital Fissure of the Lip and Cheek.AFFECTIONS OF LIPS 63 * Morgan, ' Lancet/ 1881, vol. ii, p. 289. Cheek*—In rare cases congenital fissures, involving the whole thickness of the cheek, are found extending from the angle of the mouth as far as the anterior border of the masseter muscle, or upwards towards the malar bone. At. times this condition is found associated with the presence of supernumerary auricles (328). 95. Ulceration of the Lip may be due to various Ulceration of Lip. causes, e.g.: 1. Simple, in connection with herpes labialis (96) ; fissure, or cracked lip (97); irritable and dyspeptic ulceration of the tongue and mucous lining of the cheeks (135); stomatitis (127). 2. Strumous.—'In strumous subjects, or in those suffering from a low state of health, superficial ulcera- tions and cracks or fissures, in many cases of a very irtractable character, are often found affecting both the upper and lower lips. 3. Syphilitic, in the form of a chancre or primary sore (98), or accompanying the superficial form of syphilitic ulceration of the tongue and mucous lining of the cheeks (135). 4. Cancerous, in the form of epithelioma (99). 96. Herpes labialis is characterised by an eruption of B-erpea kbiaiis. small vesicles, which soon dry up and form a crust or scab, or bursting, leave a superficial ulceration. This condition is often found in connection with slight catarrh, or accompanying an attack of pneumonia. 97. Fissure of the Lip, or "Cracked lip," is of ten rissure of Lip- found as the result of exposure to cold. The crack is " ^^^'=''^'1 i^'p- usually situated near the centre of the lower lip, in- volving only its mucous surface, being attended by much pain, and readily bleeding if its edges are acci- deatally separated from each other.EEGIONAL STTEQEET Chancre. o. Hard or In- 98. a. Sard Chancres, or primary syptilitic sores, fectmg. sometimes met with on the lips, usually the lower one, as the result of the direct inoculation of some accidental crack or fissure with the syphilitic virus. In some cases, it shows itself as a fissure with indu- rated margins and base; in other cases, the whole thick- ness of the lip may be affected, being converted into a mass of indurated tissue with an ulcerated surface, which is usually somewhat smooth, and discha,rges a scanty secretion. In many cases, the lip is protruded and somewhat everted, so that the patient is unable to completely close the mouth. The diagnosis of the affection, which is sometimes mistaken for epithelioma (99), can usually be made by attention to the following points:—In chancre, the affection is usually found at an earlier period of life, and most commonly in the female sex. The surface of the sore is generally flattened, and much less warty and irregular than is the case in epithelioma. The cutaneous border of the lip is oftener involved than the mucous surface, as in epithelioma. The indiu-ation at its base, if present, is not so marked and much more limited in extent. The submaxillary glands are usually affected at the time the case comes under observation, being involved at a much earlier stage of the disease (usually within three weeks) than is the case in epithelioma. If the case has been in progress for some weeks, secondary symptoms, e. g. rash and soi'e throat, will have usually made their appearance. Under specific treatment the sore will generally rapidly heal. t. Snft or Non- &• Much moro rarely, as the result generally of auto- infecting, inoculation, from careless habits, want of cleanliness, &c., the lips are affected with the sqfl or non-infecting chancre. In this variety, the ulceration, which is of anAFFECTIONS OF LfPS 65 irregular and superficial nature, tends to spread along the mucous aspect of the lip, and there may be more than a single sore. At the same time, there is a more abundant purulent discharge from its surface and an absence of induration about its base, points which distinguish it from the hard chancre just de- scribed. 99. The lower lip is a favourite seat of epithelioma, Epithelioma, the general characteristics of which are described in Table, p. 34. When the disease has existed some time, the sub- maxillary lymphatic glands will generally be found enlarged and indurated. This affection, which is often due to some local cause of irritation, e.g. a rough or carious tooth, smoking a clay pipe, &c., is much more common in males than females, and is rarely met with before middle life, usually after forty years of age. 100. Mucous Cysts, due to obstruction of the mucous Mucous Cysts, glands, are sometimes found near the inner surface of the lower lip, appearing as small, rounded, painless tumours, often semi-translucent, and situated just beneath the mucous membrane. They are usually single, containing in their interior a viscid mucoid fluid. 101. The lip is not uncommonly the seat of vascular Nseri. tumours, either of an arterial, venous, or capillary variety (4), 102. In strumous subjects, thickening or hypertrophy Hypertrophy of the lips, more especially of the upper one, is often lVi)."'""* seen. In some cases this condition is produced as the result of chronic inflammatory changes in the parts, dependent upon the presence and constant irritation of fissures, cracks, or superficial ulcerations (95). 566 BEGIONAL SUEGEET Eversion follow- 102 a. Eversion and dragging down of the lower lip ing Burns. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ cicatrisation takes place in the case of burns affecting the neck and lower part of the face (277 a).CHAPTEE Vn AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 103. Tumours of the Upper Jaw may be simple or Tumours of Upper malignant, cystic or solid, and they may spring from — the surface of or from behind the superior maxilla, or from the interior of the antrum. Cystic Tumours may be either innocent or malignant, the simple tumours appearing in the form of dentigerous cysts and hydrops antri, the malignant in the form of cystic sarcoma and carcinoma, where cysts are de- veloped in the substance of a tumour which is in itself of a malignant nature. Solid Tumours may likewise be divided into innocent and malignant. The innocent appearing as fibrous or fibroid, osseous, or cartilaginous growths. The malignant appearing as sarcomata or carcino- mata, both of these varieties often containing cysts in their interior. The diagnostic signs of a tumour connected with the Diagnosis, superior maxilla are as follows : When springing from the interior of the Antrum the a. Origin, orbital, nasal, palatal, or buccal walls of this cavity will be expanded according as the tumour grows upwards into the orbit, inwards into the nostrils, downwards into the mouth, or forwards upon the cheek, causing a pro- minence of one side of the face. In many instances a68 REGIONAL SUE.GEET Tiiiiiours of Upper — tumour of the antrum grows simultaneously in all these directions, producing exophthalmos, obstruction of nostril, prominence of the cheek, and bulging of the roof of the mouth. When springing from the anterior s^irface of the Superior Maxilla, it causes a projection of the cheek, dipping down between the gums and the soft structures of the face. As the tumour increases in size it may grow backwards into the interior of the antrum, and thus secondarily implicate that cavity. When springing from behind the Superior Maxilla, the upper jaw will at first be pushed bodily forwards, but as the antrum becomes secondarily involved any of the walls of this cavity may subsequently become ex- panded and rendered prominent. 13. Simple or A Simple Tumour is characterised by its slower Malignant. gj.Q^th, its firmer consistence (except when cystic), its more regular and rounded outline, and by the non- implication of the neighbouring lymphatic glands and the skin covering it. A Malignant Tumour is characterised by its more rapid growth, its softer and more elastic consistence, its ill-defined outline, its tendency to infiltrate the skin and project as a fiingating mass, and, in the case of carci- noma, its implication of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood of the jaw. y. Cystic or Cystic are distinguished from solid tumours by the semi-elastic and even fluctuating character of the swell- ing, and by the presence in some cases of a distinct egg-shell or parchment-like crackling on palpation, due to extreme thinning by absorption of the bone covering them. 104. Hijdrops Antri or Bropsy of the Antrum—k slowly forming, painless dilatation of the cavity of 1. Simple.AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 69 the antrum, characterised by expansion of its walls, so that the cheek is rendered round and prominent, and. the floor of the orbit, roof of the mouth, and nasal cavity are all more or less encroached upon, semi-elastic to the touch, and when the expansion is extreme, giving rise to the sensation of egg-shell crackling upon pres- sure, is hydrops antri or dropsy of the antrum, a condition which was fonnerly looked upon as due to obstruction of the aperture leading from the antrum to the nostril and consequent retention of secretion, but which is now known to be dependent upon a cystic degeneration of the glandular follicles of the mucous lining of the antrum, the contents of the cysts con- sisting, not of true mucus, but of a glairy mucoid or a thin brownish serous fluid. 105. Dentigerous Cyst.—A cystic tumour with smooth outline, painless, and of slow growth, occasionally reaching a considerable size, and then characterised by egg-shell crackling on pressure, is a dentigerous cyst, due to the irritation of some tooth, usually a permanent one, which has been misplaced or ill-developed. An important symptom in the diagnosis of this aftection is the absence from the mouth of some tooth or teeth, which have not appeared or which have never been extracted. 106. Fibrous Tumours not uncommonly spring fi"om the antrum or body of the jaw, independent of any connections with the gums (cf. Epulis, 162), and are characterised by their slow growth, regular outline, and uniform firm consistence. Small polypoid growths, not unlike those found in the nasal fossa (84), occasionally spring from the mucous lining of the antrum ; in some cases the only symptom marking their presence is the discharge of a clear fluid from the nostril (88). Tumours of Upper Jaw. a. Cystic. Hydrops Antri or Dropsy of Antrum. Dentigerous Cysts. /3. Solid. Fibroma.Tumours of Vj)per Jaw. Encliondroina. 70 REGIONAL SUEGEET Oateoma. 2. Malignant. Sarcoma. Carcinoma. 107. Encho7idromata, or tumours, consisting of a mixture of fibrous tissue and cartilage, are sometimes met witli, and may attain a large size; their rate of growth, is very variable, in some cases rapid, in others very slow. When running a rapid course, reach- ing a large size, these tumours are essentially of a malignant nature. 108. Exostoses are also met with, usually of the ivory variety ; they are sometimes found lying loose in the cavity of the antrum, owing to their having undergone fracture or spontaneous separation at their base of attachment. In rare instances ,the upper jaw becomes the seat of the diffused osteoma, a large, irregular, lobulated mass of osseous tissue, springing from the superior maxilla, and often involving the neighbouring cavities and other bones of the face ; great deformity is pro- duced by this condition, which in some cases appears to be a general hypertrophy of the bones of the face, those of the cranium being at times also similarly affected (cf. Leontiasis, 33 c). 109. The malignant forms of tumour met with in the upper jaw are usually either sarcomata or carcino- mata, the former being most common, and often con- taining cysts in their interior. Carcinomatous tumours are usually of the encephaloid variety, and though generally described as " cancer of the upper jaw," the bone itself is only secondarily in- volved, the original seat of the disease being, as a rule, the mucous membrane lining the nasal fossa or antrum, whence it extends, usually expanding the antrum and manifesting itself as an enlargement of the superior maxilla. The "diffused osteoma" above described is essen-AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 71 tially of a malignant nature, as in many cases life is eventually destroyed from mechanical interference with deglutition, pressure upon tlie brain, or some other com- plication. 110. Suppuration may occur in the interior of the ^n- antrum as the result of some local injury, or in conse- quence of irritation set up by the fang of a carious tooth (bicuspid or molar) ; in other cases it may be associated with necrosis of its walls, or be due to the irritation caused by retained secretion. The symptoms are very similar to those of dropsy of the antrum (104), but are distinguished from that affection by being accompanied by evident signs of inflammatory action, viz. local heat and tenderness with throbbing pain. Any of the walls of the cavity may be expanded, and when the distension is extreme, egg-shell crackling on pressure is often present; or the pus, as it forms, may drain away through the socket of a tooth into the mouth, or discharge into the nose through the commu- nication with the middle fossa. In other perfo- rating the anterior wall of the antrum, it may burst externally through the cheek, or, opening beneath the cheek, may discharge between it and the gum into the mouth, 111. Abscess about the gums is very common as the Alveolar Abscess ... ^ • ^ Gum-boil. result of irritation set up by carious teeth; as suppura- tion takes place around the fang of the tooth, the bony walls of the alveolus become gradually expanded and absorbed, and the pus, as soon as it has formed, tends to make its way externally, either discharging at the free margin of the gum round the neck of the tooth, or perforating the gum at a point corresponding to the fang of the tooth involved. In other cases, the pus burrowing for some distance between the bone and72 REGIONAL SURGERY periosteum, or in the soft tissues after it has made its way through the periosteum, may find an exit on the surface of the cheek, and a fistulous opening may result, very similar to that which is often found in connection with necrosis of the jaw, the diseased tooth acting like a sequestrum, and preventing the sinus (at the bottom of which it can oftenbe felt with a probe) from closing. The formation of an alveolar abscess is usually attended by considerable pain and tenderness on pressure, and the swelling which results is of an elastic and fluctuating character, in some cases localised and confined to the alveolar margin of the jaw, in others widely spread and accompanied by considerable fulness of the cheek. Necrosis 112. Necrosis of the jaw is a common result of peri- ostitis (118) from any cause ; it may occur as a result of injury, e. g. fracture ; it may follow one of the erup- tive fevers, or be caused by the exposure to the fumes of phosphorus in persons engaged in lucifer match factories; in other cases it may be due to scrofula, syphilis, or salivation by mercury, and it may also occur in apparently healthy subjects without any assignable cause. The necrosis, which may attack either the body or alveolar margin of the jaw, is generally preceded by more or less pain and swelling in the affected part, and sinuses are usually present leading down to bare bone, and opening either externally upon the cheek, chin, or beneath the margin of the jaw, or internally into the mouth, and discharging a fetid pus which poisons the breath. In phosphorus necrosis, which more commonly attacks the lower jaw, and is caused by the acid fumes gaining access to the bone through the sockets of carious teeth, the sequestrum, which is always slow in separat-AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 73 ing, is generally surrouBded by a large mass of spongy bone poured out by tbe neighbouring periosteum. The necrosis which follows the eruptive fevers (scarlet fever, measles, &c.) is probably due to a similar cause, viz. the access of a specific poison to the bone through the sockets of the teeth; it is generally limited to the alveolar margin, the body of the jaw as a rule escaping. 113. Fracture of the upper jaw may involve either ^^j^^^™-^ of Upper the body or alveolar margin and hard palate ; the injury is often complicated with laceration of the face, and when the alveolus is involved, there will be loosening and more or less displacement of the teeth. When the anterior wall of the antrum is driven in, considerable deformity may remain, owing to the difiiculty of replac- ing the depressed fragments, and emphysema (68) is often present. 114. Enlargement or Expansion of the Lower Jaw may ^ ^xpSn' of be due to— the Lo« er Jaw. 1. New growths, e. g. different forms of tumours (115). 2. Simple Inflammatory Affections, e.g.: a. Acute periostitis (118). ^. Chronic periostitis (118). y. Necrosis of the body of the jaw, where the seques- tmm or dead portion of bone is surrounded by a greatly thickened case of new bone (112). 8. Alveolar abscess, in connection with carious teeth, when the pus, not finding an outlet, burrows between the bone and periosteum, or forms a diffused swelling beneath the tissues of the gum (111). c. Excessive formation of callus after fracture, in cases where the fragments have not been kept at rest (120).Tumours of Lower REGIONAL STTEGEET Jaw. 115. The tumours met with in connection with the lower jaw are very similar to those occurring in the superior maxilla (103). Sarcomata springing from the periosteum, or having their origin in the interior of the bone, are not uncom- mon, and are in many cases of an especially malignant nature. They are more or less elastic in their con- sistence, often containing cysts in their interior, and may rapidly attain a large size, involving the skin, bulging forwards the chin, pushing up the tongue, or growing downwards beneath the floor of the mouth. The various forms of e;pulis (162), dentigerous cysts (105), fihrous and fihro-cystic tumours, and more rarely osseous and encliondromatous growths, are also met with, all of which present characteristics very similar to those which are found in the case of similar growths affecting the upper jaw (106—108). Fibro-cystic Tumours.—The lower jaw is a favourite seat of the so-called "jfibro-cystic tumour," which may attain an immense size. It is, in some cases, the result of irritation set up by imperfectly-developed and mis- placed teeth, and consists of a number of cysts, whose walls are usually formed partly of bone and partly of fibrous tissue, and which contain a clearish fluid in their interior. The nature of the growth, which, unless it contains sarcomatous elements mingled with the fibrous tissue, is essentially of a simple character, is rendered evident on exploratory puncture, and in many cases a feeling of crackling, due to extreme thinning of the bone by absorption, can be obtained on pressure over the most prominent portion of the swelling. Closure of the 116. Closure of the Jaw, or inability to open the mouth, may be due to —AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 75 1. Anchylosis of the Temporo-maxillary Joint, the result of etiroiiic rheumatic arthritis, or other disease affect- ing the articulation (117). 2. Cicatricial Contraction of the Soft Structures either within or without the mouth, following extensive injuries, burns, cancrum oris, lupoid, or other forms of ulcera- tion. 3. Spasmodic Contraction of the Muscles of the Jaw, due to reflex irritation, as in the case of carious or imperfectly-developed teeth; under this head may- be included trismus or lock-jaw, one of the earliest symptoms of tetanus. 4. Inflammatory Affections in the neighbourhood of the Jaw, e.g. mumps (64), parotid abscess (66), alveolar abscess (111), &c. 117. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis is usually met with Diseases of Tem- poro-maxillary in persons somewhat advanced m life, and is character- ised by enlargement of the condyle of the jaw, with crepitation on movement, and stiffness and inability to completely open the mouth. The pain, which is usually present, is of a dull, aching kind, worse at night, and influenced by the state of the weather. If absorption of the articular eminence takes place, considerable de- formity may be produced, owing to displacement of the jaw by muscular action. In other cases, without any affection of the articular surfaces, complete closure of the jaw may be produced as the result of fibrous anchylosis from thickening and contraction of the ligamentous structures about the joint. This affection, which is sometimes met with in young people who have suffered from acute or subacute rheu- matism, develops itself much more rapidly than the preceding condition. Joint. 1. Chronic Rlieumatic Arthritis. Rheumatic Anchylosis.Diseases of Tem- poro-maxillary Joint. 76 EEGIONAL SUEGEEY As the result of disease commencing in the synovial ^'^"umtis!^^^ membrane, condyloid process, or glenoid cavity, erosion of the cartilages, with destruction of the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and absorption of the articular surfaces entering into the formation of the joint, may be pro- duced. If suppuration occurs, more or less disorganisation of the articulation will ensue, and sinuses will be often found in the neighbourhood of the joint discharging pus, and leading down to dead and exposed bone. This condition is sometimes met with in children as the sequel of one of the exanthemata, or it may show itself in the course of a case of pyaemia. When occurring in young children, a movable jaw by the formation of a new joint sometimes results, but in the majority of cases anchylosis more or less complete will be produced. 118. As the result of external injury, neglected frac- ture, or other causes, acute periostitis may be produced. This will manifest itself as a hot and jjainful swelling, deeply situated, and connected with the body of the jaw, and accompanied by more or less redness and oedema of the soft structures covering it. If suppura- tion (periosteal abscess) occurs between the periosteum and the bone, fluctuation will be detected, and after evacuating the pus a probe will probably come into contact with bare bone, and necrosis of its superficial portion may result in consequence of its being denuded of its periosteal covering. In the chronic form the symptoms are much less evident and severe: there is more or less enlargement of the body of the jaw, not distinctly circumscribed, and attended by pain of a dull aching character, aggravated at intervals, and especially worse at night. Periostitis of Lower Jaw. Acute. Chronic.a. Bilateral. h. Unilateral. AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS Dislocation of Lower Jaw. 119. Dislocation may involve only one or both of the condyles, i.e. it may be unilateral or bilateral. If bilateral the moutb is widely open, and cannot be closed, tbe chin projects, there is a hollow in front of the ear on either side where the condyle should be, and an undue prominence above the zygoma in the temporal fossa, caused by the displaced coronoid process. Speech is impaired, deglutition is interfered with, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. If unilateral there is a marked depression in front of the ear on the affected side, and the chin is displaced in the opposite direction. The other symptoms are present, though in a less degree. 120. Fractures of the Lower Jaw are generally com- -^^^^'J^* pound, sometimes from external wound, but more fre- — quently from laceration of the tissues of the gum by the broken fragments. Any part of the bone may be broken, e.g. the neck, angle, ramus, or coronoid process, but the most frequent situation is through the body, at that spot where it is specially weakened by the mental foramen and the deep socket for the canine tooth. Fracture through the Body.—The symptoms of frac- a. Body, ture are usually well marked, especially when, as is often the case, the fracture is double {i. e. on both sides of the symphysis), for the central portion is then drawn down by the muscles attached to the hyoid bone. There is considerable mobility of the fragments with crepitus, irregularity in the line of the teeth, dribbling of saliva from the mouth, impairment of speech, and if, as is often the case, the fracture is compound, laceration of the gums. Fracture through the Angle or Lower part of the Ramus. *• ^JJ^]^ ^Vixui —In this case the displacement is not usually great, owing to the muscles on either side (masseter andFractures of Lower REGIONAL SgEGEET JaxB. internal pterygoids) keeping the fragments in po- sition. c. Neck. Fracture through the JSfecJc.—The condyle is displaced, being drawn inwards and forwards by the external pterygoid. Crepitus is produced and pain is experienced upon attempting to open the mouth. d. Coronoid Fracture through Coronoid Process.—The fractured process. coronoid process is drawn upwards and backwards by the temporal muscle, forming an undue prominence in the temporal fossa, ^"the'eienoir"'' l^l. Fracture of the Glenoid Cavity may be produced Cavity. owing to the condyle of the lower jaw being forcibly driven into it, and in rare instances the condyle may be driven through the fossa, so as to project into the cavity of the cranium and press upon the base of the brain. Alteration in 122. Alteration in Shape of the Lower Jaw may be due Shape of Lower , , Jaw. to several causes : 1. Con^nitai. Gongenital.—Imperfect development, or absence more or less complete, of the lower jaw is sometimes seen. In many cases it is associated with some other congenital deformity, e.g. with the presence of branchial fistulae (276), malformations of the ear, supernumerary auricular appendages (328), macrostoma (94), &c. 2. From Dis- 2, From Disease. — Tumours of the upper jaw, growths within the mouth, hypertrophy of the tongue, cicatricial contraction after extensive injuries or ulcera- tion about the lower part of the face, &c., may all from simple mechanical causes (e.g. pressure, di-agging, &c.) produce considerable alteration in the shape of the lower jaw. 3. lu Rickets. 3. In Bichets the inferior maxilla and bones of the face generally are often retarded in their growth. At the same time, the shape of the lower jaw is often some-AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS 79 ,. . Alteration in Shape of Lower what altered; it becomes polygonal instead of arched, •^««'- and the direction of its alveolar process is changed becoming inclined inwards. 4. In Old Age, after the loss of the teeth, the alveolar 4:. in oid Age. process of the body of the jaw becomes absorbed, its basilar portion alone remaining. At the same time, the rami become oblique in direction, forming an obtuse, instead of a right angle with the body.CHAPTEE VIII AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH ^yphfus"''^ 123. Children, or young adults, the subjects of con- genital syphilis, often present a peculiar malformation of the permanent teeth, most marked in the incisors, especially the central ones of the upper jaw, the shape, size, and direction of which are in many cases consider- ably altered. In typical cases, the central upper incisors present a vertical notch, usually of crescentic shape, on their cutting edge; their lateral borders are bounded by curved outlines, the convexities of which look outwards, and their cutting edge is narrower than their neck, just the reverse of what is found in the normal state.* At * The characteristic notch present on the cutting edge of the central upper incisors in congenital syphilis must not be confounded with the notches or serrations often normally present in the teeth of young subjects, which vary in number and degree. Not un- commonly, the central upper incisors show three little projections or denticles, separated by two little notches (or there may be four projections and three notches). The lateral incisors, on the other hand, often present " a single central notch, one which, if it occurred in the central incisors, might easily lead to the suspicion of syphilis." « The malformation peculiar to syphilis is caused by the non- development of the central denticle in the three-toothed upper central incisor; this leaves a gap in the middle and allows the lateral denticles to fall together, thus producing the characteristic shape." (Hutchinson, ' Clinical Lectures," plate 43.)AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH 81 the same time they are usually somewhat dwarfed or di- minished in size, and their direction is altered, so that they often converge towards or diverge from each other. The other incisors are usually similarly deformed, though to a much less extent, as also the canines, which are often somewhat peg-shaped, and may present a notch on their cutting border ; in many cases they are separated from one another by wide gaps. At the same time, owing to deficiency of enamel, the teeth are soft and of a bad colour, readily wearing away; on this account the characteristic malformation disappears after many years of wear, being, as a rule, only to be recognised between the ages of eight and twenty-five or thirty years. In some cases the cutting edge, which is usually much thinned, presents a number of small spines bounded above by a crescentic line (" serrated teeth "), or two notches with a central projection (" peg-top teeth ") ; these two conditions are usually an early stage in the formation of that above described, for, after a time, the little spines or projections will wear away or break off, leaving as the result a single crescentic notch on the cutting border of the tooth. These malformations of the teeth (which it must be borne in mind are not necessarily present in the subjects of congenital syphilis) are the indirect result of stoma- titis (127) during infancy, which, involving the perios- teum of the gums and lining membrane of the dental follicles, interferes with the nutrition and development of the tooth just at the period when dentification is taking place. 124. As the result of the administration of mercury Mercurial, Rocky, during infancy for convulsions, congenital syphilis, or cSmbed'TeetL. other causes, or probably as the result in some cases of simple disturbance of health accompanied by stomatitis 6REGIONAL STJRGEBY 82 the permanent teeth often exhibit a defective develop- ment of enamel; as a result of this, erosion of the ex- posed dentine readily takes place, and the crown of the tooth presents in consequence an irregular, rugged, discoloured appearance, its surface being pitted and often marked with horizontal groovings; at. the same time the cutting edge is often unusually sharp, owing to the thinness of its covering of enamel. The incisors, canines, and first molars in particular, are usually affected in this manner, the biscuspids and second and third molars, which are developed at a later period (when the causes that arrest the enamel forma- tion are not in action), as a rule altogether escaping. This condition of the teeth must not be confounded with that present in congenital syphilis, consisting, as it does, not so much in alteration of the shape of the teeth as in defective development of enamel; the two conditions are not, however, uncommonly combined, that is to say, a typical syphilitic tooth may present a rocky or honeycombed condition of its crown as the result simply of imperfect development of its covering of enamel. I Rickets 125- Bickets, Struma, or in any condition which is Struma.' associated with defective or depressed nutrition during infancy, when dentition is taking place, the proper development of the teeth is interfered with; hence both temporary and permanent teeth are cut late, they are deficient in enamel, and often present a rocky or pitted appearance, or are marked with transverse lines. The permanent incisors, which may be large, white, and well formed, are often thin and brittle, and their cutting edge is not unfrequently notched and serrated; the teeth generally soon become carious, readily crum- bling and wearing away.* Hutchinson, ' Clinical Lectures,' plate 43. 83 AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH 126. In tlie so-called " craggy teeth " the enamel on " Craggy Teetii." the lower halves of the crowns of the tipper incisors and canines, or the upper halves of the crowns of the lower incisors and canines, " is absent, and its deficiency is bounded by an abrupt transverse line which deeply grooves the tooth. The denuded part of the tooth shows strong ridges, and is by no means in the soft, pitted, and crumbling condition often seen in the teeth of stomatitis." " I believe that a tendency to the ' craggy teeth' is sometimes a matter of family inheritance, and they may sometimes probably be produced by mercury. They are to be carefully distinguished from those of syphilis." *CHAPTEE IX stomatitis. 1. Simple. 3. Aplithous. 3. Thrush. AFFECTIONS OF THE MOTJTH 127. Stomatitis, or inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the interior of the mouth and gums, is not at all uncommon, especially in young children, and may appear under various forms. In the simple form, small, bright, red patches appear on the inside of the cheeks, on the gums, or at the ano-les of the lips, which, increasing in size and coalesc- ing with one another, may gradually involve the whole of the interior of the mouth. There is more or less swelling of the affected part, with increased secretion ot mucus, and superficial erosions or distinct ulcerations are often produced, giving rise to the ulcerative form ot stomatitis. . There is generally some derangement of the digestive organs, viz. furred tongue, foul breath, loss of appetite, and a disturbed condition of the bowels, this condition being in the majority of cases the result of improper ^'in the aphthous or croupous form, small whitish spots, surrounded by more or less redness, appear m different parts, often in considerable numbers, and these eventually becoming confluent may become the seat of superficial ulceration. . , • -i • j 4- In the parasitic variety, or "thrush;' which is due to the presence of a parasitic fungus-Oidmm albicans,StomatUis. AFFECTIONS OF THE MOTTTH 85 whitish spots, consisting of epithelial cells mingled with the sporales and filaments of the fungus, appear on reddened patches, presenting an appearance not unlike that of curdled milk. In children, the subjects of congenital syphilis, the mucous membrane of the mouth is very subject to attacks of inflammation, coming on shortly after birth, following closely or accompanying the inflammation of the interior of the nose, which gives rise to the character- istic " snufBes " (77). The gangrenous form of stomatitis or " cancrum oris is described (53). The mercurial form of stomatitis is described (164). 128. The mucous membrane of the cheeks may be the seat of psoriasis (133) ; ichthyosis (134); mucous tubercles (139); syphilitic ulceration, superficial or deep (135), or epithelioma (135); and in each instance the appearance will closely resemble that which is found when the tongue is similarly affected with the same disease. Simple ulceration, affecting the mucous lining of the cheeks and angles of the mouth, usually of a superficial nature, is often found in association with the irritable (135), or dyspeptic (135) ulceration of the tongue, <5r in consequence of salivation by mercury (164) ; in young children it is often produced as the result of the dif- ferent forms of stomatitis (127). 129. A Banula, or Sublingual Cyst, is a cystic tumour found on the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue, the result generally of dilatation of one of the sublingual ducts or mucous follicles present in this situation. It usually appears as a semi-transparent, fluctuating, globular swelling, the size of a walnut or small egg, often considerably displacing the tongue, and containing 4. Syphilitic. " 5. Ganarenous. 6. Mercurial. Affections of Mucous Liniuf) of Cheeks. 1. Psoriasis. 2. Ichthyosis. 3 Mucous Tu- bercle. 4. Syphilitic Ulceration. 5. Epithelioma. 6. Simple Ul- ceration. Banula.86 EEGIONAL SUEaEEY in its interior a thin glairy fluid, but not true saliva ; in many instances Wharton's duct may be traced running along its external surface, showing that the tumour is not connected with or due to obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland (in exceptional cases, however, as the result of obstruction from some cause, e. g. a calculous concretion (131), dilatation of the duct may be produced, and under these circumstances the contents of the cyst would consist of saliva). When of large size the swelling may be perceptible externally beneath the jaw, and fluctuation may then be obtained between the neck and the interior of the mouth. Sublingual Seba- 130. Encvsted TumouTs, oftcn congenital and of the ceous Cyst. . j. -j.! i • nature of sebaceous cysts, are sometimes met with, lymg upon the mylo-myoid muscle and situated more deeply in the floor of the mouth than the ranula or simple sublingual cyst (129). They project at the upper part of the neck beneath the jaw rather than on the floor of the mouth, often forming prominent tumours the size of an orange, and containing in their interior, not a thin glairy fluid, but cheesy sebaceous matter. Salivary Calculi. 131. Salivary CalcuU not uncommonly form in the ducts of the sublingual or submaxillary glands, giving rise to the presence of a hard swelling on the floor of the mouth, usually in the neighbourhood of the fraenum linguae. If the obstruction is complete, causing reten- tion of the salivary secretion, the corresponding gland will be more or less swollen and painful, and in excep- tional cases it may become the seat of suppuration and abscess.CHAPTEE X AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 132 As the result of clironic inflammatory changes ciironic Super- ficial Glossitis. affecting the superficial structure of the tongue, obhtera- " Smooth tion of the papillae and extreme thinning of their epithelial covering is produced, and in consequence of this its surface presents in places a smooth and glossy appear- ance. The patches are generally of an oblong or oval shape, and of a raw-looking or deep-red colour. The tongue itself is often somewhat enlarged and swollen, and at the same time not uncommonly affected with superficial ulceration. In many cases this condition is associated with constitutional syphilis, and, like ichthyosis (134), it is not unfrequently found to precede or accompany epithelioma. 133. Circumscribed patches of a white, opaque Psoriasis linguw. appearance, due to accumulation and matting together of the epithelium, which is from time to time detached and shed, leaving the exposed surface raw and of a deep-red colour, are present in Psoriasis linguee, a con- dition often associated with constitutional syphilis, hut not uncommonly occurring in connection with dyspepsia, or some cause of local irritation. 134. In this affection the epithelial and papillary ichtiiyosis elements of the tongue are much hypertrophied and ''"^"** thickened, as a result of which its surface is covered with white patches, varying in extent, thickness, andEEGIONAL SUEGEET 88 consistence. The papillae, immensely hypertrophied and overloaded with epithelium, may retain their separate form, or they may be welded together and covered over with a layer of thickened epithelium, which completely conceals them from view, the patches, which are often almost of cartilaginous consistence, then assuming a somewhat smooth appearance. Ichthyosis linguae may present itself under three different forms, viz.: 1. Whitish patches, varying in extent, presenting a smooth surface of cartilaginous or almost horny con- sistence. In some cases the patches are broken up into quadrilateral spaces by slight fissures, which intercross each other. 2. Diffused patches, consisting of filiform papillae, immensely hypertrophied (in some cases a quarter of an inch or more in length), but still retaining their sepa- rate form. 3. In cases where the ichthyotic patches are single, circumscribed, and limited in extent, approaching more in character the warty growths so often seen on the skin, they are often described as " papillomata of the tongue," and, in fact, the ordinary form of the disease itself might be well described as a diffused papilloma- tous condition of the surface of the tongue. This affection is in rare cases congenital. More commonly it is found associated with syphilis, or some cause of local irritation, e.g. smoking, rough or carious teeth, &c. The ichthyotic patches may remain in a stationary condition for many years, or they may slowly extend, causing very little pain or inconvenience. In other in- stances they may ulcerate, and not at all uncommonly they eventually develop into epithelioma, so that weAFFECTIONS OF THE TONGTJE 89 sometimes find the same tongue presenting distinct evidences of both ichthyosis and epitheliomatons ulcera- tion. In some cases the surface of the gums or the mucous lining of the cheeks are similarly affected at the same time, and this condition may appear independently in either of these situations. 136. Ulceration of the Tongue may be due to some cause of local irritation, or it may be associated with chronic dyspepsia, or be of a syphilitic or a cancerous (epitheliomatous) nature. Irritable Ulcers are generally caused by the irritation of rough or carious teeth, and in many cases the lips (96) and interior of the cheeks (128) are similarly affected at the same time. The ulcers, which are often multiple, are found chiefly on the margin and tip of the tongue or on the folds of the frsenum, and they are generally very painfiil, interfering with speech and mastication. They are distinguished from epithelioma by their superficial nature, by the fact that they are generally multiple, and by the absence of much or any induration about their base. Dyspeptic Ulcers are usually situated on the dorsum in the middle Hne, and often originate in psoriasis (133), so that evidence of that affection is often present along with them. They generally arise without any cause of local irritation, and the patient has usually suffered for some time from dyspepsia. This condition is diagnosed from epithelioma, which affection it resembles more closely than the preceding, by the fact that the ulcers, which are not unfrequently multiple, are usually situated at the middle of the tongue (an unusual situation for epithelioma), and not at its margins, by the absence of much induration of,. 90 REGIONAL SURGERY Ulceration. their hase, edges, and surrounding tissues, by the con- dition of the tongue, which is often affected with psoriasis, and presents symptoms of derangement of the digestive organs, and by a history of chronic dyspepsia. s. Syphilitic. Syphilitic TJlceration may occur in either the early or late stages of the constitutional affection, assuming either a superficial or a deep form. Secondary or Superficial Ulceration usually appears in the form of fissures or cracks, though in some cases superficial ulcers of round, oval, or irregular shape are also found. These are generally multiple, occurring at the anterior part of the tongue, especially on the tip, sides, and under surface, and they are often accom- panied by similar ulcerations upon the insides of the cheeks and at the angles of the mouth. The ulcers are generally of a painful nature, and after they have healed leave behind them smooth, shining cicatrices and milk-white scars. The tongue is at the same time often affected in other places with patches of psoriasis (133), or chronic superficial glossitis (132). Tertiary or Beep Ulceration is generally the result of the softening and breaking down of a gumma (141) which has formed in the substance or on the surface of the tongue. It is generally situated in the median line in the neighbourhood of the fibrous raphe, and usually on the middle or posterior surface of the dorsum. For the diagnosis from epithelioma (cf. 136). 4. Cancerous. Cancerous Ulceration.—Epithelioma is the only variety of carcinoma tha.t attacks the tongue. It in most cases first appears as a small nodule or in the form of a fissure or small ulcer, which in the early stage may closely simulate the simple ulcers just described. Like91 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE Vlceraiion. the same affection attacking the lip, it is much more common in males than females. Any part of . the tongue may be attacked, but its margins, towards the middle or posterior part, suffer much more frequently than the dorsum or anterior portion. In the following table the main points of distinction between this affection and the deep syphilitic ulcer, with which it is very liable to be confounded, are laid down. 136. Differential Diagnosis of Epithelioma and Deep SypMlitio Ulcer. Cause Age Situation Shape Base Edges Course Floor of mouth Epithelioma. Often due to some local irritation, e.g. rough or carious teeth; smoking a clay pipe Generally over 40 years Most commonly at one side, towards middle or posterior third Irregular Foul and sloughy; rough and irregular, with well-marked and wide- spread induration Raised, everted, thick- ened, and indurated Ulceration primary, the induration about base being secondary to the ulceration Becomes involved, so that tongue after a time is tied down,fixed, immovable, and incap- able of being protruded from the mouth Syphilitic Ulcer. Due to breaking down of a gummatous deposit, not to any local irrita- tion. Generally under 40 yrs. Often in median line, towards middle or pos- terior surface of dor- sum. Oval or round. Deeply excavated; much less induration; often covered with a " wash- leather" slough. Rugged and irregular; often sharply cut. Ulceration secondary, i.e. the induration (viz. the gumma) breaks down and ulcerates. Not involved, so that tongue is freely mova- ble and capable of be- ing protruded from the mouth. Diagnosis of Epi- thelioma and deep Syphilitic Ulcer.92 REGIONAL SURGERY Syphilitic Affections. 1. " Desquama- tive Syphilis of Tongue." Speech Pain Glands Number Progress Result of treatment Epithelioma. Syphilitic Ulcer. Concomitant symptoms Soon interfered with, owing to the fixation of tongue Usually acute; often a prominent symptom Those beneath jaw (sub- maxillary) soon affect- ed with secondary de- posits Generally single Generally rapid ; floor of mouth, and in many cases the pillars of fau- ces becoming involved. No effect After a time, evidences of the cancerous ca- chexia Not much affected, as tongue remains free. Generally slight. As a part of a general glandular implication, those in the neck (es- pecially posterior cervi- cal and occipital) may be si ightly enlarged and indurated ; at the same time, the submaxillary may be aifected, as the result of simple irrita- tion propagated from tbe ulcer. May be multiple, though usually single. Slow and stationary. The ulcer heals, often leaving a deep fissured cicatrix (143). At same time, the glandular en- largement, if due to simple irritation, also subsides. A history or other evi- dences of syphilis. 137. SypMlis may attack tlie tongue in any of tlie following manners, viz. : Small white patches appearing at the tip or margin of the tongue, and spreading with crescentic outline towards its hase or centre, due to thickening of the epithelium, which is from time to time shed, leaving the exposed surface smooth and of a vivid red colour, areAFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE 93 Syplnlitic due to ''desquamative sypliUs of tie tongue" a condition recently described as occurring in young children tlie subjects of congenital syphilis* 138. Primary sores, the result of direct inoculation with the syphiUtic virus, are occasionally, though very rarely, seen attacking the tongue. The sore presents the characteristic appearance of the Hunterian chancre, though somewhat modified by its unusual situation, and is soon followed by enlargement and induration of the glands beneath the jaw. 139. Mucous tubercles are generally an early second- ary symptom, occurring at the same time as the papular eruption on the skin. They show themselves as broad, flattened, slightly-raised patches, of a pale- white colour, situated on the margins or surface of the tongue, and resembling in their general appearance the mucous tubercles so often seen on other parts. In many cases ulceration or erosion of their surfaces occurs, giving rise to the " superficial syphilitic ulcer" (135,3). 140. The appearances presented by these affections, which are often found in patients suffering from con- stitutional syphilis, have been already described. Cf. Chronic Superficial Grlossitis (132), Psoriasis (133), Ichthyosis linguae (134). 141. Gummatous deposits may form in the substance of the tongue, in some cases near or upon the margins, but more commonly on the dorsum, in the neighbour- hood of the fibrous septum, and towards its middle or posterior part. They usually appear as small, nodular, painless tumours, single or multiple, varying in size from a pea to a filbert (though in some cases they may attain larger dimensions), projecting on the surface and * Parrot, 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1881, vol. i, p, 461. Affections. 2. Chancre. 3. Mucous Tubercles. 4. Clironic Su- perficial Glos- sitis. 5. Psoriasis. 6. Iclithyosia liuguce. 7. Gummata.SypUilitk Affections. 94 REGIONAL SUEGEET 8. Ulceration. 9. Fissured Tongue. Acute G-lossitis. pushing forwards the raucous memhrane, or situated more deeply in the substance of the tongue. They may remain stationary in this condition for a considerable length of time, giving rise to slight incon- venience, and may subsequently become absorbed and disappear under treatment, producing a fissured con- dition of the tongue (143), or they may soften and break down, giving rise to the formation of the deep tertiary ulcer (135). 142. In constitutional syphilis the tongue may be- come the seat of ulceration, either of a superficial or a deep character (135, 3). 143. As the result of absorption of gummatous de- posits, or after healing has taken place in the case of deep tertiary ulcers, fissures are left extending into the substance of the tongue, and at the same time, in con- sequence of cicatricial contraction of the adjacent tissues, considerable distortion is often produced, the tongue being twisted on itself or drawn over to either side. These fissures cannot be effaced by stretch- ing out the tongue with the fingers, thus differing from the rugse or simple folds in the mucous mem- brane, which are often present on the dorsum of the tongue of those who are the subjects of chronic dys- pepsia. 144. Acute inflammation of the substance of the tongue is sometimes seen as the result of injury, sali- vation by mercury, iodism, or in some cases occurring idiopathically without any apparent cause. The tongue rapidly swells so as to fill the mouth, and in consequence, speech, deglutition, and respiration are considerably interfered with ; the glands beneath the jaw are enlarged and painful, and there is excessive dis- charge of saliva from the mouth. The inflammationArrECTIONS OF THE TONGTTE 95 may subside or terminate in tlie formation of an abscess, or diffuse suppuration. 145. Abscess usually appears as a circumscribed swell- Abscess, ing, more or less superficial, or deeply seated in the substance of the tongue, fluctuating, or of an elastic consistence; on inquiry it will generally be found to have been preceded by symptoms of inflammation. It may also occur in connection with syphilis, as the result of the softening and breaking down of a gummatous deposit (141). 146. Macroglossia or hypertrophy of the Tongue is Macrogiossi usually a congenital affection; the enlargement, which may be symmetrical or may affect one side more than the other, is often so great that the organ projects from the mouth, Prolapsus linguce. This condition has been referred to hypertrophy of the muscular elements, or of the fibrons tissue of the tongue, but in many cases it appears to be the result of lymphatic obstruction and consequent dilatation of the lymph-spaces which nor- mally exist in its substance, and should therefore be regarded as an example of diffused lymphangioma or lymph-tumour affecting the tongue ; in some cases it is associated with the presence of a hygroma (252), or cystic tumour, at one side of the neck, which is then probably due to the same cause, viz. lymphatic obstruction.* In those instances where the affection is not congenital, it usually comes on during the first two or three years after birth. 147. Owing to congenital shortening of the frsemim Tongue-tie. linguae, the anterior portion of the tongue may be fixed and bound down to the floor of the mouth, so that it is incapable of being protruded beyond the teeth; * Maguire, 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' vol. xiv, p. 416-EBGIONAIi SURGERY 96 as a result of this deformity, suckling is interfered with, and when the child grows older, articulation is more or less imperfect. 148. Nseviare sometimes met with on the tongue, usually at birth, of small size or involving the greater part or even the whole of the organ.CHAPTER XI AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE 150, Congenital fissure of tlie palate may appear in cieft-paiate. various degrees of severity, viz. 1. Simple fissure of the soft palate—when the cleft is confined to the soft palate, involving only the uvula, or, in addition, a portion or the whole of the velum palati. 2. Fissure of the soft and a part of the hard palate— when the cleft involves the whole of the soft and a portion of the hard palate. 3. Complete fissure—when the cleft involves the soft and the whole of the hard palate. In this form the alveolar margin of the jaw may be perfect, or it may present a single cleft corresponding with the line of junction of the intermaxillary and superior maxillary bones; or there may be a double cleft of the alveolar ridge corresponding with the lines of junction of the intermaxillary and superior maxillary bones, continuous jjosteriorly with a median fissure of the hard and soft palates. When the alveolar ridge of the jaw is thus involved, harelip (94) is usually associated with the cleft palate ; when the cleft in the alveolus is double, double harelip is generally present; when single, the lip is usually similarly affected, the cleft in the lip cor- responding with that in the alveolar margin, 151, Extreme arching or a dome-shaped condition of Arched j-aiaic. 7REGIONAL SUEGERY 98 Elongation of Uvula. Ulceration of Palate. 1. Sypliilitic. . Epithelio- matous. Pevfonitioii of Hard Palate. Swelling or Pro- minence on Roof of Mouth 1. Inlliitunia- tory. the tard palate is not unf requently present in children the suhjects of congenital syphilis. 152. The uvula is at times much thickened and in- creased in length, and under these circumstances is liahle to give rise to somewhat unpleasant symptoms, e. g. constant cough, and other symptoms of laryngeal irritation, tickling sensation in throat, feeling of nausea, &c. 153. Ulcemtion of the Palate, hard or soft, is very common as one of the symptoms of constitutional syphilis; it may be either of a superficial nature, or may extend deeply, causing perforation of the hard or considerable destruction of the soft. When the disease is arrested the ulcers heal, and adhesions often form between the velum and the back of the pharynx, causing more or less stenosis of the pharynx (180), and conse- quently interfering with deglutition and often producing a nasal intonation of voice. In other cases it is due to epithelioma, commencing in the velum palati or pillars of the fauces, or spreading from the tonsil (172) or tongue (135), and involving the palate secondarily from simple extension. 154. Perforation of the Sard Palate is generally the result of syphilitic ulceration of its mucous covering, which, extending deeply and involving the bone, has been followed by caries or necrosis of the bony palate ; the presence of this condition is usually indicated by a nasal intonation of voice. 155. A Swelling or undue Prominence on the Boof of the Mouth may be due to various conditions, viz. 1. Simple inflammatory affections, e. g. a simple abscess forming in the soft tissue covering the hard palate, as, for example, alveolar abscess, fori^iing in connection with the upper teeth and burrowing back-wards beneath99 AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE Swelling or Pro- minence on Roof of Mouth. 2. Gummy Tu- mours. 3. New Growths. the bone and periosteum, or in the soft tissues forming the roof of the mouth. This condition may be dis- tinguished from a periosteal sarcoma springing from the hard palate, which in some cases it closely resembles, by a history of pain with symptoms of inflammation attending its formation, by the presence in many cases of a carious tooth, by the more rapid formation of the swelling, by its more elastic nature, and by the presence of fluctuation; in many cases, when of a chronic nature and unattended by symptoms of inflammation, recourse to exploratory puncture may be necessary before a diagnosis can be made. , 2. Gummy tumours (157). 3. Tumours or new growths, e. g. a tumour originating in or involving the antrum, growing downwards and pushing before it the hard palate (103). An epulis springing from the alveolus, growing backwards and involving the roof of the mouth (162). Epithelioma springing from the mucous membrane of the mouth or alveolus (163). Sarcomata springing from the periosteum of the hard palate, appearing as a soft, semi-elastic, more or less rapidly growing tumour affecting the roof of the mouth (for diagnosis from alveolar abscess, cf. 155). 156. An undue prominence, displacement, or pushing Displacements c 1 <• -1 ^ J IT, . forwai ds of Soft rorwards or the sort palate may be due to various Palate, causes, e. g.: Naso-pharyngeal polypus (84). Eetro-pharyngeal abscess (182). Pharyngeal tumours (184). Abscess of soft palate (159). Guramy tumours of soft palate (157). Very rarely, meningoceles of the base of the skull (2),REGIONAL SUEaEET 100 or spina bifida, presenting itself on the anterior aspect of the vertebral colnmn (311). Gummy Tumours 167. In acquired syphilis a deposit of gummatous material often occurs in the soft tissues of the hard palate, in many cases involving also the periosteum covering the bone. This usually shows itself as a soft, elastic swelling upon the roof of the mouth, often in the median Hne, varying in size from a pea to a walnut, or even larger; if not absorbed under treatment, it will probably soften and break down, giving rise to super- ficial ulceration, or if extending deeply, it will probably expose a necrosed condition of the palatal process of the superior maxilla, and in many cases an opening will result (164), forming a communication between the buccal and nasal cavities. In children, the subjects of congenital syphilis, well- defined tumours of a similar nature are sometimes seen ; they are most common between the ages of six and twelve, and may attain the size of a walnut, or even larger. A similar deposit of gummy material may occur in the substance of the soft palate, giving rise to the presence of a small tumour, varying in size from a pea to a bean; as the result of softening and breaking down of this deposit, ulceration, perforation, and destruction, more or less extensive, of the soft palate is very liable to ensue (163). Necrosis of Hard 158. NecTOsis of the hard palate is generally the Palate. result of the softening and breaking down of a deposit of gummy material in the soft tissues or periosteum covering it. Abscess. 169. Ahseess in the substance of the soft palate is sometimes met with, not uncommonly as the result of extension of inflammation, in cases of acute tonsillitis101 AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE (169); in other cases it may be due to the softening and breaking down of a gummatous deposit, or the irrita- tion of a foreign body. It presents itself as a soft, fluctuating swelling, causing an undue prominence or bulging forwards of the velum palati, attended by more or less pain, and when of large size, offering considerable obstruction to both deglutition and respiration.CHAPTER XII AFFECTIONS OF THE GUMS 160. Hypertrophy of the Crum, or a simple outgrowth of gum-tissue alone, is sometimes seen, presenting itself as a more or less pedunculated, red, fleshy, polypoid growth, often projecting above and overlapping the crowns of the teeth. This condition is usually asso- ciated with uncleanly habits, or may be due to the irritation of carious teeth. 161. The gums, especially in the neighbourhood of the front teeth, are not uncommonly the seat of vascular or ncevoid growths, generally of small size, often more or less pedunculated, and readily bleeding upon manipula- tion. 162. The term Epulis {kin, upon, ovXov, the gum) is sometimes applied to any tumour situated upon the gum, but strictly speaking it should be confined to the more or less purely fibrous tumour that arises from the surface of the alveolar process, and which is in many cases connected with the periosteum, lining membrane of the alveolus, and fibrous tissue of the gum. The simple epulis is a purely fibrous tumour; in some cases, however, round and spindle (sarcomatous) cells are found mixed with imperfectly formed fibrous tissue, or myeloid cells may be present as well, and may constitute the greater portion of the growth. The purely fibrous epulis shows no tendency to returnAFFECTIONS OF THE GUMS 103 after complete removal, but in those cases where there is a combination of round, spindle, or myeloid cells, with imperfectly formed fibrous tissue, local recurrence is very liable to take place. An epulis usually appears as a small, lobulated, fleshy outgrowth of the gum, in the immediate neigh- bourhood of or surrounding the teeth, which often pro- ject through it. It generally has a broad base, is of firm or semi-elastic consistence, growing slowly, and at times slightly ulcerating on the surface. 163. Epithelioma, or " malignant epulis," as it is Epithelioma, sometimes termed, may attack the gum, and is to be Epuiu." recognised by the indurated, everted edges and irregular, ulcerated surface of the growth, which is often some- what excavated, and at times very vascular, bleeding readily. Enlargement of the glands beneath the jaw is soon produced, and the disease, which is often attended by considerable pain, generally occurs at a later period of life than the simple epulis just described (162). 164. Mercurial Stomatitis is characterised by redness Mercurial stomn- and swelling of the gums, which feel tender and bleed readily. There is a disagreeable fcetor of the breath with profuse secretion of saliva, and the patient expe- riences a peculiar metallic taste. After a time ulcera- tion occurs along the margin of the gums; sloughing of their surface ensues, the teeth become loosened and fall out, and in extreme cases necrosis of the alveolar margin of the jaw may ensue. 165. In Chronic Lead-poisoning, a peculiar blue line in Lead-poiaon- is produced at the junction of the gums and teeth, and the latter, if not cleansed, become coated with a blackish incrustation and show a tendency to decay. The other symptoms of lead-poisoning will be pro- bably present, e.g. intestinal colic, muscular tremors.104 REGIONAL SUEGEET and paralysis of the extensors of the forearm, giving rise to the condition known as " wrist-drop," In Scurvy. iQQ ^^^^.^y^ gums becomo swollen, turgid, and spongy, sometimes reaching to the level of the teeth, bleeding readily, and showing a tendency to ulcerate and slough off, exposing the fangs of the teeth or alveolar margin of the jaw. Gingivitis. l^T. Dentition in children is usually accompanied by some inflammation of the gums, which become hot, red, tender, and swollen, and at the same time slight pyrexia is often present. Ulceration. 168. Ulceration of the gums is often seen in severe cases of stomatitis (127), cancrum oris (63), scurvy, salivation from mercury, &c. In some cases it may be due to extension of lupus from the cheeks; extensive sloughing of the soft tissues may result, and as a con- sequence exposure of the fangs of the teeth and necrosis of the jaw is often produced.CHAPTEE Xni AFFECTIONS OF THE TONSILS 169. Acute Inflammation of the Tonsils, Cynanche ton- Acute Tonsillitis. sillaris, ox Quinsy, is characterised hj a rapid enlarge- ment of the affected gland, which projects as a red and prominent swelling from between the pillars of the fauces into the interior of the pharynx. It is accom- panied by more or less inflammation of the back of the pharynx and surrounding parts, pain in the throat, in- creased on swallowing, thickness of the voice, profuse secretion of saliva, tenderness and swelling perceptible externally about the angle of the jaw, foul tongue, and pyrexia. If both tonsils are involved, respiration may be inter- fered with, especially when the patient is in the recum- bent position. If the process goes on to suppuration and the forma- tion of an abscess in the substance of the tonsil, the swelling will increase and fluctuation will be evident. If unopened, the pus will usually make its way into the interior of the pharynx. Acute tonsillitis is sometimes associated with the formation of an abscess in the substance of the soft palate (159). 170. Chronic Inflammation, or Hypertrophy of iAe Chronic Tonsil- Tonsils, is often met with in children, and not uncom- monly in young adults of a strumous or feeble constitu-106 EEGIONAL SUEGEBY tion. Botli glands are usually affected, projecting as pale, indurated, somewhat nodular masses from between the pillars of the fauces into the interior of the pharynx, where they sometimes meet and touch each other in the middle line. In some cases their surface becomes affected with superficial ulceration. As a consequence, deglutition and respiration are more or less interfered with. The sense of hearing is often impaired ("throat dea.fness") (358), owing to thickening and congestion of the surrounding mucous membrane causing obstruction of the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. The patient speaks with a pecuhar nasal twang, snores loudly at night, and breathes with the mouth half open. The mucous membrane of the back of the pharynx is often much thickened and relaxed (176), and the lymphatic glands at the sides of the neck are not uu- commonly also enlarged and perceptible beneath the skin (248). . The enlargement of the tonsils is, m many cases, the result of obstruction of the ducts of the gland, which leads to retention of mucous secretion withm the follicles, and this is followed by chronic inflammatory changes in the surrounding tissue, syphilitic uicera- 171. Ulceration of the Tonsils very commonly occurs as the result of constitutional syphilis. Small, round ulcers, with sharply cut edges, of a superficial nature, are often present in the earlier stages, affectmg both the tonsils, fauces, and back of pharynx, while at a later period deep circular ulcers are often found due to softening and breaking down of gummatous deposits. This condition is diagnosed from epitheliomatous ulce- ration (172) by the fact that both tonsils, as also neighbouring parts, are usually similarly affected, byAFFECTIONS OF THE TONSILS 107 the multiplicity, in many cases, and also by the sym- metry of the ulcers, by the absence of induration and aversion of the edges, and by the history and other evidences of the presence of syphilis, 172. Malignant Disease may attack the tonsil in the Malignant Dis- form either of sarcoma or carcinoma. Carcinoma. Sarcoma, usually of the round-celled variety, is the most common variety of malignant tumour, but carci- noma is also met with in the form of epithelioma, en- cepJialoid, or more rarely scirrhous cancer. Epithelioma usually appears as a deep foul ulcer, with indurated and everted edges. It may attack the tonsil primarily, or be due to extension of disease from the tongue, palate, or pillars of the fauces. Sarcomata and encephaloid cancer show themselves as prominent, rapidly growing tumours, soon involving the surround- ing structures, and, in the case of cancer, soon accom- panied by enlargement of the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw and side of the neck. The epitheliomatous ulcer may simulate that which is found in syphilis from the breaking down of a gummatous deposit (171), but the induration of the base and eversion of the edges of the ulcer, the rapid progress of the disease and implication of the surround- ing structures (pillars of the fauces, base of tongue, and neighbouring glands), the more advanced age of the patient in many cases, the fact that no improvement results from specific treatment, and the absence of other symptoms of syphilis, will usually enable one to readily diagnose between the two affections. 173 Calculi occasionally form in the substance of the Caicuii. tonsil, give rise to a more or less painful enlargement of the gland. In some cases suppuration is set up, andREGIONAL STJR&ERT 108 the abscess bursting into the pbarynx, the calculus may be spontaneously expelled. Chancre. 173 a. In rare instances, as the result of accidental inoculation, the tonsil may become the seat of a primary syphilitic sore. The chancre, which is always single, usually appears as a superficial ulceration with an indurated base, dis- charging a scanty fluid, and it is soon followed by enlargement of the glands about the angle of the jaw. The diagnosis of this condition is often somewhat difficult, especially in the early stage before any secon- dary symptoms have showed themselves. The history of the case and the subacute nature of the affection may, however, perhaps throw some light upon its nature.CHAPTEE XIV AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX 174. Jcute Inflammation of the interior of the Acute^Pharyn- pharynx is accompanied by symptoms very similar to those of acute tonsillitis (IQd), with which affection it is often found associated. On inspection the interior of the fauces will be seen to be swollen and inflamed, and in severe cases superficial erosion and ulceration may occur in places. Pain and difiiculty in swallowing are the chief local symptoms, and more or less pyrexia is generally present. If the inflammation extends to and involves the larynx the voice becomes thick and husky, and considerable dyspnoea may be produced (313). It may occur as the result of cold, in the course of the exanthemata (e.g. scarlet fever), from swallowing boiling fluids or chemical irritants. The so-called "hospital sore throat" is probably due to some poison in the atmosphere acting upon a person whose vital powers are lowered, which is often the case in those who have lived in a hospital for a considerable length of time. 176. In Chronic Pharyngitis, "Relaxed throat," a ciimnicPharyn- feeling of uneasiness or soreness is experienced at the back of the pharynx ; the voice is often thick and husky, slight cough is generally present, and there is a constant desire to clear the throat. On examination the back of the pharynx presents a relaxed, congested, and granular appearance, the glandular follicles being moreREGIONAL SUBGBBT 110 Strumous Pha- ryngitia. Syphilitic Pha- ryngitis. 1. Erythema. 3. Mucous Patches. prominent than usual, and superficial erosions and small ulcers are frequently present. This condition, which is common amongst clergymen or those who use the voice much in public speahing, is familiarly known as " clergymen's sore throat" (317). 176. In strumous children, the mucous membrane lining the pharynx is often thickened and relaxed, and the glandular follicles are hypertrophied and rendered more prominent than usual. This condition is the result of a low form of chronic inflammation, the glandular tissue at the back of the pharynx becoming the seat of changes somewhat similar to what occur in the tonsils, for hypertrophy of these structures (170) is often found to coexist. The enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the neck (248), so common in these subjects, is in many cases due to irritation propagated from the pharynx, in the lymphoid tissues of which a number of their radicles originate. 177. In constitutional syphilis the phaiynx may be- come affected in various ways, e.g.: 1. Erythema.—hi the very early stage, and correspond- ino- with the period of macular eruption (roseola) on the skin an erythematous redness often spreads over the posterior surface of the pharynx, most marked on the velum palati, pillars of fauces, and tonsils, distmctly defined, usually symmetrical, and sometimes going on to very superficial ulceration. 2 Mucous Patches or Tubercles.—At a stage somewhat more advanced, and correspondmg with the period of papular (lichen) and squamous (psoriasis) eruptions on the skin, the same parts may become the seat of mucous patches or tubercles. These present themselves as broad, flattened, slightly raised patches, of a pale-AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX ]11 „ ,t,- Syphilitic Pha- ryngitis. whitisli colour, circular or oval in shape, and often bilaterally symmetrical. In many cases they become the seat of shallow ulcer- ations, as a result of which numerous small ulcers with sharply-cut edges, never sinking to any great depth, are seen studded over the pillars of the fauces, velum palati, and surface of the tonsils. 3. Ulceration.—In the later stages of the affection, ^- Ulceration, deep and perforating ulcers, due to breaking down of gummatous deposits, form in the same parts, destroying the soft palate and pillars of the fauces more or less completely (153), extending deeply into the substance of the tonsils (171), and sometimes affecting also the posterior surface of the pharynx (179). 178. In Diphtheria, the mucous lining of the pharynx, ^ipi»ti»eria. much inflamed and swollen, becomes coated in places with a thick, greyish-white exudation. When this sepa- rates and comes away, it leaves behind a raw, bleeding surface or distinct ulcer, which, however, soon becomes covered over again with a fresh deposit, and this spread- ing from the throat may involve the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. There is considerable depression of strength, quick pulse, more or less pyrexia, albuminous urine, soreness of the throat, dijfficulty in swallowing, dyspnoea if the larynx becomes involved, and tenderness and enlaro-e- ment of the lymphatic glands about the angles of the jaw. 179. TJlcera:tion of the interior of the pharynx is Ulceration. generally the result of constitutional syphilis (177), and !• SyphiiiUc. in the majority of cases the soft palate (153) and tonsils (171) will be found to be more or less similarly affected. In other cases it may be due to epithelioma com- EpiHieiio- lUlltOUS.112 EEGIONAIi SITEGERT mencing primarily in its walls, or extending backwards from the tongue (135), tonsil (172), palate, or pillars of the fauces (153). stenosis of 180. When cicatrisation takes place in cases of Pharynx. gyp|,iiitic ulceration that has extended widely, destroy- ing the soft palate, pillars of the fauces, and posterior wall of the pharynx, considerable narrowing of the arch of the fauces and adhesion of the remains of the soft palate to the pillars of the fauces and back of the pharynx may result, and in extreme cases the communi- cation between the nares and pharynx may be com- pletely cut off. • 11 Prominence of 181. A swelUng or prominence of the posterior wall of PhaS-of the pharynx may be due to several causes, e.g.: _ Abscess of a simple nature, or forming m connection with caries of the cervical vertebrae (182). Gummatous deposits in the soft tissue, or periosteum of the anterior surface of the vertebrae (184). Tumours or new growths, probably of a sarcomatous nature (184). . Very rarely, a ''spina bifida," presenting itself on the anterior surface of the vertebral column (311). Postpharyngeal 182. Post-pUryugeal or Betro-pharyngeal Abscess is sometimes met with, most commonly m connection witu caries of the cervical vertebra, more rarely as an inde- pendent affection. In other cases, it is the result of iniury e g. the irritation of a foreign body. Owino- to the fact that some of the lymphatics from the nas°al fossae terminate in two small lymphatic glands, situated in front of the upper portion of the spine, " retro-pharyngeal abscess may arise m conse- quence of disease of the nose." * It shows itself as a more or less prominent sweUing, # Frankel, • Ziemssen's Cyclopffidia^' vpl, iv, p. 127.113 AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX fluctuating or of elastic consistence, pushing forwards the posterior wall of the pharynx, interfering more or less with deglutition, and, if of large size, offering con- siderable obstruction to respiration. It may occur at any age, but is most commonly found in children, and, in the majority of cases, on careful examination, evidences of cervical caries (304) will be seen to be present. If occurring in adults without any evidence of spinal disease, and where the sense of fluctuation cannot be readily obtained, there may be some difficulty in dis- tinguishing between this affection and a tumour origi- nating in the same situation (184), If left to itself, a post-pharyngeal abscess may burst into the pharynx, or, burrowing laterally, the pus may pass forwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, and point either at the side or fore part of the neck (256). 183. Pharyngocele, i.e. dilatation and pouching of the Piiaryngoceie. lower part of the pharynx (cf. 193), 184. Tumours are sometimes met with springing Tumours, from the back of the pharynx, either of a simple or malignant nature ; in many instances, especially when of softish and semi-elastic consistence, pushing before them the mucous membrane, they closely simulate a post-pharyngeal abscess, and recourse to exploratory puncture may be necessary in order to distinguish be- tween the two affections. The tumours most commonly met with in this situation are either— Sarcomata, springing from the periosteum, " perios- Saicomatn. teal," or originating in the interior of the bodies of the vertebrae, " central " (312 a). Gummata, the result of deposit of gummatous material ^ uranmtn. in the soft tissues of the back of the pharynx, or in the 8]14 REGIONAL SUEGERY periosteum covering the anterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. In the early stage, the diagnosis of these affections is often a difficult matter ; from post-pharyngeal abscess (182), which is generally found at an earlier age, they can usually be distinguished by the absence of a feeling of true fluctuation, and also of any evidence of disease of the cervical vertebrae (304). G-ummata and sarcomata are most commonly found in adults, and in the former case there -^ill usually be a history or other evidences of syphilis, and the swelhng will either disappear under treatment, or softening and breaking down may form a deep ulcer on the posterior wall of the pharynx, and be followed by necrosis or caries of the anterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. Sarcomata are distinguished by their smooth surface; their soft semi-elastic consistence with absence of fluc- tuation ; by the fact that they are uninfluenced by treatment, but steadily increase in size, extending up- wards and downwards along the anterior surface of the vertebrae, and also laterally, involving adjacent structures ; at the same time they grow forwards into the interior of the pharynx, producing serious pressure effects, and ultimately cause death either from asphyxia or interference with deglutition. mesandNe- 185. Caries or Necrosis of the anterior surface of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae forming the posterior wall of the pharynx is generally the primary cause of post-pharyngeal abscess (182) ; it may follow the soften- ing and breaking down of gummatous deposits (184), or the formation of a simple abscess in this situation. 186. Paralysis of the Muscles of the pharynx is some- mSL°^ times met with, the result of the same causes which produce a similar condition in the oesophagus (190).CHAPTEE XV AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 187. Dysphagia, or difficulty of swallowing, may be Dyspimgi, due to any of the following causes:— 1. Affections of pharynx:— Pharyngitis, acute, chronic, diphtheritic, syphilitic ; ulceration of pharynx, &c. (174—179). Tonsillitis, acute or chronic (169, 170). Post-pharyngeal abscess (182). Pharyngeal tumours (184). Dilatation of pharynx (pharyngocele (183). Stenosis of pharynx (180). Paralysis of muscles of pharynx (186). 2. Affections of oesophagus :— I" Hysterical or nerv- Spasmodic. Stricture (188) ous. .Irritative or reflex. Cicatricial or fibrous, ^Carcinomatous. Muscular paralysis (190). Dilatation of oesophagus (oesophagocele) (193). Impaction of foreign bodies (191). Scalds (192). 3. Affections of larynx :— Acute or chronic laryngitis, ulceration, &c (313 —318). (Edema glottidis (313). Ulceration about back of epiglottis (318).EEGIONAL SUEGERT 116 4. Pressure of tumours outside oesophagus :— Glandular or other tumours in the neck (245), Tumours connected with thyroid gland (257). Aneurism: aortic, innominate, carotid, subclavian (258). Intrathoracic tumours, mediastinal cancer, &c. 5. Displacement of sternal end of clavicle backwards— from injury, or in connection with excessive cur- vature of spine. stricture 188. Stricture of the (Esophagus may be spasmodic or organic in its nature, and organic stricture may again be either simple or fibrous, or malignant or cancerous. 1. Spasmodic Spasmodic Stricture generally occurs in young or middle-aged females of a nervous or hysterical temper- ament, and the obstruction is due to spasm affecting the constrictor muscles of the lower part oE the pharynx rather than those of the oesophagus itself; when occur- ing in these subjects, it is sometimes termed " Hysterical or Nervous stricture." In some cases, this form of stricture is associated with some slight ulceration of the mucous lining of the oeso- phagus, which may be of a simple, syphilitic, or trau- matic nature, the spasm being then the result of reflex irritation ; under these circumstances, it is sometimes termed *' Irritative or Beflex stricture." The diagnosis of the affection can usually be made by attention to the following points : the age, sex, and temperament of the patient; the intermittent nature of the symptoms, which are entirely absent at times, and are aggravated when the patient's attention is directed to them ; the disappearance of the resistance, which is at first offered to the passage of a bougie, on making steady and firm pressure ; and also its complete absence when the patient is under the influence of an anaesthetic.AFFECTIONS OF THE CESOPHAGUS 117 strieture. Cicatricial or Fibrous stricture is generally tlie result ^-SS'"'" of swallowing some corrosive fluid or boiling liquid, in consequence of which the mucous lining of the ceso- phagus is more or less extensively destroyed, and the cicatricial tissue which supplies its place, afterwards undergoing contraction, causes a permanent narrowing of the tube. In rare instances, it may occur after healing has taken place in the case of ulceration affecting the oeso- phagus, usually of a specific character. This form is diagnosed from cancerous stricture, with which it is liable to be confounded, by the previous history of the case, the patient having usually swallowed at a former period some caustic fluid or boiling liquid ; by the smooth surface of the constriction felt on passing a bougie, very different from the rough, ulcerated sur- face usually found in cancer; by the fact that the patient simply brings up glairy mucus, never pus, blood, or shreds of tissue, as in cancer ; by the absence of any enlargement of the cervical glands, or of any tumour perceptible in the neck; by in many cases the age of the patient, this form often occurring in young people ; by the absence of any evidence of the cancerous cachexia, though after a time considerable emaciation may be produced, as the symptoms increase in severity, and nutrition is consequently interfered with. Malianant or Cancerous Stricture.—Carcinoma usually 3. Malignant or . p • T T Cancerous. attacks the oesophagus m the form of epithelioma, its other varieties (scirrhus and encephaloid) being of extremely rare occurrence. Any part of the oesophagus may be affected, but the most common situation is per- haps the upper third. The disease is rarely met with before middle life, and it generally runs a rapid course, the neighbouring lymphatic glands and surroundingEEGIONAIj sttrqery 118 structures (most commonly the larynx and trachea), being soon involved by extension of the disease. In the following table the main points of distinction between this and the fibrous form of stricture are laid down. Diagnosis of Fi- brous and Cau- cerous Stric- ture. Muscular Para- lysis. 189. Differential Diagnosis of Fibrous and Cancerous Stricture of (Esophagus. Age . . . Previous his- tory Sensation on passing bougie Eegurgitated matter Cervical glands External swelling Fibrous. May occur at any age; not uncommon in young people Some corrosive liquid or boiling fluid has usually been swallowed. Surface of stricture feels smooth aud even; pas- sage of instrument not followed by htEmor- rhage. Glairy mucus Not afiected None Cancerous. Usually in middle age or advanced life. No history of any injury. Surface of stricture feels rough, irregular and uneven. Passage of in- strument causes con- siderable irritation, and is often followed by lisemorrhage. Pus, blood, and often .ohreds of tissue. Often become, after a time, secondarily af- fected. Often perceptible in neck when disease is ad- vanced, from glandular implication and inva- sion of adjacent tissues. 190. Paralysis of the Muscles of the (Esophagus is sometimes seen as the result of cerebral disease {e.g, general paralysis of the insane, glosso-laryugeal para- lysis) or as one of the sequelae of diphtheria. The symptoms are not unlike those of stricture, but the fact that in paralysis solid substances can be oftenAFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 119 swallowed without much trouble, while considerable difficulty attends the passage of liqxiids (a condition just the opposite of that which exists in stricture), will serve to distinguish between the two affections ; the absence of any resistance to the passage of a bougie, the history of the case, and other symptoms present, will also assist in diagnosis. 191. Foreign Bodies are in some cases arrested in the Foreign oesophagus, and, if of considerable size, generally oppo- site the cricoid cartilage, or just above the diaphragm, these being the narrowest portions of the gullet; the symptoms indicating their presence are more or less irritation, with dysphagia and pain on swallowing. It not uncommonly happens that after some sharp or rough substance, such as a piece of bone, has been swallowed, the mucous lining of the oesophagus may have been slightly lacerated; under these circumstances the patient generally believes that the foreign body is still present in the cesophagus, and deglutition is, for a time, rendered painful and difficult. If of considerable size and impacted in the upper part of the gullet, a foreign body can sometimes be detected in the neck on external examination. 192. Scalds from swallowing boiling fluids, involving Scalds, the lower part of the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus, are always followed by acute inflamma- tion of the parts, with pain and difficulty in deglutition; in many cases the orifice of the larynx is involved at the same time, as a result of which oedema glottidis (313) is produced, and death often results from suffo- cation. If the patient recovers from the effects of the injury, there is always a risk of a fibrous stricture of the CESophagus (188) forming in after life.120 EEGIONAI, SUEGEET Similar effects may follow the swallowing of caustic or corrosive fluids. Dilatation. 193. Dilatation of the oesophaofus (oesopJiaqocele), or " CLsopliagocele." r a \ j. a /j or the lower part of the pharynx (pharyngocele), is generally found associated with stricture; much more rarely it is of congenital origin, or the result of injury, or disease (e.g. ulceration). It is met with in two forms, either as a distinct pouching or diverticulum at some point of the food passage, or as a general dilata- tion of the lower part of the pharynx or of the oeso- phagus itself for a greater or less portion of its length. This condition is characterised by more or less dys- phagia and regurgitation of food after a varying in- terval, along with the usual symptoms of stricture (188) when that condition is present. In rare cases the dilated portion of the tube, when distended with food, is perceptible as a swelling at one side of the neck, which can be emptied and made to disappear on external pressure. Rupture. 194. Rupture of the (Esophagus is a rare accident, which may take place during violent attacks of vomiting, usually in those in whom the walls of the gullet are weakened from disease. It is characterised by acute pain, cessation usually of vomiting, though in some cases vomiting of blood may ensue, emphysema of the neck, and severe collapse, which generally soon terminates in death.CHAPTER XVI AFFECTIONS OF THE EYELIDS 195. Tinea tarsi, Ophthalmia tarsi, or Blepharitis, are the terms applied to a chronic inflammation of the margins of the eyelids, which has its seat in the glands and follicles of the eyelashes. The edges of the lids become red and irritable, and there is an excessive viscid secretion which causes them to adhere together during sleep; in neglected cases small pustules form, and, these bursting, leave super- ficial ulcerations; at the same time the eyelashes are loosened and fall out, the edges of the lids become thickened and everted, and, in consequence of the dis- placement or narrowing of the puncta, epiphora (224) is often produced. To this, the chronic stage of tinea tarsi, the term " Lippit^cdo" is applied. Tin6a tarsi is most commonly seen in the children of the poorer classes; it is generally associated with a low state of health, often occurring in connection with the strumous diathesis. 196. Phthiriasis of the eyelids is an uncommon con- PWUiriasis. dition sometimes seen in children, due to the presence of crab-lice (phthirius), which bury their heads in the skin at the roots of the lashes. From the irritation produced, the margins of the eye- lids present an appearance very similar to that seen in tinea tarsi, but on careful examination the presence and122 EEGIONAL StmaEEY Hordeolum or "Stye." Inflammation and Abscess. Ulceration. 1. Rodent Ulcer. 2. Lupus. 3. Epithelioma. 4. Syphilitic. Syphilitic affec- tions. movements of the little insects can generally be de- tected. 197. Hordeolum, or Stye, is the term applied to an acute or subacute inflammation of the glands at the margin of the eyelids. It shows itself as a small, red, and painful swelling, which may suppurate, or remain in an indolent condition for some time, and then gradually subside. Styes are in many cases, especially when appearing in successive crops, indicative of a lew state of the general health. 198. Inflammation of the soft tissues entering into the formation of the eyelids may occur as the result of injury, or it may be due to simple extension of inflam- mation from adjacent parts, e. g. the face, scalp, or orbit itself; the eyelids become red, hot, painful, and exces- sively swollen, and, if suppuration occurs, fluctuation will be evident. 199. Ulceration of the eyelids may be due to various causes, viz.: The cutaneous aspect of the eye- lids, more especially the lower one, is a favourite seat of rodent ulcer; they may also become the seat of epithelioma or lupus (the general characteristics of which have been described in Table, p. 34) or of sy- philitic ulcers (200). 200. Syphilis may attack the eyelids in the form of primary sores or chancres, or secondary or tertiary ulcers. Chancres are of extremely rare occurrence. They usually appear as superficial or slightly excavated sores, with well-marked induration about their base; there is 1. Rodent ulcer 2. Lupus 3. Epithelioma 4s. SyphiliticV AFFECTIONS OF THE EYELIDS 128 not much discharge from the surface of the ulcer. The nearest set of lymphatic glands (pre-auricular and submaxillary) speedily become involved, and, unless specific treatment is adopted, secondary symptoms will soon appear. Secondary or Tertiary ulcers, the result of the spread- ing of pustular syphilides, or of the breaking down of gummatous deposits, are more frequently met with than the primary sore. They differ from rodent ulcer and epithelioma, with which they are liable to be mis- taken, by their mure rapid course; by the character of their edges, which are more clean cut and punched out; by the absence of induration about their base or mar- gins ; by the fact that they are often multiple, and in many cases occur in younger subjects; by their amena- bility to treatment; and by a history or other evidence of the constitutional affection. 201. EccJiymosis, or extravasation of blood, into the Ecchymosis. cellular tissue of the eyelids may be due to direct in- jury, e, g. a blow over the eye; or it may be secondary to effusion of blood into the soft tissues of the orbit, the result of a fracture of some portion of its bony walls. The main points of diagnosis between these two forms of injury have been described (46). 202. Emphysema of the eyelids, giving rise to a soft Emphysema, crepitating swelling of the parts, is a common compli- cation of fractures of the orbit involving the frontal sinus or ethmoidal cells. It is also often seen in cases of general emphysema extending to and involving the neck and face (68). 203. The tumours or new growths most commonly Tumours, found attacking the eyelids are Meibomian or tarsal cysts (204), nffivi (205), papillomata (206), sebaceous124 EEGIONAL STJUGERY Meibomian or Tarsal Cysts. Nsevi. Papillomata. Sebaceous Cysts. or dermoid cysts (207), molluscum contagiosum (208); they also frequently become the seat of rodent ulcer (199), and much more rarely of epithelioma (199). 204. Small, isolated, encysted tumours, due to hyper- trophy or overgrowth of a Meibomian gland, are often met with in the eyelids, more especially the upper one. They usually appear as small, hard, painless nodules, about the size of a pea ; more than one is often present, and they may make their way, either inwards so as to project on the conjunctival surface, or less frequently outwards beneath the skin, which is at first freely mov- able over them ; they may remain of small size and in a stationary condition for a considerable period, or, be- coming inflamed, may sometimes suppurate. 206. The eyelids are sometimes the seat of ncevi, which may be confined to the skin, or involve the whole thickness of the lid and subjacent conjunctiva; in some cases, they may be an extension of similar growths within the orbit (242). 206. Papillomata, or warty growths, are sometimes met with attacking the margins of the eyelids. When occurring in elderly people, they should be regarded with suspicion, for, as previously stated (199), the eye- lids are a favourite situation for rodent ulcer, which in many instances first shows itself in the form of a small nodule or warty growth. 207. Sebaceous or Dermoid cysts are sometimes met with in the neighbourhood of the eyelids, most com- monly at the upper and outer, or lower and inner, margins of the orbit. They are usually of congenital origin, lying at some depth from the surface beneath the orbicularis muscle, often in a depression in the subjacent bone, which in some cases may be completely perforated.125 AFFECTIONS OF THE EYELIDS They closely resemble the similar tumours occurring on the scalp (3), differing from the acquired form of sebaceous cyst in the following points: they are more deeply situated and have no connection with the skin ; they are intimately connected with the subjacent and surrounding tissues ; in addition to sebaceous matter, they often contain hair in their interior. 208. Molluscum contaqiosum sometimes attacks the Moiiuscum ron- tagiosum. eyelids, the small tumours presenting an appearance similar to that seen when the cheek or other portion of the face is similarly affected (41). 209. Xanthelasma, or XantJwma, are the terms applied Xanthelasma, to yellow or buff-coloured patches affecting the skin of the eyelids, most commonly in the neighbourhood of the inner canthus; the patches, which are on a level with, or very slightly raised above, the surrounding skin, have sharply defined margins. This affection, which is most commonly met with in females beyond middle age, appears to depend upon a deposit of yellow pigment in the cells of the rete, and throughout the corium, and is in many cases found in those who .have been subject to prolonged attacks of jaundice, recurrent sick headaches, or uterine disorders. 210. Epicanthus is the term applied to a rare condi- Epicanthus. tion present at birth, in which a crescentic fold of skin stretches across and overlaps the inner canthus, repre- senting the membrana nictitans of lower animals. 211. Anchylohlepharon is the term applied to the Ajiciiyiobie- union of the margins of the eyelids to each other. pi»aron. Symblepharon signifies an adhesion of the eyelids to Symbiepharon. the surface of the eyeball; these conditions are usually the result of injuries, e. g. burns, in consequence of which adhesions form between the apposed conjunctival surfaces.REGIONAL SURGERY 126 212. Entropion, or inversion of tlie margin of the eyelids, may be of two kinds, viz. : 1. Spasmodic—the result of spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis muscle; this form is most commonly seen in old people, in whom the skin of the eyelids is loose and relaxed. 2. Organic—dependent upon structural changes lead- ing to contraction of the palpebral conjunctiva; this is generally the result of granular or purulent ophthalmia, or of injuries or operations involving the eyelids, in which a portion of the palpebral conjunctiva has been destroyed. Trichiasis (214) is generally produced, and in many cases epiphora (224), due to displacement or obstruc- tion of the canaliculi, is also present. 213. Ectropion, or eversion of the margin of the eye- lid, is the opposite condition to the preceding, and may be due to a variety of different causes; e. g. the con- traction of cicatrices on the face or eyelids in the case of wounds, burns, lupoid or other forms of ulceration, involving the soft tissues in the neighbourhood of the orbit; dropping of the lower lid with slight eversion of its margin is sometimes seen in cases of paralysis of the orbicularis, or, in the old and feeble, where the skin of the eyelid is loose and relaxed. In consequence of the eversion of the eyelid, which varies in extent in different cases, the exposed con- junctiva becomes thickened and inflamed; owing to the displacement of the canaliculi, epiphora is present, and in severe cases, owing to the anterior surface of the eyeball being constantly exposed and deprived of its natural coverings, chronic inflammatory changes, often leading to ulceration, are produced. 214. Ti-ichiasis is the term applied to an ingrowingAFFECTIONS OF THE EYELIDS 127 or displacement of the eyelashes, the result generally of contraction of the palpebral conjunctiva in cases of granular lids ; owing to the friction of the eyelashes against the globe, its anterior surface becomes irritated and the seat of chronic inflammatory changes. This condition is generally found to be present in cases of entropion (212). The term distichiasis is applied when the eyelashes are so displaced that they are arranged in a double row. 215. Fistulous Openings, discharging a clearish or Lachrymal Fis- muco-purulent fluid, are sometimes seen in the outer portion of the upper eyelid communicating with the lachrymal gland (220), or in the neighbourhood of the inner canthus leading down to the lachrymal sac (223). 216. Ptosis, or drooping of the upper eyelid, may be ^iobib. due to several causes, viz.: JL. Paralysis of the third nerve or that branch of it which supplies the levator palpebrse. 2. Direct injury, e. g. a blow on the upper eyelid, or a wound involving the levator palpebrse. 3. Some congenital defect, e. y. non-development of the levator palpebrae. 4. In old subjects a slight degree of drooping of the upper eyelid is sometimes seen, apparently the result of simple relaxation and redundancy of integument. 217. The muscles of the eyelids, orbicularis, and ^'^^'^3°°^ , levator palpebrae, may become the seat of spasmodic or ^'''s- paralytic affections. 1. Paralysis of levator palpehrcs, causing drooping of Levator the upper eyelid or ptosis (216), is generally the result i"'''"''"*- of paralysis of the third nerve, or of that branch of it which supplies the muscle. 2. Sjjosm of levator paipehres, csbVLsing the uj^per eye-128 EEGIONAL SURGERY lid to he drawn upwards, witli inability to close tte eye is a condition very rarely met with as the result of some irritation, either central or reflex. p. Orbicularis. 3^ Paralysis of orbicularis, causing inability to close the eye, is due to paralysis of the seventh or facial nerve. This condition is generally present in cases of facial palsy, the causes and symptoms of which have been described (58). Owing to the relaxed condition of the lower lid, slight entropion (212) and epiphora (224) are often present. 4. Spasm of orhicularis, " JBlepharospasm" leading to contraction and closure of the eyelids, may be either of a tonic or clonic character. a. Tonic contraction of the orbicularis, causing the eyelids to be firmly closed, is found in all conditions of the eye where intolerance of light is a prominent sym- ptom, e. ff. corneal ulceration, granular and purulent ophthalmia, &c. 6. Clonic contraction of the orbicularis, or " nictita- tion," causing a frequent or almost constant bliaking of the eyelids, is sometimes seen in nervous subjects. The spasm may be confined to the eyelids or may affect the muscles of the whole of the side of the face (cf. 59).CHAPTER XVII APFECTIONS OF THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS 218. The lachrymal gland may become the seat of iniammation of , 1 • ■ n ■ ''''^ Lachrymal acute or chrome inflammation, and in either case the Giand. process may go on to suppuration and the formation of an abscess ; the enlarged gland will form an unnatural projection at the upper and outer margin of the orbit, and when the swelling is extreme, the eyeball will be displaced downwards and inwards. If an abscess forms, fluctuation will be evident, and if unopened, the pus will generally make its way exter- nally, often discharging itself through the skin of the upper eyelid; in many cases a lachrymal fistula will result (220). 219. Cysts of the Lachrymal Gland—Bacnjops—due c>sts of Laciirv- to obstruction and distension of the ducts of the gland, "Dac'ySs.-- are sometimes seen; they usually present themselves as small, well-defined, elastic swellings in the situation of the gland, over which the skin is freely movable. In some cases they burst externally, giving rise to the formation of a fistulous opening in the upper eye- lid, through which there is a constant discharge of lachrymal secretion. 220. Small openings are sometimes seen in the outer Fistula of portion of the upper eyelid, leading down to the lachry- Gkidf™"' mal gland, and discharging a muco-purulent or clearish fluid. 9REGIONAL STTRGEEY 130 Tumours of Lacliryraal Gland. liiflummation of ' Uacryo- eystiiis." a. Mucocele. They may be the result of a penetratmg wound in- volving the gland, or of a lachrymal abscess (222), or cyst (219), which has burst externally. 221. The lachrymal gland is very rarely the seat of new growths of a sarcomatous or cancerous nature. The symptoms would be identical with those charac- teristic of tumours of the orbit (235), the situation of the tumour corresponding with the position of the gland, and causing displacement of the eyeball, usually in a forward, downward and inward direction. 222. Inflammation of the Lachrymal 8ac—Dacryo-cys- sac.^'"""'^"'^ titis—m&j be of an acute or a chronic nature, and is in the majority of cases secondary to obstruction of the nasal duct (228). When of a chronic nature, there will be increased lachrymation with distension of the sac, which will present itself as a more or less prominent sweUing, " Mucocele," beneath the sliin at the inner canthus; pressure upon the swelling will cause it to disappear more or less completely, its contents, which consist of a mucoid or muco-purulent secretion, being forced either downwards into the nose through the nasal duct, or upwards through the canaliculi. When of an acute character, going on to the forma- tion of a " Lachrymal abscess," there will be more pain, with redness and swelling of the parts around the sac; the lachrymal sac itself becomes tense and distended with pus, which generally discharges itself externally, making its may to the surface in most cases at a pomt iust below the tendo palpebrarum ; after the evacuation of the pus the opening may close, or a lachrymal fistula (215) may result. Distension of the frontal sinus (61) maybe mistaken for a distended lachrymal sac; in the latter case the Liaclirymal Abscess.V AFFECTIONS OF THE LACHRYMAL APPARATTJS 131 swelling -will be below, in tbe former case above, the level of the tendo oculi. 223. A small fistulous opening in the neighbourhood ^'^^^sac^"^""^" of the inner can thus, in many cases just below the tendo palpebrarum, leading down to the interior of the lachry- mal sac, and from which there is a constant dischai'ge of tears, often mixed with pus, is a Lachrymal fistula, the result in most cases of a lachrymal abscess (222) which has burst externally, and the opening of which has never completely closed. 224. EpipJiora, or overflow of tears over the margin Epiphora, of the eyelid on to the cheek, may be due to several causes, e.g.: 1. Hypersecretion, the result of overaction of the lachrymal gland. 2. Some defect or obstruction in the lachrymal apparatus, which interferes with the escape of the tears, e.g. a. Closure (226) or displacement (225) of the puncta. 6. Obstruction of the canaliculi (227). c. Inflammation of the lachrymal sac (222). d. Obstruction of the nasal duct from stricture, or the pressure of tumours (228). 225. Displacement of the Puncta may be due to several Displacement oi causes, e.g. Puncta. Ectropion (213). Entropion (212), Paralysis, or a relaxed condition of the orbicularis (217). Lippitudo (195). 226. Closure of the Puncta, partial or complete, may cioRureof be due to several causes, e.g. Puncta. The presence of some foreign body, e.g. a chalky con^ cretion, an eyelash, &c.1 132 EEGIONAIi STTEGEET Obstruction of Canaliculi. Obstruction of iKasal Duct. Inflammatory affections of tlie eyelids, e.g. tinea tarsi (195), hordeolum (197), abscess (198), ulceration (199), &c. Tumours of the eyelids (203). Cicatricial contraction in the case of wounds or ulceration involving the eyelids. 227. Obstruction of the CawaKcwZi may be produced by any of the same causes which give rise to displacement (226) or closure (226) of the puncta. 228. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct may be due to— 1. Stricture. Stricture, or closure of the nasal duct, partial or complete, is generally the result of chronic inflammatory thickening of the mucous and submucous tissue, or periosteum, lining the interior of the canal. This condition may arise idiopathically without any apparent cause, or as the result of injury; it may occur in strumous subjects, or as one of the evidences of con- stitutional syphilis; or as a consequence of periostitis or necrosis of the bones forming the walls of the duct. If a pf obe is passed along the duct, it will be arrested at the seat of obstruction, and, after the condition has existed for some time, inflammation of the lachrymal sac (222), with epiphora (224), will probably be pro- duced. 2. Mechanical pressure from tumours, springing from the antrum (103), interior of nose or base of skull (84), or from any adjacent part. ( IV CHAPTEE XVIII AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT 229. ExopJithalmos, or protrusion of the eyeball, may Exophthalmos, be due to any of the following causes: 1. Inflammation within the orbit, " orbital cellulitis " (230). 2. Abscess of the orbit (230). 3. Periostitis of the orbit (231). 4. Hsemorrhage into the orbit (233). 5. Emphysema of the connective tissue of the orbit (234). 6. Tumours of the orbit, either originating in its interior, or extending into it from without (235). 7. Affections of the lachrymal gland, either inflam- matory, or dependent upon the presence of new growths (218—221). 8. Distension of the frontal sinus (61). 9. Paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball, in conse- quence of which the globe drops forward and is rendered unduly prominent. 10. In Grraves' or Basedow's disease, " exophthalmic goitre" (257), protrusion of both eyeballs is generally a prominent symptom. 11. Enlargement of the eyeball itself, the result of inflammation and suppuration in its interior (ophthal- mitis), or dependent upon tumours or new growths commencing within the globe.134 REGIONAL SUEGEEY 12. Chronic hydroceplialus (34). Symptoms.—The degree of protrusion and direction in which the displacement takes place will depend upon the extent and nature of the disease; thus the globe may be displaced directly forwards, or in a lateral, or upward or downward direction. Double vision (diplo- pia) is often present; if the protrusion is so great that the eyeball is left uncovered by the eyelids, ulcera- tion and sloughing of the cornea may result, and, owing to displacement of the puncta, epiphora (224) is often produced. Orbital Ceiivuitis. 230. Orlital Cellulitis, or inflammation of the con- nective tissue of the orbit, may be produced as the • result of injury, e. g. blows on the eye, penetrating wounds, fractures involving the walls of the orbit, the presence of a foreign body &c.; or it may be excited, independently of any injury, as the result of extension of inflammation from any of the parts in the neighbour- hood of the orbit, e. g. erysipelas of the face or scalp. The inflammation may be either of an acute or a chronic character, and in many cases goes on to suppu- ration and the formation of an abscess. Deep-seated pain will be present, more or less acute, according to the severity of the symptoms. The eye- lids become red and swollen, with chemosis of the con- junctiva ; vision is affected, and there is protrusion of the eyeball, with limitation of its movements. Abscess. When suppuration occurs, the symptoms become more marked, and as the pus makes its way to the sur- face, fluctuation will be detected at the most prominent part of the swelling. When the abscess is of a chronic nature, suppuration taking place very slowly and without being attended by any pain, the condition may simulate very closely thatAFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT 135 produced by the presence of a tumour of the orbit, therefore in all cases when there is the slightest doubt, recourse should be had to exploratory puncture. 231. PeriostUis, when attacking the bones of the PencsHUs^ orbit, is generally of a chronic nature, and^ is, in the i- ci.ron.c. majority of cases, due to constitutional syphilis. The nodes or periosteal swellings which result usually present themselves as firm and painful swellings ; they may affect any of the four walls of the orbit, but their favourite situations are the inner portion of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and the superior and inferior margins of the orbit. When the swelling is of some size, and occurring at some depth within its cavity, protrusion of the eyeball may be produced, along with loss of vision consequent upon stretching of the optic nerve, and in many cases paralysis of some of the ocular muscles is also present. Syphilitic periostitis may be accompanied or followed by orbital cellulitis, which may go on to suppuration and the formation of an abscess, and in many cases, caries or necrosis of the subjacent bones will be pro- duced (232). The same result may follow softening and breaking down of a syphilitic node. In other cases the nodes may ossify and give rise to a syphilitic exostosis (236). In cases where the lachrymal bone or adjacent parts become affected, changes may occur in the lachrymal passages, giving rise to more or less complete obstruc- tion to the flow of tears (Epiphora, 224). Acute inflammation of the periosteum is sometimes 2. Acute, met with as the result of injury, e.gi. a penetrating wotmd of the orbit; or it may come on during an attack / of orbital cellulitis (230), as the result of extension of136 REGIONAL STJEGEET OrbitHl Hsemor- rliage. inflammation from the cellular tissue lining tlie orbit to the subjacent bone. This condition is characterised by symptoms very similar to those accompanying orbital cellulitis, but the pain is generally of a more severe character, and in many cases necrosis of a portion of the walls of the orbit is produced. Cries or Necro- 232. Caries or Necrosis of the walls of the orbit is generally the result of periostitis (231) or cellulitis (230), symptoms of which will generally have been pre- sent ; sinuses will generally be found at some point of the margin of the orbit, discharging pus, and leading down to dead and exposed bone. 233. Hemorrhage into the Orbit may be due to spon- taneous rupture of one of the blood-vessels in its interior, but in the majority of cases it is the result of injury, a>nd is associated with fracture either of its roof or some portion of its osseous walls. If the bleeding is considerable in amount, the eye- ball will be displaced forwards (229), and ecchymosis of the eyelids and ocular conjunctiva will also be pro- duced (201). 234. In fracture of the inner or upper wall of the orbit involving the nasal cavity or frontal sinus, air may make its way into the cellular tissue of the orbit and eyelids, and more or less protrusion of the eyeball may be produced. 235. Excluding the intraocular tumours {e.ff. glioma of retina, sarcoma of choroid, &c.), the tumours met with in the orbit may be divided into two great classes, viz. : 1. Those originating in the orhit itself, connected with either— Bone, e.g. exostosis (236), enchondroma (237), sar- coma (243). Oi'bital Enipliy seiiia. Tumours of orbit.AFFECTIONS OF THE OEBIT '^^'^ Timours of Oriit. Periosteum, e.g. nodes (usually syphilitic, 231), fibroma (238), sarcoma (243). Soft tissues of orbit, e.g. sebaceous cyst (207), gum- mata (239), sarcoma (243), carcinoma (243), hydatid cysts (240). Blood-vessels, e.ff. aneurism and pulsating tumours (241), naevus (242). Lachrymal gland, e.ff. inflammatory enlargement (218), new growths (221). 2, Those originating at some point external to the oriit, hut which in their growth have extended into the interior of that cavity (244). The general symptoms attending the presence of an orbital tumour will be as follows, varying of course in degree and severity according to the position and size of the swelling: protrusion of the eyeball (exoph- thalmos) (229), either directly forwards, or in an upward or downward, or lateral direction; limitation of the movements of the eyeball; interference with vision from pressure upon or stretching of the optic nei-ve; epiphora; eversion of the eyelids, and if the cornea is constantly exposed, ulceration and, sloughing of its surface will result. In cases of aneurism of the orbit (241) there will of course be an additional group of symptoms dependent upon the pulsatile nature of the swelling. 236. Exostoses, ivory or cancellous, are sometimes Exostosis, found springing from one of the walls of the orbit and projecting into its interior. They appear as hard, circumscribed, slowly-growing tumours, at times pe- dimculated, at others attached by a broad base. In some cases they may extend from the orbit and involve neighbouring cavities, e.g. antrum, frontal sinuses. (Cf. Leontiasis ossea (33 c), Diffused osteoma (108).Tumourt oj Orbit. Enchoudroma. Fibroma. 138 EEGIONAIi STTEGEET Grummata. Hydatid Cysts. Aneurism. An exostosis is sometimes the result of ossification of a syphilitic node (231). 237. Bnchondromata are of much rarer occurrence, but would present somewhat similar symptoms. 238. Fibrous Tumours are sometimes met with springing from the periosteum of the bones of the orbit. They may be distinguished by their slow growth, firm consistence, and intimate connection with the subjacent bone, with which they are usually con- nected by a broadish base. 239. Deposits of Gummatous matter may occur in the cellular tissue of the orbit, independently of or in con- nection with syphilitic periostitis (231), producing almost identical symptoms. 240. Hydatid Cysts are sometimes met with in the interior of the orbit as soft, well-defined, fluctuating tumours, causing in many cases protrusion of the eye- ball. On exploratory puncture, the clear, thin, watery character of the fluid, which often contains the heads or booklets of the echinococci, will reveal the nature of the swelling. 241. Under the term "Aneurism of the Orhit," " Pul- sating Ikomour of Orhit," " Vascular protrusion of Eyeball" are included several very different conditions, which are characterised, however, by somewhat similar symptoms, viz. in addition to those already described as peculiar to tumours of the orbit (235), there is pulsation of the eyeball, sometimes perceptible to the eye, but almost always to be detected by the finger. In some cases there is a distinct or circumscribed, pulsating swelling, affecting, only a limited portion of the orbit, while in other cases the pulsation is general, afi'ecting all parts of it. On auscultation over the eyebrow or orbit, a distinctAFrECTIONS OF THE OEBIT Tumours of Orbit. bruit is often audible; singing in tbe ears is often present; the patient generally complains of a whizzing noise in the head, and more or less pain in the orbit. On stooping down, or on any exertion, the symptoms are all increased in severity, while on compressing the common carotid artery on the same side they are di- minished, the pulsation being arrested, and the protru- sion of the eyeball more or less completely disap- pearing. These symptoms may be due to several different con- ditions, viz ;— 1. Aneimsm, true or false, of the ophthalmic artery, or one of its branches—where the sac is formed by one or more of the coats of the vessel. 2. Consecutive or diffused aneurism —where one of the arteries of the orbit, or the sac of an aneurism (true or false), having given way, extravasation of blood has taken place, and the sac is formed by condensation of the surrounding tissue. This is the most frequent form of orbital aneurism, and is generally due to an injury affecting the orbit or side of the head; when the result of injury, the tumour generally shows itself somewhat suddenly, and the patient is often sensible of something having given way, a kind of snap or crack being felt, along with a sudden attack of pain in the orbit. 3. Erectile tumours—of the nature of cirsoid aneurism and aneuri&m by anastomosis (7)—where the tumour is made up of a mass of tortuous and dilated arteries and capillaries packed together. 4. Arterio-venous aneurism—i.e. a communication between the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus ; in these cases, which are of very rare occurrence, theTumours of Orhit. REGIONAL SUEGEEY 140 Ifaevus. Malignant Growths. Extra-orbital Tumours aud Swellings. condition is due simply to a dilated and pulsating vein. 5. Compression of the ophthalmic vein.—In some cases in which all the symptoms of orbital aneurism have been present during life, nothing has been found after death beyond compression of the ophthalmic vein as it lea,ves the cavity of the orbit by an aneurism of the internal carotid artery, or by a thrombus in the cavernous sinus. 242. Venous Ncevi, generally of congenital origin, are often met with in the neighbourhood of the orbit; they may be situated deeply in its interior, or superficially near its margin, and in the latter case they often extend to and implicate the eyelids (205). If superficial, a nsevus usually presents itself as a softish, ill-defined, elastic swelling, of a somewhat bluish colour, devoid of pulsation, compressible, and becoming harder and more tense during violent expiratory efforts. If situated deeply the diagnosis will be more difficult, protrusion of the eyeball, increased on forced expiration, being the most prominent symptom. 243. Malignant Growths, of a sarcomatous or cancerous nature, springing from the bones, periosteum, or soft tissues, are sometimes found in the interior of the orbit; they are characterised by their rapid growth, ill-defined outline, and speedy implication both of the eyeball itself and adjacent parts. 244. The Tumours or Swellings originating at some point external to the orbit and secondarily involving tlmt cavity include— 1. Affections of the upper jaw and antrum, e. g. tu- mours of the janr and antrum (103), hydrops antri (104), suppuration of the antrum (110), &c. 2. Affections of the frontal sinus (61).AFFECTIONS OF THE ORBIT 141 ^.^.^.^yaal Tumours and 3. Tumours of the nasal fossae, e.g. fibrous or sarco- matous polypi (84), cancerous polypi (84). Cf. naso- orbital tumour (84). 4. Tumours connected with the base of the skull, temporal fossae, or any adjacent part. In all these cases careful examination of the adjacent parts, and an inquiry into the history of the case, will reveal the fact that the orbit was only secondarily in- volved, as a result of extension of the growth or swell- ing into its interior from without. The symptoms when its cavity is involved will be the same as in the case of tumours originating in its interior (235), preceded of course by evidence of disease in some adjacent part.CHAPTER XIX AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK Tumours and Swellings of Neck. Affections of Lym- phatic Glands. 1. Inflamma- tory, a. Acute Adeuitis. 245. In tlie following table (p. 144) the tumours or swellings commonly met with in the region of the neck are mentioned: 246. Enlargement, or Swelling, of the Lymphatic Glands may be due to simple inflammatory causes, as in the case of simple adenitis, acute or chronic; or, it may be of a malignant nature, and due to the presence of new growths, as in the case of carcinoma or sarcoma attack- ing these structures. 247. Acute or Subacute Adenitis, or inflammation of the glands of the neck, may occur from exposure to cold, or without any apparent cause, but in many cases some perceptible source of irritation will be found in the parts where many of the lymphatic vessels com- mence, as, for example, in the mouth and throat, or on the face or scalp ; in the case of children, it not uncom- monly follows one of the exanthemata, e.g. measles and scarlet fever, as the result, no doubt, of irritation pro- pagated from the nose or pharynx, which are usually found involved in these affections. The affected gland, or glands, will be more or less painful, enlarged and perceptible beneath the skin, and tender to the touch; if the cause of irritation is re- moved, the inflammation will probably subside at thisAFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 143 j^^ ^Hons of Lym- phutic Glands. stage, or it may go on to suppuration and the formation of an abscess (256). 248. Chronic Adenitis, or inflammation of the glands *■ pi'^omc of the neck, is a very common affection, being often met Simple, with in children of a strumous or feeble constitution, in some cases without any apparent cause ; in other cases as the result of some local irritation, e.g. pediculi on the scalp, affections of the ear, carious teeth, enlarged ton- sils, chronic inflammation of the glandular follicles at the back of the pharynx, or of the mucous lining of the nasal fossae. This condition, which is often described as " Strumous strumous. adenitis," usually manifests itself as an indolent and slightly painful enlargement of the glands, most com- monly of those beneath the jaw or along the border of the sterno-mastoid. The affected glands may become fused together, but more commonly they remain isolated from one another, forming swellings, often unattended after a time by any pain or tenderness, more or less hard, and of uniform consistence, freely movable and rolling under the finger, the overlying skia being non- adherent and unaffected. The glands may remain in this condition for a con- siderable period and resolution may then take place, or, more commonly, they bi-eak down and suppurate, giving rise to the formation of an abscess (256). Senile scrofula.* Enlargement of the lymphatic" Senile Scro- glandg of the neck, the result of chronic inflammatory * changes, is sometimes met with in individuals advanced in life, who are the subjects of " senile sci*ofula," This condition may be generally diagnosed from pri- mary malignant disease of the glands (249, 251), with * Paget, * Cliniciil Lectures.'REGIONAL SURGERY 144 CO O C4 o GO C3 C5 OQ 02 Ph Q flog J -2 o CO ^« o ^ CO ^"11 o -e M <5 <1 3^ 1—I Ti Pi c3 1—( 02 O o o d o pi 0. P! O Pi o Co us s oAFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 146 /—s 05 <» ^^^^ ^ r ^ OS %146 EEGIONAL SXTEGERY Affections of Lym- phatic Gland}. — wHcli it is in fhe early stage very liable to be mistaken, by attention to the following points. In scrofula the affected glands remain freely mov- able, forming no deep attachments ; they remain sepa- rate from one another, and are of softish consistence ; their rate of growth is generally very slow; there is an absence of much, if any, pain; inflammatory symptoms may be entirely absent, or there may be some tender- ness on pressure, with external redness often of a dusky colour, and slight increase of local temperature; the lower cervical glands are most frequently involved in senile scrofula, while malignant disease usually attacks 1 those at the upper part of the neck. The patient will perhaps have been the subject of scrofulous affections during early life, and on inquiry it will probably be found that other members of the family have suffered from similar symptoms; or there will perhaps be a history of phthisis. Of course, when, as is often the case, the glands break down and suppu- rate, the diagnosis will be evident. In constitutional syphilis, often as a part of a general glandular infection, the suboccipital glands, those lying over the sterno-mastoid just below the ear, or those along the anterior margin of the trapezius, may become slightly enlarged and indurated; this condition, which is of a painless nature, and usually involves both sides of the neck, never goes on to suppuration. 249. Lymphadenoma, or " HodgUn's Disease," is the Syphilitic. 2. New ^'itha. term applied to a gradual enlargement of the lym- ■deioma. ^^^^^ gi^nds, which at first may be confined to a single group, as, for example, those of the neck, but which after a time tends to become generalised, the different groups of glands throughout the body be- coming subsequently more or less involved. ThisAFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 147 jffccl.ionsof.LyM- phatic Glands. condition is often associated with enlargement of the spleen and development of lymphatic growths in internal organs, but differs from leucocythsemia, with which affection it appears to be closely allied, in the fact that the white corpuscles of the blood are not notably increased in number. The glands, as they more or less rapidly increase in size, may remain separate from each other, or becoming confluent, form large lobulated tumours, which present a smooth surface and are generally of a softish, semi- elastic consistence; at first they are freely movable beneath the skin and upon subjacent parts, but as the disease progi'esses they become fixed, owing to infiltra- tion of surrounding structures, often running a course, if the patient lives long enough, very similar to that seen in cases of lymphosarcoma (251) ; in fact, " Hodg- kin's disease" might be described as a very generalised form of lymphosarcoma. 250. Carcinoma may attack the lymphatic glands of *• Caicmoma the neck as a •primary affection in the form of epithe- lioma, scirrhus, or encephaloid cancer, but this is of very rare occurrence;* in the majority of cases it is of a secondary nature, being consecutive to carcinoma attacking some neighbouring part, as, for example, epithelioma of the tongue, lip, mucous lining of the cheek, tonsil, or oesophagus; in the case of cancer of the breast, the glands at the root of the neck above the clavicle often become secondarily affected. The affected glands rapidly enlarge, forming an irre- gular, ill-defined, and nodulated tumour, of hard, and in some cases of almost stony consistence ; as the sur- rounding tissues become involved, the tumour becomes fixed and immovable, and the skin covering it becoming * Dreschfeld, ' Brit. Med. Journal,' ]881, voi. i, p, 7.148 REGIONAL SUEGEEY Jffectionsqf Lym- phatic Glands. adherent often gives way at one or more points, giving rise to the formation of a foul ulcer, with indurated, everted, and thickened edges (274). This condition, which is generally accompanied hy considerable pain, usually occurs at a much later period of life than the simple inflammatory affections of the glands, being very rarely met with before middle age. c. Lympho- 251. Sarcoma, originating in the lymphatic glands of saico d. jyQQ^^ appears as a rapidly growing tumour of soft and elastic or, at times, somewhat firmish consistence, which soon infiltrating surrounding tissues becomes fixed and immovable. Tumours of this nature are of an especially malignant nature, running a rapid course, and being soon followed by secondary deposits in the lungs and other internal organs. They not uncommonly occur in young subjects, often about puberty, and are therefore in the early stage not unlikely to be mistaken for chronic adenitis (248), from which they may be dis- tinguished by attention to the following points, though until the disease is somewhat advanced the diagnosis is often very difficult and in some cases almost impos- sible. Dingnosis jn lymphosarcoma, there is usually no evident cause Adeuitis. of irritation, nor signs of the strumous diathesis; the affected glands soon become fused together, not remain- ing isolated and distinct from one another ; there is no tendency to suppuration ; the tumour rapidly enlarging soon becomes fixed and perfectly immovable ; it is not distinctly circumscribed, infiltrating and merging into surrounding parts; the skin covering it soon becomes discoloured and adherent, and often ulcerating gives way, the growth then projecting as a fungatiug mass; more pain is complained of; more serious pressureAFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 149 effects are produced; marked cachexia is soon present; treatment has no effect. 252. Jlygroma, or "Hydrocele of the Nechr is the Cy«t^cT™rs. term given to a cystic tumour found in the neck, usually congenital, but in some cases occurring in after life ; it may consist of a single cyst, but more commonly, and especially when congenital, it is polycystic, consisting of solid matter (usually fibrous), and numerous small cavities which usually communicate freely with one another; in some cases, the solid matter may predomi- nate, and the swelling may then feel solid to the touch. The congenital form of tumour appears to be of the nature of a lymphangioma, the cystic cavities contained in its interior being formed by dilatation of lymph spaces, which are filled with lymph alone, or a mixture of blood and lymph. This form of hygroma is sometimes associated with macroglossia or hypertrophy of the tongue (146), the enlargement of the latter organ, under these circum- stances, being due to the same cause, viz. the dilatation of the lymph-spaces contained in its substance. The position of the tumour in one of the triangles of the neck, its superficial situation and its translucency in the case of a simple cyst, its more or less well-defined outline and sense of fluctuation, and, in the majority of cases, its congenital nature, will usually render the diagnosis easy. Scematocele. is the term given to a hydrocele of the .< Hremato- neck when haemorrhage from rupture of blood-vessels has taken place into its interior. 253. In addition to the ordinary form, situated super- ficially (269), "Deep sebaceous cysts" are sometimes found ^- ^^'^^ in the anterior triangle of the neck above the level of the ^^''^150 EEGIONAIj stjegeet Cystic Tumours. 3. Bursal Cysts. 4. Hydatid Cysts. Abscess. omo-hyoid muscle, lying at a distance from the surface beneath the deep cervical fascia, and not unfrequently adherent to the sheath of the large vessels in this region. They are recognised by their deep attachments, and smooth and rounded or oval shape, by the imperfect pulsation they of ten receive from the subjacent carotid vessels, and by the sense of deep-seated fluctuation, often perceptible on placing one finger in the mouth and the other outside upon the skin over them. 254. Bi(,rsal Cysts, appearing as superficial, fluctuating tumours, of rounded shape and smooth surface, moving with the larynx during deglutition, are sometimes found in the anterior part of the neck, the result of enlarge- ment of one of the bursse which are normally found to exist in front of the pomum Adami, and between the posterior surface of the hyoid bone and the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. 255. Sydatid Cysts are sometimes met with in the region of the neck; they usually present themselves as tense, globular, elastic swellings, sometimes semi-trans- parent, varying in size, and containing in their interior a clear, thin, watery, non-albuminous fluid, in which will be often found the booklets and heads of the echinococci. 256. Abscess is often found in the region of the neck in connection with strumous or other forms of inflam- mation of the cervical glands (246), caries of the cer- vical vertebrse (304), necrosis of cartilages of larynx (320), some local source of irritation, e.g. pediculi; in other cases it appears wilbout any apparent cause, simply in connection with a low state of health. When of an acute character, its formation is attended by the usual signs of inflammation, viz. pain, heat, red-AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 151 Abscess. ness of the integuments, more or less sWHng, and, as suppuration takes place, and the pus approaches the surface, fluctuation will be evident. When of a cJiromc nature, as is usually the case when due to strumous adenitis, suppuration takes place very slowly, and the pus often widely undermining the skin and superjacent tissues is slow in pointing and coming to the surface. When the ahscess has hurst and discharged its con- tents, the cavity does not in many cases readily close, and, as a result, a sinus, or so-called " strumous ulcer," is left hehird (272). In cases where suppuration takes place at a consider- able distance from the surface beneath the deep fascia, giving rise to the formation of a " dee;p cervical abscess" the pus being bound down and unable to discharge itself externally, may burst into the trachea or cesophagus, or make its way into the pleural cavity or anterior medi- astinum, and a fatal result may ensue from one of these complications or from general blood poisoning. When thus affected, the side of the neck becomes hot, swollen, brawny and cedematous; the swelling, which is ill-defined, is tender on pressure, and pain is generally produced on any movement of the head; there may be but slight redness of the superjacent in- teguments, and owing to the pus being bound down by the deep fascia, fluctuation is often absent or very in- distinct, deglutition and respiration may be more or less interfered with owing to pressure upon the oesophagus and trachea, and severe constitutional disturbance is often present. 257. The Thyroid Gland is subject to various forms Brouckoceie. of enlargement, to which the term BroncTiocele or "Goitre" is generally applied. Simple hroncJiocele.—^Inthis affection there is a simple i. Simple.152 Bronchocele. REGIONAI, SUEGEET 2. Cystic. S. Pulsating. hypertrophy of the thyroid gland, which may attain a considerable size, so as to form a prominent swelling in the fore part of the neck. Both lobes are generally in- volved in this general enlargement, which is most com- monly met with in young females, and is often associated with some menstrual irregularity. In its severer forms this affection is endemic, in this country prevailing especially in Derbyshire, hence it is sometimes termed " Derbyshire necK" In rare instances, a simple bronchocele may undergo calcareous degenera- tion, and inflammatory changes may subsequently be excited, leading to the formation of an abscess. The shape of the swelling and its situation corre- sponding with that of the gland or one of its lobes, its slow growth, its very frequent occurrence in females, and its movement with the larynx during degluti- tion, will usually assist in the diagnosis of this affec- tion. Cystic hronchocele.—In this form of enlargement, the hypertrophy of the gland is accompanied by the forma- tion of cystic cavities in its interior, containing a viscid or thin and watery fluid; the cysts may be multiple and of small size, or few in number and under these circum- stances of large dimensions. Pulsating Bronchocele, Uasophthalmic Goitre; Graves* or Basedow's disease, are terms applied to a pulsating enlargement of the thyroid body, in which the hyper- trophy of the gland, not usually very great, is accom- panied by dilatation of its blood-vessels. The gland, which is enlarged and somewhat softish, pulsates synchronously with the carotid artery; it is generally associated with palpitation of the heart, marked pulsation in the vessels of the neck, and prominence of the eyeballs, or " exophthalmos."AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 163 „ , , Bronchoeele. For the diagnosis of this affection from carotid aneurism, with which it may be confounded, cf. (259). Acute bronchoeele is a rare affection in which the *• gland undergoing a rapid enlargement attains a consider- able size in the course of a few weeks. Malignant bronchoeele.—Carcinoma and sarcoma may 5. Malignant, attack the thyroid gland, but are of very rare oc- currence. 258. A circumscribed tumour in the course of one of Cervical Aneu- ,-, , . rism. the large arteries or at the root of the neck, more or less compressible, exhibiting pulsation of an excentric or ex- pansile character, with well-marked bruit perceptible when the ear is' placed over it, is probably an aneurism connected with the carotid, subclavian, or innominate arteries, or perhaps springing from the arch of the aorta. 259. An aneurism of the carotid artery is generally CarotidAneurism. situated near its bifurcation, the upper portion of the vessel being affected much more commonly than the lower one. Aneurism of the upper portion of the carotid artery usually presents itself as a small, well-defined ovoid tumour, with distinct, expansile pulsation and well- marked bruit; compression of the vessel below the tumour suspends both pulsation and bruit, and at the same time it becomes soft and diminished in size ; on withdrawing the pressure, the tumour refills in a certain number of beats. As it increases in size, from pressure upon the pharynx, oesophagus and larynx, deglutition and respiration become interfered with, and as a result of interference with the supply of blood to the head cerebral symptoms may be produced, e.g. giddiness, im- paired vision, noises in the ear, &c.154 BEGIONAL SURGEET Carotid Anevrism. Diagnosis mours. Aneurism of tlie secondary carotids, more commonly tlie internal, is sometimes found ; while of the hranches of the external carotid, the temporal artery is the one most frequently involved, usually as the result of injury. Diagnosis—The principal affections with which a carotid aneurism is liable to be confounded are glandular or other tumours,abscess,andenlargementsof the thyroid gland. When situated at the root of the neck, it may be confounded with an innominate, subclavian, or aortic aneurism. For the chief points of diagnosis between these varieties, cf. (261). 1. Glandular or Glandular or other tumours may be distinguished by the solid, and, in many cases, irregular or nodulated character of the swelling; the nature of the pulsation, which, if transmitted, is a simple heaving up and down of the tumour and not of an expansile character ; the possibility of raising the tumour more or less completely from the subjacent artery, when the pulsation will cease; the absence of any diminution in the size of the swellmg on compression of the vessel below; and the fact that, upon the removal of pressure from the vessel below, the pulsation returns in the tumour at the fii'st renewed beat of the artery as strongly as ever, (and not only after a certain number of beats, as in the case of an aneurism), will usually assist in distinguishing a glandular or other tumour lying over the large blood-vessels from an aneurism affecting the upper part of the carotid artery. . ., Abscess —The presence of distinct fluctuation, its more rapid formation, the absence of expansile pulsation and of any diminution in the size of the swelling on compres- sion of the vessel below, a history or the presence of symptoms of inflammation, more or less marked, along 2. Abscess.AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 155 (jg^fotii Aneurism. witli perhaps a reddened condition of the integuments covering it, will in most cases serve to distinguisli a simple abscess lying over the vessels from a carotid aneurism. BroncUcele.—ln cases where one lobe only of the 3. Bronchoceie. thyroid gland is enlarged, extending laterally over the carotid artery and having pulsation transmitted to it, or in cases of pulsating bronchoceie (267), where the swelling pulsates by virtu^ of its own inherent vascu- larity, the diagnosis, which at first may appear some- what difficult, can usually be made by attention to the following points : 1. Though one of the lobes may be chiefly involved in bronchoceie, yet the isthmus is always more or less enlarged. 2. In bronchoceie the mesial portion of the tumour is that which is most firmly fixed ; while in aneurism it is the most external portion, viz. that which lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. 3. During deglutition the enlarged gland moves with the larynx ; in the case of aneurism, the tumour remains immovable. 4. If a bronchoceie is raised up from the subja- cent vessels, the pulsation which it exhibits more or less completely ceases; this is not the case in aneurism. 260. An Aneurism at the Boot of the Neck may be con- Aneunsm^at Root nected with the carotid, subclavian, or innominate arteries, or possibly with the arch of the aorta ; in the following table are laid down the main points of dis- tinction between the three first varieties, but in many cases, unless the condition comes under observation at an early period, it is impossible to determine with which vessel the aneurism is connected.REGIONAL SaBGEET 156 261. Diagnosis of Carotid, Subclavian, and Innominate Aneurism. Diagnosis of Caro- tid, Subclavian, and Innominate Aneurism. Situation of tumour in early stage Shape . Bruit . Pulse . Upper ex- tremity- Carotid. Between sternal and clavicular origins of ster- no-mastoid Elongated more vertically than transversely Propagated more along neck than to- wards arm Diminished in vessels of head and neck onthe same side; ra- dial pulse usu- ally unaffect- ed, unless tu- mour of large size pressing on subclavian ar- tery Not usually af- fected. Subclavian. External to clavi- cular origin of sterno-mastoid, in posterior and inf erior triangle of neck Innominate. More elongated transversely Propaarated more along arm than towards neck Not affected in vessels of head and neck on same side, un- less tumour of large size pres- sing on carotid artery. Radial pulse weakened or absent Often painful and cedematous from pressure on bra- chial plexus and subclavian vein Behind sternum, or at inner border of sternal origin of steruo-mastoid, often displacing inner end of clavicle; often forms a promi- nence above ster- num,and between the sternal at- tachments of the two sterno-mas- toids. Generally globular. Best heard behind sternum; may be absent. Weakened in both r. carotid and subclavian arte- ries ; may be en- tirely absent in r. radial. Often painful and cedematous on right side. Aneurism of Arch of Aorta. 262. An Aneurism springing from the Arch of the Aorta may appear at the root of the neck, behind orAFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 157 even above the upper margin of the sternum, and may then simulate an innominate or carotid aneurism, but there will generally be a more general bulging of the chest walls, a larger area of dulness on percussion be- hind the sternum, and usually more serious pressure effects. 263. Arterio-venous Aneurism is the term applied to ^'^^Ane'urism"^ an abnormal communication between an artery and a vein, the result either of injury or disease. It comprises two different conditions, viz. : Aneiirismal varix—when the artery and vein directly communicate. Varicose aneurism—when the artery and vein do not directly communicate, but an aneurismal sac is formed between the two, into which the blood passes after leaving the artery, and before entering the vein. Aneurismal varix of carotid artery and jugular vein Aneurismal may occur as the result of wounds in the neck involving these vessels; it shows itself as a soft, oblong, some- what irregular, compressible tumour, and if situated near the surface, the skin covering it will be of a bluish colour; it exhibits pulsation, but not of the distinct expansive character peculiar to a true aneurism; on auscultation a loud rasping bruit can be heard; if the carotid artery is compressed below, the pulsation will cease, and the tumour can be partially emptied of blood. Varicose aneurism involving these vessels is a condi- tion so rare as to be almost unknown. 264. Induration of the Sterno-mastoid muscle is some- Affections of times found in new-born children, appearing usually a l^'intoation'"' few days after birth; this condition is by some believed °^ humour, to be due to congenital syphilis, but in the majority of cases it appears to be the result of injury or rupture of the fibres of the muscle, as it is generally found to beAffections of . REGIONAL RTJRGEET —" ' ' associated with difficult or instnimeutal laljours, and as a rule disappears without any specific treatment. When occurring in adults, it is usually of a syphilitic nature, the result either of an interstitial inflammation or gummatous deposits (which may appear as distinct tiiniours) in the substance of the muscle; the gummy tumours are most frequently situated in the lower por- tion of the muscle near its sternal attachment, ^'or w"k. 265. Torticollis or Wry-necTc—In this deformity which is due to contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the head is twisted, so tha.t the ear is approximated to the sternal extremity of the clavicle of the affected side, while the chin is turned in the opposite direction (i.e. towards the opposite shoulder). The affected muscle is contracted and shortened, usually standing out prominently beneath the skin. This condition may be due to several causes, i.e. Congenital; in the majority of cases, torticollis is due to congenital causes, coming on shortly after birth, though it may not attract attention for some time. Caries of cervical vertebrae ; in these cases, evidence of disease in the spine will be found on examination (304), the contraction of the muscle being due to reflex irritation. Some source of irritation ; e.g. worms, inflammation of the cervical glands, &c. Hysteria; this form is usually found in young un- married females, who will be found to present other evidences of hysteria; under these circumstances the contraction is not constant, often disappearing for a time. Exposure to cold, muscular rheumatism, syphilitic infiltration (264), &c. 3 Spnamodic 266 In Spasmodic Torticollis the spasm is not con- Torticollia. 'AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK 169 stant, but is of a clonic character, producing a convul- sive to-and-fro movement of the head, which never ceases, except for brief intervals, while the patient is awake; in many cases other muscles are also involved, e.g. the trapezius, scaleni and deep muscles of the neck. This affection, which is always very intractable, is probably dependent upon some central irritation pro- pagated along the spinal accessory nerve. 267. The nape of the neck, or just below, between the buncle. shoulders, is a favourite situation of anthrax or carbuncle, a localised, but slowly-spreading inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. It usually commences as a flattened, but shghtly elevated, indurated swelling, with dusky redness of the skin covering it, attended from the first with consider- able pain; as it gradually increases in size, the skin gives way at various points, and numerous sloughs are exposed, which are always slow in separating. The swelling is usually about two inches in diameter, but in some cases it may attain much larger dimensions, e.g. five or six inches. The constitutional symptoms attending this affection are usually of a low type, and when occurring in those suffering from exhausting diseases, or in a low state of health, the prognosis is often very unfavorable. A carbuncle is distinguished from a boil or furun- culus by its much larger size, its dusky redness, its broad flattened character, the multiplicity of the sloughs, and their deeper and more extensive character, the small amount of discharge, the severe constitu- tional disturbance often present, and the special con- ditions under which it appears. 268. Lijjomata, or Fatty Tumours, are not uncommonly Lipoma, found in the neighbourhood of the back of the neck or160 EEGIONAL SUEGEET Lipoma, shoulders, appearing as slowly-growing, soft, semi- elastic swellings; often distinctly lobulated and in some cases reaching large dimensions ; they are usually unattended by any pain, and seldom give rise to much inconvenience unless from their size. When the skin is moved over a fatty tumour, or if its base is compressed so as to make the skin tense over it, slight dimpling is often produced, owing to the skin being more closely attached and bound down to the interspaces between the lobules of the tumour than to other parts. These growths are liable to few degenerations, and are of an innocent nature, not recurring after removal; a curious fact in connection with them is that they occasionally shift their position, slowly travelling to some distance from their original situation. They may be diagnosed from chronic abscess, with which they are liable to be mistaken, by the absence of fluctuation, their soft solid feel, their lobulated surface, the dimpling of the skin over them, and their slow growth ; in some cases, when the diagnosis is difficult, recourse to exploratory puncture may be required. The neck is sometimes the seat of the diffused fatty tumour, an ill-defined, non-encapsuled outgrowth of adipose tissue, which, without constituting a distinct disease, may give rise to considerable deformity, this condition may affect any part of the neck^ and when attacking the front often gives rise to the so- called " double-chin," SeiiaceouB Cyst. 269. Sehaceous Cysts are not uncommonly met with about the back of the neck and shoulders, presenting characters very similar to those described as occurring on the scalp (6). They may be distinguished from lipomata by their161 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK more distinct and regular outline, with absence of lobu- lation ; their more intimate connection with the skin, which does not glide over them ; their more elastic feel, aaid, as a rule, their smaller size ; the presence in some cases, of a black speck on their surface, indicating the orifice of an obstructed hair-follicle, and through which sebaceous matter can be forced out; the absence of dimpling when the base of the tumour is compressed, though slight dimpling maybe produced when an attempt is made to raise the skin from the tumour. 270. The nape of the neck is a favourite situation for Eruption on Nape the early syphilitic eruptions, e.g. the papular and squa- mous syphilides, and in many cases the rash will be found to extend round the margin of the scalp and forehead, giving rise to the so-called " corona veneris." 271. Owing to the non-closure of the cavity of an Sinus, abscess in the neck (256), a sinus or narrow channel may result, burrowing for a considerable distance beneath the skin, discharging a thin, unhealthy, purulent fluid, and having its orifice usually concealed by a mass of projecting granulations. 272. As the result of suppuration, in or around the s^™mo"s uicera- lymphatic glands in strumous subjects, ulcers are often formed of a very chronic and intractable character. They may be single, or appear in groups, and are generally somewhat irregular in shape ; their edges, on a level with the surrounding surface, or very slightly thickened, are usually much undermined, and the sur- rounding skin is congested and of a dusky or purple colour ; the surface of the ulcer is uneven and covered with large flabby granulations, which often project above the level of the skin and discharge a thin, curdy, un- healthy pus. 11EEGIONAIi STJRGEET 162 Strumous Scars. Cancerous Ulcerdtiou. Rodent Ulcer. fistulous Open- ings iu Neck. 1. Simple Siuus. 2. Aerial Fistula. 3. Pharyngeal and CEsoplia- Ijcal I'istula. 273. The cicatrix, which is left after healing has taken place in the case of stmmous ulceration of the neck (or indeed in the case of any slowly healing wound), is usually somewhat deep coloured, dense, thick, heaped-up, puckered, and cord-like, being raised above the level of the surrounding integument in the form of little ridges or tongues of skin. 274. The cancerous ulcer is sometimes seen in the neck, in cases where the lymphatic glands having be- come affected with carcinoma (250), the skin covering them has also become infiltrated and the seat of ulcera- tion* The appearance of the ulcer, formed under these cir- cumstances, is always very characteristic; its base is generally irregular, discharging a fetid, sanious pus, its edges are raised, everted, and considerably thick- ened, while the STirrounding integuments are much in- durated. This form of ulceration usually occurs at a much later period of life than the strumous (272), and on ex- amination evidence of carcinoma will generally be found in some neighbouring part. 275. Rodent Ulcer is sometimes found attacking the neck, presenting an appearance similar to that described (p. 34). 276. Fistulous Openings in the NecJc may be due to several different causes. 1. Simple sinuses, due to the non-closure of the cavity of an abscess, are often seen (271). 2. Aerial fistulce, viz. communications with the larynx or trachea, are sometimes found, as the result of wounds involving the air-passages (282). 3. Pharyngeal and oesophageal fistulce, viz. commu- ■ nications with the pharynx oi' oesophagus, are rarely163 AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK. seen as the result of wounds involving the food-pas- sages (282). 4. Branchial fisMcs, viz, narrow canals or channels, present at birth, opening externally by minute orifices, and running backwards towards the pharynx or oeso- phagus, with which they rarely communicate, are some- times seen. The external openings of the fistula, of which there may be more than one, sometimes two or three, are generally situated along the anterior border • of the sterno-mastoid muscle, more commonly just above the sterno-clavicular articulation.* These fistulous channels, which often secrete a clear, mucoid fluid, appear to be due to incomplete closure of the branchial clefts or fissures which are present during early foetal life ; they are often found associated with some other deformity, e.g. malformations of the external ear (328), macrostoma (94), &c. 277. Emphysema of the neck, due to the presence of Emphysema, air in the subcutaneous connective tissue, gives rise to a puffy swelling, soft and compressible, communicating to the finger pressed upon it a peculiar cracking sensa- tion. This condition may be due to several causes, viz.: 1. Extension of the same condition from the face (68), or chest, where there has been fracture of the ribs with injury to the lung. 2. Wounds of the neck involving the air-passages, when the external wound is small, or does not corre- spond in position with that in the larynx or trachea (278). 8. Injuries to the neck involving the air-passages, but without any external wound, e. g. fracture of the * Paget,' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. Ixi.164 REGIONAL STJEGBET cartilages of the larynx (285), rupture of the trachea (286), rupture of oesophagus (194). 4. Ulceration of the cartilages of the larynx or trachea, leading to perforation, and allowing of the escape of air into the surrounding tissues (318). 5. Fractures of the base of the skull involving the mastoid cells (38). Cicatricial Con- 277 a. When cicatrisatiou takes place in the case of lowing Burns, burns about the neck, there is often a tendency for the chin to be drawn down towards the sternum, as a con- sequence of which considerable deformity is often pro- duced ; in many cases, eversion of the lower lip and immobility of the jaw also result. It not unfrequently happens that the cicatrices of burns in this situation become the seat of keloid (of Alibert) tumours (70),CHAPTEE XX INJURIES OF THE NECK 278. Wotmds of the Throat are, in tlie majority of Wounds cases, of suicidal origin; tliey may be divided into two great classes, viz.: Superficial, involving tlie skin alo?ie, or skin and superficial structures. Deep, involving the large blood-vessels, pharynx, ceso- pbagus, or some portion of the air-passages, e.g. larynx or trachea. In some cases, all the soft parts may be divided down to the spinal column, and when the wound is situated at the back of the neck, the cord itseK and its membranes may be divided ; under these cir- cumstances the symptoms will be very similar to those accompanying fracture of the spine with compression of the cord (303). If in front, the wound may be situated as follows : 1. Above the hyoid bone, involving the floor of the mouth and dividing the base of the tongue ; wounds in this situation are often accompanied by considerable haemorrhage from injury to the lingual artery, and if the tongue is completely divided, its base may fall back over the orifice of the larynx and produce death from suffocation. 2. Through the thyro-hyoid membrane, dividing the epiglottis or tips of the arytenoid cartilages; these structures, if they fall back into the larynx, may offer considerable obstruction to respiration, or, setting up severe spasm, may cause death from suffocation.EEGIONAL SUJRGEET 166 Wounds o/lhroai. Immediate Dausera. Secondary jjangcrs. 3. Through the larynx, dividing the thyroid, or cricoid cartilages, or crico-thyroid membrane. 4. Tlivough the trachea, dividing the windpipe, either partially or completely. If the wound is above the level of the cricoid carti- lage, it may involve the pharynx; while if below the oesophagus itself may be injured. In cases where the air-passages are wounded, air will bubble in and out of the wound during respira- tion, and when the external wound is small, or does not correspond in position with that in the larynx or trachea, emphysema (277) is very liable to super- vene. When the pharynx or oesophagus are involved, food will probably pass out of the external wound on attempts to swallow. If any of the large blood-vessels are divided, the hismorrhage may be so profuse as to cause almost instant death. 280. The Immediate Bangers attending- a wound of the throat are— 1. Death from haemorrhage, which is liable to occur if the large vessels (carotid artery, jugular vein) are divided. 2. Death from asphyxia, either from blood flowing into the trachea, or from portions of tissue which have been either partially or completely divided falling over or into the larynx, exciting spasm of the glottis, and m this way causing obstruction to respiration. 3. Death from entrance of air into one of the large veins, especially those at the root of the neck. 281. The Secondary Bangers coming on in the course of a few days are— 1. Inflammation of the larynx, leading to codema glottidis (313).INJURIES OF THE NECK 167 j^.^^^,Throai 2. Inflamination of the parts below the larynx, lead- ing to bronchitis and pneumonia. 3. Interference with deglutition, in cases where the food-passages are wounded. 4. Inflammation of the soft tissues round the seat of injury, going on to suppuration and the formation of abscess. 282. The more remote complications coming on at a Compii- variable period are— 1. Fistulae opening externally and communicating with some part of the food- or air-passages, or leading from the one to the other. 2. Constriction or narrowing of the trachea or larynx (" stricture "), and possibly also of the oesophagus itself, when cicatrisation takes place in the case of wounds involving these structures. 3. Modification or entire loss of voice, especially in cases where the vocal cords have been involved. 283. Fracture of the Kvoid Bone sometimes occurs Fracture of Hyoid ^ . Bone. as the result of blows, falls, attempts at strangulation, death from hanging, &c. The injury is characterised by the presence of cre- pitus, with more or less displacement and mobility of the fragments; pain is experienced on any movement of the parts, as in attempts to speak or swallow. 284. Dislocation of the Syoid Bone, or rather dis- Dislocation of / ^ . ' Hyoid Bone. placement, so that its normal relations to the thyroid cartilage are somewhat altered, is an accident of extremely rare occurrence. 285. Fracture of the Cartilages of the Larynx may Fracture of the be caused by injuries similar to those which produce Laryux!^^ °^ fracture of the hyoid bone (283), the thyroid cartilage, from its more prominent position, being the one most commonly involved; this accident is most likely toREGIONAL SDRGEET. 168 occur in old. subjects in wliom calcification of tlie car- tilages of the larynx has taken place. The injury is characterised hy more or less displacement of the parts, pain and difficulty of breathing, and constant cough; when the mucous lining of the larynx is lacerated, spitting of blood is often present, and not uncommonly emphysema may be produced. ^fihef ^W^'^'^^ 0/ Trachea, without any external wound, has been known to occur from similar injuries, the windpipe having in some cases been torn com- pletely across. The injury is characterised by a depression at the seat of rupture, and is soon followed by extensive em- physema (277); great dyspncBa is produced, and death from asphyxia is very likely to occur. In rare instances a rupture or rent in the treaehea is produced as the result of violent respii-atory efforts, e.g. in croup or whooping-cough in children; in severe attacks of bronchitis; in the violent expiratory efforts of parturition. ^'of Larynx!"'"" ^^'^' 'S^cciZc^s of the Larynx often occur in young chil- dren from the accidental swallowing of boiling water; as the direct result of the injury, the interior of the pharynx or larynx becomes the seat of acute inflam- mation, and oedema glottidis (313) is often produced ; this, if severe, speedily destroys life from suffocation. The same result sometimes follows the swallowing of corrosive liquids, or, in the case of burns, from the direct inhalation of the flames. ^ The^Air ° a'r ^° ^^'^^ uufrequently happens, especially in chil- sages. dren, that foreign bodies, e.g. portions of food, bones, coins, fruit-stones, buttons, pins, &c., are inhaled or drawn from the mouth into the larynx by the current of air, the result of a sudden or deep inspiration;INJURIES OF THE NECK Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages. another common accident is the impaction of a large portion of food in the lower part of the pharynx, which by obstructing the orifice of the larynx may cause death from asphyxia. A foreign body may be lodged— 1. At the orifice of the larynx, just above the rima glottidis. 2. In the interior of the larynx, e.g. in one of the ventricles, or between the vocal cords. 3. In the trachea. 4. In one of the bronchi or their subdivisions ; ■ if a foreign body is not arrested in the trachea, it passes more commonly into the right bronchus, for though this bronchus lies more horizontally than the left, yet it is of somewhat larger size, and the septum between the two is placed slightly to the left of the median line. The symptoms attending the entrance of a foreign body are those of irritation of the air-passages and obstruction to respiration, viz. fits of spasmodic cough, great dyspnoea and a feeling of suffocation ; they vary, however, considerably with its size and shape, and also with its situation, fpr the larger and rougher the foreign body and the nearer it is situated to the vocal cords, the more urgent are the symptoms. If situated in the larynx, the symptoms are generally in Larynx, very severe, and death often speedily results from spasm of the glottis; in other cases, there is a feeling of in- tense suffocation and urgent dyspnoea, with constant cough, aggravated from time to time; respiration is stridulous, and the voice is altered or lost; pain is often experienced in the neighbourhood of the larynx, and the foreign body can sometimes be felt from the mouth, or be detected with the laryngoscope. If situated in the trachea, the symptoms are usually in Trachea.Foreiffit Bodies in ike jir-pasaages. 170 EEGIONAL STTEGEET In Bronchi. In Subdivision of either Bron- chus. Secondary f.ffecta. less severe, and there are often long intervals of freedom from spasm, which is, however, often excited on any movement of the hody, or on violent expiratory efforts, by which the foreign body is driven up so aa to strike against the larynx; in many cases the patient will be conscious of its movements up and down the trachea. If the ear is applied to the front of the chest, the foreign body, if loose, can be often heard moving up and down in the windpipe; if fixed, its position can be often determined by the obstruction which is offered to the free passage of air beyond it during inspiration. If situated in one of the hronchi, the entrance of air into the corresponding lung will be partially or entirely prevented; consequently there will be a more or less complete absence of respiratory murmur, without dul- ness on percussion, while in the opposite lung the breath sounds will probably be exaggerated. If situated in one of the subdivisions of either bronchus, the same conditions will be present in the lobe con- nected with the obstructed bronchus (which may become collapsed), though air passes freely into the remainder of the lung. 289. Supposing a foreign body is not extracted or expelled, and that death does not result from spasm of the glottis, inflammation of the air-passages (laryngitis or bronchitis) will probably be set up, and this extend- ing to and involving the lung (pueumonia) will be very liable to be followed by a fatal result, or, the foreign body, if situated in one of the bronchi, may ulcerate into the lungs and ultimately give rise to all the symptoms of phthisis ; or, making its way into the pleura, may give rise to empyema. If smooth and round, it may occasionally remain im- pacted in the lower part of the trachea, or one of itsINJURIES OF THE NECK '^'^'^ Foreign Bodies in the Mr-passages. divisioBS, without giving rise to any severe symptoms, — and in some cases, after a long period, the foreign body may be ultimately coughed up by the patient, or be dis- charged through an abscess or fistulous opening in the chest walls.CHAPTER XXI INJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OP CEEVICAL SPINE Injuries. 300. The injuries to which the cervical portion of the spinal column is subject are sprains or twists, disloca- tions, and fracture. Sprains. 301. Severe strain or stretching, and even laceration, of the ligaments connecting together the cervical ver- tebrae is followed by pain and aching in the back of the neck, more or less swelling over the affected part, along with stiffness and inability to move the head from side to side, or to and fro. Dislocation. 302. Pure dislocation of the spine can for anatomical reasons (e.g. the greater mobility of the cervical vertebrae and the horizontal aspect of their articular processes) only occur in the cervical region, such an injury being almost impossible in the dorsal and lumbar portions of the column. The upper vertebrae are generally thrown forwards upon the lower, the spinal cord being more or less pressed upon and crushed between them. The lower cervical vertebrae, third to seventh, are those which are most usually displaced, the fifth most com- monly, and in the majority of cases the dislocation is associated with fracture. Dislocation of the atlas from the occipital bone has been known to occur, but is very rare. Dislocation of the axis from the atlas is of more fre- quent occurrence, and it may happen with or withoutINJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAL SPINE. 173 fracture of the odontoid process; it may result from injury or disease (e.g. softening and giving way of the transverse ligament which holds it in position). The symptoms of dislocation are those of compression of the spinal cord, and are almost identical with those of fracture (303), the two conditions being generally associated together. Occasionally the displacement is only momentary, the vertebrse, by the elasticity of the structures connect- ing them together, at once recovering their normal position; under these circumstances there may b-? no marked paralysis as the immediate result of the injury, but it may supervene after an interval of several days, as the result of inflammatory changes set up in the spinal cord or its membranes. 303. A fracture of the cervical portion of the spine, Fracture, involving the arch or body of the vertebra, attended with displacement of the fragments and compression of the cord opposite to or above the third cervical vertebra (i. e. above the origin of the phrenic nerve) is usually immediately fatal, death from asphyxia being produced owing to paralysis of the diaphragm and muscles of respiration. In fracture of the odontoid process, the result of injury; or separation, the result of disease (e.g. caries of the cervical vertebrae), death is usually instantaneous, owing to the sudden pressure of the displaced portion of bone upon the medulla oblongata. When the fracture takes place at any point between the third cervical and first dorsal vertebra, paralysis more or less complete of both upper and lower extremities is generally produced; breathing is much interfered with, owing to paralysis of the muscles of respiration, inspi- ration being entirely diaphragmatic; owing to loss ofFtaeture. ^''''^ REGIONAL SUEGEET power in the sphincter ani and the muscular walls of the bladder, there are involuntary evacuations of faeces and retention of urine, subsequently followed by incon- .tinence,the result of overflow from a distended bladder. An accumulation of gas takes place in the intestines, giving rise to tympanitis, and if the patient lives long enough cystitis is set up, the urine becoming ammonia- cal and alkaline in reaction. Sensation is entirely lost in the parts supplied by nerves | given off below the seat of fracture, bed-sores soon form, and priapism is generally present. The temperature of the paralysed part varies, being sometimes much higher than normal, while in other cases it is considerably lowered. Death generally results in the course of a few days (in the majority of cases within three) from a gradual process of asphyxia, the result of imperfect respiration. When the displacement of the fragments is slight, the parts below the seat of injury may be only partially paralysed; under these circumstances considerable pain is generally experienced at the seat of fracture, and hyperaesthesia is often found to exist at the line of junction of the paralysed and sound parts of the body, owing to compression and irritation of the nerves that issue from the intervertebral foramen at the seat of fracture. If the fracture involve the sixth cervical vertebra, the upper extremities will be only partially paralysed. In the majority of cases some abnormal projection or displacement of the spinous processes will be percepti- ble at the seat of injury. If the fracture involve only the top of the spinous process, mobility of the fractured portion of bone, with crepitus and more or less stiffness, swelling, and painINJtrniES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAL SPINE 175 Fracture. may te the only symptoms necessarily connected with the injury. When the fracture involves the cilio-spinal region of the spinal cord, contraction of the pupil is often observed. (The " cilio-spinal centre," from which oculo-pupillary fibres issue controlling the movements of the iris, is contained in that portion of the cord which corresponds with the two lower cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae.) 304. The earliest symptoms of caries, which usually Ce'"<=^' Cariea. commences in the bodies of the cervical vertebrae (less frequently in the intervertebral, cartilages), are as follows: 1. Stiffness and rigidity of the neck, so that the head is constantly fixed in a certain position; nodding and rotation of the head are impossible, and the patient, when he wishes to look round, has to twist the whole body, owing to loss of motion between the affected vertebrae, and muscular spasm, the result of reflex irritation. 2. Pain, at the seat of the disease or radiated to some distant part, either constant or paroxysmal, and increased on certain movements, e. g. on a sudden jar or shock, as, for example, on coming downstairs, jump- ing from a chair on to the floor, on a sudden cough, or sneeze, &c. Pain is usually experienced on rotating, tapping, or pressing downward the head, and in some cases on tapping or applying a hot sponge to the affected por- tion of the spine. In disease of the first or second cervical vertebrae, pain is often referred to the back of the head, following the distribution of the suboccipital and great occipital nerves. In disease of the lower cervical vertebrae, pain is oftenREGIONAL StJEGEET Cervical Caries. felt over tlie shoulders, along the arms, or in front of the upper part of the chest, following the distribution of the cervical nerves and brachial plexus. In order to ease the pain, some device is often pre- sent for relieving the spine of the weight of the head, e. (/. the patient often supports the chin or occiput with the hands, or rests the head upon a chair. In the later stages, when the disease is more ad- vanced, some of the following symptoms may be pre- sent, viz. : 3. Angular curvature (Pott's curvature) or undue prominence of the spines of the affected vertebrae, as the result of destruction and fusion together of the bodies of the diseased vertebrae. 4. Thickening of the soft tissues over the affected vertebrae. 5. Slight increase of temperature over the affected por- tion of the spine. 6. Abscess, which may present behind the pharynx (post-pharyngeal, 182) or pass forwards heneath the sterno-mastoid to the side or front of the neck (256) ; when the abscess discharges its contents, portions of necrosed bone may come away, exfoliating into the pharynx and being coughed up by the patient, or escap- ing through a sinus in the neck. 7. Sinuses about the neck, in some cases leading down to diseased bone, only present in the later stages after suppuration has occurred. 8. Paralysis: though in the majority of cases the spinal cord usually escapes, yet in some instances jjara- lysis, more or less complete, may be produced as the result of pressure upon the cord by the displaced ver- tebrae, or in consequence of inflammatory changes set tip in its membranes (pachymeningitis).INJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAIi SPINE 177 9. Sudden death may he produced when the axis is affected, as the result of giving way of the ligaments which hold in position the odontoid process; under these circumstances, this portion of bone being suddenly displaced backwards presses upon the medulla oblon- gata and causes sudden death. 305. Spondylitis Befonnans,* a form of Chronic Bheu- Ei^umaUc matic Arthritis, may attack the cervical portion of the " Spondylitis spine, the vertebrae becoming anchylosed together by masses of bone deposited upon their external surface, at the same time that absorption of their articular surfaces and intervertebral cartilages takes place. This condition is characterised by rigidity and stiff- ness, with more or less thickening of the affected portion of the spine, and is distinguished from cervical caries (304) by the fact that tlie patient is usually more advanced in years; by the absence of much, if any, tendency to destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae and consequent production of angular curvature, though there may be a general bowing of the spine (306) ; by the absence of any tendency to suppuration and the formation of abscess ; by the presence or history of other symptoms of rheumatism, though in many cases the spine may be the only part affected ; by the charac- ter of the pain, which is often worse at night and influ- enced by the weather; by the more extensive nature of the affection, the whole of the spinal column being ■ often involved, as also its articulations with the ribs, so that the movements of the chest walls are often inter- fered with, respiration being in advanced cases entirely abdominal. 306. Curvature of the spine may be due to several Currature of causes, appearing under three chief forms. Cervical Spine. * Allen Sturge, ' Clinical Soc. Trans,* vol. xii. 12Curvature of Cer- rical Spiue. 1. Angular. 178 REGIONAL STTRGEEY . General Bowing. «. Rickets, 307. 1. Angular Curvature, due to caries and destruc- tion of the bodies of the vertebrae, followed by a sharp projection backwards of their spinous processes, is (on account of the small size and depth from the surface of the spines of the cervical vertebrae) never so marked a symptom in the neck as it is in cases where the dorsal region of the column is involved. Paralysis of the spinal cord from pressure upon its substance or from inflammatory changes set up in its membranes (pachy- meningitis) may attend this form of curvature, though as a general rule it is not present (304). 308. 2. General Boioing, or arching backwards, of the spine is sometimes seen in children, the subjects of rickets, owing to simple relaxation of the ligaments and muscles connecting together and supporting the bodies of the vertebrae. The lower portion of the cervical spine is usually involved in the general or diffused curve, which is of a very different character to the sharp angular projection associated with disease of the bodies of the vertebrae; in many cases a certain amount of lateral displacement accompanies the general arching backwards. In extreme cases the bodies of the vertebrae may become somewhat compressed on the concave side of the curve. b. Spondy- In cases of spondylitis deformans (305), there is often Deformans, a general bowing or arching backwards of the cervical spine, very different to the sharp projection of angular curvature, but resembling that affection in being accom- panied by rigidity and stiffness of the neck. In cases of osteitis deformans,* exaggeration of the e. Osteitis " . ^ • , 1 • 1 Deformang. normal curvature of the cervical spine (as also m the * Paget, Medico-Chirurg. Traus.,' vol, Ix,INJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAL SPINE 179 _ , , Curvature of ( vical Spine. dorsal and lumbar regions), with considerable rigidity, — is sometimes seen. This condition appears to be due to contraction and hardening of the fibrous and ligamentous structures of the spine, the vertebrae themselves generally remaining healthy and separate from one another; in some cases, however, they have been found much hypertrophied, undergoing changes identical with those seen in the bones of the cranium and extremities (cf. 33 b). 309. 3. In lateral curvature, due to relaxation and 3. Lateral, weakening of the muscles and ligaments of the spine, ■the lower cervical vertebrae are generally involved in the upper or dorsal curve, the convexity of which usually looks towards the right shoulder; or, in ex- treme cases, a third, independent or compensatory curve is sometimes produced in the cervical portion of the spine. This form of curvature is usually met with between the ages of 12 and 18 years, much more com- monly in girls than boys. The displacement is not a purely lateral one, for the bodies of the vertebrae are in addition somewhat rotated or twisted upon each other in such a way that, while the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae look towards the convexity of the curve, the spinous processes occupy the concavity; on this account the deformity is sometimes called " rotation curvature." When the deformity has lasted for some time, the bodies of the vertebrae will often be found somewhat compressed on the concave side of the curve. In rare cases of caries affecting chiefly one side of the bodies of the vertebrae, a lateral displacement may be produced instead of the ordinary angular curvature backwards, but under these conditions a certain amount of displacement backwards is always present as well.„ , , - 180 EEGIONAL StTEGEET Curvature of Cer- vical Spine. and the lateral curve is always limited, being confined to tlie affected vertebrae instead of involving the whole column, as in the true lateral or "rotation" curvature. Lateral curvature may also be produced when collapse of the walls of the thorax has taken place in cases of pleurisy or empyema. It is often present in cases of shortening of either lower extremity from any cause, e. g. morbus coxae, &c., the obliquity of the pelvis causing a lumbar curve, and this is compensated for by a dorsal curve in the oppo- site direction, which may involve the lower cervical vertebrae. Rigidity of Spine. 310. Rigidity OX Stiffness of the cervical spine, causing the patient to hold the neck more or less completely fixed and interfering with the movements of the head, may follow an injury to the back of the neck (301), or it may be due to anchylosis of the hodies of the vertebrce, e.g. in caries of the spine (304), spondylitis deformans (305), or simple muscular contraction, e.g. in torticollis (265); in the very early stage of caries of the cervical spine, before anchylosis has taken place, stiffness of the neck, due to simple contraction of the muscles from reflex irritation, is always a prominent symptom (304). It is also present in some cases of osteitis deformans (308), the result either of simple contraction of the ligaments, or of changes in the vertebrae themselves. Spina Bifida. 311. Spina Bifida is the term applied to a congenital hernia, or protrusion, of the membranes of the cord through a cleft in the arches of the vertebrae, owing to their incomplete closure. Though this condition is more common in the lower dorsal or lumbar region, it is occasionally met with in the cervical portion of the spinal column. The sac of the tumour, which is formed by the skinINJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAL SPINE 181 g^^^^ and membranes of the cord (dura mater and both layers of ai'achnoid), usually contains in its interior subaracb- noid or cerebro-spinal fluid, and sometimes in addition the pia mater and spinal cord itself. Less frequently the fluid contents of the tumour, containing no sugar, consists simply of the serous secre- tion of the arachnoid space itself, and not, as in the previous case, of cerebro-spinal or subarachnoid fluid ;* under these circumstances, the coverings of the sac are also different, comprising the integument, dura mater, and outer layer of the arachnoid alone. In very rare instances a protrusion of the membranes may occur between or through the bodies of the verte- brae, on either their anterior or lateral surface, giving rise to the presence of a tumour on the front or lateral aspect of the spinal column, It usually appears as a soft, fluctuating tumour, par- tially or almost entirely reducible, increasing in size and becoming tense when the child cries or makes any violent expiratory efforts. When of small size, the stin covering the tumour may be of its normal colour and appearance, but when large, it is much thinned and in some cases almost transparent. 312. Hyperostosis or enlargement and thickening of Hyp the cervical vertebrae may be due to simple overgrowth or hypertrophy, or it may be the result of osteitis de- formans (308) or chronic rheumatic arthritis (305). In these affections, irregular masses of bone (osteo- phytes) are sometimes found overspreading or project- ing from the surfaces of the vertebrae, causing anchy- losis, and in some cases producing more or less thicken- ing and fulness at the back and sides of the neck. * Gould,' Lancet,' 1882, vol. i, p. 737.REGIONAL SCJEGEEY 182 In other cases the bony outgrowths may be circum- scribed and defined, having a narrow base of attach- ment, and resembling more in their nature a simple exostosis. Sarcomata. 312 a. Sarcomatous Tumours springing from the peri- osteum (" periosteal"), or originating in the interior of the bodies of the vertebrae (" central"), sometimes attack the cervical vertebrae. They are characterised by their rapid growth and serious pressure effects (e. g. pressing upon the spinal cord, or interfering with deglutition and respiration) : if the patient lives long enough they are generally followed by secondary deposits in internal organs (lungs, liver, &c.). In some cases they may project anteriorly forming a prominence at the back of the pharynx (184), while, at other times, making their way laterally or posteriorly, they may give rise to thickening or the presence of a tumour at the sides or back of the neck. Carcinoma. Carcinoma may in rare cases attack the bones of the spinal column as a secondary affection, most commonly consecutive to cancer of the breast.* " The symptoms of malignant disease in the spine are of the same general character as those of other destruc- tive diseases in the vertebrae. Malignant disease does, however, in most instances, exhibit one prominent fea- ture, which would at once distinguish it with certainty from other spinal diseases if it were of constant occur- rence ; this is the very severe pain in the vertebrae, and, besides, the severely painful affections of the parts sup- plied by the nerves issuing from the diseased portion of the spine. " Thus, almost invariably, in malignant disease of the * Crosar Hawkins, ' Medico-Chirurg. Trans.,' vol. sxiv.INJURIES AND AFFECTIONS OF CERVICAL SPINE 183 CarcinoTiui. vertebrse, the pain in the back has been constant and agonising. But unfortunately, in some few cases it has been decidedly otherwise, and the impaired sensation and motive power in the limbs were not preceded or accompanied by any pain in the diseased vertebrse ; the symptoms are exactly such as attend the ordinary forms of spinal disease. " So far it may be conjB.dently stated that the existence of constant and severe pain in the spine, ia conjunction with the symptoms of disorganisation in the spinal cord, are strong grounds for apprehending that the vertebrse are attacked by malignant disease, but that the absence of severe pain in the spine is not sure evi- dence of the disease in it being otherwise than of a malignant nature."* 312 b Irreeularities in the length, thickness, shape, irregularities of • & J. 1 • 1 Spinous and direction of the spinous processes of the cervical Processes, vertebrse are sometimes met with as simple malforma- tions and independent of any disease (e. g. Caries, 304); in some cases their tips are abnormally bifid, or they may be obliquely twisted to one side. * Stanley, ' Diseases o£ the Bones,' p. 342.CHAPTEE XXn AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TEACHEA Acute Laryngitis. 313. Acute Inflammation of the Interior of the Larynx may occur as the result of exposure to cold; or it may come on in the course of some of the exanthemata; or as a consequence of extension inwards of erysipelatous inflammation. In many cases it is of traumatic origin, following wounds or injuries of the throat, larynx, or windpipe, or the swallowing of boiling fluid, corrosive liquids, &c.; it may also result from over-use of the voice in speaking, shouting, singing, &c. A special form of laryngitis, peculiar to children, is known by the name of croup (314); while in cases of diphtheria the larynx is sometimes involved as the result of extension of inflammation from the throat (316). Acute laryngitis generally begins with unpleasant sensations (e. g. soreness, burning, or tickling) at the back of the throat and orifice of the larynx, increased on coughing or speaking; swallowing is painful; the voice becomes hoarse and is soon, more or less, com- pletely lost; cough is usually a prominent symptom, and attended with some expectoration; respiration is interfered with, considerable dyspnoea being often pro- duced ; more or less pyrexia is generally present. If the disease advances, the dyspnoea increases in severity, respiration becoming noisy and laboured, and the pulse weak and intermittent; symptoms of imper-AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 185 feet aeration of the blood appear, and death ensues, either suddenly from spasm of the glottis or from gra- dually increasing obstruction to respiration, the result of oedematous infiltration of the submucous tissue lining the interior of the larynx (oedema glottidis). "fj^Xdis" On examination with the laryngoscope, the laryngeal mucous membrane will, in the early stage, be seen to be turgid and of a bright red colour, and when oedema glottidis is present, the epiglottis and ar> teno-epiglot- tidean folds will be found much swollen and congested, so as to prevent inspection of the interior of the larynx. 314. Croup, or Gynanche Trachealis, is an acute in- C'SwIiT'^" flammation of the larynx peculiar to childhood, charac- terised by the deposit of a peculiar exudation or false membrane on the mucous membrane lining its interior, and which in many cases also extends to and involves the trachea. This affection usually sets in during the night, in many cases suddenly and without any premonitory symptoms; the voice is hoarse, or completely lost; paroxysms of hard, dry, ringing cough come on from time to time, and the cough is interrupted by a shrill, whistling, or crowing inspiration. A little viscid mucus is sometimes brought up, and the expectoration may oocasionally consist of shreds or patches of the false membrane. Eespiration is greatly interfered with, being very laboured and attended by violent efforts ; more or less pyrexia is generally present. The symptoms are not persistent, being worse at night, when the paroxysms are always aggravated. In fatal cases the dyspnoea in- creases, the respiration becomes still more laboured, and is attended by suclring-in of the chest walls; the pulse becomes small and thready and the face livid;EEGIONAIi SUEGEEY 186 Symptoms of imperfect aeration of the blood show themselves, and sooner or later death ensues. Examination with the laryngoscope is scarcely prac- ticable in these cases, but if it can be employed, the false membrane lining the interior of the larynx might possibly be seen. The dyspnoea, which is so prominent a symptom, is due not only to the presence of the false membrane, which mechanically obstructs the entrance of air into the air-passages, but also to spasm (or, as some assert, to paralysis) of the muscles of the interior of the larynx, excited by the inflammation. Laryngismus 315. Laryngismus Stridulus—" Spurious Croup "—is "Spwious a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the glottis oc- curring in young children. The affection usually comes on suddenly at night when the child is asleep ; the chief symptoms are attacks of dyspnoea with loud crowing inspiration (" child-crowing"), lasting often for several minutes, then suddenly ceasing and leaving the patient quite well between the paroxysms. Pyrexia is generally absent, and there is no affection of the voice nor cough, symptoms which distinguish it from true croup (314). This affection is of nervous origin, the result either of some central or reflex irritation, and is in many cases accompanied by general convulsions ; the subjects of it often present evidences of scrofula or rickets, and in the latter condition it has been suggested that the spasm is due to pressure upon the brain when the child lies upon its back, owing to the thinning and perfora- tion, in some cases, of the occipital and parietal bones (cf. Craniotabes, 29). Dinhihcritic In some cases of diphtheria (178) the disease Liiryngitis. ^ ' may spread from the throat to the larynx, and theAFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TEACHEA 187 mucous memlDraiie lining its interior may then become tlie seat of the deposit characteristic of this affection. It may he distinguished from the other forms of laryn- gitis by the fact that diphtheria is either epidemic or there is a history of contagion ; the general symptoms of diphtheria will have preceded the implication of the larynx, and on examination of the throat the peculiar deposit will probably be evident; enlargement of the glands about the angles of the jaw will almost invari- ably be present; epiataxis will probably occur from time to time ; and, on examination of the urine, it will generally be found to contain albumen. As one of the sequelae of diphtheria, paralysis of the muscles of the larynx is sometimes seen. 317. Chronic Inflammation of the Interior of the Larynx may depend upon constitutional causes, e.g. phthisis, syphilis; or, it may remain as the sequel of the acute form of inflammation; it may result from excessive use of the voice, or may be produced in con- sequence of some cause of irritation extending from the throat or acting upon the larynx itself, e.g. inhalation of irritant matter, excessive smoking, ulceration, or growths in the larynx, &c. The appearances produced in the larynx vary in different cases, but, as a general rule, its mucous lining is more or less congested, hypersemic, and thickened; in some cases its surface is dry and shining, or it may be swollen and cedematous, discharging an abundant secretion. In glandular or follicular laryngitis, which usually accompanies "clergyman's sore throat" (176), the mucous glands of the larynx, which are the structures chiefly involved, become enlarged and prominent. In phthisical larynyitis there is, in many cases, a de- posit of tubercle beneath the mucous membrane cover-Chronic Laryngi- REGIONAL SURGERY lis. ing tlie epiglottis and lining the larynx; this is very prone to break down and ulcerate, in consequence of which erosion and destruction of the cartilages are not uncommonly produced. Syphilitic laryngitis may be met with either as a secondary or tertiary aifection. In the secondary stage, the affection of the larynx may be due to the spread of inflammation from the throat (177), or less commonly, the larynx itself may be primarily involved, and erosion and superficial ulceration of its mucous lining may be produced. In the tertiary stage, there is often a deposit of gum- matous material in the mucous and submucous tissues of the larynx, and this, softening and breaking down, is often followed by ulceration, which extending deeply may cause extensive destruction of the cartilages and vocal cords. The symptoms characteristic of chronic laryngitis are as follows : a feeling of discomfort and uneasiness about the larynx, worse after speaking or reading aloud; alteration in the voice, which may be hoarse, harsh and cracked, or much weakened and almost entirely lost. Cough is generally present, of a constant irritating and tickling nature, or it may come on from time to time in severe paroxysms; it is usually attended by more or less expectoration, and the patient has often a constant desire to clear the throat: dysphagia is sometimes com- plained of. When the larynx is much obstructed, either from chronic thickening or from oedema of the soft parts, more or less dyspnoea will be produced, with stridulous inspiration; and when ulceration has taken place severe spasm of the glottis will be liable to occur. Ulceration. 318. Ulceration of the mucous membrane lining the interior of the larynx may be due to several causes, e. g.:AFFECTIONS OF THE LAEYNX AND TRACHEA 189 ulceration. In simple laryngitis, acute or chronic, ulceration of a superficial character is often present. In phthisical laryngitis, the under surface of the epiglottis, the vocal cords, and adjacent parts often hecome the seat of ulceration, which, in many cases, is the result of the softening and breaking down of depo- sits of tubercle. In syphilitic laryngitis, during the secondary stage, ulceration of a superficial nature is often seen ; while in the tertiary stage, as the result of softening and break- ing down of gummatous deposits, deep ulcers are very apt to form and necrosis of the subjacent cartilages often ensues. If cicatrisation takes place, the contract- ing scars often narrow the calibre of the larynx, and considerable obstruction to respiration is consequently produced. The symptoms indicative of ulceration of the larynx are as follows : hoarseness and alteration in the voice, which may be almost entirely lost; attacks of coughing, with expectoration of pus, blood, and shreds of tissue; dysphagia, pain being especially experienced when the epiglottis is involved; respiration is often noisy ; attacks of spasm of the glottis are liable to occur, giving rise to urgent dyspnoea. On examination with the laryngoscope, the mucous membrane will present evidences of chronic laryngitis (317), and distinct ulcerations will be seen in difierent places. 319. Constriction or narrowing of the larynx or Constriction or .1 41 oi • I )) 1 . Niirrowing trachea— mricture —may occur when cicatrisation ot Liirvnxor takes place in the case of external wounds or injuries''Stricture." (e. g. burns, scalds) involving these parts (282). The same condition may also be produced when repair has occurred iu cases of ulceration (318) attacking theREGIONAL SUBQEET 190 interior of tlie larynx. Voice will be altered or entirely lost, more or less obstruction will be offered to respira- tion, and considerable dyspnoea is often produced. Kecrosiaof 320. Necrosis of the Gartilaqes of the larynx may Cartilages. % . ^ , . . . . -^nx occur m cases of ulceration attacking its interior (318). Portions of tbe cartilages may become detacbed and be cougbed up by tbe patient; abscesses often form in tbe surrounding parts, and these discharging externally, sinuses are left in the neck leading down to the diseased tissues. Tumours. 321. Various forms of tumours or new growths are found in the interior of the larynx, and though they may occur at any part, they are more frequently situated in front, near the convergence of the vocal cords, Papillomata or warty growths, are not at all uncom- monly met with as sessile growths about the size of a pea, and frequently multiple. Fibromata, fihro-myxomata, fibro-sarcomata, are not so common, but when present, they usually appear as pedunculated growths, like the polypi met with in other parts. Sarcomata and carcinomata are sometimes seen, the latter usually in the form of epithelioma, which though it may attack the larynx as a primary growth, yet is in many cases due to simple extension of disease from the pharynx or oesophagus. The other varieties of tumour sometimes met with, viz. lipomata, vascular or cystic growtJis, enchondromata, are of exceedingly rare occurrence. The symptoms will vary with the situation, size, and nature of the growth; voice is generally altered, and is liable to sudden changes, being at one moment almost natural, while at the next it is hoarse, or partially orAFFECTIONS OP LAETNX AND TEACHEA 191 completely lost. Eespiration is generally affected; more or less dyspnoea is present, aggravated at inter- vals, when severe suffocative attacks, due to spasm of the glottis, are often produced. Cough is generally present, and in some cases fragments of the growth are expelled in the expectoration. Laryngoscopical examination will generally reveal the presence of the growth; when the surrounding tissues have hecome involved, as may happen in cases of epi- thelioma, the growth may give rise to a fulness or tumour perceptible externally in the neck. 322. Dyspncsa, or diflBculty of breathing, is produced Dyspnaa. in all cases where there is any obstruction to the pas- sage of air through the larynx or windpipe; it may • depend upon many different causes, viz.: 1. Some cause of internal obstruction, tumours of ^ the larynx (321), foreign bodies in the larynx or trachea (288). 2. Inflammatory affections of the larynx, acute (313) or chi-onic (317) laryngitis. 3. Ulceration of the larynx (318). 4. Spasm of the glottis (325). 5. Some cases of paralysis of the muscles of the larynx (324). 6. Constriction or narrowing of the larynx or trachea, the result of cicatrisation after injury or ulceration (319). 7. External pressure upon the larynx, trachea, or recurrent laryngeal nerves by growths or tumours in the neck or thorax. 323. Aphonia, or loss of voice, may be partial or com- Aphonia, plete; the patient may speak in a whisper, or the voice may be hoarse and husky, or completely lost. This condition may be produced by any of the same causesEEGIONAL STTRGERT 192 whicli give rise to dyspnoea (322) ; it is also present in cases of fistula communicating with the windpipe or larynx (327). Aphonia, or loss of voice, must not be confounded with Aphasia, viz. loss of the faculty of intelligent speech, the result, not of changes in the larynx, but of some affection of the cerebral centre which presides over speech. Paralysis of tiie 324. Paralysis of the Miiscles of the Vocal Cords may .f^USClcS of t«ll6 Vocal Cords, be due to various causes. 1. Tumours, or growths, in the larynx (321). 2. Ulceration of the larynx (318). 3. Pressure on the pneumogastric or laryngeal nerves by tumours in the neck or thorax (aneurismal, glan- dular, &c.). 4. Injuries, or surgical operation, involving the recur- rent laryngeal nerves. 5. Hysteria, syphilis, chronic lead or arsenical poisoning. 6. Diseases of the nerve centres, e. g. tabes dorsalis, progressive cerebral paralysis {e.g. glosso-laryngeal paralysis). 7. As a sequel of various acute diseases, e. g. diph- theria (316), typhus fever, &c. Four chief varieties of paralysis of the muscles of the larynx are described, viz. : 1. Paralysis of adductors (crico-arytenoidei laterales and arytenoideus). a. Bilateral.—" Hysterical or functional aphonia." There is complete loss of voice, or the patient perhaps speaks in a scarcely audible whisper. Laryngoscopical examination shows that the vocal cords are separated and remain immovable during attempts at phonation.AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 193 „ , . ^ „ Paralysis of Mus- cles of Vocal h. Unilateral.—The voice is altered and often assumes '^"^'^'j^ a falsetto character. Laryngoscopical examination shows that the vocal cord on the affected side does not act during attempts at phonation. 2. ParaZysis 0/a6(Zwcfors (crico-arytenoidei postici). i. a. Bilateral.—The voice is not much affected, but may be harsh ; there is considerable dyspnoea with noisy stridulous inspiration. Laryngoscopical examination shows that the vocal cords lie close together near the median line, and do not separate when an inspiration is taken. 6. Unilateral.—The voice is not much affected, but more or less dyspnoea is present, with noisy inspiration. Laryngoscopical examination shows that the affected vocal cord does not move during respiration, but lies near the median line. 3. Paralysis of tensors fcrico-thyroidei).—The voice becomes deep and hoarse, and the production of high notes is difficult or impossible. Laryngoscopical examination shows that the surfaces of the vocal cords are not quite horizontal and their edges not perfectly straight. 4<. Paralysis of relaxors (thyro-arytenoidei).— In paralysis of these muscles, whose office it is to relax the vocal cords, the ligamentous part of the glottis remains open, while juxtaposition of the arytenoid cartilages takes place. On laryngoscopical examination a minute elliptical opening may often be discovered between the cords. 325. In spa.sm of the muscles of the glottis the vocal Spasm of Glottis, cords suddenly become approximated to one another; if the orifice of the glottis is completely closed, there will be complete arrest of respiration and apnoea if 13EEGIONAIi SUKGEBT 194 spasm of Glottis. Leprosy of Larynx. TracLeocele. Aerial Pietulffi. only partially, there will he stridulous inspiration and considerable dyspnoea. This condition may depend on various causes, viz.: Acute and chronic inflammation of the larynx (313— 317), croup (314). Ulceration of larynx (318). Burns and scalds, or other injuries involving the larynx (287). Tumours of larynx (321). Foreign bodies in larynx or trachea (288). Tumours external to larynx or trachea, pressing upon the laryngeal nerves (245). Some central irritation, e. g. in tetanus, hydrophobia, many cases of laryngismus stridulus (315). Some reflex irritation, e. g. laryngismus stridulus in children from teething, worms, &c. (315). 326. In cases of ieprosi/, the mucous membrane of the larynx, as also that lining the mouth and pharynx, may become affected with the tubercles and patches of ulceration characteristic of the disease. This condition is characterised by more or less dys- phonia, the voice becoming shrill and often completely lost; at the same time cough and dyspnoea are gene- rally present, and the patient will show evidences of the disease on the face (43) and other parts of the body. 327. Tracheocele or "Aerial Goitre," is the term applied to a hernial protrusion of the mucous mem- brane of the windpipe between the rings of the trachea, giving rise to the presence of a tumour, resonant on percu'^ssion and reducible on pressure, perceptible exter- nally in the neck; this condition is of extremely rare occurrence. 327 a. Aerial Fistula. (Cf. 276).CHAPTEE XXIII THE BAB Affections of the Auricle 328. Malformations of the Auricle, or external ear, are Malformation, sometimes seen. Complete absence or imperfect development of the auricle is occasionally met with, and in many cases these conditions are associated with defect or absence of the external auditory canal. Supernumerary auricles are sometimes found, situated on the cheek or side of the neck, and at times this deformity is associated with macrostoma or congenital fissure of the cheek (94). Congenital fistulce, the result of non-closure of the first visceral cleft, are rarely found, opening just in front of the tragus and extending for a variable dis- tance, sometimes as far as the tympanic cavity; in some cases the external opening is situated on the helix. Associated with these congenital fistulse we sometimes find supernumerary auricles, or the external ear may be imperfectly developed; in some cases, similar openings are found at the side of the neck (276). Absence of some portion, or of the whole, of the awnci^e Absence, may be due to a congenital arrest of development, or it may be the result of injury or of disease, e.g. epithe- lioma, lupus, rodent ulcer, syphilitic ulceration (335).196 EEGIONAL STTEGERT Cutaneous Affec- 329. The auricle may become the seat of various tions. cutaneous affections, e.g. eczema, impetigo, herpes, pemphigus, erythema, erysipelas, &c. It may also become the se^t of syphilitic ulceration, epithelioma, lupus, or rodent ulcer (335). Tumours. 330. The auricle may become the seat of various tumours or morbid growths; those most commonly met with are sebaceous cysts (322), hsematomata (331) fibrous or keloid tumours (333), and nsevoid growths (334). Epitheliomata, enchondromata, and sarcomata are of rare occurrence. It may also become the seat of tophi or chalk-stones (337). Hsematomaor 331. A Hcematoma, or blood-cyst, is often foxmd as Blood-Cyst. result of effusion of blood between the perichon- drium and cartilage of the auricle. Two varieties are described, the idiopathic and traumatic, according as the extravasation of blood takes place spontaneously or as the result of injury. The idiopathic form usually appears in those who present evidence of insanity, and it is believed to de- pend upon some morbid condition of the brain, in con- sequence of which dilatation of the vessels of the ear, followed by rupture and effusion of blood, is produced; when occurring spontaneously in apparently healthy individuals, who present no evidence of mental disease, a "hEematoma auris" should therefore be regarded with suspicion, as indicating a tendency to the develop- ment of insanity. Its formation is usually preceded by flushing and congestion of the auricle, which feels hot and painful; effusion of blood then rapidly takes place, and in the course of a few hours the swelling reaches the size of a walnut or small egg, presenting itself as a somewhat hot, tense, and fluctuating tumour, situated most com-THE EAR—AFFECTIONS OF THE AURICLE 197 Hamalema. monly on the anterior surface of the auricle ; more rarely it is situated upon its posterior aspect, the lobule always escaping. The tumour may remain in a stationary condition for some time, or it may rupture spontaneously and dis- charge its contents ; in some cases suppuration may occur, or a gradual absorption of the effused blood may take place, and in consequence of this, considerable dis- tortion and deformity of the auris is often produced. The traumatic form is produced as the result of injury, e.g. a blow on the ear, and is found in persons who are perfectly healthy and present no evidence or suspicion of insa.nity. External violence may also act as the exciting cause in the case of the insane, who, as just described, are supposed to be naturally predisposed to this affection. 332. Sebaceous Cysts are not at all uncommonly met Sebaceous Cyst, with in the auricle, presenting characters similar to those found on the scalp (6). 333. Small tumours, varying in size from a pea to a Fibrous or Keloid walnut, or even larger, consisting of fibrous tissue, or of a mixture of fibrous tissue and spindle cells (fibro- sarcomata), are sometimes found attacking the lobule, growing round the perforations which have been made for ear-rings in women. 334. Vascular Tumours or Ncevoid Growths may in- Vascular Tumours. volve the auricle or lobule, either as primary affections or spreading from the scalp (4, 7) and adjacent tissues ; they usually present themselves as soft, compressible, bluish or reddish swellings, in which pulsation may often be detected. 335. Epithelioma (44), lupus (44), and rodent wZcer ^P'ti'^iioma. (44) sometimes attack the auricle as primary affec- Rodent uicer. tions, and after destroying more or less extensivelyREGIONAL SUEGEET 198 Enchondromata. Surcomata. Tophi or Chalk- stones. Hypertrophy. the superficial structures, may gradually extend inwards, involving the external auditory canal and deeper parts of the ear. 336. JEncTiondromata, or tumours consisting of car- tilage only, and sarcomata may in rare cases attack the external ear. 337. Tophi, or ChalJc-stones, are the terms applied to the collections of urate of soda often found on the edge of the hehx or in other parts of the auricle, in patients suffering from chronic gout. The little concretions, which vary in size, are at first somewhat softish and of a doughy consistence; after a time they become solid and hard, forming small, irre- gular, whitish masses, which are plainly perceptible beneath the slrin, and finally the skin may ulcerate over them, and there may be a discharge of the chalky matter, a slight cicatrix alone remaining to mark the seat of the former deposit. At other times active in- flammation is excited in the neighbourhood of the deposit, and a small abscess forms, which, when it bursts, discharges pus mixed with particles of urate of soda. 338. Hypertrophy of the Auricle, or Lohule, is some- times produced as the result of chronic inflammatory changes affecting these parts.CHAPTER XXIV THR EAB Affections of the External Meatus 339. Accumulation of Cerumen in the external meatus Cerumen, is a very common cause of deafness, whicli may come on gradually, or perhaps more frequently shows itself some- ^hat suddenly. Tinnitus, often of a distressing cha- i-acter, more or less pain or uneasiness, and attacks of giddiness are often present; on examination with a speculum, the collection of wax can he readily detected, and the membrana tympani will he completely hidden from sight. On removing the accumulation, either with a pair of forceps or by syringing, the deafness, if due to this cause alone, will at once disappear, and the drum- head will at the same time be exposed to view. From constant pressure of the cerumen upon the membrana tympani, ulceration of this structure, followed in some cases by perforation, may be produced, giving rise to more or less permanent loss of hearing. 340 A peculiar kind of mould or vegetable fungus, Parasites. -i- . , . , "Aspergil the "Aspergillus," is sometimes met with an the ex- ternal meatus, and in many cases the symptoms pro- duced are very similar to those caused by accumulation of cerumen, viz. loss of hearing, tinnitus, fulness of the ear, and more or less aching pain ; or inflammation of the meatus may be set up, accompanied by a serous200 EEGIONAL STTEGEEY Toreign Bodies, Otitis Externa Dilfusa. or sero-purulent discharge. To this condition the term " otomycosis' has been applied. 341. Foreign bodies axe often passed into the external meatus, especially in the case of young children. If rough and angular, or tiglitly wedged in the canal, or pressing on the membrana tympani, their presence generally gives rise to more or less pain and loss of hearing, though unless the meatus is completely ob- structed, deafness is not generally present; if allowed to remain severe inflammation may be excited, especi- ally if the substance is rough or sharp; under these circumstances considerable swelling of the soft tissues lining the meatus will be produced, accompanied by a purulent discharge, and perforation of the membrana tympani often results. On examination with a specu- lum, the foreign body can generally be detected, obstruct- ing from view the drum-head. 342. Diffuse Inflammation of the External Meatus may involve only the cutaneous tissues, or it may ex- tend more deeply, implicating the periosteum of the osseous portion of the canal; it may also affect the membrana tympani itself. This condition is most frequently met with in children after scarlet fever or one of the exanthemata, or it may arise idiopathi- cally as the result of exposure to cold, or simply in connection with a low state of health; in other cases it may be excited by the presence of a foreign body (341). It commences with a feeling of heat and uneasiness within the external meatus, the orifice of which soon becomes red, tender, and swollen; deafness and tin- nitus are generally present; sooner or later a purulent discharge appears, and the pain, which has usually been a prominent symptom, then disappears. In some casesTHE EAR—AFFECTIONS OP THE EXTERNAL MEATUS 201 perforation of the memlDrana tympani may be pro- duced. 343. Otitis Externa Circumscripta is Silocalised inflam- °^^^j*^'^^^*//?p*,a_ mation of the soft tissues lining the external meatus, Abscess or Fur- which in many cases leads to the formation of a small abscess or boil (furunculus). The symptoms are very similar to those attending the diffuse form of otitis externa (342), differing only in the fact that the inflammation is confined to a limited portion of the external auditory canal; in many cases a succession of small abscesses takes place, another form- ing as soon as the preceding one has healed up. 344. Ulceration of the External Meatus may remain Ulceration, as the result of otitis externa (342), or it may be due to syphilis or caries of the meatus; or be associated with perforation of the membrana tympani. It is characterised by a more or less purulent dis- charge from the ear, and on examination of the parts the ulcerated surface will usually be evident. 345. Caries of the Walls of the External Meatus may Caries, be produced as the result of otitis externa (342), where the periosteum has become affected, or it may follow inflammation and disease of the middle ear. It is characterised by the presence of a purulent dis- charge, and on examination with a probe, rough and carious bone will be detected. 346. The tumours or new growths most commonly Tumours, found in the external meatus are exostoses (347), polypi (349), and sebaceous tumours (348). 347. Exostoses, or small bony outgrowths, are not Exostoses, unfrequently met with in the external meatus, spring. ing from any part of its osseous walls; they are covered by the cutaneous tissues of the canal and are usually unattended by any pain; when of considerable size202 REGIONAL STJEGEET tliey may almost completely occlude the meatus, and in this way give rise to loss of hearing. These little growths, of which more than one may be present, may be congenital or the result of chronic inflammatory changes occurring in the middle or external ear; in some cases they appear to be of syi)hilitic origin, and are coincident with nodes in other situations. ^'^Tumours Sebuceous, Molluscous, or Gholesteatomatous Tu- mours, or concretions due to accumulation of epidermic scales which have undergone fatty degeneration, are sometimes met with in the external meatus. Polypi. 349. Polypi (360) are often found completely filling up the external meatus, and presenting themselves externally as exuberant growths of red or brownish colour. They are usually accompanied by a purulent discharge, and though they may be attached to the walls of the canal or membrana tympani, they will, in the majority of cases, be found to spring from the mucous membrane lining the interior of the tympanum, it being quite exceptional to find them attached to the walls of the external meatus with an imperforate mem- brana tympani. Discharge of Pus. 350. A Purulent Discharge from the ear, Otorrhcea, Otorrhcea. ^ -, may depend upon various causes. It may be due to simple otitis, diffused (342), or cir- cumscribed (343) ; otomycosis (340), ulceration of the walls of the canal (344), the presence of dead bone (345) or any irritating foreign body (341), or it may come from the middle ear, which is the seat of purulent catarrh (358), the pus finding its way externally through a perforation in the membrana tympani, and in many cases this condition will be found associated with the presence of a polypus (349). Discharge of 351. A Discharqe of Blood from the external meatus Blood.THE EAR—AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL MEATUS 203 X)iscMrge of Blood. is often seen in cases of fracture through the middle fossa of the hase of the skull; in other cases it may be dependent on laceration of the external meatus, or upon simple rupture of the membrana tympani unassociated with any fracture. In the former instance, as the blood comes from one of the large vascular channels at the base of the skull, the discharge is generally copious and long continued, and the haemorrhage is often followed by the discharge of a watery fluid, quite clear or tinged with blood (352). In the latter instance, the blood coming from the small vessels of the external meatus or membrana tym- pani is usually inconsiderable in quantity, and the haemorrhage soon ceases. 352. A Discharge of Watery Fluid, either clear or ^^^^ tinged with blood, following immediately a severe in- jury to the head, or preceded by copious and long-con- tinued haemorrhage from the ear (351)," is generally indicative of a fracture through the middle fossa of the base of the skull (38), whereby the prolongation of arachnoid which invests the seventh pair of nerves in the internal meatus is ruptured ; in this way, the subarach- noid space being laid open, the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes externally through a laceration in the mem- brana tympani, which will always be found to co-exist. An escape of cerebro-spinal fluid in this way must not be confounded with the simple serous discharge which may follow an injury, or be due to some inflam- matory condition, affecting the lining membrane of the external meatus or tympanum, and independent of any fracture. In the latter case there will be an absence of the usual symptoms of fractured base (38) ; the watery discharge does not immediately follow the receipt ofBUchargeof ^04 EEMONAL SXJEaEET fFatery Fluids. the injury, but comes on after some interval; nor is it preceded by copious and long-continued baBmorrhage. The fluid does not present the characteristics of cere- bro-spinal fluid (i. e. contain sugar, an excess of sodium chloride, and only the slightest trace of albumen), but consists of a simple serous discharge, which contains more or less of inflammatory products.CHAPTEE XXV THE BAR Affections of the Membmna Tympani 353. Myringitis, or inflammation of tlie membrana Myringitis, tympani, is, as a rule, associated with some affection of the parts adjacent to it, and we generally find it co- existing with inflammation either of the external meatus (342) or middle ear (367); on examination with a speculum, the drum-head will be found to be red and vascular, having lost its natural lustre; severe pain will be present, with a feeling of fulness and throbbing in the ear, and tinnitus will usually be complained of by the patient. The inflammation may subside, or it may gradually pass into a chronic form, giving rise to per- manent thickening of the membrane : in other cases ulceration and perforation may be produced. 354. Perforation of the membrana tympani is a very Perforation, common affection; it may be produced as the result of injury (355), or it may be secondary to some inflam- matory condition of the external meatus (342), middle ear (357), or membrana tympani itself (353). It is perhaps most commonly the result of that form of purulent inflammation of the middle ear (357), which so often follows scarlet fever or one of the other exanthemata. The perforation may be of small size, and its detec- tion is then often somewhat difiicult, or it may involve_ , ,. 206 REGIONAL SURGERY Ferforation. almost the whole surface of the drum-head. On exami- nation with a speculum, the perforation, if of small size, will be usually evident as a minute opening, or it may be occupied by a drop of fluid, which sometimes exhibits distinct pulsation ; if the patient be directed to close his mouth and nostrils, and then forcibly expire, bubbles of air will be often seen to pass through the opening. When the perforation is of large size and almost the whole of the membrane is gone, the inner wall of the middle ear, with the remains of the ossicles, will be exposed to view, the mucous membrane lining its interior will present a red and granular appearance, and the promontory can often be detected as a rounded prominence. Otorrhoea (350) is generally present, the pus being secreted by the lining membrane of the middle ear, and when this condition has continued for some time, polypi (360) not unfrequently make their appearance, growing from the interior of the tympanum and projecting through the perforation. More or less deafness will be present, the loss of hearing varying considerably in different cases. Rupture. 355. Bupture of the membrana tympani may be pro- duced as the result of a penetrating wound from with- out ; or it may accompany a fracture of the base of the skull (38) ; in other cases it may result from a blow on the ear, or from simple concussion, such as that pro- duced by a loud report; or it may occur during fits of sneezing, coughing, blowing the nose, &c. The injury will be attended by more or less haemorrhage (351) ; on examination with a speculum, the rent or laceration will be apparent. Deafness will be generally present, vary- ing in degree, but as the rupture generally readilyTHE EAR—AFFECTIONS OF MEMBRANA TYMPANI 207 heals, this will gradually pass away; in oilier cases, permanent loss of hearing may remain, as the result no doubt of some shock inflicted at the time of the injury upon the nervous structures of the internal ear. 356. In chronic catarrh of the middle ear (358), the memhrana tympani usually loses its natural lustre and ^^'^'^^ transparency, becoming somewhat thickened and opaque ; in many cases it becomes retracted and drawn in, so that its folds are very prominent and the outline of the malleus is rendered unusually distinct. It sometimes happens that a high degree of deafness is present without their being any evidence of an ab- normal condition of the drum-head. In acute catarrh (357), on the other hand, when an accumulation of fluid takes place in the middle ear, the drum-head will be rendered unusually prominent and bulging.CHAPTEE XXVI THE EAR Affections of the Middle Ear Acute Catarrh. 357, Acute Inflammation of the Lining Membrane of the Tympanum is generally accompanied by very severe pain or " ear-aclie," often extending over the wliole of the side of the head; more or less deafness and tinnitus are present. There is usually some exudation from the canal, and the memhrana tympani, if examined with a speculum (though this is often a diflScult matter owing to the swollen and inflamed condition of the walls of the external meatus), will be found to be red and injected, and if suppuration takes place, unusually pro- minent aud bulging. Abscess. The affection may terminate in resolution and reco- very, lapse into a chronic condition, or go on to suppu- ration and the formation of an abscess in the middle ear, which, if left, will probably burst through the mem- brana tympani, producing a perforation of that struc- ture ; or much more rarely the pus may make its way into the pharynx along the Eustachian tube; the spon- taneous rupture of the drum-head and escape of the pus s usually followed by relief to the paiii and other symptoms. This condition may arise idiopathically, or as the result of cold, but it is most commoply met with inTHE EAB—AFPECTIONS OP THE MIDDLE EAR 209 . . „ , , Acute Catarrh. cliildreii in the course of one of the exanthemata, and more especially in connection with scarlet fever, owing to the spread of inflammation along the Eustachian tube from the pharynx. When occurring in children its course is often very insidious, or perhaps moi*e often the symptoms are altogether overlooked, for it generally happens that the pus has made its way through the membrana tympani before the case comes under observation. 358. Chronic Catarrh of the Middle Ear is one of the Chronic Catarrh, most frequent and obstinate dtuses of deafness. It may com© on as the result of the acute disease, or gradually and insidiously without any apparent cause. In many cases it is associated with obstruction of the Eustachian tube, the result of thickening and relaxa- tion of the mucous membrane about its orifice and lining its interior (170). Accumulations of mucus, fluid in the earlier stage, somewhat inspissated ia the later, often occur in the middle ear, and owing to the obstruction to the entrance of air into its interior through the Eustachian tube, the membrana tympani becomes in many cases retracted and more drawn in than is normally the case (366). Owing to the interference with the conduction of sound through the middle ear, deafness is produced, accompanied by more or less tinnitus, often of a very distressing character. The chronic purulent catarrh of the middle ear is generally the sequel of the acute affection, where per- foration of the membrana tympani has taken place ; it is characterised by a purulent discharge (350) from the external meatus, and when it has continued for some time is often associated with the presence of a polvDus (360). 14EEGUONAL SUEGEET 210 Eustachian Ob- 359 a. Inasmuch as it is tlie function of the Eusta- struction. "Throat Deaf- cliiaii tubc, by admitting air from the pharynx into the interior of the tympanum, to maintain an equal atmo- spheric pressure upon the two surfaces of the membrana tympani, it follows that in obstruction of this tube from any cause, owing to absorption of air in the tym- panum,. the atmospheric pressure on the outer surface of the drum-head will be greater than that on its inner aspect. In consequence, the inward curvature of the drum- head is increased, arid with it the chain of ossicula are forced somewhat inwards, so that undue pressure is exerted by the base of the stapes through the fenestra ovalis upon the perilymph which surrounds the mem- branous labyrinth ; the result of this is that the vibra- tions of air (by which sound is produced), falling upon the membrana tympani, do not produce the same efiect upon the internal ear, as in cases when the nonnal equilibrium is preserved. Hence deafness is caused as the result of obstruction of the Eustachian tube, so- called "throat deafness." Eustachian obstruction may be due to several causes, e.g.: Simple catarrh of the mucous membrane lining the tube, the result in many cases of extension of inflam- mation from the throat. Thickening and hypertrophy of the mucous mem- brane about the faucial opening of the tube, a condi- tion which is in many instances associated with hyper- trophy of the tonsils. Pharyngeal tumours; naso-pharyngeal polypi; ade- noid vegetations in the naso-pharynx; constriction or stricture of the tube itself ; closure by a plug of inspis- sated mucus, foreign bodies, &c. In cases where deafness is simply due to this cause,r THE EAR—AFFECTIONS OP THE MIDDLE EAR 211 Ettstaehian viz. Eustachian obstruction, and where the condition of — the middle ear is in other respects normal, hearing will at once be restored (though often only temporarily) if, on inflating the tympanum by Valsalva's or Politzer's method, or by the Eustachian catheter,* the atmo- spheric pressure upon the two surfaces of the mem- brana tympani is rendered equal. 359. Owing to the anatomical relations of the Complications of middle ear, viz. its communication with the mastoid ^iMeE^" cells on the one hand, and its close connection with the * Valsalva's method consists in the patient holding his nose, and forcing air by powerful expiration into the middle ear while the mouth is closed. Politzer's method depends upon the fact that during the act of deglutition the opposed sides of the faucial orifice of the Eusta- chian tube are drawn apart by the palate muscles. The patient takes some water in his mouth to be swallowed at a given signal J the nozzle of a Politzer's air-bag is passed about half an inch up the nostril; both nostrils are then compressed upon the nozzle by means of the thumb and forefinger of the operator's left hand; during the swallowing of the water which has to be performed at the direction of the operator, the latter with his right hand forcibly compresses the air-bag. The result of this is that air is forcibly driven' into the nasul fossae,- at this moment {i.e. during deglutition), the upper part of the pharynx being shut off from the lower, the nostrils being closed, and the orifice of the Eustachian tube being patent, the air compressed in the nasal cavity, being prevented from escaping in any other direction, passes (unless it is unable to overcome the obstruction) through the Eustachian tube into the interior of the tympanum. ^ _ Catheterism of Eustachian tuhe.~ln cases where the obstruction .8 so severe as not to yield to other methods (viz. Valsalva's or Politzer's) It may be necessary to catheterise the Eustachian tube ^.e pa«s the Eustachian catheter, and then send a Ire ^ o ; a ong blowing through it with the mouth or using a Pol tze;212 EEGIONAIi STTEGEEY Complications of Suppuration in -. . the Middle Ear. cranial cavity on the other, serious comi^lications may occur in cases of suppuration in the middle ear, viz. : 1. Caries of the thin septum of. bone which forms the roof of the tympanum and separates it from the cranial cavity may at any time occur, and, as a con- sequence, meningitis, or cerebral abscess, may be pro- duced. 2. The same effects may be produced as the result of extension of disease to the internal ear, and thence through the internal auditory canal to the interior of the cranial cavity. 3. Suppuration in the mastoid cells, and caries or necrosis of their walls (311) is very liable to be pro- duced as the result of extension of inflammation from the tympanum into their interior; and owing to the fact that the mastoid veins open directly into the lateral sinus, absorption of inflammatory products is very likely to take place, and as a consequence s&ptiecemia or pyaemia may be produced. 4. Pohjpi (360) often appear when the purulent dis- charge has continued for some time, and by blocking up the external meatus, and in this way obstructing the free discharge of pus from the middle ear, they may indirectly assist in producing any of the above complications. Polypi. 360. Aural Polypi almost invariably spring from the mucous membrane lining the middle ear, and they are generally found in cases where a purulent discharge has been in existence for some time, growing outwards through a perforation in the membrana tympani, which is usually found to be present. The growth may be of small size, just showing itself through the opening in the membrane, or it may appearTHE EAR—AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR 213 poiypi, externally, projecting from the external meatus as an irregular mass of a reddish colour. It appears to originate in an excessive growth of the granulation tissue which is generally found to line the middle ear in cases of chronic purulent catarrh, for it is by a subsequent development of the granulation tissue into fibrous or fibre-cellular tissue that the little tumour, or polypoid growth, is eventually produced. A polypus is usually accompanied by a purulent dis- charge from the external meatus, and deafness is gene- rally present, for independently of the condition of the middle ear which usually co-exists, the polypus will itself mechanically interrupt the passage of sound to the labyrinth. Total deafness is not, however, usually present, unless the auditory canal is completely oc- cluded. In cases where the external meatus becomes com- pletely blocked up, the polj pus may, by preventing the free discharge of pus, induce purulent absorption, or meningitis, or cerebral abscess may be produced (369). 361. Inflammation of the Membrane lining the Mastoid Disease of Mas- Cells, in many cases going on to suppuration, and lead- ing to caries or necrosis of their bony walls, is not uncommonly met with in cases of disease of the middle ear (358). This condition is characterised by pain and tenderness over the mastoid process, with more or less redness and swelling behind the ear. If suppuration occurs, the pus may make its way internally through the inner wall of the mastoid cavity into the cavity of the skull, a result which is often followed by fatal con- sequences ; or it may continue to discharge through the middle ear and external meatus ; or, making its way externally through the outer wall of the mastoid cells, an abscess may form behind the ear (14), andDisease of Mas- toid Cells. 214 EEGIONAL SUEGEET when this has burst and discharged its contents, a sinus will be left leading down to carious or necrosed bone, portions of which may, from time to time, be dis- charged. In other cases meningitis may be excited, or throm- bosis occurring in the lateral sinus into which the mastoid veins open, embolism and death from pyaemia may be produced.} CHAPTER XXVII THE BAB Affections of the Internal Ear 362. Nervous Deafness^ viz. loss of hearing depending Nervous Deaf- upon some abnormal condition of the receptive as op- posed to the conducting media of the ear maj be due to affections of the internal ear, auditory nerve, or brain itself. This condition may depend therefore oa various causes, e.g.: Hypersemia or inflammation of the labyrinth; haamor- rhiage into its interior; Meniere's disease (365). Affections of the labyrinth secondary to disease of the middle ear. Severe concussion of the brain. Intra-cranial tumours pressing upon, or implicating, the auditory nerve. Lesions at the base of the brain involving the audi- tory ner^e or internal ear. Meningitis. Congenital syphilis (363), The loss of hearing dependent upon any of these causes is often complete, and is generally accompanied by tinnitus, and in many cases by attacks of vertigo coming on from time to time. 363. Children the subjects of congenital syphilis very deafness in Cou- •'■'^ geuitalSypliilia.Deafness in Con. REGIONAL SUEGEET genital St/pMiis. frequently develop symptoms of deafness between the ages of five and fifteen years. The loss of hearing, which in the majority of cases affects both ears, is, as a general rule, somewhat rapidly developed; as it is usually attended by tinnitus, often of a severe cha- racter, and as there is generally an entire absence of any evidence of disease in the conducting media of the ear, this condition is believed to depend upon some morbid condition of the nervous or receptive apparatus of the organ of hearing. The subjects of this affection will generally present other evidences of the constitutional disease (60). Implication of In- 364. Fractures through the middle fossa of the base ternal Ear in fractured Base of the skull, implicating the bony labyrinth and caus- ing rupture of the membrana tympani, are often accom- panied by a discharge of blood (351) or of serous fluid (352) from the external meatus. Meniere's 365. Meniere's Disease, or " Labyrinthine Vertigo,'" is the term applied to a peculiar affection supposed to depend upon some morbid condition affecting solely and primarily the internal ear (labyrinth or semi- circular canals). As a primary affection, it is characterised by sudden accession of deafness, rapidly becoming complete, in a person whose hearing has been previously normal, accompanied by tinnitus, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, faintness, cold sweats, unsteadiness of gait or complete inability to walk. At the same time, the mind remains entirely clear, the intellect being unaffected. Coming on suddenly and without any previous evidence of disease, this condition is believed to depend upon an inflammatory affection of the internal ear, accompanied either by a htemorrhagic or a serous exu- dation into its interior, in some cases of traumaticTHE EAU—AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR ^'^'^ jifg^i^^e's Disease. origin, in others due to tlie giving way of degenerated blood-vessels. In many cases, however, a similar condition is, in reality, secondary to some pre-existing disease in the middle ear, symptoms of which will have heen present, and evidence of which will be detected on careful examination.CHAPTEE XXVIII THE BAR Diagnosis of Cause and Seat of Deafness Diagnosis of Cause In diagnosing the cause and seat of deaf ness, whetlier Deafness, it is due to some morbid condition of the nervous 1. History and (internal ear) or conducting apparatus (external meatus Syriiptoms. tympanum) of the ear, much information will be gained from the history of the case and the symptoms which are present (otorrhoea, &c.). 3. Examination On examination with the speculum, the presence of him! cerumen, foreign bodies, polypi, &c., and the various affections of the external meatus, membrana tympani, and middle ear, already described (339—361), can generally be detected. 3. Examination In all cascs the throat should be carefully examined, for many cases of deafness, especially in children, are due to thickening and a relaxed condition of the mucous membrane about the orifice of the Eustachian tube, causing obstruction of it (170—358). 4. Tuning-fork Independently, however, of the history and symptoms which are present, much information can be gained by the use of the tuning-fork.* * " Thus, let a vibrating tuning-fork be placed on the top of the head of a person with good hearing; after it has ceased to be beard in that position, if it be placed at a little distance from the external ear, it will be heard quite plainly ; showing that sonorous vibrations make a greater impression on the auditory nerve whenDIAGNOSIS OF CAUSE AND SEAT OF DEAFNESS 219 " Suppose the meatus to be closed with cerumen, or the tympanum to be obstructed with morbid products, the result of catarrh, the same effect will follow; and in the case of a patient with the auditory nerve un- affected, he will hear the tuning-fork more loudly on the side which is deaf from these causes, as either interfere with the outward passage of sound. "A person in whom the functions of one or both auditory nerves are impaired will hear the tuning-fork (on the vertex) less loudly than he should do in the one or in both ears, and in severe cases will not hear it at all. " It follows that, if one ear only be deaf, the tuning- fork will be heard better on this side if the disease is in the middle ear, and worse if it be in the labyrinth." In cases where deafness is simply due to Eustachian obstruction (viz. catarrhal thickening of the mucous membrane about its orifice or lining its interior, closure by a plug of inspissated mucus, &c.), and where the affection has not been so long neglected that serious changes have taken place in the tympanum, the loss of hearing will often readily disappear (though in many cases only temporarily) on inflating the middle ear by Diagnosis o f Cause and Seat of Deafness. 6. Inflation of Tynipanum. they are transmitted through the condacting apparatus than through the cranial bones. " Again, if the tuning-fork be placed on the vertex, and the external auditory meatus on one side be closed, the sound will be heard more intensely on this side than on the other. " This is also true in respect of the voice of the person on whom the experiment is being made, and in both cases is due to the fact that when the meatus is closed, the waves of sound in their passage out from the tympanum through the meatus are reflected again and agiiin, and therefore their effect on the auditory nerves becomes intensified " (Dalby, * Diseases of the Ear').maff„on, of Cause REGIONAL SURGERY and Seat of Deafness. ^j^g different methods, e. g. Politzer's, Valsalva's, or by means of the Eustachian catheter. (Note, p. 211.) 6. Tinnitus Tinnitus is always an important symptom in making a diagnosis as to the cause of deafness, for it is present in a great variety of affections, alike of the external, middle, and internal ear. "Any condition which produces pressure on the labyrinth or tympanic membrane may give rise to this symptom. A piece of cerumen lying in contact with the membrane is a familiar example or one, and some cases of Eustachian obstruction of the other. " In this latter instance, the pressure of air on the external surface of the membrane being greater than on the internal, the membrane is retracted, in its turn the handle of the malleus is drawn inwards, and the stapes in this way is unduly pressed on the fenestra ovalis. " When the cerumen is removed in the one case, and the tympanum inflated in the other, in the immediate disappearance of tinnitus we recognise cause and effect, and are able to explain the phenomenon, " If in cases of catarrh of the middle ear the tinnitus does not disappear after inflation of the tympanum, it is in all probability due either to a partial or complete anchylosis in some part of the chain of ossicles, or else is dependent on causes situated in the labyrinth. " As a rule, when it is dependent on pressure due either to disease of the middle ear, to impacted ceru- men, or foreign bodies in the meatus, it is not of that aggravated character which it assumes when its origin must be sought for in the deeper structure. " With persons in whom there is no evidence what- ever of catarrh, either from the history or from ca.reful examination of the middle ear, in whom the deafness* Diseases of the Ear ')• DIAGNOSIS OF CAUSE AND SEAT OP DEAFNESS 221 has slowly come on and advanced to a high degree, tinnitus is a very common symptom; also in those cases of extreme and total deafness which are met with in the subjects of inherited syphilis; .... it is obvious that in such cases it is of nervous origin" (Dalby,PEINCIPAL WOEKS EEFEEEED TO. Betant—' The Practice of Surgery.' Eeichsen—' ScieBce and Art of Surgery.' Holmes—' A Treatise on Surgery.* Holmes—'A System of Surgery.' Heath—' The Student's Guide to Surgical Diagnosis.' Lawson—' Diseases and Injuries of the Eye.' Nettleship—' Diseases of the Eye.' Dalbt—' Diseases of the Ear.' BiTENETT—'A Treatise on the Ear.' MoEEis—'A Manual of Skin Diseases.' &c. &c. &c.Cerebri hernia, 15 Aapergilli, 199 INDEX Abscess, alveolar, 71 — of antrum, 71 — of external meatus, 201 — of face, 38 — of middle ear, 208 — of neck, 150 — of orbit, 134 — of palate, 99 — of parotid gland, 45 — of scalp, 10 — of septum nasi, 60 — of tongue, 95 — post-pharyngeal, 112 Acne, 32 Adenitis of neck, 142 Adenoid vegetations of naso- pharynx, 59 Air-passages, injuries of, 165 — foreign bodies in, 168 Alopecia, 23, 24 Anchyloblepliaron, 125 Anchylosis of jaw, 75 Aneurism, aortic, 156 — arterio-venouji, 157 — carotid, 153 — cervical, 153, 155 — innominate, 156 — orbital, 138 — subclavian, 156 Angular curvature of spine, 178 Anthrax, 159 Antri hydrops, 68 Antrum, dropsy of, 68 — abscess of, 71 Aortic aneurism, 156 Aphasia, 192 Aphonia, 191,192 Atresia oris, 46 Auricle, affections of, 195 — tumours of, 196 Bell's palsy, 40 Black eye, 37 Blood tumour. Cf. HaBmatoma. Brain, compression of, 29, 30 — concussion of, 28, 30 — inflammation of, 31 Branchial fistula, 163 Bronchocele, 151 Bursal cyst of neck, 150 Calculi, salivary, 86 — of tonsil, 107 Cancrum oris, 39 Carbuncle, facial, 39 — of back of neck, 159 Carcinoma of glands of neck, 147 — of jaw, 70 — of lip, 65 — of nose, 57 — of oesophagus, 117 — of pharynx. 111 — of spine, 182 — of tongue, 90 — of tonsil, 107 Caries of cervical vertebrae, 114, 175 — of external meatus, 201 — of orbit, 136 Carotid aneurism, 153 Catarrh of middle ear, 209 Cellulitis, orbital, 134 Cephalhematoma, 13INDEX 224 Cerebi'o-spinal fluid, collection of, 15 Cerumen, 199 Chalk-stones, 198 Chancre of eyelid, 122 — of lip, 64 — of tongue, 93 — of tonsil, 108 Charbon, 39 Cheek, affections of mucous lining of, 85 Cicatrices in neck, 162, 164 — round mouth, 37 Cleft palate, 97 Collections of cerebro-spinal fluid, 15 Compression of brain, 29, 30 Concussion of brain, 28, 30 Congenital syphilis. Cf. Sy- philis. Contusion of eyelid, 37 — of scalp, 25 Coryza, 52 Craniotabes, 18 Cranium, hypertrophy of, 19 — shape of, in rickets, 19 Croup, 185,186 Curvature of spine, 177 Cyst, bursal, of neck, 150 — dentigerous, 69 — hydatid. Cf. Hydatid. — Meibomian, 124 — mucous, of lip, 65 — sebaceous. Cf. Sebaceous. Cystic tumours of neck, 149 Deafness, diagnosis of cause of, 218 — in congenital syphilis, 215 — nervous, 215 — throat, 210 Dentigerous cyst, 69 Deviation of septum nasi, 60 Dilatation of oesophagus, 120 Dislocation of hyoid bone, 167 — of lower jaw, 77 , — of spine, 172 Distension of fmutal sinus, 42 Dyspliagia, llf Dyspnoea, 191 Ear, affections of, 195 — middle, affections of, 208 — internal, affections of, 215 Ectropion, 126 Ecchymosis of eyelid, 123 Eczema, 21 — impetiginodes, 22 Emphysema of eyelid, 123 — of face, 46 — of neck, 163 — of orbit, 136 Encephalocele, 3 Enchondroma of jaw, 70 — of nasal fossa, 57 — of orbit, 138 Entropion, 126 Epicauthus, 125 Epiphora, 131 Epithelioma of face, 34 — of lip, 65 — of nose, 52 — of oesophagus, 117 — of palate, 98 — of pharynx, 111 — of scalp, 10 — of tongue, 90 — of tonsil, 107 Epulis, 102, 103 Erysipelas of face, 38 — of scalp, 17 Eustachian catheterism, 211 — obstruction, 210 Eversion of lip, 66 Exophthalmos, 133 Exostosis of cranium, 9 — of external meatus, 201 — of frontal sinus, 43 — of jaw, 70 — of nasal fossa, 58 — of orbit, 137 Eyelids, affections of, 121 Face, emphysema of, 46 — na3vi of, 40 — oedema of, 47 Facial carbuncle, 39 — paralysis, 40INDEX 225 Facial spasm, 42 Fatty tumour. Cf. Lipoma, Fibroma of jaw, 69 — of orbit, 138 — of scalp, 11 Fissures of lip, 62, 63 Fistula, aerial, 162 — branchial, 163 — in neck, 162 — lachrymal, 127, 130, 131 — oesophageal, 162 — pharyngeal, 162 — salivary, 38 Foreign body in air-passages, 168 — in external meatus, 200 — in nose, 53 — in oesophagus, 119 Fracture of cartilages of larynx, 167 — of frontal sinus, 43 — of glenoid cavity, 78 — of hyoid bone, 167 — of lower jaw, 77 — of nasal bones, 52 — of skull, 25 — of spine, 173 — of upper jaw, 73 Frontal eminences, prominence of, 37 — sinuses, affections of, 42 Fungating sebaceous cyst, 6 Fungous tumours of dura mater, 9 Gland, lachrymal, affections of, 129 — parotid, affections of, 44 — thyroid, affections of, 151 Glands, lymphatic, of scalp, affections of, 11 of neck, affections of, 142 Glossitis, acute, 94 — chronic superficial, 87 Goitre, 151 Gums, affections of, 102 Gumboil, 71 Gumma of orbit, 138 — of palate, 99, 100 Gumma of pharynx, 113 — of scalp, 7 — of tongue, 93 Hare-lip, 62 Hsematocele of neck, 149 Haematoma of auricle, 196 — of scalp, 12 — of septum nasi, 60 Head, tumours of, 2 Hernia cerebri, 15 Herpes labialis, 63 — zoster, 22 Hordeolum, 122 Horns, 11 Hydatid cyst of neck, 150 of orbit, 138 Hydrencephalocele, 3 Hydrocephalus, 21 Hydrops antri, 68 Hygroma or hydrocele of neck, 149 Hyoid bone, dislocation of, 167 fracture of, 167 Hyperostosis of spine, 181 Hypertrophy of cranium, 19 — gum, 102 — lip, 65 — tongue, 95 Ichthyosis linguaj, 87 Impetigo capitis, 22 Innominate aneurism, 156 Jaw, anchylosis of, 75 — closure of, 74 — necrosis of, 72 Jaw, lower, alteration in shape of, 78 dislocation of, 77 enlargement of, 73 fracture of, 77 periostitis of, 76 tumours of, 74 Jaw, upper, fracture of, 73 tumours of, 67 Joint, tomporo-maxillary, dis- eases of, 75 15INDEX 226 Keloid of Addison, 48 — of Alibert, 48 — tumour of auricle, 197 Lachrymal gland, affections of, 129 — sac, affections of, 130 — fistula, 127, 130, 131 Larynx, injuries of, 166 — aifeetions of, 184 — foreign bodies in, 169 Laryngitis, 184, 186, 187 Lateral curvature of spine, 179 Leontiasis ossea, 20 Leprosy of face, 36 — of larynx, 194 Linguse ichthyosis, 87 — psoriasis, 87 Lips, afi'ections of, 62 Lipoma nasi, 33 — of neck, 159 — of scalp, 11 Lupoid ulcer of face, 34 of nose, 52 Lupus, 33 Lymphadenoma of neck, 146 Lymphatic glands of neck, af- fections of, 142 Lymphosarcoma of neck, 148 Macroglossia, 95 Macrostoma, 62 Malformation, congenital, of mouth, 46 of ear, 195 Malignant pustule, 39 Mastoid cells, disease of, 213 Meatus, externus, affections of 199 Meibomian cyst, 124 Membrana tympani, affections of, 205 Meniere's disease, 216 Meningocele of vault of skull, 3 — of nasal fossa, 54 Microstoma congenitum, 46 Middle ear, affections of, 208 Moles, 5 MoUuscum contagiosum, 33,125 Molluscum fibrosum of scalp, 11 Morphaja, 48 Mouth, affections of, 46, 84 Mucocele, 130 Mumps, 45 Myxoedema, 47 Nasal bones, fracture of, 52 necrosis of, 53 — calculi, 54 — duct, obstruction of, 132 — fossa, adenoid vegetations of, 59 \ enchondroma of, 57 i meningocele of, 54 osteoma of, 58 — mucous membrane, hyper- trophy of, 54 ulceration of, 53 — polypi, 54 Nasi lipoma, 33 — septum, affections of, 60 Nsevi of auricle, 197 — of eyelid, 124 — of face, 40 — of gum, 102 — of lip, 65 — of tongue, 96 — of orbit, 140 — of scalp, 5, 7 Natiform eminences, 18 Neck, affections of, 142 — injuries of, 165 Necrosis of cartilages of larynx, 190 — of cranium, 17 — of jaw, 72 — of palate, 100 — of orbit, 136 Nervous deafness, 215 Nodes, 7,15 Nose, affections of, 51 Oidema glottidis, 185 — of face, 47 OSsophagus. affections of, 115 (Esophagoccle, 120 Orbit, affections of, 133 Oris atresia, 46227 INDEX Oris cancrum, 39 Osteoid thickenings round an- terior fontanelle, 17 Osteoma. Cf. Exostosis. Osteo-malacia, cranium in, 21 Osteitis deformans, cranium in, 19 — spine in, 178 Otitis, 200 Otorrhcea, 202 Ozsena, 52 Palate, affections of, 97 — cleft, 97 Palsy, Bell's, 40 Papilloma of eyelid, 124 — of scalp, 11 Paralysis, facial, 40 — of oesophagus, 118 — of pharynx, 114 — of vocal cords, 192 Parotid gland, affections of, 44 Parotitis, or mumps, 45 Perforation of mfembrana tym- pani, 205 — of palate, 98 — of septum nasi, 60 Periostitis of lower jaw, 76 — of orbit, 135 — of skull, 7, 15 Pharyngitis, 109, 110, 111 Pharyngocele, 113 Pharynx, affections of, 109 Phthiriasis, 121 Pityriasis, 22 Politzer's method of inflation, 211 Polypi, aural, 202, 212 — nasal, 54 — naso-orbital, 57 — naso-pharyngeal, 57 — of antrum, 69 — of frontal sinus, 43 Post-pharyngeal abscess, 112 Pott's puffy tumour, 14 Prominence of che'>k, 37 — of frontal emiuehee, 37 Psoriasis linguse, 87 — of scalp, 22 Ptosis, 127 Puffy tumour. Pott's, 14 Puncta lachrymalia, affections of, 131 Pustule, malignant, 39 Ranula, 85 Retro-pharyngeal abscess, 112 Rheumatic arthritis of jaw, 75 of spine, 177 Rickets, cranium in, 19 — lower jaw in, 78 — spine in, 178 — teeth in, 82 Rodent ulcer, 34 Rupture of membraua tympani, 206 — of oesophagus, 120 — of trachea, 168 Salivary calculi, 86 — fistula, 38 Sarcoma of cranium, 9 — of jaw, 70, 74 — of nasal fossa, 56 — of palate, 99 — of pharynx, 113, 114 — of spine, 182 — of tonsil, 107 Scalds of larynx, 168 — of pharynx, 119 Scalp, affections of, 17 — injuries of, 25 — tumours of, 2 Scrofula. Cf. Struma. — senile, 143 Sebaceous cysts of auricle, 197 of external meatus, 202 of eyelid, 124 of face, 40 of neck, 149,160 of orbit, 124 of scalp, 4, 5, 6 sublingual, 86 Senile scrofula, 143 Sinus of face, 38 — of neck, 161,162 — of scalp, 17 — over mastoid process, 19228 INDEX Skull, fractures of, 25 Spasm of glottis, 193 Spine, affections of, 172 — injuries of, 172 Spina bifida, 180 Spondylitis deformans, 177 Sterno-mastoid muscle, affec- tions of, 157 Stomatitis, 84 Stricture of larynx or trachea, 189 — of nasal duct, 132 — of oesophagus, 116 Struma, 48 Strumous adenitis of neck, 143 — diathesis, 48 — pharyngitis, 110 — scars on neck, 162 — teeth, 82 — ulceration of face, 36 of lip, 63 of neck, 161 Stye, 122 Subclavian aneurism, 156 Symblepharon, 125 Syphilis, congenital, 42 deafness in, 215 teeth in, 80 Syphilitic affections of lip, 64 — of palate, 98, 100 — of pharynx, 110 — of tongue, 92 — of tonsil, 106, 108 — ulceration of face, 36 Tarsal cyst, 124 Tarsi tinea, 121 Teeth in congenital syphilis, 80 — in rickets, struma, 82 — craggy, 83 — mercurial, 81 — rocky or honey-combed, 81 Throat deafness, 210 — wounds of, 165 Thyroid gland, affections of, 151 Tinea decalvans, 24 — favosa, 23 — tarsi, 121 — tonsurans, 23 Tinnitus, 220 Tongue, affections of, 87 Tonsillitis, 105 Tonsils, affections of, 105 Tophi, 198 Torticollis, 158 Trachea, foreign bodies in, 169 — injuries of, 166, 168 Tracheocele, 194 Trichiasis, 126 Tumours of auricle, 196 — of eyelid, 123 — of external meatus, 201 — of lachrymal gland, 130 — of larynx, 190 — of lower jaw, 74 — of nasal fossa, 54 — of neck, 144 — of orbit, 136 — of parotid gland, 44 — of pharynx, 113 — of scalp, 2 — of septum nasi, 60 — of upper jaw, 67 — of vault of cranium, 2 — Pott's puffy, 14 Tympanum, affections of, 208 Tympani membrana, affections of, 205 Ulcer, cancerous, of neck, 162 — lupoid, of face, 34 — strumous, of face, 36 of neck, 161 — syphilitic, of face, 36 Ulceration of buccal mucous membrane, 85 — of eyelid, 122 — of external meatus, 201 — of face, 36 — of gum, 104 — of larynx, 188 — of lip, 63 — of nasal mucous membrane, 53 — of neck, 161, 162 — of palate, 98 — of pharvnx, 111 — of tonsil, 106, 107INDEX 229 Uvula, elongation of, 98 Valsalva's metliod of inflation, 211 Vocal cords, paralysis of, 192 — spasm of, 193 Watery fluid, discharge from ear, 203 Watery fluid, discharge from nose, 58 Wounds of scalp, 25 — of throat, 165 Wry neck, 158 I Xanthelasma or xanthoma, ; 125 fRINTED BY J. B. ADLARD, BARTHOLOMEW CLOStli1 [Catalogue C] LOND'ON, March, 1882. J. & A. CHUECHILL'S MEDICAL CLASS BOOKS. AlfATOMY. BRAUNE.—An Atlas of Topographical Ana- tomy, after Plane Sections of Frozen Bodies. By "Wilhelm BBAtjNE, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Leipzig. Translated by Edward Bellamy, F.R.C.S., and Member of tbe Board of Examiners ; Sm-geon to Chai-ing Cross Hospital, and Lecturer on Anatomy in its School. "With 34 Photo-lithographic Plates and 46 Woodcuts. Large imp. 8vo, 40s. FLOWER.—'D'mgvsims of the Nerves of the Human Body, exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, -with their Distribution to the various Eegions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. By William H. Flower, F.R.C.S., F.R.S., Htmterian Professor of Comparative Anatomy, and Conservator of the Museum, Eoyal College of Sm-geons. Third Edition, containing 6 Plates. Eoyal 4to, 12s. GODLEE.—An Atlas of Human Anatomy: illustrating most of the ordinary Dissections; and many not usually practised by the Student. By Eickman J. Godlee, M.S., F.E.C.S., Assistant-Surgeon to University College Hospital, and Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy in University College. With 48 Imp. 4to Coloured Plates, containing 112 Figures, and a Voliune of Explanatory Text, with many Engravings, 8vo, £4 148. 6d. HEATH.—Practical Anatomy: a Manual of Dissections. By CnuisTOPiiRu Heath, F.E.O.S., Holme Professor of Clinical Surgeiy in University CoUege and Surgeon to the Hospital. Fifth Edition. With 24 Coloured Plates and 269 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 15s. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. 8^ A. ChurchiWs Medical Class Books. 2 AN AT O MY—continvsd. HOLDEN.—A Manual of the Dissection of the Human Body. By Luther Holden, F.R.C.S., Consiilting-Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Fourth Edition. Revised by the Author and John Langton, F.E.C.S., Assistant Surgeon and Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. "With Engravings. 8vo, 16s. By the same A uthor. Human Osteology : comprising a Descrip- tion of the Bones, with Delineations of the Attachments of the Muscles, the General and Microscopical Structure of Bone and its Development. Sixth Edition, revised by the Author and James Shutek, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Royal Free Hospital. With 61 Lithographic Plates and 89 Engravings. Royal 8vo, 16s. ALSO, Landmarks, Medical and Surgical. Third Edition. 8vo, 3s. 6d. MOBMIS.—The Anatomy of the Joints of Man. By Henry Mokris, M.A., F.R.C.S., Sirrgeon to, and Lecturer on Ana- tomy and Practical Surgery at, the Middlesex Hospital. With 44 Plates (19 Coloured) and Engravings. Svo, 16s. The Anatomical Remembrancer; or, Com- plete Pocket Anatomist. Eighth Edition. 32mo, 3s. 6d. WAGSTAFFK—The Student's Guide to Human O.steology. By Wm. Warwick Wagstaffe, F.R.C.S., Assistant- Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, St. Thomas's Hospital. With 23 Plates and 66 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 10s. 6d. WILSON — BUCHANAN — CLARK. —Wilson's Anatomist's Vade-Mecum: a System of Human Anatomy. Tenth Edition, by George Buchanan, Professor of Clinical Surgery in Uie University of Glasgow, and Henry E. Clark, M.R.C.S , Lecturer on Anatomy in the Glasgow Royal Inflrmary School of Medicine. With 450 Engravings, including 26 Coloured Plates. Crown Svo, 16s. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. ^ A. ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 3 BOTANY. BENTLEY.—A Manual of Botany. By Robert Bentlet, F.L.S., M.B.C.S., Professor of Botany in King's CoUege and to the Phaimaceutical Society. With 1185 Engravings. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 15s. BENTLEY AND TEIMEN.—Medicinal Plants: being descriptions, with original Eigures, of the Principal Plants employed in Medicine, and an account of their Properties and Uses. By EoBBBT Bentlet, E.L.S., and Hbney Teimen, M.B., F.L.8. In 4 Vols., large Svo, with 306 Coloured Plates, bound in half morocco, gilt edges, £11 Us. CHEMISTRY. BERNAYS.—Notes for Students in Chemistry; being a Syllabus of Chemistry compiled mainly from the Manuals of Eownes-Watts, Miller, Wurz, and Schorlemmer. By Albebt J. Bernays, Ph.D., Professor of Chemiati-y at St. Thomas's Hospital. Sixth Edition. Ecap. Svo, 3s. 6d. By the'same Author. Skeleton Notes on Analytical Chemistry, for Students in Medicine. Ecap. Svo, 2s. 6d. BLOXAM.—Chemistry, Inorganic and Organic ; with Experiments. By Charles L. Bloxam, Professor of Chemistry in King's CoUege. Fourth Edition. With nearly 300 Engravings. Svo, 16s. By the same A utbor. Laboratory Teaching; or, Progressive Exercises in Practical Chemistry. Fourth Edition. With 83 Engravings. Crown Svo, 5s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. &^ A. ChurcliilCs Medical Class Books. 4 CHEMISTRY—co?i^mMed BOWMAN AND ^i^OX^ilf.—Practical Chemistry, including Analysis. By Johx E. Bowman, formerly Professor of Practical Chemistry in King's College, and Charles L. Bloxam, Professor of Chemistry in King's College. With 93 Engravings. Seventh Edition. Pcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. aiCTT^^.—Practical Chemistry and Qualita- tive Inorganic Analysis. An Elementary Treatise, specially adapted for use in the Laboratories of Schools and Colleges, and by Beginners. By Prank Clowes, D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in University College, Nottingham. Third Edition. With 47 Engravings. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d. F0WNE8 AND WATTS.—Physical and Inorganic Chemistry. Twelfth Edition. By George Pownes, P.E.S., and Henry Watts, B.A., P.E.S. With 154 Bngravmgs, and Coloured Plate of Spectra. Crown Svo, 8s. 6d. By the same A uihors. Chemistry of Carbon - Compounds, or Organic Chemistry. Twelfth Edition. With Engravings. Crown Svo, 10s. LUFF.—An Introduction to the Study of Che- mistiy. Specially designed for Medical and Pharmaceutical Students. By A. P. Luff, P.I.C., P.C.S., Lecturer on Chemistry in the Central School of Chemistry and Pharmacy. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. TIDY.—A Handbook of Modern Chemistry, Inorganic and Organic. By C. Meysiott Tidy, M.B., Professor of Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence at the London Hospital. S%-o, 16s. VAOHER.—A Primer of Chemistry, including Analysis. By Abthub Vaoheb. ISmo, Is. NEW BURLINGTON BTREET.J. ^ A. Churchill's Medical Class Books. CH.'EM.lSTIiY—contmiied. VALENTIN.—Introduction to Inorganic Chem- ista-y. By "William G. Valentin, P.C.S. Third Edition. With 82 Engravings. Svo, 6s. 6d. By the same Author. A Course of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. Fifth Edition by W.E. Hodgkinson, Ph.D. (Wurzbui-g), Demon- strator of Practical Chemistry in the Science Trainiag Schools, With Engravings. Svo, 7s. 6d. ALSO, Chemical Tables for the Lecture-room and Laboratory, In Five large Sheets, 5s. 6d. CHILDREN, DISEASES OP. DAY.—A Treatise on the Diseases of Children. For Practitioners and Students. By William H. Day, M.D., Physician to the Samaritan Hospital for Women and Children. Crown Svo, 128. ea. ELLIS.—A Practical Manual of the Diseases of Children. By Edward Ellis, M.D., late Senior Physician to the "Victoria Hospital for Sick Children. With a Formulary. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 10s. SMITH. —Clinical Studies of Disease in Children. By Eustace Smith, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to H.M. the King of the Belgians, and to the East London Hospital for Children. Second Edition. Post Svo. [In preparation. By the same Author. On the Wasting Diseases of Infants and Children. Third Edition. Post Svo, 8s. 6d. iSTj^J/iV^Ji?.—Compendium of Children's Dis- eases ; a Handbook for Practitioners and Students. By Johann Stei.ser, M'.D. Ti-anslated by Law.son Tait, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Birmingham Hospital for Women, &c., Svo, 12s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 6J. 8f A. ChurcJdWs Medical Class Books. DENTISTRY. SEWILL.—The Student's Guide to Dental Anatomy and Surgery. By Henky E. Sewill, M.E.C.S., L.D.S., late Dental Surgeon to the "West London Hospital. With 77 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. 6d. ^Jfjm—Handbook of Dental Anatomy and Sm-gery. For the TTse of Students and Practitioners. By John Smith, M.D., F.B.S.E., Dental Surgeon to the Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh, Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. 6d. 8T0CKEN.—^\&ments of Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics, with Pharmacopoeia. By James Stocked, L.D.S.E.C.S., late Lecturer on Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics and Dental Surgeon to the National Dental Hospital. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. [In the press. TAFT.—A Practical Treatise on Operative Dentistry. By Jonathan Taft, D.D.S., Professor of Operative Surgery in the Ohio College of Dental Surgery. Third Edition. "With 134 Engravings. Svo, 18s. TOMES {0. >Sr.).—Manual of Dental Anatomy, Human and Comparative. By Chablks S. Tomes, M.A., F.E.S. Second Edition. With 191 Engravings. Crown Svo, 12s. 6d. TOMES (J. and C. S.).—A Manual of Dental Surgeiy. By John Tomes, M.R.C.S., F.E.S., and Charles S. Tomes, M.A., M.R.C.S., F.R.S. ; Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology at the Dental Hospital of London. Second Edition. With 262 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 14s. EAR, DISEASES OP. BURNETT.—The Ear: its Anatomy, Physio- logy, and Diseases. A Practical Treatise for the Use of Medical Students and Practitioners. By Charles H. Burnett, M.D., Am-al Surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital, Philadelphia. With S7 Engrav- ings. Svo, ISs. NEW BURLINGTON STBEE't.J. ^ A. Churchill's Medical Class Books. 7 EAE, DISEASES OY—continued. DALBY—On Diseases and Injuries of the Ear. By William B.Dalbt.P.E.C.S., Aural Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Aural Surgery at, St. George's Hospital. Second Edition. "With Engravings. Feap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. JONES.—A Practical Treatise on Aural Sur- gery. By H. Macnaughton Jones, M.D., Professor of the Queen's University in Ii-eland, Surgeon to the Cork Ophthalmic and Aural Hos- pital. Second Edition. With 63 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. By the same A uthor. Atlas of the Diseases of the Membrana Tympani. In Coloured Plates, containing 59 Figures. With Ex- planatory Text. Cro-wn 4to, 21s. rORENSIC MEDICINE. OG^>STOiV.—Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence. By Francis Ogston, M.D., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence and Medical Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Edited by Feancis Ogston, Jun., M.D., Assistant to the Professor of Medical Jurispru- dence and Lecturer on Practical Toxicology in the University of Aberdeen. With 12 Plates. Bvo, 18s. TAYLOR.—The Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence. By Alfred S. Taylor, M.D., F.R.S., late Professor of Medical Jurisprudence to Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. With 189 Engravings. 2 Vols. 8vo, 31s. 6d. By the same A uthor. A Manual of Medical Jurisprudence. Tenth Edition. With 55 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 14s. ALSO, On Poisons, in relation to Medical Juris- prudence and Medicine. Third Edition. With 104 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 16s. WOODMAN AND TIDY—A Handy-Book of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. By W. Bathurst Woodman, M.D., F.R.C.P.; and C. Mbymott Tidy, M.B. With 8 Lithographic Plates and 116 Wood Eng^ravings. 8vo, 31s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. 8f A. Churchill's Medical Class Books. 8 I^MW BURLINGTON STREET. HYGIEI^E. PARKER—A Manual of Practical Hygiene. By Edmund A. Paekbs, M.D., P.E.S. FifthEdition by P. De Chaumont, M.D., E.E.S., Professor of Military Hygiene in the Army Medical School. With 9 Plates and 112 Engravings. 8vo, 18s. WILSON.—A Handbook of Hygiene and Sani- tary Science. By Geoege Wilson, M.A., M.D., Medical Officer of Health for Mid Warwickshire. Fourth Edition. With EngraTings. Cro-wn 8vo, 10s. 6d. MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS, BINZ AND SPARKS.—The Elements of Thera- peutics: a Clinical Guide to the Motion of Medicines. By C. BiNZ, M.D., Professor of Pharmacology in the University of Bonn. Translated and Edited -with Additions, in conformity with the British and American Pharmacopceias, by Edwabd I. Spabks, M.A., M.B., F.E.C.P. Lond. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. OTf^iV.—Tables of Materia Medica ; com- prising the Contents, Doses, Proportional Composition, and Methods of Manufacture of Pharmacopoeial Preparations. By Isambard Owen, M.B., M.R.C.P., Lecturer on Materia Medica at St. George's Hospital. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. ROYLE AND HARLEY.—A Manual of Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By J. Forbes Eoyle, M.D., F.E.S., and John Haelbt, M.D., F.E.C.P., Physician to, and Joint Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at, St. Thomas's Hospital, Sixth Edition. With 139 Engrav- ings Crown 8vo, 15s. THOROWGOOD.—The Student's Guide to Materia Medica. By John C. Thoeowgood, M.D., F.E.C.P., Lecturer on Materia Medica at the Middlesex Hospital. With Engravingrs. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. WARING.—A Manual of Practical Therapeu- tics. By Edward J. Waring, G.B., M.D., F.E.C.P. Thii-d Edition. Fcap. Svo, 12s. 6d.J. ^ A. Churchilfs Medical Class Books. 9 MEDICINE. BARCLAY.—A Manual of Medical Diagnosis. By A. "Whtte Barclay, M.D., F.E.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Medicine at, St. George's Hospital. Thii-d Edition. Foap. 8vo, 10s. 6d. CHAMTJERIS.—The Student's Guide to the Practice of Medicine. By Matthew Charteris, M.D., Professor of Materia Medica, University of Glasgow; Physician to the Eoyal Inflrm- ary. "With Engravings on Copper and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. FENWIOK.—The Student's Guide to Medical Diagnosis. By Samuel Fenwick, M.D., F.B.C.P., Physician to the London Hospital. Fifth Edition. With 111 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. By the same A uthor. The Student's Outlines of Medical Treat- ment. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. FLINT.—Clinical Medicine : a Systematic Trea- tise on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Disease. By Austin Flint, M.D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine, &c., in BeUevue Hospital Medical College. 8vo, 20s. HALL.—Synopsis of the Diseases of the Larynx, Lungs, and Heart: comprising Dr. Edwards' Tables on the Examina- tion of the Chest. With Alterations and Additions. By P. Db Havilland Hall, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant-Physician to the West- minster Hospital. Royal 8vo, 2s. 6d. SANSOM.—Manual of the Physical Diagnosis of Diseases of the Heart, including the use of the Sphygmograph and Cardiograph. By A. E. Sansom, M.D., F.E.C.P., Assistant- Physician to the London Hospital. Third Edition, with 47 Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. WARNER.~^tudent's Guide to Medical Case- Taking. By Francis Warner, M.D., Assistant-Physician to the London Hospital. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. A. ChurchilVs Medical Class Books. 10 MEDICIWE—cowtaecZ. WHITTAKER.—Students' Primer on the Urine. By J. Teavis "Whittaker, M.D., Clinical Demonstrator at the Eoyal Infli-mary, Glasgow. With Illustrations, and 16 Hates etched "on Copper. Post 8vo, 4s. Bd. MIDWIFERY. BARNES.—Lectures on Obstetric Operations, including the Treatment of Hsemorrhage, and forming a Guide to the Management of Difficult Laboiu-. ByEoBBBT Babnbs, M.D., F.E.C.P., Obsteti-ic Physician to, and Lecturer on Diseases cx "Women, &c., at St. George's Hospital. Third Edition. With 124 Engravings. 8vo, 18s. CLAY.—The Complete Handbook of Obstetric Surgery; or. Short Rules of Practice in every Emergency, from the Simplest to the most formidable Operations connected with the Science of Obstetricy. By Chaeles Clat, M.D., late Senior Surgeon to, and Lectui'er on Midwifery at, St. Mary's Hospital, Manchester. Third Edition, With 91 Engravings. Ecap. Svo, 6s. 6d. RAMSBOTHAM.—The Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine and Surgery. By Fbancis H. Ramsbotham, M.D., formerly Obstetric Physician to the London Hospital. Eifth Edition. With 120 Plates, forming one thick handsome volume. Svo, 22s. REYNOLDS.—Notes on Midwifery: specially designed to assist the Student in preparing for Examination. By J. J. Reynolds, M.E.C.S. Ecap. Svo, 4s. ROBERTS.—The Student's Guide to the Practice of Midwifery. By D. Lloyd Eobbrts, M.D., E.R.C.P., Physician to St. Maiy's Hospital, Manchester. Second Edition. With 111 Engrav- ings. Ecap. Svo, 7s. SGHROEDER.—A Manual of Midwifery ; includ- ing the Pathology of Pregnancy and the Puerperal State. By Kael ScHKOEDEK, M.D., Profcssor of Midwifery in the University of Erlangen. Translated by Cuaelbs H. Caktbe, M.D. With Engravings. Svo, 12s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. A. CkurchilVs Medical Class Boohs. MIDWIFERY—continued. SWAYNE.—OhstQtvic Aphorisms for the Use of students conunencing Midwifery Practice. By Joseph G. Swayne, M.D., Lecturer on Midwifery at the Bristol School of Medicine. Seventh Edition. "With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. MICROSCOPY. CARPENTER.—The Microscope and its Revela- tions. By William B. Carpenter, C.B., M.D., E.E.S. Sixth Edition. "With 26 Plates, a Coloured Frontispiece, and more than 500 Engravings. Crown 8vo, 16s. ir4i2>S^.—Microscopical Section-Cutting: a Pi-actical Guide to the Preparation and Mounting of Sections for the Microscope, special prominence heing given to the subject of Animal Sections. By Dr. Sylvester Mabsh. Second Edition. With 17 Engravings. Ecap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. MARTIN.—A Manual of Microscopic Mounting. By John H. Martin, Member of the Society of Public Analysts, &c. Second Edition. With several Plates and 144 Engravings. Svo, 7s. 6d. OPHTHALMOLOGY. DAGUENET.—A Manual of Ophthalmoscopy for the Use of Students. By Dr. Daguenet. Translated by C. S. Jeaffeeson, Surgeon to the Newcastle-on-Tyne Eye Infirmary. With Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 5s. HIGGENS.—Hints on Ophthalmic Out-Patient Practice. By Charles Higgbns, F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Assistant-Sur- geon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmology at, Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, 3s. JONES.—A Manual of the Principles and Practice of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery. By T. Wharton Jones, r.P.,.C.8., F.R.S., late Ophthalmic Surgeon and Professor of Ophthalmo- logy to University College Hospital. Tlurd Edition. With 9 Colom-ed Plates and 173 Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 12s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET. aJ. A. ChurchiWs Medical Class Books. 12 OPHTH ALMOLO GY—continued. MACNAMARA.~A Manual of the Diseases of the Eye. By Charles Macnamaea, P.E.C.S., Surgeon to 'Westminster Hospital. Third Edition. With 7 Coloured Plates and 52 Engravings. Ecap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. NETTLESHIP.—rh& Student's Guide to Diseases of the Eye. By Edward Nettleship, P.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery at, St. Thomas's Hospital. Second Edition. "With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. [In Ihe Press. WOLFE.—On Diseases and Injuries of the Eye : a Course of Systematic and Clinical Lectures to Students and Medical Practitioners. By J. R. Wolfe, M.D., F.K.C.S.E., Senior Surgeon to the Glasgow Ophthalmic Institution, Lectui-er on Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery in Anderson's CoUege. With 10 Coloured Plates, and 120 Wood Engravings, 8vo. PATHOLOGY. JONES AND SIEVEKING.—A Manual of Patho- logical Anatomy. By C. Handfield Jones, M.B., F.E.S., and Edward H. SiBVEKiNG, M.D., F.R.C.P. Second Edition. Edited, with consider- able enlargement, by J. F. Payne, M.B., Assistant-Physician and Lecturer on General Pathology at St. Thomas's Hospital. With 195 Engravings. Crown Svo, 16s. LANCEREAUX.—Atlas of Pathological Ana- tomy. By Dr. Lancbreaux. Translated by W. S. Greenfield, M.D., Professor of Pathology in the University of Edinburgh. With 70 Coloured Plates. Imperial Svo. £5 5s. FlflOffOTF". — Post-Mortem Examinations: a Description and Explanation of the Method of Performing them, with especial reference to Medico-Legal Practice. By Professor Rudolph Virchow, Berlin Charite Hospital. Translated by Dr. T. B. Smith. Second Edition, with 4 Plates. Ecap. Svo, 3s. 6d. WILKS AND MOXON—'Lectures on Pathologi- cal Anatomy. By Samuel Wilks, M.D., F.R.S., Physician to, and Lecturer on Medicine at, Guy's Hospital; and Walter Moxon, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to, and Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at, Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. With 7 Steel Plates. Svo, 18s. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. A. CkurchilVs Medical Class Books. 13 PSYCHOLOGY. BUGKNILL AND TUKE.—A Manual of Psycho- logical Medicine: containing the Lunacy Laws, Nosology, etiology. Statistics, Description, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Insanity, ■with an Appendix of Cases. By John C. Bucknill, M.D., F.R.S., and D. Hack Toke, M.D., F.E.C.P. Fourth Edition, with 12 Plates (30 Figures). 8vo, 2Bs. PHYSIOLOGY. CARPENTER.—Vvinci^les of Human Physio- logy. By William B. Caepenter, C.B., M.D., F.R.S. Ninth Edition. Edited by Henry Power, M.B., F.R.C.8. With 3 Steel Plates and 377 Wood Engravings. 8vo, 31s. 6d. DALTON.—A Treatise on Human Physiology : designed for the use of Students and Practitioners of Medicine. By John C. Dalton, M.D., Professor of Physiology and Hygiene in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. Sixth Edition. With 316 Engravings. Eoyal 8vo, 20s. FREY.—The Histology and Histo-Chemistry of Man. A Treatise on the Elements of Composition and Structui-e of the Human Body. By Heinbich Feet, Professor of Medicine in Zurich. Translated by Arthur E. Baekbr, Assistant-Surgeon to the Uni- versity College Hospital. With 608 Engavings. Svo, 21s. RUTHERFORD.—Outlines of Practical Histo- logy. By William Edthbbfoed, M.D., F.B.S., Professor of the Insti- tutes of MedioLae in the University of Edinburgh ; Esaminer in Physiology in the University of London. Third Edition. With Engravings. Crown Svo (with additional leaves for Notes). [In preparation. SANDERSON.—Handhoo'k for the Physiological Laboratory : containing an Exposition of the fundamental facts of the Science, with explicit Directions for their demonstration. By J. Bordon Sanderson, M.D., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of Physiology in University College; E. Klein, M.D., F.R.S., Assistant-Professor in the Brown Institution; Michael Foster, M.D., P.R.S., Praslector of Physiology at Trinity College, Cambridge ; and T. Laudee Brunton, M.D., F.E.8., Lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Bai-tholomew's Hospital Medical College. 2 Vols., with 123 Plates. Svo, 248. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. 8f A. ClmrcUWs Medical Class Books. 14 SURGERY. BRYANT. —A Manual for the Practice of Surgery. By Thomas Bbyant, F.B.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, Guy's Hospital. Third Edition. With 672 Engravings (nearly all original, many being coloured). 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 28s. BELLAMY.—Th.& Student's Guide to Surgical Anatomy; a Description of the more important Surgical Eegions of the Human Body, and an Introduction to Operative Surgery. By Edwaed Bkllamt, F.E.C.S., and Member of the Board of Examiners ; Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, Charing Cross Hospital Second Edition. With 76 Engravings. Pcap. 8vo, 7s. CLARK AND WAGSTAFFE. — Outlines of Surgery and Surgical Pathology. By F. Le Geos Clabk, F.E.C.S., F.E.S., Consulting Surgeon to St. Thomas's Hospital. Second Edition. Eevised and expanded by the Author, assisted by W. W. Wagstaffe, F.E.C.S., Assistant-Sm-geon to St. Thomas's Hospital. 8vo, 10s. 6d. DRUITT.—Th^ Surgeon's Vade-Mecum; a Manual of Modern Surgery. By Egbert Deditt, F.E.C.S. Eleventh Edition. With 369 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 14s. FERGUSSON.—A System of Practical Surgery. By Sir William Fbegosson, Bart., F.E.C.S., F.E.S., late Surgeon and Professor of Clinical Surgery to King's College Hospital. With 463 Engravings. Fifth Edition. 8vo, 2l8. HEATH.—A Manual of Minor Surgery and Bandaging, for the use of House-Surgeons, Dressers, and Jimior Practi- tioners. By Christopher Heath, F.E.C.S., Hohne Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College and Surgeon to the Hospital. Sixth Edition. With 115 Engravings, Fcap. 8vo. 5s. 6d. By the same Author. A Course of Operative Surgery: with Twenty Plates drawn from Nature by M. Levbille, and Coloured by hand under his direction. Large 8vo, 40s. also. The Student's Guide to Surgical Diag- nosis. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET,J. 8f A. ChurchiWs Medical Class Books. 15 SURGERY— continued. MAUNDER.—Operative Surgery. By Charles F. MAnNDER, F.R.C.S., late Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, the London Hospital. Second Edition. "Witli 164 Engravings. Post Svo, 6s. PJBRIE.—The Principles and Practice of Svirgery. By William Pikkib, F.R.S.E., Professor of Surgery in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition. With 490 Engravings. Svo, 28s. TERMINOLOGY. DUNGLISOK—Medical Lexicon : a Dictionary of Medical Science, containing a concise Explanation of its various Subjects and Terms, -with Accentuation, Etymology, Synonymes, &c. By EoBLEY DuNGLisoN, M.D. New Edition, thoroughly revised by EiCHAED J. DuNGLisoN, M.D. Eoyal Svo, 28s. MATNE.—A Medical Vocabulary: being an Explanation of all Terms and Phrases used in the various Depart- ments of Medical Science and Practice, giving their Derivation, Meaning, Application, and Pronunciation. By Eobekt G. Mayne, M.D., LL.D., and John Mayne, M.D., L.E.C.S.E. Fifth Edition. Foap. Svo, 10s. 6d. WOMEN, DISEASES OP. BARNES.—A Clinical History of the Medical and Surgical Diseases of Women. By Eobbet Barnes, M.D., F.E.C.P., Obstetric Physician to, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women, &c., at, St. George's Hospital. Second Edition. With 181 Engravings. Svo, 2Ss. Z)C7iV(7.4iV.—Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of Women. By J. Matthevts Duncan, M.D., Obstetric Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Svo, 8s. EMMET. —The Principles and Practice of Gynaecology. By Thomas Addis Emmet, M.D., Surgeon to the Woman's Hospital of the State of New York. With 130 Engravings. Eoyal Svo, 24s. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.J. Sf A. C/mrchill's Bfedical Class Books. 16 WOMEN, DISEASES O¥~continued. GALABIN.—ThQ Student's Guide to the Dis- eases of Women. By Alfred L. GALABm, M.D., F.E.C.P., Assistant Obstetric Physician and Joint Lecturer on Obstetric Medicine at Guy's Hospital. Second Edition. With 70 Engraying-s. Fcap. 8yo, 78. 6d. RETNOLDS.~l^otes on Diseases of Women. Specially designed for Students preparing for Examination By J J Ebynolds, M.E.C.S. Pcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. • • ^M/m—Practical Gynaecology: a Handbook of the Diseases of Women. By Heywood Smith, M.D., Physician to the Hospital for Women and to the British Lying-in Hospital With Engravings. Second Edition. Crown Byo. [In preparation. WEST AND DUNCAN.—l^ectures on the Dis- eases of Women. By Charles West, M.D., F.E.C.P. Fourth Edition. Eevised and in part re-wi-itten by the Author, with numerous additions, by J. Matthews Dttncan, M.D., Obstetric Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 8vo, 16s. ZOOLOGY. CHAUVEAU AND FLEMING.—The Compara- tive Anatomy of the Domesticated Animals. By A. Chauveau Professor at the Lyons Veterinary School; and George Fleming' Veterinary Surgeon, Epyal Engineers. With 450 Engravings Svo' 31s. 6d. iTf/XL^r.—Manual of the Anatomy of Inverte- brated Animals. By Thomas H. Huxley, LL.D., P.E.S. With 156 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo, 163. By the same Author. Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals. With 110 Engravings. Post Svo, 12s. WILSON—The Student's Guide to Zoology: a Manual of the Pi-inciples of Zoological Science. By Andrew Wilson, Lecturer on Natural History, Edinbuigh. With Engravings. Fcap. Svo, 6s. 6d. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.