CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 71 handful of Brussels sprouts, half a gill of young peas, a few French beans cut small, and a handful of asparagus heads. Add a pinch of mignonette pepper; allow the soup to boil three minutes longer, and having placed some duchess’ crusts in the tureen, pour the soup upon them and serve. Sportsman’s Clear Soup With two teaspoons mould about one dozen very small quenelles of any sort of game; poach these in broth, and then drain them on a clean napkin, and afterwards put them into a stew-pan containing two quarts of strong bright consomme of game; place the soup on the fire, and allow it to boil very gently by the side for a few minutes ; ascertain that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. This soup takes its special title from the species of game of which it may chance to be made. As, for instance, Sportsman’s Clear Soup of Pheasant, of Partridge, of Hare, etc., etc. Deslignac or Imperial Consomme Put three eggs into a basin with a little grated nutmeg and salt; beat them together, mixing therewith a gill of strong consommt: of fowl or game; strain this preparation through a hair sieve into a plain mould, which has been buttered for the purpose. Steam this in the same way as you would any other custard, and, when done, put it to cool in the larder. Cut the custard thus prepared into fanciful shapes, and having placed them in the tureen, pour on gently three pints of boiling, strong, bright consomm^, of the same kind that is used to mix the custard with. Consomme Paysanne This is to be prepared in exactly the same manner as the Flemish soup, except that, instead of the Brussels sprouts, the following must be used : the leaves of half a small cabbage cut into pieces the size and shape of a shilling, the heart of a lettuce slit into thick shreds, a few leaves of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil. After these have been boiled with the other vegetables for ten minutes, add to them one dozen small scallops of braised beef; season with a little mignonette pepper, and serve. Bread Soup a la Jardiniere Rasp four or five small rolls, and take the crumb out carefully without disturbing the shape of the rolls. When the crumb is taken out, put the rolls or hollow crusts on a baking-sheet in the oven for the purpose of making them crisp, as well as to give them a light- brown colour. An hour before dinner put the crusts thus prepared into a deep silver dish, and pour over them one pint of consommd of fowl to cover them. Place the dish containing the crusts on a trivet over a moderate fire, and there allow the crusts to become gratinated, that is to say, to acquire, by means of boiling down, a concentration of flavour, and that appearance of crispness which is as alluring to the