256 THE MODERN COOK or fricandeau pan with sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a bunch of herbs ; cover these over with thin layers of fat bacon, and then place the fricandeau on the top of all; moisten with good stock in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, but not to cover it; place a round of paper well buttered on the top, and cover with the lid. The fricandeau should be allowed to braise very gently for about three hours, either in the oven or upon a very slow fire, during which time it must be frequently basted with its own liquor; when nearly done, the paper and the lid must be removed in order to enable the larding to dry, and it should be frequently basted with its own glaze to give it a bright, shiny appearance. Care must be taken to prevent the fricandeau from browning too much during the latter part of the process. Put some puree of green peas (see p. 26) in the centre of the dish, and with two forks carefully lift up the fricandeau, and place it upon the puree; pour a little half-glaze round the base, and serve. Note,—Fricandeaux prepared as above may also be served with every kind of vegetable puree or garnish described in these recipes. Fricandeau a la Macedoine This must be trimmed and larded as in the foregoing recipe; then an incision of about three inches in length should be cut through its entire thickness, and a round or oval paste-cutter placed in it to distend the hollow part, so as to give it the appearance of a circle. Prepare and braise the fricandeau as before, and when done place it on a dish upon a base of quenelle force-meat; fill the centre of the fricandeau with a well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some thin Espagnole round the entree, and serve. Noix1 of Veal a la Regence In this case the udder must be left adhering to the noix, or cushion of veal; it must be neatly trimmed, and the udder made to represent the form of a half-moon, with the lean part (within the inner semicircle) smoothly pared, and larded in the same manner as a fricandeau. This should then be placed in an oval stew-pan upon a bed of vegetables, covered with layers of fat bacon, moistened with a glass of sherry or Madeira, and about a pint of good stock. The udder must be covered with layers of fat bacon, to keep it white; then place a thickly-buttered paper over all, and cover with the lid. The noix must be very gently braised on a slow fire, or in the oven, and frequently basted with its own liquor, care being taken that the larding is nicely glazed; when nearly done the bacon must be removed from the udder, and the noix placed on a dish; garnish with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), incorporated with the glaze from the noix; stick three ornamental silver skewers, decorated with a large truffle, cock’s-comb, and a crayfish, in the udder; glaze the larding, and serve. 1 Noix is the French technical term for that part of a leg of Veal generally used for fricandeaux ; the English term for which is cushion, or Kernel of Veal.