THE MODERN COOK 244 set it to braise gently for two hours and a half upon a slow fire. When the tongue is done, take out, trim, and put into a stew-pan with its own liquor, free from fat, strained through a sieve, and boiled down to half its quantity. About half an hour before sending to table, set the tongue on a very slow fire to simmer until warmed through; roll in its glaze, dish up with some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16) under it, garnish round with a border of potato quenelles (see p. 80), and serve. Ox=Tongue with Sauerkraut For this purpose choose a smoked tongue, and let it soak in cold water for about twelve hours previous to cooking it. The tongue must then be parboiled for half an hour, and plunged in cold water; remove the root, and truss with a skewer and some string to keep it in shape; next place it in an oval stew-pan with half a pound of sauerkraut (previously well washed in several waters), a carrot, an onion, stuck with six cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient ordinary stock to cover the whole; place a well-buttered paper on the top, and cover; then leave to braise very gently on a slow fire for about three hours. When the tongue is done, take up on a dish, trim, and put in a small oval stew-pan with a little good stock, to be kept hot by the side of the fire. Meanwhile remove the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs from the sauerkraut, and press it to absorb all the fat. Then glaze the tongue and place it in a dish, garnish neatly round with the sauerkraut, pour some Poivrade sauce over the whole, and serve. Note.—Reindeer tongues may be cooked in the same manner as the foregoing; they must, however, be soaked in cold water for four-and-twenty hours previous to being cooked. ENTREES OF MUTTON Mutton Cutlets Plain Choose the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off as much of the rib-bones as may be necessary in order to leave the cutlet-bones not more than three inches long; the spine-bone must also be removed with the saw, without damaging the fillet. Next cut the neck of mutton thus trimmed into as many cutlets as there are bones; detach the meat from the upper part of each bone, about three-quarters of an inch, then dip them in water and flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away the sinewy part and any superfluous fat. The cutlets must then be seasoned with pepper and salt, brushed over with clarified butter, and nicely broiled, over or before a clear fire. When done, dish up neatly, and serve with plain brown gravy under them. Cutlets prepared in this way may also be served with either of the following sauces: Poor Man’s, Piquante, Italian, Tomato, Provengale, Poivrade, Shalot, Gravy.