132 THE MODERN COOK Cod’s Sounds a la Qasconne Prepare the sounds as usual, steep them in two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a chopped shalot, and parsley, season with a little mignonette pepper; just before dinner, fry the sounds in batter, dish them up in the form of a wreath, pour under them some Gasconne sauce (see p. 17), and send to table. Cod’s Sounds a la Royale The sounds should be prepared and fried as in the preceding recipe; and afterwards dished up similarly, with white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6) poured under them, and sent to table. Cod’s sounds may also be dressed a la Poulette, a l’lndienne, a la Bechamel, a la Maitre d’Hotel in the same manner, of course substituting any of the above sauces for the Ravigote. SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL Fried Soles with Shrimp Sauce Medium-sized soles are preferable for frying, as when large in size and thickness they must necessarily remain a considerable time in the frying fat, and will thereby contract a strong flavour, as well as absorb a greater portion of the fat: they are also less likely to appear crisp, so essential a requisite in all fried fish. Clean one or more soles thoroughly, remove both skins, cut off the head trans- versely, and with a pair of large scissors trim away the fins close up to the fillets; then wash and wipe the soles dry, and roll them in a little flour; dip them first in some beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs, and place the fish on a dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time; then fry them in some hot fat; when done, drain them on kitchen paper, and dish them up with some fried parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat full of Shrimp, Anchovy, Dutch, or Lobster sauce. Boiled Soles For boiling, crimped soles are preferable ; but when these are not to be obtained, choose large and thick fish. Trim and skin two good- sized soles, and rub them over with lemon juice; sprinkle over some salt, and place in boiling water for fifteen to twenty minutes; when done, dish them up, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with Dutch, Lobster, Shrimp, Anchovy, or French Caper sauce. Water Souchet of Fillets of Soles Having filleted one or two soles and trimmed the fillets, take hold of each and fold one end over the other; batter the ends together with the handle of a knife, trim off any rough fragments that may remain about them, and place them in circular order in a saute-pan; then pour over them the souchet prepared in the usual manner with the bones and trimmings, etc. Let the fillets thus arranged boil for five or six minutes; ascertain that they are done, and serve them in