T53 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Crimped Skate, Fried Trim and dry some pieces of skate; after which dip each piece into flour preparatory to its being again dipped in beaten egg, and then rolled in very fine bread-crumbs; turn the pieces of skate round into shape again and fry them to a golden colour, and dish them up on a napkin with a border of fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces recommended for boiled skate. Skate with Black Butter Sauce Boil the skate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with a border of fried parsley, and pour over it some well-seasoned Black Butter sauce (see p. 22). Fried Skate a l’ltalienne Egg and bread-crumb and fry the fish as directed for fried skate; when done, place it on a dish, pour under it a good Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), and serve. Skate with Fine Herbs au Gratin Butter a baking-dish, and after first turning the pieces of skate round, lay them neatly in the dish, sprinkle over some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and a very little shalot; season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of consomme ; then shake some fine browned bread-crumbs or raspings over the whole, and set it in the oven to bake; when done, place the pieces of skate on the dish, in the same position which they occupied on the baking- dish ; reduce the liquor they have been baked in, and add it to a gill of Espagnole or Brown Italian sauce, mix in a small piece of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice; pour the sauce round the fish; shake some fresh raspings over the whole, and then set the dish (if it be silver) on the stove to gratinate or consolidate the sauce and fish for a minute or two; pass the red-hot salamander over it, and send to table. Crimped Skate a la Pascaline Turn the pieces of skate round in the usual manner, boil, drain, and dish them up; then pour over the fish a well-seasoned Pascaline sauce (see p. 5) made rather piquante; garnish with glazed crofltons of fried bread, and send to table. Skate a la Royale Boil the skate till it is half done, drain it, and after allowing it to cool, cut it into pieces about two inches long; place these in a basin and marinade them in a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Twenty minutes before dinner drain the pieces of skate, and then having first dipped each piece separately in some frying batter prepared for that purpose, fry them a golden colour in plenty of hot fat; dish the skate up in a pyramidal form, sauce round with Ravigote or Poivrade sauce, garnish the dish with alternate groups of fried parsley, and serve.