116 THE MODERN COOK SALMON AND TROUT Salmon a la Chambord Take three and a half to four pounds (middle cut) of a salmon. Boil the salmon in salt and water; when done, drain it on a dish, and immediately take off the whole of the skin, and put the fish to cool in the larder. In the meantime prepare three or four ounces of quenelle force-meat of whitings, part of which should be coloured with some pounded lobster coral, and as soon as the salmon is cold, spread a layer of this over the whole surface of the fish, taking care to smooth it with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; this part of the process being completed, ornament the salmon by laying some fillets of soles which have been contises with truffles in a slanting position across the back, fastening the ends under the belly of the salmon by means of the force-meat. Then place the salmon on a buttered drainer of a fish-kettle ; moisten with a pint of stock and a glass of dry champagne, garnish with a bunch of parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, sliced carrot, and onion; place a buttered paper over the whole, and put the lid on. Next make it boil on the fire, and then put it in the oven or over a slow fire to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; drain the salmon and place it on a dish, and keep warm till wanted for table. Meanwhile, strain the liquor in which the salmon has been braised, reduce it to a glaze, add two gills of finished Espagnole or brown sauce, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, a pat of anchovy butter, and lemon juice; and pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie. Just before sending to table, arrange eighteen quenelles of whiting, one dozen mushrooms, two or three truffles, and six crayfish round the salmon, sauce the fish round in the inner circle with the hot sauce, and serve. Let there be some of the sauce with truffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles of whiting in it sent to table in a boat. Salmon a la Regence Boil two and a half to three pounds of salmon, remove the skin, and mask it over with strong glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral; place the salmon on an oval croustade of fried bread on the dish ; pour round it some Regence sauce, finished with some anchovy butter and lemon juice; and garnish it with alternate groups of twelve quenelles of salmon (mixed with some finely chopped truffles), six or eight crayfish, and eighteen button-mushrooms ; send up some of the sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Q^noise Boil two and a half to three pounds of salmon, skin it, and place it on a dish; mask it with Genoise sauce (see p. 9), and garnish it round with twelve lobster quenelles, eighteen button mushrooms, and the remainder with chopped truffles. All these garnishes are