THE MODERN COOK 5r4 Bouillon. A plain clear soup. Unclarified beef broth. Bouquet (garni) or fagot consists of a handful of herbs—parsley, green onions, a small bay leaf, and a sprig cf thyme—neatly tied together. Bourgeoise ('a la). Surname given to dishes prepared in a simple, homely style. Braise, Mirepoix, Marinade, Po£le, Blanc are various methods used for imparting flavour to braised meats, and also for keeping calves’ heads, poultry, etc. white, while they are being braised. Braising signifies a slow process of simmering, or stewing in a closely covered vessel over a slow fire. Brioche. A species of light French yeast cake resembling Bath buns. Canape. Slices of bread or pastry cut into various sizes ; much used for hors- d’oeuvre and savoury dishes. Cannelons or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, etc. Caramel. Burnt sugar, occasionally used as a make-shift for colouring. Carbonade. Stewed or braised meat. Caviare. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Cervelle. Brain. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Charlotte consists generally of very thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified butter and placed in symmetrical order in a plain mould garnished with fruit or preserve ; also biscuit-lined moulds filled with cream. Chartreuse. A mixed preparation, consisting of vegetables, meat, or fruit symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould. Chartreuse A. la Parisienne, etc. An ornamental entree or side-dish, com- posed chiefly of quenelle force-meat, the interior being garnished with ragouts, scallops, etc. Chaud-Froid. Chicken, game, cutlets, etc., masked with cold sauce and served cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly. Cold Entrees. These consist of cutlets, ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultry, and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish, or shellfish, boars’ heads, potted meats, etc. They are appropriate for ball suppers, public breakfasts, and upon all occasions where a cold collation is served. Compote generally means fruits preserved in syrup; this word is also used to designate certain savoury dishes prepared with pigeons, quails, or larks, mixed with peas or mushrooms, etc. Condiments. Highly flavoured seasoning, spices, etc. Consomme. Clear strong broth, much used in the preparation of soups, sauces, etc. Contise. When small scallops of truffles, ox-tongue, etc., are inlaid, as orna- ments by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are called contises. Cotelettes. Cutlets. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also applied to thin slices of meat from other parts. Court-Bouillon. Name given to a rich fish broth ; a highly seasoned fish stock in which fish is boiled. Cr£cy. Dishes named “ & la Crecy ” generally contain carrots in the form of a puree. Crapes. French pancakes. Crates. Giblets of poultry or game.