REMOVES OF BEEF 163 lettuces, divided in halves, and around these place a border of plovers’ eggs, having a small sprig of green tarragon stuck into the pointed end of each; place a white heart of lettuce on the top, and serve. REMOVES OF BEEF Braised Roll of Beef a la Flamande Take a piece of sirloin of beef, well covered with fat, weighing about six pounds; bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the upper part; lard the fillet in a slanting position by inserting with a larding needle some pieces of larding bacon about a quarter of an inch square and three inches long; then roll the beef up close, and fasten it round with a string so as to secure its shape. Break up the bones and place them with the trimmings at the bottom of a braising- pan; then place the roll of beef on the bones, and garnish with a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, a stick of celery, and a bunch of parsley with thyme and a bay leaf, and two blades of mace; moisten with two glasses of sherry, and enough good stock or consommt; to nearly cover the beef; place over all a well-buttered paper, and after having caused it to boil, set the braising-pan to continue gently boiling on a moderate fire for about two and a half to three hours: the time for this must be regulated by the degree of tenderness of the meat. When the beef is done, drain, trim, and put it into a convenient- sized pan containing a little of the liquor in which it has been braised; and with a portion of the remaining part, make a pint of brown sauce for the remove ; boil the rest down, and with this glaze the beef. Place it on a dish, garnish round with alternate groups of trimmed shapes of glazed carrots and turnips, glazed onions, and Brussels sprouts; pour the brown sauce round the dish, and send to table. Braised Beef k la Printaniere Prepare and braise a piece of sirloin of beef, according to the foregoing directions ; dish it up, and place round it groups of young carrots (trimmed into oval shapes and glazed in the usual manner), asparagus-heads, small buds of cauliflowers, and French beans cut in the shape of diamonds; round the dish place a border of turnips cut in the form of deep saucers and filled with green peas; pour some bright Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) round the remove, glaze the beef, and stick on it three or five ornamental silver skewers, all of them garnished with carrots, turnips, etc. Braised Roll of Beef a la Polonaise Braise the roll of beef as in the previous recipe, mask it with some glaze in which beetroot juice (see p. 106) has been mixed; dish the beef up on a bed of braised red cabbage (see p. 38), garnish round with alternate groups of glazed small onions and thoroughly well-boiled beetroot cut into the shape of small pears or half-moons, and glazed; pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) round the remove, and serve.