DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 125 Sturgeon a la Perigord Prepare three to four pounds of sturgeon as in the preceding recipe, but instead of bread-crumbing it, glaze and dish it up; sauce it with a good Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), in which has been mixed some of its own liquor boiled down to glaze, a pat of anchovy butter, and a little lemon juice; garnish with a border of truffle croustades made as follows :— Choose six to eight large truffles of equal size, boil them in some wine mirepoix, cut a piece from the top of the thickness of a penny piece, scoop out the inside of the truffles, and cut the produce into thin scallops, which, after mixing with a little of the sauce, replace in the truffles; cover them with some small fillets of soles contisds with some red tongue, and turned round in the shapes and size of half-a- crown piece, and simmered in a little butter. Send up some of the sauce to table in a boat. Sturgeon a la Bourguignote Stuff and braise the sturgeon according to the foregoing directions, trim, glaze, and dish it up; then pour some Bourguignote sauce (see p. 8) round it, garnish with groups of mushrooms, glazed button- onions, small quenelles, and crayfish tails. Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. Sturgeon a l’Indienne Braise the sturgeon in some wine mirepoix, take about a pint of ■ the liquor, reduce and mix it in two tablespoonfuls of Indian Curry sauce (see p. 12) prepared for the purpose, add a pat of anchovy butter and some lemon juice, sauce the sturgeon, and garnish it round with a border of rice croustades filled with curried prawns or shrimps; ornament it with four Mtelets, each garnished with a large crayfish and a contise fillet of sole. Send up, as usual in such cases, some of the sauce in a boat. Sturgeon au Gratin with Fine Herbs This method of dressing sturgeon is useful when a sufficient remnant is left from the previous day’s dinner. In such a case cut two to three pounds of sturgeon into neatly trimmed scallops, and toss these in some reduced Allemande sauce incorporated with some of the essence of the sturgeon—previously boiled down to glaze; add one teaspoonful of fine herbs, lemon juice, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pat of anchovy butter ; mix the whole well together; put the scallops on a silver dish, piled up in the form of a dome; cover them with some fried bread-crumbs mixed with one-third part of grated fresh Parmesan cheese. About twenty minutes before dinner- time, place the dish in the oven to gratinate the scallops; pass the red-hot salamander over them to melt the cheese; pour round some of the sauce reserved for the purpose ; garnish with some croquettes of sturgeon, lobster, or potatoes, and send to table.