THE MODERN COOK 9° stock through a tammy-cloth with considerable pressure in order to extract all the goodness from the vegetables, etc. Put the broth thus prepared into a stew-pan, and having thickened it with about two ounces of white roux to the consistency of a thin sauce, work it according to the method observed for all sauces. Observe that as this sauce is for soup, it should be lighter in substance. Finish with a liaison of two yolks of egg and season accordingly, and mix in with it a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Soup of Fillets of Flounders a l’Anglaise Fillet four or six flounders, simmer the fillets in a little fresh butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. When done, place them in the soup-tureen with eighteen quenelles of trout and pour on them a soup made according to the following directions :— Put the bones and the trimmings of the flounders and the trout, from which the small quenelles are to be made, into a stew-pan with one carrot, a stick of celery, parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a few peppercorns. To these add three pints of ordinary stock from the boiling stock-pot (if possible) and a glass of Sauterne. When it has boiled for three-quarters of an hour, strain off the broth into a small soup-pot and make it into a smooth white Veloute sauce (see p. 3); just before pouring it into the soup-tureen (containing the fillets of flounders and the small quenelles of trout already mentioned) finish it by mixing in with it a liaison of two yolks of egg, half a gill of cream, and a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon juice, and cayenne pepper. Sturgeon Soup a rAmericaine Procure two pounds of fresh sturgeon, one-third of which must be trimmed and tied so as to preserve it from falling to pieces while being braised, then put it in a stew-pan, and cover it with some mire- poix (see p. 57) or wine prepared as directed. Let it boil, and then set it in the oven for about forty minutes, according to the size of the fish. When this portion of the sturgeon is done let it be put away in the larder to get cold, in order that it may be afterwards cut into scallops to be put into the soup. While the above is in course of preparation make a brown sauce with the remainder of the sturgeon as follows :— Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, then cut an onion in slices and strew over the bottom; on these place the sturgeon cut into thick slices, a carrot, one stick of celery, some parsley, a sprig of thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a dozen pepper- corns ; then add a pint and a half of good stock, and put the whole to boil briskly on the fire until the broth is nearly reduced; lessen the heat to prevent the glaze thus obtained from being burned, by which the flavour would be lost. Then proceed with this sauce exactly as shown for the treatment of brown sauce or Espagnole (see p. 3). Having thus produced a bright, thin brown sauce, finish the soup by mixing in a teaspoonful of turtle herbs, a piece of anchovy butter, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and a glass of