275 ENTREES OF PORK upon the gridiron to prevent the force-meat from burning or falling to pieces. When nicely broiled on both sides, glaze and dish up, and serve with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) under them. Pig’s Feet a la Richelieu Braise the feet, remove all the bones, and cut each foot in halves lengthwise; spread all over with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firmly set, bread-crumb them twice over, the first time dipped in egg, and the second in clarified butter: place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and fry over a moderate fire, so as to allow them time to warm through before browning. When done, dish up, and serve with some Richelieu ragout (see p. 47) under them. Black Puddings a la Fran^aise To one pint of pig’s blood add rather more than half a pint of double cream, three-quarters of a pound of the fat from the inside of a pig, cut into rather small pieces, and two large onions chopped and fried in a little butter without becoming coloured; season with a little chopped bay leaf and thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix well together, and stuff the prepared linings, taking care to allow room for tying them into lengths of about six inches. Boil the puddings, and let them remain in the water until firm to the touch ; they must not, however, be kept in the water longer than will suffice to set the stuffing. When taken out of the water, the puddings should be hung up in the larder to cool. Black Puddings a l’Anglaise The chief difference in making black puddings according to the English method lies in the omission of the nutmeg, bay leaf, and thyme, and in the addition of boiled oats or rice; in all other respects the same directions must be followed. When about to serve the black puddings, they should be scored all over to prevent them from bursting while being broiled, and when done, dished up with strips of dry toast placed between each piece of pudding: the centre of the dish should be filled with mashed potatoes to keep them quite hot. White Puddings a la Royale To half a pound of the breast of a roast fowl thoroughly pounded to a puree, add half a pint of double cream, half a pound of fine bread-crumbs, one boiled onion chopped finely, two ounces of butter, and two or three yolks of eggs; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; mix well together, put this preparation into the linings, and finish in the same manner as for black puddings. When about to send to table, score the puddings before they are broiled, and place them on the gridiron upon a sheet of oiled paper; when nicely broiled, serve them dished up with either of the following sauces: Supreme, Richelieu, Poivrade, essence of shalots, of truffles, or of mushroom.