BRAISED AND BAKED HAM 197 pressure of the hand, it is probably new; for such as these, a few hours’ soaking will suffice; but when hams are properly seasoned, they should be soaked for twenty-four hours. Foreign hams, how- ever, require to be soaked much longer, varying in time from two to four days and nights. The water in which they are soaked should be changed once every twelve hours in winter, and twice during that time in summer; it is necessary to be particular also in scraping off the slimy surface from the hams previous to replacing them in the water to finish soaking. When the ham has been trimmed and soaked, let it be boiled in water for an hour, and then scraped and washed in cold water; place it in a braising-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with sufficient common stock or broth to float the ham, and then set it on the fire to braise gently for about four hours. To obtain tender- ness and mellowness, so essential in a well-dressed ham, it must never be allowed to boil, but merely to simmer very gently by a slow fire. This rule applies to the braising of all salted or cured meats. When the ham is done, draw the pan in which it has braised away from the fire, and set it to cool in the open air, allowing the ham to remain in the braise; by this means it will retain all its moisture, for when the ham is taken out of the braise and put on a dish to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham, having partially cooled in its braise, should be taken out and trimmed, and afterwards placed in a braising-pan with some of its own stock; and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put either in the oven or on a slow fire. When warmed through, place the ham on a baking-dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it; replace it in the oven again for about three minutes to dry, and glaze it again; by that time the ham, if properly attended to, will present a bright appearance. Put it now on its dish, and garnish with well-dressed spinach (see p. 27), placed round the ham in tablespoonfuls, shaped like so many eggs; pour some bright Espagnole sauce round the base, put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. Note.—Any of our home-cured hams, dressed according to the foregoing directions, may also be served with a garnish of asparagus peas, young carrots, a Jardiniere, Macedoine, green peas, broad beans, French beans, or Brussels sprouts. Westphalia Ham a 1’Essence Trim and remove the knuckle-bone from a small Westphalia ham, and let it soak in cold water for two or three days, according to the probable length of time it may have been cured; then boil it in water for an hour, and after having washed it in cold water, put it into a large braising-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a little wine, and sufficient stock to float the ham. Then set the ham to boil, or rather to simmer, very gently on a slow fire, from five to six hours ; taking care during the process of braising