138 THE MODERN COOK manner:—Trim and place the mullets on a buttered baking-dish, season with pepper and salt, strew over them a dessertspoonful of chopped mushrooms, shalot, and parsley; moisten with a glass of sherry and a tablespoonful of brown sauce; bake and finish them exactly in the same manner as previously directed. Mullets a l’ltalienne Trim and prepare three or four mullets, put them in a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a glass of French white wine and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; bake the fish for about fifteen minutes, taking care to baste them frequently while in the oven; when done, dish them up, and mask them over with some glaze mixed with some finely pounded lobster coral; sauce them round with half a pint of Italian sauce (see p. 5) in- corporated with the liquor in which the mullets have been baked, after it has been reduced, also a few drops of essence of anchovy, a small pat of butter and lemon juice, and send to table. Mullets a la Genoise Prepare the mullets in a baking-tin as before mentioned, moisten with a glass of claret and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; when the mullets are baked, glaze them with some lobster-coloured glaze, and dish them up. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets were baked, and incorporate it with some Genoise sauce (see p. 9), together with a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon juice; sauce the mullets round, garnish with a border of large crayfish or quenelles of whiting, and send to table. Mullets au Ragofit Cardinal Prepare the mullets as h. l’ltalienne, dish them up after being glazed to a fine scarlet hue ; garnish them round with a rich Cardinal ragout (see p. 46); finish by placing a border of large crayfish or decorated quenelles of whiting round them, and send to table. Mullets a la Chesterfield Trim the mullets as before and put them into a buttered baking- tin with a glass of dry champagne, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, and a little pepper and salt; bake them in the oven, taking care to baste them frequently; when done, glaze and dish them up, reduce their liquor, and add it to some bisque of Crayfish sauce, previously prepared as follows :— Thoroughly wash and draw the gall from a dozen crayfish, put them into a stew-pan with half a carrot and half a stick of celery cut up small, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley; moisten with nearly half a pint of good stock or consomme ; boil the crayfish, and when done, remove the shells from the claws and tails carefully. Next pound the bodies, tails, and claws in the mortar, take up the mixture into a stew-pan, moisten with a tablespoonful of good Allemande sauce, and after warming the puree over the fire, rub it through a tammy or fine sieve in the usual