THE MODERN COOK 37*5 the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a sauffi of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shalot and parsley, and suitably seasoned); put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot Tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. Kromeskis of Eggs Three hard-boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of egg, \ gill Bechamel sauce, ^ teaspoonful finely chopped truffle, \ oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes (unsweetened), seasoning, frying batter, frying fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely; put them in a stew-pan, moisten with the sauce and the egg yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake, dip into frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a-folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley. Eggs a la Reine Mince rather finely half a pound or more of cold cooked chicken or turkey, freed from skin, bone, and gristle. Fry this in a little butter, and moisten with sufficient Bechamel sauce to form a light salpicon. Keep hot. Poach in slightly salted water six new-laid eggs; trim them neatly. Put the mince in a round dish, and place the eggs neatly upon this. Glaze them with liquefied meat glaze, Lemco or Bovril, and surround the dish with eight small half-moon- shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Eggs a la St. Jacques Line eight to nine small bouche-moulds with puff-paste or rough puff-paste (roll out the paste rather thinly, and stamp out the rounds necessary for lining with a fluted cutter). Prick the bottom of the paste with a fork. Fill them with rice or dried peas, and bake them in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Unmould whilst hot. Brush over the outside and inside with beaten yolk of egg mixed with meat glaze, and return to the oven for a few minutes, then let cool. Poach, in smaller sized bouche moulds1 than those first used, as many eggs as are necessary. Unmould them and let cool, then mask them with aspic, and set each in one of the prepared crusts. Decorate with chopped aspic tinted with a little spinach greening. Dish up taste- fully, and serve. Eggs a la Suisse Spread the bottom of a silver dish with one ounce of fresh butter, cover this with rather thin slices of fresh Gruyere cheese, break four to six whole eggs upon the cheese without breaking the yolks; season with grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt; pour two tablespoonfuls of double cream on the surface, sprinkle over a little grated Gruyere cheese, and set the eggs in the oven to 1 Tartlet moulds can be used in place of bouche moulds.