FISH ENTRIES I5S Planked Fish Wash and dry a fresh fish weighing about four pounds. Remove the head, then split the fish from head to tail, so that it can be flattened out on the plank. Heat the plank and brush it with oiled butter, place on the fish skin side down, and tack it on firmly. Put it into a hot oven. Mix together half a cup of butter, one cup of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Baste the fish with this mixture every ten minutes for about thirty minutes. Remove from the oven, place the plank on a dish, and garnish with lemon slices and parsley. Planked Lobster Split a large lobster, thoroughly heat the plank, lay the lobster on the plank shell side down; put it under the gas for twenty minutes, baste with butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for ten minutes longer. Garnish with small fried potato balls, grated cucum- ber, and lettuce leaves. FISH ENTRIES Boudins1 of Lobster a la Cardinal Chop the meat of a good-sized lobster very finely, put this into a mortar with part of the coral, reserving the remainder for the sauce; add two ounces of butter, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub the produce through a fine wire-sieve upon a plate; put the lobster back in the mortar with half its quantity of Panada (see p. 58), and pound these until well mixed; add one or more yolks of eggs with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix thoroughly by pounding, and then try the force-meat by poaching a small portion of it in boiling water; when done, cut it through the middle, and if the inside presents a smooth compact surface, put the force-meat into a basin, but if it appears soft and rough, add a little more Panada and another egg; divide the force-meat into six or eight parts, roll these upon a slab with a little flour into oblong boudins ; poach them with boiling water in a deep saute-pan by the fire for about twenty minutes, turning them over carefully when done on one side; drain well, trim the sides, and mask them with some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13), and dish them up in a triangular form ; fill the centre with a Cardinal ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Quenelles1 of Lobster a la Vertpre Mould one dozen tablespoonfuls of quenelles with some lobster force-meat prepared as directed above ; place them in circular order in a saut^-pan spread with butter, and poach them with boiling water, which must be poured upon a saute-pan cover held in a sloping direction against the side of the saute-pan ; put a round of buttered paper over the quenelles, and leave to simmer gently by the side of 1 All boudins and quenelles mixtures should be first tested to ascertain the consistency.