THE MODERN COOK 372 Devilled Meat Cut some thin slices of cold meat (the remains of beef, mutton, or pork), put these in a deep dish and saturate with the following marinade : A wine-glassful of claret, the juice of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of oil, one of Chili vinegar, one of Worcestershire sauce, one of mushroom ketchup; add also a pinch of mustard, some peppercorns, salt, cayenne to taste. When well seasoned, arrange the slices of meat on a buttered fireproof dish. Put a few small pieces of butter here and there on the top. Place the dish in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, and serve. Croutes a la Darvelle Six oz. tunny fish, 2 oz. potato puree, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 egg yolks, | gill cream, white pepper and cayenne to taste, 10 neatly cut anchovy fillets, 10 oval-shaped fried bread croutes. Drain the tunny fish from its oil, cut it up small and pound in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the potato puree and the grated cheese. Incorporate the egg yolks and the cream, and season to taste with pepper. Spread this mixture thickly over the previously prepared bread crofttes, and shape each neatly; place an anchovy fillet on top of each crofite; bake in a moderate oven for about eight minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. Spinach Friandises Pick, wash, drain, and cook in very little water one and a half pounds of spinach with about one ounce of butter and sufficient salt to taste. When cooked, drain the spinach and rub it through a fine sieve, reheat with a little Veloute sauce and cream. Take six or more small flat flan tins (two and a half inches in diameter) and line them with thinly rolled out short crust, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them (blind) to a golden colour. Remove the rice carefully and unmould the paste crusts. Place them on a baking-sheet, and three parts fill each with the prepared spinach. Pour over each about two tablespoonfuls of egg beaten up with an equal quantity of milk, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and bake for about five minutes, just long enough to set the egg. Dish up, put a thin round slice of cooked and glazed beef marrow on top of each, and serve hot. Russian Kniokis Four oz. semolina or Florador, £ pint milk, J pint rich white stock, bay leaf, 2 eggs, £ pint Bechamel sauce, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. butter, bread-crumbs. Put the milk and stock into a stew-pan and boil up with the bay leaf; stir in the semolina or Florador, and stir continually over the fire till boiling, then add the butter and two yolks of eggs, and continue to stir for a few minutes longer. Spread this on a buttered dish or baking-sheet and let cool. Cut the mixture into rounds or ovals, and range them on a buttered fire-proof dish ; spread a layer of Bdchamel sauce and grated cheese between each, and coat the