CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 63 not burn ; when they become slightly brown, add two quarts of veal stock or light-coloured consomme; let the soup boil, skim all the butter off as it rises to the surface, and when the vegetables are done, throw in the leaves of half a small cabbage-lettuce and a handful of sorrel, shred like the carrots, etc.; add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil; boil the whole for ten minutes longer, taste the soup in order to ascertain whether the seasoning is correct, and serve. Consomme Chiffonade Take a breast of spring chicken and boil in two quarts of good white consomme. When done and cooled, cut into small pieces, removing the skin; put these into a well-tinned stew-pan, together with the stock they were boiled in, which should be clarified if it is not sufficiently bright. Set the stew-pan on the stove-fire to boil, and then add the white leaves of a small cabbage-lettuce, a small handful of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and one head of celery shred fine. See that the soup is perfectly seasoned and of delicate flavour, and send to table. Consomme Nivernaise Take two or three turnips, cut them into the form of small cloves of garlic, fry them in two ounces of butter and a little sugar in a stew- pan over the fire to give them a light-brown colour, then drain them upon a sieve and put them into a sauce-pan. Scoop out the red part of two large-sized red carrots, blanch or parboil these for ten minutes, and, when strained, add them to the turnips ; then pour upon the vegetables two quarts of strong bright consomme, and set the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire until the vegetables are thoroughly done, taking care to skim off the butter as it rises to the surface. Ten minutes before dinner-time throw into the soup, while boiling, one dozen small Brussels sprouts that have been previously parboiled; and just before sending this soup to table, add to it about one dozen very small quenelles of pheasant. Consomme Xavier Mix with two ounces of sifted flour a gill of double cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little mignonette pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When these ingredients have been thoroughly mixed together with a wooden spoon, put the stew-pan containing them on the fire—stirring it quickly and continually until it begins to thicken, when it should be well worked with the spoon for about five minutes. By this time the batter will have assumed the appearance of a firm, compact paste ; one whole egg should then be worked into it; then add a table- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. When this paste is so far ready, make up two half-sheets of paper in the shape of a funnel, with a hole at the point a quarter of an inch in diameter, and fasten them with a pin. Into each of these papers or forcers put as much of the paste as will nearly fill it; close the large end in the same way as you would a paper of brown sugar, and with gentle pressure force the paste out at the pointed extremity on