i47 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL the fire, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; with this preparation cover the eels, and afterwards bread-crumb them—causing plenty of bread- crumbs to adhere; put the eels on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle over a few drops of melted butter, and about half an hour before dinner, place them in the oven to be baked; dish them up as in the foregoing recipe, and send to table with the Tartare sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Eel a la Poulette Stew an eel in the usual manner with white wine or stock, or merely as directed for a la Tartare, then drain, trim, and place in a clean stew-pan with some of the liquor to keep it moist. Just before dinner, dish the eel up in the centre of the dish, sauce with some good sauce a la Poulette mixed with a pat of anchovy butter; place round them alternate groups of crayfish tails tossed in lobster butter to give them a brighter colour, and some scallops of perch tossed in some green Ravigote sauce; place eight glazed crofitons of fried bread round the base, and serve. Eels a I’lndienne Stew one or more eels as directed in the foregoing recipes, dish them up in the form of a circle, garnish the centre with plain boiled rice, sauce the eels with a good Curry sauce (see p. 21), and garnish round with some rice croquettes to be made as follows:— To three ounces of boiled rice add a dessertspoonful of good Allemande sauce, some nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese; stir the whole on the fire till it has boiled two or three minutes, and set it on a plate to cool; then mould the croquettes in the form of corks, pears, or round balls, egg and bread-crumb them in the usual way, fry them a light golden colour, and use them as directed. Eels stewed and glazed according to the different modes above described, as well as when bread-crumbed and fried or baked, may also be sent to table with the following sauces: Bourguignote, Tomato, Italian (white or brown), Cardinal, Normande, Matelote Ravigote, Provengale, Poivrade, Piquante, Aurora, or Crayfish sauce. Carp a la Chambord Choose a carp1 weighing about three or four pounds, and after scalding, drawing, and thoroughly washing the fish, stuff it with some quenelle force-meat of whitings. Then lay the carp on a buttered sheet of paper placed upon the drainer of an oval fish- kettle, cover the entire fish with a coating of force-meat of whitings, keeping the head clear, and with some “ contis^s ” fillets of soles 1 This fish is held in high estimation on the Continent, especially those caught in the Rhine and Moselle. In England they are seldom good, and this is the case also with tench, both these fish being found when cooked to taste muddy : this is chiefly owing to their being taken from stagnant ponds. Those only can be expected to be free from this disagreeable peculiarity that are caught in running streams. When about to clean carp for dressing, it is necessary to extract an angular substance, called the gall-stone, which is to be found at the back of the head ; if not removed, this is sure to impart a bitter taste, and render the best fish unfit for table.