287 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE It is also customary to serve chickens, fowls, capons, or poulardes, when prepared in this fashion, with a ragoht k la Financiere, a la Parisienne, with Macedoines, or Jardinieres of vegetables, Italian, Poivrade, Tomato, or Supreme sauce. Chicken a la Montmorency Truss two small chickens, and let their breasts be entirely covered with close larding; next place them in a stew-pan containing a wine mirepoix (see p. 57), covering the unlarded parts with thin layers of fat bacon; add as much good consomme as will reach up to the larding, cover the chickens with a round of buttered paper, and set them to braise gently on a slow fire—taking care that the lid of the stew-pan be covered with live embers of charcoal to effect the glazing of the larding. When the chickens are done, dish them up, garnish with a white Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44), or a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Chickens & la Montmorency may also be dished up with an ornamental croustade in the centre, in which should be fixed five atelets garnished. Chicken a la Milanaise These should be trussed and boiled, and when done, dished up with a ragout it la' Milanaise (see Capon it la Milanaise, p. 207); they may also be garnished with a border of rissoles (see p. 468). Chicken a la Chivry Truss one or two small spring chickens so as to look very plump, boil or braise them in some white stock; and when done, dish them up. Pour under them a Chivry or Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), and send to table. Chicken a la Florentine Truss two spring chickens and lard the breast very closely with black truffles cut into strips, which must be used instead of bacon for this purpose; the chickens should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon (to prevent the truffles from drying and breaking off), then braised in white stock, and when done, dished up with an ornamental croustade of bread fried a light-brown colour and placed in the centre of the dish ; garnish with alternate groups of small quenelles of fowl coloured with lobster spawn, truffles cut in the form of olives, and small croquettes of rice mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese; sauce the chickens, without masking the breasts, with some Allemande sauce. Fill the croustade with trimmed crayfish tails tossed in a little of the sauce, and serve. Chicken a la Cardinal Draw two spring chickens; after which, with theaid of the forefinger, detach the skin as much as possible from the breasts and legs of the chickens without tearing it; the interstices between the skin and fillets, etc., should be covered with some quenelle of fowl coloured a deep red with lobster spawn. The chickens are then to be trussed