229 ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OF BREAD Chartreuse a la Cardinal Trim the fillets of three soles. Prepare some lobster quenelle force-meat (see p. 60). Then butter the inside of a plain charlotte mould, and line with the fillets of soles; next line the bottom and sides of the chartreuse with some of the lobster force-meat, in the same way as directed for the chartreuse a la Parisienne; fill the cavity with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), the sauce of which must be kept stiff, and used cold for this purpose; cover the top with a layer of force-meat, and steam the chartreuse for one hour and a half; when done, place upside down on a dish, and draw the mould off carefully in order to avoid disarranging the fillets. Garnish the edges of the chartreuse with a close border of small round truffles, pour some thin Parisian ragout (see p. 46) round the base, and serve. Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier Free from skin and bone some cold cooked game—grouse, partridge, or pheasant—and cut the meat into neat slices. Prepare a rich brown sauce flavoured with the carcase of the game (made into fumet), strain, and add a few sheets of gelatine dissolved in sufficient aspic jelly to make the sauce set, but not too firmly. The consistency of the Chaudfroid sauce must be tested before use. Line a plain mould with a layer of aspic, decorate it suitably with cooked vegetables, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, then pour in a layer of brown Chaudfroid sauce. When set, place in a layer of the slices of cold game, flavoured with seasoning and a little sherry; pour over some sauce and continue thus until the mould is full, then place it on the ice to set. Decorate the shape when dished up with red-currant jelly, cubes of aspic, and parsley. ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OF BREAD Ornamental Croustades For a croustade of ordinary dimensions, a four-pound loaf of close bread should be procured two days before it is wanted, as it must be stale for this purpose. In order to prevent waste, the loaf should be baked in an oval, square, or round tin, according to the intended form of the croustade ; and when this is required for a remove or entree, the loaf must be made of a proportionate size. When the crust has been pared off the loaf with a sharp knife, it must be carved in the form of a fluted or chased vase or cup, accord- ing to taste and fancy. The croustade thus carved must next be fried a light-fawn colour in some hot fat, preferably lard, the inside crumb carefully taken out, and the cavity smoothly covered with a thin coating of quenelle force-meat, so as to prevent the escape or absorption of the sauce from the entree; when filled, the croustade must be put in the oven for five minutes, to bake the quenelle force-meat, and be kept hot until served.