162 THE MODERN COOK Crush some ice, and embed the mould partially in this; pour a small quantity of dissolved aspic jelly in the bottom of the mould, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch, and upon this place a decoration, made as follows:—Cut some black truffles and hard-boiled white of eggs in very thin slices; stamp these out into the form of rings, diamonds, leaves, etc., and arrange them with taste on the surface of the jelly; when this is complete, the decoration must be coated with a little aspic jelly, poured over with great care so as not to disturb it: as soon as this has become set, fill the mould up with aspic, and when that also has become set, turn the border out of the mould on a dish. Fill the centre with the fillets of soles neatly piled up in a conical form, pour some green Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) over them, and garnish with a neat border of trimmed prawns’ tails. Note.—Fillets of turbot, salmon, trout, mackerel, or gurnets may be similarly treated as above; the sauce can be varied, and the dish may also be garnished either with plovers’ eggs, crayfish tails, or quarters of the white hearts of cabbage-lettuces. Some shred lettuce, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, may also be placed at the bottom of the aspic border, to pile the fillets upon. Zephires of Crab a la Royale Remove the flesh from a large crab, flake a portion and use it for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till quite smooth, then add a gill of Bechamel sauce. Season, with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic, and fill the mixture into small savarin moulds, which have been previously masked with aspic, and decorated with fine strips of truffles and strips of cucumber rind or red chilli skin. Place the little moulds on the ice for two hours, turn them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with the flaked crab flesh, decorate with lobster, coral, or chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of mayonnaise, whipped cream, a little French mustard, and a little grated horse-radish. The sauce must be kept on the ice until required for table. Lobster Salad Break the shell, and remove the meat whole from the tail and claws of a medium-sized lobster; put this into a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and reserve the pith and coral to make some lobster butter (see p. 42), which is to be thus used:—First, spread a circular foundation of the lobster butter upon the bottom of the dish; then, scoop out the centre, leaving a circular band. Drain the lobster on a cloth, cut the pieces in oval shapes, and with some of the butter (to stick the pieces firmly together) pile the lobster up in three successive rows, the centre being left hollow; fill this with shred lettuce, or salad of any kind, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; pour some scarlet Remoulade (see p. 23) or Red Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) over the salad, without masking the pieces of lobster; garnish the base with a border of hearts of