393 PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, ETC. this all well together by rubbing it well between the palms of the hands, add a little orange-flower water and mix with a whole egg firmly and quickly to the desired consistency. If a deep-yellow colour is desired, mix with all yolks instead of eggs, or if a white paste is desired, use the whites only which have been previously beaten stiff. Gum Paste Ingredients : i oz. gum-arabic, | lb. castor sugar, and h lb. cornflour. First steep the gum in a small basin with a good gill of water, cover over with paper, and put the basin in a warm place; when the gum has absorbed all the water, strain through muslin, then work it on a slab with the palm of the hand, mixing in the sugar at intervals. When the gum has absorbed all the sugar, the corn- flour must be gradually worked in with it until a stiff paste is formed. Then keep it in a damp place until wanted, to prevent its becoming dry and hard. Puff Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, i lb. firm fresh butter, a little salt and cold water. The secret in making puff paste is not, as is so generally supposed, the lightness of handling, but rather the regularity of mixing and folding. The flour and salt should be mixed with the water to the same consistency as the butter, and should be kept the same right through the process. Unless this is the case the two will not amalgamate in perfect layers, as it should to ensure good results. If the paste is soft and the butter hard, in turning the butter will not spread out between the layers of paste as it should, but will drive through it, thereby breaking the continuity of the layer, and the result will be irregular; likewise if the butter is soft and the paste is hard, the same effect will be produced in the opposite way. The paste will drive through the butter. The reason puff paste rises in the oven is that the very thin layers of butter, coming in contact with the heat, causes it to boil, and that forces the next thin layer of paste upwards. This operation taking place in each layer causes the whole thing to rise, so that it will be easily seen that where either the continuity of the layers of butter or paste is broken, it is bound to cause an irregularity. For this same reason, great care should be taken to ensure the folded edges to be perfectly straight. After the flour and water have been mixed to their proper con- sistency and worked to a smooth paste, it should be allowed to lie on the slab about a quarter of an hour so that it may lose its toughness. When this has been done, take the rolling-pin and roll it out about half an inch thick and about 18 inches long by 6 inches wide, spread the butter in little pieces over the top of this, and flatten with the palm of the hand. Now take one end of the paste and bring it about two-thirds across the top of the other, then lift the remaining third across the portion already doubled. You