THE MODERN COOK sieve, and then place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, some mignonette pepper, a little salt, and half a pint of consommt;; boil them gently until they are nearly done, then let them boil down quickly to a glaze; add a tablespoonful of Allemande br Espagnole sauce (according to the colour of the entree), and a little lemon juice; toss them up over the fire, and serve. Garnish of White Haricot Beans Fresh white haricot beans, in their proper season, form a very excellent change among the more ordinary vegetables. Their cultiva- tion is, however, much neglected by gardeners in England. When fresh haricot beans are not procurable, get half a pint of dried haricot beans and steep them in cold water for twelve hours; let them be washed and placed in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, mignonette pepper, salt, and one quart of cold water; set them to boil gently by the side of a stove until tender; when done, drain them on to a sieve, place them in a clean stew-pan with a pat of butter, a gill of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; shake them well together over the fire, and serve. Garnish of Red Haricot Beans These should be prepared exactly in the same manner as the white beans. Lentils may be prepared after the same method as the haricot beans. They are useful in the winter season when there is a scarcity of fresh vegetables. Garnish of Braised Cabbage Trim and wash one good savoy cabbage, cut in halves, and boil it in water for a quarter of an hour; rinse in cold water, drain, and place on a napkin ; cut the stalk away, season with salt and mignon- ette pepper, tie up with a string—joining two halves together; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the cabbage in it; add a carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with sufficient broth to cover the cabbage, and spread a buttered round of paper over the whole; then set them on the fire to boil, place the lid on the stew-pan, and allow it to remain gently boiling on a very slow fire for about an hour, when it will be done. Then drain the cabbage on to a sieve, remove the strings, press it in a napkin so as to be able afterwards to cut it into square, oblong, round, or oval shapes, according to taste; and with these garnish the entree or remove it is intended for. Garnish of Stewed Red Cabbages Trim, wash, and quarter a red cabbage, shred as you would if about to make pickled cabbage; then put about two ounces of butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and place the shred cabbage in it; season with mignonette pepper and salt, and half a gill of French vinegar, cover the stew-pan with its lid, and set it on a moderate fire to stew gently ; take care to stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When