39i PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, ETC. Aromatic Spices for Seasoning Take one ounce of nutmegs and mace, two ounces of cloves and white peppercorns, one ounce of sweet basil, marjoram, and thyme, and half an ounce of bay leaves: these herbs should be previously dried for the purpose; pound the spices in a mortar, then place the whole of the above ingredients between two sheets of strong white paper, and after the sides have been twisted or folded over tightly, so as to prevent as much as possible the evaporation of the volatile properties of the herbs and spices, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven to become perfectly dry; they must then be sifted through a fine hair-sieve, corked up tightly in a dry bottle, and kept for use. PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, Etc. Hot> Water Paste for Raised Pies Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. lard or lard and butter, 1 small teaspoonful salt, about gills hot water or milk. Put the flour on the board, spread it out with the back of the hand so as to form a well or hollow in the centre; into this put the salt. Next put the fat and water into a stew-pan over the fire, and when just hot enough so that one can bear the finger in, pour both gradually to the flour, and mix quickly together with the hand, taking care to knead the whole firmly into a smooth paste; keep covered up in a warm place till wanted. French Paste for Raised Pies Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, i£ gills cold water. Put the flour on the slab, make a well in the centre, then add the salt, water, and butter, and work the whole together with the hands into a firm paste as follows:—When the ingredients have been worked into a paste, this must be brought to the edge of the slab ; then use the palms of both hands, applying them alternately, with great force, to spread and divide the paste into small parts; sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste, and knead it together: this is called breaking and kneading, and must be repeated three or four times. The paste must then be gathered up, and finally kneaded together by pressing upon it with the elbow. It will then be ready for use. Short Paste for Timbales, Etc. Ingredients: i lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, the yolk of an egg, and nearly £ pt. water. Make a well in the centre of the flour, put in this the yolk of egg, salt, butter, and two-thirds of the water, then work the whole together with the hands into a rather firm paste; sprinkle a little water over it, and then work the whole together into a ball, and keep on one side till wanted.