THE MODERN COOK 424 centre of each of the marygolds, previously wetted all over the surface. Then arrange some almonds, split into four strips length- wise, closely round the rings in a somewhat slanting direction; these must be slightly pressed into the paste to make them hold on, and should be arranged so as to give to the cake, as much as possible, the appearance of the flower they are intended to resemble. Shake over some sugar with the dredger, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, insert some very narrow strips of firm red-currant or apple jelly between each piece of almond, and place a dot of apricot or greengage jam in the ring. Filbert Cream Tartlets Line a dozen tartlet moulds with some short crust, and then fill them with the following preparation:—First extract the kernels from a sufficient quantity of fresh filberts to produce four ounces of nuts; pound these in a mortar, adding a dessertspoonful of orange or rose water to prevent them from turning oily; add two ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of sugar, a liqueur-glassful of white noyau, and the yolks of two eggs; beat the whole well together, and use as directed. Bake the tartlets in a moderate oven, and when done, turn them out of the moulds on to a clean baking- sheet, and glaze the surface of the cream with the following mixture: —To a small glassful of white noyau add about two ounces of icing sugar, work these well together until they form a rather thick icing, and use this to glaze the tartlets with. Let the icing dry before serving. Coventry Tartlets Line a dozen deep-fluted tartlet moulds with some short crust, and fill them with the following preparation:—Procure about six ounces of fresh curd, and put it in a mortar with four ounces of castor sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, as much grated nutmeg as would hold on a sixpence, a small pinch of salt, and a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water; pound all these smoothly together until the mixture becomes creamy, and then use as directed. Bake the tartlets a light colour, and when done, turn them out upside down upon a sheet of paper, and leave to cool. Then mask over the upper part of each tartlet with some apricot marmalade, and decorate to taste with angelica, dried cherries, etc. These cakes may be varied in appearance by using currant or apple jelly instead of apricot, etc., and ornamenting them with small cut fancy shapes or designs, made of puff paste or almond paste. Apple Tart with Quince Peel two pounds of apples, remove the cores, cut them in slices or quarters, and arrange them neatly in the pie-dish; then add half a pound of quinces, which must be sliced up very thin, and stewed in a small stew-pan over a slow fire with a little water, sugar, and a small piece of butter; add three to four ounces of moist sugar, and sprinkle a little zest of lemon (t.e. the rind rubbed on sugar and then scraped off) over the top. Cover the tart with puff paste,