231 TURBANS AND MAZARINES Note.—Ornamental croustades of bread may also be filled with puree of fowl a la Reine, ditto of game a la Polonaise, etc.; and with almost every kind of ragout or garnish directed to be used for pates-chauds, vol-au-vents, borders of rice and potato, for which see those recipes. TURBANS AND MAZARINES Turban of Ox=Palates a la Perigueux Prepare and braise four to six ox-palates, and when done, place them between two dishes to press them flat; prepare about half a pound of gratin force-meat (see p. 61), also twelve fillets of fowl, and cover them with thin layers of bacon till wanted. Next roll out about four ounces of ordinary short crust to the size of a dessert-plate, and bake in a moderate oven; this is to serve for a foundation to raise the entree upon. Next trim half the ox- palates, split each in two with a sharp knife in the same way as thin layers of bacon are cut; spread the rough side with a thin layer of the gratin force-meat, then roll them up; put the piece of rolled- out paste on to a round baking-sheet; spread it with a layer of the force-meat a quarter of an inch thick, and after having trimmed the rolled ox-palates, to make them fit in with each other in circular order, place them firmly together on the foundation of paste prepared to receive them, taking care to put a little force-meat between each, to fill up the fissures, and join them together; upon each fissure, one of the decorated fillets must be neatly laid, and turned under to secure it. The remaining pieces of ox-palates must then be trimmed, garnished with force-meat like the former, and afterwards cut to the sizo of two-thirds of the others ; and with these smaller rolls of ox- palates a second tier must be formed upon the first, in similar fashion, with a decorated fillet upon each joining. Any roughness caused by the force-meat must be neatly smoothed over with a knife, dipped in water; a thick carrot, or piece of bread, cut in the shape of a pillar, and covered with fat bacon, should be placed in the centre of the entree, to support its shape while being baked. The whole of the turban must be covered in with thin layers of fat bacon, and these must be secured on by means of a thick band of buttered paper, cut in slits round the base (to enable it to fit closer), and secured round the entree with string : this will serve also to keep the turban in shape. One hour and a half before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, etc., place the turban on its dish, fill the centre with a ragout of small truffles, pour some Perigueux sauce round the base of the entree, lightly glaze the palates, without touching the fillets,—which must be kept as white as possible,—and serve. Turban of Chicken a la Prince de Galles Prepare one-half to three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat of fowl (see p. 59) or veal; and with part of it fill a plain cylindrical mould, measuring about four inches high and six in diameter,