RAISED PIES AND PATTIES 219 round or oval purse (according to the shape of the dish). Butter a raised pie-mould; line it with the paste, by first rolling it out and then pushing the paste into the mouldings of the case. When the mould is thus lined, fill it with some godiveau (see p. 61), previously mixed with some chopped chives, parsley, and mushrooms. Smooth the top over with the blade of a knife dipped in water, cover the pie with the remainder of the paste, and trim and decorate the edges. Place upon the top a circular piece of puff-paste, egg this over with the paste-brush, and score it with the point of a small knife, forming some device or ornament. Make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, and when it is done, remove the top carefully with a knife; score the godiveau to the bottom, in the shape of squares or diamonds; pour some Poivrade, Italian, or Espagnole sauce over. Replace the cover, and send to table. Partridge Pie a la Chasseur Cut one or more partridges into neat joints as follows:—Remove the legs and wings; then cut the fillets with the pinion-bone adhering to them, leaving the breast-piece entire, as also the back, after having detached the thighs. Let all these be neatly trimmed without waste,- and see that the skin of the thighs is rolled under to give an appear- ance of plumpness. Next place the joints in a deep sautd-pan with two ounces of clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg; fry over a brisk fire until brown, after which add a glass of Madeira or sherry, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, three or four truffles cut into thick slices, and a dozen button-mush- rooms. Cover and set the sautd-pan again on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then remove the lid, add half a pint of Brown Italian sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes longer, add the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; fill the pie, keeping back the truffles and mushrooms to place on the top; pour the sauce over and cover the pie. Bake one hour, and serve. Ox= Palate Pie a ITtalienne Procure three or four fresh ox-palates, steep them in tepid water for six hours, then throw them into a large stew-pan of boiling water and scald them for about five minutes; then plunge the palates in cold water, and scrape off all the white skin from the surface; next wash them in plenty of cold water, and drain well. Place them in an oval stew-pan, moisten with some white stock, cover with buttered paper, put on the lid, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about four hours. As soon as the palates are done, press between two baking-sheets or earthenware dishes, and when cold, take a circular tin-cutter an inch in diameter and cut them into rounds without wasting any part. Put these into a stew-pan with about one dozen large button-mushrooms cut into slices, and half a pint of Brown Italian sauce ; boil the whole together for two minutes, fill the pie, and cover. Bake half an hour, and serve.