I 20 THE MODERN COOK Water Souchet of Crimped Salmon Perfection in the preparation of this dish can only be attained by using the fish a few hours after it is caught. Moreover, those en- gaged in catching the fish should be instructed to cut it into slices half an inch thick, and to keep it in very cold water for a couple of hours or so, when, as is well known, the salmon will acquire that degree of firmness peculiar to all crimped fish. • Place four or five slices of salmon in a stew-pan with some shred parsley roots previously boiled for the purpose, and also the water they have been boiled in, some picked parsley leaves, mignonette pepper, and sufficient salt to season it; moisten with some essence of fish, which should be made either from the inferior pieces of the salmon or else with two or three flounders or any other small flat fish. Let the water souchet thus far prepared boil briskly until the salmon be done, which will require about six minutes. It should be served quickly, but just before sending to table you may add a little bright consomme. Many, however, prefer the latter omitted, considering that it diminishes the sweetness of the crisp creamy salmon. Note.—With all water souchets thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter should be served. Water Souchet of Plain Salmon Trim and fillet three or four pounds of plain salmon; place the fillets neatly side by side in a stew-pan, and put them by till dinner- time. Meanwhile prepare the water-souchet broth as follows:—Put the trimmings of the salmon into a stew-pan with carrot, celery, and parsley roots, the whole sliced up. Add a little mignonette pepper and salt, and a glass of French white wine; fill up with one and a half pints of water or weak broth, allow it to boil, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for half an hour; then strain the souchet off through a napkin on to the fillets of salmon, set them to boil briskly on the fire for about five minutes, add the shred parsley roots and picked parsley leaves, and when the whole has boiled together for three minutes, serve the water souchet in a deep silver dish or small soup-tureen. Trout a la Meuniere 3 to 4 small trout, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 1 tea- spoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it and wipe it with a damp cloth. Season with pepper and salt. Melt half the butter in a sauffi-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till the fish is done; the trout must be turned frequently during the process of frying. Take up the fish and dish up. Now add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon juice and the