THE MODERN COOK 446 Semolina Pudding a la Baden Ingredients: 2 oz. semolina, ij oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 pt. milk, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, ^ oz. ratafias, and a little salt. Mix the semolina with the sugar, orange-flower water, butter, milk, and salt in a stew-pan; stir this over the fire until it boils, work it perfectly smooth, and keep working the paste over the fire until it comes away from the sides of the stew-pan; then withdraw it from the fire, and gradually mix in the eggs, and also the bruised ratafias. Spread the inside of a plain mould with butter and fill it with the semolina mixture; put the bottom of the mould in a deep stew-pan half filled with hot water, and bake in the oven for about an hour; when done, turn the pudding out on to a dish, pour either a fruit or custard sauce over it, and serve. Dampfnudeln or German Dumplings These are made with the same kind of paste as the krapfen (see p. 445). When the dough is sufficiently risen, put it on a pastry slab, knead into a dozen small rolls, and put these in a deep stew- pan, about an inch apart from each other, with a gill of milk. Bake in the oven a light colour; just before withdrawing them, see that the milk is not absorbed by the dampfnudeln, and let them be glazed over with sugar and again browned in the oven. Dish up on a napkin, and send some Vanilla custard sauce separately to table. Pudding a la Coburg Have ready some baked brioche (see p. 397); cut in circular slices, about an inch less in diameter than the mould intended to be used for the pudding; the slices of brioche must be placed on a dish and soaked in maraschino. The sides of the mould should be spread with butter, and ornamented with dried cherries and candied citron; and previous to placing the pieces of brioche in the mould, spread each with apricot jam. Then fill up the mould with some vanilla custard prepared for the purpose, part of which must, however, be reserved for the sauce. Steam the pudding for about an hour and a quarter, and when done, turn out on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Pudding a la Fran^aise Ingredients : 2 oz. chopped beef or vegetable marrow, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. apricot jam, oz. chopped apples, 2 oz. dried cherries, 2 oz. candied orange-peel and citron, oz. sugar, a little grated nut- meg, 2 cloves (pounded), ^ teaspoonful cinnamon powder, the zest of rind of 1 orange on sugar, 2 whole eggs, 1 glass brandy, a little salt, and about 1 gill cream. Put the above ingredients into a large basin, and mix well together; spread a mould with butter, coat with flour, fill it with the pudding, and after tying it up in a cloth, boil it for about four hours. When done, dish up with a German custard sauce made as follows:—