270 THE MODERN COOK Lamb Cutlets a la Chevreuse The cutlets must be cut rather thick, allowing two ribs for each, but they should not be trimmed; prepare and braise in the same manner as veal cutlets a la Dreux (see p. 259); when done, pressed, and trimmed, mask over with a pur^e of onions mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; when cold, they should be dipped in beaten egg, and afterwards rolled in bread-crumbs ; keep in shape with the blade of a knife, and place upon a dish or in a stew-pan until dinner-time. Then fry them in hot fat a bright golden colour, dish up, put a small paper frill on the bone of each cutlet; fill the centre with small circular pieces of truffles, mushrooms, and fat livers, tossed in some Supreme sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Note.—In addition to these methods for dressing lamb cutlets, they may also be served in every variety of form in which veal or mutton cutlets are prepared. Carbonade of Lamb Loin of lamb is used for this, and should be prepared and finished according to the directions for carbonade of mutton (see p. 251). Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Cases (Cold) Blanch, trim, press, and braise eight lamb’s breads; let them cool. Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases used (china or silver are best for this purpose). Make a ragofit of artichoke bottoms cut in fine shreds and seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small tablespoonful of this into each of the souffle cases ; upon this place a lamb’s bread. Put the cases on the ice for a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the demi-glace sauce so as to almost cover the breads. Again put them on the ice so as to set the sauce, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, decorate round the edge with green peas, and, lastly, coat with a layer of well-flavoured aspic jelly. Lamb’s Sweetbreads a la Toulouse Steep about eight heart sweetbreads in cold water for a couple of hours, and then scald them slightly to set them, for the purpose of being afterwards larded ; they must next be placed in a deep stew- pan, covered with thin layers of fat bacon or else spread with one ounce of butter; moisten with sufficient strong consomme to reach nearly up to the larding; place a buttered paper upon them, and put them to boil briskly on the fire for five minutes, then set them in the oven, or cover them with a lid containing live charcoal, and place them on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, basting frequently with their own liquor. When the sweetbreads are nearly done, remove the lid and the paper, put them in the oven or pass a red-hot salamander over them to dry the larding, and then glaze them. When dished up, each sweetbread should be placed in