THE MODERN COOK 400 mould with the cake mixture; the yeast must be dissolved in a little tepid water, and the almonds and cream added cold. It should be baked nearly the same colour as a Savoy cake (see p. 401). Victoria Cake Ingredients : J lb. flour, 5 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground sweet almonds, J oz. bitter almonds, 2 oz. dried cherries, 1 oz. green citron cut up, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon powder, 1 tablespoonful whipped cream, \ oz. German yeast, 1 wine-glass brandy, and salt. Mix the above ingredients according to the directions given for German kouglauff; the yeast must be dissolved in a spoonful of tepid water, and the cream added last. When the cake is mixed, it should be placed in a tin hoop, with a double sheet of greased paper, on a baking-sheet, and the hoop, also lined with paper, placed upon it, ready to receive the mixture. As soon as the mixture has risen to the top of the hoop, bake a light brown in a moderate oven. This kind of cake may be served with some apricot marmalade diluted with a little lemon juice and warmed, sent to table separately in a sauce-boat; or, if preferred, instead of the apricot, some German egg sauce, made in the following manner:— Put two eggs in a middle-sized bain-marie, and add one ounce of castor sugar, a wine-glass of sherry, and the grated rind of an orange or lemon. Place the bain-marie containing these ingredients in a larger stew-pan with enough water to reach about one inch up the outside of the bain-marie; set this on a slow fire, and commence whisking or milling the contents briskly until it looks like a rich frothy custard. Be careful not to let the mixture get too hot, as that would harden the yolks of eggs and spoil the custard. Savarin Cake Ingredients : ^ lb. flour, 1 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fresh butter, 4 eggs, salt, £ oz. German yeast, and ii oz. blanched and chopped almonds. First set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour, and the yeast, in the same manner as directed for making brioche. Then while the sponge is rising, place the remainder of the flour in a basin, make a well in the centre, and add the warmed butter, sugar, salt, and two eggs at a time. Mix the whole well together and fill a greased mould as follows :—Sprinkle the chopped almonds equally over and about the inside surface; next work the paste up again for a minute or two, and put a sufficient quantity into the mould to rather more than half fill it. Now place the Savarin in a warm place to rise until it lias nearly filled the mould; fasten a broad band of thick paper round the upper part of the mould so as to prevent the batter from running over the sides while it is baking. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about an hour. When done, turn the Savarin out of the mould, and after first running a knife into several parts of the surface, pour over and into the Savarin a