SIDE-DISHES 367 Canapes of Curried Crab Remove the white meat and bed from the shell of a crab, pound it in a mortar with a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, mustard, and cayenne; moisten with a little tarragon vinegar. Add a small handful of fried bread-crumbs. Have ready some small rounds of fried bread, scooped out in the centre to take the stuffing; put a tablespoonful of it in the centre of each. Mask the top with a thick Curry sauce, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, bake for a few minutes, dish up, and serve. Savoury Crab with Tomato Sauce Break up a boiled crab, separate all the meat from the shell and claws. Put the meat into a stew-pan with a handful of soft bread- crumbs, four tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little finely chopped lemon rind; season with salt and pepper, add a wine-glassful of Chablis or sherry. Let all simmer over the fire, whilst stirring, for ten minutes; add a small piece of fresh butter, bring once more to the boil, then turn out on a deep dish; garnish the dish with fried bread croutons and rings of lemon, and serve. Bloater Cream Toast Toast in front or over a light fire three or four slices of stale bread cut from a sandwich loaf, trim off the crust and spread over one side with bloater paste, previously mixed with a little creamed butter, then cut the toast into even-sized finger shapes about an inch wide. Have ready some whipped cream seasoned with a good pinch of Krona or paprika pepper, spread this over the pieces of toast; arrange some thin strips of bloater fillets across the cream in lattice-work pattern, and place a tiny caper in each of the shapes. Decorate the edge with cream forced through a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Dish up on lace paper, and serve. Fillets of Bloaters with Cheese Skin two large-sized bloaters, split them down the back, remove the bones, place the fillets on a greased gridiron over or before the fire, and broil until nearly tender; then dip them in oiled butter, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready some hot buttered pieces of toasted bread, cut these in convenient shape, put a fillet on each, put them on a dish, sprinkle with a few fried bread- crumbs, place in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cod’s Roe on Toast Cut two ounces of raw cod’s roe into small pieces and put them in a sauce-pan with one ounce of butter, a beaten egg, two table- spoonfuls of milk, and season with salt and pepper. Stir this over a moderate fire until it commences to thicken, and then stir in a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Spread the mixture over slices of buttered toast. Dish up and serve.