BRAISED AND BAKED HAM I99 Westphalia Ham a la St. James Prepare a small Westphalia ham in every respect according to the first part of the previous directions, and having allowed it to steep in the mirepoix the allotted time, reduce the mirepoix, vege- tables, etc., of which it is composed, and cover the under part of the ham with the glaze ; then wrap the whole of the ham up with large sheets of cartridge-paper, previously well oiled for the purpose ; over the paper put a covering of venison paste, as is usual when about to prepare venison for roasting. Cover the coating of flour and water paste with greased paper, and tie on this with string. About five hours before the ham is required for table, roast before a moderate fire or in the oven ; when it has been cooking about three hours and a half, take it up, make a hole in the paste, and with a funnel infuse a gill of brandy, or, in preference to this, as much Malaga wine ; stop the hole up with paste, and let the ham roast for twenty minutes longer; then take it up carefully, so as not to lose any portion of the essence contained within the coating of crust that surrounds the ham. Trim the ham, and set it to dry on a baking- sheet in the oven; glaze and dish it up, using the essence reserved for the purpose in order to give flavour to the sauce intended to be served with it. Braised Ham a la Parisienne Trim, soak, and boil a small ham, either Westphalia or home- cured ; when it has boiled in water about an hour take it up and put it into cold water, and after having scraped the rind clean, place it in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of sherry and sufficient stock to cover the surface of the ham; put the lid on, and as soon as it has boiled, set the pan on a slow fire to continue gently braising for about four hours and a half. When the ham is done, take it up and trim it, leaving, as usual, enough of the rind adhering to the knuckle part, and on this cut out (with the point of a sharp knife) an ornament resembling leaves or scallops, spread out in a fan-like form ; glaze the ham and put it on a dish, raised on an oval croustade two inches and a half high, formed to the shape of the ham, cut round in flutes, and fried to a golden colour ; round the base place a dozen small fluted croustades of fried bread, filled with green peas, asparagus-heads, carrots and turnips, scooped out in the form of very small olives, and nicely glazed. Glaze the ham, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. Send some bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence of ham, previous to reduction of the sauce, in a sauce-boat to be served with the ham. Ham with Aspic Jelly Braise a ham as directed on p. 196, trim and glaze it accord- ingly, dish up, and garnish with aspic jelly according to any pre-. ferred design.