235 ENTREES OF BEEF unless otherwise ordered; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most. When done, place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with meat glaze. Prepare beforehand the following farce :—Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely chopped shalot in butter, put in the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the farce into eight portions, and spread over one side of the eight fillets. Place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Fillets of Beef a la Seymour Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them, and sauffl them in butter. Season to taste, and place each on an artichoke-bottom previously heated and seasoned, dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured Bearnaise sauce (see p. 468), place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Fillets of Beef a la Madeleine Cut eight slices of fillet of beef of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound; beat them a little and trim them neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos ; fry them in clarified butter and drain. Warm up in a small earthenware pan two ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually three ounces of fresh butter; work vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the meantime the juice of one large lemon, one shalot, a sprig of tarragon, one of chervil, one of chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about one dozen new kidney potatoes, previously scraped; drain and fry them in butter a nice light yellow; season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute- pan ; when hot, add the tournedos; let them brown one side, then turn and let brown the other side, over a quick fire ; now season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, put the potatoes round the fillets in rows; put a dessert- spoonful of the prepared butter over the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and send to table. Fillets of Beef a la Moscovienne Choose a nice piece of tender loin or sirloin of beef, remove all the sinews and fat, cut it into even-sized oblong slices, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, and lard them with small strips of larding bacon, raw ham, and truffles, so that they are inserted in alternate rows. Place the tournedos in a flat stew-pan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with