THE MODERN COOK 5° In all cases be sparing of salt, especially in the first stages of pre- paration. Allow the stock to boil gently on the side of the stove for six hours, and then pour it into kitchen-pans for further use. Chicken Consomme Take a small fowl, roast before a brisk fire until half done, and then put into a small well-tinned stock-pot, nearly filled up with three quarts of water, and place this on the fire to boil; skim the consomme, and then add one good-sized carrot, one turnip, one onion, one stick of celery, two cloves, a small piece of mace, and a little salt. Set the stock on the side of the stove to boil gently for about two hours, and then strain it off for use. This kind of consomme is admirably adapted for persons of delicate health as a restorative. It is also very serviceable in im- parting delicacy of flavour to all clear soups. Consomme of Pheasants or Partridges Roast a pheasant, after having taken out the fillets for the purpose of making them into an entree, or two partridges may be used (removing the fillets in the same way); put them into a stock- pot with a pound of knuckle of veal and about a quarter of a pound of lean ham; fill up with one gallon of water, then set it to boil on the stove-fire. Meanwhile slice up a carrot, also an onion, a head of celery, and a leek; fry these roots in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter till they become slightly browned, then throw them into the consomme after having previously well skimmed it Add three cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt; let it boil gently for about three hours, and then strain it off for use. This preparation will serve for all kinds of clear consomme soups, such as au Chasseur or a la Deslignac, etc. Brown Consomme of Rabbits Take a wild rabbit, cut up in pieces, and put into a small stock- pot with one pound of knuckle of veal which has been roasted enough to colour it; fill up with three quarts of light stock or water, then set it on the stove to boil; skim it well, and garnish with a carrot, an onion, and a stick of celery, two cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt. Let this boil gently for three hours, and then strain it off for use. This consomme is very essential in clarifying Espagnole or brown sauce, and is also serviceable for all soups in which quenelles of game are served. White Consomme of Fowls Take one old hen or fowl, or, in their stead, the carcase of a fowl, or any other sort of poultry you may have. Let it steep in cold water to remove any blood it may contain; then drain and put into an appropriate-sized stock-pot or stew-pan, and fill it up with three quarts of common stock or water; garnish with celery, one onion, one turnip, one carrot, and one leek. Set it to boil gently by the