TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 4i7 edges neatly. Shake some finely sifted sugar over the cake and bake it the lightest possible colour: indeed, it should be free from any colour, the characteristic appearance of this kind of pastry being its whiteness. Pithiviers cake should be eaten cold. These cakes may also be made in tartlet moulds, thinly lined with puff paste, and after being neatly filled with the Pithiviers cream wet the edges and cover the mould in with rounds of puff paste, stamped out with a cutter; fasten down by pressing the two pieces of paste together with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, and finish and bake as directed in the previous recipe. D’Artois Cakes Puff paste or large d’Artois cakes are prepared as in the previous recipes, and may be garnished either with apple marmalade, mince- meat, or any kind of preserve; in this case, however, when the cake has been covered in with the puff paste, it must be egged over with a paste-brush ; when it has been baked a bright-yellow colour, shake some finely sifted sugar over, after which put it back again in the oven for a minute or two to brown on the top. The same process is also followed when making small d’Artois cakes. Note.—These cakes may also be made in four-inch-wide strips, and when baked cut into one-inch fingers. German Tourte of Apricots Cut half-a-dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and put them into a small sugar-boiler or stew-pan with the kernels extracted from the stones, two ounces of castor sugar, and half a gill of water; stir this over the fire until the fruit is dissolved into a jam. Roll out some trimmings of puff paste, or else four ounces of short paste, to the diameter of about eight inches, place this on a circular baking-sheet, and with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand twist the paste round the edges so as to raise it in imitation of cording; then cut up half-a-dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and place these in rows on the paste, shake some sifted sugar over the apricots, and bake the tourte in a moderate oven; when it is done, pour the marmalade over the whole apricots, shake some sifted sugar mixed with a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder over the surface, dish the tourte on a fancy paper, and serve it either hot or cold. This kind of tourte may be made of any kind of fruit, the process being the same in each case. Some cinnamon sugar, sprinkled over the surface, should always be added. Parisian Turnover of Apples Peel four to six apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; after which, put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of water; toss the apples over a slow fire until they are half done, and then withdraw from the fire. While the apples are cooking, roll out four ounces of short crust, the