THE MODERN COOK 196 Roast Sucking-Pig a la Chipolata Roast three dozen chestnuts, peel and then boil them with a quart of consomme for twenty minutes; reserve half in a small stew- pan, and mix the remainder with half a pound of pork-sausage meat, and use this kind of stuffing to fill a sucking-pig; sew it up with a trussing-needle and string and roast it in the usual manner; when done, dish it up as directed in the foregoing recipes, taking care that the stuffing should be kept as whole as possible in the separated sides. Garnish with a richly varied Chipolata ragofit (see p. 44), and again round this place eight decorated quenelles; glaze the pig, and serve. Roast Sucking=Pig a la Proven^ale Roast three dozen large chestnuts, remove their husks while yet hot, and after pounding them in a mortar with two ounces of butter, rub the mixture through a wire-sieve, and put the puree into a stew- pan ; add a few chives, a sprig or two of sweet-basil, parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf well chopped, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the yolk of one egg; mix well together, and use this preparation to stuff a plump sucking-pig, and roast it in the manner already directed. Then cut it up and place it upon the dish, garnish the remove with a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), pour some Gasconne or Provengale sauce under it, and send to table. Roast Sucking-Pig' a la Napolitaine Take four ounces of polenta,1 mix it in a stew-pan with a pint of good consomme, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same quantity of butter; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir the whole on the fire quickly till it boils, and then continue stirring until it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, when add two ounces of picked Sultana raisins and a good tablespoon of orange marmalade; mix the whole lightly together, and with it stuff a sucking-pig; roast it in the usual way, divide and dish it up, garnish with a border of polpettes (see p. 317), pour a well-made Neapolitan sauce (see p. 16) under the pig, glaze, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing different methods for dressing sucking-pigs, they may also be served a la Financifere, with Poivrade, Tomato, Maitre d’Hotel, Piquante, Robert, or Bretonne sauce. BRAISED AND BAKED HAM Braised Ham with Spinach, etc. When about to dress a ham, care must be taken after it has been trimmed, and the knuckle-bone removed, that it is put to soak in a large pan filled with cold water—the length of time it should remain in soak depending partly upon its degree of moisture, partly whether the ham be new or seasoned. If the ham readily yields to the 1 A kind of flour much used in Italy, obtained from Indian corn.