THE MODERN COOK 184 and salt, and having rolled up each flap or skirt-piece, so as to give it a tight and neat appearance, secure its shape by passing some string round it several times. After this, the mutton should be prepared for braising with carrots, onions, celery, herbs, cloves, and mace; moisten with a sufficient quantity of good stock to nearly cover the mutton ; place a buttered paper and the lid over all, set the braising-pan on a moderate fire, and after it has boiled, let it continue gently braising for about four hours—carefully basting it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up and put it in the oven to dry the moisture from the surface preparatory to its being glazed; then dish it up, and garnish with prepared small vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French beans, asparagus-heads, small new potatoes,, and green peas, each separately tossed in a little Allemande sauce, pour some Allemande sauce round the saddle of mutton, and send to table. Note.—Instead of saucing this remove with Allemande, Espagnole may be used if preferred, or even the clarified and reduced essence in which the mutton has been braised; but it is essential that the vegetables intended to be used for garnishing should be dressed with Allemande or Bechamel sauce. Saddles of mutton prepared and braised according to the foregoing instructions may also be sent to table in all the varieties described for braised legs of mutton. Boiled Neck of Mutton a l’Anglaise Procure a small neck of mutton (the best end), and shorten the rib-bones; next detach the spine-bone from the fleshy part of the neck, and afterwards saw off the whole of the spine adhering to the base of the ribs; pare the fat smooth, and about two hours before dinner-time, put the neck on to boil in a stew-pan with water, a little salt, and two carrots and turnips. When they are done, dish them up so as that the uncovered ends of the rib-bones may fall in between each other—representing a chevaux-de-frise. Garnish with mashed turnips moulded in the shape of large eggs with a tablespoon, and with carrots cut into fancy shapes between each spoonful of mashed turnips, or else placed round in a row. Send two sauce-boats filled with gravy and Caper sauce (see p. 21). Braised Neck of Mutton k 1’Irlandaise Trim a neck of mutton as directed in the previous recipe, put to braise in an oval stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, and sprigs of parsley; moisten with stock, and put to boil on the stove; after which set them by the side of a moderate fire, and while the mutton is being braised cut twelve large potatoes in the shape of small eggs, and place them in a stew-pan with two or three small onions; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a pint of stock, and put them on a moderate fire to boil gently, taking care that the potatoes are kept as whole as possible, although they must be thoroughly boiled. When the mutton is done, take up, trim if necessary, and dish up as directed in the foregoing recipe; strain the stock in which the