FISH ENTREES *57 Quenelles of Salmon a la Ravigote Mould a dozen quenelles in tablespoons with some force-meat of salmon prepared as directed above; poach in the ordinary way, and when done, drain, and dish up in close circular order; pour some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over them, fill the centre with scallops of whitings tossed in a little Allemande sauce, and serve. Blanquette of Sturgeon Braise a pound of sturgeon in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) for about thirty minutes, and leave to get cold in its own liquor; then drain and cut it up into scallops, and place in a stew-pan with some truffles and button-mushrooms, to which add some Allemande sauce finished with part of the mirepoix reduced for the purpose; warm the blanquette, dish it up in the form of a dome, garnish round with lobster croquettes, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a 1’Aurore Cut about a pound of salmon into oval fillets; place these in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and lemon juice ; fry them over the fire for five minutes, pour off nearly all the butter, and then mask each fillet with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (see p. 3); rub three hard-boiled yolks of eggs through a wire-sieve, and spread this kind of vermicelli equally over all the fillets; then pass a hot salamander over them to deepen the colour of the yolk of egg, dish the fillets up in a close circle, fill the centre with a ragout of mushrooms, small quenelles, and mussels tossed in some Aurora sauce (see p. 11), pour some of it round, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a la Parisienne Cut a pound of salmon into heart shapes, season with a little pepper and salt, and mask over with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce; when this has become cold, bread-crumb twice over in the usual manner, and put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; fry the fillets lightly over a brisk fire, and when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with some ragout cl la Parisienne (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Salmon Cutlets a la Maintenon Trim a pound of salmon into fillets as above, and place them in a saut^-pan with some clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and two shalots, and fry lightly for five minutes ; then add half a pint of Allemande sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; simmer the whole together for two minutes longer, and remove from the fire. Cut as many sheets of small notepaper, into the shape of hearts, as there are cutlets; oil them over with a paste-brush, place a cutlet in each, divide the sauce equally, and then fold the edges down all round by neatly and firmly twisting them under in pleats, so as to