93 TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS colour while raw, be steeped for several hours in cold water in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed from all impurities. Then with a meat saw divide the upper and under shells into pieces of convenient size to handle, and, having put them with the fins and head into a large vessel containing boiling water, proceed quickly to scald them; by this means they will be separated from the horny substance which covers them, which will then be easily removed. They must then be put into a larger stock-pot nearly filled with fresh hot water, and left to continue boiling by the side of the stove-fire until the glutinous substance separates easily from the bones. Place the pieces of turtle carefully upon clean dishes, and put them in the larder to get cold; they should then be cut up into pieces about an inch and a half square, which pieces are to be finally put into the soup when it is nearly finished. Put the bones back into the broth to boil an hour longer, for the double purpose of extracting all their savour and to effect the reduction of the turtle stock, which is to be used for filling up the turtle stock-pot. In order to save time, while the above is in operation, the turtle stock or consomme should be prepared as follows:— Melt two and a half ounces of fresh butter in a stock-pot; then place in it a quarter of a pound of raw ham cut in slices—over these put two pounds of leg of beef and a small knuckle of veal, one old hen (after having removed the fillets, which are to be kept for making the quenelles for the soup); to these add all the fleshy pieces of the turtle (excepting those pieces intended for entrees), and then place on the top the head and fins of the turtle; moisten the whole with a glass of Madeira and three quarts of good stock; add a handful of mushrooms, three or four cloves, one blade of mace, and a good- sized bouquet of parsley tied up with two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, green onions, and shalots. Set the consomme thus prepared on a brisk fire to boil sharply, and when the liquid has become reduced to a glaze, fill the stock-pot up instantly with enough liquor to cover, and as soon as it boils skim it thoroughly, garnish with the usual proportion of vegetables, and remove it to the side of the stove to boil gently for six hours. Remember to probe the head and fins after they have been boiled two hours, and as soon as they are done drain them on a dish, cover them with a wet napkin well saturated with water to prevent it from sticking to them, and put them away in a cool place with the remainder of the glutinous parts of the turtle already spoken of. The stock-pot should now be filled up with the turtle broth reserved for that purpose, as directed above. When the turtle stock is done strain it off into an appropriate-sized stock- pot, remove every particle of fat from the surface, and then proceed to thicken it with a proportionate quantity of white roux to the con- sistency of thin sauce. Make this exactly in the same manner as directed for Espagnole or brown sauce in order to extract all the butter and scum, so as to give it a brilliant appearance. Two glasses of old Madeira must now be added, together with a puree of herbs of the following kinds to be made as here directed :— Sweet basil must form one-third proportion of the small bunch