THE MODERN COOK 37° Egg and Ham Savoury Line ten or twelve small tartlet moulds with puff-paste trimmings or plain paste crust; fill these with the following preparation:— Mince four ounces of cooked ham and three hard-boiled eggs finely. Mix with three yolks of raw eggs a little cream, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up the moulds, and bake the patties in a moderately hot oven; dish up, and serve with some Piquante or Tomato sauce. Egg Coquilles Butter the inside of eight china souffle cases, put a tablespoonful of prepared and seasoned spinach in each; upon this put about a dessertspoonful of cream. Break a fresh egg in each, season with pepper and salt, place the cases on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about eight minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. Cheese Souffles Melt one ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and mix smoothly ; then add half a gill of milk ; stir until boiling, then add two ounces grated Gruyere cheese, the yolks of two eggs, and season to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and stir in lightly. Pour into small china or paper souffle cases (previously buttered), and bake at once in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Cheese Fondu Ingredients : 2 oz. fresh Parmesan cheese grated, 1 oz. flour, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill milk, a pinch mignonette pepper, and a very little salt. Mix the flour, butter, pepper, and salt well together with the milk, and then stir this over the fire until it boils; work the batter quickly with the spoon until perfectly smooth, then add the grated Cheese and yolks of eggs; whip the whites quite firmly, and fold them in very lightly. Fill the souffle case with the Fondu, bake for about thirty minutes, and send to table as soon as it is ready. Note.—Half the quantity of Gruyhre with the other half of Parme- san cheese is sometimes used. It is also customary to season fondus with mustard, lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies for those who prefer high seasoning to the more delicate flavour of the Parmesan cheese. Cheese Aigrettes Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, add one and a half ounces of flour, stir over the fire, and add one gill of milk, two table- spoonfuls of water. Stir till it boils, and work to a smooth paste, adding three yolks of eggs. Fold in when cooled the whisked white of one egg, season to taste, and add two ounces of grated Gruykre cheese. Drop the mixture from a dessertspoon into hot fat or clarified butter, and fry to a light-brown colour. Drain, dish up, and serve at once.