ENTRIES OF POULTRY 283 when done, glaze lightly, and serve with some half-glaze under them. Send some Tartare sauce (see p. 23) separately to table in a sauce- boat. Chicken a 1’Algerienne Cut the chicken up as for a fricassee, place the pieces in a deep stew-pan with some clarified butter and some slices of raw ham; season with cayenne, a bouquet garni, and a clove of garlic; fry the chicken over a brisk fire until slightly brown; then pour off the fat, and add a glass of Madeira, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a piece of glaze, a pint of Espagnole sauce, and a dozen mushrooms; simmer the whole together over the fire for ten minutes, then add a pat of butter and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Dish up the entree in a pyramidal form, reserving the pieces of breast and the fillets to be placed uppermost; garnish with the ham and mushrooms, pour the sauce over, place twelve croutons of bread round, and serve. Chicken a la Florentine Choose a small spring chicken, bone and trim neatly, season with mignonette pepper and salt, and place in a deep stew-pan with half a gill of salad oil and a bunch of herbs; add three ounces of raw ham or streaky bacon, cut up into square pieces and parboiled in water for ten minutes, a teaspoonful of crushed pimento, two table- spoonfuls of small button-onions (also parboiled in water for five minutes), the same quantity of small carrots trimmed in the form of olives, and a dozen mushrooms. Simmer all together over a moderate fire until the pieces of chicken, etc., are brown, then pour off all the fat, add a glass of Malaga wine and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a brisk fire until the moistening is reduced to a glaze; toss the pieces of chicken, etc., about in this to coat the glaze, and immediately dish up the entree, reserving the mushrooms, etc., to be placed in groups about the dish; next pour a gill of Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, allow to simmer, then pour it over the entree, and serve. Curry of Spring Chicken Cut up a spring chicken as for a fricassee, trim the joints neatly, place them in a stew-pan with some clarified butter, and fry until they become firm to the touch; then pour off all the fat, add half a pint of Curry sauce (see p. 12), and set the curry to simmer very gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken have become perfectly tender; the entree may then be dished up, the sauce poured over it, and some plain boiled rice sent to table separately. Curried Chicken (another method) Fry the pieces of chicken or fowl in butter until they are well browned all over; then slice up a large onion and a small head of celery, and put these into a stew-pan, together with a clove of garlic, a bouquet garni, a blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry the whole over a slow fire until lightly browned : add a tablespoonful of curry paste