8o THE MODERN COOK Note.—This may be varied by substituting macaroni, vermicelli, or any other kind of Italian paste for the rice. This rule is applicable to purees of vegetables in general. Potato Soup a la Creme Scrub, peel, and slice up about two pounds of good potatoes. Put them into a stew-pan with one large onion and one stick of celery-— also sliced up; add two ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; set them to simmer on a slow fire, stirring them occasionally, until they are nearly dissolved into a kind of puree. Then add to them three pints of good white consomme, and after having allowed the potatoes to boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy or a fine sieve, and having removed the puree into a sauce-pan, add, if necessary, a little more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual manner required for other purees of vegetables. Just before sending to table, add a gill of cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar. Serve fried bread crusts with this soup. Potato Soup a la Victoria Prepare a puree of potatoes as directed above, and finish it in the same manner. When about to send to table, place one dozen of small quenelles of potatoes (see below) in the soup-tureen, with one gill of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and the same pro- portion of French beans cut into diamond shapes and boiled, and then pour the boiling puree thereon, and serve. Quenelles of Potatoes for Soup Bake three or four large potatoes, cut them into halves, scoop them out on to a wire-sieve, and rub them through it on to a dish with a wooden spoon; then put the potato thus obtained into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of double cream, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Stir this on a rather brisk fire until the paste ceases to adhere to the spoon; then remove the potatoes from off the fire, and mix in with them the yolks of one or two eggs, observing that this preparation must be kept of the same consistency as any other quenelles. Then mould the quenelles according to the size and shape required, and poach them in boiling water with a little salt in it. Puree of Asparagus a la Conde Prepare one and a half pints of very young and green asparagus peas, or one large bundle of good sprue asparagus; break off the heads so far down to the foot of the stalks that they will readily snap off without resistance, which will prove them to be young and tender ; throw these into a large pan of cold water, together with a tablespoonful of spinach, the same quantity of parsley, and one onion. Having got these ready, set a large stew-pan on the fire half filled with boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt in it. First drain the asparagus,