ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 437 this must be well sugared over and baked firm, without allowing it to brown. When this is done, take the meringue carefully off the dome and place it upside down in a soup-plate, and after the white of egg has been partially removed from the interior, smooth with a spoon, sugar over, and set it to dry at the entrance of the oven, if the latter is not too hot. As soon as the meringue has become dry and hard, fasten it on the pedestal with a little of the paste, and use a forcing-bag filled with meringue to pipe the edge and sides; shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and put the meringue to dry in a warm place, taking particular care that it does not brown. Just before sending to table, place the meringue on a dish, fill it with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower or some liqueur, and arrange some strawberries on the surface; garnish round the base with quarters of lemons or oranges filled with jelly (see p. 457), and serve. Meringues with Banana Cream Whisk stiffly three to four whites of eggs, then stir in carefully three to four ounces of very fine castor sugar. Shape the mixture into meringues by the help of a tablespoon or a Savoy forcing-bag on to a meringue board or baking-sheet lined with paper. Dust the shapes with fine sugar, and bake in a very cool oven till the meringues are firm and crisp and of a light-fawn colour. Press in the bottom of each and place them on a tray to cool. Whip up one gill of cream, peel two to three ripe bananas, rub them through a sieve, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of vanilla essence, then mix with the whipped cream and fill the meringue shells. Place each two together, and dish up. Grosse=Meringue with Pistachios Prepare some meringue as directed on p. 436 ; then cut three or four circular pieces of writing-paper to the size of a dinner- plate, and proceed to cover each of these with a kind of wreath formed with the meringue paste, as follows:—First draw a rather thick circle, about three inches in diameter, round the inner part of one of the pieces of paper above alluded to; then with a dessert- spoon mould the meringue in the form of very small elongated ovals, and place these crosswise, closely to each other, upon the circle already mentioned, thus forming a kind of wreath ; fill the remaining papers in the same way, and then, after the meringues have been well covered with sifted sugar, shake off the loose sugar, place on square pieces of board, and bake a very light colour. When done, turn the wreaths upside down upon plates, shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and leave to dry in a very slow oven. Just before sending to table, pile the wreaths or rings of meringue one upon another, with a layer of apricot jam spread in between each ; fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with a glass of liqueur, and serve.