COLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, ETC. 387 the steam to escape, and bake it in the oven for about two hours; when done, withdraw from the oven, place the point of a funnel in the hole at the top of the timbale, and through this pour in about half a pint of good well-seasoned strong consomme, reduced to the consistency of half-glaze ; stop up the hole with a small piece of paste, and keep the timbale in a cool place until wanted. Capon Pie with Truffles First bone a capon, spread it out on the table, and season the inside with prepared spices and a little salt; then spread a layer of force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), and upon this, in alternate rows, some square fillets or strips of fat bacon, tongue, and truffles; cover these with a layer of the force-meat, repeat the strips of bacon, then fold both sides of the skin over each other so as to give to the capon a plump appearance, sew up neatly, and set aside on a dish. Prepare some thin slices of cooked ham. Prepare some hot-water paste (see p. 391); take two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball on the slab with the palm of the hand, and then roll it out in the form of a band; trim the edges, and pare the ends square, taking care to cut them in a slanting direction; wet them with a paste-brush dipped in water, and wrap them over one another neatly and firmly so as to show the join as little as possible. Next roll out half the remainder of the paste, either in a circular or oval form, about a quarter of an inch thick, to the size the pie is intended to be made; place this, with buttered paper under it, on a baking-sheet, wet it round the edge with a paste-brush dipped in water, and stick a narrow band of the paste, about half an inch high, all round it, to within about an inch of the edge : the wall or crust of the pie is to be raised up round this. Then, by pressing the upper part of the pie with the fingers and thumbs of both hands, it may be made to resemble the curved lip of a vase. The base must be spread out in proportion to the top, by pressing on it with the thumb. The bottom and sides of the pie should now be lined with a coating of force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), or, if preferred, with veal and fat bacon, in equal proportions, well seasoned, chopped fine and pounded; next add the ham, previously cut up in slices and well seasoned, and fill up the cavity with some of the force-meat; then add the capon and cover it over, and round, with the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and after wetting this, and the pie round the edges, use it to cover in the pie, pressing the edges of both tightly with the fingers and thumb, in order to make them adhere closely together; trim the edge neatly and decorate with the pastry pincers. The pie should then be egged over, and decorated with any scraps of paste left over, first rolled out thin, then cut out in the form of leaves, half-moons, rings, etc., and arranged accord- ing to taste and fancy. The pie must then be placed in the oven and baked for about three and a half hours, and when done, about three-quarters of a pint of strongly reduced consommd