BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, ETC. r73 glaze the beef afresh, pour into a sauce-boat the remaining half of the clarified braise reduced nearly to the consistency of half-glaze, and send to table. Rib of Beef a la Mode Prepare one small rib of beef for braising according to the fore- going instructions, moisten with one or two glasses of sherry or Madeira, and then set the pan containing the beef on the fire to simmer for about a quarter of an hour; after which add a quart of good consomme, cover the whole with a buttered paper and the lid, and set the pan again on the fire to continue gently simmering for two or three hours—according to the weight or size of the piece of beef. When done, drain and trim it, place it in a baking-tin with a little of its own liquor, put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two, and then glaze. When glazed, dish the beef up, and garnish round with groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions; sauce round with the essence in which the beef has been braised, clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze, for the purpose, and send to table. Rib of Beef a la Bourgeoise Trim one small rib of beef, lard and prepare for braising with the trimmings and the usual proportions of vegetables, etc.; moisten with a quart of good stock ; set the beef to boil very gently on a slow fire till done, which will require about two hours, taking care to turn it over in its braise occasionally; when the rib is done, drain, trim, and glaze ; dish up with a border of glazed carrots, onions, turnips round; pour the essence over, and serve. Braised Rib of Beef with Madeira Sauce Prepare a rib of beef for braising in the usual manner, moisten with a glass of Madeira and a pint of good consomme ; braise the beef gently for about two and a half hours; when done, trim, glaze, and dish it up with alternate groups of fried potatoes in the shape of large olives, and any green vegetable the time of year may afford ; use the clarified braise, reduced to an essence, as sauce, and send to table. Braised Rib of Beef a la Baden Trim and lard a small rib of beef with some fillets of lean ham and fat bacon; place in an oval braising - pan, garnish with two shalots, a grated stick of horse-radish, and a few sprigs of parsley; moisten with a glass or two of Rhenish wine and a pint of good stock, braise the beef gently on a slow fire, taking care to baste the beef frequently with its own liquor; when done, glaze and dish it up; strain the liquor into a stew-pan, take off all the fat, add a table- spoonful of red-currant jelly, the grated rind and juice of an orange ; reduce the whole to the consistency of sauce, pour it round the beef, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), glaze the beef afresh, and send to table. Braised ribs of beef may also be sent to table in a variety of other forms; as, for instance, ii l’Anglaise, a la Milanaise, a la Macedoine, it la Royale, etc,, for which see Braised Rolls of Beef.