ENTREES OF MUTTON 25x juice, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole together, allow the scallops to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, and then serve. Scallops of Mutton with Mushrooms and Truffles Saute or fry the scallops brown, then pour off the fat and add a small glass of Madeira, a dozen button-mushrooms, one ounce of truffles cut into pieces, a little cayenne, and a small piece of glaze; toss the whole together over the fire until mixed, and then add half a pint of finished Espagnole sauce, and a squeeze of lemon juice; set the scallops to simmer on the fire for three minutes, and serve. Carbonade of Mutton a la Richelieu Bone three or four pounds of loin of mutton, leaving the small fillets adhering; remove all the inside fat, season with pepper and salt, cut off the loose ends and flaps, and then roll up tight, keeping the fillet in the centre; sew up closely with string and a small trussing-needle, and tie round with string to preserve the shape. Next strew the trimmings over the bottom of an oval braising-pan, place the carbonade upon these, garnish with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient stock to cover the whole. Braise the carbonade on a slow fire for about two hours, and allow it partially to cool in its own liquor; it must then be put in press between two dishes, taking care that the sewn-up part is placed undermost.. When cold, trim neatly in the form of an oblong cushion, remember- ing that nearly the whole of the fat which covers it must be left on : this, however, must be pared smooth. Strain the liquor, remove the fat, clarify in the usual way, and then boil down to half-glaze, half of which is to be put with the carbonade in a covered fricandeau pan to warm it in; the remainder being used to work the sauce with. Half an hour before sending to table put the carbonade in the oven to be warmed through; then take the lid off, allow the surface to dry, and baste frequently with its own glaze until it assumes a bright shiny surface; it must then be placed on a dish, garnished with potatoes cut in the form of olives and fried in clarified butter. Carbonade of Mutton a la Dauphinoise Bone three or four pounds of loin of mutton, remove all the inside fat and the small fillets ; season with pepper and salt, and spread some highly-seasoned veal force-meat on the inside; it must then be rolled, sewn up, and afterwards corded round with string to make it retain its shape. Braise the carbonade in the same way as in the previous recipe, and when done put in press, and cut into pieces in the form of a point; trim these neatly, put them on a dish, and then cover them over with a thin coating of d’Uxelles sauce. When the sauce is cold and firmly set dip each piece separately in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. About twenty minutes before sending to table, place the carbonade in a frying-basket and fry in