REMOVES OF PORK AND ROAST SUCKING-PIG 193 Ox=Tongue with Aspic Jelly Truss a small pickled tongue into the shape of an arch. Boil it for about three hours; when done, plunge it in cold water and pull off the outer skin. Then truss the tongue again in the form of an arch, put it in press sideways between two dishes, and, when cold, trim it smoothly, or with a small sharp knife carve the surface so as to represent leaves and flowers; glaze over brightly, and place upon a dish. Finally, garnish and ornament the tongue with aspic jelly (see p. 24), and serve. REMOVES OF PORK AND ROAST SUCKING-PIG Boiled Leg of Pork a l’Anglaise Saw off the shank-bone of a small salted leg of dairy-fed pork, then put it into a large braising-pan or stock-pot; fill this nearly full with cold water, and add two carrots, as many turnips, one stick of celery, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Set the pork to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about two and a half hours— the exact time depending on its size. While the pork is boiling, prepare a dozen small turnips and as many young carrots; boil these separ- ately, and reserve them for garnishing the remove. When the pork is done, drain, trim, and dish it up; place the carrots and turnips alternately round the remove, pour some plain gravy under it, put a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. A peas-pudding is usually served with boiled pork made as follows :—Soak half a pint of yellow split peas in cold water all night; drain and tie them rather loosely in a pudding-cloth, and boil them with the pork—about two hours will suffice. Take them up, pound them in a mortar with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and rub them through a fine wire-sieve; then put this puree into a stew-pan, add the yolk of one egg, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, and after having spread a napkin with fresh butter, place the puree in the centre, draw the corners up on the left hand, and with the right tie up the pudding with string; then place it to boil for an hour, after which turn it out carefully on to a vegetable dish, and serve. Boiled Leg of Pork a l’Allemande Pickle a small leg of pork with one ounce of saltpetre, three ounces of moist sugar, half a pint of vinegar, cloves, mace, sweet- basil, and marjoram, thyme, and bay-leaf, and one and a half pounds of common salt; boil it as directed in the foregoing recipe. When done, dish it up, and after garnishing it with sauerkraut (see p. 39), surround it with a border of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions ; pour some Poivrade sauce over it, and send to table. o