THE MODERN COOK 62 it to resemble somewhat the quenelle of fowl. Put it away in a basin in a cool place till wanted for use. Godiveau of any kind, when well made, is very delicious eating, and it is not so expensive to make as quenelle. It is used for garnish- ing vol-au-vents, pates-chauds, tourtes a la ciboulette, and also for stuffing calves’ heads, as a substitute for quenelle force-meat. CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL Clear Spring1 Soup Take two or three carrots and as many turnips scraped and washed, scoop them out into the form of small olives or peas with a vegetable scoop of either shape; add the white part of a small head of celery, half-a-dozen small onions, and one head of firm white cauliflower cut into small flowerets. Blanch or parboil the foregoing in boiling water for three minutes, strain them on a sieve, and then throw them into two quarts of bright consomme of fowl; let the whole boil gently for half an hour by the side of the stove-fire; then add the white leaves of half a small cabbage-lettuce (previously stamped out with a round cutter the size of a shilling), a handful of sorrel-leaves snipped or cut like the lettuces, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, and a small piece of sugar; let these continue to boil gently until done. When about to send the soup to table, put into the tureen a gill of young green peas, an equal quantity of asparagus- heads boiled green, and a handful of small croutons k la duchesse. Before sending the soup to table taste it to ascertain whether it is sufficiently seasoned. Duchess Crust :—Cut the crust off a rasped French roll into strips; stamp or cut out these with a round tin or steel cutter into small pellets about the size of a shilling, and dry them in the oven to be ready for use. Consomme a la Vertpre This is prepared in the same manner as for spring soup, except that the crotltons k la duchesse are omitted, and in their stead a puree of green spinach, in sufficient quantity to thicken and colour the soup, should be added. Consomme Jardiniere Prepare the same vegetables as for spring soup, boil them in a strong consomnui, and just before sending the soup to table add to it a gill of puree of green peas. Consommd Julienne Take two red carrots, one turnip, and the white parts of one stick of leeks, one stick of celery, and one onion. Cut all these vegetables into fine shreds an inch long. Put them into a convenient-sized stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Simmer these vegetables on a slow fire, taking care they do