201 REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, ETC. neatly larded as for a fricandeau. Then prepare the venison for braising—in every respect following the directions given for that part of the process in the preceding recipe. Having carefully and frequently moistened the surface of the venison during the time it is braising, the venison, when done, will present, if properly attended to, a bright appearance. It should then be drained, and after being glazed and dished up with a rich Financiere ragoftt (see p. 44), in a Poivrade sauce made with port wine, garnish the haunch with three or four ornamental silver skewers, each furnished with a large double white cock’s-comb, a large black truffle, and a decorated quenelle; put a handsome ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Haunch of Red Deer Roasted a 1’fEcossaise Prepare and roast this kind of venison as described for dressing a haunch of venison it l’Anglaise; but it is necessary to allow it to hang longer than any other sort before dressing it, or it will be found to be tough. Haunch of Red Deer k la Glengarry Trim and remove the whole of the chine-bone of a small haunch of red deer, saw off the shank and scrape the leg-bone so as to show about an inch. Then pare off the whole of the surface (excepting the fat part) in an oval form, and lard it closely like a fricandeau; place the haunch in a large pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaves and thyme, cloves, mace and bruised peppercorns, adding to these a quart of common vinegar, a handful of salt, and half a gallon of water; let the haunch steep in this pickle for about ten days, taking care to turn it over twice a day, and at the expiration of that time the venison will be fit for dressing. After the venison has been marinaded, place it in a large oval braising-pan, and garnish with two carrots, two onions, two heads of celery, a bouquet garni, eight cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of Madeira and a quart of good stock; cover with a sheet of thick paper well buttered, let it boil, and then place the lid on and put the pan on a moderate fire to braise gently for five or six hours—moistening the larding of the venison frequently with its own liquor, by which means it will be nicely glazed. It should now be taken up on to a baking-sheet and placed in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze and dish it up. Pour a well-made Poivrade sauce under it, garnish round with quenelles of grouse, bread-crumbed and fried, and at each end place groups of venison fry; put a ruffle on the leg-bone, and send to table with sweet sauce separately in a boat. Haunch of Red Deer a la Kinnaird Prepare and dress a small haunch of red deer exactly as the foregoing; when done, glazed and dished up, garnish round with alternate groups of fried potatoes (cut into the shape of large olives, and fried in clarified butter) and round potato croquettes ; pour a well-made sweet sauce under it, and send to table.