91 FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS Madeira. Let the scallops boil a few minutes in the soup previously to adding the butter, etc. When about to serve up the soup pour it into a tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of lobster, and send to table. Sturgeon Soup a l’Anglaise Prepare the sturgeon for this soup in the same way as for the preceding, with the exception that the sauce must be white. Having made a quart of thin white Veloute sauce, and seasoned it with the same ingredients as before named, add a teaspoonful of turtle herbs (see p. 93), a glass of sherry, a liaison or binding of one yolk of egg, half a gill of cream, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. When about to send the soup to table pour it into the tureen con- taining the scallops of sturgeon cut into square pieces, one dozen small round pellets of yolks of eggs prepared as for turtle (see p. 94), and all the gelatinous parts of the sturgeon cut into scallops also. The pellets of yolks of eggs here alluded to are thus prepared :— Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pound them in the mortar with a pat of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of bread-crumb, soaked in milk and afterwards squeezed in a napkin to extract all the moisture from it; to these add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and bind with a little beaten egg. Mix the whole well together by pounding, and then proceed to mould this paste into small round balls or pellets, the size of a nut, and poach them as you would any other quenelles. Sturgeon Soup a la Chinoise Procure the head of a sturgeon, saw it in halves from the back of the head down to the snout; then saw the halves into pieces the size of your fist, and place them in a large-sized pan with cold water to soak for several hours, taking care to wash them and change the water frequently. Next put the pieces of sturgeon into a large stew- pan in plenty of cold water, and set them on the fire to boil gently until the husk or shell is easily detached from the pieces of cartilage or gristle; place the latter, when thoroughly freed from the meaty and fatty substances, in a large stew-pan; moisten with a quart of good veal stock. Garnish with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, three or four cloves, and a few peppercorns; boil gently for about two hours. As soon as you find that the pieces of cartilage are become transparent and rather soft to the touch, they must be immediately drained upon a sieve, and the liquor placed in a clean stew-pan and set beside the fire, adding a glass of good sherry and a small pinch of cayenne. Allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove for about half an hour, taking care to remove all the scum that rises to the surface ; after which add the pieces of cartilage and a squeeze of lemon, and serve. This soup is very strengthening; the wine, lemon juice, and cayenne may be dispensed with for invalids. The head of the sturgeon forms an excellent substitute for turtle, and may be dressed after the same manner.