136 THE MODERN COOK Gurnets Stuffed and Baked Cut off the fins and head from one or more gurnets, stuff them with veal-stuffing, sew them up, and score them with a sharp knife on both sides; then place the gurnets in a buttered baking-tin, season them with pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and about one ounce of butter; moisten with a glass of sherry, one tablespoonful of essence of mushrooms, and half a gill of consomme, and put in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes, taking care to baste them every five minutes until they are done. Then remove the gurnet on to a dish; reduce the essence to a demi-glaze, and incorporate it into one of the following sauces with a pat of butter and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies; pour the sauce over the gurnets and send to table. Either Piquante, Italienne, Gasconne, Provengale, Poivrade, Genoise, or Tomato sauce will suit this fish when prepared in the above manner. Gurnets a la Dauphine Cut off the heads and fins from one or more gurnets, boil them in water with a little salt and vinegar; when done, drain and skin them, then cover them with some stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and when this has cooled upon them, egg them over and cover with bread-crumbs, and place them on a buttered baking- sheet ; half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake, and as soon as they have acquired a golden colour, dish them up, and garnish round with some Ravigote sauce containing some crayfish tails, and send to table. Gurnets a la Genoise Boil or bake one or more gurnets in some mirepoix (see p. 57); drain, skim, glaze, and place them on their dish, and sauce them with Genoise sauce (see p. 9); garnish round with large crayfish, or quenelles of whiting or gurnet. Gurnets, either boiled or baked, may be sent to table with any kind of fish sauce; but as they do not possess any decided flavour of their own, sharp or Piquante sauce should be used in preference. Note.—Fillets of gurnets may be dressed in every variety of form, and served with any kind of sauce, similar to soles. Boiled Mackerel Boil the mackerel in salt and water, and keep below boiling point; dish it up, and send to table, either with Fennel, Parsley, or Gooseberry sauce. Broiled Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and oil it over; then place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire for ten to fifteen minutes. When the mackerel is done on one side, turn it over on the other; and as soon as it is done through, take it up on a dish and put some cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. 11) inside it, or pour a well-finished Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11) round it, and send to table.