92 THE MODERN COOK Sturgeon Soup a I’lndienne Prepare three pints of sturgeon consommt: as for the preceding soups, bearing in mind that it should be nearly colourless. Having strained the stock when done into a large basin, and preserved all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon, get a carrot, one stick of celery, and one onion, cut these into thin slices, and put them into a stew- pan with two ounces of butter and one ounce of raw ham cut into small pieces; fry the whole to a light-brown colour over a slow fire. When this is done add to the above-named ingredients two ounces of sifted flour to thicken the soup, and stir it on the fire a few minutes longer; then take the stew-pan off the stove and mix the sturgeon broth in carefully, so as to keep the sauce smooth. Add one dessertspoonful of curry paste, and after allowing it to boil, lift it off the fire and set it by the side of the stove, there to throw up all the butter it contains, and to clarify itself in the usual way. When this is effected, rub the soup sauce, including the vegetables, etc., through a tammy into a pur£e, which put into a soup-pot with the scallops and the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon; after boiling the whole together for a quarter of an hour, skim the surface, and finish by adding a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Send to table with a plate of plain boiled Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. Note.—See also pages 120, 132, 152. TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS Turtle Soup Procure a fine, lively fat turtle weighing about 120 lbs.—fish of this weight being considered the best, as their fat is not liable to be impregnated with that disagreeable strong savour objected to in fish of larger size. On the other hand, turtle of very small size seldom possess sufficient fat or substance to make them worth dressing. When time permits, kill the turtle overnight that it may be left to bleed in a cool place till the next morning, when, at an early hour, it should be cut up for scalding—that being the first part of the operation. If, however, the turtle is required for immediate use, to save time the fish may be scalded as soon as it is killed. The turtle being ready for cutting up, lay it on its back, and with a large kitchen-knife separate the fat or belly-shell from the back by making an incision all round the inner edge of the shell; when all the fleshy parts adhering to the shell have been carefully cut away it may be set aside. Then detach the intestines by running the sharp edge of a knife closely along the spine of the fish, and remove them instantly in a pail, to be thrown away. Cut off the fins and separate the fleshy parts, which place on a dish by them- selves till wanted. Take particular care of every particle of the green fat, which lies chiefly at the sockets of the fore-fins, and more or less all around the interior of the fish, if in good condition. Let this fat, which, when in a healthy state, is elastic and of a bluish