PHEASANTS 323 Pheasants a la Soubise These should be larded through the breasts lengthwise with strips of fat bacon about two inches long and a quarter of an inch square, seasoned with pepper and salt and chopped parsley; they must be afterwards trussed for boiling, then braised as in the fore- going recipe ; when done, dish up with a puree of onions a la Soubise (see p. 29) poured over them, and send to table. Pheasants a la Dauphine See Chicken a la Dauphine (p. 286), and proceed in the manner directed. Pheasants a la Paysanne Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, with the legs tucked inside; put them into an oval stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter and a piece of glaze the size of an egg, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire. They must be frequently turned, and care taken to prevent the glaze and butter from burning. When the pheasants are done, let the butter and glaze be poured off; add a glass of white wine and some good stock in sufficient quantity to serve for the gravy, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt; boil these together to detach the glaze from the sides of the stew-pan, and when the pheasants are dished up, pour this gravy over them, garnish with groups of fried potatoes cut into the shape of large olives, and serve. Pheasants k la Dauphinoise Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, braise them in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and when done, take them up, draw the strings, and allow them to get partially cold; then cover them entirely with some reduced Allemande sauce in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the pheasants have been braised in. This coating of sauce should be allowed to cool, and then must be bread-crumbed over with one or two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese mixed with the bread-crumbs. The pheasants must now be placed in a deep baking-tin or pie-dish, previously well buttered, and the remaining half of the braise added to moisten the bottom of the pan. Half an hour before dinner-time sprinkle the pheasants with a little clarified butter, and set them in the oven to be baked to a very light-fawn colour—frequently basting them with clarified butter while baking. When done, dish them up side by side, garnish with a border of quenelles of polenta, pour a Brown Italian sauce under them, and serve. The quenelles of polenta above alluded to should be thus made :— Put into a small stew-pan two and a half ounces of butter, half a pint of water, a little mignonette pepper and salt; set these on the fire to boil, and then mix in with them four ounces of polenta (a preparation of Indian corn); stir this again over the fire until it