3<5° THE MODERN COOK wooden spoon, just like a Mayonnaise, adding sufficient best salad oil (about a quarter of a gill) and the juice of a lemon. Season with a pinch of paprika or cayenne. Dress in dome shape on a cold dish, surrounded with crushed ice, garnish with quarters of lemon and serve with fingers of freshly toasted bread. Canapes of Caviare Prepare some slices of toasted bread, butter them, and stamp out into rounds about one and a half inches in diameter. Spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig of parsley or water-cress on top of the olives, dish up and serve cold. If required to be served hot as a savoury, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for five minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case the dish should be garnished with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of eggs. Caviare Rosettes Mix the contents of a small jar of Russian caviare with a tea- spoonful of lemon juice and one of finely chopped shalots. (Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer.) Cut thin slices of toasted brown bread into heart shapes of even size: spread one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral. Put in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and decorate the border of each with it. Dish up with the pointed ends of the crofites inwards, so as to form a rosette shape. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon, and serve. Olives as Hors-d’oeuvre Both Spanish and French olives are suitable as hors-d’oeuvres, the Spanish being the most esteemed; they should remain on the table until the dessert is served. It is claimed that olives destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten; hence they are so popular a relish. Choose them firm, and of a nice green colour. Steep them in cold water before serving; dish up on small dishes or boats with a little cold water. Never use a metal fork or spoon to dress them. Those left over from a meal should be rebottled at once with salted water, else they will turn black. Olives a la Madras Nine Spanish olives, 9 anchovy fillets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i tea- spoonful of chutney, 1 dessertspoonful of Anchovy sauce or paste, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 9 fried bread croutes, or rounds of triscuit fried in butter. Stone the olives, pound in a mortar the butter, anchovy paste, yolks of eggs, chutney, and seasoning, and rub them through a sieve. Spread a little of the puree on each crofite, put a stoned olive filled with the same pur£e on each. Decorate with lobster coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy fillet round the base of each olive, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve.