THE MODERN COOK 3°2 its being placed in the mould. When the mould is lined, the centre must be filled up with some sort of vegetables cut smaller, and tossed in aspic jelly seasoned with a little mignonette pepper and salt, and a very little salad oil and tarragon vinegar; the mould must then be set on ice until quite firm. The border should then be turned out upon a dish, and the fillets of fowls (previously stamped out with a cutter dipped in hot water) must be placed on the top of the border, in circular order, each one overlapping the other; fill the centre of the entree with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) tossed in a little glaze and aspic jelly; garnish with bold croutons of jelly, and serve. Chicken en Belle-Vue (Cold) Truss a chicken or fowl for boiling, and braise it in white stock in the usual manner; when done, let it get cold, and mask it com- pletely with some reduced Bechamel sauce, in which should be mixed a fourth part of dissolved aspic jelly. Previous to saucing the chicken, the Bechamel must be stirred in a stew-pan surrounded by crushed ice until it just begins to get firm; it should then be immediately poured over the chicken; decorate the breasts with black truffles or red tongue, and place upon a dish; ornament by placing a roll of chopped aspic jelly round, then outside this seme bold croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Mayonnaise of Chicken Cut the breasts from two lightly roasted chickens and cut them each into three equal-sized pieces. Dust these with seasoning, con- sisting of three parts salt and one part paprika, and a little nutmeg ground very fine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over them and put them on the ice. Prepare a decorated aspic border containing as its base some finely shredded lettuce mixedpvith Mayonnaise sauce. Prepare some Mayonnaise sauce into which a third part double cream has been incorporated, and some aspic jelly or a little gelatine, so that it will not run off the pieces of chicken. Mask the latter with the prepared sauce, and let stand for ten minutes. In the meantime prepare a nice lettuce salad with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, dressed with Mayonnaise sauce and double cream mixed in equal proportion. Set this in the ice to get thoroughly cold. About twenty minutes before serving turn the mould out on to a dish, fill the centre with the salad, and place the pieces of chicken neatly on the top, garnish with sprigs of tarragon and croutons of aspic jelly, and place again in the ice until ready to serve. Chicken Salad Roast a chicken, and when cold cut it up into small joints, remove the skin, trim them neatly, and steep them in a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Prepare a decorated aspic border, as directed in the preceding recipe; when this has been turned out on a dish, pile up the pieces of chicken in the centre upon some shred lettuces in a conical form; mask them with some