31 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING add one good-sized cucumber, trimmed and cut up for the purpose. Set the stew-pan on a slow fire, there to simmer for ten minutes, at the expiration of which time add a gill of white sauce. Reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire, and when it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, pour in two tablespoonfuls of good sweet double cream and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the puree again on the fire, and then rub it through the tammy in the usual manner and take it up into a small stew-pan for use. Puree of French Beans Shred two or three handfuls of French beans, boil them quickly to a green colour, taking care to boil with them a few sprigs of picked parsley and one or two onions. When they are done, drain the whole on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a saute-pan with a gill of good white sauce, a piece of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Reduce the puree on the fire, and then rub it through a tammy, put into a small stew-pan, and just before using it mix in a small ounce of butter and a few drops of spinach-green. Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes This puree is made exactly in the same manner as the puree of potatoes, merely substituting Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes. Puree of Seakale Wash and boil a small bundle of good white seakale, and drain it on a napkin; cut it into half-inch lengths, and place it in a stew-' pan with one ounce of fresh butter, some mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, a little sugar, and half a pint of white stock; cover with a round of buttered paper, and cover the stew-pan with its lid; set it on a moderate fire to simmer for twenty minutes, then add a gill of good white sauce. Reduce the puree quickly to the condition of a soft paste, and then add two tablespoonfuls of cream. After reducing it five minutes longer, rub the puree through the tammy, and put into a small stew-pan and keep hot until required for use. VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING Garnish of Truffles in Glaze1 Cut a dozen or more of truffles in various fancy shapes, such as small round balls, olives, quarters of orange, small pillars, and circular scallops. Place them in a small stew-pan with a little fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of glaze. Put on the lid of the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire to simmer for five or ten minutes. Toss the truffles thus prepared in their glaze, and use them to garnish the centre of an entree, or for any other appropriate purpose. 1 This is the foundation of all garnishes of truffles and mushrooms ; an infinite variety may be made by adding to the truffles, prepared as above, some special sauce, the addition of which will then give its name to the garnish.