THE MODERN COOK IOO an inch square and half an inch thick; put these into a small sauce- pan and add to them one or two small carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and boiled in a little broth, a lump of sugar, and also half-a-dozen very small white button onions. Strain the clarified consomme thus prepared into the sauce-pan, and having allowed the soup to boil a few minutes by the side of the fire, just before serving, add a pinch of mignonette pepper and send to table. Deer’s=Head Soup a la Chasseur1 Procure a young deer’s head perfectly fresh, scald it and cleanse it thoroughly; proceed then to prepare the soup in exactly the same manner as for mock-turtle ; just before sending to table add two dozen small quenelles made with deer’s flesh, together -with some small scallops of deer simmered in a little fresh butter and fine herbs. Take care that the soup does not boil after the scallops are added to it. Grouse Soup Roast a brace of young grouse, take the whole of the meat from the bones, carefully cutting out the lower part of their backs, which, being bitter, must be rejected. Set aside four of the fillets, cut them into scallops, to be put in the soup afterwards. Put the carcases and bones of the grouse into a stew-pan with a glass or two of sherry, a carrot, onion, half a stick of celery, a few cloves, a couple of shalots, and a blade of mace; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, after which add three pints of good stock, and having allowed it to boil an hour and a half, strain it off into a basin. Pound the whole of the meat yielded by the grouse, excepting the four fillets before named, mixing with it a good tablespoonful of rice boiled in broth ; moisten with the grouse essence, and pass it through the tammy or a fine sieve into a purde, and put it into a small basin. Just before dinner-time warm the pur^e, taking the usual precaution to prevent it from curdling; pour it into the soup-tureen containing the scallops of the fillets of grouse and eighteen very small quenelles of the same. PUREES OF POULTRY AND GAME Puree of Fowl a la Reine Boil one medium-sized chicken, free all the meat from the bones, chop and pound it thoroughly with three ounces of boiled rice; dilute it with three pints of chicken stock made with the skin and carcase of the chicken used for the puree, and rub it through a tammy or fine sieve with the aid of two wooden spoons into a large dish. Put the pur£e into a basin, and put it away in the larder till dinner-time; then warm it, with the usual precaution to prevent its curdling; mix with it a gill of cream, and having ascertained that the soup is well seasoned, send to table. 1 This will be found a very useful soup in those parts of the country where deer abound.