THE MODERN COOK 126 Sturgeon a la Russe Braise three to four pounds of sturgeon as usual, either in some wine mirepoix or merely in vinegar and water when economy is an object. When the sturgeon is done, take off the skin, trim, and mask it with some stiff glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral; ornament it on the centre with some small fillets of gurnet contises with green gherkins,-—previously placed in a buttered saute-pan, in the shape of half-moons and simmered in a little butter,—at each end place a row of trimmed olives; pour round it some rich Genoise sauce (see p. 9) finished with a good piece of' lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, two teaspoonfuls of capers, some trimmed olives, and one dozen crayfish tails. Sturgeon a 1’Anglaise Trim and skin a fine piece of sturgeon weighing four to six pounds, line the inside with some well-seasoned ordinary veal-stuffing; replace the skin and secure it with string; put the sturgeon on a drainer in the fish-kettle; garnish with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, mace, peppercorns, and six cloves, a dessertspoonful of trimmings of mushrooms, and a little salt; moisten with a glass or two of wine or a little stock ; cover with a well-buttered paper, and set it on the fire to boil; then place it on a slow fire to stew gently till it is done. Next drain, trim, and glaze it; place it on a dish and keep warm until dinner-time. Meanwhile take some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been Stewed, with a glass of good port wine, and boil the whole down to half glaze, and add it to a good gill of finished Espagnole or brown sauce ; work in a pat of anchovy butter, and one pat of fresh butter, a little cayenne, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice; pour the sauce into a stew-pan containing a few button- mushrooms, scallops of lobster, and small quenelles of whiting coloured with some very fine chopped and blanched parsley; allow the whole to boil up for a minute on the stove ; sauce the sturgeon over with this ragout; garnish it round with a border of large crayfish, and serve. Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of preparation, may be dressed similarly to salmon in all its varieties. COD-FISH Cod and Oyster Sauce Boil two and a half to three pounds of cod, whether it be crimped or plain, in boiling water, into which throw a handful of salt; as soon as the fish is done, drain it instantly, and place it on a dish with a clean wet napkin over it to keep it moist: just before dinner, take off the napkin and send the cod to table with a sauce-boat full of white Oyster sauce (see p. 13). Cod-fish is rarely dressed whole, as, in addition to its unwieldy size, the length of time required to boil so large a fish deprives it of flavour. _