DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 119 Salmon a la Venitienne Boil, trim, and glaze the slices of salmon as in the foregoing recipe, and sauce them round with a Venetian sauce (see p. 8). Garnish with a border of croquettes of fillets of soles. Cold Salmon Souffles a la Gauloise J lb. cold cooked salmon, J cucumber, J gill Bechamel sauce, i^r gill aspic jelly, fish essence, £ gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika, and nutmeg for seasoning, 1 truffle and chervil leaves for garnish. Peel and slice the cucumber, and cut out eight thin rings. Free the fish from skin and bones, put the latter in a stew-pan with one glass of claret, stock, and usual vegetables, and make into essence. Pound the salmon in a mortar; when fine enough, add the sauce and the remainder of the cucumber which has been previously blanched in salted water and well drained. Rub all through a fine sieve, and incorporate about half a gill of aspic, the fish essence, and seasoning to taste. Whip the cream till stiff, and stir into the above. Fill up eight small china or silver-plated souffle cases, each provided with a paper band, and place them on the ice; when set, put a ring of cucumber on top of each souffle and fill the cavity with aspic flavoured with fish essence. To serve, remove the paper bands, decorate the centre of each with a neatly cut slice of truffle and chervil leaves, then dish up and send to table. Salmon a la Verdi Procure a tail or jowl piece of salmon, weighing about two pounds, remove the skin and bone carefully, season with pepper and salt, and place it on a buttered fireproof dish. Moisten with a glass of Chablis or Hock, and poach in the oven for fifteen minutes or longer, accord- ing to the thickness of the fish. Have ready enough Cardinal sauce to well coat the fish and the base of the dish. Put a layer of Bearnaise sauce in the centre; upon this strew some very finely cut shreds of truffles, and serve. Mousse of Salmon a la Cardinal 1 lb. salmon, \ oz. butter, \ pint well-reduced Bechamel, 1 white of egg, lobster coral, 2 truffles. Seasoning, Cardinal sauce. Skin and bone the salmon, pound in a mortar until quite fine, add gradually the reduced Bechamel sauce and the white of egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Put through a fine wire- or hair-sieve and keep on the ice until wanted. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, decorate the bottom and sides of each with fancifully cut slices of truffles, sprinkle all over the inside with finely chopped dried lobster coral. Fill them with the salmon force-meat, steam for twenty-five minutes, dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sauce Cardinal.