CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 3°i Kromeskis of Chicken a la Russe Cut the fillets of half a roast fowl into very small neat dice, and put them on a plate with a tablespoonful of mushrooms and truffles, also cut into small dice. Stir a good gill of Bechamel or Allemande sauce over the fire until stiffly reduced, and then throw in the minced chicken, etc., mix the whole well together, spread it out upon a dish about an inch thick, and leave to get cold. Next cut this preparation into small pieces somewhat in the form of a common cork, and place them on a dish; they must then be dipped in some light batter, and fried crisp in plenty of hot fat. Dish up with fried parsley in the centre, and serve immediately. Chicken Croquettes with Mushrooms The mince for these is prepared in the same way as for Kromeskis, and when it has become cold, must be cut up in pieces about the size of a plover’s egg, and rolled in bread-crumbs, either in the form of corks, pears, or very small cutlets; they must next be dipped in beaten egg and bread-crumbed a second time; roll them smooth, and if they have been shaped like pears, a stalk of green parsley should be stuck into each to imitate the stalks of pears. Just before sending to table, fry the croquettes a golden colour in hot fat, dish up on a napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve. Chicken Myice or Salpicon for Patties Cut the fillets of half a roast fowl into small dice, then take two dozen mushrooms, one truffle, and a small piece of red tongue and cut these also in a similar way; mix all these with the fowl, add a good gill of sauce, either Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole, and use this mixture for filling patties, or croustades. Fillets of Fowl a la Victoria (Cold) Prepare the fillets of a young fowl as for a Supreme (see p. 290); simmer, drain, and put them in press between two dishes; when cold, trim them neatly, dip each fillet either in some Supreme (see p. 10) or Bechamel sauce (see p. 3) mixed with one-fourth part of dissolved aspic jelly, place them with the smoothest side uppermost in a dish or saute-pan, and set them on ice. Next cover the bottom of a large saut£-pan with some dissolved aspic jelly, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch ; when this has become firm, by cooling, place the fillets upon it in circular order, and decorate the upper part of each with black truffles; the fillets must then be covered with a little bright aspic jelly, to produce the same thickness upon the upper surface as the under. While this is going on, a border of vegetables should be prepared as follows:—First cut some carrots and turnips with vegetable cutters, as for a chartreuse, and boil them separately; prepare also some French beans or asparagus-heads, and green peas, which, when boiled, must be used to ornament a border mould in exactly the same manner as a chartreuse: taking care that each piece of vegetable must be first dipped in some aspic jelly previous to