THE MODERN COOK 43 2 Mille=Feuilles Cake1 a la Chantilly Give seven turns to one pound of puff paste (see p. 393) and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; then, with a circular cutter about five inches in diameter, stamp out eight or ten rounds; place these on baking-sheets, stamp out the centre part from each of the rounds, leaving only a circular band about two inches wide; dredge over some fine sugar, and bake a light colour, and when done leave to become cold. The rounds must now be raised one upon another, with layers of some kind of preserve between each, and placed on a baking-sheet, in order that the cake may be entirely covered with a thin coating of whipped whites of eggs mixed with sugar; this must be smoothed over with the blade of a knife, and should then be ornamented with a forcing bag and pipe filled with some of the white of egg: as soon as this is completed, shake some fine sugar over it, and dry a very light colour in a slow oven. When the decoration of the cake has been dried, it must be ornamented with bright red- currant and apple jelly, placed tastefully about the design so as to give it more effect. On sending to table, fill the centre of the cake with whipped cream flavoured with some kind of liqueur, garnish the dome of cream with strawberries, and serve. The above may also be ornamented with spun sugar or with pistachios. The centre of these cakes may also be filled with a Macedoine of fruit in jelly, or with any of the various kinds of creams; the latter should be whipped on the ice until nearly set. Baked Banana Custard Break four fresh eggs separately into a basin, add one ounce of castor sugar and beat up thoroughly, then add the pulp of three ripe bananas and one pint of milk. Pour this into one large or two smaller buttered pie-dishes, grate over a little nutmeg or powdered cinnamon, and bake slowly in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Apples and Rice, Ornamented Peel and core carefully six to eight golden pippins; boil these very gently in some light syrup for about ten minutes, when they will be sufficiently done. Then prepare half a pound of rice in the same manner as on p. 428, observing that for this purpose it must be kept firmer. Prepare also a circular or oval raised pie-case (see p. 386) about three inches high, taking care that its diameter suits the dish it is meant for. When the case is baked, fill it with the prepared rice, and pile the apples up in a pyramidal form, placing some of the rice in the centre of these. Mash the whole with some diluted apricot jam, place a preserved cherry on the top of each apple, and insert some pieces of angelica cut in the form of pointed leaves in between the apples. This dish should be served hot, and must therefore be dished up only a short time previous to serving. 1 Or “ thousand-leaved1' cake, so called from the lightness of the puff paste with which it is made.