THE MODERN COOK 28o chicken in this, and replace them on the dish; when the sauce has become set upon them by cooling, roll in bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and bread-crumb over again. When about to send to table, place the pieces of chicken thus prepared in a frying-basket, plunge into plenty of clean hot fat, fry a light golden colour; and when done, drain well, and dish up on a clean napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve some White Italian sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Note.—This entree may also be dished up with some Allemande or Bechamel sauce, containing a few chopped mushrooms or truffles, poured under and round it. Fricassee of Chicken in Aspic Prepare a fricassee of chickens as directed (see p. 278); keep the pieces of chickens separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly reduced, previous to incorporating the liaison of eggs in it; and when this has been done, add about one-third of its quantity of melted aspic jelly; stir them together on the ice, and when well mixed, dip the pieces of chicken in it, and dish up. The entree should be raised in a conical form, and neatly masked with the remainder of the sauce, so as to detach each piece of chicken in relief. Place some fine white cocks’-combs, white button-mushrooms, and glazed truffles in the cavities; surmount the whole with a large truffle, in which a large white cock’s-comb has been inserted, garnish the base with some chopped aspic jelly, and place a border of angular or fancy-shaped croutons of bright aspic jelly round this. Fricassee of Chicken a la Financiere Prepare this as directed on p. 278, and when dished up, garnish with groups of cocks’-combs, mushrooms, truffles, and some small quenelles of fowl. Fricassee of Chicken a la Chevaliere When the chicken has been drawn and singed, remove the legs and wings, and then, with the point of a knife, slit the skin of the breast, and remove the fillets with the pinion-bone left on them; each fillet must be trimmed and larded, and placed in a small stew- pan upon thin layers of fat bacon; the remainder of the chicken must be cut up and made into a fricassee in the ordinary way. When this is done, the legs must be neatly trimmed and set aside in the larder, and the smaller pieces placed in a stew-pan with a few button-mushrooms and truffles; reduce the liquor by boiling it to the consistency of Allemande sauce, incorporate a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a small piece of glaze, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; when this has become set in the sauce by stirring it over the fire for two minutes, pass two-thirds of it through a tammy on to the fricassee, and keep the rest for masking the legs. These must be afterwards bread- crumbed and fried. The larded fillets should be moistened with a little half-glaze, and put in the oven or on a slow fire to braise or