43 6 THE MODERN COOK Croquante of Fresh Walnuts The best time for making this is when the walnuts are just ripe enough to be easily taken out of the shell; about three dozen will be required for the purpose. They must be carefully shelled and divided into halves, then peeled and kept in a clean napkin until used. In all other respects, this kind of croquante must be finished as in the last recipe. Croquante of Macaroons a la Chantilly Take half a pound of small macaroons, boil down half a pound of the finest loaf sugar as directed in the Croquante of Oranges. Rub the inside of a basket-shaped mould with oil, and proceed to line this with the macaroons lightly dipped in the sugar—taking care to arrange them in neat and close order; when the croquante is completed, and the sugar has become firmly set, turn it out of the mould. With the remainder of the sugar form the handles and a scroll-pattern border, to place round the join of the basket and also round the edge. Just before sending the croquante to table fill the inside with whipped cream, arrange some strawberries, preserved cherries, or cut angelica neatly on the surface, and serve. Meringue a la Parisienne First make half a pound of office-paste (see p. 392); then slightly oil the outside of a vegetable cutter, about one and a quarter inches in diameter, and cover this, to the extent of about three and a half inches in length, with some of the office-paste rolled out thinly; fasten the join neatly with egg, and place on a baking-sheet. Roll out the remainder of the paste to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and out of this cut two rounds, one measuring about six inches and the other four inches in diameter; place these on a buttered baking-sheet, egg over, prick with a fork, and bake in a slow oven When they are done and have become cold, file or scrape the edges even and smooth, and cut the ends of the pillar even that it may stand perfectly level; then fasten the base of the pillar on to the centre of the largest round with a little white of egg and castor sugar mixed together; next fasten the smaller round on the top of the pillar in like manner, taking care that it is quite straight, and put the whole in a warm place to dry. Whip six whites of eggs to a firm froth, and then mix in half a pound of finely sifted sugar; use part of this to mask the entire surface of the foundation already described, and set this to dry at the mouth of the oven; when it has become comparatively hard, fill a forcing-bag with some of the meringue, and force out a design round the pedestal of the meringue : when this is done, dredge it over with sugar, and put it into the oven to bake a light-fawn colour. With part of the meringue, a kind of cup or deep saucer, measuring about five inches in diameter, must be formed by covering a flat dome with the mixture to the thickness of about an inch;