SAUCES IN GENERAL 9 Genoise Sauce Cut one ounce of ham, small carrot, celery, small onion, parsley roots, and three or four mushrooms into very thin slices ; place these in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a sprig of thyme and a bay- leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves, and fry them on the stove for a few minutes ; moisten with a glass of red wine (claret suits best). Boil the whole for five minutes; add a gill of brown sauce and a gill of consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it to clarify by the side of the stove-fire; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Just before dinner-time add a small piece of anchovy butter, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and squeeze of lemon juice. Matelote Sauce Take half a pint of fish stock and wine in which fish has been stewed, and add to it a gill of brown sauce and some trimmings, or half a gill of essence of mushrooms ; stir this on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim and reduce it, and then pass it into a bain-marie; finish by adding a little anchovy butter, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Norman Matelote Sauce Reduce half a pint of white Velout£ sauce with half a gill of essence of mushrooms, one glass of French white wine, and a quarter of a pint of liquor from the mussels and oysters used for the matelote ; add a liaison of three yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, some nutmeg, and squeeze of lemon juice ; and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Bigarade Sauce With the carcase of one roasted duck make one pint of essence, clarify it, and reduce it to half glaze. To this add a small teaspoonful of worked Espagnole, the juice of one orange, and the rind of one entirely free from any portion of the white pith; and, having cut the rind into diamond shapes, blanch these pieces for three minutes in boiling water, and then put them into the sauce, which, after boiling for five minutes, pour into a bain-marie for use. Aromatic Sauce Put into a small stew-pan a few sprigs of winter-savory, of sweet basil, and lemon thyme, six leaves of sage and two bay-leaves, two shalots, some nutmeg and pepper, and half a pint of good consommd ; boil this quickly on the fire for ten minutes; pass it through a sieve into a stew-pan, and reduce it with an equal proportion of white sauce; add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and pass the sauce into a bain-marie containing half-a-dozen stewed morels. Just before using this sauce add a pat of butter, some lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon and chervil.