CAKES IN GENERAL 401 rather thick orange syrup, containing a glassful of curagao, and send hot to table. To vary its appearance, this kind of cake is sometimes, after being first well soaked with a warm rich syrup, rolled all over in orange or lemon sugar. Savoy Cake Ingredients : ^ lb. finely sifted castor sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz. fine flour, and 4 oz. potato flour. First separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, taking care not to drop the least portion of the yolks into the whites, as any mixture of the two makes it impossible to whisk the whites firm. Add the sugar to the yolks, throw in as much salt as will stand on a sixpence, and either some vanilla, lemon, or orange sugar, or else a few drops of any kind of essence, such as orange, lemon, orange- flowers, vanilla, or bitter almonds. Work these together with a wooden spoon until the mixture looks like a thick creamy batter. The whites must now be whisked very stiffly; while this is going on, let both the wheaten and potato flour be well mixed in with the batter. As soon as the whites are satisfactorily whisked,1 mix them also very gradually in with the batter. Pour the batter thus pre- pared into a well-greased mould, dredged evenly all over with castor sugar. Tie a broad band of paper (folded in three) round the Savoy mould, and put a few wood-ashes on the baking-sheet under the cake. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty-five minutes. The best way to ascertain whether the cake is done is to run a steel skewer down the centre, and if the skewer comes out clean, it will be safe to turn the cake out of the mould. Fingers or Naples Biscuits Prepare a batter as directed in the previous recipe; then fill a forcing-bag with some of it, and after securely folding down the open end, proceed to use the batter in the following manner:—Cut a sheet of greased foolscap paper in two, fold these lengthwise, in order to mark a straight line along the centre of the half-sheets, and place over a baking-sheet; the forcer must then be held in the right hand, pressing the batter out by working the thumb upon it, while the pointed end, which must be a plain pipe, must be guided with the left hand. In this manner the biscuits must be spread, or rather dropped, in straight lines, resembling fingers, about three inches long by half an inch wide, in two rows, divided by the line in the centre of the paper. When the sheet is full, sprinkle the biscuits with finely sifted castor sugar, and put in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour until a light golden colour. 1 The whites must be whisked slowly at first, increasing the motion of the hand gradually until it reaches the greatest possible speed : the motion of the whisk must be kept up at this rate, until the whites are sufficiently firm, when they must be instantly mixed in with the batter—otherwise they are liable to dissolve and so lose their consistency. 2 D