3 76 THE MODERN COOK omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire until the eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelet. Put the prepared bananas in the centre, fold in the sides of the omelet, and let it take colour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. Oyster Omelet This is made in the same manner as above, merely substituting eight to ten chopped oysters for the kidneys. Poached Egg's with Anchovy Toast Break four to six new-laid eggs into separate small cups, or dariole moulds, then drop them one after the other into a saute-pan con- taining boiling water mixed with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a little salt; keep this boiling while the eggs are being dropped in at the side of the saute-pan, and when they have poached for two minutes, drain, trim, and place each egg upon a square or oval piece of dry toast, spread with Anchovy butter (see p. 42), and some thin fillets of anchovies; dish up in a close circle, pour a little half-glaze under them, put a pinch of mignonette pepper in the centre of each egg, and serve. Poached Eggs with Ham Poach the eggs as before, and when done, dish up on thin oval slices of fried ham; pour some thin Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under, and serve. Eggs a la Dauphine Boil six to eight eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut each egg into halves lengthwise; scoop out the yolks and put them into the mortar, and place the whites on a dish. Add two ounces of butter to the yolks of eggs, also the soaked crumb of a French roll, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; pound the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the whites of eggs kept on one side; smooth over with the blade of a small knife dipped in water, and as they are filled, place them on a dish. Next, with some of the remaining part of the preparation, spread a thin foundation at the bottom of the dish, and raise the eggs up, in three or four tiers, to a pyramidal form, a single egg crowning the whole: place a border of fried croutons of bread round the base, and set the eggs in the oven for about twenty minutes that they may bake a golden colour; when done, pour some thin Bechamel round the eggs, and serve. Eggs a l’Aurore Boil six eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each egg into halves lengthwise; take the yolks out and place them on a dish, shred the whites up in fine strips and put these into a stew-pan with half a pint of Aurora sauce (see p. 11), toss them over the fire until quite hot, and then dish up in the centre of a border of croutons. First place a layer of the whites, then shake a little grated Parmesan cheese, after which rub some of the yolks through