460 THE MODERN COOK Strawberry Bavarian Cream Pick the stalks from a pint of ripe strawberries, and mash them in a basin with three or four ounces of castor sugar ; rub this through a sieve, and mix it with a pint of whipped cream and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water; pour the cream into a mould previously oiled with oil of sweet almonds, set it on ice, and when firm, turn out on a dish. Note.—Raspberries, mulberries, currants, and raspberries may be prepared in the same way by following the above directions. Brown-Bread Cream Prepare four ounces of bread-crumbs obtained from a stale wholemeal loaf; fry these in one ounce of butter till crisp, put them into a basin, and pour over three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk. Rasp in the rind of half a lemon, and add three ounces of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Soak and dissolve in a little milk three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine; strain this into the above mixture and stir wTell. Whip up half a pint of cream and mix with the above when almost cold. Pour into a jelly or pudding mould, and put it in a cool place to set. When required for table, dip the mould into lukewarm water for a few seconds, wipe it quickly with a cloth, and turn out on to a cold dish. Apricot Bavarian Cream Split six or eight ripe apricots, and remove the stones; put the pieces in a small preserving pan with three ounces of castor sugar and a gill of water, then stir them on the fire and let them boil until the fruit is entirely dissolved; this purde must then be rubbed through a clean hair-sieve into a basin, and mixed with a pint of whipped cream and three-quarters of an ounce of sheet gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Pour the cream into an oiled mould, and set on ice in the usual way. This sort of cream may be also prepared with all kinds of plums instead of apricots. Coffee Cream Mix half a pint of boiling milk with half a gill of strong coffee or coffee essence. Strain this into a sauce-pan containing three yolks of eggs, three ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Stir the custard over the fire until it begins to thicken, and when the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set, strain the custard into a basin. Mix half a pint of whipped cream in with this; when cool, pour the whole into a mould ready set on ice, and when the cream has become firm, dip the mould in warm water, turn out the cream, and serve. Chocolate Cream Grate four ounces of vanilla chocolate, put this into a stew-pan with three ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a pint of milk. Stir the whole over the fire until the yolks of eggs are sufficiently