THE MODERN COOK 39° two or three mushrooms, a shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, a little green thyme, sweet basil, and tarragon : put these ingredients into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and simmer them over the fire for about five minutes; then add about half a pint of good brown sauce and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and stir the whole together over the fire for five minutes longer. Next roll out two-thirds of the paste to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, line a greased oblong mould with this, and fill with alternate layers of slices of salmon, hard egg, olives, and fillets of anchovies, at the same time spreading some of the Fine Herbs sauce in between each layer; the pie must be covered in with the remainder of the paste in the usual manner. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour and a half, and when done, dish up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—These pies may also be made with sturgeon, trout, mackerel, char, gurnets, eels, soles, etc.; the addition of some sliced tunny fish 1 will greatly improve the flavour. Preserved Hare and other Game Bone a small hare, lard it with narrow strips of fat bacon, well seasoned with aromatic spices (see p. 391), and salt; then stuff the inside with some force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), and fold up the hare so as to give it a plump oval form; sew up neatly; then place in an oval stew-pan with a little stock; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, put the lid on the stew-pan, and put it in the oven to partially cook the hare: it should then be withdrawn. Meanwhile line the bottom and sides of a sufficiently large oval baking-dish with thin layers of fat bacon, over these spread a coating of force-meat about an inch thick, and place the hare in it; press down tight, spread a thick layer of force-meat on the top, cover with layers of fat bacon, and place a covering of ordinary short paste over the whole; put the baking-dish on a baking-sheet in the oven to bake slowly for about two hours: it should then be withdrawn and allowed to cool. Remove the paste, and after pouring over the surface some well-reduced glaze, to the depth of about a quarter of an inch, keep the pie in a cool place until wanted for use. When this kind of pie is intended to be kept for any length of time, some lard should be run over the surface to the depth of about an inch; when this has set firm by cooling, the dish should be covered in with strong white paper pasted over it, or a bladder (soaked in water and well washed) may be tied over it. Note.—All kinds of game may be preserved after this method ; and, if preferred, game may be used instead of livers for making the force-meat. Indeed, this is by far the best plan when the preserved game is intended to be kept for any length of time, as force-meat, when made with livers, is more liable to fermentation than when made with fresh game. 1 Tunny is a fish abounding in the Mediterranean, and may be procured pre- served in oil from Italian warehousemen and grocery stores.