THE MODERN COOK IIO Macaroni Soup a la St. Pierre Cut three ounces of macaroni that have been boiled into inch lengths, place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of lobster-coral butter and a little cayenne, simmer it gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then place a fourth part in a silver soup lining ; on this sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese, then put a layer of blanched soft roes of mackerel, over which place some grated cheese; again cover this with some prepared scallops of salmon, and thus repeat the foregoing instructions until the ingredients are all used up, finish- ing this part of the operation by sprinkling over the whole some grated cheese and adding a pint of good consomme ; lastly, place the lining in the oven to gratinate, which must be carefully attended to. Send the soup to table with another tureen of clear bright consomme, to be served in the same manner as described in the preceding recipe. Semolina Soup a la Palermo Mix four ounces of wheaten flour with the same quantity of Turkish wheat flour, place these on the paste-board or slab, and having made a hollow in the centre, place in it two or three yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of cream, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; proceed to work these into a firmly-kneaded paste. Spread this out very thin with the aid of a rolling-pin, and having cut it into bands an inch wide, shred these so as to resemble vermicelli. Strew these shreds on a large baking-sheet covered with paper, and put them to dry for four hours in a cool oven. A quarter of an hour before dinner-time throw the shreds thus prepared into three pints of boiling game consomme; skim this, and place the stew-pan containing the soup by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling until the time for serving; then, after adding a pinch of mignonette pepper, send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate to be handed round with the soup. Semolina Soup a la V^nitienne Sprinkle two ounces of semolina into two quarts of boiling con- somme of game; after boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire for a quarter of an hour, add a glass of Madeira, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a gill of cream mixed with two yolks of eggs, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Set this pre- paration on the fire,—taking care not to let it curdle,—then pour the soup into a tureen containing the fillets of half-a-dozen larks which have been simmered with fine herbs. Stir the soup gently into the tureen in order to mix the scallops with the semolina. In Italy the fillets of a small delicious bird called Beccaficas are used instead of larks. Semolina Soup a la Pisane Bone and braise two calf’s feet, and having pressed them between two dishes, cut them out into round pieces the size of a shilling, with a tin cutter; place these in a stew-pan together with one dozen very