THE MODERN COOK 45 2 Note.—In addition to the foregoing, puddings may also be made with every kind of preparation described for making timbales or cakes of rice, vermicelli, macaroni, nouilles, etc. These may be either steamed in a mould or pudding basin, or baked in a pie-dish. JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES Calf’s = Foot Jelly Split four calf’s feet, break up the bones, and put the whole into a large stew-pan or stock-pot; fill up with about a gallon of cold water, and put it on the fire to boil; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and when the stock has been thoroughly skimmed, leave it to continue gently boiling for about five hours. The stock must then be strained off into a basin or pan, and set aside in a cool place until it has become firm. The grease should be scraped off the surface with a spoon, and a little boiling water thrown over it in order to wash away any that may remain; it should then be wiped with a clean cloth and put into a stew-pan to melt over the fire. Next add one pound of loaf-sugar, twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind and juice of four lemons peeled very thinly and without any of the pith, then the whites and shells of six eggs; whip this well together over the fire, and when it is just upon boiling, add a pint of sherry and half a glass of brandy, stir the jelly with the whisk for a minute or so, and then set the stew-pan by the side of the fire; put on the lid, and leave the jelly to stand by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour longer to set the eggs. Next pour the jelly into a jelly-bag through which some boiling water has been poured; continue pouring the jelly back again through the bag several times until it runs quite bright and clear; then cover over the stand with a cloth, and leave the jelly to run until the whole has passed through. This kind of jelly may either be served in glasses, or set in moulds embedded in ice; when it has become quite firm, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out carefully on a dish. Clarification of Calf’s=Foot Jelly Put two quarts of the prepared stock of calf’s feet into a stew- pan with half a pound of sugar, the rind and juice of three lemons; whip four whites of eggs and shells together, with a little water; add this to the stock, and whisk the whole together over the fire until it is just upon boiling; withdraw the pan from the stove, and leave by the side of the fire to continue gently simmering for about ten minutes longer, covered with the lid. The jelly may then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and when it has run through perfectly bright, keep in a cool place until wanted. This kind of foundation or stock jelly, prepared without any decided flavour, may be used for making all kinds of jellies: it will then only be necessary to add, to the quantity required to fill a