REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON 205 Turkey a la Florentine Truss a small young turkey as for boiling, cover the breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham; upon this place two to three thin slices of lemon and a small bay-leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper, and place the bird, breast upwards, in a stew-pan large and deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Add one ounce of butter, a pint of well-seasoned stock, and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place it in a hot oven, and cook the bird till tender, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. Baste the bird frequently. AVhen done, take up the turkey, remove the paper, and strain the liquor into another pan ; add half a pint of Tomato sauce, boil up and skim, then put the turkey into the sauce, reheat it, and serve whole, handing round the sauce separately. Roast Turkey a la Financiere The turkey may be stuffed either with veal-stuffing or force-meat of fowl; it should be roasted in the usual manner, and when done, dished up and garnished with a rich Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44); at each end place a larded sweetbread; glaze the turkey, and send to table. Boiled Turkey with Celery Sauce Draw and singe a fine young hen turkey, stuff it with veal- stuffing, and truss it for boiling; wrap some buttered paper round it, and place it in an oval braising-pan with carrot, onion, a stick of celery, and a bouquet garni; add as much white stock as will suffice to cover the turkey, then set it on the fire to boil for about one and a half hours; it should after that be removed to the side, to continue gently boiling till done; then take it up out of the braise, remove all the string, etc., and drain ; dish up, pour over a well-made puree of celery (see p. 27), place round it some stewed heads of celery, and send to table. Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce The turkey should be boiled as directed in the last recipe ; when done, dish up, and, previous to sending it to table, pour over some well-made Oyster sauce, and serve. Capon Stuffed with Truffles a la Perigord This should be prepared according to the directions given for dressing a turkey after the same fashion (see p. 204). Capon a la Godard Draw and singe a capon, and truss for boiling. Rub over with lemon, and wrap in a sheet of buttered paper (to keep it white), and place in a stew-pan with some white stock to braise; for which purpose it must be first put on the fire, and after it has boiled, placed by the side to continue gently simmering for