3S3 SANDWICHES salad oil, one of French vinegar, pepper and a little salt; mix the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with ; then place some small fillets of anchovies (previously prepared) over the sandwiches, at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of fillets across these at a similar distance. Dish the sandwiches up in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Salmon Sandwiches Cut some thin slices of white or brown bread and butter them ; place a thin layer of boiled cold salmon on the buttered side of the bread. Spread over with a little stiff Tartare sauce, also a layer of finely shredded lettuce, or thin slices of cucumber. Cover with a second slice of bread, and press. Cut into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Note.—Potted salmon, or salmon paste, may be used in place of cold salmon, but the latter makes by far a more tasty sandwich. Chasseur Sandwiches Cut some slices of white bread, about a quarter of an inch in thickness; toast them lightly on both sides, 'split' open and butter them; lay between them some very thin slices of roast game; spread a little Tartare sauce, with which a little French mustard has been mixed, over the meat; press them together. Pack them in waterproof butter paper so as to keep them moist; wash and drain a little endive and small cress, wrap up in butter paper, and pack it with the sandwiches. Note.—Almost any kind of meat can be made up into sandwiches in this style. Swedish Sandwiches Chop finely one gherkin, six stoned olives, and one teaspoonful of capers, and mix with half a gill of stiff Mayonnaise sauce. Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the number of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mixture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals, or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. Egg Sandwiches Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes; when cold, remove the shells and pound the yolk and white together in a mortar, with an ounce of fresh butter; when quite smooth add salt, pepper, and a little cayenne to taste. Spread the mixture thus on thinly cut bread and butter, press well, trim them, cut them into neat pieces, and serve on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Note.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs introduced between the slices of bread and butter also make nice egg sandwiches.