THE MODERN COOK 324 becomes a smooth, compact paste, and then work in with it one whole egg, two yolks, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Shape this composition into quenelles with two tablespoons in the usual manner, and poach them in hot water. Pheasants with Cabbages These must be trussed as for boiling, and placed in a rather large oval stew-pan with one or two white-heart or Savoy cabbages previously cut into halves, the cores taken out, and blanched or parboiled: afterwards the two halves of each cabbage, previously seasoned with mignonette pepper and salt, must be tied up with string; add two carrots, one small head of celery, two onions each stuck with two cloves, half a pound of streaky bacon (which must also be parboiled like the cabbages), a quarter of a pound of German sausage, and a bouquet garni; moisten with good stock in sufficient quantity to cover the pheasants, cover with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the stew-pan, and then set the whole on a moderate fire to stew very gently for about one and a half hours. Just before sending to table take out the pheasants, drain them, remove the strings, and dish up with an ornamental croustade of fried bread in the centre; then put the bacon and German sausage upon a plate, and after having drained the cabbages in a colander, roll them in a clean cloth in the form of a rolling-pin ; cut this into two-inch lengths and place them round the pheasants, trim the bacon, cut it into strips and lay on the top of the circle of the pieces of cabbages in alternate layers with slices of the sausage ; pour an Espagnole sauce over the whole, glaze the pheasants, and serve. Pheasants a la Flamande Truss and braise one or more pheasants in common stock garnished with a carrot, onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; when done, dish up side by side, garnished with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes and nicely glazed, and some dressed Brussels sprouts and glazed onions; pour an Espagnole sauce round, glaze the pheasants, and serve. Pheasant a I’Allemande See Chicken h. 1’Allemande (p. 288). Pheasants a la Regence Truss one or more plump pheasants as for roasting, lard them closely, and about an hour before dinner-time roast them for about forty minutes, taking particular care to baste them frequently, and glaze them well just before taking them from the fire. When done, dish up, garnish with groups of white cocks’-combs, button-mush- rooms, and truffles; sauce the remove neatly round with some Allemande sauce so as not to touch the pheasants, glaze the larding, and serve.