THE MODERN COOK 260 Veal Cutlets a la Perigord Trim four or five cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, then dip them in some whipped white of eggs, and afterwards in some black truffles chopped very finely; flatten the mixture with the blade of a knife, and place the cutlets in clarified butter in a stew-pan in circular order. Twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets on both sides until done through—taking care that the chopped truffles do not burn; when done, drain on a piece of paper, glaze, and dish up, fill the centre with slices of red tongue and truffles; pour some Perigueux sauce round, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Zingara Trim five or six cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. In another stew-pan, prepare a similar number of thin oval slices of raw ham. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets and the ham, glaze both, and dish up—alternately placing a cutlet and a piece of ham; fill the centre with shredded mushrooms and truffles, pour some thin Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan the cutlets have been fried in, to this add a little cayenne and lemon juice; simmer these together on the fire, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Duchesse Prepare these in the same way as the cutlets a la Dreux; and when they have been trimmed, mask all over with a coating of Atelets sauce and bread-crumb them as for a la Villeroi. Fry the cutlets a bright-yellow colour in clarified butter, dish up, and fill the centre with circular slices of red tongue and button-mushrooms tossed in a little thick Allemande sauce (see p. 3); pour some Tomato sauce round the entree, and serve. Veal Cutlets in Papillotes Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little clarified butter; when nearly done, add a table- spoonful of mushrooms, a little parsley, and three shalots, the whole chopped fine; fry these together over the fire for five minutes, and then add half a pint of Veloute, or any other white sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon juice, and a small piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a gentle fire for a few minutes, and finish in the same way as directed for mutton cutlets k la Maintenon (see p. 245). Blanquette of Veal with Mushrooms Take two pounds of cushion or fillets of veal which must first be roasted, and when cold, cut into round thin pieces about an inch in diameter; to these add some button-mushrooms also cut into slices, and about half a pint of Allemande sauce. Just before sending it to table, warm the blanquette, and dish up with a border of croquettes of veal, of rice, or potatoes. This dish may be varied by substituting slices of truffles, cucumbers, or red tongue for the mushrooms.