314 THE MODERN COOK then place a fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the croutons, and then place the last row of fillets; fill the centre with the livers, etc., pour the Supreme sauce over, and serve. Quails a la Parisienne Prepare the fillets and the crofitons as before directed, and finish and dish up in the same way; fill the centre of the entrfie with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce over, and serve. Escallops of Quails with Truffles Fillet four to six quails; trim each fillet into two escallops, and place the whole of these in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. Use the carcases to make some extract or essence, which, when done, must be clarified, boiled down to half-glaze, and incorporated with three-quarters of a pint of finished Espagnole sauce, and put into a small bain-marie. Simmer the escallops over a moderate fire, and as soon as they are done, pour off all the fat, and add half the sauce with two good-sized truffles cut into slices; toss over the fire for two minutes without allowing them to boil; pile up in the centre of the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with a border of potato croquettes or fleurons, and serve. Escallops of Quails with Cucumbers Prepare four to six quails in the same manner as before. When about to send to table simmer them over the fire, and, when done, pour off the fat, add some slices of cucumbers (see p. 33), and some of the essence made from the carcases boiled down to a glaze; toss over the fire for two minutes, and pile up in the centre of the dish; garnish with a border of croquettes made with the legs, and serve. Larks a la Minute Cut off the legs of eight to ten larks and pick out the gizzards with the point of a small knife; then place the larks in a deep sautd-pan previously spread with butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry over a brisk fire until they have' browned and are nearly done; all the fat must be poured off, and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce, four ounces of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, and the juice of half a lemon should then be added ; toss over the fire until the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with fried croutons of bread round them, pour the mushrooms and sauce over, and serve. Larks a la Chipolata Prepare and fry twelve larks as before, and, when done, pour off the fat and add some Chipolata ragofit (see p. 44); toss this over the fire for five minutes, then dish up six of the larks upon as many small oval croutons, place six more crofitons on these, and put the remaining larks upon them; fill the centre with the ragout, pour the sauce over, and serve.