THE MODERN COOK 406 vanilla essence with one ounce of sugar, sift it, and then put this and the eight ounces of castor sugar into a small sugar-boiler, together with a teaspoonful of prepared extract of cochineal or carmine: stir over the fire until the sugar is entirely melted, and as soon as it begins to purl on the surface, immediately add the pistachios, and gently mix the whole together, taking care not to break the pistachios. The nougat must now be spread out in the form of a square on an oiled baking-sheet or slab; some roughly- broken granite sugar should be sprinkled over the surface, and before it becomes cold, the square must be divided into two bands, and each of these cut into about a dozen small oblong nougats. When about to send to table pile them up in close circular rows, and serve. Small Nougats a la Chantilly Ingredients: 6 oz. ripe filberts and 12 oz. castor sugar. Blanch the nuts, remove the skin, then split each kernel in four lengthwise, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven; meanwhile stir the sugar in the boiler over the fire in the usual manner, and as soon as it is ready, mix in the nuts; have half a dozen small dariole moulds ready, oiled inside, put some of the nougat into each of the moulds, and use a small stick, or the handle of a wooden spoon, to work the nougat up the sides, or into the flutes of the moulds; pare away all that may rise above the edge of the moulds, and then turn them out on to a baking-sheet. When about to send these nougats to table, each should be filled with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or maraschino, and a few strawberries (when in season) placed on the top; dish up neatly in a pyramidal form. Genoese Cakes Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 6 oz. sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful brandy, and a little salt. Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt well together in a basin; add the butter (melted), and when this is thoroughly incor- porated with the batter, pour it into a well-buttered baking-sheet or flat cake tin, to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When the Genoese paste is done, it should be turned out upon a sheet of paper, and cut or stamped out, either in circular, oblong, oval, angular, leaf-like, or any other fancy shapes. These may then be decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for meringues (see p. 410) or with icing prepared as directed for plum or wedding cake (see p. 402), and ornamented with pistachio kernels, currants, etc. Those cut in the form of leaves, rings, oblongs, etc., may be ornamented by forming a design composed of leaves and pearls (using for that purpose some meringue paste in a paper cornet, or small forcing-pipe); when the Genoese cakes are ornamented in this manner, dredge some fine sugar over them, and dry in a cool oven ; then finish decorating them by placing some neat stripes or dots of any kind of preserve, such as red-currant jelly, apple jelly, apricot jam,