THE MODERN COOK 328 When about to send to table, warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in the usual order, mask it with the ragout and sauce, garnish with glazed croutons, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Perigord Prepare the partridges as before; chop the trimmings and use them to make a sauce, as directed on p. 327. Cut out eight small heart-shaped croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, make an incision round the inside of the edges, fry them in butter, empty them, and then fill the cavities with some puree of truffles (see p. 30); warm the salmi with a little of the sauce, and dish up so as to form a well in the centre; place four of the crohtons round the top of the entree, fill the centre with small quenelles of partridges, pour the sauce over the salmi, garnish the base with the remainder of the croutons, and serve. Salmi of Partridges with Mushrooms Roast and trim the partridges as usual, use the trimmings to make a sauce (see p. 327), then add it to the partridges with some button- mushrooms ; warm the salmi, dish up in a pyramidal form, pour the sauce over, garnish with croutons, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Lucullus Fillet a brace of young partridges, trim the large fillets and place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little salt, and place a round of buttered paper upon them; remove the sinew from the smaller fillets without tearing them, trim neatly, and place in a small saute-pan spread with butter; dip a soft paste-brush in some beaten white of egg, and pass over their surface, and then decorate them with black truffles. After this is completed, mask them with clarified butter, and place over them some very thin layers of fat bacon. Use the carcases to make some fumet, which must be boiled down to half-glaze, and part of it incorporated with one pint of white puree of mushrooms 1 (see p. 30); place the fillets on the fire for five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, without browning, drain off the butter, add a little of the pur£e of mushrooms, toss the fillets over the fire for a minute, and dish up with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread [between each ; sauce the fillets with the puree, place the decorated fillets (previously simmered in the oven for about five minutes) across the croutons, pour the sauce or puree round the base, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Prince Albert Fillet two young partridges, leaving the pinion-bones on the fillets; trim neatly, lard closely, and place in a saut<£-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some white wine mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of paper upon them, and braise the fillets over a moderate fire or in the oven, and when nearly done glaze them nicely. Dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a 1 This purde should be of the consistency and colour of Supreme sauce.