PUDDINGS IN GENERAL 45i the mould with a layer of raspberry jam between each layer of rusks; fill up the mould with the custard, and steam the pudding in the usual manner. When done, dish up with a German custard sauce. Apple Pudding Peel half-a-dozen large apples, remove the cores and cut up in slices; put ' the apples into a deep stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the rind of one lemon, three ounces of castor sugar, and a gill of apricot jam ; toss the whole over a slow fire until' the apples begin to dissolve, and then set aside to cool. Next line a pudding basin with some light suet crust, fill this with the prepared apples, place a covering of paste on the top, fasten down securely, and steam for about two hours. When the pudding is done, dish up, pour some warm apricot jam over, and serve. Biscuit Pudding a la Prince Albert Ingredients : 6 oz. crumbled Savoy cake, 1 gill cream, the yolks of 4 eggs and the whipped whites of 2, the rind of 1 lemon rubbed on sugar, 4 oz. castor sugar, and a little salt. Pour the cream (boiling) on to the crumbled Savoy cake and let it steep for a few minutes; then add the sugar, eggs, lemon sugar, and salt; mix the whole lightly together, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and steam the pudding for about an hour and a quarter. When done, dish up with a puree of currants and rasp- berries, or else serve a custard sauce over the pudding. Plum Pudding Ingredients : J lb. raisins, ^ lb. bread-crumbs, J lb. currants, 2 oz. chopped almonds, ^ lb. candied orange, lemon, and citron, f lb. chopped beef suet, 4 oz. flour, ^ lb. moist sugar, 4 eggs, about 1 gill milk, the grated rind of 2 lemons, J oz. nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves (in powder), 1 glass brandy, and a very little salt. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly together in a large basin several hours before the pudding is to be boiled; pour them into a mould spread with butter, and tie up in a cloth. Boil for four hours and a half; and, when done, dish up with a German custard sauce poured over it. Tapioca Cream Pudding Ingredients : 2 oz. tapioca, 1 pt. milk, 2 oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs and 2 whipped whites, the grated rind of 1 lemon, ^ oz. butter, and a little salt. Put the tapioca, sugar, butter, salt, grated lemon, and the milk into a stew-pan, stir this over the fire until it boils; then cover the stew-pan with its lid, and set it on the side of the fire, to continue gently simmering for a quarter of an hour. Then withdraw from the fire, and add the yolks and whites of eggs, pour the preparation into a buttered mould or pudding basin ; steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish up with either a plain Arrow- root or Custard sauce over. Sago or semolina may be prepared in the same manner.