118 THE MODERN COOK Salmon a 1’Anglaise Dish up the salmon and send it to table with either of the following sauces : Lobster, Shrimp, Crayfish, Dutch, Parsley and Butter, or Mussel sauce. Salmon a l’Ecossaise To dress salmon or trout in perfection in this style it is quite necessary that the fish be dressed a short time after being caught: sportsmen well know that it is only while this kind of fish is yet almost alive that it retains that white creamy substance which appears between the flakes of the boiled fish, and which makes it so truly delicious : this is little known to the London epicure. If it be practicable to procure what is termed a live salmon, take out the gills, draw it, wash the fish, and crimp it on either side by making deep incisions with a sharp knife, and then throw it into a large vessel containing clean, very cold water, to remain there about two hours. In crimping any sort of fish, the colder the water is the better; the coldness of the water, petrifying the fish to a certain degree, gives it the firmness so much desired. As soon as the salmon or trout is crimped, put it into the fish-kettle containing boiling water in sufficient quantity to cover the fish, at the same time throwing in a good handful of salt; let the fish boil on the side of the fire, remembering that crimped fish require considerably less time in boiling than when plain. As soon as the fish is done, take it out of the water immediately: leaving fish of any kind in the water after it is done detracts from its flavour and firmness. When the salmon is dished up, send it to table with Lobster sauce, parsley and butter, or the following sauce :—Put three or four ounces of fresh butter into a clean stew-pan, add a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of mignonette pepper, some salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; set the stew-pan in a bath of hot water, and keep stirring the butter quickly as it melts with a wooden spoon; when the whole of the butter is melted, work the sauce well together, and send to table. With crimped salmon or trout this kind of melted butter will be found to surpass all other sauces. Salmon a la Tartare Steep some slices of salmon in a dish with a little salad oil, pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley; about half an hour before dinner, place the slices of salmon on a clear gridiron rubbed over with bacon fat, and broil them on a clear fire; when done on one side turn them on the other; both sides should be of a fine light brown; dish them up, and send to table with either some Tartare (see p. 23), Cambridge (see p. 22), or Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) in a boat. Matelote of Salmon Boil and take the skin off one or more slices of salmon, mask them with some glaze mixed with pounded lobster coral; place them on a dish, and garnish with a rich Matelote ragoftt (see p. 44).