THE MODERN COOK 204 REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON Roast Turkey a la Perigord Pick, draw, and singe a fine young hen turkey. Previous to this operation some fresh truffles should be prepared as follows, to be used in stuffing the turkey :— Have about half a pound of truffles thoroughly washed; peel and cut them into pieces the size of a small walnut; place these in a stew-pan, and after pounding the parings with about half a pound of fat ham or bacon, add them to the truffles. Season with mignonette pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and chopped bay-leaf and thyme, and one clove of garlic; a few fat livers of poultry may also be added, after being pounded separately. Set the stew-pan containing these ingredients on a slow fire, and allow them to simmer very gently for about half an hour, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. When nearly cold, proceed to stuff the turkey with the mixture. The turkey must then be put away in the larder till the next day (time permitting), when it should be trussed in the usual manner for roasting. Cover the breast with thin layers of fat bacon, and wrap round the entire turkey with thick paper well buttered, and securely fastened with string. Roast about one and a half hours. Dish up and glaze it, pour under it a rich Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), and serve. Roast Turkey a la Chipolata Draw and prepare a turkey for stuffing, fill it with well-seasoned veal-stuffing and chestnuts; or, if preferred, pork-sausage meat may be substituted for the veal-stuffing. The chestnuts are prepared as follows:—Take about three dozen chestnuts, and after splitting them across the outer skin, fry them with a little butter in a frying-pan until they shed their husks easily; when peeled, boil them in a little good consomme till tender; half should then be reserved to be put in the sauce, and the remainder used as directed above.” The turkey being thus prepared, truss and cover it with thin layers of fat bacon as directed in the foregoing recipe, and having roasted it until it is a nice brown colour, dish up and garnish with alternate groups of the ingredients composing the Chipolata ragoftt (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the remove, and send to table. Roast Turkey a 1’Anglaise Stuff a turkey with some well-seasoned veal-stuffing, let it be trussed in the usual manner, and, previous to roasting, cover it with thin layers of fat bacon, which should be secured on with buttered paper tied round the turkey so as entirely to envelop it; then roast it, and when done, dish up, garnish with small pork sausages, nicely fried; pour a rich Poivrade sauce round it, glaze the turkey, and send to table.