354 THE MODERN COOK Qriddled Potatoes Cook one and a half pounds of kidney potatoes in their skins; when cold, peel and cut them into long slices, not too thin. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in an omelet-pan; when hot, put in the potatoes, season with salt and paprika or krona pepper, and fry them over a fairly quick fire for five minutes, then place them in a hot oven for another ten minutes. Dish up, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped chives. Baked Potatoes in Cream Parboil one and a half pounds of washed and peeled kidney potatoes, and cut into halves or quarters. Drain them, and put them in a stew-pan with half a gill of cream and one gill of Bechamel sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and cook gently for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Butter a baking- dish and strew it with fried bread-crumbs; fill it with the prepared potatoes, sprinkle over with some bits of grated cheese, and place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top. Brown the surface of the dish in a sharp oven for about ten minutes, and serve. Potato Chips Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, cut them crossways into thin slices, wash them again, and drain on a cloth. Have ready suffi- cient clean fat in a deep frying-pan, and let it get thoroughly hot; a bluish smoke arising from it will indicate the proper heat when the potatoes must be plunged in. Use a frying-basket for this purpose. Shake the basket for a few minutes and let the potatoes acquire a golden colour; then take them up, allow the fat to drain off in shaking the basket lightly, season with fine salt, and put them on a paper to drain them thoroughly. Dish up and serve hot. Parisian Potatoes Wash and peel eight to nine potatoes. With a round vegetable scoop, scoop out little balls like marbles. Cook them in boiling, salted water for ten minutes. Drain them on a sieve, put them in a saute-pan with one ounce of butter, and bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven. Souffle or Puffed Potatoes To make souffle or puffed potatoes use oval-shaped Dutch potatoes, or, at any rate, potatoes that are neither too mealy nor too watery or waxy. Peel them as thinly as possible, and cut them lengthwise into slices about one-sixth of an inch thick. Plunge them into clarified fat (deep fat) heated to 210° Fahrenheit, and let them cook till tender but not brown. Take them up, and have ready another pan of fat heated to 250°, into which plunge the potatoes and fry them a second time. Shake the pan continually whilst the potatoes are frying; they ought then to acquire a puffed appearance and become a nice golden colour. Drain carefully, season with fine salt, and dish up on a folded napkin.