FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS 89 three pints of white consommd. Allow the stock thus prepared to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour3 then strain it off through a sieve into a stew-pan, and thicken it with two ounces of white roux, and as soon as it has boiled, set it by the side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way. When the body of the soup thus far prepared has been rubbed through a tammy, finish it for table just before dinner-time by mixing in with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a little lemon juice3 then pour the soup into the tureen containing the oysters reserved for that purpose with the dozen quenelles of whiting, and serve. Soup of Fillets of Soles a la Bagration Fillet a large sole, and place the fillets lengthwise in a sautd-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with a little pepper and salt and some lemon juice, cover them with a round of buttered paper and set them in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for ten minutes, when they will be done. Take the fillets up, and set them in press between two dishes, and when cold, with a round tin cutter, stamp them out into small scallops and place them in a small stew-pan in the larder until wanted. Make some quenelle of the fillets of half the sole, colour it with some lobster coral, and mould it with two teaspoons into one dozen very small quenelles, which, when poached, place with the scallops of soles3 to these add about half - a - dozen blanched mussels. Mix with these ingredients about three pints of the same kind of soup sauce as used for the preceding soup, and when ready to serve place the scallops of soles, the mussels, and the red quenelles (first warmed in a small quantity of the soup) into the tureen, and then mix in with the soup a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pour it on to the scallops, etc., and serve. Eel Soup a la Richmond Fillet one large eel, and cut the fillets into small scallops 3 place these, in circular order, in a large saute-pan containing about one ounce of clarified butter3 season with cayenne pepper, salt, lemon juice, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley 3 set the covered saute- pan on the fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then add a glass of sherry, after which let it boil sharply for a few minutes longer. Put the scallops of eels thus prepared into the soup-tureen, with eighteen dozen tails of crayfish, and instantly pour over these a soup sauce, previously prepared according to the following directions:— Cut into shreds or dice one carrot, a stick of celery, parsley, one shalot, and a handful of mushrooms. Put these into a stew-pan with a sprig of thyme, a small bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, a few pepper- corns, and one blade of mace. Fry these ingredients with two ounces of butter until they begin to be of a light-brown colour 3 then throw in the bones and trimmings of the eel, eighteen bruised crayfish, and a glass of Chablis wine. Allow this to boil briskly on the fire for five minutes, then add three pints of veal stock, and after it has boiled gently by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour, strain the