CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 299 have been removed: when properly done, this gives them a neat and plump appearance. They must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and about a dessertspoonful of force- meat, in which has been mixed some fine herbs, placed in the centre ; a large needle and some coarse thread should be used to draw the skinny part of the legs up into a purse, and must then be fastened to secure them in shape. The galantines must next be larded closely on the plump part of the thigh, in the same manner as a sweetbread, and then placed in a deep stew-pan, the bottom of which should be strewn with sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a bouquet garni, and covered with some thin layers of fat bacon, upon which the galantines are to be placed. Moisten with sufficient consomme or stock to reach nearly up to the larding; place a buttered paper on the top, cover, and leave to braise gently for about half an hour over a moderate fire or else in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, remove the lid and the paper, and put them in the oven for a couple of minutes to dry the larding; then glaze nicely, drain, and dish up in a close circle similarly to cutlets; fill the centre with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Note.—Galantines prepared in this manner may also be served with endive, sorrel, puree of green peas or asparagus, stewed peas, or h la Macedoine. Galantine of Chicken Legs a la Jardiniere In. this case the legs of two or more fowls should be entirely laid open with the knife and all the bones removed; they must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of force-meat, mixed with fine herbs, placed in the centre of each ; then sew them up in an oblong or oval form, and place them in a stew-pan on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, and braise as directed in the previous recipe. When the galantines are done, put them in press between two dishes until cold; they should then be trimmed and placed in a stew-pan with a little consomme, and covered with a buttered paper. When about to send to table, put the galantines in the oven to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then glaze and dish up in a close circle with a braised lettuce, nicely trimmed (see p. 39), placed in between each ; fill the centre with a Jardiniere (see p. 167), pour some half-glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Minced and Grilled Fowl Cut off the legs of a roast fowl, trim and score them over on both sides, and season them with pepper and salt; then cut the meat of the breast, etc., into fine shreds, and put this into a small stew-pan with a little Bechamel sauce. When about to send to table, broil the legs of fowl over a clear fire, glaze them, and having previously warmed the mince, pour it out into the centre of the dish, place the legs upon it, and serve.