DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL M3 Lamprey a la Foley Take a fine lamprey, clean it thoroughly and form into a circular shape, and fasten with string; then stew in a gill of claret or stock with the addition of vegetables, etc., as in the previous recipe. As soon as the lamprey is done, reduce two-thirds of the liquor with an equal proportion of brown sauce, and half a gill of essence of mush- rooms ; when sufficiently reduced, incorporate with this some crayfish butter and a little essence of anchovies, a very little nutmeg, lemon juice, and cayenne, and pass the sauce through a tammy or sieve into a bain-marie containing eighteen crayfish tails and as many button-mushrooms—previously prepared for the purpose. Then drain the lampreys, and afterwards place them, one resting on the other, in the dish; sauce them over with the prepared ragoftt; garnish round with a border of glazed crofitons. Lamprey a la Beauchamp Truss a lamprey as directed in the previous recipe, stew in old Madeira or a little cider, and the requisite vegetables, etc.; add two- thirds of the liquor to an equal quantity of good brown sauce, work the whole by boiling on the fire, skim and reduce it to its proper con- sistency, add a small part of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing some small round truffles and tails of crayfish. Dish up the lamprey as in the last recipe, and sauce over with the prepared ragofit; garnish round with some glazed pastry fleurons, and send to table. Lamperns are treated in the same manner as lampreys, being ' similar in flavour. Fried Smelts When preparing smelts1 for frying, take the gills out carefully, trim the fins, wipe the fish with a clean cloth, dip them first in flour, and afterwards in beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs; fry them in some heated fat to a golden colour; drain and dish them up on a fancy paper, and garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, Crayfish, or Lobster sauce. Smelts may also be dressed with advantage in Normande matelote, in cases with fine herbs, a l’ltalienne, k la Royale, etc., by observing the directions given for dressing mullets or whitings in a similar manner. Spitchcocked Eels As eels,2 when brought into the kitchen, are frequently alive, it is first necessary to kill them; this, from their tenacity of life, is found by many not easy to accomplish ; it is, however, merely necessary to 1 This kind of fish, which is in general estimation, is in season from August till March, when after depositing their spawn in fresh water, they return to the sea. 2 There are four distinct varieties of eels, the snig, the broad-nosed, the grig, and the sharp-nosed ; the latter is the kind generally known. The London markets are supplied principally from Holland. Thames eels are, however, in high repute ; being caught in a running stream, their skin is brighter and more silvery; they are pre- ferable, too, from their greater sweetness, to the Dutch cels.