54 THE MODERN COOK stick of celery—the whole to be cut into small pieces; fill up the stew-pan with two quarts of spring water, and put in on the stove to boil, taking care to remove the scum as it rises to the surface. After the broth has thrown off the albumen of the meat in the shape of scum, add to it two ounces of Ceylon moss or Irish (Carrageen) moss, taking special care to well mix the preparation with the broth. Keep the pan gently boiling by the side of the stove-fire for one hour and a quarter; then pass the broth through a napkin into an earthen vessel, and put it by for use. This broth is nutritious and cooling, and its use in cases of sore throat will often prove beneficial. LIGHT SOUPS AND PANADAS FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS Nutritious Liquid Custard of Chicken Prepare the chicken broth as directed for making chicken custards ; take half a pint of this and mix it thoroughly with two yolks of new- laid eggs; stir it over the stove-fire, or, if practicable, over the heat of steam, until the mixture becomes somewhat thickened, assuming a soft creamy appearance; pour it into a broth basin or caudle-cup, and let it be instantly served. Nutritious Liquid Custard of Game This sort of custard is prepared similarly to the foregoing, sub- stituting pheasant or partridge for poultry. Ceylon Moss Gelatinous Chicken Broth Cut a fowl into four parts, take out the lungs, and wash it thoroughly ; place it in a stew-pan with two ounces of prepared Ceylon moss, or Iceland or Irish moss, adding three pints of water and a little salt; having boiled the broth for three-quarters of an hour by the side of a stove-fire, pass it through a napkin, and serve it in a caudle- cup to the invalid. Chicken Panada Take all the white parts of the breast of a small chicken and pound them with two or three ounces of the crumb of a French roll soaked in broth; dilute these 'with a little chicken broth to the con- sistency of a soft batter or creamy substance; pass it through a tammy or fine sieve as in preparing any other puree. Previous to serving this panada it should be moderately warmed and put into custard-cups. In the composition of every sort of dietetic prepara- tion for the use of infants and invalids it is strictly necessary to avoid the use of herbs, vegetables, and spices: even salt should be used sparingly.