185 REMOVES OF LAMB mutton has been boiled, remove all fat and reduce it to half-glaze, add part of it to the potatoes, and with these garnish the mutton round neatly, pour the essence under, and send to table. Braised Neck of Mutton a la Jardiniere Trim a small neck of mutton and prepare it for braising with carrot, onion, celery, sprigs of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a quart of stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper and the lid. Put to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two hours; when done, glaze and dish up, so as to give an appearance of chevaux-de-frise \ garnish with a well-prepared Jardiniere of every variety of small vegetables in season, sauce with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. Neck of Mutton Larded and Braised a l’Allemande Trim, lard, and prepare for braising a small neck of mutton as directed in the preceding recipe; and about two hours before dinner- time, set on the fire to braise in the usual manner. When done, glaze and dish up, surround with alternate groups of quenelles of potatoes and prunes stewed in red wine; pour some German sweet sauce (see p. 15) under, and send to table. Neck of Mutton Larded a la Soubise Trim and lard a small neck of mutton; prepare for braising with carrot, onion, celery, a small bunch of herbs, three cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a pint of good stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper as well as the lid of the brasier. Set over a moderate fire to braise gently for about an hour and a half; when done, glaze and dish up (having previously poured in the dish a rich purde of onions a la Soubise, see p. 29), garnish with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table. Note.—Larding may be dispensed with, when considered objec- tionable, without deteriorating much from the excellence of any of the foregoing methods of dressing necks of mutton. It is, however, generally regarded as a proper characteristic of these dishes. In addition to the above methods for garnishing braised necks of mutton, they may also be finished by placing round them a garnish of stewed peas, asparagus, glazed young carrots and turnips, sauerkraut, or tomatoes. Serve with Piquante sauce. REMOVES OF LAMB Baron of Lamb a la Montmorency Procure the hind-quarters of a fine fat lamb, take off the trans- parent skin which covers the fat of the saddle, and with the point of a small knife make a slight incision, in an oval form, all over the surface of the upper part of the legs; and afterwards with a sharp, thin-bladed knife pare off the skin so as to leave the place bare; this will give to the surface of each leg the appearance of