357 SALADS with a dozen olives cut into fancy shapes, some cooked beetroot, cut or stamped out in fancy shapes, and some curled celery; then add sufficient Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) to moisten the whole, and use this preparation to fill a vegetable border as directed in the two previous recipes. Haricot Bean Salad The white haricot is one of the most nourishing of vegetables, but at the same time it is difficult to digest. When it is dressed as a salad, however, the oil renders it more digestible. Use the same seasoning as for an ordinary salad, adding, if desired, some chopped chives. After cooking the haricots, they should be steeped in cold water for a few hours. Mixed Haricot Salad A mixture of equal quantities of French beans and white haricots is one of the best of salads. Boil separately, and when they have been drained and cooled, mix together and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chervil, finely chopped parsley, and chives. French Bean Salad Choose very green and young French beans. Cut away the ends, and boil the beans in salt water. The water should boil before the beans are put in if they are to be served quite green. Put them into a salad bowl, and season like an ordinary salad. Just before serving, sprinkle over a little chopped chervil and parsley. Chantecler Salad Peel and slice thinly three not overripe bananas and one small sour apple 3 slice also one small cooked and pickled beetroot. Wash and drain the hearts of three young French lettuces, and divide the leaves into small portions (they must not be cut with a knife). Mix these ingredients carefully with the strained juice of a lemon, four tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs 3 season with salt and pepper. Dish up in a salad bowl, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped tarragon leaves. Toulouse Salad Wash and trim two firm cabbage lettuces, divide them into small leaves, drain well, and mix with half a pint of cooked asparagus-points (sprue), one peeled and sliced or shredded tomato, and one sliced truffle. Season each separately, and dress by bouquets in a salad bowl. Put a little Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce in the centre of the bowl, and serve. Derby Salad This salad consists chiefly of cooked vegetables, the same as for Russian salad. Take equal quantities of cooked green peas, flageolets, French beans, carrots and turnips cut into dice, and mix these with one-sixth of piccalilli cut similarly. Decorate a border-