VEGETABLE AND FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES 227 must be placed in a stew-pan with sufficient water to reach up only one-third the height of the mould; cover, and put the stew-pan near or upon a slow fire to keep the water gently simmering, so that the steam may warm the chartreuse through. When about to serve, turn the chartreuse upside down in the dish, and draw the mould off with care, remove the paper, and garnish the base with a close border of the bacon and saveloy cut into slices; pour some brown sauce round the entree, glaze the chartreuse carefully, so as not to disturb the order of the vegetables, and serve. These directions will serve for the preparation of several kinds of chartreuses; pheasant, duckling, pigeon, etc., being substituted for partridge. Chartreuse of Vegetables with Quails The preparation of this kind of chartreuse is very similar to the foregoing, cabbage lettuce being substituted for savoy; the following are the only alterations required: The mould must be either oval or round, and should be lined with buttered paper, and ornamented with carrots and turnips prepared according to the directions given in the first part of the previous recipe, and afterwards cut out, either with a small knife or proper shaped tin-cutters, to suit the design intended to be represented. The cavity left in the mould, after it has been decorated with the vegetables, must be filled up with the braised cabbage lettuce. When about to send to table, turn the chartreuse out on its dish, place the quails (prepared as for a paffi-chaud (see p. 220) and kept warm) upon the upper part of the chartreuse, with their breasts outward; fill the centre of the entree with a Jardiniere of vegetables (see p. 167), garnish the base with slices of the streaky bacon and saveloy, pour some thin bright Espagnole sauce round the entree, glaze the chartreuse lightly, and serve. Chartreuse of Vegetables with Veal In this case the chartreuse should be prepared in the same manner as described in the foregoing recipe; and when turned out on its dish preparatory to serving it, the top of the border must be garnished with braised tendons of veal (see p. 257), placed in the same way as cutlets are dished up; the well or centre of the entree must be filled with stewed peas, then pour some brown sauce round the base, glaze the chartreuse, and serve. This kind of chartreuse may be garnished with pieces of pheasants, partridges, larks, etc.; and also with blanquettes of fowls, lambs’ sweetbreads, etc. The ornamental part of these entries may be much varied by using asparagus-heads, green peas, French beans, artichoke-bottoms, glazed button-onions, carrots, and turnips cut out in fanciful shapes and forms. A good effect is produced by arranging a decoration in relief on the top of the chartreuse after it has been turned out of the mould on to its dish ; its base may also be garnished with alternate groups of vegetables cut in small fanciful shapes and prepared in the usual manner.