GLOSSARY 5*5 Croquantes. A transparent mixture of boiled sugar and fruit. Croquettes and Rissoles. A preparation of mince with a bread-crumbed coating. These words both signify something crisp. Croustades, Pati^s-Chauds, Tourtes, Timbales, Casseroles. Various ornamental pie-cases, made either of bread, paste, or prepared rice. Croutons. Sippets of bread of various sizes and shapes, fried in clarified butter, and used to garnish salmis, fricassees, dressed vegetables, etc. ; they are also served with certain soups, chiefly with purees. Cuisse. Leg. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. Curry. From the Hindu word “khura” (palatable, eatable), Kari. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish, or fowl ; a sharp-spiced sauce. Dariole. Origin unknown. A kind of small pate, composed of force-meat or inince baked or steamed in small moulds. Demi Deuil (en). White meats larded with truffles; literally, “half- mourning.” Diable is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning; a la diable, devilled. Durcelles or Duxelles is the name given to a mixture of chopped mushrooms, shalots, parsley, etc., used for flavouring sauces, purees, etc. £clair. A French pastry filled with cream. Ecossaise (a l’). Scotch style. Entries. A conventional term for side-dishes, comprising cutlets, fricassees, fricandeaux, fillets, scallops, salmis, boudins, sweetbreads, pates -chauds, chartreuses, etc. Entremets or second-course side-dishes consist of three distinct sorts, namely, dressed vegetables ; scalloped shellfish and dressed eggs and other savouries ; and, lastly, of the infinitely varied class of sweets, consisting of puddings, gateaux, timbales, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, creams, fritters, etc. Escalope. Thin round or oval-shaped fillets of veal called ‘ ‘ collops. ” Obsolete, eascalope. Meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Espagnole. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces, classified as the main “grande sauce,” or “ sauce mere.” Fanchonettes and Florentines. Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce. Various kinds of fine force-meat made of fish, meat, poultry, and game Fecule. A very fine flour of rice or potato used for binding soups or sauces. Filet or Fillet. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, and pork. Also the boned breasts of poultry or game birds; the boned sides of fish are also called fillets. Flans, Darioles, and Mirlitons. Varieties of French cheese-cakes or custard mixtures. Foie-Gras. Fat goose liver. Fondant. Melting. A kind of icing ; French dessert bon-bons. Fondue. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Sv/itzerland. A savoury. Franchise (A la). French style. Applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as well as for those of the most elaborate finish.