THE MODERN COOK via distinguished for simplicity and cleanliness. Roasting and boiling were the chief means of preparation, and there is every reason to believe that in these two modes many of the fine effects which we achieve with our elaborate and extensive range of kitchen appliances were gained in the olden days with far simpler utensils. Be this as it may, there are innumerable examples in old French cookery books, especially of roast and boiled dishes, which would be greatly appreciated even to-day. The discovery of new foods, and the widening of our dietary by an appreciation of food values, together with the invention of scientific means of preparing them properly, has practically revolutionised the old kitchen processes, and certainly made the ancient “ recipe book ” on the whole the most archaic class of compilations in existence. Science, mainly that of chemistry, improvement of fuel, including the introduction of gas and electricity into kitchens, have all contributed to modify and amplify the menu in one direction or another. But the chief change has, of course, been brought about by the march of human intelligence and accompanying modification of taste in matters of food. In all ages, however, there have been ardent workers, often in advance of their time, who have given serious study to the theory and practice of cooking. It is to these, who, selecting and improving upon primitive methods, evolved order out of chaos, that we owe the substantial foundation of our art- science. One generation or another of these workers has handed down to us what may justly be termed certain standard methods and dishes, which, when all is said and done, form the basis of modern practice, and the point of departure of modern progress. We must, therefore, not only know, but learn to appreciate the views of our pre- decessors and their efforts in this branch, and an all- important one it is, of human activity. So while con- temporary cookery manuals prove the best index of an age’s or a nation’s preferences and limitations, it is felt that in translating for the benefit of English readers some of the best and most typical foreign recipes of past times, a real service is being done to what may be styled “ The Com- parative Study of Gastronomy.” q jj g