THE MODERN COOK 364 Foie=Gras as Hors-d’oeuvre Foie-gras or goose-liver, either in the form of pate or sausage, is frequently served as hors-d’oeuvre. A patd or terrine may be served plain after removing the fat on its surface, or scooped out by means of a dessertspoon previously dipped in hot water, and then dressed neatly on a dish and garnished with parsley. Foie-gras sausage must be cut into thin slices, dished up, and similarly garnished. In all cases foie-gras must be served very cold, and should be kept on the ice until required for table. Tartines a la Lucullus Take half a pound of puff paste, give it three consecutive turns, besprinkle the paste each turn with finely grated Parmesan cheese. Roll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick, and cut in two crossways. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy paste with sufficient Anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares or oblong strips, place on a baking-sheet, prick the surface of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately-heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked, put aside to cool. In the meantime pound the following in a mortar: Two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a tablespoonful of Veloute or Bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a fine sieve. Put into a small basin and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine. Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy fillet or Lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of cornichons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. Cornets de Ham a la Gelee Cut as thinly as possible the required number of slices of ham (cooked), then stamp out with a sharp paste-cutter in even-sized rounds; twist each on a cornet tin, or on a wooden pastry roll. Fasten the end by means of a little liquefied meat glaze, stiffened with a small quantity of gelatine. When sufficiently set or fixed gently remove the cornets, or rolled shapes of ham, from the tin or wood. Fill with finely chopped aspic mixed with chopped lean ham and pistachio kernels, glaze over with a little semi-liquid aspic, and dish up on a flat dish round a suitably shaped vegetable macedoine timbale. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve as hors- d’oeuvres. Melon & ITmperiale Procure a fine rock melon (not overripe), cut off the top portion, and scoop out the interior seedy part. Place the melon in a pan surrounded with ice, and put in two or three glasses tawny port wine. Keep the melon thus for about three hours. Just before serving,