236 THE MODERN COOK a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock. Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a dessertspoonful of grated horse-radish to the liquor. Let all reduce well, and strain into a small stew-pan. Remove all fat, and finish the sauce with a pinch of castor sugar and an ounce of fresh butter, worked in bit by bit; keep the sauce warm. Glaze and dish up the fillets, garnish with alternate groups of button-mushrooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and small button-onions (braised). Sauce over carefully and serve hot. Beef = Steak en Casserole Cut a large piece of rump-steak into four or five round flat fillets, beat them a little with a cutlet-bat, trim or pare, and season them with salt and pepper. Fry them slightly on each side in a little butter over a quick fire, and set them aside. Peel and chop finely a moderate-sized onion, fry it in a small stew-pan with half an ounce of butter to a golden colour. Moisten with a glass of Marsala or Madeira wine and two large tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Boil up, and add a tablespoonful of piccalilli or mixed pickles, two ounces of fried bacon cut into dice, cut up small eight to ten small cham- pignons, one small carrot cooked and cut into cubes, one potato cooked and cut into dice. Heat up, and put it in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place the fillets on top. Sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Cover and cook in the oven for five to ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Beef =Steaks with Anchovy Butter These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, but anchovy butter must be substituted for Maitre d’Hotel. French Beef-Steaks These are always cut from the fillet part, and may be served with any of the savoury butters described in this work; they may also be garnished with Indian pickle, water-cress, olives stoned or turned, and with all the varieties of common pickles, or with either of the sauces named for small rib-steaks. Glazed Fillets of Beef Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef into six pieces, flatten and trim these either round or oval, season with pepper and salt, put them in a sautd-pan containing two ounces of clarified butter. Ten minutes before sending them to table, set the saute-pan on a clear fire, and fry the fillets a brown colour; when done on both sides, pour off the fat, add a tablespoonful of glaze and twice as much brown sauce, and the juice of half a lemon; allow the whole to boil for one minute on the fire, dish the fillets with a piece of fat on each, place a few cooked mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce over. Note.—Fillets of beef prepared in this manner may be dressed