VEGETABLES AND SALADS 34i shells, strew over with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice and some oiled butter. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve. Fried Salsify Prepare the salsify as above, and when done, drain, and cut into pieces about three inches long; put these into a basin with two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of French vinegar, some mignonette pepper, and salt; leave to steep in this until within about ten minutes before sending them to table; they must then be drained, dipped in some very light batter, and fried in hot fat; when done, drain on paper, dish up with fried parsley, and serve. Spinach with Butter Pick all the stalks from about three pounds of spinach, wash it in several waters, and drain well; put it into a stew-pan of hot water with a dessertspoonful of salt, and boil until it becomes thoroughly tender and soft to the touch; then drain and press well, plunge again into cold water, and afterwards squeeze all the water from it. It should then be rubbed through a wire-sieve, and placed in a stew-pan with about two ounces of butter, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; stir the spinach over the fire until it becomes quite warm, then add a gill of good sauce and a small piece of glaze. Work the whole together with a wooden spoon until well mixed, then pile the spinach up in the centre of the dish, smooth over the surface and garnish round with croutons, and serve. Spinach Souffles Wash and pick one and a half pounds of spinach leaves. Cook till tender in very little slightly salted water; this usually takes about twenty minutes. When done, drain, plunge it into cold water to cool, then press out all the moisture and rub through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; when hot, add the spinach, season with a pinch of cayenne and salt if needed, and stir over the fire until hot. Separate the yolks from the whites of three eggs ; work in the yolks one at a time. Remove from the fire before it boils, whip up half a gill of cream, and add to the mixture when sufficiently cold. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in lightly with the above. Have ready a dozen small souffle cases, fasten with a band of white paper, buttered, about an inch wide. Pour in the souffle mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Spinach with Poached Eggs Procure the following: 2 lbs. spinach, 1 oz. butter, i oz. flour, x tablespoonful cream, salt and pepper, 3 to 4 poached eggs. Pick off the stalks and brown leaves, and wash the spinach in several waters. Drain it, and put it in a stew-pan with just enough