79 VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS clarified, and also a proportionate quantity of Julienne vegetables— prepared as for the soup bearing that name (see p. 62); and then, over these, pour a quart of puree of green peas nearly boiling, and send to table. Puree of Spring Herbs Take a handful of sorrel, one small cabbage-lettuce, a small handful of chervil, the same proportion of dandelion, and a little balm and burrage. Wash these thoroughly and place them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and set the whole on the fire to simmer, quickly stirring them the whole time ; then add a quart of good consomme of veal or fowl 3 allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for half an hour; and just before sending to table finish the soup by mixing in it gradually a liaison 1 of two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of cream, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Put some duchess’ crusts in the soup-tureen, pour the soup thereon, and serve up. Be careful that the soup is not allowed to boil, as in that case the eggs would curdle and render the soup unsightly, if not un- palatable. Puree of Green Peas a la Victoria Cut the cooked breast of one small chicken into small pieces, put them into the soup-tureen with ten or twelve small quenelles of fowl, and then pour on the whole a quart of pur£e of green peas, nearly boiling and prepared in the usual manner, and send to table. Puree of Green Peas a la Princesse Prepare a steamed custard in the manner following :—Take one gill of cream of rice (see p. 82), mix gradually therewith three yolks of eggs, pass this preparation through a tammy into a plain round mould,—previously buttered for the purpose,—and after having steamed it in the same way as you would any other custard, allow it to get cold, turn it out of the mould, and then cut it into small pillar- like shapes an inch long: put these into the soup-tureen with a gill of consomme to prevent them from being clogged together, pour one and a half pints of boiling pur£e of green peas on them, and send to table. Puree of Carrots a la Stanley Having prepared about two quarts of puree of young carrots, when ready to serve up, pour it boiling into the soup-tureen containing half a pint of young peas boiled green, and eighteen very small quenelles of fowl. Crecy Soup with Whole Rice Wash, blanch, and boil in one pint of consommt*, two ounces of Carolina rice; add this to a quart of Cr£cy or carrot soup, either prepared for the occasion, or reserved from the previous day’s dinner. Mix these together gently, and take care not to break the grains of rice, nor to serve it too thick. 1 From the French liaison, a connection or binding.