469 AUXILIARY RECIPES well together, pour in with the puree, return to the fire, stir until the liaison of egg and cream is formed, then pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with croutons. Ham Mousse (cold) Half a pound lean cooked ham, \ pt. Espagnole sauce, 1 gill aspic jelly, gills cream, \ oz. gelatine, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round it a band of white paper to support the mousse or souffle, which should have a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must be overfilled; pound ham and sauce together in a mortar, and rub through a wire- sieve. Put the aspic into a basin, and whisk it till it becomes light and frothy, whip up the cream, and stir it by degrees into the pounded mixture; season well, then strain into it 5 oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a few drops of carmine to give a nice pink colour, and, lastly, the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. Turn into a prepared mould and put on the ice to set. When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped truffles, and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, allow to set, remove band of paper, slip the mousse into the outer souffle case, and it is ready to serve. Printaniere Sauce Blanch some tarragon, chervil, and chives. Drain and press. Then pound in a mortar with butter, pass through a sieve, and mix with some Allemande sauce, adding a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Bearnaise Sauce Place some tarragon and a sliced shalot in a sauce-pan with some seasoning. Cover with half a gill of tarragon vinegar, reduce to half, add one gill of stiff white sauce, and bind the mixture with two yolks of eggs. Work in two ounces of butter, and tammy the mixture. Finish with a little chopped tarragon and seasoning to taste. Orange Salad Four oranges, ^ lemon, 1 tablespoonful sweet salad oil (huile de Provence), 1 tablespoonful brandy, ^ teaspoonful castor sugar, ^ teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish. Cheese Straws About 6 oz. puff paste, 2 oz. freshly grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat