237 ENTREES OF BEEF with either oysters, mussels, olives, truffles, gherkins cut into scallops, fried onions, fine herbs, morels, etc., added to the sauce after they have been fried, instead of the mushrooms, as in the foregoing recipe. They may also be served when finished, with the addition of a piece of glaze and enough brown sauce for the entree, with every kind of puree of vegetables, and vegetable garnish mentioned in these recipes, or with any of the sauces recommended to be served with broiled steaks. In all cases, the garnish of these entrees should be placed in the centre of the fillets, in a conical form, and the sauce poured round the fillets. Planked Sirloin=Steak with Oysters Take a double sirloin - steak, trim it neatly, and put it on the broiler. Grill for five minutes on one side, turn, and grill for five minutes on the other side. Make the planking-board very hot whilst the steak is cooking. Put the steak on, garnish the board quickly with mashed potatoes, and put it under the broiler. Turn the steak once. Season with salt and pepper and rub it with butter. Cover the top with broiled oysters, then grill again for a few minutes. Serve hot. Planked Salisbury Steak (American) Chop finely three-quarters of a pound of lean beef-steak, season with salt, pepper, and onion juice : shape it into three even-sized cakes. Put these on to a hot plate and place under the broiler or griller; turn the steaks twice whilst cooking. When done, garnish the plank with mashed potatoes, and allow to brown. Have ready a baked banana for each cake. Make a cream sauce and flavour it with an ample quantity of grated horse-radish ; fill this round the board ; place the baked bananas on top, and serve. Chateaubriand a la Scribe Cut two or more double fillets of beef weighing six to eight ounces each. Trim and pare lightly, season with pepper and salt, and grill them, rather underdone, over or in front of a clear fire. Glaze them with dissolved meat glaze. Dish up, and garnish with small choux- paste croustades filled with foie gras ragoftt, and mashed potatoes (pommes duchesse). Send to table with a boat of Madbre sauce. Entrecotes a la St. Clair Cut two or three steaks from a sirloin of prime beef, flatten each a little with a cutlet-bat, and trim sparingly. Brush over each steak with oiled butter, and grill them over or in front of a clear fire so as to brown each side (they must be quite underdone and juicy). Have ready some anchovy butter made by wiping and boning six Gorgona anchovies, pound these with an ounce of butter, and rub through a hair-sieve. Season the sirloin - steaks, place them on a dish, and spread over with the butter. Put the dish in a hot oven for a few moments, then garnish with straw potatoes (pommes pailles), and serve quickly.