151 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Fillets of Pike may be dressed in every variety in which salmon, turbot, or soles are capable of being sent to table; and the directions given under those heads will suffice. It is necessary, however, to describe here the operation of filleting pike. The smaller sized of this fish are best suited for this purpose; these should be filleted as follows:— First lay the fish on the table, with its back placed towards you, insert the knife just below the gill, press with the left hand slightly on the upper part of the fillet, and then draw the knife down—close to the back-bone; when one fillet is removed, repeat the same opera- tion on the other side. Then lay the fillets alternately on the table with the skin downwards, insert the edge of the knife close to the skin at the extreme end, and by drawing the knife too and fro, keeping the blade closely pressed to the skin, it will come away from the fillet. Then cut these fillets into smaller ones, according to taste or con- venience, or into scallops, as the case may require. Perch a la Stanley Wash and prepare two or three fine bright perch, which should weigh not less than one pound and a half each; stew them in a little Rhenish wine, and when done, drain them, dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragofit (see p. 46), omitting the truffles but containing the liquor the perch have been stewed in. Garnish with a border of large crayfish, and send to table. Perch a la Waterfisch Boil two or more perch in a little French white wine, and when done, after removing the skin, dish up, and stick the red fins straight up in a row down the centre of the fish; on each side of the fins thus placed, decorate the perch by laying on its uppermost fillets shreds of boiled carrot and parsley-roots shred exceedingly fine; also in alternate rows with these some chopped blanched leaves of green parsley. Pour round the perch the following sauce:— Reduce the liquor in which the perch have been stewed with half a pint of white Veloutd sauce ; add a pat of fresh butter, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, a little nutmeg, and lemon juice ; mix the whole well together, and serve. Perch a la Venitienne Boil one or more perch, skin and dish them up, placing the red fins in a row down the centre; moisten with some sauce a la Venitienne (see p. 8), and send to table. In addition to the foregoing methods for preparing perch for the table, this fish may also be dressed in the same way as pike, carp, and tench, in Matelote, a la Dauphine, Water Souchet, k l’Allemande, a la Genoise, h la Hollandaise, & la Maitre d’Hotel, and also with Shrimp, Parsley and Butter, and plain Butter sauce. Note.—Perch should be served in fillets only when it happens