CAKES IN GENERAL 411 Italian Biscuits Ingredients : 3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour, some orange or lemon sugar for flavouring, a pinch salt, and 4 oz. chopped almonds. First divide the yolks from the whites of the eggs, placing the whites in an egg-bowl and the yolks in a basin; add the sugar, the flavouring, and the salt to the yolks, and work these together with a wooden spoon until it becomes a rather stiff creamy batter. Then add half the flour, and when this has been well mixed in, fold in the whites previously whipped stiffly, and add the remainder of the flour, taking care to keep the batter as firm and light as possible. Then fill a forcing-bag with some of the batter, and force it out on to baking-sheets (which must be buttered and floured) in round or oval shapes; and when the whole of the batter is used up in this manner, sprinkle the chopped almonds equally over the biscuits; dredge over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. These cakes are most appropriate for dessert; but, when made the size of a five-shilling piece, spread with any kind of fruit or jam on the under part, and two of them stuck together, they may be served as a second-course dish, with some whipped cream in the centre. Venetian Biscuits Prepare some Genoese mixture as on p. 406 ; when split into convenient-sized pieces, spread the insides with apricot jam and press together again. Then spread a thin coating of white icing on one square of Genoese, and a similar coating of pink icing on the other square; cut again into small oblong shapes of equal sizes; and when the icing has become dry, dish up, either for an entremet dish or for dessert. Swedes Ingredients : ^ lb. castor sugar, 6 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. flour, 1 stick vanilla (pounded and sifted) or a few drops vanilla essence, 1 whole egg and the white of another. Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, and then with a table- spoon mould the preparation into round balls the size of a large walnut. Place on pieces of rice-paper, cut to the size of half-crown pieces; put these on baking-sheets, and after dredging over some fine sugar, bake in a moderate oven. These cakes may also be finished as follows :—Spread the mixture about half an inch thick upon rice-paper, and immediately on its being taken from the oven, cut it into leaf-like shapes, and bend these over a rolling-pin till the pieces become cold and crisp. These cakes may be served either for dessert or an entremet dish; in the latter case, some whipped cream must be placed in the centre of the dish. Brown =■ Bread Biscuits Ingredients : £ lb. castor sugar, 6 oz. brown flour, 4 oz. sweet almonds ground up in their skins, 6 drops essence of bitter almonds, and 5 eggs.