349 VEGETABLES AND SALADS two ounces of fresh butter, some chopped parsley, and as much chopped winter savory as will cover the tip of a spoon, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; toss the beans over the fire for five minutes, and then incorporate with them a liaison of two yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon ; when the liaison is cooked, dish up with fleurons round, and serve. Green Peas Shell a pint of peas and put them into boiling water with some salt and a small bunch of green mint; keep them boiling briskly for about twenty minutes, and when done drain them in a colander, and dish up with chopped boiled mint on the top. Send some small pats of fresh butter separately to table. Creamed Peas Take a pint of cooked green peas (preserved ones will do when fresh ones are not obtainable); heat them up in boiling water contain- ing salt and a sprig of green mint. Drain off the water, and put the peas into a saute- or small stew-pan with three to four tablespoonfuls of cream; season, with salt and pepper, also a good pinch of castor sugar, add further a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and stir carefully over the fire until the peas are thoroughly hot. The cream must not be allowed to boil. A little fresh butter may be added to the peas if liked. Dish up and serve hot. Stewed Peas Put one and a half pints of young peas into a pan with two ounces of butter and plenty of cold water; rub the peas and butter together with the fingers until well mixed; then pour off the water, and put the peas into a stew-pan with a cabbage-lettuce shred small, a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a little salt; put the lid on, and leave to stew very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. Next put about two ounces of fresh butter on a plate with a dessertspoonful of flour, and knead them together; put this into the peas, and toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed; dish the peas up, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Peas a la Frangaise These are prepared as above directed, omitting the lettuce; stew them in the same manner, and when done add a little light-coloured glaze, and finish with two ounces of kneaded butter and flour, with a little more sugar than before. Glazed Turnips Cut about a dozen pieces of turnips into the form of rings about two inches in diameter, or else in the shape of small pears ; put them into a deep stew-pan thickly spread with fresh butter and sprinkled with about a tablespoonful of castor sugar; moisten with about half a pint of good consomm£, and set the turnips to simmer very gently for about forty minutes; when nearly done, remove the lid, and place over a brisk fire to boil the moisture down