VEGETABLES AND SALADS 351 together, stir over the ice till it begins to set, then add the cream previously whipped. Stamp out some rounds of brown bread a little larger than the cucumber shapes, spread over with some of the above prepared pur£e, place a round of cucumber on each and fill up the centre of each with the puree (pile up high). Decorate tastefully with some creamed butter and lobster butter, dish up, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Vegetable Marrow Peel and cut the vegetable marrow, according to size, into four, six, or eight pieces, just as oranges are divided; trim them neatly, place them in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter, and season with a very little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; moisten with half a pint of white stock, and boil gently over the fire for about ten minutes; then boil them down in their glaze; toss them gently in this, and dish up neatly in a conical form. Pour a little Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan and simmer it with the remainder of the glaze, mix in a pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the vegetable marrow, and serve. Baked Vegetable Marrow Peel thinly two fair-sized vegetable marrows, cut each in half, remove the seeds, and parboil in slightly salted water. Take up the marrows and drain them on a sieve, then cut them into slices not too small. Have ready an oval baking-dish, butter it well, and place in it the sliced marrows. Sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, and a little white sauce, spread a little sauce over the surface, and cover with a few bread-crumbs and some grated cheese, also a few little bits of butter. Bake for about half an hour in a hot oven, and send to table in the baking-dish, which must be placed in a larger dish, covered with a folded napkin. Vegetable Marrow a la Bechamel Peel and prepare the vegetable marrow as above, boil it gently in water with a little salt, drain and dish up; pour some white sauce or Bechamel over, and serve. Cucumber a la Poulette Peel and cut a medium-sized cucumber into slices about half an inch in diameter, put them into a basin with a tablespoonful of salt and twice that proportion of vinegar, and allow them to steep in this for several hours. Then pour off all the moisture from the slices and put them into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a very little grated nutmeg, and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire until quite tender. The butter must then be poured off, and a gill of Veloute sauce added; simmer the cucumber over the fire for a few minutes, finish by incorporating half a gill of cream, a teaspoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, and the juice of half a lemon ; dish up with a border of fleurons, and serve.