335 ENTRIES OF WILD DUCK AND WIDGEON Salmi of Widgeon or Teal Truss two of these for roasting, place on a dish, and strew over them a thinly-sliced carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bay leaf; season with mignonette pepper, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this marinade for twelve hours, frequently turning them over that they may become thoroughly impregnated. Then wrap them in sheets of oiled paper, and tie up with string. Roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for fifteen minutes; let them cool, cut them up in the ordinary way for salmis, use the trimmings and the gravy that has run from the bird to make the sauce with, which is to be prepared as directed on p. 334. Pour the sauce when finished on to the pieces of wild fowl, adding some button-mushrooms; warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish with croutons, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Wild Duck, Widgeon, or Teal k la Bigarade Prepare one or more wild fowl as directed in the previous recipe; cover the breasts with seasoning, wrap up securely in greased paper, and roast before a brisk fire or in the oven; when nearly done, remove the paper that they may brown slightly. Take them up, and fillet them, leaving the pinion-bones on ; score, trim, and dish up at once, placing a crouton between each fillet; add the gravy that runs from the birds to some Bigarade sauce (see p. 9), pour this over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Wild Fowl a la Proven^ale Prepare the fillets as above, dish up in the same manner, pour some Provengale sauce (see p. 8), to which has been added a glass of Madeira, over, and serve. Widgeon a 1’Americaine Roast one or more widgeon, basting frequently with fresh butter while roasting: when done, cut up into small joints, and place in a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, the juice of a lemon, and two glasses of port wine ; allow the whole to simmer gently over a moderate fire for ten minutes; dish up the entree with fried croutons round it, pour the sauce over the widgeon, and serve. Fillets of Teal k l’Anglaise Roast one or more teal; when done, cut the fillets out, score them across, and dish up with croutons of fried bread; pour some essence of orange (see p. 40) over, and serve.