THE MODERN COOK i3° About half an hour before dinner, put the haddock in the oven to finish baking; just before serving, take off the paper, and with a clean napkin absorb all the grease and moisture there may be upon the fish; then carefully remove the haddock on to a dish, sauce round with some Parisian sauce (see p. n), and garnish with some quenelles of lobster, with a large scallop of truffle intervening between each quenelle, and send to table. Haddock Stuffed and Baked is prepared in the same manner as cods’ heads baked, previously described. Haddock baked may also be served with Poivrade, Piquante, Tomato, Italian, Oyster, Mussel, or Caper sauce. Haddocks a la Belle=Vue Skin two small haddocks ; truss them as you would whiting for frying, and put them into a baking-dish with a little butter; cover them with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whiting coloured with lobster coral; then place across their backs some fillets of soles contises with green gherkins, taking care to leave the space of an inch between each fillet, so as to insert some small truffles cut in the shape of olives ; over all place a buttered paper; moisten with a glass of white wine and a little stock if necessary, and put the haddocks in the oven to poach for about half an hour. Then remove the paper and bacon, and slip them with great care on to a dish ; sauce round with Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), and garnish with a border of quenelles of whiting in which has been mixed enough finely chopped parsley to colour them, and send to table. Broiled Haddock with Dutch Sauce To broil haddock in perfection, it is necessary, first, to wipe it well over, and then to score it with a sharp knife; next to steep it in a little salad oil, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before dinner, place the haddock on a gridiron which has been rubbed with whitening and broil ten to fifteen minutes; when done on both sides, dish it up and send some Dutch sauce (see p. n) to table in a boat. Haddock Boiled with Egg Sauce Boil a medium-sized haddock in salt and water for twenty to thirty minutes; when done, drain and dish up, and send to table with Egg sauce (see p. 20) in a boat. This fish, when plain boiled, may be sent to table with almost any kind of fish sauce. Fillets of Haddock & la Royale Fillet a nice large haddock; remove the skin by passing the knife under the fillet, so as to detach the tail end of the skin from the fish, then take a firm hold of the piece of detached skin, and inserting the knife with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw