ENTREES OF WOODCOCK, SNIPE, AND ORTOLAN 333 sauce ; rub this through a tammy, and spread it upon six or eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. These croutons should be placed in the oven for three minutes to warm them. Fillets of Woodcock a l’Ancienne See “ Fillets of Partridges ” (p. 329). Add the trail to the legs of the woodcocks; prepare an essence with the carcases, and use this to mix with the sauce; in all other respects proceed in the same manner. Fillets of Woodcock a la Perigueux Trim the fillets of two woodcocks, using the under fillets to form three more, by patting them together with the handle of a knife; place them in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt. Prepare some farce with the trail, as on p. 332, and spread itr upon as many croutons of fried bread as there are fillets. Simmer the fillets over the fire without allowing them to brown ; drain off the butter, then add a little of the Perigueux sauce mixed with the essence made from the carcases, toss the fillets in this, and dish up in a close circle round a small croustade of fried bread cut in the form of a vase ; place one of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven for three minutes) between each fillet; fill the croustade with some purde of truffles (see p. 30), pour the Perigueux sauce over the fillets, and serve. Salmi of Woodcock a la Minute Roast one or more woodcocks just before dinner-time ; cut them up into small joints in the usual manner, reserving the trail, which must be made into a pur£e and spread upon half-a-dozen small heart- shaped croutons. Prepare the sauce as directed above, and add it to the woodcocks. Warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in a pyramidal form, and place the croutons round the base ; add a small dessertspoonful of chopped and boiled parsley to the sauce, pour it over the entree, and serve. Salmi of Woodcock a la Bourguignote Roast one or more woodcocks, cut them up, and prepare the croutons as in the previous recipe; make an essence with the trimmings, and add this to a Bourguignote ragout (see p. 45). Warm the salmis with a little of the sauce, dish up, garnish with the ragout and sauce, place the crofitons round the base, and serve. Salmi of Snipe a la Bordelaise Roast four to six fat snipes, split them into halves, and prepare eight to ten croutons with the trail, as directed on p. 332; dish up the snipes in double circular rows, first placing a row of croutons, then pieces of snipes upon these, and again the croutons, closing with the remainder of the snipes : fill the centre with a ragofit of button-mushrooms, truffles, and small quenelles, pour some Bordelaise sauce (see p. 14) over the entree, and serve.