CAKES IN GENERAL 4°3 Plain Seed Cake Ingredients : ij lb. dough, 2 eggs, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. carraway seeds, and 1 teaspoonful salt. Spread the dough out on a pastry slab. Add the whole of the above-named ingredients, and work them well together with the hands so as thoroughly to incorporate them with the dough. When the paste is ready, put it into a plain greased mould and leave to rise in a warm place. As soon as the cake has risen sufficiently, bake in the oven till light brown. When done, serve cold for luncheon or otherwise. This kind of cake may be varied by introducing raisins, currants, or candied orange or lemon peel. German Rusks or Zwieback Ingredients: i lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, ^ oz. German yeast, 2 oz. sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, and h pt. milk. Mix the paste in the manner described for the preparation of the Compiegne cake, excepting that this must be beaten with the hand on the slab until it becomes elastic; the sponge should then be added, and after the whole has been well worked together, put the paste in long narrow tins which have been first well floured inside (to prevent the paste from sticking), and leave in a warm place to rise. When the mixture has sufficiently risen, it must be gently turned out on a greased baking-sheet, brushed over with egg, and baked a golden colour. When done, cut them up in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, place them flat on a baking-sheet, and replace again in the oven to brown on both sides. Note.—Rusks may also be made with brioche paste, pound cake, or Savoy cake; in the latter case a few carraway seeds are sometimes added. Pound Cake Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 6 eggs, 1 wine-glass brandy, a little salt, and rind of 2 oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. Put the butter in a basin and beat it to a cream ; add the flour, sugar, and eggs gradually; when the whole is thoroughly mixed, add the brandy, grated rind, and salt; mix well together, and bake the cake in any kind of mould (previously spread with butter), or in a tin hoop lined with buttered paper. Plums, currants, almonds, pistachio kernels, candied peel, or dried cherries may be also added to this kind of cake. Flemish Gaufres Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, 3 eggs, i oz. yeast, 1 gill milk, 1 gill cream (whipped), £ teaspoonful vanilla essence, and a little salt. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, then add the milk (warmed) with the yeast dissolved in it; mix these gradually and thoroughly; then take the spoon out, scrape the sides of the