TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 4i5 moderate oven; and, when done and sufficiently cold, cut up into thin slices. This preparation may also be baked in small moulds, or forced out upon paper or baking-sheets buttered and floured for the purpose. Victoria Biscuits Ingredients : ^ lb. castor sugar, 8 oz. dried flour, 3 oz. pounded or ground bitter almonds, 6 oz. fresh butter, 1 wine-glassful Kirsch- wasser, and grated rind of 1 lemon. First let the butter be worked up in a basin with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy; then add the remainder of the ingredients, finishing with the Kirschwasser; and when the batter is ready, pour it into small moulds ready buttered and floured over. When these cakes or biscuits are baked, spread the surface with orange marmalade, and then glaze them according to directions given for finishing Apricot biscuits (see p. 413). TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES French Banana Tart Roll out half a pound of rough puff or short crust paste, made with six ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, and the necessary water to mix into a fairly firm paste. Place a pastry hoop on a baking-sheet, butter both and line with the paste, ornament the edges, and fill the shape with uncooked rice, then bake for about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Take out the rice and fill the paste crusts with round slices of bananas arranged in neat layers. Besprinkle each layer of fruit with a little well- flavoured fruit syrup (currant and raspberry for preference), brush over the top with well-reduced syrup, and bake for another ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. Fanchonnettes Prepare half a pint of pastry custard as directed for the profit- rolles (see p. 408), season it either with an ounce of grated chocolate, an infusion of coffee, a glass of liqueur, or a few drops of some kind of essence, such as orange flower, vanilla, bitter almonds, or lemon ; fill a dozen plain-lined tartlets with the custard, bake a golden colour, and when done take them out of the moulds and leave to get cold. Meanwhile whip two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in one and a half ounces of sugar, and use some of this to mask the fanchonnettes; then shake some sifted sugar over them, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven to lightly brown the meringue. Before dishing them up, ornament them by placing some neat strips of bright currant or apple jelly in between the folds of the decoration. These fanchonnettes may be varied, by altering the form and design according to taste, when masking them with the whipped whites of eggs. Strips of pistachios, almonds, or currants may also be used for this purpose.