202 THE MODERN COOK Neck of Red Deer a la Marie Stuart Saw off the chine-bone and shorten the rib of a small neck, then remove the whole of the sinewy covering from the meaty part of the neck, leaving a perfectly even surface, which must be larded closely in the usual manner—taking care that when trimming neck of deer, the whole of the fat that covers the ribs must be left on. When the neck is larded, marinade it in the pickle prescribed for the haunch; and leave to steep in this about six days and nights, when it will be ready for dressing. Take out and prepare for braising in similar manner to the haunch. When done, take up on to a baking-sheet, and put in the oven to dry the larding for a few minutes, glaze, and place on a dish in the form of a Chevaux-de-frise: this is effected by placing the neck on its base, and allowing the rib-bones to fall over, or between each other, showing the larded parts outside. Garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and a border of quenelles of pheasant a la Richelieu (see p. 295), at each end; glaze the larding of the venison, and serve. Neck of Red Deer a la St. Andrew Prepare and braise a neck of red deer in the manner last men- tioned ; when done, glaze and dish up after the same directions; garnish with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44), with Poivrade sauce; surround with a border of quenelles of grouse, decorated with truffles; at each end place a croustade of bread cut in the shape of a vase, and fried a golden colour, and fill it with a group of four large truffles; glaze the larding, and send to table. Fillets of Red Deer a la Royale Take out the fillets of a neck of red deer, which must be cut with part of the loin adhering to it; trim and lard all over the upper surface, after which steep in a marinade (see p. 57) for six days. Then proceed to dress in the same manner as directed for the haunch £1 la Glengarry. When the fillets are done, take them out of their braise on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze nicely, and afterwards dish up on an oval croustade of fried bread, about two inches high, and cut round in flutes; garnish with a ragout composed as follows :— Braise three pork sausages, and after they have been allowed to cool, cut them up and throw the pieces into a large bain-marie; to these add an equal quantity of neat cubes of streaky bacon (previously braised), some button-mushrooms and green gherkins. A rich Poivrade sauce must be poured on the ingredients; let the whole boil on the fire for two minutes, pour the ragout round the fillets, and place a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) (rolled in fried bread-crumbs) round the edge of the dish, and serve.