AUXILIARY RECIPES 471 Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar- boiler, add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the fire until it acquires a dark amber colour, add the milk and boil up, then stir in the yolks of eggs, two at a time, and the re- mainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, strain it into the above, let it cool a little, whip the cream, and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool; when set, turn out and serve. Lemon Sauce Half pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, £ oz. cornflour, £ lemon. Put the yolks of eggs in a small sauce-pan, beat up well, and add the castor sugar, cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly the boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain, and serve as directed. Chocolate Sauce Four oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, 1 oz. fecule or creme de riz, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful brandy. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a sauce-pan ; stir over the fire until it boils. Mix the fdcule or crbme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for five minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the sauce-pan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. Vanilla Sauce One tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornflour, J pt. milk, 1 pat fresh butter, \ oz. loaf-sugar, vanilla pod. Boil up the milk with the butter, loaf-sugar, and an inch of vanilla pod. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk in a basin, and pour on it the hot milk; return to the sauce-pan, boil up, and cook for eight minutes. A little cream may be added just before serving. Raspberry Sauce One gill raspberry pulp, 1 oz. sugar, 1 tablespoonful cornflour, milk or cream, rum or brandy. Heat up the raspberry pulp (or raspberry jam) with the sugar. Mix the cornflour with milk, cream, or water, and stir into the above. Boil for eight minutes, strain, and add rum or brandy to taste.