THE MODERN COOK I 2 minutes, and then add a gill of Allemande sauce; stir the whole on the fire till it boils, then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce add a pat of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. This sauce will prove an excellent accessory, to be served with any entree of poultry or game when dressed k la Dauphine or k la Villeroi; as also for fillets of dressed fish, bread-crumbed, and denominated a la Princess, in which case a little anchovy butter may be added. Albert Sauce Grate two ounces of horse-radish; put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of good broth; let this simmer gently on a moderate fire for half an hour, then add half a gill of white sauce and a quarter of a pint of cream ; reduce the whole over a brisk fire, and pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain-marie- just before using the sauce make it hot, and mix in a dessertspoon- ful of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some salt, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and two yolks of eggs. This sauce is well adapted to be eaten with braised fillet of beef, garnished with potatoes cut into the shape of olives, and fried in butter. Mousseline Sauce Heat up in a small sauce-pan a gill of white sauce (Bechamel), then stir in with a whisk the yolks of two eggs; stand the sauce-pan in boiling water over the fire, and whisk the sauce until nearly boiling. Next add by degrees one ounce of fresh butter—this must be whisked in in small quantities; and, lastly, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and whisk until the sauce has acquired the consistency of a light cream. Just before serving incorporate one or two table- spoonfuls of whipped cream. This sauce is excellent with boiled fish, asparagus, artichokes, cauliflower, etc. Indian Curry Sauce Take one onion, one small carrot, and one head of celery, and slice them very thin ; place these, with two ounces of fresh butter, in a stew-pan,’and fry them over a slow fire till the onion is nearly melted, but without becoming brown; add three blades of mace, some thyme and a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, half a tablespoonful of curry paste, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and as much roux or flour as may be required to thicken the quantity of sauce needed ; moisten with one pint of good broth or consommd, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then set it by the side to clear itself of the butter, etc. Having skimmed and reduced the sauce to a proper consistency, pass it through a tammy (extracting the parsley), as for a purtie, and put it into a bain-marie, or add it to whatever kind of meat is prepared for the curry, taking care that the broth should be used for making the sauce.