425 FRITTERS first placing a band of the same round the edge of the dish; ornament the edges by pressing them with the back of a knife, brush over the tart with white of egg and bake for about forty minutes; when done, sift some sugar upon the top, and glaze with a red-hot salamander or return it to the oven to brown. Pear Tart If mellow pears be used for this purpose, the directions in the last recipe may be followed; but if stewing pears are made use of, these must be first stewed with some sugar, a little water, and some lemon-peel and cloves tied together. When the pears are nearly done, let them cool before filling the pie-dish, which in this case should be covered with tart paste (see p. 392). Brush over the surface with a paste-brush dipped in some beaten white of egg, sprinkle with sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Fruit Tarts in General When peaches, apricots, or any of the larger kinds of plums are used for making tarts, the stones should be removed, and the kernels taken out and blanched; the fruit should be then neatly arranged in the pie-dish in the form of a dome, with the kernels amongst it, and some sifted sugar strewn over all. Then cover with short crust, and finish as directed in the two previous recipes. For making cherry, damson, raspberry, and currant tarts, follow the same directions, except that the stones need not be removed from the first two. FRITTERS Apple Fritters Peel and cut three or four even-sized apples in rather thick slices, scoop out the cores with a cutter, and place the pieces of apples in a basin with a small glass of brandy and some grated peel of lemon or orange, letting them steep in this for several hours if possible. When about to send the fritters to table, dip the pieces of apple into some light frying batter (see p. 56), take them out one at a time, and fry a golden colour in some hot fat; when they are done, drain them on a sheet of paper, trim off all the rough parts, sprinkle some fine sugar upon them, and serve. Note.—Pear fritters are made in the same manner as the above. Pine-Apple Fritters Slice four or five round slices of preserved pine-apple without waste; if it is small, cut it into slices in the same manner as apples; but if the fruit happens to be large, it should be cut up in pieces about the size of a finger; these must be then steeped in a small glass of maraschino in a basin for several hours. Dip in batter mixed with cream. In other respects, finish as directed for apple fritters.