i7 SAUCES IN GENERAL Next put into a small stew-pan with about an ounce of fresh butter, and fry to a light-yellow colour; then drain the butter and add two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar; set this on the fire to simmer, and when the vinegar is nearly reduced add a gill of Espagnole sauce, and half that quantity of consomme; stir this on the fire till it boils, then set it on the side to continue gently boiling that it may clear itself. Skim it thoroughly, and, having reduced it to a proper consistency, pour it into a bain-marie, and finish it by mixing in two teaspoonfuls of French mustard and a pinch of mignonette pepper. This sauce is peculiarly adapted, from its piquante, full, yet delicate flavour, for entrees of broiled pork. Sauce a la Gasconne Take a dessertspoonful of French capers, with about an ounce of truffles, and chop each separately, very fine. Put these into a small stew-pan, together with one clove of garlic, a tablespoonful of salad oil, some pepper, and nutmeg. Fry them lightly on the fire for two or three minutes ; moisten with a glass of French white wine ; set the whole to boil on the fire for three minutes, then add a gill of white Veloute sauce, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme. Stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue boiling gently. Skim it well, and after having added another glass of wine, reduce the sauce and thicken it with a liaison of two yolks. Pour the sauce into a bain-marie, and just before using it mix in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched chives, parsley, and tarragon, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon juice. Chevreuil Sauce (Piquante Sauce for Roebuck) Chop one ounce of lean ham and put it into a stew-pan with a good pinch of mignonette pepper, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, one green onion, and some sprigs of parsley. Moisten with a gill of French vinegar, boil the whole on the fire till reduced to half its original quantity, and then add a gill of brown sauce, a glass of red wine, and a gill of consomme. Stir this on the fire till it boils, and after having cleared and skimmed it in the usual manner, reduce it to a proper consistency, and finish by adding a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of half an orange. Butter Sauce Butter sauce, or, as it is more often absurdly called, melted butter, is the foundation of the whole of the following sauces, and requires very great care in its preparation. Though simple, it is nevertheless a very useful and agreeable sauce when properly made; so far from this being usually the case, it is generally left to assistants to prepare as an insignificant matter—the result is, therefore, seldom satisfactory. When a large quantity of butter sauce is required, put two ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stew-pan, with some grated nutmeg and mignonette pepper; to these add two ounces of sifted flour. Knead the whole well together, and moisten with a pint of cold C