CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 465 Apricot Charlotte This is prepared in the same manner as the above, substituting apricots for peaches, and apricot marmalade for peach ditto; and, when the charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey, diluted with a liqueur called Ratafia d’abricots, round the base, and serve. Peach Croutes With the remains of Brioche, Compiegne, Kouglatiff, or Savarin cakes, cut out some oblong shapes, sugar over, and brown in the oven; then spread each with some peach jam, and proceed to dish up these fingers, each resting upon the other in the form of a high wreath; on the top of this some halves of peaches (previously boiled for about three minutes in syrup) must be arranged; and, having filled the hollow centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green angelica at the summit, decorate the pieces of peach with preserved cherries, raspberries, strawberries, or currant jelly; pour some maraschino over the crusts and round the base, and serve. Peaches a la Richelieu Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of milk with two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, a few drops of vanilla, and a pinch of salt. Work the whole together with a wooden spoon, and proceed to form with some of the rice a circular base about two inches high in the inner part of the dish. On the outer part of this base dress some peaches, prepared as for a compote, in a thick circle, each over- lapping the other; fill the centre of these with a piece of the prepared rice about three inches high, and upon this eminence build up a pyramid of peaches. Round the base of the entremet place a border of preserved greengages; stick a plume made of angelica on the summit, and finish by pouring some vanilla liqueur round the base. Supreme of Fruits a la Victoria Prepare some Genoese cake about an inch thick, and out of this cut three or four graduated circular pieces, so that when stuck one upon the other with some kind of fruit jam in between, a kind of pyramid will be formed. Then arrange upon this elevation rows of either peaches, apricots, pears, or apples prepared as for compotes, finishing at the summit with a vase or cup formed out of apple or pear, and filled with a Macedoine of fruits. Mask the rows of fruit with some apricot jam diluted with maraschino; and with a forcing bag and pipe filled with whipped cream ornament the base of the entremet in wave-like fashion, and upon these place some plumed pieces of green angelica. Croquettes of Pears Peel and shape about six or eight middle-sized pears of good quality, and gently simmer them in a little syrup until done. Prepare 2 H