269 ENTRIES OF LAMB small bone in at the narrow end, and spread a coating of reduced Allemande sauce over them; when this is set firm by cooling, roll first in bread-crumbs and then dip them in beaten egg, and bread- crumb over again. When about to send to table, fry these cutlets in plenty of hot fat, dish up, garnish with stewed peas, pour some half- glaze round the base, and serve. Note.—Breast of lamb prepared a la Villeroi may also be served with spinach, endives, cucumbers, asparagus peas, Macedoine, etc. Breast of Lamb a la Marechale Trim and prepare a small breast of lamb after the same manner as the previous recipe. Egg and bread-crumb and flatten the cutlets. When about to send to table, fry a light golden colour, drain on a sheet of paper, and glaze them lightly; dish up, and serve some White Italian sauce under them. They may also be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as cutlets of veal a la Dreux (see p. 259); then braised, pressed, and trimmed. Next cover the bottom of a saute-pan with some melted aspic jelly, not quite a quarter of an inch deep; when this has become set firm, by cooling, place the cutlets flat upon it, in circular order, then pour a little aspic jelly over them, just enough to cover them, and place the saute-pan on ice, to set the jelly; as soon as this has become quite firm, use a cutter (in the form of a cutlet) dipped in hot water to stamp the cutlets out; dish up in circular order upon a little aspic jelly, placed on the bottom of the dish, to raise the cutlets, and garnish the centre with a well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) tossed in some bright aspic jelly, instead of sauce; ornament with a border of bold croutons of jelly, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber Take eight nice cutlets. In trimming, care must be taken not to pare off any more of the fat than is positively necessary to give the cutlets shape. When trimmed, place in a stew-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, fry on both sides a light-brown colour, pour off the fat, throw in a little glaze, toss the cutlets over the fire in this, and dish up ; garnish the centre with prepared slices of cucumber (see p. 33), pour a little Espagnole or half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Lamb Cutlets, Bread=Crumbed, with Asparagus Peas Trim six or eight cutlets, season with pepper and salt, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs; then dip them in some clarified butter and bread-crumb over again; pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in neat order in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets a light golden colour, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze and dish up ; fill the centre with asparagus peas (see p. 35), pour some thin Espagnole or half-glaze round them, and serve.