THE MODERN COOK 254 Sheep’s=Tong;ues with Gherkin Sauce Prepare, finish, and dish up the tongues according to the directions in the first recipe of this series, pour some gherkin sauce in the centre of the entree, and serve. Note.—Sheep’s-tongues prepared after the foregoing directions may be served with every kind of brown sauce or ragout; and also with any of the vegetable garnishes or purees described in these recipes. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Brochette Slit three or more kidneys lengthwise without cutting through the sinew; remove the thin skin which covers them, and place them on a small dish ; season with pepper and salt and a tablespoonful of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this seasoning until broiled. They must then be run on a small silver or any other kind of skewer (two or three on each), and placed upon a gridiron over a clear fire to be broiled, with the open side downwards; when brown, they must be turned up, as, from the heat of the fire, their sides become contracted, which causes them to form a sort of cup to hold the gravy in when the kidneys are done; care must be taken not to spill this gravy in dishing them up; fill each with a small piece of cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. n), pour a little half-glaze under them, and send to table quite hot. Broiled kidneys may also be served with anchovy butter, plain gravy, or a pat of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce. Sheep’s Kidneys a l’Epicurienne Split the kidneys as before directed, season with pepper and salt, dip in clarified butter, and roll in bread-crumbs; place on the skewers, and broil on both sides; when done, dish up with a small piece of Epicurean butter (see p. 43) in each, the juice of a lemon and a little half-glaze under them, and serve quite hot. Sheep’s Kidneys with Fine Herbs Prepare some Fine Herbs sauce, slit the kidneys lengthwise, quite through; remove the skin, and then slice them into thin pieces. Place a frying-pan with one ounce of butter in it on a brisk fire; fry the kidneys lightly, then remove and add a glass of sherry or Madeira; let this boil till reduced, then pour in the sauce prepared for the purpose; let the whole simmer together on the stove for three minutes ; then add the kidneys, reheat, dish up with some pastry fleurons round them, and serve. Another Method Cut the kidneys in thin slices, season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a little butter; then throw in a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a shalot, also chopped ; after allowing the whole to fry a few minutes longer, shake in a teaspoonful of flour, mix together, and moisten with a glass of