NATIONAL SOUPS io5 cheese and one or two yolks of eggs ; work the whole on the fire for five minutes, spread it on a plate, and when this paste is sufficiently cold mould it into very small round balls. Just before dinner-time dip these in some beaten egg and roll them in flour; then put them into a deep frying-pan in enough hot clean fat to cover; fry them to a fine deep yellow colour and send to table on a hot plate, on napkins, to be handed round with the soup as before stated. Soup a la Piemontaise Prepare three pints of brown purde of turnips (see p. 76), in which mix half a pint of tomato pulp; just before sending to table incorporate with the soup a paste composed of one or two anchovies washed, filleted, and pounded, with a clove of garlic and a pat of butter, all passed through a fine hair-sieve; and pour the soup into a tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) and a pluche of chervil and tarragon (that is to say, the leaves of chervil and tarragon picked and parboiled green), and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round with the soup. Soup a la Bearnaise Let a pint of garbangas, or large yellow Spanish peas, be put in soak overnight, place them in a small stock-pot with one ounce of raw ham, and having filled up with three pints of common stock, set the stock-pot on the fire to boil; skim it well, and put it by the side to boil gently for four hours. Meanwhile, cut one onion, one carrot, and a stick of celery into small dice, put these into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter and a small clove of garlic; fry them to a very light-brown colour, and after adding two or three fresh tomatoes mix the whole in with the garbangas. As soon as the garbangas are done, pound and rub them through the tammy or sieve—diluting with good consomme; put the puree in a small sauce-pan, and clarify it in the usual manner by allowing it to throw up its scum while boiling gently by the side of the fire: remember that this puree must be kept rather thin. During this process cut half a white-heart cabbage into quarters, removing the core, shred them as fine as possible, place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter on a moderate fire, and fry them as you would vegetables for Julienne soup. When they are considerably reduced in quantity, and become of a yellowish colour, moisten them with half a pint of stock ; keep them gently simmering until they are thoroughly done ; add them to the puree, together with a pinch of mignonette pepper, and about a gill of whole garbangas reserved for this purpose. When the cabbage has boiled a few minutes in the puree, pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with an accompanying plate of grated Parmesan cheese, to be handed round with the soup. Bouillabaisse or Provengale Soup Cut two large onions into slices, and fry them in oil; when they begin to turn a light-brown colour add a sprig of thyme and a clove of garlic, and shake in one ounce of flour; stir this on the fire for a