33 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING directed above. Finish them in the same manner, and, having reduced them down in their own glaze, either use them as they are, or else add a good tablespoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or, indeed, any other kind of sauce that may be appropriate for the dish they are meant to garnish. Garnish of Turnips Peel two or three turnips, trim them into fancy shapes as directed in the preceding recipe, boil them for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, place them in a stew-pan with a little sugar, salt, and a small pat of butter. Moisten with a gill of white stock, put them on the fire, and when they are nearly done boil them down quickly in their glaze without allowing them to acquire much colour. These turnips may be used for a garnish, merely rolled in their own glaze, or a tablespoonful of either Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or finished Espagnole sauce may be added. Garnish of Carrots and Turnips k la Nivernaise Cut the red part of one large carrot into the shape of small olives or round balls. Place these in a small saute-pan with a little clarified butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; fry them on the fire so as to give them a light colour, then place them on a sieve to drain off the butter, and put them into a small stew-pan with a small piece of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt; moisten them with a small gill of consomme, and set them to boil gradually until nearly done, when they must boil rapidly to glaze. Having thus disposed of the carrot, prepare one large turnip, cut in a similar shape, and boil down to a glaze similarly to the carrots, and when both are done mix them together, and use them for entrees of braised mutton, beef, or any sort of cutlets. Garnish of Cucumber in Scallops Cut a good-sized cucumber into inch-lengths ; divide each piece, length-wise, into two or more pieces, according to the size of the cucumber, so that when trimmed they should be rather larger in size than a shilling; in trimming them, first scoop out the seedy part with a small root-knife, then peel off the green rind and pare away the angles slightly, so as to give them a somewhat rounded appearance. Next, place them in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt, and allow them to remain in this pickle, or marinade, for about a couple of hours, then drain them on a sieve, and place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, and a good gill of white consonant; set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for twenty minutes, when they will be nearly done; boil them down quickly to a glaze, and keep them separately until they are wanted for immediate use; then set them on the fire to boil in order to absorb any moisture they may have thrown out, previously to adding a good tablespoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or brown sauce, as the case may require. D