THE MODERN COOK 286 on top, and pour over the rest of the sauce. Cover and cook slowly in a fairly hot oven for about thirty-five minutes. Place the terrine on to a folded napkin on an oblong entree dish, and serve hot. Chicken a la Reine Truss two very small spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with lemon juice, and wrap them up separately in a sheet of thickly- buttered paper; then place the chickens in a stew-pan with a bouquet garni, a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves; moisten with white stock in sufficient quantity to nearly cover the chickens; set them to boil gently for about forty minutes, when they will be done. When about to send to table, drain the chickens, and after having removed the paper and string, dish them up side by side, and cover them with Supreme sauce, garnish the dish with four groups of very small quenelles of fowl, and serve. Chicken a i’ltalienne Truss and boil two small chickens according to the foregoing directions; when done, remove the paper and dish up; sauce with a rich Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), garnish with a border of stuffed mushrooms (see p. 344), and serve. Chicken with Tomato Sauce These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, with this exception that, when dished up, they must be sauced with a well-finished Tomato sauce, and a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344) should be placed round them. Chicken a la Venitienne The chickens when boiled and dished up must be sauced with a Venetian sauce (see p. 8), and garnished with a border of raviolis (see p. 103). Chicken a la Dauphine Draw two small spring chickens, proceed to bone them as for “galantines,” excepting that the legs and wings must be left entire. The interior must be then filled with quenelle of fowl, in which has been mixed some chopped mushrooms and parsley; the chickens should afterwards be trussed, taking care to give them the same shape as they would have were the bones not removed; and after rubbing them over with lemon juice, cover the breasts with thin layers of fat bacon, and secure their shape by wrapping them in sheets of buttered paper; then place them in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, and a bouquet garni; moisten with some light mirepoix (see p. 57), and set the chickens to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour; when done, drain them, remove the string, etc., and dish them up; sauce with the clarified essence in which they have been braised, and serve.