445 PUDDINGS IN GENERAL Mix the bread-crumbs, sugar, yolks of eggs, and whipped cream, lemon, cinnamon, and salt together in a basin; then add the whipped whites of the eggs, and put the whole on one side. Next spread a plain mould with butter, and coat it with brown-bread crumbs; then spread a large spoonful of the preparation at the bottom of the mould, and arrange a layer of cherries (with the stones left in) upon it; cover this with some of the preparation, and upon it place more cherries, and so on until the mould is filled. Put the pudding on a baking-sheet, and then in the oven to bake for about an hour; when done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, pour a puree of Cherry sauce round the base, and serve. In Germany it is customary to eat this kind of pudding as a cake when cold, when it should be entirely covered with sifted sugar, mixed with one-fourth part of cinnamon powder. Cherry Bread Pick the stalks from half a pound of cherries, remove the stones, and pound them in a mortar; then put the pulp in a small preserv- ing pan with a gill of claret or port wine, and two or three ounces of sugar; leave to boil upon the fire, remove the scum as it rises, and after the cherries have boiled for about five minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour into a silver souffle case. Meanwhile prepare six slices of crumb of bread or French rolls, shaped in the form of eggs with a sharp knife, and fry a light-fawn colour in some clarified butter. Drain on paper and arrange them in rows in the puree of cherries; shake some cinnamon sugar over, put the cherry bread on a baking-sheet in the oven to simmer slowly for about ten minutes, and when done, send to table. Krapfen or German Puffs Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 oz. sugar, £ oz. German yeast, a very little salt, with the rind of an orange rubbed on a piece of sugar and the zest then scraped off. First set the sponge, with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, in the usual manner, and let it rise in a warm temperature; meanwhile spread the rest of the flour out in the form of a ring, and place the sugar, salt, butter, eggs, and cream in the centre; then work the whole well together with both hands, and knead thoroughly with the knuckles. As soon as the sponge has risen sufficiently, add to the paste, and mix thoroughly, then leave to rise again for a short time. Knead the paste on the slab, and cut up into about a dozen pieces of equal size ; knead these in the form of round balls, place them on sheets of paper, and set to rise in a warm place; when the krapfen have risen, plunge them in some hot lard, and fry them a light colour; drain them on a clean cloth, sprinkle with cinnamon and orange sugar, dish up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve with some warm apricot jam diluted with a little water or syrup.