217 RAISED PIES AND PATTIES fermented juice of beetroot (see p. 106), cover with buttered paper and the lid containing hot embers, and set them to braise slowly on a slow fire. When the birds are done, take them up on a dish and keep them covered until they are dished up. Next strain the liquor, skim off all the fat, boil down nearly to half-glaze, then add to it a glass of red wine; allow this sauce to boil by the side of the fire for five minutes ; skim and strain, and keep it hot. Then place the black game on a dish side by side, garnish with carrots prepared in the Swedish fashion, and round this place another border composed of neatly-cut slices of the streaky bacon and German sausage; pour the sauce over the remove, and serve. The carrots above alluded to should be thus prepared:—Cut the red part of five or six large carrots into thin strips, cut these again into thin shreds of about two inches long. Next place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter and half a gill of vinegar; season with a little sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt; set them to stew very gently, taking care to turn them over now and then with a spoon; about half an hour will suffice to cook them, when, if any moisture remains, it must be boiled down, and they will be ready for use. Black Game a la Paysanne See pheasants k la Paysanne (p. 323). Black Game a la Norwegienne Truss these as for roasting, lard the breasts closely; set them to. braise in an oval stew-pan, moistened with a mirepoix (see p. 57) made with two parts of good stock and one third of French vinegar; baste the birds frequently while they are being braised; when done, set them upon a baking-sheet in the oven for two minutes to dry the larding, then glaze and dish them up ; garnish with a border of stewed red cabbage dressed in the same way as French sauerkraut (see p. 39). Sauce the remove with a Poivrade mixed with half the liquor in which the birds have been braised, previously cleared of all fat and boiled down to half-glaze; glaze the larding, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing black game, they may also be served k la Soubise, k la Perigueux, k la Financibre, with a puree of celery, Richelieu sauce, braised cabbages, and k la Dauphinoise, for the preparation of which see those recipes. Note.—Grouse should be cooked in the same way as black game. RAISED PIES AND PATTIES French Rabbit Pie with Fine Herbs Prepare and line a patb-chaud case with some hot-water crust, leaving enough for the top. Cut up one or more young rabbits into neat joints, place in a