259 ENTREES OF VEAL in hot fat a light colour, and, having dished them up as directed in the preceding recipe, garnish and sauce the entree in the same way. Kernel of Veal a la Talleyrand Parboil and trim the kernels, then place them in a fricandeau or braising pan between thin layers of fat -bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise them gently for three-quarters of an hour) when done, put on a dish to cool, and mask each of them all over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p.- 3); when the sauce has become firmly set, dip each in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them carefully. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the kernels a golden colour, with clarified butter, in a deep stew-pan; drain, dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with a ragout composed of small slices of fat livers, truffles, mushrooms and cocks’ kernels, the whole of which must be tossed in good Allemande sauce; pour some thin Espagnole sauce (finished with some of the mirepoix) under the kernels, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Financiere Procure five or six bones of the best end of neck of veal, saw off the chine-bone and the upper end of the ribs, leaving the cutlet- bones about three inches long; then divide into cutlets, flatten these with a bat dipped in water, trim neatly, and lard the lean of the cutlets closely with bacon in the usual way. Next prepare the cutlets for braising in the same manner as directed for a fricandeau; about one hour and a quarter will suffice to braise them, when they must be nicely glazed, dished up with the larded part of the cutlet uppermost, and the centre of the entree filled with a rich Financifere ragout (see p. 44); pour some of the sauce round the cutlets, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Dreux These should be cut rather thicker than usual, but neither flattened nor trimmed; they must be interlarded or studded through the lean part with pieces of red tongue or ham, and black truffles about an inch long and a quarter of an inch in depth and thickness; these must be placed in a braising-pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered with thin layers of fat bacon, some mace, four cloves, twelve peppercorns, and a bouquet garni in the centre, and the whole again covered with thin layers of bacon ; moisten with a glass of sherry and as much good stock as will cover the cutlets, and set them to braise on a slow fire for about one hour and a half, with the lid on. When done, allow them partially to cool in their own liquor. Then put them in press between two dishes, and when cold, let them be trimmed neatly, so as to show the truffle and tongue- studding. They should next be placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze, made from their own liquor, and put away in the larder. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to warm through, then place them on the fire to glaze; dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some thin Espagnole sauce round, and serve.