THE MODERN COOK 43° in a fancy mould; turn out of the mould on to a dish, and garnish appropriately before serving. Note.—The centre of this pudding may be filled with apricot jam or orange marmalade. Iced Pudding a la Prince Albert Prepare about a pint of rice custard ice as directed for the pudding a la Cintra (see p. 428). Slice up six or eight ripe apricots, and boil them with two or three ounces of sugar and half a pint of water until the fruit is dissolved; then pass it through a sieve,—if too thick, add a little thin syrup,—then freeze as usual. The two ices being ready, a fancy pudding mould should be lined with a coating of apricot-water ice, about half an inch thick, and the centre filled up entirely with the iced rice-custard; cover the pudding with the lid of the mould, and stand it in ice and freezing salt until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on a dish, and served immediately. Iced Pudding a la Parisienne Blanch and peel three ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter, wash and dry them on a cloth, and then thoroughly pound them with two ounces of sugar in a mortar until they become a soft paste; add this to two yolks of eggs, half pint of milk, and half a pint of cream; stir the whole together in a stew-pan over the fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, and then pass through a tammy or fine sieve in the same manner as a puree. Then freeze as usual in a fancy pudding mould. The pudding must then be placed on a dish, and the top garnished with a compote of apricots; mix a glass of noyau in with the syrup, pour it over the pudding, and serve. Iced Pudding a la Duchess Peel four ounces of filbert kernels and pound them with two ounces of sugar (adding a few drops of rose or orange water) until they become soft and pulpy; put the mixture into a basin, add a pint of cream, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a tammy or fine sieve; then freeze this in the usual manner. While the above is being prepared, a pint of cherry-water ice must be made as follows:—Remove the stalks from a pound of cherries and pound them thoroughly in a mortar, then put them into a sugar- boiler, add three ounces of sugar, and boil the whole together over a brisk fire for five minutes; rub this through a hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze it, adding a little thin syrup if necessary. Use the cherry-water ice to line the pudding mould with, garnish the centre with the filbert-cream ice, cover the mould with its lid, and stand the pudding in crushed ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be turned out on a dish, and served immediately.