THE MODERN COOK 362 Tunny Fish The tunny is a kind of fish which resembles the cod ; it is usually obtained preserved or marinaded in oil. The flesh is very firm, has a delicate flavour, and looks very much like cooked veal; it makes a highly esteemed hors-d’oeuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. To serve it, cut it into slices, arrange them on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another. Ornament the sides alter- nately with little heaps of chopped capers and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. Prawns in Savoury Jelly Line some small dariole moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly; when nearly set, sprinkle over some chopped lobster coral and chopped gherkins or olives. Place two or three picked prawns in each mould and fill up with aspic jelly. Put the moulds on the ice to get firm. Prepare as many fried bread croutons (round) as there are moulds, mask one side of each with green herb butter (beurre Montpellier). Turn out the moulds and place one in the centre of each croute. Dish up, and serve as hors-d’oeuvre or cold savoury. Anchovies The best and most suitable anchovies for hors-d’oeuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then drain them on a cloth, open them and take out the bones, and trim neatly. Dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Smoked Sardines Smoked sardines, also Royans and Kieller Sprotten, are of excellent flavour, which is caused by the process of smoking prior to being put in olive oil, which gives the fish a distinctive flavour. They may be served plain or treated similarly to ordinary sardines, for which a number of recipes are given. Herring Rolls Take 4 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 3 filleted anchovies, a pinch of cayenne, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 lemon, 1 £ oz. butter; parsley, beetroot, and gherkins for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours; fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones; cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillet into a mortar, together with the anchovies, and pound till smooth; add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter, season to taste (no salt) and mix thoroughly. Rub this through a fine sieve with a layer of this puree; roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely-chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon juice, garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon, gherkin, beetroot, and parsley. Serve cold.