347 VEGETABLES AND SALADS fat, moisten with the white sauce, and season to taste; then add the mushrooms finely chopped, and fill the artichokes with the puree thus obtained. Dip each into a light frying batter so as to completely cover or coat the artichokes, and fry them to a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon and fried parsley. Artichokes a l’ltalienne These are prepared in the manner described in the previous recipe, except that when about to finish them, Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) must be substituted for Espagnole. Asparagus with White Sauce Choose some asparagus of even size, if possible. Pick the loose leaves from the heads and scrape the stalks clean, wash them in a pan of cold water, and tie up in small bundles of about twelve in each, keeping all the heads turned the same way; cut the stalks evenly. Put the asparagus in hot water, with a little salt in it, to boil for about twenty minutes, and when tender, drain carefully upon a napkin to avoid breaking off the heads ; dish them up on a square thick piece of toasted bread dipped in the water they have been boiled in, and send to table with some white sauce or oiled butter separately in a sauce-boat. Asparagus=Points a la Creme Boil a pint of asparagus-points in plenty of salted boiling water; when done, drain in a colander, plunge in cold water for three minutes, and then drain them upon a sieve. Next place the asparagus-points in a stew-pan with a bunch of mint, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; put the lid on, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for ten minutes. Then remove the mint, and incorporate with the points a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream ; toss the points over the fire to set the liaison, and dish up in the form of a dome, with a border of fleurons, and serve. Asparagus Rolls Cook half a bundle of green asparagus tips or a bundle of sprue (asparagus) in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Next put them in a stew-pan with a few finely sliced mushrooms and two slices of ham or tongue, also cut into fine shreds. Blend with and mix with Bechamel or Velout£ sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and keep hot. Cut three to four very small dinner rolls in half, scoop out the crumby part of each half, and dry them crisp in the oven. Fill each roll with the above mixture, coat the top with white sauce, besprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese. Place a small piece of butter in the centre, and put in a hot oven long enough to brown the surface. Dish up on a folded napkin, and send to table hot.