ENTRIES OF MUTTON 247 Mutton Cutlets a la Milanaise In this case the bread-crumbs used for crumbing the cutlets must be mixed with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; in other respects they are to be egged and bread-crumbed as before. When about to send to table the cutlets should be fried a golden colour, glazed, and dished up; and the centre garnished with some macaroni, finished with grated Parmesan cheese, and a tablespoonful of Bechamel, or any other white sauce ; pour some Proven^ale sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Bretonne These are prepared and finished in the same way as cutlets gar- nished with a puree of mushrooms, with this exception, that the centre must be filled with small potatoes previously scooped in the form of olives, and fried in butter a golden colour; pour some Bretonne sauce under the cutlets, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Macedoine Prepare these in the same way as the previous recipe, and when they are dished up, garnish the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35); pour some half-glaze round the base of the entrde, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a l’lndienne Bread-crumb, fry, glaze, and dish up the cutlets; then garnish the centre with some plain boiled rice well drained; pour some Mango sauce over the cutlets, and serve. The Mango sauce here alluded to is thus made:—Split a fine mango, and let the inside be kept back in a small stew-pan; cut the outside part into narrow strips, and again mince these into shreds, or thin slices, and place them in the stew-pan ; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce, boil the whole together for five minutes, and serve. Mutton Cutlets with Puree of Chestnuts These, when dished up, should be garnished with a puree of chestnuts (see p. 28), and some thin Espagnole poured round them, then serve. Note.—Bread-crumbed cutlets may be served with every sort of vegetable garnish described in this work, and with all the sauces directed to be served with plain cutlets. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise Trim the best end of a neck of mutton in the way described for plain cutlets; the neck must then be cut up into thick cutlets, and placed on a dish without being further trimmed. Next cut four ounces of fat bacon into narrow strips, about the sixth of an inch square, and an inch and a half long, and with these the cutlets should be larded in the following manner:—Take a medium-sized larding-needle, and run it half through the lean of the cutlet; then place a strip of bacon in the open end, and draw the larding-pin