288 THE MODERN COOK for boiling in the usual manner, being covered with thin layers of fat bacon to protect the skin from breaking; place in a stew-pan with the customary vegetables, etc., moisten with white stock and set them to braise very gently on a slow fire—care must be taken to prevent their boiling fast, as in that case the quenelle would burst the skins. When done, dish up with an ornamental fried bread croustade in the centre of the dish; garnish with small groups of glazed truffles, cocks’- combs, and button-mushrooms, and at each end place a larded sweetbread; sauce with some Cardinal sauce, and serve. Chicken a 1’AIIemande These must be trussed and boiled as usual, and when done, dished up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), first poached, then covered with fried bread-crumbs, and placed round the chickens; sauce with a rich Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and send to table. Chicken a l’lndienne Truss two spring chickens for boiling, lard the breasts closely, and place in a conveniently sized stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; add some good stock in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper over the chickens, and having put the lid on the stew-pan, set them to braise gently with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid of the pan : about forty minutes will suffice to do them. Then remove the paper, and after drying the larding in the oven for a minute or two, glaze the chickens nicely, dish them up, garnish with a border of rice croquettes formed in the shape of eggs, sauce round with some Madeira sauce, and serve. Chicken a 1’Africaine Prepare the chickens in the same way as for h la Cardinal, and detach the skins in the same manner; fill up the interstices between the skin and fillets with some force-meat of fowl; the chickens must then be trussed as for boiling, and after being covered with thin layers of fat bacon, should be braised, and when done, dished up side by side. Garnish with alternate groups of very small quenelles, half of which must be coloured with chopped truffles and the remainder with lobster coral; sauce with a Financiere ragofit (see p. 44), in a Poivrade sauce, and serve. Chicken a la Turque These must be trussed, boiled, and dished up as usual; they should then be garnished with a close border of rice boiled in stock with a little saffron and cayenne pepper; pour a lightly seasoned Curry sauce (see p. 12) over the chickens, and serve. Chicken a l’Espagnole Truss two spring chickens as for boiling, then take a deep fricandeau pan, spread it thickly with butter, and lay in circular order half-a-dozen pieces of raw ham cut in the shape and about