EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 377 a wire-sieve upon this, and so on, repeating the same until the whole is used up, finishing with the yolks of eggs, resembling vermicelli. Put the eggs in the oven to bake a golden colour, and then serve. Egg Timbales a la Cardinal (Cold) Four hard-boiled eggs, £ large lobster with spawn, 1 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 gill Mayonnaise, £ pint aspic, anchovy essence, tomato cream. Line eight small timbale moulds with aspic jelly; when set, pour a thin layer of tomato cream stiffened with aspic in the bottom of each mould. Cut the eggs into quarter-inch-thick slices, remove the yolks, and range the whites in the timbale-moulds with alternate layers of aspic. Pound the lobster in a mortar, heat up the spawn with the butter, and add to the lobster. When finely pounded rub all through a sieve, add the Mayonnaise flavoured with a little anchovy essence, and enough aspic to stiffen the mixture when cold. Remove the aspic in the centre of each timbale mould, and fill the cavities with the prepared lobster mousse. Place on the ice to set, then turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish to taste, and serve Fried Eggs au Beurre Noir Put two ounces of butter into an omelet-pan over the fire : as soon as it begins to get hot, break five to six eggs into it, without breaking the yolks; season with pepper and salt, fry the eggs over the fire for five minutes, and then remove gently on to a dish. Next put one ounce more butter into the pan, fry it brown, then add two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar, boil the whole together for two minutes, pour over the eggs, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles Six eggs, 11 oz. butter, 1 large truffle, J glass Marsala, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted bread. Cut the truffle into fine shreds; put in a stew-pan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter; cover and reduce the liquid to about half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then add the truffle, etc., quickly. Mix well together; stir over the fire for another minute; then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast; dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve. Note.—Cooked ham, tongue, mushrooms, peas, asparagus-points, etc., may be used as a change in place of the truffles, but for cooked vegetables the wine should be omitted and replaced with cream. Scrambled Eggs k la Turque Break six to eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well and stir into a stew-pan containing an ounce of melted butter; stir over the fire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them in