SIDE-DISHES 365 pour out the liquid, and fill the melon with stiffly whipped cream seasoned with a little salt and a liberal dose of paprika. Dish up, replace the top portion of the melon, and keep on the ice till required to be served. Diables k Cheval (Devils on Horseback) Flatten out nine or ten thinly cut rashers of bacon and trim each neatly. Stone the same number of best French plums, insert in the place a peeled Jordan almond, previously tossed in oil or butter, and highly seasoned with paprika, salt, and cayenne. Next roll each plum in a slice of bacon, skewer them, and grill over a bright fire for about six minutes, turning them frequently. Serve the rolls on silver skewers, on neatly cut slices of toasted bread or fried crofitons,. arranged on a round or oval flat dish. Anchovy Crofites Cut out six to eight oblong slices of bread and fry to a golden colour in hot butter, drain and let cool, then spread one side of each with anchovy butter; put half a stoned olive in the centre of each and coil round it a fillet of anchovy. Cream a little butter, put it in a cornet, and ornament the edges of the crofites. Garnish further with chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, and chopped gherkins. Dish up and serve. Anchovy Pasties Scrape, wipe, and bone ten Gorgona anchovies ; roll out some short paste or remnants of puff paste, enclose each fish neatly in the paste, and trim. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne pepper over each; bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve. Anchovy Biscuits Pound the fillets of six anchovies in a mortar with an ounce of butter, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies ; rub through a sieve, spread some round or oblong water biscuits with the paste, place them in the oven to get quite hot; garnish the tops with strips of filleted anchovies and capers; dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. Sardine Canapes Cut some slices of bread into finger shapes, and fry them in butter to a nice golden colour. Bone twenty-four sardines, pound half the quantity in a mortar with an ounce of butter and two yolks of eggs ; season with pepper, mustard, chopped chives, parsley, and tarragon; spread the mixture over the fried bread. Lay one of the remaining sardines on each finger, place in the oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with crayfish tails, slices of gherkins and pickled beetroot, and serve.