DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL *35 oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about five minutes. Decorate the top of each with a few fancifully cut slices of glazed truffle. Dish up tastefully and serve hot. Fillets of Soles a la Catalane Trim and pare eight to twelve fillets of soles, fold them neatly and place them in a sautd-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, and form into a border placed in a hot dish ; dress the fillets upon this. Fill the centre with ckpes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the fillets with a well-reduced Bechamel sauce (p. 3), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incorporated. Fillets of Soles a la Diocletien Fillets of soles, stuffed with fish quenelle force-meat, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised) and very small fish quenelles (poached). Serve with a sauce composed of rich Espagnole, fish liquor, and finely chopped truffles. Fillets of Soles a la Marcelle Fillet two soles, trim them and spread over one side of each with champignon or d’Uxelle puree, fold them and poach in fish stock. Dress them on a round dish in border form, sauce over with Truffle sauce (see p. 7), garnish with Anna potatoes (see p. 468) in centre. Serve hot. Fillets of Soles, Whitebait Style Skin and fillet one large or two medium-sized soles; shred the fillets as finely as possible or cut them into fine strips the size of whitebait. Put them on a cloth, and sprinkle over with flour, shake well, and put them in a frying-basket. Heat up the fat, plunge the basket with about half the quantity of fish into the hot fat, and fry over a quick fire to a pale-golden colour. Take up, drain well, season with salt and cayenne, and proceed to fry the remainder of fish in exactly the same manner. Dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Fillets of Soles a la Normande This is done in the same way as above directed. The soles are folded and dished up in a row, one overlapping the other, and a mushroom-head placed on each fillet. The mussels and oysters are placed in groups round the sides of the fillets. Scallops are in some cases used as garnish, but only when mussels are not obtainable. If smelts are in season, this dish should be garnished with a few fried smelts in addition to the other garnishes.