THE MODERN COOK 418 eighth part of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner-plate; wet this round the edge, then fasten a rolled cord of paste, the thickness of a small finger, within an inch of the edge, and pile the prepared apples up in the centre in the form of a dome, spread some apricot marmalade over the surface, and cover the whole in with another round of puff paste; press both together round the edges, wet the extremities, then with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand twist or fold the edges over in the form of a cord. Brush over the turnover with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, then sprinkle some rough granite sugar over the egg, and bake a light-fawn colour. These turnovers may also be made with all kinds of plums, the only difference in the mode of preparation being that they need not undergo any cooking before being placed in the paste: but the stones should be removed; the plums, peaches, or apricots must be piled up in several rows forming a dome, with some castor sugar between each layer, and some of the same kind of fruit the turnover is made of should be boiled down to a jam, for the purpose of masking the fruit preparatory to its being covered in by the puff paste. Darioles Ingredients : i oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 gill cream, 1 whole egg and 2 yolks, 1 oz. candied orange flowers, a small pat butter, a very little salt, ^ lb. puff paste. Put the flour, sugar, crushed ratafias, and the eggs in a spouted basin, work the whole well together, and then add the cream, a very little salt, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and mix these in with the batter. Line a dozen dariole moulds with some trimmings of puff paste, place these on a baking-sheet, put a very small bit of butter at the bottom of each dariole, and then, after stirring the batter well together, pour it into the moulds; strew the candied orange flowers on the top of each, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, the darioles should be slightly raised in the centre, and of a light-fawn colour; take them out of the moulds without breaking them, shake some finely sifted sugar over, and serve hot. Darioles may also be flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or chocolate. Conde Cakes Chop three ounces of sweet almonds as finely as possible, mix them with four ounces of sifted sugar, some grated rind of lemon, and the white of an egg into a rather stiff paste. Next make four to six ounces of puff paste, to which give eight turns or foldings, and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; then with a cutter of an oval, circular, crescent, diamond, or any other fancy shape, stamp out about a dozen condes and put them on a baking-sheet previously wetted over with a paste-brush ; coat with the prepared chopped almonds, etc., dredge over some fine sugar, and bake a light-fawn colour.