ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°7 cover entirely with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bread-crumbed twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after being dipped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imitate the bones of cutlets, and place the fillets carefully in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter. Just before sending to table, fry the fillets lightly on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables, asparagus peas, French beans, or stewed peas; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcases of the pigeons) round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a la Borghese Trim the fillets of two or more pigeons, insert the cutlet-bone in each, as in the previous recipe, and put them on a dish; next bone the carcases of the pigeons, remove the skin and sinews from the flesh, and make some quenelle force-meat (see p. 59). Season the fillets of pigeons with a little pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with a coating of the force-meat, thus increasing their size about one-half; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with some clarified butter, put in the fillets, and cover them with some clarified butter, which, however, should not be poured over them until it has become nearly cold. About a quarter of an hour before sending to table, place the stew-pan upon a rather brisk fire, and allow the fillets to simmer quickly; and when done on both sides, drain, and glaze them brightly; dish up in close circular order, in the same way as cutlets, pour some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) round the base of the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a la Bourguignote Prepare these in the same way as before, and when about to send to table, simmer them briskly over the fire, and when done, drain, glaze, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Bourguignote ragout (see p. 45), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a l’Allemande Prepare these exactly as before, and when the fillets have been well simmered, so as to become firmly set before being cooked through, they must be immediately removed on to a dish, and after being dipped in some light batter, should be fried crisp in hot fat; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a puree of green peas, artichokes, or asparagus, with either a Jardiniere or Macedoine, stewed peas or dressed young Windsor beans; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcases) under the entree, and serve. Duck a la Macedoine Truss a duck for boiling, and put into an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with a quart of white stock, cover with an oval piece of well-buttered paper,