225 ORNAMENTAL POTATO BORDERS with slices of red tongue cut in the form of cocks’ combs, placed alternately round the inner edge of the casserole, glaze it lightly, and serve. Note.—Casseroles or Borders of rice may also be garnished with fricassee of chicken, lamb’s-feet, blanquette of sweetbread or fowl, and with all kinds of scallops, whether of poultry, game, or fish. ORNAMENTAL POTATO BORDERS Potato Border with Larks and Truffles A border of potato paste resembles in a great measure a casserole of rice, and is prepared as follows :— For an ordinary size entree six to eight medium-sized potatoes should be baked, and their pulp afterwards rubbed through a fine wire-sieve upon a dish ; this must be put into a middle-sized stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture becomes a smooth, firm paste; it should then be rolled into a ball, placed on a baking-sheet, and shaped to the desired requirement. The border should now be moulded in the same way as a casserole of rice, and executed with a piece of raw carrot or turnip, cut in the form of a chisel. When the border is moulded, it should be brushed over with beaten egg, and baked in an oven a light-yellow colour; when done, part of the inside must be removed, and the cavity smoothed over with the back of the bowl of a spoon. The border ought to be kept in a warm dry place till wanted for use. Fill it with a ragout of scallops of larks (see p. 47) and truffles, place a border of small quenelles of fowl round the edge, lightly glaze the border, pour a little of the sauce round the base, and serve. Potato Border with Ox=Palates a l’Indienne Prepare the ox-palates according to the directions contained on p. 219, add enough well-reduced Indian Curry sauce for the entree, warm the ragout, and fill the border with it just before sending to table. Some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. Potato Border garnished with Scallops of Sheep’s Tongues and Fine Herbs Scald two or three sheep’s tongues thoroughly so as to be able to remove the outer skin easily; then trim them, and afterwards put them into a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and half-a-dozen peppercorns; moisten with a pint of stock, and set them to cook gently for about an hour. When done, drain them on a dish, and put them in the larder to get cold, afterwards to be cut into neat round slices ; put these into a stew-pan with two dozen prepared button-mushrooms, and enough well-reduced Q