337 ROASTS the pheasant clean, and then truss it in the following manner:— Place the pheasant upon its breast, run a trussing-needle and string through the left pinion, then turn the bird over on its back, and place the thumb and forefinger of the left hand across the breast, holding the legs erect; thrust the needle through the middle joint of both thighs, draw it out and then pass it through the other pinion, and fasten the strings at the back; next pass the needle through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs, thrust it again through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly: this will give an appearance of plumpness. Roast the pheasant before a brisk fire or in the oven for about half an hour, frequently basting it; when done, send to table with brown gravy under, and Bread sauce (see p. 19) separately in a sauce-boat. Roast Partridges These should be trussed, roasted, and served in the same manner as pheasants. Sometimes, for the sake of variety, both pheasants and partridges are larded in the same way as sweetbreads, but this custom is rarely practised. Roast Quails, Messina Style Truss six to eight quails for roasting, pour a dessertspoonful of brandy and truffle essence into each bird, and place them in a roast- ing-pan; put a little butter on top of each, and roast for fifteen minutes. Have ready the same number of oranges as birds; cut these into basket shapes, scoop out some of the pulp, and reduce it with half a pint of Madbre sauce. Place the quails into the orange shapes and dish up; garnish with water-cress and lemon, and serve with the pre- pared sauce. Note.—This dish can be served with Cognac brandy poured round the base of the dish, which is lighted as it is sent to table. Roast Quails Draw and truss these in the same manner as pheasants; cut some thin square slices of fat bacon just large enough to cover a quail, spread a vine leaf over each of these, cut it to their size, and then tie them neatly on the breasts of the quails. Roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, then dish up, garnish round with water-cress, glaze the slices of bacon, pour some gravy under the quails, and serve. Ruffs and Reeves These birds must not be drawn, neither do they require much trussing, being very plump; a small skewer should be run through the thighs and pinions, with a string passed round it, and fastened; then cover with a layer of bacon and a vine leaf, and roast them before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter, and set some toasted bread under to receive the droppings. When done, dish up on square pieces of the toast, garnish with water-cress, pour some gravy under them, and serve. Ortolans are served in the same manner as the above. z