THE MODERN COOK 278 Fillets of Roebuck a la Kinnaird Cut out the fillets from a small neck of roebuck, trim these neatly, and lard them closely; steep them for about two days and nights in some cold marinade (see p. 57), and when about to dress the fillets, drain and place them in a saute-pan spread with butter, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding; place a buttered paper on the top, and put them to braise in the oven; baste frequently with their own liquor, and when done, glaze them nicely and place them on a dish; garnish with groups of quenelles made with roebuck, and small potatoes cut in the form of large olives and fried in clarified butter; pour some Neapolitan sauce (see p. 16) under the entree, glaze the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Roebuck with Poivrade Sauce These are prepared in the same manner as before; when done and glazed, dish up with a border of potatoes, cut in the form of olives and fried in clarified butter, pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under them, and serve. Civet of Roebuck is prepared in the same way as civet of hare (see p. 319). ENTREES OF POULTRY Fricassee of Chicken with Mushrooms Procure a plump, tender chicken, and after it has been drawn, singe it over heat, and then cut up into small joints in the following manner:—First, remove the wings at the second joint, and the legs at the knotty bend of the first joint; then take hold of the chicken with the left hand, and with a sharp knife make two parallel cuts lengthwise on the back, about an inch and a half apart, so as partly to detach or at least to mark out where the legs and wings are to be removed; the chicken must next be placed upon its side on the table, and after the leg and fillet (with the pinion left on the upper side) have been cut, the same must be repeated on the other, and the thigh-bones must be removed. Then separate the back and breast, turn these without waste, and cut the back across into two pieces; steep the joints of fowl in a basin of tepid water for about ten minutes. Next strew the bottom of a stew-pan with a thinly- sliced carrot, onion, and a stick of celery, three cloves, twelve peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a bouquet garni; place the pieces of chicken in neat order upon the vegetables, etc., moisten with a little stock or water; cover with the lid, and set the whole to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, when the chicken will be done. The joints must then be drained on a wire- sieve, and the liquor reserved in a basin; next plunge the pieces of chicken in cold water, wash and drain, and afterwards trim neatly and place in a stew-pan in the larder. Put two ounces of butter to