THE MODERN COOK 5IQ Hock Cup Rub two ounces of sugar on to the thinly pared rind of two lemons, pound it, and place it in a bowl with the strained juice, a liqueur-glassful each of curacao and chartreuse, and a quart of iced hock. Stir well, add two bottles of iced soda-water, and serve. Sauterne Cup One bottle of Sauterne, one pint of Vichy water, two oranges sliced, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter it. Moselle Cup One bottle of sparkling Moselle, a bottle of soda-water, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, two oranges sliced, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method : Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter it free from the herbs, etc. Zeltlinger Cup Rub one ounce of lump-sugar on to the rind of a lemon, pound it, and put it into a bowl with the strained juice, two slices of pine- apple, a gill of sherry, and a bottle of Zeltlinger. Let it stand on ice for an hour, and before serving add a bottle of iced soda-water. Marsala Cup Rub two ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of two lemons, pound it, and place in a jug; add the strained juice, six large ripe strawberries, a sprig of borage, a bottle of iced Marsala, and a bottle of iced seltzer water. Strawberry Cup Rub some ripe strawberries through a hair-sieve, and put a pint of this puree into a jug. Add a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, a bottle of white wine, six whole strawberries, and sugar to taste, and let it stand in ice for an hour before using. Pine-Apple Cup Eight ounces of pine-apple sliced very thin, one bottle of iced A'i wine, a sprig of verbena, a wine-glassful of maraschino, a bottle of iced soda-water, two ounces of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place the slices of pine-apple, the verbena, the maraschino, and the sugar-candy in a glass jug, and afterwards mix in the iced wine and soda-water. Chablis Cup One bottle of Chablis, two bottles of soda-water, one small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one orange sliced, two ounces of crushed sugar-candy.