242 THE MODERN COOK the sauce from the dish with a knife, and spread it upon the attereaux to give them a square, smooth form. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, and again bread-crumbed. Half an hour before sending to table, fry the attereaux in clean hot fat; dish up neatly with fried parsley placed in the centre, and serve. Ox=Palates in Cases with Fine Herbs Prepare some small circular scallops of ox-palates, put them into a stew-pan ; add nearly half a pint of reduced Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), mix, and fill some small square or plaited circular paper cases, previously oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes; cover with a layer of browned bread-crumbs, and place upon a baking-sheet covered with clean paper. About half an hour before sending to table put these cases in the oven to bake, or rather warm through, and then dish up on a folded napkin, with fried parsley round the base of the entree, and serve. Beef Marrow a la Ravigote Procure about four ounces of beef marrow, steep in water for a couple of hours, wash thoroughly, and then carefully remove the membranous covering, and change the water. Next slice up an onion and a small carrot very finely, and put into a stew-pan with a pint of hot water, mignonette pepper, and salt, a little thyme and bay leaf, three cloves and a blade of mace, and a tablespoonful of vinegar; boil the liquor on the fire, drop in the pieces of marrow and allow them to boil gently for ten minutes; then set aside to cool. Drain, and then place them in a basin with a few sprigs of parsley, a sliced shalot, some mignonette pepper, and salt, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and one of vinegar. The marrow must be left to steep in this pickle till within about ten minutes of dinner-time, when they must be drained and dipped in batter, and fried in clean hot fat. Dish up with fried parsley, and send some Ravigote sauce in a boat, to be handed round. To save trouble, the marrow when fried may be dished up without a napkin or fried parsley, and the sauce poured under them. But in this case, unless they are eaten as soon as dished up, the vapour arising from the sauce destroys much of their crispness. Note.—Beef marrow, when fried according to the foregoing direc- tions, may also be served with any of the following sauces, viz.: Piquante, Poivrade, Italian, Tomato, etc. Beef Marrow in Cases with Fine Herbs Prepare some marrow according to the directions contained in the previous recipe. Drain, cut into inch lengths, and place in a small stew-pan with about half a pint of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); mix together, and put into small square or round paper cases, the surfaces of which are strewn with fried bread-crumbs, and then placed upon a clean baking-sheet. About twenty minutes before sending to