470 THE MODERN COOK the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board, use grated cheese in place. When rolling out for the last time, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut the paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a quarter in diameter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Anna Potatoes Cut sufficient potatoes into thin slices to fill a timbale or Anna potato mould; wash, drain, and dry. Allow three ounces of butter to each pound of potatoes. Grease the mould, and arrange a layer of potatoes, the slices to overlap each other ; place over some of the butter and a little seasoning. Arrange the layers of potatoes, butter, and seasoning until the mould is full. Cover and cook for thirty minutes. Turn out, drain off the superfluous butter, and dish up the mould. Anna potatoes may also be arranged in small timbale or dariole moulds and served as garnishes. Welsh Rarebit Cut into slices two ounces Cheddar cheese; put it in a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of milk or beer. Stir over the fire till melted, and pour over hot buttered toast; range on a hot dish, sprinkle over with a little cayenne pepper, and serve quickly. Cardoons Cardoons are prepared and cooked similar to celery. Rissoles Take about half a pound of trimmings of puff paste; give it three turns or folds; roll it out to the thickness of a penny-piece; place some small balls of croquette meat mixture at distances of about two inches from each other. Moisten the paste round these with a brush dipped in water; fold the flap to the front part of the paste over the balls ; press all round them with the edge of the thumb; cut them out with a round tin cutter, and, as you do so, place the rissoles upon a floured dish. When a sufficient number have been thus cut out, fry the rissoles in hot fat, drain, and serve. Veal-Stuffing To half a pound of bread-crumbs add four ounces of chopped suet and two whole eggs ; season with chopped parsley, thyme, marjoram, and shalot (the last three in very small quantities), nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix well together, and use this stuffing as directed. Caramel Cream Six oz. castor sugar, pts. milk, ^ pt. cream, i oz. gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, i lemon.