THE MODERN COOK 466 some rice as for a rice cake, which must be made rather stiff, and packed into a plain border mould ; when this is done, turn out the border on to its dish, and arrange the pears upright thereon in a circular row, and masked all over with diluted apricot jam ; on the stalk end place a Mirabelle plum, and through this a piece of green angelica, so as to form the stalk ; fill the centre with some of the rice (reserved for this purpose), mixed with an equal quantity of whipped cream, at the summit of which a plume of green angelica must be stuck. Iced Souffle with Maraschino Ingredients : ^ pt. clarified syrup, 4 yolks of eggs and 2 whole eggs, 1 large wine-glassful maraschino. Mix the whole of the ingredients in a basin; then pour the preparation into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed with hot water and wiped dry; whisk the souffle briskly over moderate heat until it resembles a well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter, then add about half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Next fill a souffle dish-lining with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, and secure a band of stout paper round the case with string to prevent the souffle from flowing over. Next put the souffle in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid and set the box on crushed ice mixed with freezing salt, a wet cloth being placed over the top; leave it to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served. Before sending the souffle to table, remove the band of paper, and sift some macaroon powder or grated chocolate over the surface in order to give it the appearance of a baked souffle. Iced Souffle au Cafe This is prepared in exactly the same manner as the above, sub- stituting either an infusion of coffee made with milk or a small cup of very strong coffee, made in the ordinary way, for the maraschino. These souffles may be greatly varied by altering the flavour, using for that purpose any kind of liqueur, orange-flower water, vanilla, orange, lemon, etc. Biscuits daces The preparations described in the preceding recipes serve equally for this purpose—small, square, oblong, or round paper cases being filled with the same, placed in a tin or zinc box made expressly for such purposes, and then set on ice until wanted for the table. La Spongada di Roma Ingredients : i pt. clarified syrup, 2 oz. dissolved chocolate, I tablespoonful vanilla syrup, an equal quantity cinnamon sugar, II oz. shred pistachios, 2 oz. Diavolini or ginger comfits, 2 or 3 whites of eggs. Mix together the syrup, dissolved chocolate, whites of eggs, and vanilla and cinnamon sugars; and, when these are well mixed, strain through a sieve, and pour into the ice-cave previously set with ice,