THE MODERN COOK 74 Puree of Green Split Peas Follow the foregoing instructions, taking care, however, to sub- stitute green split peas for yellow. When the puree is ready, in order to give it as much as possible the appearance of having been made with green peas, mix in with it a few drops of extract of spinach,1 adding one ounce of butter and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Serve separately some mint in powder, and Conde crusts on plates. Puree of Red Haricot Beans Take one pint of red haricot beans, and having put them to soak overnight, drain off the water on the following morning; put the beans into a sauce-pan with one carrot, one stick of celery, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a knuckle of raw ham; add three pints of good stock, and set the whole on the stove-fire to simmer gently for about three or four hours. Then remove the carrot, celery, onion, and the ham ; drain off the stock from the beans, and pound them in a mortar, after which place them in a stew-pan, add the stock, and then pass the puree through the tammy-cloth or sieve in the usual manner ; it should then be poured into a sauce-pan, and if too thick to clarify, a little stock should be added; stir it over the fire until it boils, and then remove it to the side of the stove to continue gently boiling until it becomes bright: all the scum must be carefully removed while boiling. Finish the soup by adding one ounce of fresh butter and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Conde crusts should be handed round with this soup. Purde of White Haricot Beans is made like the preceding, except that white haricot beans must be substituted for red ; moreover, in finishing this puree, in addition to the butter and sugar, one or two tablespoonfuls of cream should be poured in. Serve with Conde crusts on a plate. Puree of Lentils a la Reine Take half a pint of reddish-brown lentils, prepare them exactly as described for the treatment of red haricot beans in making that puree; finish also in a similar manner, and serve with Conde crusts. Puree of Lentils a la Soubise This is made like the foregoing, but there must be added a purde of one or two large onions, prepared in the following manner:— Slice up the onions, fry them brown in a little butter, adding to them 1 Extract of Spinach is thus prepared : Wash and pound in a mortar a sufficient quantity of spinach for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy appearance ; turn it out upon a kitchen cloth, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up and held in the left hand by two persons, who must take care to fold the extremity of the cloth firmly round the handle of a wooden spoon, which will give them a strong purchase, acting as a windlass, and will enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to squeeze out all the moisture of the spinach. To receive this extract, a stew-pan should be placed ready ; it should be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and must be put upon a hair-sieve to drain off any remaining watery particles. Work the spinach-green through the sieve with a spoon, and this will form the extract.