THE MODERN COOK 24 Green Mayonnaise Sauce Blanch a dessertspoonful of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and parsley; extract the water therefrom; pass the Ravigote (see p. 19), thus produced through a sieve, and proceed to incorporate it with half a pint of Mayonnaise prepared according to the foregoing instructions. This sauce is usually coloured with spinach-green (see p. 74). Red or Coral Mayonnaise Sauce Pound one ounce of lobster coral, pass it through a sieve, and mix it in with half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce; add a little cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of mustard. This sauce should be used exclusively for lobster and fish salads. Aspic Jelly Take two quarts of good veal stock, four ounces leaf gelatine, the rind and juice of two lemons, a gill of white wine, half a gill of tarragon vinegar, a bouquet garni, one small onion sliced, eighteen peppercorns, a blade of mace, half a stick of celery, a small carrot sliced, a little salt, and the whites and shells of three eggs. Remove every trace of fat from the stock. Put all the ingredients except the wine into a large stew-pan. Whisk over the fire until the contents come just up to boiling point. Remove the whisk, and let the jelly boil for two or three minutes. Then add the wine. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and leave to simmer for ten to fifteen minutes by the side of the fire, so that the solid ingredients may settle. Next, pour it into a jelly-bag, prepared in the usual way by pouring through some boiling water, and keep pouring the jelly through the bag for a few minutes, when it will become perfectly bright; then allow it to run into the basin until the whole has passed. Pour the aspic into a basin and set aside to become firm. Care should be taken throughout the process to avoid adding any ingredient to the aspic that would be likely to prevent it from becoming a pale straw colour 3 half may be coloured a darker shade, if desired, by adding a few drops of caramel or browning.1 Mayonnaise Aspic Set a round-bottomed basin in some crushed ice; place in it half a pint of light-coloured aspic jelly, a little pepper and salt, a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Whip this mixture quickly with a whisk, adding from time to time some oil and vinegar in the same proportions as previously directed; by whipping briskly you will find the sauce assume a white smooth appearance; add a little lemon juice to whiten it, and some chopped tarragon and chervil, or, if preferred, this sauce may be used without the latter. This 1 Caramel.—This is made by heating some sugar in a small copper pan and allowing it to boil down gradually, over a slow fire, until it becomes a very dark brown in colour ; some cold water must then be added to melt the caramel, and after it has boiled up it should be kept in a small bottle for use.