BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, ETC. 171 eaten while hot; but if intended to be eaten cold, the beef should remain in the brine at least a fortnight, by which time only it can be expected to have sufficiently absorbed the flavour of the herbs and spices. The foregoing instructions apply equally to every kind of salted meat. Stewed Brisket of Beef a la Flamande Take three to four pounds of fresh brisket of beef, and remove the breast-bone; place it on the drainer of a large braising-pan, garnish with two carrots, onions, a stick of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the beef. Set the pan to boil gently for about two to two and a half hours ; when done, drain, glaze it well, and put it in the oven to dry, and glaze it again ; then place the brisket of beef on its dish, garnish it round with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes, and glazed onions; sauce the beef round with a well-finished Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Briskets of beef prepared in the foregoing manner may also be sent to table in every variety of method described for the preparation of rolls of beef, as well as rumps and fillets—in their various forms. Aitchbone of Beef & l’Anglaise Procure three to four pounds of aitchbone of beef, and salt it in the usual manner, by rubbing the salt well into the meat; repeat this operation every morning during four days, and then be careful that the beef is turned over in its brine every morning for seven successive days; by this time the aitchbone of beef will be ready for use. Next put it on in cold water, with a couple of carrots and turnips in the pot, and set it to boil gently for about two hours; when done, drain it, trim and dish it up, and surround it with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, and small suet dumplings; pour gravy under the beef, and send to table. Boiled Round of Beef a l’Anglaise Follow the foregoing directions in every particular (observing that a round of beef should remain ten days in the brine, and that the time it will require for boiling must necessarily vary, according to the weight of meat); in fact, garnish it with the same sort of vegetables as directed to be used for the aitchbone, and send it to table with some lightly seasoned Piquante sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Boiled Round of Beef a la Chasseur, or “Hunting Beef” Cure four to five pounds of round ofr beef according to the directions given for salting a brisket a l’Ecarlate; it will require a fortnight or three weeks thoroughly to impregnate the beef with the flavour of the herbs, spices, etc. When the round of beef is