EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 373 dish completely with sauce when finished dressing. Besprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, also a little oiled butter, and brown in the oven. Herring1 Roes a la Lucullus Eight soft roes of herring, J melon, 1 oz. butter, J oz. flour, 1 gill milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful Lucullus puree, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Butter eight china souffle cases. Poach the soft roes in seasoned milk. Mix the Lucullus puree with the cream, and season with paprika or Krona pepper. Put about a teaspoonful of this in each souffle case; next put a herring roe in each case. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir a little over the fire, then moisten with the milk, and work over the fire till it boils; stir in two egg yolks, season with salt and pepper, and lastly add the stiffly whisked white of one egg. Spread this mixture over the herring roes contained in the souffld cases, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Mushrooms on Toast Choose twelve mushrooms, cut off the root ends, peel them, dip in butter and grill them. Season with pepper and salt. Have ready twelve rounds of toasted bread a trifle larger than the mushrooms ; butter these well, place a thin slice of lemon on each, dress the mushrooms on them. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley or water-cress, and serve. EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES Eggs a la Tripe Boil four eggs hard, leave them in cold water for three minutes, take off the shells, then cut them in rather thick slices, and put into a stew-pan. Next cut two small onions in slices, separating the folds in rings; these must be first parboiled in water, and then after being boiled in white stock should be drained and placed with the eggs; add half a pint of good Bechamel sauce, a pinch of mignonette pepper, a little nutmeg, and a few drops of lemon juice. Toss the whole together over the fire, and when the eggs are quite hot, dish them up in a conical form; garnish with croutons or fleurons, and serve. Eggs au Gratin Boil three or four eggs hard, and when done, take off the shells, cut them in slices, and set them aside on a plate. Next put half a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan to boil over the fire, and when it is sufficiently reduced, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a small pat of butter, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, the yolk of an egg, and a few drops of lemon juice; stir this quickly over the fire until it begins to thicken, and then withdraw from the fire.