DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 117 appropriate in ornamenting this dish, but it is desirable not to use too many sorts of garnishes in the preparation of one dish. Send up at the same time some Genoise sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Cardinal Boil and skin three and a half to four pounds of salmon as directed in the first recipe of this section; cover it with a thin smooth coating of lobster quenelles; ornament it with a representa- tion of the scales of the fish by placing alternate rows of half-moons of truffle on its surface ; moisten with a glass of white wine and a pint of good broth; cover with a buttered paper, place the lid on the fish-kettle containing the salmon, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire for three-quarters of an hour. Then drain the salmon, place it in a dish on a croustade, and keep it warm till wanted. Meanwhile, reduce the liquor in which the salmon has been braised, and mix with it half a pint of Cardinal sauce (see p. 13); glaze the fish lightly and sauce it. Garnish it round with small groups of truffles, mushrooms, and quenelles of lobster. As usual, send up some of the sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Victoria Braise two pounds of salmon in a mirepoix (see p. 57) made with claret; when the fish is done, skin it, and place it on a low croustade on a dish. Then after taking the fat off the mirepoix, put one-third of it into a stew-pan, boil it down to a demi-glaze, and work it in with half a pint of brown sauce ; add a pat of anchovy butter, and a good' piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice; mix the whole well together, and pour the sauce over the salmon. Garnish it round with small groups of crayfish tails, fried fillets of smelts, and small quenelles of whiting. Send some of the sauce up to table in a boat. Salmon a la Marechale Boil two to three pounds of salmon in salt and water, skin and cover it with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and set it to cool in the larder; then shake some very fine bread-crumbs over it, and after fixing them on the sauce by gentle pressure with the blade of a knife, egg the salmon over with a paste-brush dipped in an egg beaten up with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; again shake some bread-crumbs ■ over it, smoothing them on the salmon with the blade of a knife; place the fish on a deep baking-dish, previously buttered for the purpose, moisten with a glass of white wine and half a pint of con- somme or some mirepoix. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put the salmon in the oven, and bake it to a deep-yellow or very light-brown colour; then place the salmon carefully on a dish, sauce it round with Crayfish or Supreme Dutch sauce, in which has been added an infusion of horse-radish, and garnish round with a border of twelve quenelles of gurnets or six fried smelts trussed as whitings are for frying.