DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL i37 Broiled Mackerel with Black Butter Sauce Broil the mackerel as directed in the last recipe, dish it up, garnish it with coarsely chopped parsley, and pour over it some Black Butter sauce (see p. 22). Fillets of Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel Fillet the mackerel thus:— Place the fish on the table with its back towards you, then run the knife in just below the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end of the fillet, and bearing with the blade of the knife upon the side of the back- bone, draw the knife gently down to the tail, then turn the mackerel over and take the fillet off the other side; when this is done cut each fillet into two, trim the ends neatly, and place them side by side in a buttered baking-dish, season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and then pour a teaspoonful of oiled butter over each, and cover with a round of buttered paper. About twenty minutes before dinner, either put them in the oven or over the fire to simmer, and when done, drain the fillets, dish them up in the form of a wreath, the fillets resting upon each other ; sauce over with some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), and send to fable. The soft roes, if any, in the mackerel, should be parboiled in boiling water containing a little vinegar and salt; then drain them on a napkin, and place them in the centre of the fillets when dished up. Fillets of mackerel, prepared as described in the first part of the above directions, may be sent to table with either of the following sauces: Vertpr£, Ravigote, Italienne, or Gdnoise. DRESSED MULLETS, Etc. Mullets in Cases with Fine Herbs Scale and trim four or five small mullets, place them in a buttered baking-dish; season with a little pepper and salt, cover them with a good gill of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), and moisten with a glass of sherry or white wine. About half an hour before dinner (the exact time depending on the size of the fish), put the mullets in the oven to bake, occasionally basting them with their own liquor. When done, put each of them separately in an oblong paper case saturated with oil, and then lightly browned in the oven ; add a glass of wine to the sauce remaining in the baking-tin, shake it about to detach the glaze from the sides, and then mix the whole with another gill of Fine Herbs sauce reserved for the purpose; reduce the whole, mix in a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon ; add a good teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, sauce the mullets over in their cases, dish them up, and send to table. Mullets may be dressed with fine herbs also in the following