THE MODERN COOK 94 of herbs intended to be used, winter savory, marjoram, and lemon- thyme in equal quantities making up the other two-thirds ; add to these a tablespoonful of parsley, two or three green onions, four to six green shalots, and some trimmings of mushrooms; moisten with a pint of broth, and having stewed these herbs for about an hour, rub the whole through a tammy or fine sieve into a pur£e. This pur^e being added to the soup, a pinch of cayenne pepper should then be introduced. The pieces of turtle as well as the fins, which have been also cut into small pieces and the larger bones taken out, should now be allowed to boil in the soup for a quarter of an hour, after which carefully remove the whole of the scum as it arises to the surface. Season carefully according to taste. To excel in dressing turtle it is necessary to be very accurate in the proportions of the numerous ingredients used for seasoning this soup. Nothing should predominate, but the whole should be har- moniously blended. Put the turtle away in basins, dividing the fat (after it has been scalded and boiled in some of the sauce) in equal quantities into each basin; as also some small quenelles, which are to be made with the fillets of hen reserved for that purpose, and in which, in addition to the usual ingredients in ordinary cases, put two yolks of eggs boiled hard. Mould these quenelles into small round balls to imitate turtles’ eggs, roll them with the hand on a marble slab or table with the aid of a little flour, and poach them in the usual way, When the turtle soup is wanted for use, warm it, and just before sending it to table add a small glass of sherry or Madeira, and the juice of one lemon to every four quarts of turtle. The second stock of the turtle consomme should be strained off after it has boiled for two hours, and immediately boiled down into a glaze very quickly, and mixed in with the turtle soup previous to putting it away in the basins; or else it should be kept in reserve for the purpose of adding proportionate quantities in each tureen of turtle as it is served. Clear Turtle Soup Proceed in the preparation of three quarts of turtle stock in every respect according to the preceding instructions. The glutinous parts of the turtle having been cut into squares, select the dark-coloured pieces from the back shell and keep them for the clear turtle. When the turtle stock has boiled six hours, strain it off and divide it into two equal parts—the one to be finished in the usual manner, the other to be first freed from every particle of fat, and afterwards clarified in the usual manner, with two whites of eggs whipped up with a little cold water, and the addition of a glass of French white wine or the juice of a lemon; add a table- spoonful of turtle herbs to give the requisite flavour, and set it to boil on the fire, whisking it the whole time. As soon as the egg begins to separate in the stock, remove it to the side of the stove, pour in a glass of Madeira, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the egg be thoroughly set. Then proceed to strain it through