DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 111 small quenelles it la Xavier (see p. 63) and a glass of Madeira; allow them to simmer on the fire for five minutes, and add them to a similar quantity and description of soup as directed in the preceding recipe, but omitting the fillets of larks, and send to table. Note.—The above soups may be prepared with equal success by using any of the numerous sorts of Italian pastes, instead of keeping to those described for the purpose. The soups may also be varied by changing their garnishes. DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL TURBOT AND BRILL Plain Boiled Turbot or a l’Anglaise Procure, if possible, a turbot conveyed by land-carriage, of small size : the larger fish are never delicate; choose it thick and plump, open it to ascertain that the back-bone is free from colour, as when it has a reddish appearance, although perfectly fresh, it is sure to boil a bad colour. Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, remove the dark skin and rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt; put it into a turbot-kettle, add a sufficient quantity of spring water to cover the fish, then throw in a good tablespoonful of salt, and set the turbot on the stove to boil; as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it thoroughly and lift the kettle from the fire to the side, there to remain gently boiling for half an hour, more or less, according to the. size of the fish. When the turbot is done, lift it out of the water with the drainer; slip it carefully on to a dish prepared to receive it, and send it to table with either Lobster (see p. 14) or Dutch sauce (see p. n). Turbot a la Parisienne Choose a turbot weighing about two and a half pounds, trim the fins off close, remove the dark skin, make an incision in the back from head to tail, and, inserting the knife on either side, detach the fish from the bone right up to the fins; then cut the back-bone through, close to the head and tail, and carefully separate the under part of the fish from the bone, so as not to run the knife through; bone the turbot in this manner, wipe it with a clean cloth, season it inside with a little pepper and salt, and spread a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with a small teaspoonful of chopped fine herbs, inside. Then butter a large baking-sheet, and place the turbot upon it with the white side uppermost; moisten with a small • glass of French white wine, a little essence of mushrooms, and a gill of oyster liquor; season with a little pepper and salt, place a buttered paper over the whole, and set the fish to boil on the stove ; next put it in the oven to simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to baste the turbot with its liquor every five minutes so that it may thus absorb the greater portion while stewing. When the turbot is done, drain it from its liquor on to a large earthenware dish