CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, ETC. 189 Calf’s-Head with Piquante Sauce Prepare half a calf’s-head as directed in the preceding recipe ; then put about four ounces of chopped beef-suet into a large stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire until the suet is melted, then add the pulp of a lemon and a tablespoonful of flour; moisten with two or three quarts of common white stock or water, add a little salt and a few peppercorns, and then set the calf’s-head to boil gently for about two hours. When it is done, drain the pieces upon a napkin, and dish them up neatly round the tongue trimmed and glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish place the ear, after trimming it, at one end, and on either side of the tongue place half the brains (which should be boiled in vinegar and water with a little salt, and some fat from the stock-pot), make an incision lengthwise in each half portion of the brains, then pour a well-made Piquante sauce (see p. 6) over the whole; garnish round with fried croutons, and send to table. Calf’s-head, prepared according to the foregoing directions, may also be served with either Italian, Ravigote, Tomato, Poivrade, or Poor Man’s sauce. Calf’s-Head a la Financiere Bone half a calfs-head, blanch it in boiling water for about ten minutes on the fire, then put it into cold water for ten minutes ; drain it upon a napkin, trim off all the rough parts, and cut it into large scallops, leaving the tongue and ear whole as usual; the brains should be carefully taken out of the head, and boiled separately, as directed in previous recipes. The pieces of calf’s-head, after being first rubbed over with lemon juice, should be placed in a braising-pan with a little sherry or Madeira, a pint of good stock, carrot, onion, celery, parsley, etc.; four cloves, two blades of mace and a few peppercorns; cover with a thickly buttered oval piece of strong white paper, and put on the lid; then set it to braise gently for about two hours. Twenty minutes before dinner-time drain the pieces of calf’s head on to a napkin, dish them up in the form of a wreath round the base of a fried croustade (previously stuck on the centre of the dish with a little flour and white of egg mixed together), at one end place the ear, on the croustade place the tongue (separated down the centre, and rather spread out) and the brains ; around these should be stuck in the croustade three or four ornamental skewers, each furnished with a double cock’s-comb, a large mushroom, a truffle, and a crayfish; pour round the whole a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), and send to table. Calf’s-Head & la Beauvaux Select a small calf’s-head, bone it carefully, as before directed, keeping the skin as whole as possible. When the head has been boned, wash it thoroughly, wipe it with a clean cloth, season inside