THE MODERN COOK 212 Grouse Pie a l’Ecossaise Pick two grouse, cut off the legs and wings, and tuck the thighs inside; then cut away the lower parts of the backs, which, if per- mitted to remain, would, from their bitter taste, spoil the pie.. Cover the bottom of the dish with slices of beef-steak seasoned with chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, pepper and salt; over these place the grouse, and some slices of hard-boiled eggs; lay some small thin slices of streaky bacon or ham upon the top, and then mix nearly half a pint of good gravy with one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup or Harvey sauce; pour this preparation into the pie, sprinkle some chopped parsley and mushrooms on the surface, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. Partridge Pie a la Chasseur Cut two small partridges into small joints, in the same manner as directed for cutting up fowls for a fricassee, and set them apart on a plate. Then cover the bottom of the pie-dish with neatly- trimmed slices of veal, and thin slices of streaky bacon—first partially boiled to extract the salt; cover these with a gill of the following preparation :—Make about half a pint of Soubise sauce, six or eight button mushrooms, some chopped parsley, and a little thyme; season with cayenne pepper and salt. When the veal, etc., is covered with the above, place the pieces of partridge in neat order upon the whole with some slices of hard-boiled eggs; pour the remainder of the sauce on these, and smooth over the surface with a knife; cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for one hour and a half, and serve. Giblet Pie with Fine Herbs Procure one or more sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, afterwards immerse them in cold water and drain them upon a napkin. Then cut the giblets into pieces about two inches long, trim neatly and place in a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and season with pepper and a little salt; moisten with a pint of good broth and a glass of sherry, and set them to stew gently on a slow fire. When done, remove the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs; drain the giblets, skim off all the fat from the broth, and after having put it back into a small stew-pan, thicken it with a little roux, and boil the sauce over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. Reduce the sauce by boiling to about a gill, and then remove it from the fire. Next cover the bottom of the dish with slices of fillet of beef, season with fine herbs, consisting of mushrooms, parsley, a very little sweet basil, and one shalot, adding cayenne pepper, and salt; over these pour half the sauce, then fill the dish up with the giblets, which place in neat order; sprinkle some fine herbs upon them and pour the remainder of the sauce over the whole. Cover the pie with puff- paste, bake it for an hour, and send to table.