FISH ENTREES 161 each kind alternately; fill the centre with some scallops of fillets of soles, tossed in a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, and some chopped and parboiled parsley; over the plain fillets pour some Aurora sauce (see p. n) (taking care not to coat those that are bread-crumbed), and serve. Note.—Fillets of plaice, flounders, and perch may be dressed in the same manner as directed for fillets of soles or whitings. Darne, or Slice of Salmon a la Montpellier Procure about two and a half pounds of the prime cut of a good- sized salmon; slip the blade of a sharp knife under the skin, and detach this without removing it; fill up the cavity with a piece of carrot covered with fat bacon; wrap the slice of salmon in layers of fat bacon, and tie them on with string. Place the fish on a drainer in a stew-pan, moisten with some mirepoix (see p. 57), and leave to boil very gently over a moderate fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then remove it, and let the fish remain in its own liquor until nearly cold; drain it, and set aside to become firm. The darne must then be freed from its skin, etc., trimmed, and lightly masked over with glaze mixed with some lobster-coral. Cut out a round or oval piece of bread, about the size of the salmon, and an inch thick, and fry it in hot fat; spread this all over with some Montpellier butter (see p. 43), smooth the surface with a knife dipped in warm water, and put it on the bottom of the dish. Next place the darne of salmon upon this, and spread the upper part with rather a thin coating of the Montpellier butter, which, after being, smoothed over, must be decorated with a bold wreath of roses or laurels, composed of black truffles. Ornament the entree with fancy croutons of aspic jelly. Trout a la Vertpre Boil two or three small trout in some mirepoix (see p. 57), and when cold remove the skins; spread them all over with a thin coating of Montpellier butter (see p. 43), and mark out the mouth, gills, and the eyes with some narrow strips of black truffles. Cut some of the truffles into thin slices, and afterwards stamp them out with a circular tin-cutter in the form of half-moons, and arrange them upon the trout to imitate fish scales. Prepare a foundation of fried bread, covered with Montpellier butter, as directed in the last recipe; place it on the dish, arrange the trout upon it, and ornament with a border of aspic croutons. Mayonnaise of Fillets of Soles, etc. Trim the fillets of two soles, simmer them in a sautd-pan with one ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; when done, press the fillets between two dishes, and as soon as they are cold, divide each fillet into three portions, trim the ends, put them into a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them steep in this. Next prepare an aspic border mould in the following manner:— M *