2 THE MODERN COOK equal proportion to each stew-pan. The carcase of a wild rabbit may also be added to the brown sauce, and to the white sauce the carcase of an old fowl. Pour into each pan two quarts of stock; place the pans, with their covers on, on brisk fires, and let them boil sharply till the broth is nearly reduced to a half glaze; then take them off the fire immediately, and slacken the stove ; after which, replace the pans on the fire, adding to the brown sauce quarter of a pound of glaze, to be reduced together with the stock, by which it will acquire a redder hue; it will also accelerate its progress,—a point of great importance, —for if sauces or broths remain too long on the fire the delicacy of their flavour is sure to be impaired. As soon as the broth of the white sauce is reduced to the con- sistency of pale glaze1 fill it up with one pint of stock, garnish it with a good-sized carrot, one onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a garnished faggot or bouquet made of parsley, a bay-leaf, and thyme, tied together neatly. Set it on the stove to boil; skim it well, and then place it to simmer gently at the side of the stove. Pay strict attention to the brown sauce in order to prevent the possibility of its being caught by the fire in the least degree. Such an accident always tends to lessen its smoothness. Ascertain when the brown sauce is sufficiently glazed by dipping the end of a knife into it, twirling the handle round in the hand so as to take up a quantity of glaze on the point of the blade; if you can then roll it into a ball without its sticking to the fingers, and it is of a chestnut-brown colour, you may proceed to fill it up in exactly the same manner as described for the white sauce. About two hours after the above-mentioned operations have been attended to, pass the broths through napkins into large kitchen basins. Then pour two ounces roux or thickening into the stew-pans to be used for mixing each of these sauces; take off all the fat, and pour the brown broth upon brown roux, and the white broth upon white roux. While the sauces are being mixed they should be well stirred. When thoroughly mixed, they must be kept sufficiently liquid to enable them (after boiling on the stove-fire, and while they are simmering on the side) to throw up the whole of the butter with which the roux was made, together with the scum, by which means they assume a velvety appearance, from which the white sauce takes its name Veloute. Finally, add a large tablespoonful of white chicken broth to the white sauce, and the same quantity of consomme to the brown sauce ; let them clarify for about twenty minutes longer; and then, if suffi- ciently reduced, pass them through the tammy cloths into white basins, and put them away in the larder for future use. 1 When time presses, or the veal used for this purpose is not white, the process of boiling down to a glaze, recommended above, may be dispensed with ; and, conse- quently, the white broth or water added at once.