322 THE MODERN COOK Escallops of Pheasant a la Palerme Prepare some escallops with the fillets of a hen-pheasant, use the legs to make some puffle with (see p. 321), mix some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) with the essence made from the carcase, and add this to the escallops with some slices of tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Prepare also half-a-dozen small croustades of nouilles (see p. 208), fry them a light golden colour, empty them, and fill with the puree; dish up the escallops, place the croustades round the entree, and serve. Pheasant a la Perigueux Follow in every respect the directions for dressing Turkey k la Perigord (see p. 204). Pheasants a la Chipolata These are to be trussed and nicely roasted, and dished up and neatly garnished with a Chipolata ragout (see p. 44). Pheasants a l’ltalienne Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, and roast them in the usual way, then cover the breasts with a reduced wine mirepoix, retaining the vegetables in it; wrap in two large sheets of well- buttered paper, securely fastened at each end with string. Roast the pheasants for an hour, take them up, place them on a dish, garnish with a border of raviolis (see p. 103), pour an Italian sauce over them, and serve. Pheasants a la Beauveaux The pheasants must be boned, except the legs and wings, which should be left entire; stuff with a farce made with fat livers of fowls or game (see p. 61), then truss them so as to give them the appearance of being whole; cover the breasts with some reduced mirepoix (see p. 57), and wrap them up in two sheets of buttered paper, which must be securely fastened with string. Roast the pheasants an hour, and when done, dish up with a ragout of scallops of fat livers and truffles (see p. 44) in a Financiere sauce, and serve. Pheasants k la Financiere Truss and roast one or more pheasants, and when done, dish up with a rich Financiere ragofit (see p. 44). Pheasants with Pur4e of Celery Truss one or more pheasants for boiling, braise them in some good stock garnished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; when done, drain them, dish them up, and pour over them a white pur£e of celery (see p. 27); garnish with a border of potato croquettes, and serve.