187 REMOVES OF LAMB hours and a half. When the lamb is done, put it in press between two dishes until it is nearly cold. Then trim it neatly, and cover it over with a coating of well-seasoned reduced Allemande sauce, which must be allowed to set, then cover with a beaten egg and very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle some drops of melted fresh butter with a paste-brush over the whole, and put it on a baking sheet in the oven to acquire a light-brown or fawn colour. The saddle of lamb being ready, dish it up, garnish with some bouchees of wild rabbits a la Pompadour (seep. 297); sauce round and under the lamb with some White Italian sauce (see p. 5), and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Godard Bone, stuff, and braise a small saddle of lamb, according to the preceding directions; when done, put it in press between two dishes till cold. It should then be trimmed neatly without removing any of the fat, or diminishing its size, and put into a deep baking-sheet with the broth in which it has been braised—-previously clarified, and afterwards reduced to half-glaze for the purpose ; put a buttered oval piece of white paper on the top, and, half an hour before dinner, put it in the oven to be warmed and glazed a fine light colour. Then dish it up, and pour round it a rich ragotit h la Godard, composed of cocks’ combs and kernels, button-mushrooms, small sweetbreads cut into scallops, and truffles,—the whole to be tossed in some good Allemande sauce. Put a border of large quenelles decorated with truffles, and some larded lamb’s-heart sweetbreads placed alter- nately round the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Financiere Prepare a saddle of lamb exactly as the foregoing, and when dished up, garnish it with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44); glaze the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Royale For the preparation of this remove, follow the directions for loin of veal h. la Royale (see p. 179). Saddle of Lamb a la Macedoine Bone, stuff, and braise a saddle of lamb as for a la Godard (see above), warm and glaze it also in the same manner; dish it up, garnish with a rich and well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables tossed in some Allemande sauce; surround the remove with a border of cooked artichoke-bottoms, or small turnips cut in the shape of cups, and filled, half with green peas, and the remainder with very small trimmed or scooped carrots; nicely glaze the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Milanaise Prepare and braise a saddle of lamb, as previously directed ; when glazed, dish it up, and garnish with macaroni prepared as follows :— Boil half a pound of macaroni in boiling water; when done,