398 THE MODERN COOK served as fancy bread, for breakfast, etc., in which case they should be moulded into twists, fingers, rings, etc. When served at routs, public breakfasts, balls, etc., dried cherries, citron, candied orange or lemon peel, pine-apple or angelica, steeped in some kind of liqueur, may be introduced; in either of these cases, before adding the fruit, part of the paste must be reserved, rolled out, and used to enclose the other part of the brioche. This is necessary to prevent the fruit from protruding through the paste, as then it becomes scorched by the heat of the oven and has an unsightly appearance. When fruit has been mixed in a brioche, it should be glazed with fine sugar by the salamander after baking. Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, are sometimes introduced in a brioche for a second-course remove; the first should be cut up in dice, the latter grated. As with the fruit, this kind of brioche must also be enclosed in a portion of the paste reserved for that purpose. Baba or Polish Cake Ingredients : f lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, 1 oz. muscatel raisins, 1 oz. currants, £ oz. candied citron, x wine-glass rum, a pinch salt, 5 eggs, and £ oz. German yeast. First set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour, and the yeast, in the same way as directed for preparing brioche. Then spread out the remainder of the flour so as to form a well in the centre: place in this the butter (melted) and salt, previously dis- solved with a drop or two of water, sugar, and eggs: mix the whole thoroughly, working the paste with the hands on the slab. Then gather the paste together and take up portions of it with the hands, and jerk or throw these down again on the other part of the paste ; continue working it in' this fashion for five minutes, then if the sponge is sufficiently risen, spread it out over the paste and mix both together lightly. Grease a large mould, and line not more than half through with a thin coating of the paste, and as soon as this has been done all the fruit and the rum must be added, the whole of which must be instantly well mixed and added to the mould. The baba should next be left, to rise gradually, in a warm place; and as soon as it has risen sufficiently to nearly fill the mould, the baba should be placed in a moderate oven on a thick baking-sheet, with a thick roll of paper round the bottom of the mould to protect it from heat. Bake for about an hour until light brown. To serve this, soak the cake in rum-flavoured syrup. (Baba is a hot or cold sweet.) Compiegne Cake Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, x gill cream, 3 oz. castor sugar, 1 wine-glass maraschino, i oz. German yeast, 5 eggs, and a pinch salt. Set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast in the usual way (see “Brioche,” p. 397), and while it is rising, prepare the paste as follows :—