124 THE MODERN COOK on the kitchen table lengthwise before you, so as to have a command on either side; then take a long thin-bladed knife, insert its point immediately between the flesh and skin, run the knife right up, keeping close to the back fin, and minding that the edge of the knife be kept to the left; press with the palm of the left hand on the skin of the fish, drawing the knife to and fro, so as to sever the skin from the flesh; and after effecting this on one side, repeat it on the other. Replace the skin over the sturgeon, and fasten it on with a string in order to preserve the colour of the fish, at the same time taking care to give shape and appearance to the sturgeon. Then put it into a fish-kettle or braising-pan on the drainer belonging to it, moisten with a good wine mirepoix, and set it to braise with fire under and over. If the quality of the sturgeon be good, about two and a half hours’ gentle boiling will suffice to braise it; the fish must be well basted with its liquor every now and then. When the sturgeon is done, take it up, remove the skin, drain, and afterwards mask it with some stiff glaze, in which has been mixed some pounded lobster coral in sufficient quantity to give the sturgeon a bright scarlet colour ; form on its centre a palm or star with some contises fillets of soles. Ornamental skewers may be used, but are not strictly essential; they should each be garnished with a large truffle, crayfish, mush- room, quenelle, and truffle. Pour some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13) round it, garnish with a border of tails of very small lobsters and alternate groups of small quenelles of whiting, button-mush- rooms, and truffles. Sturgeon a la Genoise Prepare the sturgeon as in either of the foregoing recipes, and after having glazed and dished it up, pour some Genoise sauce (see p. 9) round it; garnish with a border of large crayfish, and serve. Sturgeon a la Dauphine Pare off the whole of the skin of a prime cut of sturgeon, weighing about four to six pounds; garnish the inside to its full extent with some quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped and simmered fine herbs; set the sturgeon to braise in some wine mirepoix; when done, drain it and put it to cool in the larder, after which cover it well over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce, and when the sauce has cooled upon the fish, bread-crumb it in the usual manner, drop a little clarified butter over it through a straining-spoon, put it on a drainer into a deep baking-dish, and set it in the oven to be baked to a light colour. Then place it on a dish, sauce with Sturgeon sauce (see p. 14), garnish with an outer row of quenelles of gurnets mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley, and garnish the inner circle with alternate groups of thin scallops of lobster (tossed in a little lobster-coral butter to render them of a bright scarlet colour) and some button-mushrooms. Stick on four ornamental hatelets or silver skewers, garnished each with a large truffle, quenelle, and mushroom.