THE MODERN COOK 312 of this; they must then be trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a saute-pan with thin layers of fat bacon under them, a bouquet garni in the centre, and covered with layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise them gently for about half an hour. Prepare a rich Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44), the sauce of which must be finished with some of the liquor in which the quails have been braised. When about to send to table, warm the quails, drain, and dish up, garnish the centre with the Financiere, pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Quails a la Royale Bone four quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force-meat, and truss them in the usual manner; place them in a stew-pan with some sliced carrot, an onion, two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with a pint of white stock, cover with a round of buttered paper, put the lid on, and leave them to braise very gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour; then allow them to partly cool in their own liquor, after which they must be taken out and placed upon a dish to become cold; the strings should then be removed, and the quails entirely covered with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); when this has become firmly set by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten egg, and bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, place the quails in a frying-basket and plunge them into hot fat; fry them a light-brown colour, then drain, and dish up on a border of quenelle force-meat previously turned out on the dish; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some Allemande sauce round, and serve. Cutlets of Quails a la Marechale Split three or more quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of the back-bones, leaving the leg whole, which must be passed through the skin of the thigh to give the appearance of cutlets; flatten them slightly with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and bread-crumb them twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter; pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place in a saut£-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the cutlets a light colour over a rather brisk fire; when done, drain and glaze lightly, and dish up in the same way as other cutlets; fill the centre with either a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) or pieces of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus peas, or a puree of artichokes; pour some half-glaze or a little Supreme sauce round the entree, and serve. Cutlets of Quails a la Bordelaise Trim four or six quails into cutlets in the same way as before, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter; fry over a brisk fire, and as soon as they are brown on both sides, pour off all the fat, add a dessert-