PUDDINGS IN GENERAL 447 Put three yolks of eggs into a bain-marie or stew-pan, together with one and a half ounces of castor sugar, one and a half gills of sherry, some orange or lemon peel (rubbed on loaf-sugar), and a very little salt. Whisk this sharply over a very slow fire until it becomes like a light frothy custard. Pudding a la Viennoise Ingredients : 8 oz. brioche or crumb of bread cut up into small dice, i small glass Madeira, the rind of i lemon, i oz. sweet and J oz. bitter almonds pounded, 2 oz. sultana raisins, 1 caramel custard made with 4 yolks of eggs, f pt. milk, 2 oz. burnt sugar, and sweetened with 3 oz. loaf-sugar. Put the brioche, almonds, rind of lemon (rubbed on sugar), and the sultanas into a large basin; pour the Madeira to this, and when it has been absorbed by the brioche, etc., pour the caramel custard on it. Then spread the inside of the mould with butter, decorate it with candied orange-peel, and fill it with the above mixture. Steam the pudding for about an hour and a half, and when done, turn out on a dish, pour some custard or Arrowroot sauce over, and send to table. Cabinet Pudding Butter a plain mould, and ornament the bottom and sides with dried cherries and candied citron or strips of angelica; fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of sponge-cakes and ratafias or macaroons; then fill up with a lemon custard made with four' yolks of eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the grated rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but merely mixed up. Steam the pudding in the usual way for about an hour and a half, and when done, dish up either with Arrow- root sauce or a custard. Chestnut Pudding Bake or boil three dozen chestnuts, rub the pulp through a sieve, and place this in a stew-pan with half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, a few drops of essence of vanilla, and a very little salt; stir these ingredients over the fire until the prepara- tion thickens and comes away from the sides of the stew-pan. Then remove it from the fire, add four yolks and the whites of four eggs whipped stiffly; pour the pudding mixture into a plain mould, previously spread with butter, and then steam it for about an hour and a half. When the pudding is done, turn it carefully out of the mould on a dish, pour some warm diluted apricot jam over, and serve. Ginger Pudding Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 4 oz. preserved ginger, | pt. milk, 2 oz. butter, a little salt. Put the milk, sugar, butter, and salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, take off the stew-pan, add the flour, and stir the whole together quickly; then put the pan back