QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL 61 Game Force-Meat, or Farce To one pound of boned game, of the kind intended to be pre- served, add half a pound of fat bacon or ham, and half a pound of fat livers (or, failing these, calf’s liver); cut the whole into small square pieces, and proceed as follows :—First, fry the pieces of bacon in a large saute-pan, and when they become slightly browned, throw in the game and livers ; season with pepper and salt, aromatic spices, chopped mushrooms, and one or two shalots; fry the whole till the game is thoroughly done. Then chop and pound all these ingredients together; and afterwards rub them through a wire-sieve, after which put the farce into a clean pan, and keep it covered over with buttered paper. It should be used the same day that it is made, for the sooner preserves are out of hand the better. The use of this farce will be shown in its proper place. Note.—When about to preserve game in earthen pans for the spring or summer season, great care should be taken in selecting fresh game for that purpose, as when preserves are made with stale game the preparation will most likely not bear keeping so as to be eatable when opened for use. Liver Farce for Gratins, etc. If the farce be required for turbans of fillets of fowls or rabbits, or pat^s-chauds of game or small birds, it should be made of fat livers or leg of veal, and prepared in exactly the same manner as directed for making farce of livers for game pies—excepting that, to finish it for use, it is necessary to add one-third the quantity of well-made bread panada, and an equal proportion of raw eggs to bind it and give it body. In order to ascertain whether this farce is perfect, roll a small quantity in a little flour on a plate, then put it on a small baking- sheet in the oven for five minutes; when done through, cut it asunder, and if it preserves its shape and remains firm to the touch, it may be used with safety; but if it appears to shrink or melt in the oven, then a little more panada and another egg must be added, which will render it more compact. Godiveaux in General To half a pound of either veal, fillets of fowls, pheasants, partridges, etc., chopped exceedingly fine and smooth to the touch, add half a pound of beef suet, two whole eggs, three ounces of bread soaked in water and well wrung in a napkin, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Chop these ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then pound them in a mortar until the whole presents the appearance of a compact body. Then place the substance upon a plate, cover it with buttered paper, and set it upon ice to cool for a couple of hours. After the godiveau has been cooled, put it in the mortar again and pound it with considerable force, taking care to mix in with it by degrees about a gill of clean iced water. This last process will cause