249 ENTRIES OF MUTTON smoothly with the blade of a knife, put the cutlets carefully away on a dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time. The cutlets must then be placed in rows in a frying-basket; when the fat is sufficiently hot dip the cutlets in it, and fry a deep yellow colour; then drain on a paper, in order to absorb all the grease, and dish up in a close circle upon a vegetable border. Fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some half-glaze round the base, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Provengale Braise and trim the cutlets as in the previous recipe; except that in the present instance the cutlets must be left plain, omitting altogether the larding or studding. While the cutlets are being braised, prepare the following sauce :—Cut a large Spanish onion into very small dice, parboil in water, drain, and then place in a small stew- pan, with one ounce of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of glaze, a little mignonette pepper, salt, and some grated nutmeg; cover the stew-pan, and place the onion on a very slow fire, to be thoroughly stewed, without browning. Next add a gill of white sauce, a little grated garlic on the point of a knife, and stir the whole on the fire until reduced to a paste; then add the yolk of an egg and a little lemon juice; mix well together, and use this preparation to cover the surface of one side only of the cutlets; shake a coating of bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, over this, and then place the cutlets in a stew-pan containing a little half-glaze. About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be warmed through, pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a deep golden colour, toss them in thin glaze, and dish them up; then pour some Provengale sauce under them, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Russe Cut six or eight thick cutlets, as directed in the first recipe of this section ; insert strips of lean ham through the lean part, in a circular form; prepare them for braising in the usual way, and in addition to the usual vegetables and seasoning, add a clove of garlic and a couple of capsicums; moisten with a glass of Madeira and a pint of good stock; set the cutlets to braise for an hour and a half on a very slow fire, and when nearly done remove from the fire, that they may partially cool in their own liquor; and then put them in press between two dishes. When the cutlets are cold, trim them neatly, and cover one side only with a coating of the following preparation :—Clean a large stick of horse-radish, and grate finely; put this into a small stew-pan with a small pat of butter, two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar, a pinch of mignonette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; put the lid on, and set the whole to stew very gently for twenty minutes on a very slow fire; then add a gill of Velout<* sauce, boil the whole well together for ten minutes, mix with this sauce the yolk of an egg and a small piece of glaze, and use this preparation as directed above. Next mask the coated side of the cutlets with a paste-brush