THE MODERN COOK 210 escaping. Set it in the oven to bake for about two hours, and when it is done, remove the crust, dish up the goose, strain the gravy into a stew-pan, skim off every particle of fat, and then boil it down to the bare quantity required for saucing; to this add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and some orange peel shred fine; boil the whole together for two minutes, then pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. Goose a la Normande Chop one large onion fine, blanch, and afterwards drain it; then fry it with a little butter a light-brown colour, and mix it with mashed potatoes, in sufficient quantity to stuff the goose; this being done, truss and roast it in the usual manner, and dish it up; garnish with a border of small round apples cut into fancy shapes and glazed. Pour a rich gravy round the goose, and send to table. Wild Goose a l’Aberdeen Draw and singe a goose, and stuff with the following preparation :— To three ounces of chopped beef-suet, add the same quantity of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, one egg, a little chopped thyme, sweet basil, and marjoram, two shalots, and a dessertspoonful of parsley; season with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead the whole well together, and stuff the goose with it. Then truss the goose, and roast in the same fashion as directed for a haunch of venison. It will require about one and a half to two hours to roast; when done, dish it up with a border of glazed onions (see p. 37), pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under it, and send to table. The goose should be frothed with flour and butter in the same manner as venison, after the crust has been removed. Wild Goose a l’Allemande Prepare the goose at first as directed on p. 209, then place it in a deep earthenware dish, and strew upon it the following vegetables cut into thin slices: two carrots, two onions, one head of celery, a hand- ful of parsley, four bay leaves, thyme, marjoram, and sweet basil in small quantities; also four blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns, two lemons peeled and cut into slices, half a pint of salad oil, and a gill of French vinegar. Allow the goose to remain in this marinade or pickle for a couple of days, taking care to turn it frequently. When about to cook the goose, cover it with paper well buttered, lay the whole of the vegetables, etc., on the breast, cover these with two sheets of buttered paper, and fasten them on securely with string. Roast the goose thus prepared for about two hours, taking care to baste it frequently ; when done, glaze and dish up, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes rolled in fried bread-crumbs, and pour under it a sauce made as follows :— Grate a stick of horse-radish ; peel and slice up a lemon, removing the pips, and put these in a stew-pan with two shalots, six cloves,