183 REMOVES OF MUTTON Braised Leg of Mutton a la Soubise Bone a small leg of mutton, and lard it as in the foregoing recipe, stuff it with three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat made with game, and secure the stuffing with string. Then prepare the leg of mutton for braising with a couple of carrots and onions, a head of celery, a bunch of herbs, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a quart of common stock, cover these with buttered paper, then put on the lid and set it on a moderate fire to braise gently for about three hours, taking care to moisten it frequently with its liquor. When the mutton is braised perfectly tender, take it up on to a baking-sheet with some of the liquor in which it has been braised, and put it in the oven to finish glazing. In the meantime strain off and clarify the remainder of the liquor, and keep it in a small bain-marie; and after having glazed the mutton brightly, dish it up on a bed of well-made Soubise puree of onion (see p. 29), garnish round with potato croquettes, and send to table. The clarified essence, after being reduced to half-glaze, should be sent to table in a sauce-boat to be served with the mutton when carved; if poured round the mutton, it would mix with the Soubise sauce. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Bretonne Prepare and braise a small leg of mutton as directed in the fore- going recipe; when done, glaze and dish it up on a bed of white haricot beans dressed it la Bretonne (see p. 353); garnish with a border of potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in butter to a golden colour; ornament the bone with a paper ruffle, and send to table. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Jardiniere Bone and braise a small leg of mutton according to the preceding directions; and when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish with alternate groups of prepared small carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French beans cut in diamonds, small new potatoes, asparagus-heads, and green peas—the whole or any part of these, according to the season. Pour round the mutton some Espagnoie sauce in which has been incorporated, after reduction, the clarified essence in which the mutton has been braised; put on a ruffle, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing garnishes for braised legs of mutton, they may also be appropriately served with new potatoes ii la Maitre d’Hotel, fresh haricot beans, stewed peas, and a border of young carrots glazed, artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters and tossed in Allemande sauce, or with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35). Braised Saddle of Mutton a la Macedoine Procure a small well-covered saddle of mutton, and extract the spine-bone with the knife, without injuring the fillets or perforating any part of the fat which covers them ; trim the tail-end quite round, cut the flaps square, season the inner part of the saddle with pepper