ENTREES OF PORK 273 off the extremities neatly, make an incision in the hoof, and remove the round tuft of wool; place the lamb’s feet in a stew-pan contain- ing some button-mushrooms and one pint of sauce a la Poulette, toss them in this over the fire until quite warm ; then dish up neatly, and serve with a border of fleurons or croutons of fried bread. Lamb’s Feet a la d’Uxelles Braise and trim the feet as before, cover them with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce, and when this has become firmly set, bread-crumb them twice over in the usual manner, and fry them in hot fat; when done, drain and dish up with fried parsley upon a folded napkin, and serve some Italian sauce separately in a boat. t Lamb’s Feet Fried in Batter Proceed the same as directed for Calf’s Feet (see p. 266), using lamb’s feet or trotters in place of calf’s feet. ENTREES OF PORK Griskin or Spare = Rib of Pork a la Soubise Trim a small piece of griskin of pork and lard it closely, then put it in a deep dish with sliced onion and carrot, parsley, a gill of salad oil, some slices of peeled lemon, and a little mignonette pepper; allow the griskin to steep in this for several hours, or a whole day if possible. Then cover the larding with buttered paper, and roast for about an hour. When the griskin is ready for serving, pour some Soubise sauce (see p. 29) round, garnish with a border of potatoes fried in clarified butter, glaze, and serve. Griskin of Pork a la Lyonnaise Prepare and roast this in the same way as before, and when done, dish up with some Lyonnaise sauce (see p. 7) round it; garnish with a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), glaze the griskin, and serve. Griskin of Pork a la Perigueux This must be prepared and roasted as before; when done, serve with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) and a border of mushrooms au gratin (see p. 344) round it. Broiled Pork Cutlets with Gravy, etc. Take eight small cutlets cut from the best end of the neck or loin of dairy-fed pork, not too fat; they should be trimmed but very little, the rough part of the chine-bone only requiring to be removed ; the skin must be left on and scored in six places. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; dish up with any of the following gravies or sauces, and serve : plain sage and onion, shalot, onion, fine herbs gravies or essences: Piquante, Gherkin, Tomato, Poivrade, Poor Man’s, Richelieu, and Gasconne sauces. T