REMOVES OF VEAL i7S been trimmed as closely and neatly as possible, and prepare it for braising as follows :— Line the bottom of the drainer of an oval braising-pan with two carrots, two onions, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs; cover the vegetables with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the neck of veal; lay the trimmings round it, and moisten with a quart of good veal stock ; put a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and set it to braise gently on a slow fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, which will require about two hours, glaze it brightly, and dish it up; garnish with a white ragofit of small quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’-combs; then place round the ragofit a border of lambs’ sweetbreads, larded, and send to table. Neck of Veal a la Dreux , Trim three to four pounds of neck of veal, lard it through the fillet with some truffles, tongue, and fat bacon; first cut these into two-inch lengths by a quarter of an inch square, and then introduce them into the fillet part of the neck of veal without showing through the skin which covers it; it should then be braised according to the directions in the foregoing recipe, and when done, glazed, and dished up. Garnish with a white ragofit of scallops of tongue and mush- rooms, glaze the neck of veal, and send to table. Neck of Veal a la d’Uxelles Prepare three to four pounds of neck of veal in every particular the same as described in the foregoing recipe, braise it, and allow it partly to cool in its own stock; drain, trim, and spread a coating of thickly reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5) over it; when the sauce has become set, proceed to coat the neck of veal in the usual manner by adding beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese to the bread-crumbs used for the purpose. Place the veal on a buttered baking-tin, and three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put it in the oven, and bake it to a fine bright light-brown colour: during this part of the process be careful to sprinkle a little clarified fresh butter over the bread-crumbed surface of the veal, in order to prevent it from drying or burning. When the neck of veal is done, place it on a dish, garnish round with a Toulouse ragofit (see p. 43), and send to table. Neck of Veal k l’Ecarlate Trim and lard a neck of veal in the usual manner, prepare it for braising according to the instructions set forth for the preparation of neck of veal h la Montmorency, and braise it in a similar manner; dish it up, garnish it round with a border of circular scallops of tongue that have been glazed; sauce round with either Supreme, Allemande, or Bechamel sauce, and send to table. Neck of Veal & la Royale Trim and braise a neck of veal, and afterwards let it get partially cool in its own braise; drain it, and mask it entirely with a coating