THE MODERN COOK 6o essence of game and mushrooms and a little Allemande sauce, which not only imparts a richer flavour to the quenelle, but also renders it smoother. Quenelle of Fillets of Small Birds Take the fillets of small birds (as quails, snipes, larks, plovers, and dottrel) as are likely to weigh about half a pound. Prepare them just as directed in the process for making quenelle of fowl—adding a little glaze made from their carcases and reduced with a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce. Quenelle of Whiting- Fillet one large whiting, after having previously skinned it; pound in a mortar, and force through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon. To this substance add two ounces of bread panada and fresh butter; pound these effectually, so as to mix them well together; add one whole egg, and the yolks of two others gradually ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix well by pounding the quenelle vigorously, and then put it into a basin for use as required. Quenelle of every sort of delicate fish is prepared in a similar manner to the above. Note.—A little cream may, if liked, be added to quenelle mixture. Quenelle of Lobster Take half a pound of lobster meat, cut this into thin slices, and pound it thoroughly with one ounce of fresh butter; force it through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon, and add two-thirds of its quantity of panada, and a similar proportion of fresh butter. Pound these well together, adding at intervals one egg and a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; mix well together by pounding, and then put the quenelle into a basin for use. Force=Meat of Liver and Ham, for Raised Pies Take half a pound of calfs liver, or three or four fat livers of any kind of poultry, if to be obtained. If calf’s liver be used, cut it into rather small square pieces, and, if time permit, steep them well in cold water in order to extract the blood, so that the force-meat may be whiter. Take the pieces of liver out of the water, and place them upon a clean cloth to drain the water from them. Meanwhile, cut a quarter of a pound of fat ham or bacon into square pieces, put them into a saute-pan on a brisk fire to fry, after which add the pieces of liver, and fry the whole to a light-brown colour; season with cayenne pepper and salt, and a little prepared aromatic spice (see p. 391), two or three chopped mushrooms, a little parsley, and ■one shalot. After this take the pieces of liver and ham out of the pan, lay them on a chopping-board, and chop them finely ; then put them into a mortar with the remaining contents of the pan; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a wire-sieve on to an earthenware dish. This kind of force-meat, or farce, is an excellent ingredient for making raised pies.