THE MODERN COOK 338 Roast Larks Cut off the heads and legs, and pick out the gizzards at the sides with the point of a small knife; season with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and nutmeg; rub the larks over with beaten yolk of eggs, bread-crumb them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and roll them in bread-crumbs a second time; then roast them before a very brisk fire or in a hot oven for about a quarter of an hour, basting with fresh butter. When done, dish up in rows or in a circle, fill the centre with bread-crumbs fried a light-brown colour, and serve with brown gravy. Roast Woodcock or Snipe Both these birds are trussed and roasted in the same manner. First pick them entirely, neck and head, then twist the legs at the joints so as to bring the feet down upon the thighs ; run the bill through the thighs and body, and fasten a noose with string round the bend of the joints, across the lower part of the breast; bring both ends round the head and tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the woodcocks with layers of bacon, and tie round with string; roast them before the fire or in the oven for about nve-and-twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter or dripping; place some toasted bread under the birds to receive the droppings from the trail, and when done, dish up with a piece of the toast under each, and water-cress round them. Serve some extract of woodcocks (see p. 41) separately in a sauce-boat. Roast Capon Draw and truss the capon as directed for trussing pheasants; and roast from one to one and a half hours, according to size. When done, dish up with water-cress, pour some bright gravy under them, and serve with Bread sauce in a boat. Pullets, fowls, chickens, and turkey poults are treated in the same manner as above. Green=Goose Draw the goose, pick off all the stubble-feathers, scald the legs, and rub the skin with a cloth ; cut the tips of the feet, and twist the legs round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs; then truss the goose in the ordinary way, as directed for pheasants. Roast before a brisk fire or in a hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour ; when done, dish up with water-cress round it, pour some gravy under, and serve. Ducklings are roasted and served in the same way as above. Roast Pig’eons Truss these with thin layers of fat bacon and a vine leaf over the breasts; roast before the fire or in the oven for about twenty minutes, and when done, dish up with a sauce made with the livers, in the same way as when making Liver sauce for rabbits (see p. 336)-