146 THE MODERN COOK whitings, sauce with the ragout prepared for the purpose, garnish round with large crayfish and small fluted bread croustades, and send to table. Eel a la Genoise Cut an eel into one- or two-inch lengths, or truss in an oval or round shape; prepare it for stewing with the usual vegetables, etc., moisten with a glass of claret or Burgundy wine. When done, drain, trim, and glaze them with some lobster coral in the glaze; pile the eel up in a pyramidal group on a dish, sauce with some good Genoise sauce (see p. 9) made with the liquor in which the eel has been stewed; garnish round with alternate groups of button-mushrooms and crayfish tails, and send to table. Eel a la Dauphinoise Bone one eel, fill with force-meat of whitings mixed with some fine herbs; then sew the eel up with a large worsted needle and some coarse thread; truss in a circular form, place in an oval stew- pan with some mirepoix (see p. 57), and set it to stew on the fire, or in the oven, basting it frequently, and taking care that it is not allowed to boil fast. When the eel is done, glaze and dish it up; in the centre place a group of quenelles of whiting mixed with some chopped truffles, and sauce with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the eel has been stewed in, and finish with a pat of anchovy butter and lemon juice. Garnish round with large crayfish, placing a group of two or three of the finest of these in the centre of the dish. Eel a la Venitienne Cut an eel into pieces two inches long, stew them in some mirepoix of French white wine; when done, drain, trim, and glaze them, and dish them up in two parallel conical groups; pour round them nearly a pint of Venetian sauce (see p. 8) which has been finished with the addition of half the mirepoix in which the eel has been stewed, a pat of anchovy butter, and the juice of half a lemon; pass this through a tammy or strainer into a stew-pan containing two dozen prepared button-mushrooms; a little blanched chopped parsley must be added the last thing. Garnish round with groups of mussels fried in batter, and serve. Eel a la Tartare Cut an eel into one-and-a-half-inch lengths, or truss whole in a circular form; place in a stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay leaf, and thyme, a few peppercorns and salt; moisten with a gill of vinegar and some water; then put on the fire to boil, and as soon as the pieces are done, set them to cool partially in their liquor; after which drain, trim, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry them to a golden colour, dish up with fried parsley, and send to table with some Tartare sauce (see p. 23) in a sauce-boat. Eels h la Tartare may also be bread-crumbed as follows :—Mix the beaten yolk of an egg and one ounce of fresh butter melted over