JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES 455 Jellied Banana Mould Coat the inside of a quart-size jelly mould with a thin layer of lemon jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with round slices of ripe bananas, the centre of which should be stamped out, and the cavities filled with angelica or glace cherries. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a pint of water for ten minutes, then put it in a stew-pan with three ounces of loaf-sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon and its juice; stir over the fire until dissolved and let boil for ten minutes, then strain into a basin, and stir in three tablespoonfuls of banana pulp and a glass of sherry. When sufficiently cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, and whisk for a few minutes. Lastly, mix in three thinly sliced ripe bananas. Turn this into the prepared mould, and place in the cool to set. Un- mould, and serve on a cold dish. Currant and Raspberry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of red currants and half a pound of raspberries, put these into a basin with six ounces of castor sugar and a gill of cold water; mash them thoroughly by squeezing them with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon against the sides of the basin, then strain through a jelly-bag, pouring it back into the bag until it runs perfectly bright; add half a pint of clarified syrup and one ounce of isinglass to the juice, and pour the jelly into a mould placed in rough ice to receive it. Note.—This kind of jelly serves for the foundation of several others; for instance, it may be garnished with a Macedoine of fruits, with white raspberries, with currants, strawberries, peaches, or cherries. Strawberry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of scarlet strawberries, put these into a basin, and then pour one pint of clarified boiling syrup and half a pint of red-currant juice on to them; cover them down with a sheet of paper, tightly twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow the infusion to stand in a cool place until it becomes cold; then mix it with one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and set the jelly in a mould, surrounded by crushed ice. Note.—This jelly should be garnished with strawberries before sending to table. Cherry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of cherries and a handful of red currants, and pound them in the mortar; then put them in a small preserving pan with half a pound of fine loaf-sugar and a pint of water; set this to boil on the fire for about five minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the surface: add one ounce of sheet gelatine and pour into a mould set in ice. The jelly may be garnished with cherries from which the stones have been removed. Mulberry Jelly This is prepared in the same way as strawberry jelly (see above).