2I5 MEAT PUDDINGS Kidney Pudding Cut three-quarters of a pound of sheep’s or lamb’s kidneys into thin slices, add a little chopped parsley, shalot, and a little thyme, and season with pepper and salt; then add a gill of good sauce and the juice of half a lemon : mix these ingredients well together. Line a small basin with suet crust, and fill the pudding with the prepara- tion • cover it in the usual way, steam or boil it for two hours, and when sent to table, pour under it some rich brown gravy and serve. Pudding of Small Birds a la Chipolata Most kinds of small birds may be used for this purpose, such as larks, sparrows, fieldfares, and wheat-ears, etc. Take one dozen small birds which have been picked clean, remove the gizzards, and fry them over a brisk fire until they are browned; add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, season with a little grated nutmeg, lemon juice, pepper and salt, and a gill of brown sauce, also six or eight roasted chestnuts previously peeled, and the same number of small pieces of parboiled streaky bacon: boil these ingredients for three minutes, then fill a lined pudding basin with them, and cover it with paste as usual. This pudding must be steamed from three to three and a half hours on account of its richness. When done, turn it out of the basin with care, in order not to break it; pour a rich brown sauce under, and serve. This pudding may be made in a plainer manner by omitting the mushrooms, lemon juice, sauce, and chestnuts—following in all other respects the same process. Snipe Pudding a la d’Orsay Pick three or four fine fat fresh snipes, singe them and divide them into halves, remove the gizzards and reserve the trail for further use ; season the snipes with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon- juice, and set them aside on a dish till wanted. Then peel one onion, cut it into thin slices and fry these in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter ; when they are slightly browned, add a good teaspoonful of flour, and stir on the fire for three minutes; then add two or three chopped mushrooms and a sprig or two of parsley, a small bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a small blade of mace and a clove of garlic; moisten with two glasses of claret; stir the whole upon the fire, and when these have boiled ten minutes, add the trail and a piece of good glaze. Set the sauce to boil for three minutes longer, and then strain it upon the snipes. Next line a good-sized pudding-basin with suet- crust, fill it up with the above preparation, and cover with a piece of paste properly fastened round the edges. Steam it in a covered stew-pan for two hours and a half to three hours. When the pudding is done, turn it out of the basin with care, pour a rich brown game gravy under it, and serve.