443 OMELETS AND PANCAKES Omelette a la Plombiere Pound in a mortar about two ounces of macaroons, beat up eight fresh eggs and add one tablespoonful of cream, half an ounce of castor sugar, a pinch of salt and the pounded macaroons, and mix well. Melt two ounces of butter in a large omelet pan. When hot, stir in the eggs, etc., and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set, then shape quickly into a cushion form. Put three to four table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, flavoured with a little maraschino, in the centre of the omelet, fold in, let it take colour and turn out in a large oval dish. Dredge the top with icing sugar, and glaze the surface in a sharp oven or under the salamander, then serve quickly. Sweet Omelet with Jam Four eggs, i tablespoonful cream, i tablespoonful castor sugar, a pinch of salt, i oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot or strawberry jam. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, half the sugar and a small pinch of salt, beat up well. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, pour in the eggs, and stir over a quick fire till the mixture begins to set. Shape the omelet and let it brown slightly, put the jam in the centre of the omelet, fold in the ends, and turn out on a hot dish ; sprinkle the top with sugar, hold under a hot salamander or under a red-hot shovel for a few seconds, and serve quickly. Burnt=Almond Omelet Cook two ounces of loaf-sugar with half a gill of water to a pale caramel, that is, till it acquires an amber-like colour, not actually brown; put in an ounce of peeled and shredded baked almonds, stir well, and add a quarter of a gill of milk. When dissolved, put it in a basin and incorporate seven well-beaten eggs. Melt in an omelet pan one and a half ounces of butter; when hot, put in the egg mixture and stir over a good fire till the eggs commence to set, then shape the omelet neatly and give it the form of an oval cushion. Let it take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. Sprinkle the surface with castor sugar and brown under a salamander, or else place it in a very hot oven for a few seconds. If liked, a little of the caramel sauce may be reserved and poured round the base of the dish. Peach Omelet Six eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marma- lade, 3-4 preserved peaches, 1 tablespoonful castor sugar, a pinch of salt, 1 oz. butter, 1 small glass Kirschwasser. Beat up four whole eggs in a basin, add the whites of the other two, and put the two yolks in a small stew-pan. Add the cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt to the eggs in the basin. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour in the eggs. Stir, and cook the omelet in the usual way. Before shaping put the apricot marmalade in the centre, then fold in, let it take colour, and turn on a hot dish; cut