404 THE MODERN COOK basin with a knife, cover it with paper, and leave the batter to rise in a warm place. When the sponge has risen twice its size, the butter should first be melted, and then added with the salt and one yolk of egg; mix these well in with the sponge, then add the whipped cream and the remaining yolks, and lastly, after having whipped the whites stiffly, mix them lightly in with the batter, and again leave to rise in a warm place. While the batter is being prepared, heat the gaufre-irons or wafer-tongs and butter the inside surfaces. Fill one side of the irons with some of the batter; dose the irons, and turn them upside down (that the batter may run into the opposite side), and put them over the fire, and when a golden colour on one side, turn the irons over that the gaufres may be baked evenly on the other side. They must then be turned out of the irons, the edges trimmed with a pair of scissors, and the wafers kept warm on a baking-sheet covered with paper. Repeat this process until the whole of the batter is used up; then shake some orange, lemon, or vanilla sugar over them, pile up neatly on fancy paper, and serve. French Gaufres Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 gill whipped cream, 3 eggs, a little salt, 1 glass curagao, and a few drops vanilla essence. Put the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolks of eggs, the vanilla essence, and the curacao, and mix these well together, gradually adding the whipped cream; just before using the batter, add the whipped whites of eggs, and fold them in lightly so as to thoroughly incorporate them with the mixture. Bake these gaufres in the same way as before, taking care that the iron is very carefully heated and the superfluous heat allowed to evaporate before filling them with the batter, as the sugar in their composition makes them liable to burn. When done, shake some vanilla sugar over them, and send to table. These gaufres may also be spread with some kind of preserve; such as apricot, currant jelly, etc. Almond Gaufres Ingredients : 6 oz. sweet almonds (either chopped finely or else cut into very fine shreds), 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 good table- spoonful flour, 2 whole eggs, and a very little salt; flavour with orange-flower water, or flowers (candied). Mix the almonds, sugar, flour, and flavouring together in a basin. Heat a baking-sheet in the oven, rub it all over equally with a piece of white wax, and when this has cooled, spread the gaufres very thinly over it; put them in a slow oven, and when about half-baked withdraw them, and with a circular cutter about two inches in diameter stamp out as many gaufres as the sheet will hold, and put them back again in the oven to brown lightly; they should then be instantly taken out and wrapped quickly round a well- greased cornet or cornucopia tin, and baked a few seconds longer.