THE MODERN COOK 52 six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, and, if the gravy has been filled up with water, add a tablespoonful of salt. Put the gravy to boil on the fire, skim it thoroughly, then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for about three hours ; next strain it through a napkin into another stew-pan, and proceed immediately to clarify it in the following manner :—Whisk up three whites of eggs with a little spring water, and after having removed all the grease from the surface of the gravy, incorporate the whites of eggs in with it; whisk it over the fire until it is nearly boiling, and then set it to simmer by the side for a quarter of an hour, and strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Blond de Veau, or Veal Gravy Having first well buttered a large stew-pan, lay therein a quarter of a pound of the lean part of a ham cut in slices, a pound of knuckle of veal; to these add an old hen or a couple of wild rabbits. Pour three pints of common stock over the meat, etc., and after putting the cover on the stew-pan, place it on the fire to boil down to a glaze ; then slacken the heat so that it may gradually become browned. When the glaze darkens to a deep red tinge, fill it up with two quarts of common stock or water, and set it on the stove; as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, garnish with two carrots, two turnips, two onions, one stick of celery, three cloves, and a blade of mace; and after it has boiled gently by the side of the stove-fire for three hours, strain it through a cloth into basins for use. This consomme is used for clearing and working the foundation Espagnole sauce, for colouring clear soups, and also for finishing some of the special sauces. SOUPS FOR INVALIDS Plain Chicken Broth Cut a young fowl or chicken into four parts ; wash these well in cold water, and put the pieces into a stew-pan with one quart of spring water and a very little salt; set it to boil on the fire, skim it well, and then add the heart of a white cabbage lettuce and a tablespoonful of chervil; boil the broth for about an hour, and then strain it through a cloth into a basin. Chicken Broth Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put them into a stew-pan with three pints of spring water ; set it on the fire to boil; skim it well, and add a little salt. Take two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, wash it in several waters, and add it to the broth, together with one ounce of marshmallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose of better extracting its healing properties. The broth should then boil one hour, and be passed through a napkin or cloth into a basin, to be kept ready for use.