49 BROTHS, CONSOMMES, ETC. a stew-pan containing eight to ten white button mushrooms, cocks’ combs, small round truffles, and small quenelles of whiting (see p. 60) coloured with lobster coral; to these add half a pint of Regency sauce (see p. 13), then allow the ragout to boil up on the lire, and use it for garnishing the dressed fish it is intended for. BROTHS, CONSOMMES, Etc. Nutritive Soup Into a gallon stock-pot put a pound of knuckle of veal, two pounds of the shoulder part of beef (commonly called the gravy- piece), and one pound of bones of roast beef or mutton. Fill the stock-pot with cold water to within two inches of the brim and set it upon the fire to boil, taking care not to hurry the process, but allow it to take place gently, so that it may have time to throw up its scum; this should be removed, as it rises to the surface, and a little cold water should be thrown in occasionally to effect that purpose. When the stock has thrown off all its scum, which will easily be perceived by the water becoming clear again, lift it off the stove and put it by the side. Then proceed to garnish it with two leeks and one head of celery trimmed and tied together, two good-sized carrots, two turnips, and two onions, into each of which two cloves have been inserted ; add one good tablespoonful of salt, and let the whole boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour. During this time, an old hen or a partridge should be partially roasted, and then put into the stock; this should continue to boil during five hours without stopping, care being taken that the stock-pot be kept full. Previous to the soup being served, take off every particle of fat that appears on the surface with a ladle ; take out the vegetables, carefully placing them on a napkin, then remove the fowl or the partridge from the stock : these operations should be so managed as not to disturb the brightness of the broth. Cut the fillets of the fowl or the partridge into slices and place them in the soup tureen, and upon these put some of the vegetables (which have been drained on the napkin) neatly cut with a vegetable-cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter; then pour in the broth, to which add a little brown consomme of veal to give it colour. Let it be sufficiently seasoned with salt, and a pinch of mignonette pepper, then serve. Consomme for Soups in General Take about three pounds of gravy beef, and a similar quantity of knuckles of veal, together with one wild rabbit, and put the whole into a large stock-pot; add two gallons of common stock so as nearly to cover the meat. Put the stock-pot on the fire to boil until the stock is reduced to a light-coloured glaze; then fill it up with one gallon of foundation stock, and after it has boiled and been skimmed, garnish it with two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, two onions, and one head of celery ; add also two blades of mace and six cloves. E