348 THE MODERN COOK Asparagus Salad Boil a bundle of cleaned asparagus until tender in salted water ; when cold, cut the soft part of each stick into inch pieces, or longer if liked. Dress with Vinaigrette composed of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and finely chopped parsley, or mix with Mayonnaise dressing. This salad is equally nice dressed hot, in which case a Vinaigrette dressing is preferable to the Mayonnaise. Asparagus with Carrots Prepare and cook half a bundle of green asparagus the same as directed for Asparagus Fricassee. Scrape or peel thinly twelve to eighteen young carrots; if large, cut into quarters, and cook them in salted water or stock till tender. Mix asparagus and carrots, and blend with Veloute sauce or Bechamel. Season to taste, and cook gently for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Asparagus Fricassee Proceed to clean a bundle of asparagus in the usual way. Cut off the hard portion, and see that the skin of the white part is carefully peeled off, else it will eat tough. Boil them till three parts done, and finish cooking in a well-seasoned white sauce (Bechamel mixed with cream is best). Great care must be taken not to mash up the asparagus whilst cooking. Dish up in the centre of a round dish, garnish with fleurons or fried bread croutons, and serve. French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel Pick and string one pound of French beans, cut them up, and shred each bean into three or four strips; wash them in plenty of water, drain them in a colander, and throw them into a stew-pan of salted boiling water to boil briskly until tender: they must be drained in a colander, then plunged in cold water for five minutes and drained to absorb all moisture. Next put a pint of Bechamel or Supreme sauce into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, a very little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; stir these well together over the fire, and when thoroughly mixed throw in the beans, and toss the whole together over the fire until quite hot ■, then dish up with a border of croutons round, and serve. French Beans with Fine Herbs Boil one pound of beans as directed above. Put one ounce of fresh butter into a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, and two shalots also chopped, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon ; simmer this over the fire until melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the whole together, and dish up with crofltons round. Broad Beans & la Creme Boil one pound of young broad beans in water with some salt; when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stew-pan with