THE MODERN COOK 3IQ the back under the wings; roast the carcase and use it for making the Bigarade sauce (see p. 9). Place the breast in a dish, season with a little mignonette pepper, salt, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of half a lemon, and allow it to steep in this for several hours; about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, place the whole of the seasoning upon the duckling, wrap it up in a sheet of oiled paper, and roast for about twenty minutes; at the end of that time remove the paper and seasoning, and allow the duckling to brown before serving. The fillets must then be taken out, slightly trimmed and scored, and placed in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze or some of the sauce, and allowed barely to simmer over the fire to warm; then dish up in a close circle with a fried crouton of bread between each fillet, pour the Bigarade sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Duckling a la Macedoine Prepare the duckling in the same manner as before: when the fillets are trimmed, place them in a stew-pan with some half-glaze made from the carcases, and when about to send to table, warm them without allowing them to boil, as that would make them tough; dish up in a close circle with a croilton of fried bread between each fillet, fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some bright half-glaze round, and serve. Salmi of Duckling Prepare the breasts of two ducklings and roast them as directed for Duckling a la Bigarade; cut them out, trim and score them, and place them in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze. Next roast the legs a light-brown colour, and when done break them up and put them into a stew-pan with a shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, some mushroom trimmings, a bay leaf, and sprig of thyme; moisten with a glass of claret or Sauterne wine, and leave the whole to boil very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; then strain off the liquor, add half a pint of this extract or essence to an equal proportion of Espagnole sauce, and mix in the ordinary manner; when the sauce has cleared by gentle boiling, and afterwards reduced to its proper consistency, strain it through a tammy into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, warm the fillets carefully, dish them up as in the former recipes, fill the centre with slices of truffles and mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Note.—In addition to the following methods for dressing ducklings for entrees, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treated according to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and side- dishes ; for which see those recipes. Mousse of Duck Remove the flesh from a tender duck, free it from all skin and gristle, then pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Add gradually the whites of three eggs, also about half a gill of cold stock; season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub through