149 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Carp a l’AIlemande Clean one or more carp, cut the fish into slices about two inches thick; place the slices in a basin, and season them with a gill of oil, a gill of tarragon vinegar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of mignonette pepper, and salt, bay-leaf, thyme, and shalot; let the carp steep in this marinade for two or three hours, till within about half an hour of dinner-time; then drain them and dip each piece separately in flour, and then in egg and bread-crumbs mixed with a teaspoonful of Parmesan cheese ; fry the pieces of carp to a golden colour, and dish them up on a napkin, placing the pieces so as to make the fish look whole ; surround the carp with a border of fried parsley and slices of lemon, and send to table with a sauce-boat containing some Butter sauce (see p. 17). Fried Carp a la Venitienne Stew one or more carp in a white wine mirepoix (see p. 57); drain them, and after removing the skin, proceed to mask them with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3) in which has been added some of the liquor the fish have been stewed in. When the sauce has cooled upon the carp, first strew over some bread-crumbs, then egg them over with a paste-brush, and cover them entirely with bread-crumbs mixed with a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese ; then place the carp in a buttered baking-dish or sheet, and half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake : they should be of a light-brown colour; set the fish on an oval dish, sauce round with some good Venetian sauce (see p. 8), garnish with quenelles of carp mixed with some puree of mushrooms, and send to table. Stewed Carp a l’Anglaise For dressing carp in this way see the directions for stewing eels a l’Anglaise (see p. 144). Small Carp, Fried Wash and scale two or more small carp, split them down the back, open them flat, season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour and immediately fry them a golden colour; dish them on a napkin, garnish round with fried parsley, and send to table with either Italian, Anchovy, or Dutch sauce separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred, the carp may be bread-crumbed for frying in the usual way. Tench, being somewhat similar to carp, may be dressed in the various ways in which that fish is prepared for the table with equal success; both these kinds of fish make excellent Matelotes, and, indeed, it is not unusual to prepare Matelotes of carp, tench, and eels all in the same dish. Tench may be sent to table either fried or boiled with Dutch sauce.