317 ENTREES OF RABBIT AND HARE Blanquette of Rabbit a l’Ecarlate Fillet one or more young rabbits, cut off the hind-quarters, and wrap in a large sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Roast them before the fire or in a quick oven for about twenty minutes ; then take them up, and leave them in the paper till they have become cold ; the meat must next be peeled off, cut into small dice, and made up into croquettes (see below). Trim the fillets, and place them in a saute- pan with a little clarified butter, pepper, and salt, and simmer them in the oven or over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allow- ing them to brown; then drain, and cut into sloping slices ; put these into a stew-pan with one-third of their proportion of slices of red tongue; add a pint of Allemande sauce, warm the Blanquette, gently tossing it over the fire, and dish up in the form of a dome; garnish with the croquettes, previously fried, mask the Blanquette with a little of the sauce, and serve. Polpettes of Rabbits a l’ltalienne Roast two small rabbits, and when cold, cut off all the meat and chop it up finely; put this into a saute-pan with a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley and two shalots, also chopped, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, and one pint of reduced Veloute sauce; stir these together over the fire until well mixed, then add the yolks of two eggs, and spread the preparation out in a square, about half an inch thick, upon a dish; when this has become cold, stamp the Poulepetons out with a circular cutter about an inch and a half in diameter ; bread-crumb twice in the usual manner, place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire ; when done, drain, dish up in double circular rows, pour some Brown Italian sauce under, and serve. Rabbit a la Provensale Cut a rabbit into neat joints, and fry them in a sauffi-pan con- taining half a gill of sweet oil and a sliced onion. When sufficiently brown, pour off the oil and add a glass of white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), cover, and let reduce a little; next add four peeled ripe tomatoes cut in quarters, and half a pint of demi-glace or other good brown sauce, season with salt and pepper and savoury herbs, and let simmer gently until the meat is tender. To serve, dress the pieces of rabbit on a crohton of fried bread placed on a hot dish. Reduce the sauce to the desired consistency, skim, and strain it over the dish. Serve hot. Fillets of Hare larded with Poivrade Sauce Prepare and fillet a small hare, and split each fillet into halves these should be trimmed and larded, and placed in a curve at the bottom of a casserole lined with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with some mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of buttered paper upon the fillets, and set them in the oven to simmer for twenty minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor; when nearly