443 THE MODERN COOK again on the fire, and continue stirring for about five minutes ; with- draw again, and gradually mix in the eggs. The ginger, cut into small pieces, must now be added to the mixture, which must then be poured into a buttered mould. Steam for an hour and a half, and when done, dish up the pudding with a custard sauce made with the syrup from the ginger. Pine-Apple Pudding This is made in the same manner as the above, pine-apple being substituted for ginger. Lemon Pudding Ingredients : The juice and grated rind (rubbed on sugar) of 2 lemons, J pt. milk, 2 oz. bruised ratafias, 3 eggs, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon powder, 4 oz. castor sugar, and a very little salt. Mix the above ingredients in a large basin, and whisk all together for about ten minutes. Put a border of puff paste round the edge of a buttered pie-dish, pour the batter into it, strew some shred pistachio kernels on the top, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate oven. When done, shake some sifted sugar over, and serve. Orange Pudding This is made as the above, substituting oranges; double the quantity of oranges may be used, owing to their not containing so much acid as lemons; but the rind of three will suffice for the zest. Bread Pudding, Plain Ingredients : 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 1 oz. butter, £ pt. milk, the rind of x lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, and 2 whites whipped, and a little salt. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, butter, lemon sugar, and salt; then pour over the milk (boiling), cover and leave to steep for about ten minutes; add the eggs, and mix well together; pour the mixture into a buttered mould or pudding basin. Steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish up with some Arrowroot sauce made as follows:—Mix a dessertspoonful of arrow- root with the same quantity of sugar, half the juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and a gill of water, and stir this over the fire until it boils. Apricot Souffle Pudding Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan, stir in two ounces of flour (previously dried in the oven and sifted), and cook without allowing it to colour; then add two ounces of castor sugar and one gill of milk, stir till it boils and work till the paste is quite smooth, then allow to cool. Boil up one gill of apricot syrup with half a vanilla pod. Beat up six yolks of eggs, stir these gradually into the pan containing the flour, etc. (panada), remove the vanilla from the syrup and add it also. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ;