441 SOUFFLES IN GENERAL this will take a little over half an hour. Just before dishing it up, remove the bands of paper, shake some sifted sugar over the top, place it on a souffle dish, and serve immediately in the tin. Note.—Souffles of ground rice, semolina, arrowroot, tapioca, tous- les-mois (a kind of potato flour) should all be prepared as above. Souffles may be flavoured with orange, lemon, cinnamon, orange- flowers, or with any kind of essence or liqueur. Souffle of Rice Ingredients: ij oz. rice, 1 oz. sugar, i£ oz. butter, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 lemon, £ pt. milk, and a little salt. Wash the rice and parboil it in water for five minutes; then put it into a stew-pan with the sugar, milk, and salt, and leave to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty-five minutes, by which time the grains of rice will have become quite soft; the whole should then be well worked with a wooden spoon, adding the butter, and the yolks of eggs, with the rind of the lemon rubbed on sugar, and if the rice be too firm, a little cream also. The whites of eggs, whipped very stiffly, must be then lightly mixed in and poured into the souffle case, baked for about half an hour, and served immediately. Chocolate Souffle This is made by adding one and a half ounces of grated vanilla chocolate to the same kind of preparation directed to be used in making a vanilla souffle (see p. 440). The same number of eggs are also required, but rather less flour should be used, as chocolate contains a certain amount of starch. Coffee Souffle This is made by substituting two tablespoonfuls of coffee essence, dissolved in a little warm water, for the grated chocolate. Ging'er Souffle Prepare an ordinary souffle mixture (see p. 440), and add two ounces of preserved ginger cut up into small dice-like pieces. The vanilla must of course be omitted. Pine=Apple Souffle Follow the directions for making an ordinary souffle (see p. 440), adding three ounces of preserved pine-apple cut up into small pieces; a tablespoonful of the syrup of this should also be added. Souffle of Apricots Remove the stones, and peel six or eight ripe apricots, then put them, together with the kernels, into a stew-pan with three ounces of castor sugar; stir this over the fire, and as soon as the fruit is boiled down to a jam, withdraw it from the fire, and mix it with the usual quantity of preparation for a souffld (see p. 440). The same number