297 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE boudins k la d’Artois ; this, after being spread out to the thickness of rather less than a quarter of an inch, and allowed to become cold and firm, must then be cut up into small strips or bands for the purpose of inserting between the two halves of the quenelles or boudins ; the sides of these should then be securely closed in, and patted smooth all over with the blade of a knife dipped in flour. Then place in a sautd-pan previously spread with butter. Pour some boiling stock round the boudins, and poach them in the usual way; then drain, trim, and egg and bread-crumb them, and place them carefully in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins lightly, glaze, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with some Soubise sauce (see p. 29), pour some half- glaze or essence of fowl under the entree, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Reine Roast a small fowl, remove all the brown skin, cut off all the meat from the bones, and use the latter to make some essence with. Chop the meat finely, and then pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a large tablespoonful of reduced Bechamel sauce ; season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and rub the whole through a very fine wire-sieve; put this purtie into a small stew-pan, and after adding half a gill of cream and a small piece of glaze, stir it over the fire until the whole is mixed, and spread this preparation on a dish, in a square form about two inches in thickness, and leave to get cold. Then cut the square into two oblong pieces, and divide these again, each into about four small oblong slices. Spread each of these over with a thin coating of some very delicate force-meat of fowl; flour them over, dip them separately in beaten egg, bread-crumb them, and set them on a dish in the larder until dinner-time. The boudins must then be placed in the frying-basket, plunged in some hot fat, and fried a light golden colour. Drain, and dish up in a close circle, with some Bechamel or Supreme sauce poured under them, and send to table. Bouchees of Chicken a la Pompadour Prepare about half a pound of very delicate force-meat with some fillets of fowl ; when finished, incorporate two tablespoonfuls of puree of mushrooms made with double cream (see p. 30). Form this into about twelve small oval or circular flat quenelles or boudins, about a third of an inch in thickness; place them in a buttered saute-pan, and slightly poach—that is, let them be only partly cooked; drain, and place them on a dish, covered over with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in the larder until dinner-time. The bouchees should then be dipped in some very light batter, and fried in plenty of hot fat; they must then be dished up in circular order and the centre filled either with stewed peas, asparagus peas, or pur£e, a Macedoine of summer vegetables, Poivrade or Tomato sauce. If garnished with dressed vegetables, some essence of fowl should be poured round the base of the entree.