THE MODERN COOK 402 Plum Cake Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 6 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. dried cherries (slightly chopped), 6 oz. cleaned currants, 6 oz. chopped candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, in equal quantities; 2 oz. ground almonds, 2 eggs, the rind of an orange (rubbed on a piece of sugar and afterwards scraped off), | teaspoonful ground spices, consisting of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, mixed in equal proportions, 1 tablespoonful Cognac brandy, and \ teaspoonful salt. Beat the butter with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy; add gradually the flour, sugar, and eggs, still continuing to beat the mixture the whole of the time. When these have been thoroughly mixed, the cherries, currants, candied peel, ground almonds, brandy, spices, and salt must also be added gradually, and as soon as these ingredients are incorporated with the batter, pour the whole into a tin hoop (previously lined with double bands of buttered paper), and place on a baking-sheet, with two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, to prevent scorching. Moderate heat will be sufficient to bake this cake. When baked, ice over as follows:— First mix four ounces of ground almonds with an equal quantity of fine sifted sugar, a little orange-water, and two yolks of eggs. Form the whole into a soft paste; spread a coating of this all over the surface of the cake (after it has become cold); and when it is hardened by drying, ice over again with the following:— Place three whites of eggs in a basin, add about one pound of icing sugar, free from lumps, and work these well together, with a new wooden spoon, adding occasionally a little lemon juice, until the whole is smooth and shiny. Use this icing to mask the entire surface of the cake with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick; let it become firmly set, by drying in a cool place, and when the icing has become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides of the cake with piping, using up the remainder of the icing thickened with the addition of a little more sugar. When intended for a wedding-cake, the ornaments must be all white, and some blossoms and sprigs—or even wreaths of orange- flowers—should also be introduced. » Scotch Bread Ingredients : £ lb. flour, 6 oz. castor sugar, i lb. butter, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied lemon, orange, and citron peel in equal pro- portions, 1 tablespoonful Cognac brandy, a very little salt, and oz. white comfits. Put the butter in a basin, work it with a wooden spoon until it becomes like thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, eggs, and salt gradually. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, the candied peel (chopped finely), brandy, and grated rind of an orange or lemon must next be added. Pour the mixture into little greased oblong tins. Sprinkle over the tops with the comfits and a little sugar; then bake a light-fawn colour in a very moderate oven.