THE MODERN COOK 238 Tournedos k la Ventadour Cut some small fillets of beef and flatten them slightly with a wetted cutlet-bat. Trim each neatly, season with salt and pepper, and fry in a saute-pan with sweet oil (huile de Provence). Dress the fillets in the form of a crown or border on a hot dish, place a thin slice of beef marrow, previously blanched and baked in the oven, on each fillet, also a thin slice of truffle. Fill the centre with artichoke puree, made hot and suitably seasoned. Sauce over carefully with Colbert sauce, and serve quickly. Minced Beef with Poached Eggs Remove the fat and skin from one pound of roast beef, cut it into thin small slices, and then mince these very finely. Put the mince into a stew-pan with half a pint of brown sauce and a small piece of glaze, stir the whole over the fire until quite hot, dish up in conical form, place three or four poached eggs round the mince, pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve. For those who like plenty of seasoning, some grated nutmeg, lemon peel, and cayenne pepper may be added to the mince. Minced Beef a la Portuguaise Mince one pound of roast or braised beef, and put into a stew-pan. Next put two glasses of port wine into a stew-pan with one chopped shalot, the rind of half an orange cut into small shreds, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; boil these ingredients down to one-third of their original quantity, add a gill of Espagnole sauce, and mix the preparation with the minced beef; dish up in conical form, shake some browned bread-crumbs over it; place a border round the base of six oval scallops of red tongue, and oval croutons fried in butter a golden brown and glazed. Pour some of the sauce reserved for the purpose round the base, and serve. Hashed Beef Plain Slice one pound of cold roast beef up in thin pieces, season with pepper and salt, and shake a little flour over it. Next chop a medium-sized onion, and put it into a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and an equal quantity of mushroom catsup; boil these together for two minutes, and then add half a pint of stock or gravy; boil this down to half, its quantity, put in the beef, set the hash to cook five minutes longer, and then serve with sippets of toasted bread. Hashed Beef and Broiled Bones Slice the beef up as in the previous recipe, and set aside on a plate. Chop half a pound of bones into pieces about two inches long or square, having a little meat left on them; score them all over by making deep incisions across them, season with plenty of pepper and a little salt, and put on a plate. Slice two onions and fry them brown, then add three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce. Shake a tablespoonful of flour over the onions, stir over the fire for a minute, then add half a pint of good stock or gravy and a