EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 379 bake for about ten minutes or less; pass the hot salamander over the top, and serve with strips of very thin dry toast separately on a plate. Macaroni a l’ltalienne Break up half a pound of macaroni in two-inch lengths and put it on to boil in hot water; when done, drain, and as soon as the moisture is absorbed, dish it up in the following manner:—First put half a pint of good Tomato sauce into a stew-pan, and boil up over the fire; then add two pats of fresh butter with a small piece of glaze, and work the whole well together; next strew a layer of the macaroni on the bottom of a dish, then pour some of the sauce over it, and strew some grated Parmesan cheese over this: and so on, repeating the same until the dish is full; sprinkle over some grated cheese, put the macaroni in the oven for five minutes, and then serve while quite hot. Macaroni with Cream Boil half a pound of macaroni, and when done cut it up in two- inch lengths and put it into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a similar quantity of Gruy^re cheese also grated, and a gill of good cream; season with mignonette pepper and salt, and toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed and quite hot; then shake it up for a few minutes to make the cheese spin, so as to give it a fibrous appearance when drawn up with a fork. The macaroni, when dished up, must be garnished with fleurons of pastry, and then served. Macaroni au Gratin Cut up half a pound of macaroni as before, put it into a stew-pan with three ounces of grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruyfere in equal quantities), one ounce of fresh butter, and a gill of good Bechamel sauce; season with mignonette pepper and salt, toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, then pile up in the centre of a border of fried croutons of bread; sprinkle over the top with fine bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions; add a little melted butter over the top of the macaroni, and then put it in the oven to brown lightly: it should then be served quite hot. Spaghetti fi la Creme Blanch and drain half a pound of spaghetti, and cook it in salted water until tender, then cool and drain and cut into short lengths of even size. Heat up half a pint of Bechamel sauce with two table- spoonfuls of Soubise puree, and add half a gill of cream. Put in the macaroni (spaghetti) and heat up gently. Season to taste, and dish up. Timbale of Macaroni a la Florentine Decorate a plain mould with some nouilles paste (see p. 392) mixed with a little sugar; then line the mould with some thin strips of fine short paste (see p. 391), which must be placed exactly in the same manner as when lining a charlotte mould with bread; fill the