THE MODERN COOK 258 adhere to them; dish up in a close circle upon a base of quenelle force-meat, fill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little thin Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan, to be mixed with the glaze by boiling, use this to put round the entree, and serve. Note.—Tendons of veal prepared as above may also be served with every other kind of dressed vegetable garnishes, as well as with any kinds of purees of vegetables—for making which see those recipes. Tendons of Veal a la Villeroi Prepare, braise, and trim the tendons as directed in the fore- going recipe ; put them on a large dish, and mask them over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce; when this has become firmly set, by cooling, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry a light colour in clean hot fat. Dish up in a close circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with some puree of celery (see p. 27), pour some half-glaze or a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce round the entree, and send to table. Kernel of Veal with Artichoke Puree Veal kernels, of which allow eight to ten, are an oblong fatty substance containing a kind of small kidney of great delicacy, lying to the left of the blade-bone of the shoulder; these must be steeped in water for about half an hour, then parboiled for five minutes, soaked in cold water, drained upon a cloth, and put in press between two dishes. The kernels must be trimmed without waste, and placed in a deep, circular fricandeau or braising pan upon thin layers of white veal; then moisten with some white wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and set them on a slow fire to braise very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, bearing in mind that the heat of the stove is to be so regulated as to cause the liquor to be reduced to one-half its original quantity. The kernels must then be removed into a stew-pan, and the half-glaze, when strained and cleared of all fat, poured upon them. Place on a brisk fire, and let them boil quickly till their moisture is reduced to a glaze; roll them gently in this, causing as much of it as possible to adhere to them, to give them a bright appearance. Then dish up in a close circle upon a base of force-meat of veal, with a crofiton of fried bread of the same shape between each kernel; fill the centre with some puree of arti- chokes (see p. 29), pour some half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Veal kernels prepared and dished up in this manner may be garnished with various kinds of dressed vegetables and purees. Kernel of Veal & la Duchesse When the kernels have been braised, pressed, and trimmed, as directed in the first part of the preceding recipe, let them be smoothly masked over with some well-reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3); and after the sauce has been allowed sufficient time to become firm by cooling, egg and bread-crumb the kernels, fry them