338 THE MODERN COOK should be introduced within it through a funnel: it must then be kept in a cold place until wanted for use. Before serving, the cover should be carefully removed without breaking it, and after the top of the pie has been decorated with some bright aspic jelly, it may be put on again and sent to table. Note.—For making pies of turkeys, fowls, pheasants, grouse, par- tridges, etc., follow the above directions. Yorkshire or Christmas Pie First bone a young pheasant, a partridge, a woodcock, two snipes, a grouse. Season and stuff the inside of the game, as directed in the previous recipe, with fillets of fat bacon and tongue and French truffles; each must be carefully sewn up with a needle and string so as to prevent the force-meat from escaping while they are being baked. When these are ready, line a round or oval braising-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, and after the birds have been covered in with layers of bacon and buttered paper, put the lid on, and put them in the oven to bake rather slowly for about one and a half to two hours. Meanwhile prepare some highly-seasoned aspic jelly, of which one-half should be reduced previous to being poured into the pie when baked. Make about two and a half pounds of hot-water paste (see p. 391) and use it to raise a pie sufficiently large to hold the game prepared for the purpose (for making which see the previous recipe). The inside of the pie must first be lined with thin layers of fat bacon, over which spread a coating of well-seasoned force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61); the birds should then be put in, and the cavities filled in with force-meat and truffles. Cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, run a little plain melted butter over the surface, cover the pie in the usual manner, and ornament with a bold design. The pie must now be baked for about two and a half hours in a moderate oven, and when taken out, pour in the reduced aspic, stop the hole up with a small piece of paste, and set aside in the larder to become cold. These very large pies are mostly in request at Christmas time. Devonshire Squab Pie Make three-quarters of a pound of short paste (see p. 391), and set aside till wanted. Then cut about one and a half pounds of griskin of pork in slices, season with a little chopped onion, sage and thyme, pepper and salt, and place on a dish; cut half a pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled for a quarter of an hour) also in slices, and put them with the pork; to these add about four good apples, which, when peeled and the cores taken out, must be cut in thick slices and put on a plate. Next take rather more than half the paste, roll it out, and line an oblong tin mould, about two inches deep, with it; then arrange the pork, bacon, and apples in this, in alternate layers, commencing with the bacon, over this put slices of apples, and then the pork, and so on until the whole is used up.