ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 435 when withdrawn, arrange a close row of halves of peaches (previously simmered in syrup) with a peach kernel on each piece of peach. Pour over some of the syrup, and serve. Note.—For the preparation of flans of apricots, and all kinds of plums, follow the above directions. Neapolitan Cake a la Chantilly Measure out half a pound of flour, four ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of ground almonds, and four ounces of butter. Place these in- gredients on a pastry slab, add three yolks of eggs, the zest of the rind of an orange extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a very little salt; work these well together, and when thoroughly mixed, knead the paste into the form of a rolling-pin and divide it into six or eight equal parts; these must be again kneaded into round balls, rolled out into rounds, placed upon baking-sheets spread with butter, egged and pricked all over with a fork, and baked lightly. When cold, these rounds must then be laid one upon another, with a layer of some kind of preserve spread between each—either apricot, green- gage, strawberry, orange, or raspberry jam may be used. Previous to placing the last piece on the top of the cake, it should be first decorated with meringue paste or sugar icing; the sides must be masked with some kind of bright preserve—such as greengage, apricot, red-currant or apple jelly—and afterwards ornamented with a design, formed either of almond or gum paste, or else with piping, as used for wedding-cakes. The cake should then be placed on a dish, the centre filled with whipped cream, and some strawberries piled on the top; when these are not in season, preserved cherries or angelica may be substituted. Croquante of Oranges Remove the peel and all the white pith from about half-a-dozen sound, and not overripe, oranges; then divide them into small sections, taking care not to break the thin skin. Next put about half a pound of the best lump sugar into a sugar-boiler with sufficient water to cover, and boil it down until it snaps or becomes brittle, which may be easily ascertained thus: take up a little of the sugar, when it begins to boil up in large purling bubbles, on the point of a knife, and instantly dip it into some cold water; if the sugar becomes set, it is sufficiently boiled, and will then easily snap in breaking.1 The sugar should now be withdrawn from the fire. Dip the pieces of orange stuck on the points of small skewers in the sugar, and arrange at the bottom and round the sides of a plain circular mould (lightly rubbed with salad oil). When the whole is complete, and the sugar has become firm by cooling, just before sending to table fill the inside of the croquante with whipped cream seasoned with sugar, a glass of maraschino, and some whole straw- berries, and then turn it out on to a napkin, and serve. 1 When boiling sugar for this purpose, add a pinch of cream of tartar.