THE MODERN COOK 426 Orange Fritters Choose three or four thin-skinned oranges, peel and divide them into sections, remove the pips, and then put them to steep in a basin with a small glass of brandy and some grated rind of orange. Then drain the pieces of oranges from the brandy, dip them into some frying batter (see p. 56), take them out one by one, and fry them in some hot fat; dish up in the usual manner. Peach Fritters Peel and cut six peaches into quarters, and steep them in a basin with a glass of noyau; then fry in batter as before. Note.—Fritters of apricots and large plums are prepared as the above, brandy being used instead of liqueur for steeping. Spanish Puffs Prepare six ounces of petits-choux paste (see p. 407). Make it up into little balls and put it out fn rows on greased paper just before frying them. Fry a golden colour in hot fat, and when done, drain them on paper to absorb any grease : dredge over some castor sugar, and dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin in a conical form. Custard Fritters Ingredients : x pt. milk or cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. finely sifted flour, 1 oz. sugar, a little ground cinnamon and grated lemon-peel. Mix the above ingredients together in a basin, after having first mixed the flour, cinnamon, and lemon in the cream ; strain the whole through a sieve, and then pour the custard into a plain mould spread with butter. Steam the custard in the usual manner, and when done, let it get cold. Then cut up into slices about half an. inch thick, and divide again into squares: put these on a dish, and sprinkle them with a little cinnamon powder and a tablespoonful of brandy. When about to send to table, dip each piece of custard separately into some light frying batter (see p. 56), then drop them into some hot lard, and fry them a light golden colour; when done, drain on a sheet of paper, trim off any rough parts, dredge over with castor sugar, and dish up on a fancy dish paper. Note.—This kind of fritter may be varied by changing the flavouring, and also by adding a little grated chocolate, ground almonds, essence of coffee, or lightly burnt sugar. Princess Fritters This kind of fritter is prepared from the remains of Brioche, Baba, Savarin, Compi&gne cake, or Kouglaiiff; whichever is used should be first cut up into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and then again stamped out into small rounds with a cutter; steep these in enough cream to cover them, and sprinkle over some orange sugar. When about to fry the fritters, dip each separately in light