SAUCES IN GENERAL 11 used for the purpose should be worked with an essence of game (pheasant or partridge), and also finished with a little game glaze. Parisian Sauce Put one pint of Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, adding to it a teaspoonful of essence of truffles, a little game or chicken glaze, according to the purpose for which the sauce may be required, whether for an entree made of game or poultry; add one and a half ounces of crayfish butter in sufficient quantity to colour it of a pinky tint, a little cayenne, and lemon juice. When these ingredients are well mixed in the Allemande, add half-a-dozen small truffles cut in the shape of small olives. Aurora Sauce Put half a pint of Bdchamel sauce into a bain-marie, and, just before the sauce is required for use, mix in one ounce of lobster butter, a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little cayenne. Hollandaise or Dutch Sauce Put the yolks of three eggs, a little glaze, two ounces of fresh butter, a gill of white sauce, some nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt into a small stewpan; stir these quickly with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, or else immerse the bottom of the stew-pan into a deep saute-pan half full of boiling water, which must be kept over a slow fire while the sauce is worked. As soon as the sauce assumes a smooth, compact body take it away from the fire, work it smartly, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. If the sauce should appear to curdle or decompose, add a dessertspoonful of any white sauce nearest at hand, which will set it right again. Dutch sauce may be flavoured with various sorts of vinegar, horse-radish, or lemon juice, according to fancy, or as the case may require. Maitre d’ Hotel Sauce Put half a pint of Bechamel sauce into a stew-pan, make it boil, and incorporate with it three ounces of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pepper, salt, and squeeze of lemon juice. Cold Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Put about three ounces of fresh butter on a plate; knead it together with one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and squeeze of lemon juice. This butter is chiefly used for French beefsteaks, for broiled mackerel, and other sorts of broiled fish, as will be shown hereafter. Princess Sauce Put into a small stew-pan the rind of one lemon, and one teaspoonful of horse-radish, both grated; a little nutmeg, pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar; simmer these on a slow fire for a few