DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL I 2 I vinegar. Lastly, add the chopped parsley then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. Note.—Soles, whole or cut fillets, are served in the same way. Trout a 1’ltalienne Clean and wash three or four small trout. Boil them in salt and water, take off the skins, glaze, and place on a dish; then mask with one pint of Italian sauce in which has been mixed a pat of anchovy butter, a very little nutmeg, and lemon juice. Garnish with ten or twelve quenelles of whiting. Trout a la Gasconne Boil and dish up the trout as directed in the foregoing recipe, and pour round it one pint of sauce a la Gasconne (see p. 17). Garnish with fillets of soles prepared as paupiettes (for which see p. 159), and between each paupiette place a group of crayfish tails that have been tossed in a little glaze, and some pounded lobster coral. Trout a la Chevaliere Boil, skin, and trim one or more trout, and cover them all over with some d’Uxelles or Papillotte sauce: when the sauce, by getting cold, has become set on the trout, roll them in very fine bread- crumbs, and afterwards egg them over and roll them again in the bread-crumbs, in which Parmesan cheese has been mixed in the pro- portion of one-third ; place the trout on a buttered baking-sheet, and, about half an hour before dinner, first sprinkle them over with a gill of melted fresh butter, and then put them in the oven to be baked to a fine light-brown colour. Dish them up and sauce round with the following ragout:—Reduce a glass of dry champagne or Sauterne with half a gill of essence of mushrooms down to one-fourth part, then add half a pint of Allemande sauce, incorporate with it a pat of anchovy butter, a little lobster coral, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice; sauce the trout round, and garnish with a border of small fillets of soles that have been contises, one half with truffles, and the remainder with tongue, and then turned round in the shape of half- moons, and simmered in a little butter, salt, and lemon juice. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. Trout au Gratin Parboil one or two trout sufficiently to remove the skin, and, when trimmed, place them on a buttered sautd-pan; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over them a good teaspoonful of chopped parsley, twice that quantity of chopped mushrooms, and one chopped shalot; add a gill of finished brown sauce, and a glass of sherry. Half an hour more or less before sending to table, according to the size of the fish, put the trout thus prepared into the oven to bake, taking care to baste it every five minutes; when done, put the trout out on a dish, reduce the sauce if necessary, incorporate in it a pat of anchovy butter, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour the sauce over the