DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL ”3 round the turbot; glaze the fish lightly, garnish it with groups of fine large crayfish and quenelles of whiting coloured with some green Ravigote (see p. 6). Serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Vatel Prepare and dress two or three pounds of turbot according to the directions given for turbot a la Parisienne (see p. 111); when done,drain and place it on a dish, reduce the liquor in which it has been cooked, and incorporate it with a gill of Supreme sauce, finished with a little green Ravigote butter (see p. 43); add one dozen oysters, some button - mushrooms, lemon juice, and cayenne. Cover the turbot with this sauce, and garnish it round with six fried smelts trussed with their tails in their mouths, and previously boned and stuffed. Serve as usual some of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Creme au Gratin Boil two pounds (middle cut) of a turbot, drain it on a dish, and while it cools prepare one pint of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3); reduce it and add the yolk of one egg, one ounce of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, a little mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice. With a spoon cut the turbot into small flakes, and put them in the sauce, taking care to waste none of the delicate meaty part of the fins, the cheeks, and glutinous membranes of the fish. Stir the whole lightly together, and pile it neatly in the shape of a dome on the dish; cover it thoroughly and smoothly with four ounces of finely sifted bread-crumbs fried and mixed with a fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese, garnish round with fried croquettes of potatoes, and twenty minutes before sending to table put the turbot in the oven to gratinate; pass the red-hot salamander over it to melt the cheese, and pour round the inner circle of the croquettes some more of the Bechamel sauce made with good rich cream. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Creme au Gratin (another way) This, as well as the foregoing, may be prepared from the remnants ot a previously dressed fish as follows :— Place the flakes of turbot in a stew-pan with half a pint of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), pile it up in the centre of the dish, shake some grated Parmesan cheese on the surface, pour some double cream over this, and having placed the dish over a moderate fire in order to gratinate the fish slightly, at the same time hold a red-hot salamander over it to give the surface a very light-brown colour. Potato croquettes or pastry fleurons should be neatly placed round the edge of the dish, and immediately served. Turbot as Matelote Normande Prepare a small plump turbot, in every respect according to the directions given for dressing a turbot b. la Parisienne (see p. in); when done, drain and place it on a dish ; reduce the liquor, add to it half a pint of Allemande sauce, in which mix a small pat of butter, 1