ENTRIES OF VEAL 257 Noix of Veal a la Toulouse Prepare this as in the foregoing recipe, and when dished up, garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), using Allemande sauce (see p. 3) for the purpose; stick in three ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a large cock’s comb, a truffle, and a decorated quenelle; keep the udder white, glaze the larding, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a garnish of prepared vegetables a la Macedoine (see p. 35). Qrenadins of Veal with Spinach Trim a piece of cushion of veal, and cut into eight or ten fillets, beginning at the thick end; these must be flattened with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, and trimmed somewhat in the shape of fillets of fowl into oval shapes or rounds. They should then be closely larded with fat bacon, placed in neat order in a deep braising or fricandeau pan upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered over with layers of fat bacon; moisten with sufficient good stock just to reach up to the larding, place over a buttered paper, and cover with the lid. The grenadins will require to be braised for about one hour and a quarter, during which time they must be frequently basted; when nearly done, remove the paper and glaze them. Next drain, trim, and dish on a foundation of force-meat, in close order; fill the centre with some purde of spinach, pour some half-glaze round the base of the entree (made with the liquor from the grenadins), and serve. Note.—Grenadins may also be garnished with all kinds of ragouts and vegetable garnishes directed to be served with fricandeaux. Tendons of Veal with Green Peas Tendons of veal consist of that part which lies along the breast end of the ribs, forming an opaque gristly substance, which in the ox becomes bone. To extract these, an incision must be made right down the extreme edge of the breast of veal, without damaging the tendons, which should then be laid quite bare with the knife up to the commencement of the ribs, where they must be divided from them. The bony part, if any remain, must be pared away, and the tendons put to steep in water for an hour or so. They must then be tied up securely with string, and put to boil in the stock-pot for about four hours; or else placed in a stew-pan, with the usual vegetables and seasoning, and covered over with a buttered paper; moisten with enough stock or water to nearly cover, set them to braise on a slow fire for about four hours, and when done, put them in press between two dishes until they are cold. The tendons must then be cut slantwise into rather large pieces, measuring about two inches in diameter, and, when neatly trimmed, should be placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze to warm them in. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the tendons in the oven or on the fire to simmer for ten minutes; then allow them to boil briskly so as to reduce the glaze, in which they must be gently rolled to make it s