19$ THE MODERN COOK to probe it occasionally after the first four hours, in order to ascertain how much longer it may be necessary for it to remain on the fire. When the ham is braised sufficiently tender, and after it has been allowed to remain in its own liquor for an hour or so, drain or remove the rind to within four inches of the knuckle-bone; this portion of the rind must be cut off with a sharp knife so as to form a neat design in the shape of leaves, palms, or scallops, disposed in a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the ham smooth, without remov- ing any more of it than is necessary to give it a neat appearance. Put the ham in the oven on a baking-sheet for ten minutes, first absorbing every particle of grease from the surface with a clean cloth; then glaze it, replace in the oven again for five minutes; glaze once more, and place it on a dish; garnish round with any of the dressed vegetables indicated for Braised Ham, with spinach, etc. (see p. 197). Sauce with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed before reduction with a glass of sherry, and about half a pint of the liquor in which the ham has been braised; place a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Baked Westphalia Ham Trim, and partially bone, a small Westphalia ham, by removing the knuckle; soak it, as usual, in cold water, for forty-eight hours at least, and afterwards boil it in water for half an hour; this part of the operation should be executed in time to allow the ham to soak a day and night previously to its being dressed in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) in a deep baking-dish. Cover the ham with two sheets of oiled paper, and over the whole lay a covering of paste, such as is used to cover venison with, taking care to secure it thoroughly all round so as to prevent the escape of the volatile properties of the essence of the ham, etc., which by condensation, and subsequent absorption, impart to the ham a peculiarly fine flavour. Having prepared the ham in every particular according to the above directions, about five hours before dinner-time let it be put in the oven to bake slowly, observing that the heat of the oven should be moderate, in order that the moisture be not reduced so as to render the ham dry, which would spoil it entirely. When the ham has been in the oven for about four hours, take it out of its braise, trim, and place it on a baking-sheet in the oven to dry the surface; glaze in the usual manner, and after having clarified the mirepoix in which the ham has been baked, add as much as will suffice to give flavour to some Espagnole sauce, reduce it to the proper consistency, and use it to pour round the ham when sent to table. Hams dressed according to the foregoing method may be garnished as follows:—cl la Financiere, il la P^rigueux, it la Parisienne, h. la Macedoine, la Jardiniere, il la Flamande; with stewed peas, asparagus peas, young carrots, spinach, broad beans, etc. Note.—If the ham, dressed as above, be intended to be eaten cold, it should be allowed to remain in its braise until it becomes set in a jelly. It must be then taken out, trimmed, glazed, and dished up with some aspic jelly made with essence of ham.