394 THE MODERN COOK have now two distinct layers of butter; roll this out until it gets to the original size of the paste ; repeat this process six times, includ- ing the first, and allow it to stand about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour between each turn, covered with a damp cloth to prevent a skin forming. The paste is then ready for cutting out as desired. VOL-AU-VENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES Vol=au=vent Cases for Entrees Roll out a pound of puff paste made as in the previous recipe. Five turns must be given to the paste, allowing about seven minutes to elapse between each turn. Then roll out to the required size for the vol-au-vent. Next roll out about four ounces of ordinary short crust to the size of a dinner-plate, lay this on the puff paste, passing the rolling-pin over; next turn over the paste, and then place it on a baking-sheet. Stamp out into an oval shape with a fluted cutter. Remove the trimmings, egg over the surface, but be careful not to smear the edges of the paste, as that would prevent it from rising evenly; then with the point of a small knife, held slanting, make a slight incision all round the surface, within about three-quarters of an inch of the edge, and with the point notch round the extreme edge of the inner circle so as to separate it entirely from the inner edge of the outer circle, or else stamp out the centre with a smaller fluted cutter. The vol-au-vent should now be put into the oven (not too hot, as excess of heat prevents the paste from rising). When it has risen about two inches, and before it has had time to brown, a broad band of double paper, measuring two inches more in circumference than the vol-au-vent, about eight inches high, and fastened in the form of a hoop, must be placed round it to protect the sides from being suddenly caught by the heat, which otherwise would not only scorch it, but also prevent it rising to its full height. It should remain in the oven three-quarters of an hour to be thoroughly baked. When the vol-au-vent is done, remove the paper and carefully scoop out the centre, taking care not to injure the sides of the vol-au-vent. Tourte Cases for Entrees Prepare half a pound of puff paste, and give it four turns in the usual manner; make also four ounces of ordinary short crust, take half of this, knead it into a round ball, roll it out to the size of a dinner-plate, put it on a round baking-sheet, and place a tampoon1 of paper in the centre. The puff paste must then be rolled out into a long strip, and folded lengthwise in three; this must be rolled again in the same direction, just sufficient to make it about four inches wide: the paste should then be slightly wetted over, and folded as before; by this time it should form a band about half an inch thick. The edges of the paste must now be pared away with a small sharp 1 From the French word “ tampon," a kind of small, hard cushion : in the present case, it should consist of a large sheet of rather soft paper, twisted into the form of a circular cushion, about four inches in diameter.