THE MODERN COOK 234 anchovy ditto; and also with the following sauces: Brown Oyster, Mussel, Italian, Piquante, Poor Man’s, Poivrade, Tomato, Provengale, Fine Herbs, etc. ; for making which see under the Special Recipes. Beef=steak a la Frangaise Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef across the grain of the meat into six pieces; flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and trim them to a round or oval form; dip the steaks in a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and place them on the gridiron over a clear fire to broil; when done, glaze on both sides, dish up on two ounces of cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. n), garnish with fried potatoes, and serve with a small piece of broiled suet on each fillet. These potatoes must be cut or turned in the form of olives, and fried in a little clarified butter. Fillets of Beef a la Quirinal Take 8 small fillets of beef (each about 5 oz.), 1 tin foie gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz.. butter, 2 shalots, 2 small carrots (young), 1 glass sherry, 8 champignons, 1 dessert- spoonful meat glaze, 1 gill demi-glace sauce, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes. Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them into round, flat shapes. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire for some minutes; turn them occasionally so that they acquire a nice brown colour on each side. Take them up, and saute eight neat slices of foie gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie gras escallops alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Have ready a rich sauce prepared as follows:— Cut the carrot (red part only), mushrooms (champignons), and one shalot into small dice. Cook the carrot and one shalot in a little stock, mince finely the other shalot and fry in butter, add the wine and the other ingredients (cut in dice), cover and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half the meat glaze. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze the slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole care- fully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes. Fillets of Beef a la Rossini Take about lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, 1 truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, £ gill Lucca oil, 1 shalot, 2 oz. foie gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Trim the fillet, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire; they should be rather underdone