252 THE MODERN COOK some clean hot fat to a light-brown colour; drain and dish up in a circular form, with the pointed ends placed towards the centre, so as to make them fit in with each other. Fill the centre with a group of small tomatoes “au gratin’’ (see p. 344), and place a border of these round the base; pour some Provengale under the carbonades, and serve. Carbonades of Mutton a la Flamande Prepare the loin as before; and when sufficiently cold cut into pieces in the form of pointed scallops, trim them smoothly and neatly, and then place them in a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze made from their own liquor. Half an hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed and glazed as before directed; dish up as in the preceding recipe, fill the centre with some prepared Brussels sprouts (see p. 30), and garnish the base of the entree with a Jardinihre (see p. 167); pour some bright thin Espagnole sauce under the entree, and serve. Note.—Carbonades, prepared and trimmed as directed (on p. 251), may also be served with every sort of vegetable garnish, or puree of vegetables, described in these recipes. Fillets of Mutton with Chevreuil Sauce Remove the fillets from three or four loins of best Southdown mutton, pare off all the sinewy skin that lies beneath the fat; trim these and lard them closely with strips of fat bacon in the usual way. The fillets must then be steeped in a cold marinade (see p. 57) for about forty-eight hours; after which drain them to absorb any unnecessary moisture. Next place the fillets in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, and turn them round in a semicircular form ; moisten with a little mirepoix (see p. 57) or a glass of sherry; cover with a buttered paper and set in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes; they must then be glazed, trimmed neatly round the ends, and dished up in a close circle, overlapping each other; fill the centre with fried potatoes cut in the form of olives; pour some Poivrade sauce under the fillets, and serve. Note.—Fillets of mutton prepared as the foregoing may also be garnished with quenelles of potatoes, with Chevreuil sauce, Victoria Cherry sauce, Tomato, Piquante, Gherkin, or Provengale sauce. Haricot of Mutton a la Nivernaise Cut three pounds of a neck of mutton into untrimmed cutlets, pare off any superfluous fat, put them into a large stew-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire until they become brown; then pour off the greater portion of the fat, and shake in a dessertspoonful of flour, stir the whole over the fire for about five minutes, moisten with a quart of stock, and stir the haricot on the fire till it boils. Meanwhile prepare two carrots and two turnips, cut in the form of small pears, olives, half-moons, or any other fancy shape, and throw these into the haricot; eight to ten small onions