B I COMMON STOCK AND STOCK SAUCES Common Stock, or Foundation Stock for General Purposes When about to prepare for the reception of company it is advis- able to begin, if there be sufficient time, two days beforehand in summer, or three days in winter, by getting ready the foundation stock—an article so essential to all the after preparations, that it may be looked upon as the basis of operations. The meat required for this purpose should be sent in overnight if possible. The quantity to be ordered must, of course, depend upon the extent of the dinner-party and the number of courses. To make 2 gallons of general stock, allow 1 lb. of veal (knuckle part), 2 lbs. shin of beef (or shoulder part), and 3^ lbs. bones (beaf or veal); 2 oz. salt, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, 1 head of celery, 2 cloves stuck in the onions, 12 peppercorns, and 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, bay-leaves, thyme, and parsley. Method.—Cut all the meat away from the bones. Break up the bones, and put both into the stock-pot. Add the salt and water (cold) and let it come gently to the boil. Skim well, and add the vegetables and herbs. When the broth has simmered gently for five hours, strain it through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins to cool, and place them in the larder for the next day’s use. In connection with this subject I will now describe the prepara- tion of the two foundation stock sauces, Espagnole and Veloute, as these, being the basis of the various special sauces used in modern cookery, should, together with the foundation stock, be first attended to. Stock Sauces, Brown and White1 The first thing to be attended to on the following morning is to “mark off” or prepare the stock sauces, viz. the Espagnole or brown sauce, and the Velouffi or white sauce, in the following manner:— Take two large stew-pans, well tinned and thoroughly clean; spread the bottom of each with three ounces fresh butter, over which lay about two ounces of lean ham cut in slices ; and the same amount of veal in 1 Although great care and watchful attention are requisite in every branch of the culinary art, the exercise of these qualities is most essential in the preparation of the foundation stock sauces. If the first process which these undergo be not successfully effected, no subsequent care will remedy the mischief. IS