THE MODERN COOK 4io done, the almonds should be of a light-fawn colour. Turn the cake out carefully, and when cold cut up into bands about an inch and a half wide, then again divide these into diamond-shaped cakes, and dish them up pyramidally. Dried cherries, sultanas, raisins, currants, any kind of candied peel, pistachios, or nuts may be added. The cakes may also be flavoured with any kind of essence or liqueur. Meringues Ingredients : \ lb. sifted castor sugar and 6 whites of egg. Whisk the whites in an egg-bowl until they present the appear- ance of a perfectly white, smooth, substantial froth; then mix in the whole of the sugar very lightly; carefully avoid working the mixture too much, for fear of rendering it soft, as in that case it becomes difficult to mould the meringues; they can never be so gracefully shaped as when the mixture is kept firm. Next cut some stiff foolscap paper into bands about two inches wide; then take a tablespoon, and gather it nearly full of the batter by working it up at the side of the bowl in the form of an egg, and drop this in a slanting direction upon one of the bands of paper, at the same time drawing the edge of the spoon sharply round the outer base of the meringue so as to give to it a smooth and rounded appearance, in order that it may exactly resemble an egg. Proceed in this manner until the band is full, keeping the meringues about an inch apart from each other on the paper; as each band is filled, place them close beside each other on the slab or table, and when all the batter is used up, dredge the meringues over with some sifted sugar, place each band of meringues on a baking-board,1 and put in a very moderate, almost cool oven for about two hours. When done, each meringue must be carefully removed from the paper, the white part of the inside scooped out with a dessertspoon, and then nicely smoothed over; after this, they must be placed again on a baking- sheet, and left to dry in a warm place overnight. When about to send the meringues to table, whip some double cream, season it with a little castor sugar, and either a glass of any kind of liqueur, a few drops of orange-flower water, or some vanilla essence; garnish each meringue with a spoonful of this cream, join two together, dish up in a pyramidal form, and serve. Note.—Meringues may be made of all sizes, and may also be shaped in the form of small bunches of grapes: for this purpose it is necessary to use a forcing bag and pipe to mould the berries. In order to vary the appearance, before shaking the sugar over them some finely shred pistachios or almonds, rough granite sugar, or small currants may be strewn over them. They may also be garnished with preserve, or any kind of ice-cream. 1 These boards must be made of seasoned wood, and should be about an inch thick; their size must of course depend upon the dimensions of the oven, allowing sufficient room for them to be turned round in it.