ENTRIES OF BEEF 239 tablespoonful of mushroom catsup; stir the whole over the fire until reduced to two-thirds of the original quantity, and then pass through a fine strainer; mix this with the sliced beef, make the hash quite hot, dish up with the broiled bones (glazed) round it, and serve. Braised Beef a la Claremont This entree with the varieties mentioned below may be served when any braised beef remains from a previous day’s dinner. The beef must be cut in rather thin round or oval slices, placed in a stew-pan in neat order, and warmed with a gill of good stock; these must then be dished up in a circle, overlapping each other closely ; pour some Claremont sauce (see p. 15) over them, and serve. Note.—Slices of braised beef warmed and dished up, as in the previous recipe, may be greatly varied by being afterwards garnished with macaroni prepared with grated cheese, a little glaze and Tomato sauce, also with all sharp sauces, with purges of vegetables, and with vegetable garnishes. Bubble and Squeak Cut some slices (not too thin) of cold boiled round, or aitchbone, of salt beef; trim them neatly with an equal number of pieces of white fat, and set them aside on a plate. Boil a summer or savoy cabbage, remove the stalk, chop finely, and put into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and one ounce of glaze; season with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry the slices of beef in a frying-pan, commencing with the pieces of fat; stir the cabbage on the fire until quite hot, and then pile it up in the centre of the' dish; place the slices of beef and the pieces of fat round it, pour a little thin brown sauce over the whole, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek with Puree of Green Peas Bone an ox-cheek, and steep it in cold water for two hours; then parboil it in water for five minutes, plunge again in cold water, drain, and trim it, break up the bones, and put them at the bottom of an oval stew-pan, place the cheek upon them, and garnish with a carrot, onion, half a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns; moisten with two quarts of stock or water (if the latter, add some salt); set the ox-cheek to simmer very gently by the side of the fire for about two hours; when done, take it up carefully, and put it in press between two dishes. Half the stock may be used for preparing some brown sauce with, and the remainder boiled down to half-glaze. Cut the ox-cheek up into neat pieces of equal size, shape them either round, square, oblong, or oval; trim them neatly; and place them in a stew-pan with the half-glaze. Ten minutes before sending to table put the ox-cheek, covered with the lid, to simmer gently on the fire until warmed through, and then set them to boil quickly over a brisk fire for three minutes; roll them in their glaze, and dish them up in a circle, closely overlapping each other; fill the centre of the entree with some thick pur^e of green peas (see p. 26), pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve.