SWEETBREADS 263 lettuces, celery, Macedoine of vegetables, Jardiniere, and also with any kind of vegetable puree described in this book. To raise the sweetbreads above the garnish or sauce served with them, it is necessary to place as many foundations as there are sweetbreads in the dish ; these may be made, either by boiling some rice in broth until it becomes quite soft, then working it into a paste one inch thick, or by using veal force-meat or even fried croutons of bread. Sweetbreads a la Monarque These must be blanched, larded, and braised as in the previous recipe; cut a kind of pillar out of a piece of stale bread of angular shape, about three inches high, each side of the angle measuring about two inches ; this should be fried in hot fat to a golden brown, and stuck in a perpendicular position in the centre of the dish with a little paste made of flour and white of egg. The sweetbreads are to be so arranged as to have one end resting up against this croustade, and between each a decorated fillet of fowl should be placed; crown the top with a row of white double cocks’-combs, stick in an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a large cock’s- comb, a mushroom, and a truffle; pour a Financi^re ragout (see p. 44) or a little half-glaze round the entrde, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Conti Prepare the blanched sweetbreads for braising, placing them upon a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of bacon, layers of the same being placed also over the sweetbreads; moisten with a little good white stock, and braise the sweetbreads about twenty minutes. When the sweetbreads are done, drain and glaze lightly, without drying the glaze on; when about to dish up, garnish with a ragout composed of small quenelles of fowl, button-mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, pour some Perigueux sauce under the entree, and serve. Sweetbreads a la St. Cloud These should be blanched and pressed in the usual way, and studded over in neat circular order with pieces of black truffle or red tongue cut out in the form of large hob-nails; make twelve openings with a blunt wooden skewer in each sweetbread, and introduce in these the nail-like pieces of tongue perpendicularly. Braise them according to the preceding directions, and when done, dish up with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43); slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Parisienne After the sweetbreads have been blanched and pressed, lard in the following manner: one with shreds of very black truffles, another with shreds of the tip of a red tongue; braise between layers of fat bacon, and moisten with a wine mirepoix (see p. 57). When done, dish up against a triangular croustade garnished with a well-arranged Parisian ragout (see p. 46); stick an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a double comb, a large truffle, and a decorated